                         Sed nos nec sanguis, nec tantum vulnera nostri
                         Afficere senis, quantum gestata per urbem
                         Ora ducis, quæ transfixo deformia pilo
                         Vidimus.]

On the whole, the Author is disposed to express his suspicion that the entire story of the
tripartite league is the creature only of invention, originating in some inexplicable mistake,
or fabricated for the purpose of exciting feelings of contempt or hostility against the rebels.

       *       *       *       *       *

In examining the various accounts of the battle of Shrewsbury with a view of putting together
ascertained facts in right order, and distinguishing between certainty,--strong probability,--mere
surmise,--improbabilities,--and utter mistakes, we shall find it far more easy to point out
the errors of others, than to adopt one general view which shall not in its turn be open to
objections. Still, in any important course of events, it seems to be a dereliction of duty
in an author to shrink from offering the most probable outline of facts which the careful comparison
of different statements, and a patient weighing of opposite authorities, suggest. Before, however,
we enter upon that task, it will be necessary to clear the way by examining some other questions
of doubt and difficulty.

To Mr. Hume's inaccuracies, arising from the want of patient       (p. 158) labour in searching
for truth at the fountain-head, we have been led to refer above. His readiness to rest satisfied
with whatever first offered itself, provided it suited his present purpose, without either
scrutinizing its internal evidence, or verifying it by reference to earlier and better authority,
is forced upon our notice in his account of the battle of Shrewsbury. Just one half of the
entire space which he spares to record the whole affair, he devotes to a minute detail of the
manifesto which Hotspur is said to have sent to the King on the night before the battle, in
the name of his father, his uncle, and himself. This document, at least in the terms quoted
by Mr. Hume, is proved as well by its own internal self-contradictions, as by historical facts,
to be a forgery of a much later date.

The first charge which the manifesto is made to bring against Henry is, that, after his landing
at Ravenspurg, he swore on the Gospel that he only sought his own rightful inheritance, that
he would never disturb Richard in his possession of the throne, and that never would he aim
at being King. And yet another item charges him with having sworn on the same day, and at the
same place, and on the same Gospel, an oath (the very terms of which imply that he was to be
King) that he never would exact tenths or fifteenths without consent of the three estates,
except in cases of extreme emergence. The Earl of March was himself then a boy, and was in
close custody in Henry's castle of Windsor. The manifesto, as Hume quotes it, is evidently
full of historical blunders; its author had followed those historians who had confounded Edmund
Mortimer with the Earl of March; and yet Mr. Hume adopts it on the authority of Hall, and gives
it so prominent a place in his work.

But even as the manifesto is found in its original form in Hardyng, (though the blunders copied
by Hume from Hall[153] do not appear there in all their extravagance and absurdity,) something
attaches to it exceedingly suspicious as to its character and circumstances. Independently
of the internal evidence of the document itself, which will repay a careful scrutiny, the very
fact of Hardyng having withheld even the most distant allusion to such a manifesto in the copy
of his work which he presented to Henry VI, the grandson of   (p. 160) the King whose character
the manifesto was designed to blast, at a time so much nearer the event, when the reality or
the falsehood of his statement might have been more easily ascertained, contrasts very strikingly
with the forced and unnatural manner in which, many years after, he abruptly thrusts the manifesto
in Latin prose into the midst of his English poem. He then[154] desired to please Edward IV,
to whom any adverse reflection on Bolinbroke would be acceptable.

                   [Footnote 153: Hall says, "Because no chronicle
                   save one makes mention what was the cause and
                   occasion of this bloody battle, in the which on
                   both parts were more than forty thousand men
                   assembled, I word for word, according to my copy,
                   do here rehearse." He then gives the heads of the
                   manifesto, from which Hume has drawn his account.]

                   [Footnote 154: The fact is, that Hardyng's
                   character is assailable, especially on the point of
                   forging documents. "Several writers have considered
                   Hardyng a most dexterous and notable forger, who
                   manufactured the deed for which he sought
                   reward."[154-a] The first manuscript, the Lansdown,
                   containing no allusion to this said manifesto,
                   comes down to 1436. The Harleian copy, which
                   contains it, comes down to the flight of Henry VI.
                   for Scotland. In the Lansdown copy not one word is
                   said about the oath sworn on Bolinbroke's landing,
                   nor about the manifesto.]

                       [Footnote 154-a: See Sir H. Ellis's Introduction to
                       his edition of Hardyng.]

The document, however, itself savours strongly of forgery. In the first place, it purports
to be signed and sealed by Henry Percy, Earl of Northumberland, (though the Earl at that time
was in Northumberland,) Henry Percy, his first-born son, and Thomas Earl of Worcester, styling
themselves Procurators and Protectors of the kingdom. Should this apparent contradiction be
thought to be reconciled with the truth by what Hardyng mentions, that the document was made
by good advice   (p. 161) of the Archbishop of York, and divers other holy men and lords; it
must be answered that it could not have been drawn up for the purpose of being used whenever
an opportunity might offer, for, in the name of the three, it challenges the King, and declares
that they will prove the allegations "on this day," "on this instant day," twice repeated.
Evidently the writer of the document had his mind upon the fatal day of Shrewsbury.

Again, one of their principal charges seems to have emanated from a person totally ignorant
of some facts which must have been known to the Percies, and which are established by documents
still in our hands. The words of the clause to which we refer run thus: "We aver and intend
to prove, that whereas Edmund Mortimer, brother of the Earl of March, was taken by Owyn Glyndowr
in mortal battle, in the open field, and has UP TO THIS TIME[155] been cruelly kept in prison
and bands of iron, in your cause, you have publicly declared him to have been guilefully taken,
[ex dolo,--willingly, as Hall quotes it, to yield himself prisoner to the said Owyn,] and you
would not suffer him to be ransomed, neither by his own means nor by us his relatives and friends.
We have, therefore, negociated with Owyn, as well for his ransom from our own proper goods,
as also for peace between you and Owyn. Wherefore have you regarded us as traitors, and moreover
(p. 162) have craftily and secretly planned and imagined our death and utter destruction."

                   [Footnote 155: Adhuc.]

This clause of the manifesto declares the King to have publicly proclaimed that Edmund Mortimer,
who was taken in pitched battle, had fraudulently given himself up to Owyn. The King's own
letter to the council[156] is totally irreconcileable with his making such a declaration. He
announces to them the news which he had just received of Mortimer's capture, as a calamity
which had made him resolve to proceed in person against the rebels. "Tidings have reached us
from Wales, that the rebels have taken our very dear and much beloved Edmund Mortimer." Again,
the clause avers that the King had suffered the same person, Edmund Mortimer, to be kept cruelly
in prison and iron chains up to that time, and would not suffer him to be ransomed. In contradiction
to this charge, we are assured by the early chroniclers[157] that Owyn treated Mortimer with
all the humanity and respect in his power; and that because he possessed not the means of paying
a ransom, he had, as early as St. Andrew's day, (30th of November 1402, less than six months
after his capture, and nearly eight months before the alleged delivery of the manifesto,) been
married to the daughter of Owyn with great solemnity; and, "thus   (p. 163) turning wholly
to the Welsh people, he pledged himself thereafter to fight for them to the utmost of his power
against the English."

                   [Footnote 156: Acts of Council, vol. i. p. 185.]

                   [Footnote 157: Monk of Evesham and Sloane,
                   1776.--In the passage relating to Mortimer's
                   marriage in Walsingham's history, the word "obiit"
                   is evidently an interpolation by mistake. It does
                   not occur in the corresponding passage in his
                   Ypodig. Neust.]

Another expression in this clause, incompatible with the truth, but quite consistent with the
mistakes which from very early times prevailed as to the circumstances preceding the battle
of Shrewsbury, charges the King with having pronounced the three Percies to be traitors, and
with having secretly planned and imagined their ruin and death; and this is said to have been
signed and sealed by Northumberland, then remaining in the north. Whereas the truth, established
beyond controversy, though little known, is, that, up to the very day when the King announced
to the council Hotspur's rebellion,--barely four days before the battle,--he had entertained
no idea of their disloyalty. Even in his last preceding despatch he informed the council that
he was on his way "to afford aid and comfort to his very dear and faithful cousins, the Earl
of Northumberland and his son Henry, and to join them in their expedition against the Scots."[158]

                   [Footnote 158: Acts of Council, vol. i. p. 207.]

These considerations, among others, throw so many and such weighty suspicions on the manifesto,
that it can scarcely be regarded as deserving of credit. Nor must the Author here disguise
his conviction, that the whole is a forgery, guiltily made for the purpose of blackening the
memory of Henry IV, and of casting odium on the     (p. 164) dynasty of the house of Lancaster.

Another important mistake into which tradition seems to have betrayed some very pains-taking
persons is that which charges Owyn Glyndowr with a breach of faith, and a selfish conduct,
on the occasion of the battle of Shrewsbury, utterly unworthy of any man of the slightest pretensions
to integrity and honour. He is said by Leland to have promised Percy to be present at that
struggle: he is reported by Pennant to have remained, as if spell-bound, with twelve thousand
men at Oswestry. The History of Shrewsbury tells us of the still existing remains of an oak
at Shelton, into the top-most branches of which he climbed to see the turn of the battle, resolving
to proceed or retire as that should be; having come with his forces to that spot time enough
to join the conflict. The question involving Owyn Glyndowr's good faith and valour, or zeal
and activity, is one of much interest, and deserves to be patiently investigated; whilst an
attentive examination of authentic documents, and a careful comparison of dates, are essential
to the establishment of the truth. The result of the inquiry may be new, and yet not on that
account the less to be relied upon.

That Owyn gladly promised to co-operate with the Percies, there is every reason to regard as
time; that he undertook to be with them at Shrewsbury on that day of battle cannot, it should
seem, be true. Probably he never heard of any expectation of such an engagement,  (p. 165)
and the first news which reached him relating to it may have been tidings of Percy's death,
and the discomfiture of his troops. The Welsh historians unsparingly charge him with having
deceived his northern friends on that day: and some assert that he remained at Oswestry, only
seventeen miles off; others that he came to the very banks of the Severn, and tarried there
in safety, consulting only his own interest, whilst a vigorous effort on his part might have
turned the victory that day against the King. This is, perhaps, within the verge of possibility;
but is in the highest degree improbable. That the reports have originated in an entire ignorance
of Owyn's probable position at the time, and of the sudden, unforeseen, and unexpected character
of the struggle to which Bolinbroke's instantaneous decision forced the Percies, will evidently
appear, if, instead of relying on vague tradition, we follow in search of the reality where
facts only, or fair inferences from ascertained facts, may conduct us.

It appears, then, to be satisfactorily demonstrable by original documents, interpreted independently
of preconceived theory, that, four days only before King Henry's proclamation against the Percies
was issued at Burton upon Trent, Owyn Glyndowr was in the extreme divisions of Caermarthenshire,
most actively and anxiously engaged in reducing the English castles which still held out against
him, and by no means free from formidable antagonists in the field, being      (p. 166) fully
occupied at that juncture, and likely to be detained there for some time. It must be also remembered
that the King published his proclamation as soon as ever he had himself heard of Hotspur's
movements from the north, and that even his knowledge of the hostile intentions of the Percies
preceded the very battle itself only by the brief space of five days. This circumstance has
never (it is presumed) been noticed by any of our historians; and the examination of the whole
question involves so new and important a view of the affairs of the Principality at that period,
and bears so immediately on the charge made against the great rebel chieftain for dastardly
cowardice or gross breach of faith, that it seems to claim in these volumes a fuller and more
minute investigation than might otherwise have been desirable or generally interesting. The
documents furnishing the facts on which we ground our opinion, are chiefly original letters
preserved in the British Museum, and made accessible to the general reader by having been published
by Sir Henry Ellis.[159] That excellent Editor, however, has unquestionably referred them to
an earlier date than can be truly assigned to them.[160] Independently of the material fact
which they are intended to establish, they carry with them much intrinsic interest of their
own; and although the detail of the    (p. 167) evidence in the body of the work might seem
to impede unnecessarily the progress of the narrative, the dissertation in its detached form
is recommended to the reader's careful perusal. Should he close his examination of those documents
under the same impression which the Author confesses they have made on himself, he will acquiesce
in the conclusion above stated, and consider this position as admitting no reasonable doubt,--That,
a few days only before the fatal battle of Shrewsbury, Owyn Glyndowr was in the very extremity
of South Wales, engaged in attempts to reduce the enemy's garrisons, and crush his power in
those quarters; with a prospect also before him of much similar employment in a service of
great danger to himself. And when we recollect that probably Henry Percy as little expected
the King to meet him at Shrewsbury, as the King a week before had thought to find him or his
father in any other part of the kingdom than in Northumberland, whither he was himself on his
march to join them; when we recollect the nature and extent of the country which lies between
Pembrokeshire and Salop; and reflect also on the undisciplined state of Owyn's "eight thousand
and eight score spears, such as they were;" instead of being surprised at his absence from
Shrewsbury on the 21st of July, and charging him with having deserted his friends and sworn
allies on that sad field, we are driven to believe that his presence there would have savoured
more of the marvellous than many of his  (p. 168) most celebrated achievements. The simple
truth breaks the spell of the poet's picture, and forces us to unveil its fallacy, though it
has been pronounced by the historian of Shrewsbury to "form one of the brightest ornaments
of the pages of Marmion." To whatever cause we ascribe the decline of Owyn's power, we cannot
trace its origin to a judicial visitation as the consequence of his failure in that hour of
need. The poet's imagination, creative of poetical justice, wrought upon the tale as it was
told; but that tale was not built on truth. The lines, however, deserve to have been the vehicle
of a less ill-founded tradition.

                   [Footnote 159: Original Letters, Second Series.]

                   [Footnote 160: Those documents, with the Author's
                   remarks and reasonings upon them, will be found in
                   the Appendix.]

  "E'en from the day when chained by fate,
  By wizard's dream or potent spell,
  Lingering from sad Salopia's field,
  Reft of his aid, the Percy fell;--
  E'en from that day misfortune still,
  As if for violated faith,
  Pursued him with unwearied step,
  Vindictive still for Hotspur's death."[161]

                   [Footnote 161: Quoted by Scott in his Notes on
                   Marmion from a poem by the Rev. G. Warrington,
                   called "The Spirit's Blasted Tree."]

Those who feel an interest in tracing the localities of this battle with a greater minuteness
of detail in its circumstances than is requisite for the purpose of these Memoirs, will do
well to consult the "Historian of Shrewsbury." The following is offered as the probable outline
of the circumstances of the engagement, together  (p. 169) with those which preceded and followed
it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Earl of Northumberland and his son Hotspur were engaged in collecting and organizing troops
in the north, for the professed purpose of invading Scotland as soon as the King should join
them with his forces. Taking from these troops "eight score horse," Hotspur[162] marched southward
from Berwick at their head, and came through     (p. 170) Lancashire and Cheshire, spreading
his rebellious principles on every side, and adding to his army, especially from among the
gentry. He proclaimed everywhere that their favourite Richard, though deposed by the tyranny
of Bolinbroke, was still alive; and many gathered round his standard, resolved to avenge the
wrongs of their liege lord. The King, with a considerable force, the amount of which is not
precisely known, was on his march towards the north, with the intention of joining the forces
raised by the Percies, and of advancing with them into Scotland, and, "that expedition well
ended," of returning to quell the rebels in Wales. He was at Burton on Trent when news was
brought to him of Hotspur's proceedings, which decided him[163] instantly to grapple with this
unlooked-for rebellion. Hotspur was believed to be on his road to join Glyndowr, and the King
resolved to intercept him.

                   [Footnote 162: Hardyng represents the variance
                   between Henry IV. and the Percies to have
                   originated in three causes:--in their own refusal
                   to give up certain prisoners of rank who had been
                   taken at the battle of Homildon; in the King's
                   refusal to let Sir Edmund Mortimer pay a ransom;
                   and in the displeasure which the King had felt in
                   consequence of an interview between Hotspur and
                   Glyndowr, which had excited his suspicions. A
                   commission was issued on the 14th March 1403, at
                   the instance of the Earl of Westmoreland, to
                   inquire about the prisoners taken at Homildon or
                   "Humbledon."--Rym. Foe The Pell Rolls acquaint
                   us with the great importance attached by Henry and
                   the nation to this victory, by recording the
                   pension assigned to the first bringer of the
                   welcome news: "To Nicholas Merbury 40l. yearly
                   for other good services, as also because the same
                   Nicholas was the first person who reported for a
                   certainty to the said lord the King the good,
                   agreeable, and acceptable news of the success of
                   the late expedition at Homeldon, near Wollor, in
                   Northumberland, by Henry, late Earl of
                   Northumberland. Four earls, many barons and
                   bannerets, with a great multitude of knights and
                   esquires, as well Scotch as French, were taken; and
                   also a great multitude slain, and drowned in the
                   river Tweed." This act of gratitude was somewhat
                   late, if the entry in the Roll records the first
                   payment. It is dated Nov. 3, 1405. At the date of
                   this payment Percy is called the late Earl,
                   because he had forfeited his title.]

                   [Footnote 163: Walsingham records that the Earl of
                   Dunbar, urging Henry to strike an immediate blow,
                   quoted Lucan. He probably uttered the
                   sentiment,--the quotation being supplied by the
                   chronicler:

                         "Tolle moras; nocuit semper differre paratis,
                         Dum trepidant nullo firmatæ robore partes."]

So far from inferring, as some authors have done, from the smallness of the numbers on either
side, that the country considered it more a personal quarrel between two great families than
as a national concern, we might rather feel surprise at the magnitude of the body of men  (p.
171) which met in the field of Shrewsbury.[164] It must be remembered that the King did not
"go down" from the seat of government with 14,000 men; but that the army with which he hastened
to crush the rising rebellion consisted only of the troops at the head of whom he was marching
towards the north, of the body then under the Prince of Wales on the borders, and of those
who could be gathered together on the exigence of the moment by the royal proclamation. It
must be borne also in mind that (according to all probability) barely four days elapsed between
the first intimation which reached the King's ears of the rebellion of the Percies, and the
desperate conflict which crushed them. As we have already seen, the King, only on the 10th
of July, (scarcely eleven days before that decisive struggle,) believed himself to be on his
road northward to join "his beloved and loyal" Northumberland and Hotspur against the Scots.

                   [Footnote 164: Mr. Pennant, in his interesting
                   account of Owyn Glyndowr's life, (though he appears
                   to have been very diligent in collecting
                   traditionary materials for the work,) represents
                   King Henry to have "made an expeditious march to
                   Burton on Trent, on his way against the northern
                   rebels," the Percies; when, on hearing of
                   Hotspur having come southward, he turned to meet
                   him.]

The Prince of Wales, who, as we infer, first apprised the King of this rising peril, was on
the Welsh borders, near Shrewsbury; and he formed a junction with his father,--but where, and
on what day, is not known. Very probably the first intimation that Henry of Monmouth himself
(p. 172) had of the hostile designs of the Percies, was the sudden departure of the Earl of
Worcester, his guardian, who unexpectedly left the Prince's retinue, and, taking his own dependents
with him, joined Hotspur.

At all events, delay would have added every hour to the imminent peril of the royal cause,
and probably Hotspur's impetuosity seconded the King's manifest policy of hastening an immediate
engagement; and thus the "sorry battle of Shrewsbury" was fought by the united forces of the
King and the Prince on the one side, and the forces of Hotspur and his uncle the Earl of Worcester
on the other, unassisted by Glyndowr.

That the opposed parties engaged in "Heyteley Field,"[165] near that town, is placed beyond
question. With regard to their relative position immediately before the battle, there is no
inconsiderable doubt. Some say that the King's army reached the town and took possession of
the castle on the Friday, only three hours before Hotspur arrived: others, following Walsingham,
represent Hotspur as having arrived first,   (p. 173) and being in the very act of assaulting
the town, when the sudden, unexpected appearance of the royal banner advancing made him desist
from that attempt, and face the King's forces. Be this as it may, on Saturday the 21st of July,
the two hostile armies were drawn up in array against each other in Hateley Field, ready to
rush to the struggle on which the fate of England was destined much to depend. Whether any
manifesto were sent from Hotspur, or not, it is certain that the King made an effort to prevent
the desperate conflict, and the unnecessary shedding of so much Christian blood. He despatched
the Abbot of Shrewsbury and the Clerk of the Privy Seal to Hotspur's lines, with offers of
pardon even then, would they return to their allegiance. Hotspur was much moved by this act
of grace, and sent his uncle, the Earl of Worcester, to negociate. This man has been called
the origin of all the mischief; and he is said so to have addressed the King, and so to have
misinterpreted his mild and considerate conversation, "who condescended, in his desire of reconciliation,
even below the royal dignity," that both parties were incensed the more, and resolved instantly
to try their strength. The onset was made by the archers of Hotspur, whose tremendous volleys
caused dreadful carnage among the King's troops. "They fell," says Walsingham, "as the leaves
fall on the ground after a frosty night at the approach of winter. There   (p. 174) was no
room for the arrows to reach the ground, every one struck a mortal man." The King's bowmen
also did their duty. A rumour, spreading through the host, that the King had fallen, shook
the steadiness and confidence of his partisans, and many took to flight; the royal presence,
however, in every part of the engagement soon rallied his men. Hotspur and Douglas seemed anxious
to fight neither with small nor great, but with the King only;[166] though they mowed down
his ranks, making alleys, as in a field of corn, in their eagerness to reach him. He was, we
are told, unhorsed again and again; but returned to the charge with increased impetuosity.
His standard-bearer was killed at his side, and the standard thrown down. At length the Earl
of Dunbar forced him away from the post which he had taken. Henry of Monmouth, though he was
then no novice in martial deeds, yet had never before been engaged on any pitched-battle field;
and here he did his duty valiantly. He was wounded in the face by an arrow; but, so far from
allowing himself to be removed on that account to a place of safety, he urged his friends to
lead him into the very hottest of the conflict. Elmham records his address: whether they are
the very words he     (p. 175) uttered, or such only as he was likely to have used, they certainly
suit his character: "My lords, far be from me such disgrace, as that, like a poltroon, I should
stain my noviciate in arms by flight. If the Prince flies, who will wait to end the battle?
The next time we hear of Henry of Monmouth is as an agent of mercy. The personal conflict between
him and Hotspur, into the description of which Shakspeare has infused so full a share of his
powers of song, has no more substantial origin than the poet's own imagination. Percy fell
by an unknown hand, and his death decided the contest. The cry, "Henry Percy is dead!" which
the royalists raised, was the signal for utter confusion and flight.[167] The number of the
slain on either side is differently reported. When the two armies met, the King's was superior
in numbers, but Hotspur's far more abounded in gentle blood. The greater part of the gentlemen
of Cheshire fell on that day. On the King's part,[168] except the Earl of Stafford and (p.
176) Sir Walter Blount, few names of note are reckoned among the slain.

                   [Footnote 165: That the battle was fought in
                   Hateley Field is proved by a document containing a
                   grant by patent (10 Hen. IV.) of two acres of land
                   for ever to Richard Huse (Hussey), Esquire, for two
                   chaplains to chant mass for the prosperity of the
                   King during his life, and for his soul afterwards,
                   and for all his progenitors, and for the souls of
                   them who died in that battle and were there
                   interred, and for the souls of all Christians, in a
                   new chapel to be built on the ground. See Sir
                   Harris Nicolas' preface to vol. i. p. 53.]

                   [Footnote 166: The story that Henry adopted the
                   unchivalrous expedient of fighting in disguise,
                   arraying several persons, especially the Earl of
                   Stafford and Sir Walter Blount, in royal armour,
                   seems altogether fabulous.]

                   [Footnote 167: The Scots fled, the Welshmen ran,
                   the traitors were overcome; then neither woods
                   letted, nor hills stopped, the fearful hearts of
                   them that were vanquished.--Hall.]

                   [Footnote 168: Hume says, most unadvisedly, "the
                   persons of greatest distinction who fell on that
                   day were on the King's side."]

The Earl of Worcester, Lord Douglas, and Sir Richard Vernon, fell into the hands of the King;
they were kept prisoners till the next Monday, when Worcester and Vernon were beheaded. The
Earl's head was sent up to London on the 25th (the following Wednesday), by the bearer of the
royal mandate, commanding it to be placed upon London bridge.

Thus ended the "sad and sorry field of Shrewsbury."[169] The battle appeared to be the archetype
of that cruel conflict which in the   (p. 177) middle of the century almost annihilated the
ancient nobility of England. Fabyan says, "it was more to be noted vengeable, for there the
father was slain of the son, and the son of the father."

                   [Footnote 169: The Pell Rolls, so called from the
                   pells, or skins, on rolls of which accounts of the
                   royal receipts and expenditure used to be kept, are
                   preserved both in the Chapter House of Westminster,
                   and also in duplicate at the Exchequer Office in
                   Whitehall. The Author had every facility afforded
                   him of examining them at his leisure; and doubtless
                   these documents contain much valuable information,
                   throwing light as well on the national affairs of
                   the times to which they belong, as on the more
                   private history of monarchs and people. This is
                   evident to every one on inspecting the records of
                   any one year. But at the same time they read a
                   lesson, clear and sound, on the indispensable
                   necessity of constant care, and circumspection, and
                   sifting scrutiny, before reliance be placed on them
                   as evidence conclusive, and beyond appeal. The
                   Author of these Memoirs entered upon an examination
                   of the original documents, fully aware that the
                   date of payment with reference to any fact could
                   never be adduced in evidence that the event took
                   place at the time the entry was made, but only that
                   it had taken place before that time. Thus, a debt
                   due to the Prince, or one in command under him, at
                   the siege of a castle in Wales, or to tradesmen and
                   merchants for supplying the forces with provisions,
                   or to messengers sent with all speed bearing
                   despatches to the castle during the siege, might
                   remain unpaid for several years. He was, however,
                   at the same time under an impression that the sum
                   was recorded on the day of payment; at all events,
                   that payments with reference to any insulated fact
                   could not have been recorded as having been made
                   before that fact had transpired. In both these
                   points, however, he was mistaken. Payments were
                   registered not only long after the day on which
                   they were made, but absolutely before the event
                   had taken place to which they refer, and which
                   could not have been anticipated by any human
                   foresight. Thus, not only is payment recorded as
                   having been made to Hotspur nearly five months
                   after his death, and to the Earl of Worcester,
                   twelve weeks after he was beheaded, for expenses
                   incurred by him in bringing the King's consort from
                   Brittany to England in the January preceding, but
                   absolutely the payment of messengers sent
                   throughout the kingdom to announce Henry Percy's
                   death and the defeat of the rebels near Shrewsbury,
                   and to order all ferries and passages to be watched
                   to prevent the escape of the rebels, is recorded as
                   having been made on the 17th of July 1403, FOUR
                   DAYS BEFORE THE BATTLE TOOK PLACE, and the very day
                   on which the King wrote to his council, informing
                   them of the rebellion, before he could himself
                   possibly have anticipated the place or time of any
                   engagement, much less the successful issue of such
                   a struggle with the rebels. The fact is, these
                   accounts were not kept with the regularity of a
                   modern banking-house; and the entries of what may
                   have been omitted were made at the audits, from
                   rough minutes and account-books. Thus mistakes as
                   to the date of actual payment probably were not
                   rare. The Pell Rolls are useful assistants; they
                   must not be followed implicitly as guides.]

CHAPTER IX.

1403-1404.

No sooner had the King gained the field of Shrewsbury than he took the most prompt measures
to extinguish what remained of the rebellion of the Percies. On the very next day he issued
a commission to the Earl of Westmoreland, William Gascoigne, and others, for levying forces
to act against the Earl of Northumberland. That nobleman, as we have seen, remained in the
north, probably in consequence of a sudden attack of illness, when Hotspur made his ill-fated
descent into the south: but the King had good reason to believe that he was still in arms against
the crown; and although he despatched that commission of array to the Earl of Westmoreland
within only a few hours of the battle, yet    (p. 179) he resolved to march forthwith in person,[170]
and crush the rebellion by one decisive blow. On Monday the 23rd, the Earl of Worcester was
beheaded; and on the same day all his silver vessels, forfeited to the King, were given to
the Prince.[171] On the Tuesday the King must have started for the north; for we find two ordinances
dated at Stafford, a distance of thirty miles from Shrewsbury, on Wednesday the 25th. Whilst
one of these royal mandates savours of severity, the other not only is the message of mercy
and forgiveness, but recommends itself to us from the consideration of the person to whom the
exercise of the royal clemency was intrusted with unlimited discretion. Henry of Monmouth,
perhaps, left Shrewsbury after the battle, and proceeded with his father on his journey northward;
but we conclude Stafford to have been, at all events, the furthest point from the Principality
to which he accompanied him. Whether the measure of mercy originated with the King or the Prince,
certainly both the King believed that his son would gladly execute the commission, and the
Prince felt happy in  (p. 180) being made the royal representative in the exercise of a monarch's
best and holiest prerogative. An ordinance was made by the King at Stafford, investing the
Prince of Wales with full powers to pardon the rebels who were in the company of Henry Percy.
The Prince probably remained in or near Shrewsbury for the discharge of the duties assigned
to him by this commission. The King, having despatched messengers throughout the whole realm
announcing Henry Percy's death and the defeat of the rebels, and commanding all ports to be
watched that none of the vanquished might escape, proceeded northward. On the 4th of August
we find him at Pontefract, from which place he issued an order to the Sheriff[172] of York,
which certainly indicates anything rather than a thirst of vengeance on his enemies. It appears
that many persons, reckless of justice and confident of impunity, had laid violent hands on
the goods of the rebels; and different families had thus been subjected to most grievous spoliation.
The King's ordinance conveys a peremptory order to the Sheriff of Yorkshire to interpose his
authority, and prevent such acts of violence and wrong, even upon the King's enemies. On the
6th, we find him still at Pontefract,   (p. 181) and again on the 14th. Official documents,
without supplying any matter which needs detain us here, account for him through the intervening
days. Walsingham also relates that the King proceeded to York, and summoned the whole county
of Northumberland to appear before him. The Earl, who had started with a strong body a few
days after the battle, either in ignorance of his son's failure, or to meet the King for the
purpose of treating with him for peace, had been resisted by the Earl of Westmoreland, and
compelled to retire to Warkworth. On receiving the King's summons, leaving the commonalty behind,
he approached the royal presence with a small retinue, and, in the humble guise of a suppliant,
besought forgiveness.[173] The King granted him full pardon, on the 11th of August;[174] and
then began his return towards Wales. We find him, from the 14th to the 16th,[175] at Pontefract;
on the 17th, at Doncaster. On the 18th, at Worksop; on the 26th, at   (p. 182) Woodstock; and
on the 8th of September, at Worcester.[176]

                   [Footnote 170: Sir Harris Nicolas, in his very
                   valuable preface to the first volume of the Acts of
                   the Privy Council, has fallen into the most
                   extraordinary mistake of stating that the King,
                   after the battle of Shrewsbury, "remained in or
                   near Wales until November." He was certainly absent
                   through six full weeks on his northern expedition.
                   The same Editor more than once affirms that the
                   battle of Shrewsbury was fought on the 23rd of
                   July.]

                   [Footnote 171: MS. Donat. 4597.]

                   [Footnote 172: Mr. Morritt of Rokeby, in a letter
                   to Sir Walter Scott, (Life of Scott, vol. ii. p.
                   387,) says, "In the time of Henry IV. the High
                   Sheriff of Yorkshire who overthrew Northumberland,
                   and drove him to Scotland after the battle of
                   Shrewsbury, was a Rokeby. Tradition says that this
                   Sheriff was before an adherent of the Percies, and
                   was the identical knight who dissuaded Hotspur from
                   the enterprise, on whose letter the angry warrior
                   comments so freely in Shakspeare."]

                   [Footnote 173: His friends and retainers spread
                   strange reports throughout the north, of the King's
                   death; and, assembling in great force, held the
                   castles of Berwick, Alnwick, and Warkworth against
                   the royal authority. The Earl of Westmoreland,
                   Warden of the West March, therefore requested to be
                   supplied with cannon and other means of assault to
                   reduce these fortresses. The proceedings are given
                   in detail among the Acts of the Privy Council, but
                   do not call for a minute examination here.]

                   [Footnote 174: Walsingham says expressly, it was on
                   the morrow of St. Lawrence, August 11th.]

                   [Footnote 175: On the 15th, he issues a
                   proclamation for an array, to meet him at
                   Worcester, on the 3rd of September at the latest,
                   to proceed against Owyn.]

                   [Footnote 176: It was on his return towards Wales
                   that the military recommended Henry (then much in
                   need of money) to take from the bishops their
                   horses and gold, and send the prelates home on
                   foot. The Archbishop resisted the outrage in a
                   manly speech; and the King prayed a benevolence,
                   which the clergy granted.]

After these acts of grace and pardon to Lord Douglas, Northumberland, and all others who were
joined to Sir Henry Percy, we should not expect to find a charge substantiated of wanton and
brutal cruelty and vengeance on the part of the King against the corpse of that gallant knight.
Such a charge, however, is brought in the most severe terms which language can supply in the
manifesto said to have been made by the Archbishop of York. The fact of Hotspur's exhumation
may be granted, and yet the King's memory may remain free from such a charge.[177] That the
body was buried, and afterwards disinterred and exposed to public view, seems not to admit
of a doubt. As it appears from the Chronicle of London, "Persons reported that Percy was yet
alive. He was therefore taken up out of the grave, and bound upright between two mill-stones,
that all men might see that he was dead." "The cause of Hotspur's exhumation is therefore satisfactorily
explained; and,   (p. 183) since it must have been very desirable to remove all doubt as to
the fact of his death, the charge of needless barbarity which has been brought against the
King for disinterring him is without foundation."[178]

                   [Footnote 177: The King, speaking of the death of
                   Hotspur, merely says, "He hath gone the way of all
                   flesh."--Rot. Pat. 4 Hen. IV. p. 2.]

                   [Footnote 178: Sir Harris Nicolas.]

The King now adopted prompt and vigorous measures for the suppression of the rebellion in Wales;
and with that view issued from Worcester an ordinance to several persons by name, to keep their
castles in good repair, well provided also with men and arms. Among others, the Bishop of St.
David's is strictly charged as to his castle of Laghadyn; Nevill de Furnivale, for Goodrich;
Edward Charleton of Powis, for Caerleon and Usk; John Chandos, for Snowdon. On the 10th of
September, the King, still at Worcester, created his son, John of Lancaster, Constable of England.
On the 14th he was at Hereford,[179] when he gave a warrant to William Beauchamp, (to whom
was intrusted the care of Abergavenny and Ewias Harold,) to receive into their allegiance the
Welsh rebels of those lordships. A similar warrant for the rebels of Brecknock, Builth, Haye,
with others, is given, on the 15th, to Sir John Oldcastle, John ap Herry, and John Fairford,
clerk, dated Devennock. The King was then on his route towards Caermarthen,[180] where he stayed
only a short time; and left the Earl of Somerset,  (p. 184) Sir Thomas Beaufort, the Bishop
of Bath, and Lord Grey to keep the castle and town for one month. He shortly afterwards commissioned
Prince Henry to negociate with those persons for their pardon who had been excepted from the
act of oblivion after the battle of Shrewsbury.[181]

                   [Footnote 179: On the 12th, he had issued a
                   proclamation from Hereford for his lieges to meet
                   him there forthwith.]

                   [Footnote 180: Caermarthen suffered very seriously
                   in this war: the Pell Rolls, June 26, 1406, record
                   the payment of a sum to the Burgesses and Goodmen
                   of Caermarthen, in mitigation of the losses they
                   had sustained. On this occasion the King arrived
                   there on the 25th and stayed till the 29th.]

                   [Footnote 181: On the 2nd of October, the King
                   issued a proclamation against Owyn. He seems to
                   have returned through Gloucester to London,
                   immediately after the 17th October; on which day a
                   warrant to Robert Waterton, to arrest Elizabeth
                   wife of the late Henry Percy, is dated Gloucester.

                   On the 8th of October, those four persons whom
                   Henry had left in charge of Caermarthen, implore
                   the council by letter to send the Duke of York, or
                   some other general, to take charge of the King's
                   interests in that district, and to furnish troops
                   to succeed those whom the King had left in trust
                   there, since they had expressed their determined
                   resolution not to remain beyond their month.]

The Welsh, though driven probably from Caermarthenshire[182] in the early part of this autumn,
seem to have carried on their hostilities in other districts with much vigour into the very
middle of winter.[183] On the 8th of November, the King, being then at Cirencester,       (p.
185) issued strict orders for the payment of 100l. to Lord Berkeley, for the succour of the
garrison of Llanpadarn Castle, then straitly besieged by the rebels, and in great danger of
falling into their hands. Lord Berkeley was appointed Admiral of the Fleet to the westward
of the Thames, on the 5th of November 1403.

                   [Footnote 182: On the 1st of December the King
                   acknowledges that the people of Kedwelly had
                   repaired their walls which Owyn had injured; and,
                   on the 19th, the castle of Llanstaffan is given to
                   the custody of David Howell, who undertook to
                   defend it with ten men-at-arms and twenty archers
                   at his own expense, the late captain having been
                   taken by Owyn.]

                   [Footnote 183: On the 26th of October, the King
                   commissions the Earl of Devon, with the Courtenays
                   and others, to press as many men as might be
                   necessary wherever they were to be found, and to
                   proceed forthwith by sea to rescue the castle of
                   Caerdiff, then in great peril.]

On the 22d of November the King issued a proclamation for all rebels to apply for an amnesty
before the Feast of the Epiphany next ensuing, or in default thereof to expect nothing but
the strict course of the law.

It is matter of doubt whether Prince Henry remained in Wales and the borders through the winter,
or returned to his charge in the spring. On the opening of the campaign, however, in 1404,
we find the Welsh chieftain aided by a power which must have made his rebellion far more formidable
than it had hitherto been. A truce between England and France had been concluded just before
the battle of Shrewsbury, but it was of very short duration. Early in the spring, the French
appeared off the shores of Wales in armed vessels, and in conjunction with Glyndowr's forces,
laid siege to several castles along the coast. As early as April 23rd, a sum of 300l. is assigned
by the council for equipping with men and arms, provisions and stores, five vessels   (p. 186)
in the port of Bristol, to relieve the castles of Aberystwith and Cardigan, and to compel the
French to raise the siege of Caernarvon and Harlech.[184] Not only were the castles on the
coast brought into increased jeopardy by this accession of a continental force to Owyn's army
of native rebels, but the inhabitants of the interior, already miserably plundered, and in
numberless cases utterly ruined, by the ravages of the Welsh, now began to give themselves
up to despair. A letter from the King's loyal subjects of Shropshire (which we must refer to
this spring), praying for immediate succour against the confederate forces of Wales and France,
furnishes a most deplorable view of the state of those districts. One-third part of that county,
they say, had been already destroyed, whilst the inhabitants were compelled to leave their
homes, in order to obtain their living in other more favoured parts of the realm. The petition
prays for the protection of men-at-arms and archers, till the Prince[185] himself should come.

                   [Footnote 184: Measures had been taken, in
                   expectation, as it should appear, of these sieges.
                   January 31, 1404, money is paid to the Prince to
                   purchase sixty-six pipes of honey (to make mead),
                   twelve casks of wine, four casks of sour wine,
                   fifty casks of wheat-flour, and eighty quarters of
                   salt, for victualling Caernarvon, Harlech,
                   Llanpadarn, and Cardigan.]

                   [Footnote 185: From this expression, Sir Harris
                   Nicolas is induced to refer the letter (which is
                   dated April 21st) to the year 1403, the Prince
                   having been appointed Lieutenant of Wales on the
                   7th of March preceding. But the mention of the
                   French auxiliaries, who appear not to have
                   visited those parts till the year following, seems
                   to fix the date of this document to the year 1404.]

Soon after the French had carried on these hostile movements,      (p. 187) their King made
a solemn league with Owyn Glyndowr, as an independent sovereign, acknowledging him to be Prince
of Wales. Owyn dated his princedom from the year 1400, and assumed the full title and authority
of a monarch.[186] In this year he commissioned Griffin Young his chancellor, and John Hangmer,
both "his beloved relatives," to treat with the King of France, in consideration of the affection
and sincere love which that illustrious monarch had shown towards him and his subjects.[187]
This commission is dated "Doleguelli, 10th May, A. D. 1404, and in the fourth year of our principality."
In conformity with its tenour, a league was made and sworn to between the ambassadors of "our
illustrious and most dread lord, Owyn, Prince of Wales," and those of the King of France. That
sovereign signed the commission  (p. 188) on the 14th of June; and the league was sealed in
the chancellor's house at Paris, on the 14th July. Its provisions are chiefly directed against
"Henry of Lancaster."

                   [Footnote 186: Owyn does not, however, seem to have
                   exercised the princely prerogative of coining
                   money. Indeed, no Welsh coin of any date is known
                   to have been ever in existence. Thomas Thomas, the
                   Welsh antiquary, says that a coin (or Dr.
                   Stukeley's impression from a coin) of King Bleiddyd
                   is now in the Cotton museum, of a date above nine
                   hundred years before Christ; and that there are
                   others of Monagan about the year one hundred and
                   thirty before the Christian era. A search for them,
                   it is presumed, would be fruitless.]

                   [Footnote 187: The words in italics are in the
                   original "erga nos et subditos nostros."
                   "Illustris et metuendissimi domini nostri Owini
                   Principis Walliarum."--See Rymer.]

The reinforcements which Owyn Glyndowr received from France at the opening of the campaign
in the spring of 1404, enabled him not only to lay siege to the castles in North and West Wales
(as it was called), but to make desperate inroads into England, as well about Shropshire as
in Herefordshire. A letter addressed to the council, June 10th, by the sheriff, the receiver,
and other gentlemen of the latter county, conveys a most desponding representation of the state
of those parts; especially through the district of Archenfield. The bearer of this letter was
the Archdeacon of Hereford, Dean of Windsor, the same person who wrote in such "haste and dread"
to the King the year before. Some parts of this letter deserve to be transcribed, they afford
so lively a description of the frightful calamities of a civil war. "The Welsh rebels in great
numbers have entered Irchonfeld,[188] which is a division of the county of Hereford, and there
they have burnt houses, killed the inhabitants, taken prisoners, and ravaged the country, 
(p. 189) to the great dishonour of our King, and the insupportable damage of the county. We
have often advertised the King that such mischiefs would befal us. We have also now certain
information that within the next eight days the rebels are resolved to make an attack in the
March of Wales, to its utter ruin if speedy succour be not sent. True it is, indeed, that we
have no power to shelter us, except that of Lord Richard of York and his men, far too little
to defend us. We implore you to consider this very perilous and pitiable case, and to pray
our sovereign lord that he will come in his royal person, or send some person with sufficient
power to rescue us from the invasion of the aforesaid rebels; otherwise we shall be utterly
destroyed,--which God forbid! Whoever comes will, as we are led to believe from the report
of our spies, have to engage in battle, or will have a very severe struggle, with the rebels.
And, for God's sake, remember that honourable and valiant man the Lord Abergavenny,[189] who
is on the very point of destruction if he be not rescued. Written in haste at Hereford, June 10th."

                   [Footnote 188: Irchonfeld, now called Archenfield,
                   contains some of the most fertile land in
                   Herefordshire. The inhabitants of Whitchurch, in
                   that district, used to say, before modern luxury
                   had taught us to reckon foreign productions among
                   the necessaries of life, that, excepting salt,
                   their parish supplied whatever was needed for their
                   subsistence in comfort.]

                   [Footnote 189: This was William Beauchamp, to whom
                   the King had given, in the first year of his reign,
                   the castles[189-a] of Pembroke, Tenby, Kilgarran, with
                   others, by patent, 29th November, 1 Henry IV; and
                   who was very closely besieged in the spring of
                   1401, and the summer of 1404, in the castle of
                   Abergavenny.]

                       [Footnote 189-a: MS. Donat. 4596.]

The King had in some measure anticipated this strong memorial,     (p. 190) by signing, on
the very day preceding its date,[190] a commission of array to the sheriffs of Hereford, Worcester,
Gloucester, and Warwick to raise their counties and proceed forthwith to join Richard of York,
and to advance in one body with him for the rescue of William Beauchamp, who was then straitly
besieged in his castle of Abergavenny, and entirely destitute. Though no mention is here made
of the Prince, nor any allusion to him, we have the best evidence that he was personally engaged
during this summer in endeavouring to resist the violence and excesses of the rebels. He was
crippled by want of means; he was forced to pawn his few jewels for the present support of
himself and his retinue; and, when the money raised on them was exhausted, he was compelled
to assure the council in the most direct terms, of his utter inability to remain on his post,
if they did not forthwith provide him with adequate supplies. He seems to have acted both with
vigour and discretion; and the council placed throughout the fullest confidence in his judgment
and integrity.

                   [Footnote 190: At Doncaster, June 9th.]

Three documents at this point of time deserve especial attention. The first is a letter, in
French, from the Prince, addressed to his father, and dated Worcester, 25th of June 1404; the
second is another letter of the same date, written by the Prince to the council; the third
(p. 191) contains the resolutions adopted by them in consequence of this communication.

                   [Footnote 191: The Author leaves this sentence as
                   he wrote it, before he had read the late account of
                   the Field of Agincourt: in that work Henry of
                   Monmouth is in these days, for the first time,
                   accused of hypocrisy; with what justice the reader
                   will decide after reading the charge, and the
                   arguments by which it is now presumed to have been
                   destroyed root and branch. They will be found in
                   the second volume.]

It is very true that letters afford no infallible proof of the writer's real sentiments and
feelings; and it has been said, that expressions of piety or affection in epistles of past
ages are not to be interpreted as indices of the mind and state of him who utters them, any
more than the ordinary close of a note in the present day proves that it came from a humble-minded
and gratefully obliged person. Nevertheless, with these general suggestions before us, and
not impugned, there does seem to pervade the following letter from Henry to his father, somewhat
more than words of course, or matter-of-form expressions, indicative (unless the writer be
a hypocrite,--and hypocrisy has never been laid to Henry of Monmouth's charge[191]) of filial
dutifulness and affection, as well as of a pious and devout trust in Providence. At all events,
it is incumbent on those who forbid our inference in favour of any one from such testimony
to show some act, or to quote some words, or direct us to some implied sentiments in the individual,
whose letters we are    (p. 192) discussing, which would give presumptive evidence against
our decision in his favour. But history has assigned no act, no sentiment, no word of an irreligious
or immoral tendency, to Henry of Monmouth up to the date of this letter. It is not here implied,
or conceded, that history possesses facts of another character subsequently to this date; that
point must be the subject of our further inquiry. When this letter was written, as far as we
can ascertain, fame had not begun to breathe a whisper against the religious and moral character
of the Prince of Wales.

     LETTER FROM PRINCE HENRY TO THE KING HIS FATHER.

     "My very dread and sovereign lord and father.--In the most humble
     and obedient manner that I know or am able, I commend myself to
     your high Majesty, desiring every day your gracious blessing, and
     sincerely thanking your noble Highness for your honourable
     letters, which you were lately pleased to send to me, written at
     your Castle of Pontefract, the 21st day of this present month of
     June [1404]; by which letters I have been made acquainted with
     the great prosperity of your high and royal estate, which is to
     me the greatest joy that can fall to my lot in this world. And I
     have taken the very highest pleasure and entire delight at the
     news, of which you were pleased to certify me; first, of the
     speedy arrival of my very dear cousin, the Earl of Westmoreland,
     and William Clifford, to your Highness; and secondly, the arrival
     of the despatches from your adversary of Scotland, and other
     great men of his kingdom, by virtue of your safe conduct, for the
     good of both the kingdoms, which God of his mercy grant; and that
     you may accomplish all your honourable designs, to his        (p. 193)
     pleasure, to your honour, and the welfare of your kingdom, as I
     have firm reliance in Him who is omnipotent, that you will do. My
     most dread and sovereign lord and father, at your high command in
     other your gracious letters, I have removed with my small
     household to the city of Worcester; and at my request there is
     come to me, with a truly good heart, my very dear and beloved
     cousin, the Earl of Warwick, with a fine retinue at his own very
     heavy expenses; so he well deserves thanks from you for his
     goodwill at all times.

     "And whether the news from the Welsh be true, and what measures I
     purpose to adopt on my arrival, as you desire to be informed, may
     it please your Highness to know that the Welsh have made a
     descent on Herefordshire, burning and destroying also the county,
     with very great force, and with a supply of provisions for
     fifteen days. And true it is that they have burnt and made very
     great havoc on the borders of the said county. But, since my
     arrival in these parts, I have heard of no further damage from
     them, God be thanked! But I am informed for certain that they are
     assembled with all their power, and keep themselves together for
     some important object, and, as it is said, to burn the said
     county. For this reason I have sent for my beloved cousins, my
     Lord Richard of York and the Earl Marshal, and others the most
     considerable persons of the counties of that march, to be with me
     at Worcester on the Tuesday next after the date of this letter,
     to inform me plainly of the government of their districts; and
     how many men they will be able to bring, if need be; and to give
     me their advice as to what may seem to them best to be done for
     the safeguard of the aforesaid parts. And, agreeably to their
     advice, I will do all I possibly can to resist the rebels and
     save the English country, to the utmost of my little power, as
     God shall give me grace: ever trusting in your high Majesty to
     remember my poor estate; and that I have not the means of     (p. 194)
     continuing here without the adoption of some other measures
     for my maintenance; and that the expenses are insupportable to
     me. And may you thus make an ordinance for me with speed, that I
     may do good service, to your honour and the preservation of my
     humble state. My dread sovereign lord and father, may the
     allpowerful Lord of heaven and earth grant you a blessed and long
     life in all good prosperity, to your satisfaction! Written at
     Worcester the 26th day of June.
                               "Your humble and obedient Son, HENRY."

The second letter, written at the same time and place, but addressed to the council, is nearly
word for word identical with this till towards its close, when it gives the following strong
view of the straits and difficulties to which the Prince and the government were then driven
by want of money;[192] and the personal sacrifice which he was himself compelled to make. "We
implore you to make some ordinance for us in time, assured that we have nothing from which
we can support ourselves here, except that we have pawned our little plate and jewels, and
raised money from them, and with that we shall be able to remain only a short time. And after
that, unless you make provision for us, we shall be compelled to depart with disgrace and 
(p. 195) mischief: and the country will be utterly destroyed; which God forbid! And now, since
we have shown you the perils and mischiefs [which must ensue], for God's sake make your ordinance
in time, for the salvation of the honour of our sovereign lord the King our father, of ourselves,
and of the whole realm. And may our Lord protect you, and give you grace to do right!"

                   [Footnote 192: About this time, the King's treasury
                   was in a deplorable state. The minutes of council
                   suggest the payment of 1000 marks in part of the
                   debts of the household, incurred in the time of
                   Atterbury: and the allowance of a sum "for the time
                   past, and to avoid the clamour of the
                   people."--Minutes of Council, vol. ii. p. 37.]

The Prince, finding his difficulties increasing, wrote another letter, dated June 30, to the
council, urging them to prompt measures; and stating in very positive terms the utter impossibility
of his remaining in those parts without supplies. What immediate notice was taken of these
pressing communications, does not appear; that the council enabled him to remain on the borders,
and to protect the country effectually from the rebels, is proved by their proceedings at Lichfield
on the 29th and 30th of the August following. The minutes of those two councils are full of
interest. By the first we are informed that the French, under the French Earl of March, had
equipped a fleet of sixty vessels in the port of Harfleur, full of soldiers, for the purpose
of an immediate invasion of Wales. To meet this rising mischief, the council advise that, since
the King could not soon raise an army proportionate to his high estate and dignity, to proceed
forthwith into Wales, he should remain at Tutbury until the meeting of parliament at Coventry
in the October following; and in the mean time proclamations       (p. 196) should be made,
directing all able-bodied men to be ready to attend the King. Orders were also given to the
officers of the customs in Bristol to supply wine, corn, and other provisions for the soldiers
in the town of Caermarthen, in part payment of their wages. The minutes then record, that,
with regard to the county of Hereford, the sheriff and the other gentlemen had requested the
lords of the council to pray the King that he would be pleased to thank the Prince for the
good protection of the said county since the Nativity of St. John (June 24th), and likewise,
that for the well-being of that county, and also of the county of Gloucester, the Prince might
be assigned to guard the marches of the said counties, and to make inroads into Overwent and
Netherwent, Glamorgan and Morgannoc; and "to carry this into effect, they must provide the
wages of five hundred men-at-arms and two thousand archers for three weeks, and through another
three weeks three hundred men-at-arms and two thousand archers." In another council, probably
at the end of August, the lords recommend that the sum of 3000 marks, due to the King as a
fine from the inhabitants of Cheshire, to be paid in three years, should be assigned to the
Prince for the safeguard of the castle of Denbigh, and towards the expenses of his other castles
in North Wales.[193] They recommend also      (p. 197) that the people of Shropshire be allowed
to make a truce with Wales until the last day of November; and with regard to Herefordshire,
that the Prince remain on its borders to the last day of September, and have the same number
of men-at-arms and archers (or more) as he had had since the 29th of June; that he have on
his own account 1000 marks, and that on the first day of October he be ready with five hundred
men-at-arms and two thousand archers to make an incursion into Wales, and stay there twenty-one
days, for the just chastisement of the rebels. And since for these charges the Prince should
be paid before his departure, measures had been taken to raise money of several persons by
way of loan. Sir John Oldcastle and John ap Herry were to keep the castles of Brecknock and
the Haye till Michaelmas. The King also issued his mandate, 13th November 1404, to the sheriffs
of Worcester, Gloucester, and other counties, to provide a contingent each of twenty men-at-arms
and two hundred archers to join the army of his sons; premising that he had, by the advice
of his parliament, sent his two sons, the Prince and the Lord Thomas, to raise the siege of
Coitey,[194] in which Alexander Berkroller, lord of that place, was then besieged: we may therefore
safely conclude that, through the first part of the winter at least, young Henry was most fully
(p. 198) occupied in the Principality.[195]

                   [Footnote 193: August 26, 1404, a thousand marks
                   were assigned to the Prince for the safekeeping of
                   Denbigh and other castles.--MS. Donat. 4597.]

                   [Footnote 194: The ruins of Coity Castle are still
                   interesting. They are near Bridgend, in
                   Glamorganshire.]

                   [Footnote 195: MS. Donat. 4597.]

Of the Prince's proceedings in consequence of these instructions we hear nothing before the
beginning of the next March: but through the winter[196] (as it should seem) the Welsh chieftain
and his French auxiliaries were most busily engaged, especially towards the northern parts.
Indeed, it may be surmised, not without probable reason, that the King's troops under the Prince
in Monmouthshire, Glamorganshire, and its adjacent districts, and perhaps the forces of Thomas
Beaufort, or the Duke of York, in Caermarthen, had driven Owyn and his partisans northward,
by the vigorous efforts which they made through the autumn and the early part of the winter.
To this season also we are induced to refer those despatches from Conway and Chester,[197]
which give the most alarming accounts to the King of the insolence and activity   (p. 199)
of his enemies, and the imminent peril of his friends, his castles, and the whole country.
One letter speaks of six ships coming out of France "with wyn and spicery full laden." Another
reports that the constable of Harlech had been seized by the Welsh and carried to Owyn Glyndowr;
and that the castle was in great danger of falling into his hands, being garrisoned only by
five Englishmen and about sixteen Welshmen. A third apprises the King that the deputy-constable
of Caernarvon had sent a woman to inform the writer, William Venables, the constable of Chester,
(by word of mouth, because no man dared to come, and no man or woman could carry letters safely,)
of Owyn Glyndowr's purpose, in conjunction with the French, "to assault the town and castle
of Caernarvon with engines, sows,[198] and ladders of very great length;" whilst in the town
and castle there were not more than twenty-eight fighting men,--eleven of the more able of
those who were there at the former siege being dead, some of their wounds, others of the plague.
In the fourth, the constable of Conway informs the same parties that the people of Caernarvonshire
purposed to go into Anglesey to bring out of it all the men and cattle into the mountains,
"lest Englishmen should be refreshed therewith." The    (p. 200) writer adds, "I durst lay
my head that, if there were two hundred men in Caernarvon and two hundred in Conway, from February
until May, the commons of Caernarvonshire would come to peace, and pay their dues as well as
ever. But should there be a delay till the summer, it will not be so lightly (likely), for
then the rebels will be able to lie without (in the open air), as they cannot now do. Also
I have myself heard many of the commons and gentlemen of Merionethshire and Caernarvonshire
swear that all men of the aforesaid shires, except four or five gentlemen and a few vagabonds
(vacaboundis), would fain come to peace, provided Englishmen were left in the country to help
in protecting them from misdoers; especially must they come into the country whilst the weather
is cold." In the fifth letter, we learn that Owyn had agreed with all the men in the castle
of Harlech, except seven, to have deliverance of the castle on an early fixed day for a stated
sum of gold. A letter, dated Oswestry, February 7th, from the Earl of Arundel and Surrey, conveys
the very same sentiments with those of the constable of Conway as to the probability of the
immediate termination of the rebellion, either by peace or victory, should any vigorous measures
be adopted. He was appointed to take charge of Oswestry, with thirty men-at-arms and one hundred
and fifty archers, for eight weeks. He complains that the grand ordinance resolved upon by
the late    (p. 201) parliament at Coventry[199] had not been put into execution; and states
that the rebels were never at any time so high or proud, from an assurance that it, like the
others, would become a dead letter.[200]

                   [Footnote 196: A few days before Christmas, some
                   French effected a landing in the Isle of Wight, and
                   boasted that, with the King's leave or without it,
                   they would keep their Christmas there: but they
                   were routed. The French demanded a tribute in the
                   name of Richard and Isabella.]

                   [Footnote 197: These letters are the tenth,
                   eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth, in
                   Sir Henry Ellis' Second Series. He does not assign
                   them to any date positively. "They were probably
                   written," he says, "about 1404." It is here
                   presumed, that they were not written till the
                   opening of the year 1405. They all bear date
                   between the 7th of January and the 20th of
                   February.]

                   [Footnote 198: The sow was an engine of the nature
                   of the Roman Vinea, which, by protecting the
                   assailants from the missiles of the besieged,
                   enabled them to undermine the wall of a town or
                   castle.]

                   [Footnote 199: The parliament called Indoctum, or
                   Lacklearning. It was in this parliament that the
                   confiscation of the property of the bishops was
                   proposed.]

                   [Footnote 200: At this time Owyn Glyndowr confirms
                   his league with the King of France by deed, dated
                   and signed "in our Castle of Llanpadarn, the 12th
                   of January 1405, and of our principality the
                   sixth."]

The letter from Henry to his father in the preceding June, and the testimony of the gentlemen
of Hereford, who prayed that thanks might be presented to the Prince for his watchful and efficient
protection of their county, inform us that the rebels towards the south marches had been kept
in check since the Prince's arrival; but they were ready to renew their violence at the very
opening of spring. Two letters, one from the King to his council, the other from the Prince
to the King, require to be translated literally, and copied into these pages. The former, which
is now published for the first time in "The Acts of the Privy Council," proves the hearty good-will
entertained by the King towards his son, and the lively paternal interest he took up to that
time in his honourable career. It assures us also of the great importance attached by the King
to the victory then gained over the rebels. The latter, though published by Rymer and Ellis,
and       (p. 202) others, and though often commented upon before, yet appears to throw so
much light upon the character of Prince Henry as a Christian at once and a warrior, especially
in that union of valour and mercy in him to which Hotspur first bore testimony four years before,
that any treatise on the life and character of Henry of Monmouth would be altogether defective
were this letter to be omitted. The King's letter to his council bears date Berkhemstead, March
13, 1405.

     "FROM THE KING.

     "Very dear and faithful! We greet you well. And since we know
     that you are much pleased and rejoiced whenever you can hear good
     news relating to the preservation of our honour and estate, and
     especially of the common good and honour of the whole realm, we
     forward to you for your consolation the copy of a letter sent to
     us by our very dear son, the Prince, touching his government in
     the marches of Wales; by which you will yourselves become
     acquainted with the news for which we return thanks to Almighty
     God. We beg you will convey these tidings to our very dear and
     faithful friends the Mayor and good people of our city of London,
     in order that they may derive consolation from them together with
     us, and praise our Creator for them. May He always have you in
     his holy keeping.--Given under our signet at our Castle of
     Berkhemstead, the 13th day of March."

The following letter, the copy of which the King then forwarded, was written by the Prince
at Hereford, on the 11th of March, at night.

     LETTER FROM PRINCE HENRY TO THE KING HIS FATHER.              (p. 203)

     "My most redoubted and most sovereign lord and father, in the
     most humble manner that in my heart I can devise, I commend
     myself to your royal Majesty, humbly requesting your gracious
     blessing. My most redoubted and most sovereign lord and father, I
     sincerely pray that God will graciously show his miraculous aid
     toward you in all places: praised be He in all his works! For on
     Wednesday, the eleventh day of this present month of March, your
     rebels of the parts of Glamorgan, Morgannoc, Usk, Netherwent, and
     Overwent, were assembled to the number of eight thousand men
     according to their own account; and they went on the said
     Wednesday in the morning, and burnt part of your town of Grosmont
     within your lordship of Monmouth. And I immediately[201] sent off
     my very dear cousin the Lord Talbot, and the small body of my own
     household, and with them joined your faithful and gallant knights
     William Neuport and John Greindre; who were but a very small
     force in all. But very true it is that VICTORY IS NOT IN A
     MULTITUDE OF PEOPLE, BUT IN THE POWER OF GOD; and this was well
     proved there. And there, by the aid of the blessed Trinity, your
     people gained the field, and slew of them by fair account on the
     field, by the time of their return from the pursuit, some say
     eight hundred, and some say a thousand, being questioned on pain
     of death. Nevertheless, whether on such an account it were one or
     the other I would not contend.

     "And, to inform you fully of all that has been done, I send you a
     person worthy of credit in this case, my faithful servant the
     bearer of this letter, who was present at the engagement,     (p. 204)
     and did his duty very satisfactorily, as he does on all occasions.
     And such amends has God ordained you for the burning of four houses
     of your said town. And prisoners there were none taken excepting
     one,[202] who was a great chieftain among them, whom I would have
     sent to you, but he cannot yet ride at his ease.

     "And touching the governance which I purpose to make after this,
     please your Highness to give sure credence to the bearer of this
     letter in whatever he shall lay before your Highness on my part.
     And I pray God that He will preserve you always in joy and
     honour, and grant me shortly to comfort you with other good news.
     Written at Hereford, the said Wednesday, at night.
                                 "Your very humble and obedient son,
     "To the King, my most redoubted                          HENRY.
         and sovereign lord and father."

                   [Footnote 201: All the writers who have copied this
                   letter, from Rymer downwards, have fallen into a
                   ludicrous mistake here. Reading an n instead of a
                   v in the words J'envoia (I sent), they have
                   translated the passage, "within your lordship of
                   Monmouth and Jennoia." Sir Harris Nicolas first
                   supplied the true reading. The mistake led persons
                   well acquainted with Monmouthshire (among others,
                   the Author of these Memoirs,) to make different
                   inquiries as to the lordship of Jennoia: they will
                   now no longer wonder at the unfruitful issue of
                   their search.]

                   [Footnote 202: The author published under the name
                   of Otterbourne says, that Owyn's son was made
                   prisoner at Usk on the 25th of March, and one
                   thousand five hundred of his men were taken or
                   slain; and that, after the Feast of St. Dunstan,
                   his chancellor was taken. There is reason to doubt
                   whether that chronicler has not mistaken the place
                   and time of the battle to which he refers; though
                   it is not impossible that another battle (of which,
                   however, we have no authentic record,) was fought
                   at Usk a fortnight after the rebels were defeated
                   at Grosmont: Grosmont is about twenty miles distant
                   from Usk.]

The true reading of "I sent," instead of "Jennoia," at first might
seem to imply that the Prince was not present in person at the     (p. 205)
battle of Grosmont: and there is no positive evidence in the letter to
show that he was there. The testimony which he bears to the gallant
conduct in that field of his faithful servant, whom he despatched with
his letter, has been thought to sanction a belief, that Henry was an
eyewitness of the engagement. But from this doubt the mind turns with
full satisfaction to the religious sentiments which are interwoven
throughout the epistle, and to Henry's considerate and humane treatment
of his prisoner. He would, no doubt, have felt a satisfaction and pride
in immediately placing a high chieftain of Wales in the hands of the
King, on the very day of battle and victory; but he shrunk from
gratifying his own wishes, when his pleasure involved the pain of a
fellow-creature, though that person was his prisoner.
                        2 HENRY IV. act iv. sc. iv.

Those united qualities of valour and mercy, of courage and kindness of heart, which are so
beautifully ascribed to a modern English warrior, were never blended in any character of which
history speaks in more perfect harmony than in Henry of Monmouth:

      "A furious lion in battle;                                   (p. 206)
  But, duty appeased, in mercy a lamb."

The lesson thus taught him during his early youth in the field of Grosmont, whether by personal
experience of that conflict, or by the representation of his gallant companions in arms, of
what may be effected by courage and discipline against an enemy infinitely superior in numbers,
was probably not forgotten, ten years afterwards, at Agincourt.

1405-1406.

Whilst the Prince was thus exerting himself to the utmost in keeping the Welsh rebels in check,
the King resolved to go once again in person to the Principality with as strong a force as
he could muster; and with this intention he set forward, probably about the end of April. On
the 8th of May he was at Worcester, when he was suddenly informed of the hostile measures of
his enemies in the north. The preface to "The Acts of the Privy Council" gives the following
succinct and clear account of the proceedings:--"The most memorable event in the sixth year
of Henry IV. was the revolt, in May 1405, of the Earl Marshal, Lord Bardolf, and the Earl of
Northumberland, who had been partially restored to the King's confidence after the death of
his son and brother in        (p. 208) 1403.[203] Henry was at that moment at Worcester; and
the earliest notice of the rebellion is contained in a letter from the council to the King,
which, after treating of various matters, concluded by stating that they were then just informed
by his Majesty's son, John of Lancaster, that Lord Bardolf had privately withdrawn himself
to the north; at which they were much astonished, because the King had ordered him to proceed
into Wales. To guard against any ill consequences which might arise from this suspicious circumstance,
the council instantly despatched in the same direction Lord Roos and Sir William Gascoyne,
the Chief Justice, as the individuals in whom the King placed most confidence; and, thinking
that Henry might be in want of money, the council borrowed and sent him one thousand marks.
With his accustomed promptitude and activity, the King lost not a moment in setting off for
the north, to meet the rebellious lords in person; and on the 28th of May he wrote to his council
from Derby, acquainting them with the revolt, and   (p. 209) desiring them to hasten to him
at Pomfret with as many followers as possible."

                   [Footnote 203: A review of this "aged Earl's"
                   behaviour, from the first occasion on which he is
                   introduced to our notice in these Memoirs to the
                   day of his death, supplies only a melancholy
                   succession of acts of broken faith. On the 7th of
                   February 1404, before the assembled estates of the
                   realm, on receiving the King's pardon for the past,
                   he most solemnly swore upon the cross of Canterbury
                   to be true and faithful to his sovereign Henry IV:
                   he "swore also, on the peril of his soul, that he
                   knew of no evil intentions on the part of the Duke
                   of York, or of the Archbishop; and that the King
                   might place full trust and confidence in them as
                   his liege subjects."]

The Editor of the Proceedings of the Privy Council says nothing of Scrope, Archbishop of York,
who had risen in open rebellion against the royal authority; but we cannot pass on without
some notice of him. Early in June, King Henry laid hands on that unfortunate prelate, surrounded
by followers, and armed in a coat of mail; and he commanded Gascoyne, who was with him, to
pass sentence of death upon his prisoner in a summary way. The Chief Justice refused,[204]
with these words: "Neither you, my lord the King, nor any of your lieges acting in your name,
can lawfully, according to the laws of the kingdom, condemn any bishop to death." The King
then ordered one Fulthorp to sentence him to decapitation, who forthwith complied; and the
Archbishop was carried to execution with every mark of disgrace, on Whitmonday, June 8th. Many
legends shortly became current about this warlike prelate, who was one of the most determined
enemies of the House of Lancaster. Of the stories propagated soon after his death, one declares
that in the field of his last earthly struggle the corn was trodden down, and destroyed irremediably,
both by his enemies, who were preparing for his execution, and by his friends and poor neighbours,
who came    (p. 210) to weep and bewail the fate of their beloved chief pastor. The Archbishop,
seeing the destruction which his death was causing, spoke with words of comfort to the multitude,
and promised to intercede with heaven that the evil might be averted. The field, continues
the story, brought forth at the ensuing harvest six-fold above the average crop. The same page
tells that the King was smitten with the leprosy in the face on the very hour of the very day
in which the Archbishop was beheaded. The manuscript adds, that many miracles were shown day
by day by the Lord at the tomb of this prelate, to which people flocked from every side. The
enemies of the King endeavoured to exalt this zealous son of the church into a saint; and to
propagate the belief that the King's disease, which never left him, was a signal and miraculous
visitation of Heaven, avenging the foul murder of so dauntless a martyr.[205]

                   [Footnote 204: Gascoyne does not appear to have
                   been even suspended from his office in consequence
                   of his refusal to sentence the Archbishop; he
                   continued Chief Justice till after the King's
                   death.]

                   [Footnote 205: Sloane, 1776.]

Pope Innocent, in the course of the year, sent a peremptory mandate to the Archbishop of Canterbury
to fulminate the curse of excommunication against all those who had participated in the prelate's
murder: but the Archbishop did not dare to execute the mandate; for both the King and a large
body of the nobility were implicated more or less directly in Scrope's execution, and must
have been involved in the same general sentence. The King, on hearing of the decided countenance
thus     (p. 211) given by the Pope to his rebellious subjects, despatched a messenger to Rome,
conveying the military vest of the Archbishop, and charged him to present it to his Holiness;
delivering at the same time, as his royal master's message, the words of Jacob's sons, "Lo!
this have we found; know now whether it be thy son's coat, or no." A passage in Hardyng seems
to imply that, during the life of Henry IV, the devotions of the people to this warrior bishop
were forbidden; for he records, apparently with approbation, the permission granted by his
son Henry V, to all persons to make their offerings at the shrine of their sainted prelate:

  "He gave then, of good devotion,
   All men to offer to Bishop Scrope express,
   Without letting or any question."

"Before the end of the next month (June),[206] Henry was engaged in besieging the Earl of Northumberland's
castles; and in a letter to the council, dated Warkworth, on the 2nd of July, he informed them
that Prudhoe Castle had immediately surrendered: but that the Castle of Warkworth, being well
garrisoned, refused to obey his summons; the captain having declared as his final answer that
he would defend it for the Earl. The King had therefore ordered his artillery to be brought
against it, which were so ably served, that at the seventh         (p. 212) discharge the besieged
implored his mercy, and the fortress was delivered into his hands on the 1st of July. All the
other castles had imitated the example of Prudhoe, excepting Alnwick, which he was then about
to attack."

                   [Footnote 206: This is extracted from the Preface
                   of Sir Harris Nicolas, p. 56.]

"The exhausted state of the King's pecuniary resources," continues the Preface, "and the distress
endured by the soldiers and others engaged in his service, are forcibly shown by the letters
of the Prince of Wales, the Duke of York, and others. The Duke of York, and his brother Richard,
described their retinues in Wales as being in a state of mutiny for want of their wages; and
the Duke had evidently made every personal sacrifice within his power to satisfy them. He entreated
them to continue there a few weeks longer, authorised them to mortgage his land in Yorkshire,
pledged himself "on his truth, and as he is a true gentleman," not to receive any part of his
revenues until his soldiers were paid, and promised that he would not ask them to continue
longer than the time specified. Every source of income seems to have been anticipated; and
it is scarcely possible to conceive a government in greater distress for money than was Henry
IV's at this point of time. Nothing but the wisdom and indomitable energy for which that monarch
was distinguished could have enabled him to surmount the difficulties of his position; and
the facts detailed in this volume[207] entitle Henry to a high rank among the most distinguished
of European      (p. 213) sovereigns both as a soldier and as a statesman. No sooner had he
suppressed rebellion in one place than it showed itself in another; and, for many years, the
Welsh could barely be kept in check by the presence of the Prince of Wales and a large army.
By France he was constantly annoyed; and, if he was not actually at war with the Scotch, it
was necessary to watch their conduct with great anxiety and suspicion. To add to his embarrassment,
the great mass of his own subjects were tempted to revolt by the distracted condition of the
country, by the existence of the true heir to the throne, and by reports that their former
sovereign was yet alive. Henry's treatment of them was necessarily firm, but conciliatory.
He dared not recruit his exhausted finances by heavy impositions on the people; and the generous
sacrifices made by the peers to avoid so dangerous an expedient had reduced them to poverty."

                   [Footnote 207: The Acts of the Privy Council.]

Such is the clear and able representation given to us of the state of the kingdom at large,
and of the difficulties with which Henry IV. and his supporters had to struggle, whilst Henry
of Monmouth was exerting himself to the very utmost in repressing the rebels in Wales.[208]
His means were, indeed, very limited; he seldom had a "large army"     (p. 214) at his command;
and his measures were lamentably embarrassed by the exhausted state of the treasury. The King
endeavoured from time to time, in some cases successfully, at others with a total failure,
to remedy these evils, and to supply his son with the power of acting in a manner worthy of
himself, and the importance of the enterprise in which he was engaged. On the 31st of May he
despatched a letter to his council from Nottingham, which contains many interesting particulars;
whilst the total inability of his ministers to comply with his directions speaks very strongly
of the trying circumstances in which the Prince was trained. The King begins by reminding the
council that it was by the advice of them and other nobles, and the commons of the realm, that
the defence of Wales was committed to his very dear and beloved son the Prince, as his lieutenant
there; at the time of whose appointment it was agreed, that since he had in his retinue a certain
number of men-at-arms and archers, though for the protection of the realm, yet living at his
expense, he should receive a certain proportion of the subsidy voted at the last parliament.
The King then representing to them the vast mischiefs which would befal the marches, and by
consequence the whole realm, if the rebels were not effectually resisted, strictly charges
and commands his council, with all possible speed to make payment in part of whatever the Prince
was to receive from the King on that account. And though the Prince had under him (p. 215)
the Duke of York living there for the safeguard of the country, nevertheless the King desired
that the money paid for the whole country of Wales should be put wholly and exclusively into
the hands of the Prince himself, to be employed and disbursed at his discretion, with the advice
of his council. The reason for this last order he alleges to be the assurance given to him
that the sums on former occasions paid to others under the Prince for his use had not been
expended properly to the profit of the marches, nor agreeably to the intention of the King
and council. He ends his letter by enjoining them, for the love they bore to him, and the confidence
he placed in them, to pay hearty attention to this subject. Notwithstanding this urgent appeal,
the council reply that the assignments already made, and the payments absolutely indispensable,
together with the failure of the supplies, would not suffer them to meet his wishes. This answer
was written on a Monday, probably the 8th of June. On the 12th we find the King (it may be,
to make some little compensation for this disappointment,) assigning to the Prince, in aid
of his sustentation, the castle and estates of Framlyngham, which had fallen to the crown by
forfeiture from Thomas Mowbray.

                   [Footnote 208: The extraordinary distress of the
                   King from the want of pecuniary means cannot be
                   questioned: though (independently of taxes and
                   subsidies) large sums must have been flowing into
                   the royal treasury, as well from the immense
                   possessions belonging to the Duchy of Lancaster, as
                   from the forfeited estates of the rebels. Still the
                   King's coffers were drained.]

The rapid movements of the King in those days of incessant alarm are quite astonishing. Just
as in the battle of Shrewsbury he impressed the enemy with an idea of his ubiquity throughout
the whole field, (p. 216) so at this time, from day to day, he appears in whatever part of
the kingdom his presence seemed to be most needed. On the 7th of August he was at Pontefract,
whither tidings were brought to him that the French admiral, Hugevyn, had arrived at Milford
to aid the Welsh rebels; and he sent a commission of array to the sheriff of Herefordshire
to meet him. On the 4th of September[209] we find him at Hereford, attended by many nobles
and others, where he issued a warrant to raise money by way of loan, to enable him to resist
the Welsh.

                   [Footnote 209: Rymer's Foed.]

In less than three weeks from this time the King was resident near York, and promulgated an
ordinance on the 22nd of September to the sheriffs of Devon and other counties to meet him
on the 10th of October at Evesham; the body of this ordinance contained a very interesting
report which the King had received from "his most dear first-born son," Henry Prince of Wales,
whom he had left in that country for the chastisement of the rebels. "Those," he says, "in
the castle of Llanpadarn have submitted to the Prince, and have sworn on the body of the Lord,
administered to them by the hands of our cousin Richard Courtney, chancellor of Oxford, in
the presence of the Duke of York, that if we, or our son, or our lieutenant, shall not be removed
from the siege by Owyn Glyndowr between the 24th October next coming at sunrising, and the
Feast of All Saints the next to come (1st       (p. 217) November), in that case the said rebels
will restore the castle in the same condition; and for greater security they have given hostages.
Wishing to preserve the state and honour of ourself, our son, and the common good of England,
which may be secured by the conquest of that castle, (since probably by the conquest of that
castle the whole rebellion of the Welsh will be terminated, the contrary to which is to be
lamented by us and all our faithful subjects,) we intend shortly to be present at that siege,
on the 24th of October, together with our son, or to send a sufficient deputy to aid our son.
We therefore command you to cause all who owe us suit and service to meet us at Evesham on
the 10th of October."

Towards the close of this year we are reminded again of the deplorable state of the King's
revenue, by the urgent remonstrance of Lord Grey of Codnor, and the recommendation of the council
in consequence. Lord Grey complained that he could obtain no money from the King's receivers,
though they had warrants and commands to pay him: that he had pawned his plate and other goods;
and that, without redeeming them, he could not remove from Caermarthen to Brecon.[210] He then
prays that     (p. 218) means may be adopted for payment of his debts and the wages of his
men, if the royal pleasure was for him to remain in those parts, or else to allow him to be
excused. The council advise the King to make him Lieutenant of South Wales and West Wales,
considering his vast trouble in bringing his people from England; to direct payment to be made
to him from the revenues of Brecknock, Kidwelly, Monmouth,[211] and Oggmore, belonging to the
Duchy of Lancaster; and to grant him the commission to be Justice of those parts during the
time of his lieutenancy. He was appointed lieutenant on the 2nd of December 1405, and continued
so till the 1st of February 1406. The council also complained that the people of Pembrokeshire
had not done their duty in resisting the rebels, and recommended the King to charge Lord Grey
to make inquisition of the defaulters.[212]

                   [Footnote 210: In the Minutes of a previous
                   Council, probably in the spring of 1405, Lord Grey
                   is directed to take charge of Brecon with forty
                   lances and two hundred archers, and of Radnor with
                   thirty lances and one hundred and fifty archers.]

                   [Footnote 211: The council inform the King that the
                   council of his Duchy had made an exception of the
                   lordship of Monmouth, which should bear the most
                   substantial of all the assignments.]

                   [Footnote 212: On the 3rd of March 1406, the
                   Commons speak of those castles in Wales "which,
                   with God's blessing, might be hereafter reduced."]

In the following year, on the 22nd of March 1406, Henry Beaufort Bishop of Winchester, was
commissioned to treat anew for a marriage between Prince Henry and some "one of the daughters
of our adversary of France." But the negociation seems to have failed. On the 18th of this
month permission was given by the King to Edmund Walsingham to     (p. 219) ransom his brother
Nicholas. The document gives a brief but most significant account of the treatment which awaited
Owyn's captives. Walsingham, who was taken prisoner near Brecknock, was plundered and kept
in ward in so wretched and miserable a state that he could scarcely survive. His ransom was
to be 50l.[213]

                   [Footnote 213: MS. Donat. 4596.]

On the 3rd of April the Commons prayed the King to send his honourable letters under his privy
seal, thanking the Prince for the good and constant labour and diligence which he had, and
continued to have, in resisting and chastening the rebels.

On the 5th of April a commission was given by the King to Lord Grey and the Prior of Ewenny
to execute "all contracts and agreements[214] made by the Prince our dear son, whom we have
appointed our Lieutenant of North and South Wales, and have authorized to receive into allegiance
at his discretion our rebels up to the Feast of St. Martin in Yeme."[215]

                   [Footnote 214: The Minutes of Council, at the end
                   of March or the beginning of April, record a
                   recommendation that the fines of the rebels as well
                   as the rents and issues from their land, be
                   expended on the wars in Wales: and John Bodenham
                   was appointed comptroller of these fines.]

                   [Footnote 215: St. Martin in the winter.]

Very few events are recorded as having taken place through this spring and summer which tend
to throw light on the character or proceedings of Henry of Monmouth. He remained in Wales,
probably without       (p. 220) leaving it for any length of time. The crown had been already
settled upon him and his three brothers in succession; but on the 22nd of December this year,
in full parliament, at the urgent instance of the great people of the realm, the succession
was again limited to Henry the Prince and his three brothers, and their heirs, but not to the
exclusion of females.

The French made a more feeble attempt to assist Glyndowr, in 1406, with a fleet of thirty-six
vessels, the greater part of which was shipwrecked in a storm.[216] They had been more successful
on their former invasions of Wales: but they found in that wild and impoverished country little
to induce them to persevere in a struggle which promised neither national glory nor individual
profit; and they left Owyn to drag out his war as he best could, depending on his own resources.

                   [Footnote 216: The French about this time made a
                   sort of piratical attack on the Isle of Wight.]

It is with unalloyed satisfaction that we are able to record the testimony which the Commons
of England at this time, by the mouth of their Speaker, bore to the character of Henry of Monmouth.
It may seem strange that no use has been made of this evidence by any historian, not even by
those who have undertaken to rescue his name from the aspersions with which it has been assailed.
The tribute of praise and admiration for his son, then addressed to the King on his throne,
(p. 221) in the midst of the assembled prelates, and peers, and commons of the whole realm,
is the more valuable because it bears on some of those very points in which his reputation
has been most attacked. The vague tradition of subsequent chroniclers, the unbridled fancy
of the poet, the bitterness of polemical controversy, unite in representing Henry as a self-willed,
obstinate young man, regardless of every object but his own gratification, "as dissolute as
desperate," under no control of feelings of modesty, with no reverence for his elders, discarding
all parental authority, reckless of consequences; his own will being his only rule of conduct,
his own pleasures the chief end for which he seemed to live. These charges have been adopted,
and re-echoed, and sent down to posterity with gathered strength and confirmation, by our poets,
by our historians, civil and ecclesiastical, by the ornaments of the legal profession,--even
one of our most celebrated Judges adding the weight of his name to the general accusation.
It is not the province of this work to vindicate the character of Henry from charges brought
against him: truth, not eulogy, is its professed object, and will (the Author trusts) be found
to have been its object not in profession only. But, before the verdict of guilty be returned
against Henry, justice requires that the evidence which his accusers offer be thoroughly sifted,
and the testimony of his contemporaries, solemnly given before the assembled estates of the
realm, must in common    (p. 222) fairness be weighed against the assertions of those who could
have had no personal knowledge of him, and who derived their views through channels of the
character and purity of which we are not assured. The evidence here offered was given when
Henry was towards the close of his nineteenth year.

The Rolls of Parliament record the following as the substance of the opening address made by
the Speaker, on Monday, June 7, 1406, "to the King seated on his royal throne." "He made a
commendation of the many excellencies and virtues which habitually dwelt [reposerent] in the
honourable person of the Prince; and especially, first, of the humility and obedience which
he bears towards our sovereign lord the King, his father; so that there can be no person, of
any degree whatever, who entertains or shows more honour and reverence of humbleness and obedience
to his father than he shows in his honourable person. Secondly, how God hath granted to him,
and endowed him with good heart and courage, as much as ever was needed in any such prince
in the world. And, thirdly, [he spoke] of the great virtue which God hath granted him in an
especial manner, that howsoever much he had set his mind upon any important undertaking to
the best of his own judgment, yet for the great confidence which he placed in his council,
and in their loyalty, judgment, and discretion, he would kindly and graciously be influenced,
and conform himself to his council and their        (p. 223) ordinance, according to what seemed
best to them, setting aside entirely his own will and pleasure; from which it is probable that,
by the grace of God, very great comfort and honour and advantage will flow hereafter. For this,
the said Commons humbly thank our Lord Jesus Christ, and they pray for its good continuance."
Such is the preface to the prayer of their petition that he might be acknowledged by law as
heir apparent.

It may be questioned, after every fair deduction has been made from the intrinsic value of
this testimony, on the ground of the complimentary nature of such state-addresses in general,
whether history contains any document of undisputed genuineness which bears fuller or more
direct testimony to the union in the same prince of undaunted valour, filial reverence and
submission, respect for the opinion of others, readiness to sacrifice his own will, and to
follow the advice of the wise and good, than this Roll of Parliament bears to the character
of Henry of Monmouth. To all this Henry added that quality without which such a combination
of moral excellencies would not have existed, the believing obedient heart of a true Christian.
This last quality is not named in words by the Speaker; but his immediate reference to the
grace of God, and his thanks in the name of the people of England to the Almighty Saviour for
having imparted these graces to their Prince, appear to bring the question of his religious
principles before our minds. Whilst in seeking for the solution of that question we find other
pages of his history, equally genuine and authentic, which assure us that he was a sincere
and pious Christian, or else a consummate hypocrite,--a character which his bitterest accusers
have never ventured to fasten upon him.[217]

                   [Footnote 217: The Author must now add with regret,
                   that even hypocrisy has been within these few last
                   years laid to Henry's charge most unsparingly; with
                   what degree of justice will be shewn in a
                   subsequent chapter.]

       *       *       *       *       *

On the same day, June 7, 1406,[218] the Commons pray that Henry the Prince may be commissioned
to go into Wales with all possible haste, considering the news that is coming from day to day
of the rebellion of the Earl of Northumberland, and others. They also, June 19,     (p. 225)
declare the thanks of the nation to be due to Lord Grey, John Greindore, Lord Powis, and the
Earls of Chester and Salop. Henry probably returned to the Principality without delay; but
there is reason to infer that, towards the autumn of this year, Owyn Glyndowr felt himself
too much impoverished and weakened to attempt any important exploit; resolved not to yield,
and yet unable to strike any efficient blow. The Prince was thus left at liberty to visit London
for a while; and, on the 8th of December 1406, we find him present at a council at Westminster.
This council met to deliberate upon the governance of the King's household; which seems to
have drawn to itself their serious attention by its extravagance and mismanagement.[219] They
requested that good and honest officers might be appointed, especially a good controller. They
even recommended two by name, Thomas Bromflet and Arnaut Savari; and desired that the steward
and treasurer might seek for others.  (p. 226) They proposed also that a proper sum should
be provided for the household before Christmas. The council then proceeded to make the following
suggestion, which probably could have been regarded by the King only as an encroachment on
his personal liberty and prerogative, a severe reflection upon himself, and an indication of
the unkind feelings of those with whom it originated. "Also, it seems desirable that, the said
feast ended, our said sovereign the King should withdraw himself to some convenient place,
where, by the deliberation and advice of himself and his council and officers, such moderate
regulations might be established in the said household as would thenceforth tend to the pleasure
of God and the people."

                   [Footnote 218: Stowe relates, that the King about
                   this time, in crossing from Queenborough to Essex,
                   was very nearly taken prisoner by some French
                   vessels. He avoided London because the plague was
                   raging there, in which thirty thousand persons
                   died.]

                   [Footnote 219: This dissatisfaction had been
                   expressed in no very gentle language by the Commons
                   in Parliament on the 7th of the preceding June, the
                   very day on which they speak in such strong terms
                   of the good and amiable qualities of the Prince.
                   Indeed, we can scarcely avoid suspecting that the
                   Commons intended to reflect, by a sort of
                   side-wind, on the want in the King of an adequate
                   estimate of his son's worth; with somewhat perhaps
                   of an implied contrast between his excellences and
                   the defects of his father, whose unsatisfactory
                   proceedings seem at this time to have been
                   gradually alienating the public respect, and
                   transferring his popularity to his son.]

Whether the Prince took any part in these proceedings, or not, we are left in ignorance. Equally
in the dark are we as to his line of conduct with regard to those thirty-one articles proposed
by the Commons, just a fortnight afterwards; articles evidently tending to interfere with the
royal prerogative, and to limit the powers and increase the responsibility of the King's council.
"The Speaker requested that all the lords of the council should be sworn to observe these articles;"
but they refused to comply, unless the King, "of his own motion," should specially command
them to take the oath. This proceeding respecting the council forms an important feature in
its history, as it proves the very extensive manner in which the Commons           (p. 227)
interested themselves in its measures and constitution. Whether we may trace to these transactions,
as their origin, the differences which in after years show themselves plainly between the King
and his son, or whether other causes were then in operation, which time has veiled from our
sight, or which documents still in existence, but hitherto unexamined, may bring again to light,
we cannot undertake to determine.[220] Be that as it may, though from this time we find Henry
of Monmouth on some occasions in Wales, yet he seems to have taken more and more a part in
the management of the nation at large; and, as he grew in the estimation of the great people
of the land, his royal father appears to have more and more retired from public business, and
to have sunk in importance. Few documents[221] are preserved among the records now accessible
which give any information as to the Prince's proceedings through the year 1407; but those
few are by no means   (p. 228) devoid of interest, as throwing some light upon the progress
of the Welsh rebellion, and, in a degree, on Henry's character being at the same time confirmatory
of the view above taken of his occupations.

                   [Footnote 220: In 8 Henry IV, (that is, between
                   September 30, 1406, and September 29, 1407,) a
                   licence is recorded (Pat. 8 Hen. IV. p. i. m. 17.),
                   by which the King permits "his dearest son Henry,
                   Prince of Wales, to grant the advowson of the
                   church of Frodyngham, Lincolnshire,--which was his
                   own possession--to the abbot and convent of Renesly
                   for ever." Long subsequently to this, we find no
                   immediate traces of any coolness between Henry and
                   his father.]

                   [Footnote 221: The Prince was present, 23rd January
                   1407, when his father received from the Bishop of
                   Durham the great seal of England, and delivered it
                   to Thomas, Archbishop of Canterbury, then made
                   Chancellor. (Claus 8 Hen. IV. m. 23, d.)]

The Prince had laid siege to the castle of Aberystwith, situate near the town of Llanpadern;
but how long he had been before that fortress, or, indeed, at what time he had returned to
the Principality, history does not record. If, as we may infer, the King did retire, according
to the suggestion of the council, "to some convenient place," the Prince's presence was more
required in London; whilst, Owyn's power being evidently at that time on the decline, the necessity
of his personal exertions in Wales became less urgent. No accounts of the proceedings either
of Owyn, of the King, or of the Prince, at this precise period seem to have reached our time.
Probably nothing beyond the siege of a castle, or an indecisive skirmish, took place during
the spring and summer. Among the documents, to which allusion has just been made, one bears
date September 12, 1407, containing an agreement between Henry Prince of Wales on the one part,
and, on the other, Rees ap Gryffith and his associates. The Welshmen stipulate not to destroy
the houses, nor molest the shipping, should any arrive; and the Prince covenants to give them
free egress for their persons and goods. The motives by which he professes to be influenced
are very curious:   (p. 229) "For the reverence of God and All Saints, and especially also
of his own patron, John of Bridlington;[222] for the saving of human blood; and at the petition
of Richard ap Gryffyth, Abbot of Stratflorida."

                   [Footnote 222: John of Bridlington.--John of
                   Bridlington had been very recently admitted among
                   the saints of the Roman calendar: probably he was
                   the very last then canonized. Letters addressed to
                   all nations of safe conduct to John Gisbourne,
                   Canon of the Priory of Bridlington, who was then
                   going to Rome to negociate in the matter of the
                   canonization of John, the late Prior, were given by
                   Henry IV. as recently as October 4, 1400. And
                   Walsingham records that in 1404, by command of the
                   Pope, the body of St. John, formerly Prior of the
                   Canons of Bridlington, since miracles evidently
                   attended it, was translated by the hands of the
                   Archbishop of York and the Bishops of Durham and
                   Carlisle.]

Eight years after this, 23rd January 1415, a petition, which presents more than one point of
curiosity, was preferred to Henry of Monmouth, then King, with reference to this siege of Aberystwith.
Gerard Strong prays that the King would issue a warrant commanding the treasurer and barons
of the exchequer to grant him a discharge for the metal of a brass cannon burst at the siege
of Aberystwith; of a cannon called The King's Daughter, burst at the siege of Harlech; of a
cannon burst in proving it by Anthony Gunner, at Worcester; of a cannon with two chambers;
two iron guns, with gunpowder; and cross-bows and arrows, delivered to various castles." The
King granted the petition in all its prayer. This petitioner was perhaps encouraged to prefer
his   (p. 230) memorial by the success with which another suit had been urged, only in the
preceding month (13th December 1414), with reference to the same period. John Horne, citizen
and fishmonger of London, presented to Henry V. and his council a petition in these words:
"When you were Prince, his vessel laden with provisions was arrested (pressed) for the service
of Lords Talbot and Furnivale, and their soldiers, at the siege of Harlech;[223] which siege
would have failed had those supplies not been furnished by him, as Lord Talbot certifies. On
unlading and receiving payment, the rebels came upon him, burnt his ship, took himself prisoner,
and fixed his ransom at twenty marks. He was liable to be imprisoned for the debt which he
owed for the cargo." The King granted his petition, and ordered him to be paid. Henry was then
on the point of leaving England for Normandy; and these reminiscences of his early campaigns
might have presented themselves to his thoughts with agreeable associations, and rendered his
ear more ready to listen to petitions, which seem at all events to have been presented somewhat
tardily.

                   [Footnote 223: This, we infer, must have been in
                   the summer of 1409. Vide infra.]

An important circumstance, hitherto unobserved by writers on these times, is incidentally recorded
in the Pell Rolls. Prince Henry is there reimbursed, on June 1, 1409, a much larger sum than
usual    (p. 231) for the pay of his men-at-arms and archers in Wales; and is in the same entry
stated to have been retained by the consent of the council, on the 12th of the preceding May,
to remain in attendance on the person of the King, and at his bidding. The Latin[224] might
be thought to leave it in doubt whether this absence from his Principality, and constant attendance
on the King, was originally the result of his own wishes, or his father's, or at the suggestion
of the council. But the circumstance of the consent of the council being recorded proves that
Henry's absence from Wales and residence in London were not the mere result of his own will
and pleasure, independently of the wishes of those whom he ought to respect; but were at all
events in accordance with the expressed approbation of his father and the council. Probably
the plan originated with the council, the Prince willingly accepting the office, the King intimating
his consent.

                   [Footnote 224: "Hen. Principi Walliæ retento 12º
                   die Maii anno 8vo de assensu consilii Regis
                   moraturo penes ipsum Dominum Regem."]

CHAPTER XI.

1407-1409.

Though our own documents fail to supply us with any further information as to the proceedings
of Henry of Monmouth through the year 1407, and though he might have been allowed some breathing
time by the decreased energy of the Welsh rebels, yet Monstrelet informs us that he was actively
engaged in a campaign at the other extremity of the kingdom. The historian thus introduces
his readers to this affair: "How the Prince of Wales, eldest son of the King of England, accompanied
(p. 233) by his two uncles and a very great body of chivalry, went into Scotland to make war."
He then commences his chapter by the not very usual assurance that he is about to relate a
matter of fact. "Then it is the truth that at this time, 1407, about the Feast of All Saints
(1st November), Henry Prince of Wales[225] mustered an army of one thousand men-at-arms and
six thousand archers; among whom were his two uncles, the Duke of York, the Earl of Dorset,
the Lords Morteines, de Beaumont, de Rol, and Cornwal, together with many other noblemen; who
all marched towards Scotland, chiefly because the Scots had lately broken the truce between
the two kingdoms, and done great damage by fire and sword in the duchy of Lancaster, and the
district around Roxburgh. The Scots were not aware of their approach till they were near at
hand, and had committed great devastation. As soon as the King of Scotland, who was at the
town of Saint "Iango" (Andrew's) in the middle of his kingdom, heard of it, he issued orders
immediately to his chiefs; and in a few days a powerful army was assembled, which he sent under
the command of the Earl of Douglas and Buchan towards the Marches. But, when they were within
six leagues, they learnt that the English    (p. 234) were too strong for them. They consequently
sent ambassadors to the Prince of Wales and his council, who brought about a renewal of the
truce for a year; and thus the aforesaid Prince of Wales, having done much damage in Scotland,
returned into England, and the Scots dismissed their army."

                   [Footnote 225: The Pell Rolls record payment (16th
                   November 1407) to the Prince, by the hand of John
                   Strange, his treasurer of war, for one hundred and
                   twenty men-at-arms and three hundred and sixty
                   archers, then remaining at the abbey of
                   Stratfleure, to reduce the rebels, and give battle
                   in North and South Wales.]

Soon after his return from Scotland we find Henry with his father at Gloucester,[226] where
a Parliament was held in the beginning of December; the records of which enable us to carry
on still further the testimony borne to the Prince's character by his contemporaries, and to
speak of an act of generosity and noble-mindedness placed beyond the reach of calumny to disparage.
The King, on the 1st of December issued a commission for negociating a peace with France; alleging,
as the chief reason for hastening it, his desire to have more time and leisure to appease the
schism in the church. On the last day of their sitting, the Parliament prayed the King to present
the thanks of the nation to the Prince of Wales for his great services; in answer to which
the King returned many thanks to the Commons. Immediately on receiving this testimony of public
gratitude, "the Prince fell down upon his knees before the  (p. 235) King, and very humbly
mentioning that he had heard of certain evil-intentioned obloquies and detractions made to
the slander of the Duke of York,[227] declared that, if it were not for the Duke's good advice
and counsel, he, my lord the Prince himself, and others in his company, would have been in
great peril and desolation." "Moreover," (continued the Prince,) "the Duke, as though he had
been one of the poorest gentlemen of the realm who would have to toil and struggle for the
acquirement of his own honour and name, laboured, and did his very best to give courage and
comfort to all others around him. He affirmed also, that the Duke was in everything a loyal
and valiant knight."[228] This generous conduct towards one on whom the royal displeasure had
fallen, but who seems to have always conducted himself as a brave and faithful and honourable
subject, naturally raised in all who witnessed it a still higher admiration of the character
of the Prince, whose conduct had repeatedly called for their grateful thanks and        (p.
236) warmest eulogies. The Parliament would not separate without first praying the King, that
all who adhered steadily and faithfully to the Prince of Wales might be encouraged and rewarded,
and all who deserted him, and left his company without his permission, might be punished.

                   [Footnote 226: The reason assigned by Henry IV. for
                   convening this Parliament at Gloucester, must not
                   be overlooked.--He believed that the nearer he
                   himself, and his nobles, and his court, were to
                   "his dear son, then commissioned to reduce the
                   rebels in Wales," the greater probability there was
                   of a successful issue of the Prince's campaign.]

                   [Footnote 227: By the Author published as
                   Otterbourne, we are told, that the Lady Le
                   Despenser charged the Duke of York with having been
                   the author of the plot for stealing away the sons
                   of the Earl of March, and also for attempting the
                   King's life. On the Pell Roll, beginning Friday,
                   October 3rd, 1407, payment is recorded to divers
                   messengers sent to seize for the King's use all the
                   goods and chattels of Edward, Duke of York, and
                   Lord Le Despenser: and, subsequently, payment to
                   one Leget, for the safe conveyance of Lord Le
                   Despenser from London to the castle of
                   "Killynworth." The year before this, Edward, Duke
                   of York, was the King's Lieutenant of South Wales.]

                   [Footnote 228: Rolls of Parliament, 8 Hen. IV.]

The records of the year 1408 are particularly barren of facts with regard either to the affairs
of the kingdom at large, to the state[229] of the Principality, or to the occupations and proceedings
of Henry of Monmouth. Shortly after Midsummer he was present as a member of a council held
in the church of St. Paul, when an indenture of agreement between the King and his son, Thomas
of Lancaster, afterwards Duke of Clarence, was submitted to them for confirmation. Besides
the stipulated conditions on which the Lord Thomas should engage to execute the office of Viceroy
in Ireland, together with the sources of his allowance and the mode of payment, this agreement
contains also a provision that the Prince[230] should first be paid what was assigned to him
for the  (p. 237) safeguard of Wales. The record of this council concludes by adding, "And
it was agreed by my lord the Prince, and the other lords of the council, and by them promised
to the said Lord Thomas, that, as much as in them lay, the assignments made to him, and specified
in that indenture, should not be revoked or stopped in any way." The closing paragraph of this
minute of the council is very important and interesting, especially in one particular, presenting
Henry of Monmouth to us under a new aspect: it is the first instance in which we find the name
of the Prince mentioned by itself individually, in contradistinction to the other members of
the council; a practice for some time afterwards generally observed.

                   [Footnote 229: A minute of council (20th of
                   February) states the bare fact that Owyn, late
                   secretary to Glyndowr, had been committed to the
                   custody of Lord Grey, from November 4, 1406, and
                   had remained in ward four hundred and seventy-three
                   days; and that Gryffyth of Glyndowrdy, (Owyn
                   Glyndowr's son,) whom the Constable of the Tower
                   had delivered to the same lord on the 8th of June,
                   had been in custody two hundred and fifty days.]

                   [Footnote 230: The custody of the Earl of March and
                   his brother was given to the Prince of Wales on
                   February 1st, 1409; and, since he had received
                   nothing for their sustentation, an assignment of
                   five hundred marks a year was made to him from the
                   duties of skins and wool. On the 3rd of July, the
                   King granted to him "the manors belonging to
                   Edmund, son and heir of Roger Mortimer, Earl of
                   March," during the young man's minority. The
                   Prince's revenues seem to have been scanty in the
                   extreme, and his father had recourse to many of the
                   various modes of raising money usually adopted in
                   those days.]

Henry began at this time, in consequence, no doubt, of the requisition of the council, to take
a prominent part in the government of the kingdom at large, and to enter upon that life of
political activity which gained for him the confidence and admiration of the great majority
of the people, whilst it exposed him to the envy and jealousy of some individuals; yet he was
not immediately released from the cares and anxieties and expenses which the disturbed state
of his (p. 238) Principality involved. For in the early part of the autumn of this year we
find him again present at Caermarthen:[231] we have reason, nevertheless, to believe that,
when the winter closed in, he quitted Wales, never to return to it again either as Prince or King.

                   [Footnote 231: On the 23rd of September, Henry
                   executed a deed by which of especial grace he gave
                   "for the term of life to William Malbon, our valet
                   de chambre, the office of Raglore [Qu: Regulator?]
                   of the commotes of Glenerglyn and Hannynyok in our
                   county of Cardigan. Given under our seal in our
                   castle of Caermarthen, in the ninth year of the
                   reign of our lord and father."]

After the Prince, however, had withdrawn from personally exerting himself in the suppression
of the insurgents, Owyn Glyndowr still carried on a kind of desultory warfare, rallying from
time to time his scattered and dispirited adherents, heading them in predatory incursions upon
the property of his enemies, laying violent hands on the persons of those who resisted his
authority, and depriving them of their liberty or their lives, as best suited his own views
of policy. On the 16th of May 1409, a mandate issued by the King at Westminster, to Edward
Charleton, Lord Powis, with others,[232] is couched in language which draws a frightful picture
of the terror and confusion and misery caused by these reckless rebels; conveying, nevertheless,
at the same time the idea of a lawless band of insurgents          (p. 239) resisting the authority
of the government to the utmost of their power, but no longer of an army headed by a sovereign
and struggling for independence. The preamble of the commission runs thus: "Whereas, from the
report of many, we understand that Owyn de Glyndowrdy, and John,[233] who pretends that he
is Bishop of St. Asaph, and other our rebels and traitors in Wales, together with certain of
our enemies of France, Scotland, and other places, have now recently congregated afresh, and
gone about the lands of us, and of others our lieges, in the same parts of Wales, day and night
wickedly seizing upon some of the said lands; and capturing, scourging, and imprisoning our
faithful lieges; consuming,[234] carrying away, and devastating their property,     (p. 240)
and committing many other enormities against our peace: We, willing to resist the malice of
the aforesaid Owyn, and the aforesaid pretended Bishop, and to provide for the peace and repose
of Wales, give you this command."

                   [Footnote 232: The same commission is sent to the
                   Duke of York, Lords Arundel, Warwick, Reginald Grey
                   of Ruthyn, Richard Grey of Codnor, Constance, wife
                   of the late Thomas Le Despenser, William Beauchamp,
                   and others.]

                   [Footnote 233: This prelate was John Trevaur, who
                   was consecrated in 1395, and deposed in 1402. Much
                   doubt hangs over the appointment of his immediate
                   successor. Some say David, the second of that name,
                   was appointed to the see in 1402. Robert de
                   Lancaster was consecrated in 1411. A similar doubt
                   exists as to the successor of Richard Young, Bishop
                   of Bangor. Whether a prelate named Lewis
                   immediately followed him on his translation to
                   Rochester in 1404, or not, is very uncertain.]

                   [Footnote 234: Sir Henry Ellis, having represented
                   the mischief done to Wales by Owyn to have been
                   incalculable, enumerates a few instances of the
                   misery he caused: Montgomery deflourished, (as
                   Leland expresses himself,) Radnor partly
                   destroyed,--"and the voice is there, that when he
                   won the castle he took threescore men that had the
                   guard, and beheaded them on the brink of the castle
                   yard." "The people about Dinas did burn the castle
                   there, that Owyn should not keep it for his
                   fortress." The Haye, Abergavenny, Grosmont, Usk,
                   Pool, the Bishop's castle and the Archdeacon's
                   house at Llandaff, with the cathedrals of Bangor
                   and St. Asaph, were all either in part or wholly
                   victims of his rage. The list might be much
                   augmented. At Cardiff, he burnt the whole town,
                   except the street in which the Franciscan monks
                   dwelt. These brethren were reported to have
                   contributed large sums to support Glyndowr's cause,
                   and to enable him to invade England.]

Ten Welsh prisoners, under a warrant dated October 18th, were delivered, as it is supposed
for execution, by the Constable of Windsor to William Lisle, Marshal of England. From this
circumstance some writers have inferred that a considerable engagement took place this summer;
but it may be doubted whether the measures adopted in accordance with the above commission
would not sufficiently account for even a far greater number of prisoners being at the disposal
of the King: for he strictly charged all those lords and sheriffs to whom his commission was
directed "not to quit Wales till Owyn and the pretended Bishop should be utterly routed, but
to attack them with the whole posse of the realm night and day." No doubt can be entertained
that both their duty and their interest would induce these persons to put the King's mandate
into execution promptly and vigorously; and probably many of Owyn's partisans fell into the
hands of the government in the      (p. 241) course of the present summer and autumn: Owyn
himself, also, either sued for a truce, or acceded to the proposals made to him. The persons
to whom the King delegated the duty of crushing him, either influenced by a sense of the misery
caused far and wide by the depredations and havoc carried on by the Welsh rebels on every side,
or growing tired of a protracted struggle which brought to them neither glory nor profit, made
a truce with Owyn without any warrant from the King. So far, however, was he from sanctioning
their proceeding that he annulled the truce altogether, and (November 23rd, 1409,) issued a
new mandate to divers other persons to hasten with all their powers against the rebels.

A curious legal document, of a date later by five years than the circumstance to which it refers,
informs us that the King, when enumerating in his commission to Lord Powis the partisans of
Owyn, in addition to the auxiliaries of Scotland and France, might have mentioned the malcontents
also of England. Owyn's British supporters, even at so late a period of his rebellion, were
not confined to the Principality, but were found in other parts of the kingdom. In Trinity
Term, 2 Henry V. (1414,) a presentation is found, recording this curious fact: "John, Lord
Talbot,[235] (the Lord Furnivale,) was on his road towards Caernarvon, there to abide, and
resist the malice of       (p. 242) Owyn Glyndowr and other rebels in the parts of Wales. Accompanied
by sixty men-at-arms and seven score archers, he was hastening onward with all possible speed,
in need of victuals, arms, and other necessaries, intending to pass through Shrewsbury, and
there to buy them. On the Monday before the Nativity of John the Baptist, (17th June,) in the
tenth year of the late King, (1409,) one John Weole, constable of the town and castle, and
Richard Laken of Laken, in the same county, Esquire, and others, with very many malefactors,
of premeditated malice closed the gates against them, and guarded them, and would not suffer
any of the King's lieges to come out and assist them. By which Lord Furnivale and his men were
much impeded, and many of the King's commands remained unexecuted."[236]

                   [Footnote 235: Some documents by mistake represent
                   Lord Talbot and the Lord Furnivale as two distinct
                   individuals.]

                   [Footnote 236: MS. Donat. 4599.]

Of the rebellion in Wales, however, very few circumstances are recorded after Henry of Monmouth
had ceased to resist the rebels in person: the war gradually dwindled, and sunk at last into
insignificance. A few embers of the conflagration still remained unquenched, and called for
the watchfulness of government; but the flames had been so far subdued, that all sense of danger
to the general peace of the realm had been removed from the people of England. No precise date
can be assigned to the last show of resistance on the part of Owyn or his followers. It must
have been, at all events, later than our        (p. 243) historians have generally supposed.
About Christmas 1411 a free pardon was granted for all treasons and crimes, with an exception
from the King's grace of Owyn Glyndowr himself, and one Thomas Trumpyngton, who seems to have
made himself very obnoxious to the government. In the same year payment was made of various
sums to defray the expenses of the late siege of Harlech, the successful issue of which the
record ascribes, to the favour of God. In 1412 the King's licence was given to John Tiptoft,
seneschal, and William Boteler, receiver of Brecknock, to negociate with Owyn for the ransom
of David Gamne, the gallant Welshman who afterwards fell at the battle of Agincourt. The licence
was granted at the suit of Llewellin ap Howell, David Gamne's father, and authorised the parties
to offer in exchange any Welshmen whom they could take prisoners. In the same year, about Midsummer,
the Pell Rolls, recording a large sum paid to the Prince for the safeguard of Wales, at the
same time acquaint us with the waning state of the insurrection; for the money was to enable
the Prince to resist the rebels "now seldom rising in arms."[237] The same expression occurs
in the following December.

                   [Footnote 237: "Jam raro insurgentium."]

Still, though their rising was even then rare, yet as late as February 19, 1414, payment is
registered of a sum "to a certain Welshman coming to London, and continuing there, to give
information concerning    (p. 244) the proceedings and designs of Ewain Glendowrdy."

We gladly bring to a close these references to the last days of the dying rebellion in Wales,
by recording an act of grace on the part of Henry of Monmouth.[238] It was after he had returned
from his victory at Agincourt, and when, notwithstanding the immense drain of men and money
in his campaign in Normandy, he could doubtless have extirpated the whole remnant of the rebels,
had he delighted in vengeance rather than in mercy, that he commissioned Sir Gilbert Talbot
to "communicate and treat with Meredith ap Owyn, son of Owyn de Glendowrdy; and as well the
said Owyn, as other our rebels, to admit and receive into their allegiance, if they seek it."
Probably the stubborn heart of Owyn scorned to sue for pardon, and to share the King's grace.

                   [Footnote 238: 24th February 1416.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Of the last years of Owyn Glyndowr history furnishes us with very scanty information. It is
certain that he never fell into the hands of his enemies: it is probable that, after having
been compelled at length to withdraw from the hopeless struggle in which he had persevered
with indomitable courage, he passed away in concealment his few remaining years of disappointment
and sorrow. Tradition ventures to hint that friends in Herefordshire threw the shelter of their
hospitality over him in his days of distress and desolation. But   (p. 245) history returns
no satisfactory answer to our inquiries whether he was blessed with the consolations of religion
in his calamity; nor whether, to lighten the dreadful vicissitudes of his eventful life, he
was cheered at the close of his sorrow by any whom he loved. His reverses brought with them
no ordinary degree of suffering. In the very opening of the rebellion his houses were burnt,
and his lands were confiscated. His brother fell in one of the earliest engagements on the
borders. In the course of the struggle,[239] his wife and his children, sons and daughters,
were carried away captive, and retained as prisoners. His friends were gone; many had fallen
on the field of battle; many had died under the hand of the executioner; many had provided
for their own safety by deserting him. Every act of grace and pardon, though it embraced almost
all besides, made an exception of his name; till   (p. 246) the above offer of mercy from Henry
of Monmouth included Owyn himself. His sufferings were enough in number and intenseness to
satisfy the vengeance of any one who was not athirst for blood.

                   [Footnote 239: This is a fact, as the Author
                   believes, new in history; which, however, is placed
                   beyond all doubt by the Issue Rolls of the Pell
                   Office. 1 Henry V. 27th June, money is paid to John
                   Weele for the expenses of the wife of Owen
                   Glendourdi, of the wife of Edmund Mortimer, and of
                   others, their sons and daughters: "et aliorum
                   filiorum et filiarum suarum." On the 21st of March,
                   also 1411, Lord Grey of Codnor is authorised, as we
                   have already stated, by warrant to deliver Gryffuth
                   ap Owyn Glyndourdy, (that is, Owyn's son Griffith,)
                   and Owyn ap Griffith ap Rycard, to the constable of
                   the Tower, till further orders.--MS. Donat. 4599.

                   This son, however, of Owyn had been a prisoner for
                   a long time before the date of this warrant. Lord
                   Grey had payment made for the expenses of Griffin,
                   son of Owyn Glyndowr, as early as June 1,
                   1407.--Pell Rolls.]

In estimating the character of this extraordinary man, we must remember that almost the whole
evidence which we have of him has been derived through the medium of his enemies; in the next
place, we must not allow circumstances over which he had no control to darken his fame; nor
must our zeal in condemning the rebel, bury in oblivion the patriot, though mistaken; or the
hero, though unsuccessful.

Especially, then, must it be borne in mind, that not Henry Bolinbroke, but Richard II. was
the sovereign to whom Glyndowr[240] had owed and had originally sworn allegiance; that he had
been especially and confidentially employed in that unhappy monarch's immediate service; that
he was one of the very few who remained faithful to him, and accompanied him through perils
and trials to the last; and that he left him only when Richard's misfortunes prohibited his
friends from giving him any longer assistance or comfort. We must remember also, that, even
had his master Richard been deposed or dead, it was not Henry Bolinbroke, but the Earl of March,
whom the laws of the      (p. 247) country had taught him to regard as his liege lord. We cannot,
indeed, in honesty assign to Glyndowr the crown of martyrdom won in his country's cause; we
cannot justly ascribe his career exclusively to pure patriotism: there is too much of self[241]
mingled in his character to justify us in enrolling him among the devoted friends of freedom,
and the disinterested enemies of tyranny. He was driven into rebellion by the sense of individual
injury and insult rather than of his country's wrongs; and he too eagerly assumed to himself
the honours, authority, and power, as well as the title of sovereign of his native land. But
he was not one of those heartless ringleaders of confusion,--he was not one of those desperate
rebels with whom the English too harshly and too rashly have been wont to number him. He possessed
many qualities of the hero, deserving a better cause and a better fate. It is impossible not
to admire his unconquerable courage, his endurance of hardships, his faculty of making the
very best of the means within his reach, and his unshrinking perseverance as long as there
remained to him one ray of hope or one particle of strength. The guilt of violated faith, though
laid to his charge, has never been established. He has been, moreover, often accused of cruelty,
and of engaging in savage warfare; but even his enemies and conquerors, by their actions  
(p. 248) and by their despatches, prove, that though Owyn slew, and burnt, and laid waste far
and wide, yet in all this he executed only the law of retaliation, dreadful as that law is
both in its principle and in its consequences.

                   [Footnote 240: It does not appear, whether Owyn had
                   ever sworn allegiance to Henry IV.]

                   [Footnote 241: Pennant says he caused himself, in
                   1402, to be acknowledged Prince of Wales by his
                   countrymen, and to be crowned also.]

Owyn Glyndowr failed, and he was denounced as a rebel and a traitor.
But had the issue of the "sorry fight" of Shrewsbury been otherwise
than it was; had Hotspur so devised, and digested, and matured his
plan of operations, as to have enabled Owyn with his forces to join
heart and hand in that hard-fought field; had Bolinbroke and his son[242]
fallen on that fatal day;--instead of lingering among his native mountains
as a fugitive and a branded felon; bereft of his lands, his friends,
his children and his wife; waiting only for the blow of death to
terminate his earthly sufferings, and, when that blow fell, leaving no
memorial[243] behind him to mark either the time or the place of   (p. 249)
his release,--Owyn Glyndowr might have been recognised even by England,
as he actually had been by France, in the character of an independent
sovereign; and his people might have celebrated his name as the
avenger of his country's wrongs, the scourge of her oppressors, and
the restorer of her independence.
                                     Second Part of HENRY IV. act ii.

                   This lady, Elizabeth Percy, had probably either
                   said or done something to excite the suspicion of
                   the King; for he issued a warrant for her
                   apprehension on the 8th of October, after the
                   battle of Shrewsbury.]

                   [Footnote 243: The Welsh historians tell of various
                   traditions relating both to the place and the time
                   of his death, adding many a romantic tale of his
                   wanderings among the mountains, and in caves and
                   dens of the earth. But, unable to trace any grounds
                   of preference for one tradition above another, the
                   Author of these Memoirs leaves the question (in
                   itself of no great importance), without expressing
                   any opinion beyond what he has offered in the text.
                   He must, however, add, that the traditions of his
                   having passed many of his last days at the houses
                   of Scudamore and Monnington, of his having been
                   some time concealed in a cavern called to this day
                   Owyn's Cave, on the coast of Merioneth, and of his
                   having been buried in Monnington churchyard, are by
                   no means improbable. The story of his corpse
                   resting under a stone in the churchyard of Bangor
                   is evidently a mistake; whilst the legend which
                   would identify him with John of Kent seems
                   altogether fabulous.]

                   [Footnote 244: The Author takes the translation
                   from the Appendix to Williams' Monmouthshire.]

  Strike then your harps, ye Cambrian bards!
      The song of triumph best rewards
      An hero's toils. Let Henry weep
  His warriors wrapt in everlasting sleep:
      Success and victory are thine,
      Owain Glyndurdwy divine!
  Dominion, honour, pleasure, praise,
  Attend upon thy vigorous days.
  And, when thy evening's sun is set,
  May grateful Cambria ne'er forget
  Thy noon-tide blaze; but on thy tomb
      Never-fading laurels bloom.

By the obliging kindness of Sir Henry Ellis, the Author is enabled (p. 250) to enrich his work
by authentic representations of the Great and Privy Seals of Owyn Glyndowr as Prince of Wales;
he borrows at the same time the clear and scientific description of them, with which that antiquary
furnished the Archæologia.[245] The originals are appended to two instruments preserved in
the Hôtel Soubise at Paris, both dated in the year 1404, and believed to relate to the furnishing
of the troops which were then supplied to Owyn by the King of France.

                   [Footnote 245: Vol. xxv.]

"On the obverse of the Great Seal, Owyn is represented with a bifid beard, very similar to
Richard II, seated under a canopy of Gothic tracery; the half-body of a wolf forming the arms
of his chair on each side; the back-ground is ornamented with a mantle semée of lions, held
up by angels. At his feet are two lions. A sceptre is in his right hand; but he has no crown.
The inscription, OWENUS ... PRINCEPS WALLIÆ. On the reverse Owyn is represented on horseback
in armour: in his right hand, which is extended, he holds a sword; and with his left, his shield
charged with four lions rampant: a drapery, probably a kerchief de plesaunce, or handkerchief
won at a tournament, pendent from the right wrist. Lions rampant also appear upon the mantle
of the horse. On his helmet, as well as on his horse's head, is the Welsh dragon. The area
of the seal is diapered with roses. The inscription on this side      (p. 251) seems to fill
the gap upon the obverse, OWENUS DEI GRATIA ... WALLIÆ.

The Privy Seal represents the four lions rampant, towards the spectator's left, on a shield,
surmounted by an open coronet; the dragon of Wales as a supporter on the dexter side, on the
sinister a lion. The inscription seems to have been SIGILLUM OWENI PRINCIPIS WALLIÆ.

No impression of this seal is probably now to be found either in Wales or England. Its workmanship
shows that Owyn Glyndowr possessed a taste for art far beyond the types of the seals of his
predecessors."

CHAPTER XII.

1409-1412.

Henry of Monmouth, whose years, from the earliest opening of youth to the entrance of manhood,
had chiefly been occupied within the precincts of his own Principality in quelling the spirit
of rebellion which had burst forth there with great fury, and had been protracted with a vitality
almost incredible, is from this date to be viewed and examined under a totally different combination
of circumstances. Early in the year 1409 he was appointed Warden of the Cinque Ports and Constable
of Dover for life, with a salary of 300l. a year. Thomas Erpyngham, "the King's beloved and
faithful knight," who held those offices   (p. 253) by patent, having resigned them in favour
of the King's "very dear son."[246] He was made on the 18th of March 1410, Captain of Calais,
by writ of privy seal; and he was constituted also President of the King's Council.

                   [Footnote 246: MS. Donat. 4599.]

The character of Henry having been assailed, not only in times distant from our own, but by
writers also of the present age, on the ground of his having behaved towards his father with
unkindness and cruelty after the date of his appointment to these offices, it becomes necessary,
in order to ascertain the reality of the charge and its extent, as well as the time to which
his change of behaviour is to be referred, to trace his footsteps in all his personal transactions
with his father, and in the management of the public affairs of the realm, more narrowly than
it might otherwise have been necessary or interesting for us to do. Every incidental circumstance
which can throw any light on this uncertain and perplexing page of his history becomes invested
with an interest beyond its own intrinsic importance, just as in a judicial investigation,
where the animus of any party bears upon the question at issue, the most minute and trifling
particular will often give a clue, whilst broad and striking events may not assist in relieving
the judge from any portion of his doubts. On this principle the following facts are inserted
here. They may perhaps appear too (p. 254) disjointed for a continuous narrative; and they
are cited only as separate links which might form a chain of evidence all bearing upon the
question as to Henry's position from this time with his father.

Early in the year 1409, the King, in a letter to the Pope, when speaking of the Cardinal of
Bourdeaux says, "He came into the presence of us and of our first-born son, the Prince of Wales,
and others, our prelates." At this period we are informed by the dry details of the royal exchequer,
that the King was anxiously bent on the marriage of his son. To Sir William Bourchier payment
is made, (17th May 1409,) on account of a voyage to Denmark and Norway, to treat with Isabella,
Queen of Denmark, for a marriage between the Lord Henry, Prince of Wales, and the daughter
of Philippa of Denmark; and on the 23rd of the same month[247] a payment is made to "Hugh Mortimer,
Esq., lately twice sent by the King's command to France, to enter into a contract of marriage
between the Prince and the second daughter of the King's adversary, the King of France." In
the August of 1409 the council assembled at Westminster, resolved, with regard to Ireland,
that, should it be agreeable to the King and the Lord Thomas, it would be expedient for Lord
John Stanley to be appointed Lieutenant, he paying a stipulated sum every year to the Lord
Thomas. Before the council broke up, the Prince, who presided, undertook to speak on this 
(p. 255) subject, as well to the King his father, as to his brother the Lord Thomas. At this
time it would appear that, so far from any coldness, and jealousies, and suspicions existing
between the Prince and the members of his family, he was deemed the most fit person to negociate
an affair of much delicacy between the council and his father and his brother.

                   [Footnote 247: The payments prove nothing as to the
                   dates of the debts incurred.]

On the 31st of January 1410, the King, in the palace of Lambeth, "delivered the great seals
to Thomas Beaufort, his brother, in the presence of the Archbishop, Henry of York, and my lord
the Prince."[248] On the 5th of March following, the King's warrant was signed for the burning
of John Badley. The Prince's conduct on that occasion, which has been strangely misrepresented,
but which seems at all events to testify to the kindness of his disposition, and his anxiety
to save a fellow-creature from suffering, is examined at some length in another part of this
work, where his character is investigated with reference to the sweeping charge brought against
him of being a religious persecutor. On the 18th of that month, when he was appointed Captain
of Calais, his father at the same time made him a present for life of his house called Coldharbour.
It must be here observed that the disagreement which evidently arose and           (p. 256)
continued for some time between the King and the Commons, though the Prince was compelled to
take a part in it, seems not to have shaken the King's confidence in him, nor to have alienated
his affections from him at all. On the 23rd of March the Commons require the King to appoint
a council; and on Friday, the 2nd of May following, they ask the King to inform them of the
names of his council: on which occasion this remarkable circumstance occurred.[249] The King
replied that many had been excused; that the others were the Prince, the Bishops of Worcester,
Durham, and Bath, Lords Arundel, Westmoreland, and Burnell. The Prince then, in the name of
all, prayed to be excused, if there would not be found money sufficient to defray the necessary
charges; and, should nothing adequate be granted, then that they should at the end of the parliament
be discharged from all expenses incurred by them. Upon this they resolved that the Prince should
not be sworn as a member of the council, because of the high dignity of his honourable person.
The other members were sworn. It is to this stipulation of the Prince that the King refers
at the close of the parliament in 1411, when, after the Commons had prayed the King to thank
the Prince and council, he says, "I am persuaded they would have done more had they had more
ample means, as my lord the Prince declared when they were appointed."

                   [Footnote 248: These insulated facts may be thought
                   to prove little of themselves; but they throw light
                   (it is presumed) both on Henry of Monmouth's
                   occupations, through these years of his life, and
                   especially on the point of any rupture existing
                   between himself and the King his father.]

                   [Footnote 249: Parl. Rolls, 1410.]

It has often been a subject of wonder what should have brought     (p. 257) the Prince and
his brother so often into East-Cheap; and the story of the Boar's Head in Shakspeare has long
associated in our minds Henry Prince of Wales with a low and vulgar part of London, in which
he could have had no engagement worthy of his station, and to which, therefore, he must have
resorted only for the purposes of riot and revelry with his unworthy and dissolute companions.
History records nothing of the Prince derogatory to his princely and Christian character during
his residence in Coldharbour; it does indeed charge two of the King's sons with a riot there,
but they are stated by name to be Thomas and John. Henry's name does not occur at all in connexion
with any disturbance or misdoing. The fact, however, (not generally known,) of Henry having
his own house, the gift of his father, in the heart of London, near East-Cheap, (the scene
indeed of Shakspeare's poetical romance, but really the frequent place of meeting for the King's
council whilst Henry was their president,) might seem to call for a few words as to the locality
of Coldharbour and its circumstances. The grant by his father of this mansion, dated Westminster,
March 18th, 1410, is couched in these words: "Know ye, that, of our especial grace, we have
granted to our dearest son, Henry Prince of Wales, a certain hostel or place called Coldharbour,
in our city of London, with its appurtenances, to hold for the term of his life, without (p.
258) any payment to us for the same."[250] These premises, we learn, came into Henry IV.'s
possession by the right of his wife. Stowe, who supplies the materials from which we safely
make that inference, does not seem to have been aware that it was ever in the possession of
either that King or his son. He tells us it was bought in the 8th of Edward III. by John Poultney,
who was four times mayor, and who lived there when it was called Poultney Inn. But, thirteen
years afterward (21 Edward III.), he, by charter, gave and confirmed it to Humfrey de Bohun,
Earl of Hereford and Essex, as "his whole tenement called Coldharbour, with all the tenements
and key adjoining, on the way called Haywharf Lane (All Saints ad foenum), for a rose at Midsummer,
if demanded. In 1397, John Holland, Earl of Huntingdon, lodged there; and Richard II, his brother,
dined with him. It was then counted a right fair and stately house."[251]

                   [Footnote 250: Rym. Foed. vol. vii.]

                   [Footnote 251: Stowe's London, ii. 206.]

We are led to infer, though the formal grant of this house to Prince Henry was made only in
the March of this year, yet that it had been his residence for some time previously; for, on
the 8th of the preceding February, we find a council held there, himself present as its chief.

It does not appear by any positive statement that the Prince visited Calais immediately on
his appointment to its captaincy, but we     (p. 259) shall probably be safe in concluding
that he did so; for, very soon afterwards, we find letters of protection[252] for one year
(from April 23) given to Thomas Selby, who was to go with the Prince, and remain with him at
Calais. At all events, he was resident in London by the middle of June, and had apparently
engaged most actively in the affairs of government. On the 16th of that month we find him president
at two sittings of the council on the same day:[253] the first at Coldharbour, in which it
was determined that three parts of the subsidy granted to the King on wools, hides, &c. should
be applied to the payment of the garrison of Calais and of the marches thereof; the second,
at the Convent of the Preaching Friars, when an ordinance was made for the payment of the garrison
of Berwick and the East March of Scotland.

                   [Footnote 252: Rymer's Foed.]

                   [Footnote 253: Acts of Council.]

The Prince presided at a council, on the 18th of June, in Westminster; and, on the 19th, in
the house of the Bishop of Hereford. To this council his brother Thomas of Lancaster presented
a petition praying for reformation of certain tallies, by default of which he could not obtain
the money due to him. The preamble, as well as the body of this petition, proves that at this
time the Prince was regarded not merely as a member of the council, but as its president, to
be named and addressed individually and in contradistinction to the other       (p. 260) members.
"The petition of my lord Thomas of Lancaster, made to the very honourable and puissant lord
the Prince, and the other very honourable and wise lords of the council of our sovereign lord
the King. First, may it please my said lord the Prince, and the other lords of the council,"
&c.--That up to this time no jealousy had arisen in the King's mind in consequence of the growing
popularity and ascendency of his son, is evidenced by the record of the same council. That
document tells us plainly that the King was cordial with him, and employed him as his confidential
representative: it shall speak for itself. "And then my said lord the Prince reported to the
other members of the council, that he had it in command from his very good lord and father
to ordain, with the advice of the others of the said council, that the Lord Thomas Beaufort,
brother of our said lord the King and his chancellor of England, should have such gratuity
for one year beyond his fees as to them should seem reasonable. On which, by our said lord
the Prince, and all the others, it was agreed that the said chancellor should receive for one
year, from the day of his appointment, 800 marks."

The next council, at which also we find the Prince acting as president, was held on the 11th
of July. Between the dates of these two last councils, that disturbance in the street took
place which the Chronicle of London refers to merely as "an affray in East-Cheap   (p. 261)
between the townsmen and the Princes Thomas and John;" but which Stowe records with much of
detail and minuteness. Many, it is believed, may be disposed to regard it as the foundation
chosen by Shakspeare on which to build the superstructure of his own fascinating imagination,
and on which other writers more grave, though not more trustworthy as historians, have rested
for conclusive evidence of the wild frolics and "madcap" adventures of Henry of Monmouth. 
(p. 262) It must be observed that not one word is here said of Prince Henry having anything
whatever to do with the affray: whether "other of the court" meant some of his household, or
not, does not appear; neither are we told that the two brothers had been supping with the Prince.
And yet, unless some facts are alleged by which the mayor and the chief justice may be connected
with him in reference to some broil, we may well question whether the current stories relating
to his East-Cheap revelries have any other foundation than this. At all events, the Prince
seems to have been most regular during this summer in his attendance at the council-board.
On the 22nd, 29th, 30th of July, we find him acting as president. The last council was held
at the house of Robert Lovell, Esq. near Old Fish Street in London; at which 1400l. was voted
to the Prince for the safeguard of Calais, to be repaid out of the first receipts from the
duties on wools and skins.[255]

                   [Footnote 254: That is, that they should ask the
                   King's pardon.]

                   [Footnote 255: On the 7th of September the King
                   commissions his very dear son the Prince, or his
                   lieutenant, to punish the rebels of Wales.]

On the 18th of November we find a mandate directed to the Prince, as Warden of the Cinque Ports,
to see justice done in a case of piracy; and on the 29th, the King, being then at Leicester,
issues to Henry the Prince, as Captain of Calais, and to his lieutenant, the same commission,
to grant safe-conducts, as had been given to John      (p. 263) Earl of Somerset, the late
captain.[256]

                   [Footnote 256: The Earl died on Palm Sunday, 16th
                   of March 1410; immediately on whose demise the
                   Prince was appointed captain. Minutes of Council,
                   16th June 1410.]

Where the Prince passed the winter does not seem to be recorded. In the following spring we
find this minute of council. "Be it remembered, that on Thursday, the 19th of March, in the
twelfth year of our sovereign lord the King, at Lambeth, in presence of our said lord the King,
and his very dear son my lord the Prince, the following prelates and other lords were assembled."[257]
It cannot escape observation, that, instead of the Prince being mentioned as one of the council,
or as their president, his name is coupled with the King's as one of the two in whose presence
the others were assembled.[258]

                   [Footnote 257: There are many curious items of
                   expenditure in the minutes of this council; one
                   which few perhaps would have expected: "Item, to
                   John Rys, for the lions in his custody per annum
                   120l."]

                   [Footnote 258: In a minute of the council, about
                   April this year, we find an item of expense which
                   proves that Wales still required the presence of a
                   considerable force: "Item, to my lord the Prince,
                   for the wages of three hundred men-at-arms and six
                   hundred archers who have lived and will live for
                   the safeguard of the Welsh parts, from the 9th day
                   of July 1410, to the 7th day of April then next
                   ensuing, 8000l."

                   In this month the King implores the Archbishops of
                   Canterbury and York to pray for him, and to urge
                   all their clergy to supplicate God's help and
                   protection of himself, his children, and his realm.
                   And many prayers, and processions, and masses are
                   ordered; and all in so urgent a manner as would
                   lead us to think that there was some especial cause
                   of anxiety and alarm, or some severe affliction
                   present or feared.--Rymer.

                   On the 18th of August, a warrant is issued for the
                   liberation of Llewellyn ap David Whyht, and Yon ap
                   Griffith ap Lli, from the Tower.--MS. Donat. 4599.

                   In the parliament, at the close of this year,
                   grievous complaints are made by the Border counties
                   against the violence and ravages and extortions of
                   the Welsh; and an order is sought "to arrest the
                   cousins of all rebels and evil-doers of the Welsh,
                   until the malefactors yield themselves up; for by
                   such kinsmen only are they supported."

                   The cruelties of the Welsh are described in very
                   strong colours by the petitioners; but it is not
                   evident what was the result of their prayer. The
                   rebels and robbers, they say, carry the English off
                   into woods and deserts, and tie them to trees, and
                   keep them, as in prison, for three or four months,
                   till they are ransomed at the utmost value of their
                   goods; and yet these malefactors were pardoned by
                   the lords of the marches. The petitioners pray for
                   more summary justice. Rolls of Parl.]

Early in the autumn of this year a negociation was set on foot     (p. 264) for a marriage
between Prince Henry and the daughter of the Duke of Burgundy. Ambassadors were appointed for
carrying on the treaty; and on September 1st, 1411, instructions were given to the Bishop of
St. David's, the Earl of Arundel, Lord Francis de Court, Hugh Mortimer, Esq. and John Catryk,
Clerk, or any two or more of them, how to negociate without finally concluding the treaty,
and to report to the King and Prince.

The instructions may be examined at full length in Sir Harris Nicolas' "Acts of the Privy Council"
by any who may feel an interest in     (p. 265) them independently of Henry of Monmouth's character
and proceedings; to others the first paragraph will sufficiently indicate the tenour of the
whole document. "First, inasmuch as our sovereign lord the King, by the report of the message
of the Duke of Burgundy, understood that the Duke entertains a great affection and desire to
have an alliance with our said sovereign by means of a marriage to be contracted, God willing,
between our redoubted lord the Prince and the daughter of the aforesaid Duke, the King wishes
that his said ambassadors should first of all demand of the Duke his daughter, to be given
to my lord the Prince; and that after they have heard what the Duke will offer on account of
the said marriage, whether by grant of lands and possessions, or of goods and jewels, and according
to the greatest offer which by this negociation might be made by one party or the other, a
report be made of that to our said lord the King and our said lord the Prince by the ambassadors."
The other instructions relate rather to political stipulations than pecuniary arrangements.
These negociations met with the fate they merited; and all idea of a marriage between the Prince
and the daughter of the Duke of Burgundy was abandoned. But since Henry's behaviour in the
transaction has been urged as proof of his having then discarded parental authority, and acted
for himself in contravention of his father's wishes, thereby incurring his royal displeasure,
and sowing the seeds of that      (p. 266) state of mutual dissatisfaction, and jealousy, and
strife which is said to have grown up afterwards into a harvest of bitterness, the subject
assumes greater importance to those who are anxiously tracing Henry's real character; and must
be examined and sifted with care, and patience, and candour.

       *       *       *       *       *

The question involved is this: "In the quarrel between the Dukes of Burgundy and Orleans, did
Prince Henry send the first troops from his own forces under the command of his own friends
to the aid of the Duke of Burgundy, against the express wishes of his father; or did the contradictory
measures of England in first succouring the Duke of Burgundy, and then the Duke of Orleans
his antagonist, arise from a change of policy in the King himself and the English government,
without implying undutiful conduct on the part of the Prince, or dissatisfaction in his father
towards him?" The former view has been recommended for adoption, though it reflects upon the
Prince's character as a son; and it has been thereupon suggested that, "instead of denying
his previous faults, we should recollect his sudden and earnest reformation, and the new direction
of his feelings and character, as the mode more beneficial to his memory."[259] But in this
work, which professes not to search for exculpation, nor to deal in eulogy, but to seek the
truth, and follow it to whatever consequences it might lead, we must on no account so hastily
(p. 267) acquiesce in the assumption that Henry of Monmouth was on this occasion undutifully
opposed to his father.[260] However rejoiced we may be to find in a fellow-Christian the example
of a sincere penitent growing in grace, it cannot be right to multiply or aggravate his faults
for the purpose of making his conversion more striking and complete. We may firmly hope that,
if he had been a disobedient and unkind son in any one particular, he repented truly of that
fault. But his biographer must sift the evidence adduced in proof of the alleged delinquency;
instead of admitting on insufficient ground an allegation, in order to assimilate his character
to general fame, or to heighten the dramatic effect of his subsequent course of virtue.

                   [Footnote 259: Turner's Hist. Eng.]

                   [Footnote 260: The character of the manuscript, on
                   the authority of which this and another charge
                   against Henry of Monmouth have been grounded, will
                   be examined at length, as to its genuineness and
                   authenticity in the Appendix.]

In discussing this question it will be necessary to attend with care to the order and date
of each circumstance. By a temporary forgetfulness of this indispensable part of an historian's
duty, the writers who have adopted the view most adverse to Henry as a son, have been led to
give an incorrect view of the whole transaction, especially as it affects the character and
filial conduct of the Prince.

The first application for aid was made to the King by the Duke of Burgundy, who offered at
the same time his daughter in marriage    (p. 268) to the Prince. This was in August 1411;
and doubtless, if he found the King backward or unfavourably inclined, he would naturally apply
to the Prince for his good offices, who was personally most interested in the result of the
negociation; not to induce him to act against his father, but to prevail upon his father to
agree to the proposal. This course was, we are told, actually pursued, and Prince Henry was
allowed by his father to send some forces immediately to strengthen the ranks of Burgundy.
They joined his army, and remained at Paris till provisions became so dear that they resolved
to procure them from the enemy, who were stationed at St. Cloud. Here, at the broken bridge,
the two parties engaged; and Burgundy, by the help of the English auxiliaries, completely routed
the Duke of Orleans' forces. The English subsequently received their pay; and, their services
being no longer required, returned at their leisure by Calais to their own country. The Duke
of Orleans learning that these troops were dismissed unceremoniously by his antagonist, and
conceiving that Henry's resentment of the indignity might make for him a favourable opening,
despatched ambassadors to England with most magnificent offers; but this was not till the beginning
of the next year after the battle of St. Cloud, which took place[261] on the 10th November
1411. That the King himself contemplated the expediency of sending auxiliaries    (p. 269)
to the Duke of Burgundy in the beginning of September, is put beyond doubt by the instructions
given to the ambassadors. Even so late as February 10, 1412, the King issued a commission to
Lord Grey, the Bishop of Durham, and others, not only to treat for the marriage of the Prince
with that Duke's daughter, but to negociate with him also on mutual alliances and confederacies,
and on the course of trade between England and Flanders; the King having previously, on the
11th of January, signed letters patent, to remain in force till the Feast of Pentecost, for
the safe conduct and protection of the Duke's ambassadors with one hundred men. With a view
of enabling the reader more satisfactorily to form his own judgment on the validity of this
charge of unfilial and selfwilled conduct on the part of Henry of Monmouth, the Author is induced,
instead of confining himself to the general statement of his own views, or of the considerations
on which his conclusion has been built, to cite the evidence separately of several authors
who have recorded the proceedings. He trusts the importance of the point at issue will be thought
to justify the detail.

                   [Footnote 261: Monstrelet says distinctly, that the
                   Duke of Burgundy left Paris, at midnight, on the
                   9th of November.]

Walsingham, who is in some points very minute when describing these transactions, so as even
to record the very words employed by the King on the first application of the Duke, does not
mention the name of the Prince of Wales throughout. He represents the King as having      
(p. 270) recommended the Duke to try measures of mutual forgiveness and reconciliation; at
all events, to let the fault of encouraging civil discord be with his adversaries; but withal
promising, in case of the failure of that plan, to send the aid he desired. The same writer
states the mission of the Earl of Arundel, Lord Kyme, Lord Cobham, (Sir John Oldcastle,) and
others, with an army, as the consequence of this engagement on the part of the King.[262] He
then tells us that, in the next year after these forces had been dismissed by the Duke of Burgundy,
the Duke of Orleans made application to the King.

                   [Footnote 262: "Transmissi sunt ergo;" without
                   the slightest intimation of any interference on the
                   part of the Prince.]

Elmham, who mentions the successful application of Burgundy to the Prince, and the consequent
mission of an English force, represents the Prince as having recommended himself more than
ever to his royal father on that occasion.[263]

                   [Footnote 263: These chroniclers show clearly the
                   general opinion in their day to have been that
                   there was for a time an alienation of affection
                   between Henry and his father, brought about by
                   envious calumniators; but that they were soon
                   cordially reconciled: "Non obstante quorundam
                   detractatione et accusatione multiplici, ipse,
                   invidis renitentibus, suæ piissimæ benignitatis
                   mediis, &c". Elmham, thus ascribes the cause of the
                   temporary interruption of cordiality to the malice
                   of detractors, and its final and lasting
                   restoration to Henry's filial and affectionate
                   kindness.]

Titus Livius, who says that the Duke of Burgundy applied to the Prince, and that he sent some
of his own men to succour him,       (p. 271) distinctly tells us that he did it with the good-will
and consent of his father. He adds, (what could have originated only in an oversight of dates,)
that the Prince was made, in consequence of his conduct on this occasion, the chief of the
council, and was always called the dear and beloved son of his father. He intimates, (but very
obscurely,) that, by the aspersions of some, his fame sustained for a short time some blemish
in this point.[264]

                   [Footnote 264: "Etsi nonnullorum detrectationibus
                   in hoc aliquantisper fama sua læsa fuerit." Some
                   writers have built very unadvisedly on this
                   expression. It is at best obscure, and capable of a
                   very different interpretation; and, even at the
                   most, it only implies that the Prince was then the
                   object of calumny at the hand of some persons who
                   could not effect any lasting wound on his fame.]

Polydore Vergil[265] says distinctly that, on the Duke of Burgundy first opening the negociation,
the King, anticipating good to himself from the quarrels of his neighbours, willingly promised
aid, and as soon as possible sent a strong force to succour him. He then records the victory
gained by Burgundy at the Bridge of St. Cloud, and the dismissal of his English allies with
presents; adding, that King Henry thought it a weakness in him to send them home prematurely,
before he had finished the struggle. And when the Duke of Orleans, on        (p. 272) hearing
of this hasty dismissal, entered upon a counter negociation, the King willingly listened to
his proposals, having felt hurt at the conduct of the Duke of Burgundy towards those English
auxiliaries.

                   [Footnote 265: The testimony of these later authors
                   is only valuable so far as they are believed to
                   have been faithful in copying the accounts, or
                   extracting from the statements, of preceding
                   writings, the works of many of whom have not come
                   down to our times.]

The Chronicle of London tells us that, when the King would grant no men to the Duke of Burgundy,
he applied to the Prince, "who sent the Earl of Arundel and the Lord Cobham, with other lords
and gentles, with a fair retinue and well-arrayed people."

Whilst we remark that in these several accounts no allusion whatever is made to any opposition
to his father on the part of the Prince, or any sign of displeasure on the part of the King
in this particular point of his conduct, the simple facts are decidedly against the supposition
of any such unsatisfactory proceeding. In February 1412, more than three months after the Earl
of Arundel's dismissal by the Duke of Burgundy, the King was still engaged in negociations
with that Duke: nor was it till three months after that,--not till May 18th,--that the final
treaty between the King and the Duke of Orleans was signed.[266] And it is very remarkable
that, within two days, the Prince[267] himself, as well as his three brothers, in the     
(p. 273) presence of their father, solemnly undertook to be parties to that treaty, and to
abide faithfully by its provisions.

                   [Footnote 266: The King had issued a proclamation
                   at Canterbury, addressed to all sheriffs, and to
                   the Captain also of Calais, forbidding his subjects
                   of any condition or degree whatsoever to interfere
                   in this foreign quarrel. April 10, 1412.]

                   [Footnote 267: Rymer Foed.]

We are compelled, then, to infer, that there is no evidence whatever of Prince Henry having
acted in this affair in contravention of his father's will. He very probably used his influence
to persuade the King, and was successful. And as to the application having been made to him
by the Duke of Burgundy, and not to the King, we must bear in mind that, at this period, it
was to him that even his brother Thomas presented his petition, and not to his father; and
that the Pope sent his commendatory letters to him, and not to the King.[268]

                   [Footnote 268: On February 9th, in the third year
                   of his pontificate (1413), Pope John recommends
                   John Bremor to the kind offices of the Prince; and,
                   on the kalends of March (1st of March), the same
                   pontiff sent Dr. Richard Derham with a message to
                   him by word of mouth.]

The French historians, though their attention has naturally been drawn to the introduction
of English auxiliaries into the land of France, rather than to the authority by which they
were commissioned, enable us to acquiesce with increased satisfaction in the conclusion to
which we have arrived. Whether contemporary or modern,[269] they seem all to have considered
the original mission of Lord Arundel and the troops under his command as the act of King Henry
IV. himself.[270] They inform us, moreover, that, on the arrival in England of the        (p.
274) subsequent embassy of the Duke of Burgundy, so late as March 1412,[271] his representatives
were received with every mark of respect and cordiality, not only by the Prince, but by the
King also, and his other sons. They lead us also to infer that, when the confederate French
princes made their application for succours "to the King and his second son,"[272] the Prince
withheld his concurrence from the change of conduct adopted by his father, and endeavoured
to the utmost of his power to prevent the contemplated expedition under the Duke of Clarence
from being carried into effect. A comparison of these authors with our own undisputed documents
supplies a very intelligible and consistent view of the whole transaction; and so far from
representing Henry of Monmouth as an undutiful son, obstinately bent on pursuing his own career,
reckless of his father's wishes, bears incidental testimony both to his steadiness of purpose,
and to his unwillingness to act in opposition to his father. In conjunction with the King he
originally espoused the cause of Burgundy, and was afterwards averse from deserting their ally.
He was anxious also to dissuade his father from adopting that vacillating policy on which he
saw him bent. But within two days after the King had irrevocably taken his final resolve, and
had joined himself to the Duke of Orleans, and the other confederated princes by a league,
offensive and defensive, against the Duke of Burgundy, instead of persevering in his      
(p. 275) opposition to that measure, or defying his father's authority, within two days he
made himself a party to that league, and pledged his faith to observe it.

                   [Footnote 269: M. Petitot.]

                   [Footnote 270: Jean Le Fevre, Morice, Lobineau.]

                   [Footnote 271: Monstrelet.]

                   [Footnote 272: Laboureur.]

Although Prince Henry seems to have had little to do with these continental expeditions beyond
the first mission of Lord Arundel and his forces, yet it is impossible not to suspect (as the
French at the time anticipated) that this decided interference, on the part of England, with
the affairs of France, may have been a prelude to the enterprise of the next reign. Who can
say that the battle and victory at St. Cloud passed away without any influence on the course
of events which made Henry V. heir to the King of France?

We must not leave the mention of this battle without repeating the testimony borne by the chroniclers
of the day to the courage and humanity of the English, though we lament, at the same time,
the act of cruelty on the part of the French, with which the character of our forefathers stands
in such strong contrast. When the victory was won, the Duke of Burgundy, with the usual ferocity
of civil warfare, commanded his officers to put their prisoners to death. The English generals
resisted this sanguinary mandate,[273] declaring they would die with their captives rather
than see them murdered; at the      (p. 276) same time forming their men in battle-array to
support, with their lives, their noble resolution.

                   [Footnote 273: Hardyng has thus recorded this
                   gratifying exhibition of generous feeling and noble
                   resolve on the part of the English:

                                "He commanded then eche capitayn
                         His prisoners to kill them in certayn.
                         To which, Gilbert Umfreuile, Erle of Kyme,
                         Answered for all his fellowes and their men,
                         They should all die together at a tyme
                         Ere theyr prisoners so shulde be slayn then;
                         And, with that, took the field as folk did ken,
                         With all theyr men and all theyr prysoners,
                         To die with them, as worship it requires.
                         He said they were not come thyther as bouchers
                         To kyll the folke in market or in feire,
                         Nor them to sell; but, as arms requires,
                         Them to gouern without any dispeyre."
                                                         Hardyng's Chron.]

It was about the Feast of the Assumption (August 25) that the King sent his son Thomas Duke
of Clarence[274] to aid the Duke of Orleans against the Duke of Burgundy: "many persons," says
Walsingham, "wondering what could be the sudden change, that in so short a     (p. 277) space
of time the English should support two opposite contending parties." The Duke of Orleans failed
to join them in time, and the English committed many depredations as in an enemy's country.
At last, the two generals meeting, the Duke of Orleans consented to pay a large sum to the
Duke of Clarence on condition that the English should evacuate the country: and the Earl of
Angouleme[275] was given as a hostage for the due payment of the stipulated sum. The Duke of
Clarence did not return to England till after his father's death.

                   [Footnote 274: There is some discrepancy in the
                   accounts of the time of Clarence's departure. The
                   Chronicle of London puts it nearly a month earlier
                   than Walsingham: "And then rode Thomas, the King's
                   son, Duke of Clarence, and with him the Duke of
                   York, and Beauford, then Earl of Dorset, towards
                   [South] Hampton with a great retinue of people; and
                   on Tuesday rode the Earl's brother of Oxenford, and
                   on the Wednesday rode the Earl of Oxenford; and
                   they all lay at Hampton, and abode in the wynde
                   till on the Thursday, the 1st day of August. The
                   which Thursday, Friday, and Saturday they passed
                   out of the haven XIIII ships,--were driven back on
                   Sunday,--and after landed at St. Fasters, near
                   Hagges, in Normandy."]

                   [Footnote 275: In the "Additional Charters," now in
                   the British Museum, purchased of the Baron de
                   Joursanvault, we find letters patent from Charles
                   VI, reciting that, by his permission, a treaty had
                   been made with the Duke of Clarence and other
                   English, who agreed to evacuate the country without
                   making war; the Duke of Orleans giving to them the
                   Earl of Angouleme as a hostage, for whose ransom
                   the Duke was put to vast charges. Letters also are
                   preserved from the Duke to his chancellor, reciting
                   that a large sum was to be paid to the English, and
                   in particular a hundred crowns of gold were to be
                   paid to John Seurmaistre, chancellor of the Duke of
                   Clarence, who was going to Rome on the affairs of
                   the Duke of Clarence. This bears date, Blois, Nov.
                   20, 1412. His mission to Rome was, no doubt, to
                   negociate for the dispensation necessary to enable
                   the Duke to marry his uncle's widow. In the March
                   of the next year, the same document acquaints us
                   with the present of a head-dress from the Duke of
                   Orleans to that lady, then Duchess of Clarence.]

CHAPTER XIII.

1412-1413.

Two other accusations brought against the fair fame of Henry of Monmouth in reference to his
conduct in the very year before his accession to the throne, must be now carefully weighed.
The first, indeed, is fully refuted by the selfsame page of our records which contains it:
the second, unless some new light could be thrown upon this dark and mysterious page of his
life, can scarcely have failed to make an unfavourable impression on the minds of every one
whose heart has ever felt the bond of filial duty and affection.

With regard to the first accusation, we cannot do better than quote the words of the antiquary
who has first brought both the calumnious charge and its refutation to light. "The general
impression        (p. 279) (says that writer) which exists respecting the character of Henry
V, and especially whilst Prince of Wales, is so opposed to the idea that he could possibly
be suspected of a pecuniary fraud, that it excites surprise that he should have been accused
of appropriating to his own use the money which he had received for the payment of his soldiers.
In the Minutes of the Council, between July and September 1412, the following entry occurs:
'Because my lord the Prince, Captain of the town of Calais, is slandered in the said town and
elsewhere, that he should have received many large sums of money for the payment of his soldiers,
and that those sums have not been distributed among them, the contrary is proved by two rolls
of paper being in the council, and sent by my said lord the Prince; it is ordered that letters
be issued under the privy seal, explanatory of the fact respecting the Prince in that matter.'"

Although it may excite our wonder that the character of Henry of Monmouth should have been
assailed for appropriating to other purposes money received for the payment of his troops,
yet such an acquaintance with the exhausted state of the treasury of England at that day, as
even these pages afford, will diminish the surprise.[276] The probability is, that, of the
"large sums" voted by parliament,     (p. 280) a very small proportion only was immediately
forthcoming; and that, as in Wales, so in Calais, he could with great difficulty gather from
that exhausted source enough from time to time to keep his men together. Persons not acquainted
with this fact, hearing of the large sums voted, might naturally suspect that there was not
altogether fair and upright dealing. However, the above extract is the only document known
on the subject; and the same sentence which records the "slander," contains also his acquittal.
He had forwarded his debtor and creditor account in two rolls, and by them it was proved that
the slander was unfounded; and a writ of privy seal declaring his innocence was immediately
issued. The fact is, that, at that very time, there was due to the Prince for Calais no less
a sum than 8689l. 12s.; besides the sum of 1200l. due for the wages of sixty men-at-arms and
one hundred and twenty archers, who were still living at Kymmere and Bala for the safeguard
of Wales; whilst the council at the same time declared, that they knew not how to raise the
money for the wages of the men who were with the Prince. The affairs of Calais seem to have
fallen into some confusion before the Prince was appointed Captain, as the Minutes of Council
speak of the ancient debts incurred whilst the Earl of Somerset was captain, as well as the
more recent expenses; and record that Robert Thorley, the treasurer, and Richard Clitherowe,
victualler, were charged to come, with     (p. 281) their accounts written out, on the morrow
of All Souls next ensuing, specifying the persons to whom the several sums were paid, and the
dates of payment. The King, also, in a council at Merton, on October 21st, orders certain changes
to be made in the mode of collecting the duties on skins and wools; "to the intent that my
lord the Prince, as Captain of the town of Calais, may the more readily receive payment of
the arrears due to him and his soldiers, living there for the safeguard of the said town."
We have seen that, in Wales, the Prince was driven by necessity to pawn the few jewels in his
possession, in order to pay the soldiers under him; and, as Captain of Calais, he appears to
have had a great difficulty in obtaining payment of the sums assigned to him.[277] No one can
any longer wonder that the soldiers were not paid, or that their complaints should offer themselves
in the form of accusation. The Prince stands entirely free from blame, and clear of all suspicion
of misdoing.

                   [Footnote 276: The Prince's appointment (when he
                   took charge of the town) is dated March 18, 1410,
                   which was the Tuesday before Easter; at which time
                   there was due a debt, incurred before Henry had
                   anything whatever to do with Calais, of not less
                   than 9000l.--Minutes of Council, 30th July 1410.]

                   [Footnote 277: Within a year of the Prince's
                   accession to the throne, the Pell Rolls, January
                   27, 1414, record the payment of 826l. 13s.
                   4d. to the Bishop of Winchester, lent to the King
                   when he was Prince of Wales.]

Though these causes are of themselves more than enough to account for the depressed state of
Henry of Monmouth's finances; yet there was another drain, the pecuniary difficulties of his
father, which, though hitherto unnoticed, must not be suppressed in these Memoirs.       (p.
282) It is not necessary more than to refer to the causes of the pecuniary difficulties of
Henry IV; as the public and authentic documents of his reign suggest a suspicion of want of
economy in his more domestic expenditure, and leave no doubt as to the extent to which he endeavoured
to meet his increasing wants by loans from spiritual and municipal bodies, as well as from
individuals. Among others, his son Henry's name occurs, not once or twice, but repeatedly.
Whilst some loans, with reference to the then value of money, must be considered large; others
cannot fail to excite surprise from the smallness of their amount.[278]

                   [Footnote 278: Pell Rolls, 9 Hen. IV. 17th July,
                   &c.]

       *       *       *       *       *

A charge, however, more vitally affecting Henry's character than any other by which it has
ever been assailed, requires now a patient and thorough investigation. The groundwork, indeed,
upon which the accusation is built, is of great antiquity, though the superstructure is of
very recent date. Were it sufficient for a biographer, who would deal uprightly, merely to
contradict the evidence by demonstrating its inconsistency with indisputable facts, the business
of refutation in this instance would be brief, as the accusation breaks down in every particular,
from whatever point of view we may examine it. But the province of these Memoirs must not be
so confined. To establish the truth in these points satisfactorily, as well as to place clearly
(p. 283) before the mind the total inadequacy of the evidence to substantiate the charge, will
require a more full and detailed examination of the value of the Manuscript on which the charge
is made to rest, than could be conveniently introduced into the body of this narrative. The
whole is therefore reserved for the Appendix; and to a careful, dispassionate weighing of the
arguments there adduced, the reader is earnestly invited.

But the Author, as he has above intimated, does not think his duty would be performed were
he merely to prove that the charge against Henry is altogether untenable upon the evidence
adduced; though that is all which the accusation so unsparingly now in these late years brought
against him requires or deserves. The very allusion to such an offence as undutiful, unfilial
conduct in one whose life is otherwise an example of obedience, respect, and affection towards
his father, requires the biographer to take up the province of inquisitor, and ascertain what
ground there may be, independently of that inadequate evidence alleged by others, for believing
Henry to have once at least, and for a time, forgotten the duties of a son; or what proceedings,
not involving his guilt, might have given rise to the unfounded rumour, and of what satisfactory
explanation they may admit.

The charge is this: That, in the parliament held in November 1411, Prince Henry desired of
his father the resignation of his crown, on the plea that the malady under which the King was
suffering        (p. 284) would not allow him to rule any longer for the honour and welfare
of the kingdom. On the King's firm and peremptory refusal, the Prince, greatly offended, withdrew
from the court, and formed an overwhelming party of his own among the nobility and gentry of
the land, "associating them to his dominion in homage and pay." Such is the statement made
(not indeed in the form of an accusation, but merely as one of the occurrences of the year,)
in the manuscript above referred to. The modern comment upon this text would probably never
have been made, if the writer had given more time and patient investigation to the subject;
and now, were such a suppression compatible with the thorough sifting of Henry's character
and conduct, the quotation of it might well have been spared in these pages. A few words, however,
on that comment, and recently renewed charge, seem indispensable. "The King's subsequent death
(such are the words of the modern historian) prevented the final explosion of this unfilial
conduct, which, as thus stated, deserves the denomination of an unnatural rebellion; and shows
that the dissolute companion of Falstaff was not the gay and thoughtless youth which his dramatic
representation exhibits to us, but that, amid his vicious gaieties, he could cherish feelings
which too much resemble the unprincipled ambition of a Catilinarian temper."[279]

                   [Footnote 279: Turner's History.]

These are hard words; and, if deserved, must condemn Henry of Monmouth. That they are not deserved;
that he was not guilty of this offence (p. 285) against God and his father; that the page which
records it condemns itself, and is contradictory to our undisputed public records; that the
manuscript which contains the charge carries with it no authority whatever; and that the inference
which has lately been fastened upon the original report is altogether inconsistent with the
acknowledged facts of the case, are points which the Author believes he has established beyond
further controversy in the Appendix; and to that dissertation he again with confidence refers
the reader. But every reader whose verdict is worth receiving, will agree that our abhorrence
of a crime should only increase our care and circumspection that no innocent person stand charged
with it. If Henry were guilty, his character must remain branded with an indelible stain, in
the estimation of every parent and every child, incomparably more disgraceful than those "vicious
gaieties" with which poets and historiographers have delighted to stamp his memory.--At a time
when disease was paralysing all a father's powers of body and mind, and hurrying him prematurely
to the grave, that a first-born son, instead of devoting himself, and all his heart, and all
his faculties, to his parent; strengthening his feeble hands, supporting his faltering steps,
guiding his erring counsels, bearing his heavy burden, protecting him from the machinations
of the malicious and designing, cheering his drooping spirits, making (as far as in him lay)
his   (p. 286) last days on earth days of peace, and comfort, and calm preparation for the
change to which he was hastening;--instead of this, that a son, who had always professed respect
and affection for his father, should thrust the most painful thorn of all into the side of
a sinking, broken down, dying man, is so abhorrent from every feeling, not only of a truly
noble and generous spirit, but of mere ordinary humanity,--is so utterly "unprincipled," "unfilial,"
and "unnatural,"--that though in such a case we might hope, after a life of sincere Christian
penitence, the stain might have been removed from his conscience; yet, in the estimation of
the wise and good, he could never have obtained the name of "the most excellent and most gracious
flower of Christian chivalry."

Although for the real merits of the question, as far as relates to the manuscript, we refer
to the argument in the Appendix; and although, if the foundation of original documents be withdrawn,
it matters little to the investigator of the truth what superstructure modern writers have
hastily run up; yet such a positive assertion as that "the King's subsequent death prevented
the final explosion of this unfilial conduct and unnatural rebellion" of the Prince, who cherished
"feelings resembling the unprincipled ambition of a Catilinarian temper," does seem to call
for a few words before we proceed with the narrative. It is difficult to say whether the confused
views of the manuscript, or of its modern commentator, be the greater. The      (p. 287) manuscript,
(to mention here only one specimen of its confusion,) in the very page which contains the accusing
passage, represents the expedition to France in the summer of 1411; the battle of St. Cloud,
which was fought November 10, of the same year; the expedition under the Duke of Clarence,
which was undertaken after Midsummer 1412; and the return of the Duke and his forces to England,
which was not till the spring of 1413, as having all taken place in the thirteenth year of
Henry IV. And the commentator who tells us that the King's death prevented the final explosion
of Henry's unfilial conduct, by confounding (as the manuscript had also done) the parliament
in November 1411, with the parliament in February 1413, has entirely overlooked the facts which
give a direct contradiction to his statement. The King's death did not occur till March 1413,
more than a year and a quarter after the parliament ended in which the Prince is said to have
been guilty of this act. The session of that parliament began on the 3rd of November, and broke
up on the 20th of December; and the King, nearly half a year after its dissolution, declares
his fixed[280] purpose, in order to avoid the spilling of human blood, to go in his own   
(p. 288) person to the Duchy of Guienne, and vindicate his rights with all possible speed."[281]
Surely the web of his father's life left Henry no lack of time and opportunity for the execution
of any measures which the most reckless ambition could devise, or the most "Catilinarian" temper
sanction. But, leaving this ill-advised statement without further observation, it remains for
us to proceed with our narrative, entirely free from any apprehensions or misgivings that our
researches and reflections may tend only to elucidate the character of one who, in the midst
of splendid sins, would sacrifice his own father to unbounded, reckless ambition, and unprincipled
self-aggrandizement.

                   [Footnote 280: This resolution of the King is
                   embodied in his letter to the Burgomasters of
                   Ghent, &c. dated May 16, 1412; in which he tells
                   them that the Dukes of Berry, Orleans, and Bourbon
                   had offered to surrender to him such lands of his
                   as they held in the Duchy of Guienne, and to assist
                   him in recovering the remainder. He prays the
                   Burgomasters not to impede him in his designs.]

                   [Footnote 281: On the 18th of April 1412, a warrant
                   was issued to press sailors for the King's intended
                   voyage.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Henry of Monmouth had now for a long time been virtually in possession of the royal authority.
He was not only President of the Council, but his name is united with the King's when both
are present; and everything seems to have proceeded smoothly, with the best feelings of mutual
confidence and kindness between himself, his father, and his brothers. Whether the King's own
inclination, uninfluenced by the representations of his parliament, would have led him to put
the reins of government into his son's hand, or whether he was induced by the complaints  
(p. 289) and urgent suggestions of the council (of which many broad and deep vestiges remain
on record) to transfer the executive and legislative functions of the royal prerogative to
a son in whom the people had entire confidence, may admit of much doubt. Probably both causes,
his own increasing infirmities, and his people's dissatisfaction at the mismanagement of the
court, expressed in no covert language, co-operated in producing that result. Hardyng (as he
first wrote on this subject) would lead us to adopt the former view:

  "The King fell sick then, each day more and more;
   Wherefore the Prince he made (as it was seen)
   Chief of Council, to ease him of his sore;
   Who to the Duke of Burgoyne sent, I ween;"

whilst the petitions presented to him, and some subsequent events which must hereafter be noticed,
make us suspect that the behaviour of the Commons might have hastened his resolution.

At the close of the year, (from recounting the transactions of which this serious charge against
Henry's character induced us to digress,) the parliament met in the first week in November.
It was to have been opened on the morrow of All Souls, (November 3, 1411,) but the peers and
commoners were so tardy in their arrival, that the King postponed his meeting the parliament
till the next day. In those times, the monarch seems to have been in the habit of attending
the           (p. 290) parliamentary deliberations, and receiving the petitions, and taking
part generally in the proceedings in person. Through this session Henry IV. was repeatedly
present; and the Prince alone, of all his sons, appears to have attended also. Towards the
close of this parliament, (the very parliament in which the alleged unfilial conduct of the
Prince is represented to have occurred,) proceedings are recorded, which, though referred to
in the Appendix for the sake of the argument, seem to require notice here also in the way of
narration. This the King remembered well, and   (p. 291) thanked them most graciously. The
question unavoidably forces itself upon the mind of every one.--Could such a transaction as
that, by which the fair fame of the Prince is attempted to be destroyed for ever, have taken
place in this parliament? It may be deemed superfluous to add, that, though the records of
this parliament are very full and minute, not the most distant allusion occurs to any such
conduct of the Prince.

                   [Footnote 282: Sir Robert Cotton, in his
                   Abridgement of the Rolls of Parliament, seems to
                   think (though without assigning any reason) that
                   the "thanks were for well employing the treasure
                   granted in the last parliament."]

But whilst, as we have seen, there had arisen much discontent      (p. 292) among the people
with regard to the royal expenditure and the government of the King's household, the King in
his turn had entertained feelings of dissatisfaction towards his parliament; in consequence,
no doubt, of the plain and unreserved manner in which they had given utterance to their sentiments.
When two parties are thus on the eve of a rupture, there never are wanting spirits of a temper
(from the mere love of evil, or in the hope of benefiting themselves,) to foment the rising
discord, and fan the smoking fuel into a flame. Such was the case in this instance, and such
(as we shall soon see) was the case also in a course of proceedings far more closely united
with the immediate subject of these Memoirs. On the same day, the last of the parliament, the
Lords and Commons, addressing the King by petition, express their grief at the circulation
of a report that he was offended on account of some matters done in this and the last parliament;
and they pray him "to declare that he considers each and every of those in the estates of parliament
to be loyal and faithful subjects," which petition the King of his especial grace in full parliament
granted. This submission on the part of the parliament, and its gracious acceptance by the
King, seem to have allayed, at least for a time, all hostile feeling between them.

The prayer of the parliament to the King, that he would express his own and the nation's thanks
to the Prince and the other members of his council, has been thought to imply some suspicion
on their part    (p. 293) that the royal favour was withdrawn from the Prince, that the King
was jealous of his influence, and was therefore backward in publicly acknowledging his obligations
to his son. Be this as it may, two points seem to press themselves on our notice here:--first,
that up to the May of the following year, 1412, no appearance is discoverable of any coolness
or alienation of regard and confidence between the Prince and the King;--the second point is,
that it is scarcely possible to read the disjointed records of the intervening months between
the spring of that year and the next winter, without a strong suspicion suggesting itself,
that the cordial harmony with which the royal father and his son had lived was unhappily interrupted
for a time, and that misunderstandings and jealousies had been fostered to separate them. The
subject is one of lively interest, and, though involved in much mystery, must not be disposed
of without investigation; and, whilst we claim at the hands of others to "set down nought in
malice," we must "nothing extenuate," nor allow any apprehension of consequences to suppress
or soften the very truth. The Author feels himself bound to state not only the mere details
of facts from which inferences might be drawn, but to offer unreservedly his own opinion, formed
upon a patient research, and an honest weighing of whatever evidence he may have found. The
results of his inquiries, after    (p. 294) looking at the point in all the bearings in which
his own reflections or the suggestions of others have placed it, is this:

Henry of Monmouth was assigned on the 12th of May 1407, with the consent of the council, to
remain about the person of the King, that he might devote himself more constantly to the public
service; probably the declining health of the King even then made such a measure desirable.
From the hour when the Prince became president of the council, his influence through every
rank of society naturally grew very rapidly, and extended to every branch of the executive
government. Petitions were presented to him by name, not only by inferior applicants, but even
by his brothers. Letters of recommendation were addressed to him by foreigners; and, in more
than one instance, his interest was sought even by the Pope himself. When the King was personally
present in the council, the record states, that the business was conducted "in the presence
of the King, and of his son the Prince." The father retained the name, the son exercised the
powers of sovereign. Such pre-eminence, as long as human nature remains the same, will give
offence to some, and will engender envyings and jealousies and oppositions: nor was the Prince
suffered long to enjoy his high station unmolested. Who were the persons more especially engaged
in the unkind office of severing the father from his son, is matter of conjecture; so is also
the immediate cause and occasion of their disunion. One of the oldest chroniclers[283] would
induce us to believe that a      (p. 295) temporary estrangement was effected in consequence
of some malicious detractors having misrepresented the Prince's conduct with reference to the
Dukes of Burgundy and Orleans. Some may suspect that the appointment of his brother Thomas
to take the command of the troops in the expedition to Guienne, when their father's increasing
malady prevented him from putting into execution his design of conducting that campaign in
person, might have given umbrage to the Prince, and led to an open rupture. And undoubtedly
it would have been only natural, had the Prince felt that, in return for all his labours and
his devoted exertions in the field and at the council-board, the honourable post of commanding
the armament to Guienne should have been assigned to him as the representative of his diseased
parent.[284] But, perhaps, this was not in his thoughts at all. Certainly no    (p. 296) trace
in our histories or public documents is discoverable of any coolness or distance[285] prevailing
afterwards between himself and his brother Thomas, as though he regarded him as a rival and
supplanter. Hardyng (the two editions of whose poem, brought out at distant times, and under
different auspices, in many cases give a very different colouring to the same transaction,)
represents the time of the Prince's dismissal from the council, and the temporary quarrel between
him and his father, to have followed soon after the return of the English soldiers sent to
aid the Duke of Burgundy. His second edition, however, paints in more unfavourable colours
the opposition of the Prince to his father, and sinks that voluntary return to filial obedience
and regard which his first edition had described in expressions implying praise. In the Lansdowne
manuscript, or first edition, an original marginal note directs the reader to observe "How
the King and the Prince fell at great discord, and soon accorded."

                   [Footnote 283: Elmham.]

                   [Footnote 284: It may, moreover, be very fairly
                   conjectured that the presence of the Prince at home
                   was regarded by the people as far too important at
                   this time to admit of his leaving the kingdom on
                   such an expedition. It will be remembered that one
                   of the first requests made by the parliament on the
                   accession of his father was, that the Prince's
                   life, and the welfare of the nation, might not be
                   hazarded by his departure out of the kingdom; and
                   subsequently, on his own accession, one of the
                   first recommendations of his council was that he
                   would remain in or near London. It is very probable
                   that a similar wish might have interposed, had he,
                   and not his brother, been commissioned to conduct
                   the expedition to Guienne. Calais was so identified
                   with the kingdom of England that his residence
                   there is no exception to the rule.]

                   [Footnote 285: In the Sloane manuscript, indeed,
                   we are told that on a pecuniary dispute arising
                   between Henry Beaufort, Bishop of Winchester, and
                   Thomas Duke of Clarence, with reference to the will
                   of the late Duke of Exeter, brother of the Bishop,
                   who was his executor, and whose widow the Duke of
                   Clarence had married, the Prince took part with the
                   Bishop, and so the Duke of Clarence failed of
                   obtaining his full demand.]

  "Then came they home with great thanks and reward,               (p. 297)
   So, of the Duke of Burgoyne without fail.
   Soon after then (befel it afterward)
   The Prince was then discharged of counsaile.
   His brother Thomas then, for the King's availe,
   Was in his stead then set by ordinance,
   For which the Prince and he fell at distance.
   With whom the King took part, in great sickness,
   Again[st] the Prince with all his excellence.
   But with a rety of lords and soberness
   The Prince came into his magnificence
   Obey, and hole with all benevolence
   Unto the King, and fully were accord
   Of all matters of which they were discord."

In his later publication, the same writer gives a very different colouring to the whole proceeding
on the part of the Prince; robbing him of his hearty good-will towards reconciliation, and
representing his return to a right understanding with his father as the result rather of defeat
and compulsion; but this was at a time when the star of the house of Lancaster had set, and
when the house of York was in the ascendant.

  "The King discharged the Prince from his counsail,
   And set my lord Sir Thomas in his stead
   Chief of council, for the King's more avail.
   For which the Prince, of wrath and wilful head,
   Again[st] him made debate and froward head;
   With whom the King took part, and held the field
   To time the Prince unto the King him yield."

Either of these representations of Hardyng will fully account for Shakspeare's

  "Thy place in council thou hast rudely lost,                     (p. 298)
   Which by thy younger brother is supplied:"[286]

though the poet, by fixing the interview between Henry and his father before the battle of
Shrewsbury, has made the expulsion of the Prince from the council precede his original admission
into it by four years, and his withdrawal from it by at least eight or nine years. It must
here be remarked, that no historical document records the presence of Thomas Duke of Clarence
as a member of the council-board: though, at the same time, the records in which we might have
expected to find his presence registered, by observing a similar silence with regard to the
Prince, seem to leave little doubt that Henry had ceased to attend the board a year before
his father's death. Some strong though obscure passages, moreover, in the Chronicles of the
time, would go far to suggest the probability of a demonstration of his power and        (p.
299) influence through the country having actually taken place on the part of the Prince. Thus
the Chronicle of London records, that "on the last day of June the Prince came to London with
much people and gentles, and remained in the Bishop of Durham's house till July 11th. And the
King, who was then at St. John's house, removed to the Bishop of London's palace, and thence
to his house at Rotherhithe."[287] But the Chronicle suggests no reason for these movements
and ambiguous proceedings. Thus, too, on the 23rd of September, the mere fact is stated that
"Prince Henry came to the council with a huge people," supplying no clue as to the meaning
and intention of the concourse. It cannot, moreover, escape observation, that, though the King
held a council at Rotherhithe on the 8th and on the 10th of July, the Prince was not present:
on the 9th, also, when his brother Thomas was     (p. 300) created Duke of Clarence and Earl
of Albemarle, though the Bishop of Durham, at whose house the Prince was staying, witnessed
the creation, the Prince was not himself one of the witnesses. This circumstance, indeed may
be so interpreted as to remove all idea of open hostility prevailing at that time between the
King and the Prince. The prelate, it may fairly be supposed, would scarcely have been a welcome
attendant at Rotherhithe, if he were showing all kind and free hospitality to a rebellious
son, who was acting at that very time in menacing defiance of his father, and evincing by the
demonstration of his numerous and powerful friends the fixed purpose of avenging himself for
whatever insults he might believe himself to have received from the court party.

                   [Footnote 286: A passage which the Author has
                   lately discovered in the Pell Roll, 18th February
                   1412, will not admit of any other interpretation
                   than that the Prince, at the date of payment, had
                   ceased to be of the King's especial council.
                   Members of that board (as appears by various
                   entries) were paid for their attendance. In the
                   Easter Roll, for example, of the previous year,
                   payment on that ground "to the King's brother, the
                   Bishop of Winchester," is recorded. The payment to
                   the Prince is thus registered: "To Henry Prince of
                   Wales 1000 marks,--666l. 13s. 4d.--ordered by
                   the King to be paid in consideration of the
                   labours, costs, and charges sustained by him at the
                   time when he was of the council of our lord
                   himself the King,"--"tempore quo fuit de consilio
                   ipsius Domini Regis."]

                   [Footnote 287: Perhaps more importance than the
                   reality would warrant has been attached to the
                   circumstance that the King on this occasion went to
                   Rotherhithe, as though he withdrew from his son for
                   safety to so unwonted and retired a place. It was
                   not unusual for Henry IV. to hold his council at
                   Rotherhithe. A year before this muster of the
                   Prince's friends, the instructions given to the
                   Earl of Arundel and others on their embassy to
                   treat with the Duke of Burgundy for a marriage
                   between his daughter and the Prince were signed by
                   the King at Rotherhithe. In these instructions the
                   Prince is mentioned throughout as though he and his
                   father were inseparably united in the issue of the
                   proceeding. "Till the report be made to the King
                   and his very dear son the Prince." "Our lord the
                   King is well disposed, and his very dear son my
                   lord the Prince, to send aid." And Hugh Mortimer,
                   one of the ambassadors, was chamberlain to the
                   Prince.]

Equally in the dark do our records leave us as to the persons who were the fomentors of this
breach between father and son. The oldest historians intimate that there were mischief-makers,
whose malicious designs were for a time successful. Subsequent events (referred to hereafter
in these volumes) compel us to entertain a strong suspicion that the Queen (Johanna) was at
the head of a party resolved, if possible, to check the growing and absorbing interest of her
son-in-law in the national council, to diminish his power, and tarnish his honour.[288] Be
this as it may, there are, to be placed in the (p. 301) opposite scale, facts at which we have
already slightly glanced, seeming to imply that things were going on smoothly between Henry
and his father, even through that brief interval of time about which alone any doubts can be
reasonably entertained.

                   [Footnote 288: Who were the inferior agents in this
                   ungracious and mischievous proceeding we have not
                   discovered. Perhaps, however, the Author would not
                   be justified in suppressing a suspicion which has
                   forced itself on his mind, that, among those who
                   entertained no kind feeling towards the Prince, was
                   Richard Kyngeston, then late Archdeacon of
                   Hereford, for a long time employed in the King's
                   household, and through whose administration the
                   expenses seem to have swollen very much; to control
                   which was one of the principal causes for the
                   appointment of the Prince, the Bishop of
                   Winchester, and others, to be members of the
                   especial council of the King. This suspicion was
                   first suggested by the absence of all allusion to
                   the Prince in the Archdeacon's letters to the King
                   from Hereford in the early years of the Welsh
                   rebellion, though Henry was close at hand; and the
                   very ambiguous expression, "Trust ye nought to no
                   lieutenant," when the Prince himself was virtually,
                   if not already by indenture, Lieutenant of Wales.]

                   [Footnote 289: We have already seen that in the
                   month of May the Prince in his own person (with his
                   brothers) ratifies the league entered into between
                   the King and the Dukes of Orleans, Berry, and
                   Bourbon. Jean le Fevre dates it May 8th, 1412.]

On the whole of this extraordinary and mysterious passage of Henry of Monmouth's life, the
Author must confess that it will be no surprise to him to find (with a mass of other matter
more voluminous and important than we may now anticipate) new evidence affecting Henry's character,
probably to his utter exculpation, possibly to his disadvantage, yet forthcoming from the countless
treasures of unpublished records. Meanwhile, he can now, after a patient examination of all
the books and manuscripts, original documents and subsequent histories, with which it has been
his lot to meet, only return a verdict upon the evidence before him. And the inferences in
which alone he has been able satisfactorily to acquiesce, are these:--First, that, after the
Prince had for some time been most  (p. 303) active and indefatigable President of the Council;
he ceased to retain that office in consequence of a misunderstanding between himself and his
father, fostered by some persons whose interest or malicious pleasure instigated them to so
unworthy an expedient: Secondly, that after a demonstration of his strength in the affections
and devotedness of the people, for the purpose (not of acting with violence or intimidation
towards the King,[290] but) of convincing his enemies that the machinations of jealousy and
detraction would     (p. 304) have no power permanently to blast his reputation, and crush
his influence, the alienation was soon happily terminated by the frank and filial conduct of
the Prince, who as anxiously sought a full reconciliation as his father willingly conceded
it: Thirdly, that, through the last months of his life, the King was free from all uneasiness
and disquietude on that ground; and that the illness which terminated his earthly career, instead
of being aggravated by the Prince's undutiful demeanour, was lightened by his affectionate
attendance; and the dying monarch was comforted by the tender offices of his son.

                   [Footnote 290: Among the conjectures which may
                   suggest themselves as to the possible origin of the
                   manuscripts' charge, that the Prince sought to
                   obtain from his father a resignation of his crown,
                   it might not be unreasonably surmised, nor would
                   the supposition reflect unfavourably at all on
                   Henry's character, that, finding his father to be
                   in the hands of unworthy persons, preying upon his
                   fortune, misdirecting his counsels, rendering the
                   monarch personally unpopular, and bringing the
                   monarchy itself into disrepute, (of all which evils
                   there is strong evidence,) the Prince might have
                   urged on his father the necessity of again
                   intrusting the management of the public weal (which
                   disease had incapacitated him from conducting
                   himself) to the hands of the same counsellors who
                   had before served him and the realm to the
                   acknowledged profit and honour of both. The Prince
                   might, influenced only by the most honest, and
                   upright, and affectionate motives, have professed
                   his willingness to undertake the duties again from
                   which he had (with his colleagues) been as it
                   should seem causelessly discharged. And such a
                   proceeding on his part might easily have been so
                   misrepresented as to constitute the charge
                   contained in the manuscript. The representations of
                   Elmham, to which we have already briefly referred,
                   and which are confirmed by other early writers, are
                   so express with reference to these points, that
                   they seem to require something more than a mere
                   reference in this place. "When his father was
                   suffering under the torture of a grievous sickness,
                   the Prince endeavoured with filial devotedness to
                   meet his wishes in every possible way; and
                   notwithstanding the biting detraction and manifold
                   accusations of some, which (according to the
                   prevalence of common opinion) made efforts to
                   diminish the kind feeling of the father towards his
                   son, the Prince himself, by means of his own most
                   affectionate kindness, succeeded finally in
                   securing with his father favour, grace, and
                   blessing, though those envious persons still
                   resisted it."--Cum idem pater gravissimis
                   ægritudinis incommodis torqueretur, eidem juxta
                   omnem possibilitatem, totis conatibus, filiali
                   obsequio obedivit, et non obstante quorundam
                   detractatione mordaci et accusatione multiplici quæ
                   (prout vulgaris opinio cecinit) paterni favoris in
                   filium moliebantur decrementa, ipse invidis
                   renitentibus, suæ piissimæ benignitatis mediis,
                   apud patrem, favorem, gratiam et benedictionem
                   finaliter consequi merebatur.]

On the whole (allowing for inaccuracies as well of addition as of omission, which, though incapable
of any specific correction, must perhaps exist in so detailed a narrative,) we shall not be
far     (p. 305) from the truth if we accept in its general outline the relation of this event
as we find it in Stowe.

"Henry, the Prince, offended with certain of his father's family, who were said to sow discord
between the father and the son, wrote unto all the parts of the realm, endeavouring himself
to refute all the practices and imaginations of such detractors and slanderous people; and,
to make the matter more manifest to the world, he came to the King, his father, about the Feast
of Peter and Paul, with such a number of his friends and wellwishers, as a greater had not
been seen in those days. He was straightway admitted to his father's presence, of whom this
one thing he besought of him, that if such as had accused him might be convicted of unjust
accusation, they might be punished, not according to their deserts, but yet, after their lies
were proved, they might somewhat taste of that which they had meant, although not to the uttermost.
The which request the King seemed to grant; but he told him that he must tarry a parliament,
that such might be tried and punished by judgment of their peers."[291] Stowe refers to the
work ascribed to Otterbourne, the sentiments of which he faithfully represents, and then proceeds
with the further narrative. "The King had entertained suspicions in consequence of the Prince's
excesses, and the great recourse of people unto him, of which his court      (p. 306) was at
all times more abundant than his father's, that he would presume to usurp the crown; so that,
in consequence of this suspicious jealousy, he withdrew in part his affection and singular
love from the Prince.[292] He was accompanied by a large body of lords and gentlemen; but those
he would not suffer to advance beyond the fire in the hall, in order to remove all suspicion
from his father of any intention to overawe or intimidate him. As soon as the Prince had declared
to his father that his life was not so desirable to him that he would wish to live one day
to his father's displeasure, and that he coveted not so much his own life as his father's pleasure
and welfare, the King embraced the Prince, and with tears addressed him: 'My right dear and
heartily beloved son, it is of truth that I had you partly suspect, and, as I now perceive,
undeserved on your part. I will have you no longer in distrust for any reports that shall be
made unto me. And thereof I assure you upon my honour.' Thus, by his great wisdom, was the
wrongful imagination of his father's hate utterly avoided, and himself restored to the King's
former grace and favour."

                   [Footnote 291: Stowe's Annals.]

                   [Footnote 292: How far we ought to believe the
                   strange story about the Prince visiting his father
                   in a mountebank's disguise, and praying the King to
                   stab him with a dagger which he presented to him,
                   is very problematical. There is much about it, and
                   its circumstances, which gives it the air of great
                   incredibility. Stowe here assumes, without good
                   ground, that the suspicions of the King were
                   excited by Henry's excesses.]

Stowe then reports that after Christmas the King called a          (p. 307) parliament (on
the morrow of the Purification, February 3,) to the end of which he did not survive. During
his illness, which became much worse from about Christmas, he gave most excellent advice to
Henry; the particulars of which, as recorded by Stowe, are probably more the fruits of the
writer's imagination than the faithful transcript of any recorded sentiments. Still the possibility
of their having existed in documents since lost, may perhaps be deemed a sufficient reason
for assigning to them a place in this work.

"'My dear and well-beloved son, I beseech thee, and upon my blessing charge thee, that, like
as thou hast said, so thou minister justice equally, and in no wise suffer them that be oppressed
long to call upon thee for justice; but redress oppressions, and indifferently and without
delay: for no persuasion of flatterers, nor of them that be partial, or such as have their
hands replenished with gifts, defer not justice till to-morrow if that thou mayest do justice
this day, lest peradventure God do justice on thee in the mean time, and take from thee thine
authority. Remember that the wealth of thy body and thy soul and of thy realm resteth in the
execution of justice: and do not thy justice so that thou be called a tyrant; but use thyself
in the middle way between justice and mercy in those things that belong to thee. And between
parties do justice truly, to the consolation of thy poor subjects that suffer injuries, and
to the punishment of       (p. 308) them that be extortioners and doers of oppression, that
others thereby may take example; and in thus doing thou shalt obtain the favour of God, and
the love and fear of thy subjects; and therefore also thou shalt have thy realm more in tranquillity
and rest, which shall be occasion of great prosperity within thy realm, which Englishmen naturally
do desire; for, so long as they have wealth and riches, so long shalt thou have obeisance;
and, when they be poor, then they be always ready at every motion to make insurrections, and
it causeth them to rebel against their sovereign lord; for the nature of them is such rather
to fear losing of their goods and worldly substance, than the jeopardy of their lives. And
if thou thus keep them in subjection, mixed with love and fear, thou shalt have the most peaceable
and fertile country, and the most loving, faithful, and manly people of the world; which shall
be cause of no small fear to thine adversaries. My son, when it shall please God to call me
to the way decreed for every worldly creature, to thee, as my son and heir, I must leave my
crown and my realm; which I advise thee not to take vainly, and as a man elate in pride, and
rejoiced in worldly honour; but think that thou art more oppressed with charge to purvey for
every person within the realm, than exalted by vain honour of the world. Thou shalt be exalted
unto the crown for the wealth and conservation of the realm, and not for thy singular commodity
and avail. My son, thou         (p. 309) shalt be a minister unto thy realm, to keep it in
tranquillity and to defend it. Like as the heart in the midst of the body is principal and
chief thing, and serveth to covet and desire that thing that is most necessary to every of
thy members; so, my son, thou shalt be amongst thy people as chief and principal of them, to
minister, imagine, and acquire those things that may be most beneficial unto them. And then
thy people shall be obedient unto thee, to aid and succour thee, and in all things to accomplish
thy commandments, like as thy ministers labour every one in his office to acquire and get that
thing that thy heart desireth: and as thy heart is of no force, and impotent, without the aid
of thy members, so without thy people thy reign is nothing. My son, thou shalt fear and dread
God above all things; and thou shalt love, honour, and worship him with all thy heart: thou
shalt attribute and ascribe to him all things wherein thou seest thyself to be well fortunate,
be it victory of thine enemies, love of thy friends, obedience of thy subjects, strength and
activeness of body, honour, riches, or fruitful generations, or any other thing, whatever it
be, that chanceth to thy pleasure. Thou shalt not imagine that any such thing should fortune
to thee by thine act, nor by thy desert; but thou shalt think that all cometh only of the goodness
of the Lord. Thus shalt thou with all thine heart praise, honour, and thank God for all his
benefits that he giveth unto thee. And in thyself eschew       (p. 310) all vainglory and elation
of heart, following the wholesome counsel of the Psalmist, which saith, 'Not unto us, O Lord,
not unto us! but unto thy name give the praise!' These, and many other admonitions and doctrines,
this victorious King gave unto this noble Prince his son, who with effect followed the same
after the death of his father, whereby he obtained grace of our Lord to attain to great victories,
and many glorious and incredible conquests, through the help and succour of our Lord, whereof
he was never destitute."

       *       *       *       *       *

For the exquisitely beautiful picture of Shakspeare, called by some 'The Chamber Scene,' by
others 'The Crown Scene,' the materials probably were gathered from Monstrelet, whose narrative
is the only evidence we now have of the incident. That narrative, indeed, is not contradicted
by any other account; still its authenticity is very questionable. It is, perhaps, impossible
not to entertain a suspicion that a French writer would, without much enquiry, admit an anecdote
by which Henry IV. is made to disclaim all title to the English throne, and, by immediate consequence,
all title to the English possessions in the fair realm of France. It is also improbable either
that Henry IV. would have uttered this sentiment in the presence of a witness, or that his
son would have made it known to others. Monstrelet's anecdote, nevertheless, being the source
of so inimitable a        (p. 311) scene as Shakspeare has drawn from it, deserves a place
here: "The King's attendant, not perceiving him to breathe, concluded he was dead, and covered
his face with a cloth. The crown was then upon a cushion near the bed. The Prince, believing
his father to be dead, took away the crown. Shortly after, the King uttered a groan, and revived;
and, missing his crown, sent for his son, and asked why he had removed it. The Prince mentioned
his supposition that his father had died. The King gave a deep sigh, and said, 'My fair son,
what right have you to it? you knew I had none.'--'My lord,' replied Henry, 'as you have held
it by right of your sword, it is my intent to hold and defend it the same during my life.'
The King answered, 'Well, all as you see best; I leave all things to God, and pray that he
will have mercy on me.' Shortly after, without uttering another word, he expired."[293]

                   [Footnote 293: Monstrelet, viii.]

Henry IV. expired on Monday, March 20, 1413; and his remains were taken to Canterbury, and
there interred near the grave of his first wife. Clement Maidstone[294] testifies to his having
heard a man swear to his father, that he threw the body into the Thames between Barking and
Gravesend; but, on a late investigation, under the superintendence of members of the cathedral,
the body was found still to be in the coffin, proving the falsehood of this foolish story.[295]
(p. 312) The funeral was celebrated with great solemnity; and Henry V. attended in person to
assist in paying this last homage of respect to the earthly remains of his sovereign and father.

                   [Footnote 294: Anglia Sacra, vol. ii. p. 371.]

                   [Footnote 295: Archæologia.]

CHAPTER XIV.

The hour of his father's death having been fixed upon as the date of Henry's reputed conversion
from a career of thoughtless dissipation and reckless profligacy to a life of religion and
virtue, this may appear to be the most suitable place for a calm review of his previous character
and conduct.

In the very threshold of our inquiry, perhaps the most remarkable circumstance to be observed
is this, that whilst the charges now so unsparingly and unfeelingly brought against his character,
rest solely on the vague, general, and indefinite assertions of writers, (many of whom appear
to aim at exalting his repentance into somewhat approaching a miraculous conversion,) no one
single act of violence,[296] intemperance, injustice, immorality, or even        (p. 314) levity
of any kind, religious or moral, is placed upon record. Either sweeping and railing accusations
are alleged, unsubstantiated by proof or argument; or else his subsequent repentance is cited
to bear testimony to his former misdoings. Voluptuousness, ambition, superstition, each in
their turn had the ascendant in this extraordinary character." Thus does another sum up the
whole question in one short note:[298] "The assertions of his reformation are so express, that
the fact cannot be justly questioned without doubting all history; and, if there were reformation,
there must have been previous errors."[299]

                   [Footnote 296: The story of the Chief Justice, &c.
                   will be examined separately and at length. The
                   charge from Calais of peculation (we have already
                   seen) brought with it its own refutation: whilst
                   the evidence on which alone the charge against him
                   of undutiful conduct towards his father rests is
                   proved to be altogether devoid of credit.]

                   [Footnote 297: Milner, Church History, Cent. XV.]

                   [Footnote 298: Turner, History of England, book ii.
                   ch. x.]

                   [Footnote 299: Rapin, who follows Hall, and gives
                   no better authority, tells us that Prince Henry's
                   court was the receptacle of libertines, debauchees,
                   buffoons, parasites, and the like. The question
                   naturally suggests itself, "Ought not such a writer
                   as Rapin to have sought for some evidence to
                   support this assertion?" Had he sought diligently,
                   and reported honestly, such a sentence as this
                   could never have fallen from his pen. Carte gives a
                   very different view of Henry of Monmouth's court;
                   and a view, as many believe, far nearer the truth.
                   "It was crowded," he says, "by the nobles and great
                   men of the land, when his father's court was
                   comparatively deserted."]

The expressions of Walsingham, (being the same in his History,     (p. 315) and in the work
called "Ypodigma Neustriæ," or "A Sketch of Normandy," which he dedicated to Henry V. himself,)
are considered by some persons to have laid an insurmountable barrier in the way of those who
would remove from Henry's "brow," as Prince, "the stain" of "wildness, riot, and dishonour."
And, doubtless, no one who would discharge the office of an upright judge or an honest witness,
would either suppress or gloss over the passage which is supposed to present these formidable
difficulties, or withdraw from the balance a particle of the full weight which might appear
after examination to belong to that passage as its own. In our inquiry, however, we must be
upon our guard against the fallacy in which too many writers, when handling this question,
have indulged by arguing in a circle. We must not first say, Walsingham bears testimony to
Henry's early depravity, therefore we must believe him to have been guilty; and then conclude,
because tradition fixes delinquency on Henry's early days, therefore Walsingham's passage can
admit only of that interpretation which fixes the guilt upon him. Let Walsingham's text be
fairly sifted upon its own merits; and then, whatever shall appear to have been his       (p.
316) meaning of an adverse nature, let that be added to the evidence against Henry; and let
the whole be put into the scale, and weighed against whatever may be alleged in refutation
of the charges with which his memory has been assailed. It would be the result then of a morbid
deference to the opinions of others, rather than the judgment of his own reasoning, were the
Author to withhold his persuasion that more importance has been assigned to Walsingham's words
than a full and unbiassed scrutiny into their real bearing would sanction. To the judgment
of each individually must this branch of evidence, no less than the entire question of Henry's
moral character, be left. A transcript of Walsingham's words, as they appear in the printed
editions of his History and in the "Ypodigma Neustriæ,"[300] will be found at the foot of the
page.[301] The following is probably      (p. 317) as close a rendering of the original, as
the strangely metaphorical, and in some cases the obscure expressions of Walsingham will bear.
"On which day [of Henry's coronation] there was a very severe storm of snow, all persons marvelling
at the roughness of the weather. Some considered the disturbance of the atmosphere as portending
the new King's destiny to be cold in action, severe in discipline and in the exercise of the
royal functions; others, forming a milder estimate of the person of the King, interpreted this
inclemency of the sky as the best omen, namely, that the King himself would cause the colds
and snows of vices to fall in his reign, and the mild fruits of        (p. 318) virtues to
spring up; so that, with practical truth, it might be said by his subjects, 'The winter is
past, the rain is over and gone.' For verily, as soon as he was initiated with the chaplet
of royalty, he suddenly was changed into another man, studying rectitude, modesty, and gravity,
[or propriety, moderation, and steadiness,] desiring to exercise every class of virtue without
omitting any; whose manners and conduct were an example to persons of every condition in life,
as well of the clergy as of the laity."

                   [Footnote 300: The Author has searched in vain for
                   any contemporary manuscript of Walsingham's
                   "Ypodigma Neustriæ." There is a copy in the British
                   Museum, written up to a certain point on vellum;
                   the latter part, containing these sentences, is on
                   paper, and of comparatively a very recent date,
                   transcribed, as the Author thinks, not from a
                   previous MS. of the Ypodigma, but from a copy of
                   the History. His ground for this inference is the
                   circumstance that the interpolation in the History,
                   as to Edmund Mortimer's death, which is not found
                   in the printed editions of the Ypodigma, occurs in
                   this MS. The MS. on vellum, preserved in the
                   Heralds' College, is a copy of the History,
                   transcribed, as the Author conceives, by a very
                   ignorant copyist. The same interpolation of "Obiit"
                   occurs here also; and, instead of calling the
                   person spoken of Edmund Mortimer, it has "Edmundus
                   mortifer." The Author was very desirous of
                   comparing the original copy of Walsingham's
                   Ypodigma, as dedicated to Henry V, with subsequent
                   transcripts or versions. He entertains a strong
                   suspicion that the sentences here commented upon
                   were not in the original; but, in the absence of
                   the means of ascertaining the matter of fact, he
                   reasons upon them as though they were actually
                   submitted to the eye of Henry himself.]

                   [Footnote 301: "Quo die fuit tempestas nivis
                   maxima, cunctis admirantibus de temporis
                   asperitate; quibusdam novelli Regis fatis
                   impingentibus aeris turbulentiam, velut ipse
                   futurus esset in agendis frigidus, in regimine
                   regnoque severus. Aliis mitiùs de personâ Regis
                   sapientibus, et hanc aeris intemperiem
                   interpretantibus omen optimum, quòd ipse videlicet
                   nives et frigora vitiorum faceret in regno cadere,
                   et serenos virtutum fructus emergere; ut posset
                   effectualiter à suis dici subditis, 'Jam enim hyems
                   transiit, imber abiit et recessit.' Qui reverâ, mox
                   ut initiatus est regni infulis, repente mutatus est
                   in virum alterum, honestati, modestiæ, ac gravitati
                   studens, nullum virtutum genus omittens quod non
                   cuperet exercere. Cujus mores et gestus omni
                   conditioni, tàm religiosorum quàm laicorum, in
                   exempla fuere."]

Unquestionably, from these expressions an inference may be drawn fairly, and without harshness
or exaggeration, that the "changed man" had been in times past negligent of some important
branches of moral duty; vehement, hasty, and impetuous in his general proceedings; and not
considering in his pursuits their fitness for his station and place; in a word, guilty of moral
delinquencies immediately opposed to the virtues enumerated. On the other hand, by specifying
those three moral qualities, (in which this passage is interpreted to imply that Henry's life
had undergone a sudden and total change,--rectitude, modesty, and steadiness,) Walsingham appears
to have selected exactly those identical points, for Henry's full possession of which the parliament
of England had felicitated his father; and which, either separately, or in combination with
other excellencies, continued to be ascribed to him at various times, as occasion offered,
even to     (p. 319) a period within a few months of his accession to the throne. Never did
a young man receive from his contemporaries more unequivocal testimony to the practical exercise
in his person of propriety, modesty, and perseverance, than Henry of Monmouth received before
he became King.

It may be said, and with perfect fairness, that the testimony of parliament to his virtues
so early as the year 1406 leaves a most important chasm in a young man's life, during which
he might have fallen from his integrity, and have rapidly formed habits of the opposite vices.
But through that period no expressions occur in history which even by implication involve any
degeneracy, any change from good to bad. On the contrary, to his zeal and steadiness, and perseverance
and integrity, such incidental testimony is borne from time to time as would of itself leave
a very different impression on the mind from that which Walsingham's words in their usual acceptation
would convey; whilst no allusion whatever is discernible to any habits or practices contrary
to the principles of religious and moral self-government. Indeed, it has been, not without
reason, doubted whether, in the absence of more positive testimony, such sudden changes, first
from good to bad, and then from bad to good, be not in themselves improbable.

On the whole, whilst each must be freely left to pronounce his own verdict, it is here humbly
but sincerely suggested that            (p. 320) Walsingham's words fairly admit of an interpretation
more in accordance with the view of Henry's moral worth generally adopted in these Memoirs;
namely, that his character rose suddenly with the occasion; that new energies were called into
action by his new duties; that his moral and intellectual powers kept on a level with his elevation
to so high a dignity, and with such an increase of power and influence; and that he continued
to excite the admiration of the world by improving rapidly in every excellence, as his awful
sense of the momentous responsibility he then for the first time felt imposed upon him grew
in strength and intenseness. He became "another, a new man," by giving himself up with all
his soul to his new duties as sovereign; and by cultivating with practical devotedness those
virtues which might render him (and which, as Walsingham says, did actually render him) a bright
and shining example to every class of his subjects.[302]

                   [Footnote 302: Hardyng uses this expression:

                         "A new man made in all good regimence."]

Undoubtedly most of the subsequent chroniclers not only speak of his reformation, but broadly
state that he had given himself very great licence in self-gratification, and therefore needed
to be reformed. Before Shakspeare's day, the reports adopted by our historiographers had fully
justified him in his representation of Henry's early courses; and, since his time, few writers
have considered it their duty to verify the exquisite traits of his pencil, or examine    
(p. 321) the evidence on which he rested.

Let the investigator who is resolved not to yield an implicit and blind assent to vague assertion,
however positive, and how often soever repeated, well and truly try for himself the issue by
evidence, and trace Henry from his boyhood; let him search with unsparing diligence and jealous
scrutiny through every authentic document relating to him; let his steps be followed into the
marches, the towns, the valleys, and the mountains of Wales; let him be watched narrowly month
after month during his residence in London, or wherever he happened to be staying with the
court, or in Calais during his captaincy there; and not a single hint occurs of any one irregularity.[303]
The research will bring to light no single expression savouring of impiety, dissoluteness,
carelessness,      (p. 322) or even levity.

                   [Footnote 303: The Author having heard of a
                   reported arrest of the Prince at Coventry for a
                   riot, with his two brothers, in 1412, took great
                   pains to investigate the authenticity of the
                   record. It is found in a manuscript of a date not
                   earlier than James I; whilst the more ancient
                   writings of the place are entirely silent on the
                   subject. The best local antiquaries, after having
                   carefully examined the question, have reported the
                   whole story to the Author as apocryphal.]

Testimony, on the other hand, ample and repeated, as we have already seen in these pages, is
borne to his valour, and unremitting exertions and industry; to his firmness of purpose, his
integrity his filial duty and affection; his high-mindedness (in the best sense of the word),
his generous spirit, his humanity, his habits of mind, so unsuspecting as to expose him often
to the over-reaching designs of the crafty and the unprincipled, his pious trust in Providence,
and habitual piety and devotion. To these, and other excellences in his moral compound, his
father,[304] and his father's antagonist,      (p. 323) Hotspur, the assembled parliament of
England, the common people of Wales, the gentlemen of distant counties, contemporary chroniclers,
(combined with the public records of the kingdom and the internal evidence of his own letters,)
bear direct and unstinted witness. From the first despatch of Hotspur to the last vote of thanks
in parliament, there is a chain of testimonies (detailed in their chronological order in previous
chapters of this work) very seldom equalled in the case of so young a man, and, through so
long a period, perhaps never surpassed. And yet, though he was through the whole of that time
the constant object of observation, and the subject of men's thoughts and words, no complaint
of any neglect of duty arrests our notice, nor is there even an insinuation thrown out of any
excess, indiscretion, or extravagance whatever. Not a word from the tongue of friend or foe,
of accuser or apologist, would induce us to suspect that anything wrong was stifled or kept
back. There are complaints of the extravagant expenditure of his father, and recommendations
of retrenchment and economy in the King's household; but never on any occasion, (even when
the Prince is most urgent and importunate for supplies of money, offering the most favourable
and inviting opportunity for remonstrance or remark), is there the slightest    (p. 324) innuendo
either from the King, the Lords of the council, or the Commons in parliament, that he expended
the least sum unnecessarily.[305] No improper channel of expense, public or private, domestic
or personal, is glanced at; nothing is objected to in his establishment; no item is recommended
to be abolished or curtailed; no change of conduct is hinted at as desirable. And yet subsequent
writers speak with one accord of his reformation; "and reformation implies previous errors."
After examining whatever documents concerning him the most diligent research could discover,
the Author is compelled to report as his unbiassed and deliberate judgment, that the character
with which Henry of Monmouth's name has been stamped for profligacy and dissipation, is founded,
not on the evidence of facts, but on the vagueness of tradition. Still such is the tradition,
and it must stand for its due value. And if we allow tradition to tell us of his faults, we
must in common fairness receive from the same tradition the fullness of his reformation; if
we give credence to one who reports both his guilt and his penitence, we must record both accounts
or neither. Before, however, we repeat what tradition has delivered   (p. 325) down as to Henry's
conduct and behaviour immediately upon his father's death, it may be well for us to review
some of those testimonies to his character, his principles, and his conduct, which incidentally
(but not on that account less acceptably or less satisfactorily) offer themselves to our notice,
scattered up and down through the pages of former days.

                   [Footnote 304: It is not within the province of
                   these Memoirs to record the Will of Henry IV, or to
                   comment upon its provisions. There is, however, one
                   sentence in it, a reference to which cannot be out
                   of place here. In the year 1408, 21st January, a
                   Will, which to the day of his death he never
                   revoked, contains this sentence written in English:
                   "And for to execute this testament well and truly,
                   for the great trust that I have of my son the
                   Prince, I ordain and make him my executor of my
                   testament aforesaid, calling to him such as him
                   thinketh in his discretion that can and will labour
                   to the soonest speed of my will comprehended in
                   this my testament. And to fulfil all things
                   aforesaid truly, I charge my aforesaid son on my
                   blessing." It may deserve consideration whether
                   this clause in a father's last Will, never revoked,
                   be consistent with the idea of his having expelled
                   the son of whom he thus speaks from his council,
                   and banished him his presence; and whether it may
                   not fairly be put in the opposite scale against the
                   vague and unsubstantial assertions of the Prince's
                   recklessness, and his father's alienation from him.
                   It must at the same time be borne in mind that the
                   Will was made before the time usually selected as
                   the period of their estrangement. The Will,
                   nevertheless, was not revoked nor altered in this
                   particular.]

                   [Footnote 305: In a fragment of the records of a
                   council, 6 May 1421, among other former debts not
                   provided for, such as "ancient debts for Harfleur
                   and Calais," occurs one item, "Debts of Henry IV;"
                   and another, "Debts of the King, whilst he was
                   Prince." We have seen that he was more than once
                   compelled to borrow money on his plate and jewels
                   to pay the King's soldiers.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Were we to draw an inference from the summary way in which many modern authors have cut short
the question with regard to Henry of Monmouth's character as Prince of Wales, we should conclude
that all the evidence was on one side; that, whilst "it is unfair to distinguished merit to
dwell on the blemishes which it has regretted and reformed," still no doubt can be entertained
of his having, "from a too early initiation into military life, stooped to practise irregularities
between the ages of sixteen and twenty-five."[306] Whereas the fact is, that no allusion to
such irregularities is made where we might have expected to find it; and that, independently
of those more formal proofs to the contrary which are embodied in these pages, and to which
we have above briefly referred, contemporary writers and undisputed documents supply us with
materials for judging of his temper of mind and early habit,--the character, in short, with
which those who had the best (p. 326) opportunities of knowing him, were wont to associate
his name.

                   [Footnote 306: Turner.]

All accounts agree in reporting him to have been devotedly fond of music. As the household
expenses of his father informed us, he played upon the harp before he was ten years old; nor
does he seem ever to have lost the habit of deriving gratification from the same art. It were
easy to represent him prostituting this love of minstrelsy in the haunts of Eastcheap, and
enjoying "through the sweetest morsel of the night" the songs of impurity in reckless Bacchanalian
revels, self-condemned indeed, and therefore to be judged by others leniently:

        "I feel me much to blame
  So idly to profane the precious time:"[307]

but nevertheless guilty of profaning the sacred art of music in the midst of worthless companions,
and in the very sinks of low and dissolute profligacy. This it were easy to do, and this has
been done. But history lends no countenance to such representations. The chroniclers, who refer
again and again to his fondness for music, tell us that it showed itself in him under very
different associations. "He delighted (as Stowe records) in songs, metres, and musical instruments;
insomuch that in his chapel, among his private prayers he used our Lord's prayer, certain psalms
of David, with divers hymns and canticles, all which I have seen translated into English metre
(p. 327) by John Lydgate, Monk of Bury." In this view we are strongly confirmed by several
items of expense specified in the Pell Rolls, which record sums paid to organists and singers
sent over for the use of Henry's chapel whilst he was in France; but this, being subsequent
to his supposed conversion, cannot be alleged in evidence on the point at issue.[308] It only
shows that his early acquired love of music never deserted him.

                   [Footnote 307: Second Part of Henry IV, act ii. sc
                   4.]

                   [Footnote 308: Pell Rolls, 7 Hen. V. 28th
                   Oct.--Dº. 22nd Nov.]

In this place, moreover, we cannot refrain from anticipating, what might perhaps have been
reserved with equal propriety to a subsequent page, that the same dry details of the Pell Rolls[309]
enable us to infer with satisfaction that Henry made his love of minstrelsy contribute to the
gratification of himself and the partner of his joys and cares, supplying an intimation of
domestic habits and conjugal satisfaction, without which a life passed in the splendour of
royalty must be irksome, and blessed with which the cottage of the poor man possesses the most
enviable treasure. Whether in their home at Windsor, or during their happy progress through
England in the halls of York and Chester, or in the tented ground on the banks of the Seine
before Melun, our imagination has solid foundation to build        (p. 328) upon when we picture
to ourselves Henry and his beloved princess passing innocently and happily, in minstrelsy and
song, some of the hours spared from the appeals of justice, the exigencies of the state, or
the marshalling of the battle-field.

                   [Footnote 309: Pell Rolls, 8 Hen. V. (2nd Oct.
                   1420.) For the price of harps for the King and
                   Queen, 8l. 13s. 4d. A subsequent item (Sept.
                   4, 1421), records payment of 2l. 6s. 8d. for
                   a harp purchased at his command and sent to him in
                   France.]

But that Henry had also imbibed a real love of literature, and valued it highly, we possess
evidence which well deserves attention. He was so much enamoured of the "Tale of Troy divine,"
that he directed John Lydgate, Monk of Bury St. Edmund's, to translate two poems, "The Death
of Hector," and "The Fall of Troy," into English verse, that his own countrymen might not be
behind the rest of Europe in their knowledge of the works of antiquity. The testimony borne
by this author to the character of Henry for perseverance and stedfastness of purpose; for
sound practical wisdom, and, at the same time, for a ready and ardent desire of the counsel
of the wise; for mercy mingled with high and princely resolve and love of justice; for all
those qualities which can adorn a Christian prince,--is so full in itself, and so direct, and
(if honest) is so conclusive, that any memoirs of Henry's life and character would be culpably
defective which should exclude it. The circumstance, also, of that testimony being couched
in the vernacular language of the times, affords another point of interest to the English antiquary.
Sometimes, indeed, we cannot help suspecting that the poem has undergone some verbal and grammatical
alterations in  (p. 329) the course of the four centuries which have elapsed since it was penned;
but that circumstance does not affect its credibility.

