Sir HARRY JOHNSTON has written a book which I find it difficult to define. His publishers and
Mr. H.G. WELLS call it a novel, but bits of a biography and an autobiography and an African
explorer's account of his travels have all somehow squeezed themselves into it, and for readers
whose birthdays began before the last quarter of the nineteenth century The Gay-Dombeys (CHATTO
AND WINDUS) will best justify itself as a chronique scandaleuse. To penetrate the thin disguises
in which the author has dressed his notabilities and to sort the composite or hybrid personalities
into their component parts should provide the initiated with congenial if not very edifying
occupation. The reader who is also a DICKENS enthusiast will be, according to temperament,
delighted or outraged to find that Sir HARRY JOHNSTON has made his book as it were a continuation
of Dombey and Son. Many of his characters are either the creations of Boz or their children
and he contrives to carry on the interweaving of their lives to an unbelievable extent--even
when the fullest allowance has been made for the smallness of the world. Florence Dombey and
Walter Gay, as Mr. and Mrs. Gay-Dombey, actually survive well into the present book, while
Sir HARRY JOHNSTON'S Eustace Morven, who tells us that he has reverted to the ancient spelling
of his name, is the son of Harriet Carker and that hazel-eyed bachelor, Mr. Morfin, who lived
and loved in Dombey and Son. But save in the chapter describing Eustace Morven's appearance
at the annual dinner-party given by Florence and Walter to celebrate the re-establishment of
the firm, Sir HARRY JOHNSTON'S work has not a very pronounced flavour of DICKENS. It is to
be hoped that this method of writing novels will not become popular. A series of sequels to
everybody by somebody else opens up an intimidating prospect, at least for the reviewer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. PHILIP GIBBS has gathered together, under the title. Open Warfare, the Way to Victory (HEINEMANN),
his despatches written from the Western front during the last year of the War. What strikes
one most on seeing them again in book form is the obscurity in which they veil the events they
record. They so shine, as it were, with a luminous mist that they seem to reveal everything,
yet in sober truth very often it is only in the light of later knowledge that they reveal anything
at all. Congratulations, therefore, to Mr. GIBBS, the perfect war correspondent! I defy anyone
from these papers alone (apart from the plentiful and excellent maps) to form anything like
an adequate conception of the disaster that swept down upon the British Armies in the Spring
of 1918. And yet in a sense it is all there, gorgeously camouflaged under the control--I daresay
the wise and necessary control--of the censorship. The author, watching the very moulding of
history with every advantage of proximity, has written down, if not much bare statement, yet
an amazing sequence of heroic detail, associated with such stirring names as Arras or Givenchy
or Cambrai. Curiously enough, though each chapter is intensely vivid, they become, through
much instancing of the same unconquerable spirit, something monotonous, though never wearisome,
in bulk. One trusts that a future generation will realise that the value of a book of this
order consists in its first-hand record of such incidents of valour; it would be pitiful to
have it hastily assumed, because so much is slurred or omitted to deceive the enemy, that England
was so feeble-hearted as to require her evil news predigested before consumption in this manner.
It should be added that the writer gives us a good sound introduction that goes a long way
to fill the yawning gaps.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "GIRL WANTED.--A reliable girl for the summer months to go across
    the Arm."--Halifax Evening Mail.

To prevent misapprehension we ought to say that the western part of the bay at Halifax, Nova
Scotia, is locally known as the "Arm."

       *       *       *       *       *

END.