On Monday the 21st. of March, the Magistrates of Salem appointed to come to Examination of
Goodwife C. And about Twelve of the Clock they went into the Meeting-House, which was thronged
with Spectators. Mr. Noyes began with a very pertinent and pathetical Prayer; and Goodwife
C. being called to answer to what was alledged against her, she desired to go to Prayer, which
was much wondred at, in the presence of so many hundred People: The Magistrates told her, they
would not admit it; they came not there to hear her Pray, but to Examine her, in what was Alledged
against her. The Worshipful Mr. Hathorne asked her, Why she afflicted those Children? She said,
she did not Afflict them. He asked her, who did then? She said, I do not know; How should I
know? The Number of the Afflicted Persons were about that time Ten, viz. Four Married Women,
Mrs. Pope, Mrs. Putman, Goodwife Bibber, and an Ancient Woman, named Goodall; three Maids,
Mary Walcut, Mercy Lewes, at Thomas Putman's, and a Maid at Dr. Griggs's; there were three
Girls from 9 to 12 Years of Age, each of them, or thereabouts, viz. She was a Gospel Woman:
Which Title she called her self by; and the Afflicted Persons told her, Ah! she was A Gospel
Witch. Ann Putman did there affirm, that one day when Lieutenant Fuller was at Prayer at her
Father's House, she saw the shape of Goodwife C. and she thought Goodwife N. Praying at the
same time to the Devil; she was not sure it was Goodwife N. she thought it was; but very sure
she saw the shape of Goodwife C. The said C. said, they were poor distracted Children, and
no heed to be given to what they said. Mr. Hathorne and Mr. Noyes replyed, It was the Judgment
of all that were present, they were Bewitched, and only she the Accused Person said, they were
Distracted. It was observed several times, that if she did but bite her under lip in time of
Examination, the Persons afflicted were bitten on their Arms and Wrists, and produced the Marks
before the Magistrates, Ministers, and others. And being watched for that, if she did but Pinch
her Fingers, or Grasp one Hand hard in another, they were Pinched, and produced the Marks before
the Magistrates, and Spectators. After that, it was observed, that if she did but lean her
Breast against the Seat in the Meeting-House, (being the Bar at which she stood), they were
afflicted. Particularly Mrs. Pope complained of grievous Torment in her Bowels, as if they
were torn out. She vehemently accused the said C. as the Instrument, and first threw her Muff
at her; but that flying not home, she got off her shoe, and hit Goodwife C. on the Head with
it. After these Postures were watched, if the said C. did but stir her Feet, they were afflicted
in their Feet, and stamped fearfully. The afflicted Persons asked her, why she did not go to
the Company of Witches which were before the Meeting-House Mustering? Did she not hear the
Drum beat? They accused her of having Familiarity with the Devil, in the time of Examination,
in the shape of a Black Man whispering in her Ear; they affirmed, that her Yellow Bird sucked
betwixt her Fingers in the Assembly; and Order being given to see if there were any sign, the
Girl that saw it, said, it was too late now; she had removed a Pin, and put it on her Head;
which was found there sticking upright.

They told her, she had Covenanted with the Devil for ten Years, six of them were gone, and
four more to come. She was required by the Magistrates to answer that Question in the Catechism,
How many persons be there in the God-head? She answered it but oddly, yet was there no great
thing to be gathered from it; she denied all that was charged upon her, and said, They could
not prove a Witch; she was that Afternoon Committed to Salem Prison; and after she was in Custody,
she did not so appear to them, and afflict them as before. Be gone! I did something scruple
the reading it, and did let my scruple appear, lest Satan should make any Superstitiously to
improve the Word of the Eternal God. However, tho' not versed in these things, I judged I might
do it this once for an Experiment. I began to read, and before I had near read through the
first Verse, she opened her Eyes, and was well; this Fit continued near half an hour. Her Husband
and the Spectators told me, she had often been so relieved by reading Texts that she named,
something pertinent to her Case; as Isa. 40.1. Isa. 49.1. Isa. 50.1. and several others.

On Thursday the Twenty-Fourth of March, (being in course the Lecture-Day at the Village,) Goodwife.
N. was brought before the Magistrates Mr. Hathorne and Mr. Corwin, about Ten of the Clock in
the Forenoon, to be Examined in the Meeting-House, the Reverend Mr. Hale begun with Prayer,
and the Warrant being read, she was required to give Answer, Why she afflicted those persons?
She pleaded her own Innocency with earnestness. Thomas Putman's Wife, Abigail Williams, and
Thomas Putman's Daughter accused her that she appeared to them, and afflicted them in their
Fits; but some of the others said, that they had seen her, but knew not that ever she had hurt
them; amongst which was Mary Walcut, who was presently after she had so declared bitten, and
cryed out of her in the Meeting-House, producing the Marks of Teeth on her wrist. It was so
disposed, that I had not leisure to attend the whole time of Examination, but both Magistrates
and Ministers told me, that the things alledged by the afflicted, and defences made by her,
were much after the same manner as the former was. And her motions did produce like effects,
as to Biting, Pinching, Brusing, Tormenting, at their Breasts, by her Leaning, and when bended
back, were as if their Backs were broken. The afflicted Persons said, the Black Man whispered
to her in the Assembly, and therefore she could not hear what the Magistrates said unto her.
They said also, that she did then ride by the Meeting-House, behind the Black Man. Thomas Putman's
Wife had a grievous Fit in the time of Examination, to the very great impairing of her strength,
and wasting of her spirits, insomuch as she could hardly move hand or foot when she was carried
out. This Woman also was that day committed to Salem Prison. The Magistrates and Ministers
also did inform me, that they apprehended a Child of Sarah G. and examined it, being between
4 and 5 years of Age. And as to matter of Fact, they did unanimously affirm, that when this
Child did but cast its Eye upon the afflicted Persons, they were tormented; and they held her
Head, and yet so many as her Eye could fix upon were afflicted. Which they did several times
make careful Observation of: The afflicted complained, they had often been Bitten by this Child,
and produced the marks of a small set of teeth accordingly; this was also committed to Salem
Prison, the Child looked hail, and well as other Children. I saw it at Lieut. Ingersol's. After
the Commitment of Goodw. N. Tho. Putman's Wife was much better, and had no violent Fits at
all from that 24th. of March, to the 5th. of April. Some others also said they had not seen
her so frequently appear to them, to hurt them.

On the 25th. of March (as Capt. Stephen Sewal of Salem did afterwards inform me) Eliz. Paris
had sore Fits at his House, which much troubled himself, and his Wife, so as he told me they
were almost discouraged. She related, that the great Black Man came to her, and told her, if
she would be ruled by him, she should have whatsoever she desired, and go to a Golden City.
She relating this to Mrs. Sewal, she told the Child, it was the Devil, and he was a Lyar from
the Beginning, and bid her tell him so, if he came again: which she did accordingly, at the
next coming to her, in her Fits. It said no, its Mother gave it.

The 31 of March there was a Publick Fast kept at Salem on account of these Afflicted Persons.

The 3d of April, the Lord's-day, being Sacrament-day, at the Village, Goodw. C. upon Mr. Parris's
naming his Text, John 6.70. One of them is a Devil, the said Goodw. C. went immediately out
of the Meeting-House, and flung the Door after her violently, to the amazement of the Congregation.
She was afterwards seen by some in their Fits, who said, O +Goodw. C.+ I did not think to see
you here! (and being at their Red bread and drink) said to her, Is this a time to receive the
Sacrament, you ran away on the Lord's-Day, and scorned to receive it in the Meeting-House,
and, Is this a time to receive it? I wonder at you! This is the sum of what I either saw my
self, or did receive Information from persons of undoubted Reputation and Credit.

REMARKS OF THINGS MORE THAN ORDINARY ABOUT THE

AFFLICTED PERSONS.

1. They are in their Fits tempted to be Witches, are shewed the List of the Names of others,
and are tortured, because they will not yeild to Subscribe, or meddle with, or touch the BOOK,
and are promised to have present Belief if they would do it.

2. They did in the Assembly mutually Cure each other, even with a Touch of their Hand, when
Strangled, and otherwise Tortured; and would endeavour to get to their Afflicted, to relieve them.

3. They did also foretel when anothers Fit was a-coming, and would say, Look to her! she will
have a Fit presently, which fell out accordingly, as many can bear witness, that heard and saw it.

4. That at the same time, when the Accused Person was present, the Afflicted Persons saw her
Likeness in other places of the Meeting-House, suckling her Familiar, sometimes in one place
and posture, and sometimes in another.

5. That their Motions in their Fits are Preternatural, both as to the manner, which is so strange
as a well person could not Screw their Body into; and as to the violence also it is preternatural
being much beyond the Ordinary force of the same person when they are in their right mind.

6. The eyes of some of them in their fits are exceeding fast closed, and if you ask a question
they can give no answer, and I do believe they cannot hear at that time, yet do they plainely
converse with the Appearances, as if they did discourse with real persons.

7. They are utterly pressed against any persons Praying with them, and told by the appearances,
they shall not go to Prayer, so Tho. Putman's wife was told, I should not Pray; but she said,
I should: and after I had done, reasoned with the Appearance, Did not I say he should go to Prayer.

8. The forementioned Mary W. being a little better at ease, the Afflicted persons said, she
had signed the Book; and that was the reason she was better. Told me by Edward Putman.

REMARKS CONCERNING THE ACCUSED.

1. For introduction to the discovery of those that afflicted them, It is reported Mr. Parris's
Indian Man, and Woman, made a Cake of Rye Meal, and the Childrens water, baked it in the Ashes,
and gave it to a Dog, since which they have discovered, and seen particular persons hurting
of them.

2. In Time of Examination, they seemed little affected, though all the Spectators were much
grieved to see it.

3. Natural Actions in them produced Preternatural actions in the Afflicted, so that they are
their own Image without any Poppits of Wax or otherwise.

4. That they are accused to have a Company about 23 or 24 and they did Muster in Armes, as
it seemed to the Afflicted Persons.

5. Since they were confined, the Persons have not been so much Afflicted with their appearing
to them, Biteing or Pinching of them &c.

6. They are reported by the Afflicted Persons to keep dayes of Fast and dayes of Thanksgiving,
and Sacraments; Satan endeavours to Transforme himself to an Angel of Light, and to make his
Kingdom and Administrations to resemble those of our Lord Jesus Christ.

7. Satan Rages Principally amongst the Visible Subjects of Christ's Kingdom and makes use (at
least in appearance) of some of them to Afflict others; that Christ's Kingdom, may be divided
against it self, and so be weakened.

8. Several things used in England at Tryal of Witches, to the Number of 14 or 15 which are
wont to pass instead of, or in Concurrence with Witnesses, at least 6 or 7 of them are found
in these accused: see Keebles Statutes.

9. Some of the most solid Afflicted Persons do affirme the same things concerning seeing the
accused out of their Fitts as well as in them.

10. The Witches had a Fast, and told one of the Afflicted Girles, she must not Eat, because
it was Fast Day, she said, she would: they told her they would Choake her then; which when
she did eat, was endeavoured.

A FURTHER ACCOUNT OF THE TRYALS OF

THE NEW-ENGLAND WITCHES, SENT IN A LETTER FROM

THENCE, TO A GENTLEMAN IN LONDON.

Here were in Salem, June 10, 1692, about 40 persons that were afflicted with horrible torments
by Evil Spirits, and the afflicted have accused 60 or 70 as Witches, for that they have Spectral
appearances of them, tho the Persons are absent when they are tormented. When these Witches
were Tryed, several of them confessed a contract with the Devil, by signing his Book, and did
express much sorrow for the same, declaring also thir Confederate Witches, and said the Tempters
of them desired 'em to sign the Devils Book, who tormented them till they did it. There were
at the time of Examination, before many hundreds of Witnesses, strange Pranks play'd; such
as the taking Pins out of the Clothes of the afflicted, and thrusting them into their flesh,
many of which were taken out again by the Judges own hands. Thorns also in like kind were thrust
into their flesh; the accusers were sometimes struck dumb, deaf, blind, and sometimes lay as
if they were dead for a while, and all foreseen and declared by the afflicted just before it
'twas done. Of the afflicted there were two Girls, about 12 or 13 years of age, who saw all
that was done, and were therefore called the Visionary Girls; they would say, Now he, or she,
or they, are going to bite or pinch the Indian; and all there present in Court saw the visible
marks on the Indians arms; they would also cry out, Now look, look, they are going to bind
such an ones Legs, and all present saw the same person spoken of, fall with her Legs twisted
in an extraordinary manner; Now say they, we shall all fall, and immediately 7 or 8 of the
afflicted fell down, with terrible shrieks and Out-crys; at the time when one of the Witches
was sentenc'd, and pinnion'd with a Cord, at the same time was the afflicted Indian Servant
going home, (being about 2 or 3 miles out of town,) and had both his Wrists at the same instant
bound about with a like Cord, in the same manner as she was when she was sentenc'd, but with
that violence, that the Cord entred into his flesh, not to be untied, nor hardly cut----Many
Murders are suppos'd to be in this way committed; for these Girls, and others of the afflicted,
say, they see Coffins, and bodies in Shrowds, rising up, and looking on the accused, crying,
Vengeance, Vengeance on the Murderers----Many other strange things were transacted before the
Court in the time of their Examination; and especially one thing which I had like to have forgot,
which is this, One of the accus'd, whilst the rest were under Examination, was drawn up by
a Rope to the Roof of the house where he was, and would have been choak'd in all probability,
had not the Rope been presently cut; the Rope hung at the Roof by some invisible tye, for there
was no hole where it went up; but after it was cut the remainder of it was found in the Chamber
just above, lying by the very place where it hung down.

In December 1692, the Court sate again at Salem in New-England, and cleared about 40 persons
suspected for Witches, and Condemned three. The Evidence against these three was the same as
formerly, so the Warrant for their Execution was sent, and the Graves digged for the said three,
and for about five more that had been Condemned at Salem formerly, but were Repreived by the
Governour.

In the beginning of February 1693, the Court sate at Charles-Town where the Judge exprest himself
to this effect.

That who it was that obstructed the Execution of Justice, or hindred those good proceedings
they had made, he knew not, but thereby the Kingdom of Satan was advanc'd, &c. and the Lord
have mercy on this Country: and so declined coming any more into Court. In his absence Mr.
D---- sate as Chief Judge 3 several days, in which time 5 or 6 were clear'd by Proclamation,
and almost as many by Trial; so that all are acquitted.

The most remarkable was an Old Woman named Dayton, of whom it was said, If any in the World
were a Witch, she was one, and had been so accounted 30 years. I had the Curiosity to see her
tried; she was a decrepid Woman of about 80 years of age, and did not use many words in her
own defence. She was accused by about 30 Witnesses; but the matter alledged against her was
such as needed little apology, on her part not one passionate word, or immoral action, or evil,
was then objected against her for 20 years past, only strange accidents falling out, after
some Christian admonition given by her, as saying, God would not prosper them, if they wrong'd
the Widow. Upon the whole, there was not proved against her any thing worthy of Reproof, or
just admonition, much less so heinous a Charge.

So that by the Goodness of God we are once more out of present danger of this Hobgoblin Monster;
the standing Evidence used at Salem were called, but did not appear.

There were others also at Charles-town brought upon their Tryals, who had formerly confess'd
themselves to be Witches; but upon their tryals deny'd it, and were all clear'd; So that at
present there is no further prosecution of any.

  CASES of CONSCIENCE
  Concerning
  Evil Spirits
  Personating MEN;
  WITCHCRAFTS,
  Infallible Proofs of Guilt in such as are
  Accused with that CRIME.

  All Considered according to the Scriptures, History,
  Experience, and the Judgment of many Learned
  MEN.

  By Increase Mather, President of Harvard Colledge at Cambridge,
  and Teacher of a Church at Boston in New England.

  PROV. xxii. xxi.

  ----That thou mightest Answer the Words of Truth, to them
  that send unto thee.

  Efficiunt Dæmones, ut quæ non sunt, sic tamen, quasi sint,
    conspicienda hominibus exhibeant. Lactantius Lib. 2. Instit.
    Cap. 15. Diabolus Consulitur, cum iis mediis utimur aliquid
    Cognoscendi, quæ a Diabolo sunt introducta. Ames Cas. Cons. L. 4.
    Cap. 23.

  Printed at Boston, and Re-printed at London, for \John Dunton\, at
  the Raven in the Poultrey. 1693.

CHRISTIAN READER.

So Odious and Abominable is the Name of a Witch, to the Civilized, much more the Religious
part of Mankind, that it is apt to grow up into a Scandal for any, so much as to enter some
sober cautions against the over hasty suspecting, or too precipitant Judging of Persons on
this account. But certainly, the more execrable the Crime is, the more critical care is to
be used in the exposing of the Names, Liberties, and Lives of Men (especially of a Godly Conversation)
to the imputation of it. The awful hand of God now upon us, in letting loose of evil Angels
among us to perpetrate such horrid Mischiefs, and suffering of Hell's Instruments to do such
fearful things as have been scarce heard of; hath put serious persons into deep Musings, and
upon curious Enquiries what is to be done for the detecting and defeating of this tremendous
design of the grand Adversary: And, tho' all that fear God are agreed, +That no evil is to
be done, that good may come of it+; yet hath the Devil obtained not a little of his design,
in the divisions of Reuben, about the application of this Rule.

That there are Devils and Witches, the Scripture asserts, and experience confirms, That they
are common enemies of Mankind, and set upon mischief, is not to be doubted: That the Devil
can (by Divine Permission) and often doth vex men in Body and Estate, without the Instrumentality
of Witches, is undeniable: That he often hath, and delights to have the concurrence of Witches,
and their consent in harming men, is consonant to his native Malice to Man, and too lamentably
exemplified: That Witches, when detected and convinced, ought to be exterminated and cut off,
we have God's warrant for, +Exod. 17.6.+ Much debate is made about what is sufficient Conviction,
and some have (in their Zeal) supposed that a less clear evidence ought to pass in this than
in other Cases, supposing that else it will be hard (if possible) to bring such to condign
Punishment, by reason of the close conveyances that there are between the Devil and Witches;
but this is a very dangerous and unjustifiable tenet. Men serve God in doing their Duty, he
never intended that all persons guilty of Capital Crimes should be discovered and punished
by men in this Life, though they be never so curious in searching after Iniquity. It is therefore
exceeding necessary that in such a day as this, men be informed what is Evidence and what is
not. It concerns men in point of Charity; for tho' the most shining Professor may be secretly
a most abominable Sinner, yet till he be detected, our Charity is bound to Judge according
to what appears: and notwithstanding that a clear evidence must determine a case; yet presumptions
must be weighed against presumptions, and Charity is not to be forgone as long as it has the
most preponderating on its side. And it is of no less necessity in point of Justice; there
are not only Testimonies required by God, which are to be credited according to the Rules given
in his Word referring to witnesses: But there is also an Evidence supposed to be in the Testimony,
which is throughly to be weighed, and if it do not infallibly prove the Crime against the person
accused, it ought not to determine him guilty of it; for so a righteous Man may be Condemned
unjustly. In the case of Witchcrafts we know that the Devil is the immediate Agent in the Mischief
done, the consent or compact of the Witch is the thing to be Demonstrated.

Among many Arguments to evince this, that which is most under present debate, is that which
refers to something vulgarly called +Spectre Evidence+, and a certain sort of Ordeal or trial
by the sight and touch. That the Resolutions of such Cases as these is proper for the Servants
of Christ in the Ministry cannot be denied; the seasonableness of doing it now, will be justified
by the Consideration of the necessity there is at this time of a right Information of men's
Judgments about these things, and the danger of their being misinformed.

The Reverend, Learned, and Judicious Author of the ensuing Cases, is too well known to need
our Commendation: All that we are concerned in, is to +assert our hearty Consent to, and Concurrence
with the substance of what is contained in the following Discourse+: And, with our hearty Request
to God, that he would discover the depths of this Hellish Design; direct in the whole management
of this Affair; prevent the taking any wrong steps in this dark way; and that he would in particular
Bless these faithful Endeavours of his Servant to that end, we Commend it and you to his Divine
Benediction.

  William Hubbard.
  Samuel Phillips.
  Charles Morton.
  James Allen.
  Michael Wigglesworth.
  Samuel Whiting, Sen.
  Samuel Willard.
  John Baily.
  Jabez Fox.
  Joseph Gerrish.
  Samuel Angier.
  John Wise.
  Joseph Capen.
  Nehemiah Walter.

CASES OF CONSCIENCE CONCERNING

WITCHCRAFTS.

The Answer to the Question must be Affirmative; Let the following Arguments be duely weighed
in the Ballance of the Sanctuary.

Argu. 1. There are several Scriptures from which we may infer the Possibility of what is Affirmed.

1. We find that the Devil by the Instigation of the Witch at Endor appeared in the Likeness
of the Prophet Samuel. I am not ignorant that some have asserted that, which, if it were proved,
would evert this Argument, viz. that it was the true and not a delusive Samuel which the Witch
brought to converse with Saul. Of this Opinion are some of the Jewish Rabbies[1] and some Christian
Doctors[2] and many late Popish Authors[3] amongst whom Cornel. a Lapide is most elaborate.
But that it was a Dæmon representing Samuel has been evinced by learned and Orthodox Writers:
especially [4]Peter Martyr, [5]Balduinus [6]Lavater, and our incomparable John Rainolde. I
shall not here insist on the clearing of that, especially considering, that elsewhere I have
done it: only let me add, that the Witch said to Saul, I see Elohim, i. e. A God; (for the
whole Context shows, that a single Person is intended) Ascending out of the Earth. 1 Sam. 28.13.
The Devil would be Worshipped as a God, and Saul now, that he was become a Necromancer, must
bow himself to him. Moreover, had it been the true Samuel from Heaven reprehending Saul, there
is great Reason to believe, that he would not only have reproved him for his sin, in not executing
Judgment on the Amalekites; as in Ver. 18. But for his Wickedness in consulting with Familiar
Spirits: For which Sin it was in special that he died. 2 Chron. 10.13. But in as much as there
is not one word to testify against that Abomination, we may conclude that it was not real Samuel
that appeared to Saul: and if it were the Devil in his likeness, the Argument seems very strong,
that if the Devil may appear in the form of a Saint in Glory, much more is it possible for
him to put on the likeness of the most Pious and Innocent Saint on Earth. There are, who acknowledge
that a Dæmon may appear in the shape of a Godly Person, But not as doing Evil. Whereas the
Devil in Samuel's likeness told a pernicious Lye, when he said, Thou hath disquieted me. It
was not in the Power of Saul, nor of all the Devils in Hell, to disquiet a Soul in Heaven,
where Samuel had been for Two years before this Apparition. Nor did the Spectre speak true,
when he said, Thou and thy Sons shall be with me: Tho' Saul himself at his Death went to be
with the Devil, his Son Jonathan did not so. Besides, (which suits with the matter in hand)
the Devil in Samuels shape confirmed Necromancy and Cursed Witchery. He that can in the likeness
of Saints encourage Witches to Familiarity with Hell, may possibly in the likeness of a Saint
afflict a Bewitched Person. But this we see from Scripture, Satan may be permitted to do.

And whereas it is objected, that the Devil may appear indeed in the form of Dead Persons, but
that he cannot represent such as are living; The contrary is manifest. No Question had Saul
said to the Witch, bring me David who was then living, she could as easily have shown living
David as dead Samuel, as easily as that great Conjurer of whom [7]Wierus speaks, brought the
appearance of Hector and Achilles, and after that of David before the Emperour Maximilian.

And that evil Angels have sometimes appeared in the likeness of living absent persons, is a
thing abundantly confirmed by History.

[8]Austin tells us of one that went for resolution in some intricate Questions to a Philosopher,
of whom he could get no Answer; but in the Night the Philosopher comes to him, and resolves
all his Doubts. Not long after, he demanded the reason why he could not answer him in the Day
as well as in the Night; The Philosopher professed he was not with him in the Night, only acknowledged
that he dreamed of his having such conversation of his Friend, but he was all the time at home,
and asleep. Paulus and Palladius did both of them profess to Austin, that one in his shape,
had divers times, and in divers places appeared to them: [9]Thyreus mentions several Apparitions
of absent living persons, which happened in his time, and which he had the certain knowledge
of. A Man that is in one place cannot (Autoprosopos) at the same time be in another. It remains
then that such Spectres are Prodigious and Supernatural, and not without Diabolical Operation.
It has been Controverted among Learned Men, whether innocent Persons may not by the malice
and deluding Power of the Devil be represented as present amongst Witches at their dark Assemblies.
The mentioned Thyreus says, that the Devil may, and often does represent the forms of Innocent
Persons out of those Conventions, and that there is no Question to be made of it, but as to
his natural Power and Art he is able to make their shapes appear amongst his own Servants,
but he supposeth the Providence of God will not suffer such an Injury to be done to an Innocent
Person. With him [10]Delrio, and Spineus concur. But Cumanus in his Lucerna Inquisitorum (a
Book which I have not yet seen) defends the Affirmative in this Question. Bins Fieldius in
his Treatise, concerning the Confession of Witches, inclines to the Negative, only [11]he acknowledges
Dei extraordinaria Permissione posse Innocentes sic representari. And he that shall assert,
that Great and Holy God never did nor ever will permit the Devil thus far to abuse an Innocent
Person, affirms more than he is able to prove. The story of Germanus his discovering a Diabolical
illusion of this nature, concerning a great number of Persons that seemed to be at a Feast
when they were really at home and asleep, is mentioned by many Authors. But the particulars
insisted on, do sufficiently evince the Truth of what we assert, viz. That the Devil may by
Divine Permission appear in the shape of Innocent and Pious Persons. Nevertheless, It is evident
from another Scripture, viz. that in 2 Cor. 11.14. For Satan himself is transformed into an
Angel of Light. He seems to be what he is not, and makes others seem to be what they are not.
He represents evil men as good, and good men as evil. The Angels of Heaven, (who are the Angels
of Light) love Truth and Righteousness, the Devil will seem to do so too; and does therefore
sometimes lay before men excellent good Principles and exhort them (as he did Theodore Maillit)
to practise many things, which by the Law of Righteousness they are obliged unto, and hereby
he does more effectually deceive. Is it not strange, that he has sometimes intimated to his
most devoted servants, that if they would have familiar Conversation with him, they must be
careful to keep themselves from enormous Sins, and pray constantly for Divine Protection? But
so has he transformed himself into an Angel of Light, as [12]Boissardus sheweth. He has frequently
appeared to Men pretending to be a good Angel, so to Anatolius of old; and the late instances
of [13]Dr. Dee and Kellet are famously known. How many deluded Enthusiasts both in former and
latter times have been imposed on by Satans appearing visibly to them, pretending to be a good
Angel. And moreover, he may be said to transform himself into an Angel of Light, because of
his appearing in the Form of Holy Men, who are the Children of Light, yea in the shape and
habit of Eminent Ministers of God. So did he appear to Mr. Earl of Colchester in the likeness
of Mr. Liddal an Holy Man of God, and to the Turkish Chaous Baptized at London, Anno 1658.
pretending to be Mr. Dury an Excellent Minister of Christ. And how often has he pretended to
be the Apostle Paul or Peter or some other celebrated Saint? Ecclesiastical Histories abound
with Instances of this nature. Yea, sometimes he has transfigured himself into the Form of
Christ. It is reported that he appeared to [14]St. Martin Gloriously arrayed, as if he had
been Christ. So likewise to [15]Secundellus, and to another Saint, who suspecting it was Satan,
transforming himself into an Angel of Light had this expression, If I may see Christ in Heaven
it is enough, I desire not to see him in this World; whereupon the Spectre vanished. It has
been related of Luther, that after he had been Fasting and Praying in his Study, the Devil
come pretending to be Christ, but Luther saying, away thou confounded Devil, I acknowledge
no Christ but what is in my Bible, nothing more was seen. Thus then the Devil is able (by Divine
Permission) to Change himself into what form or figure he pleaseth,

    Omnia transformat sese in miracula rerum.

A Third Scripture to our purpose is that, in Rev. 12.10. where the Devil is called the Accuser
of the Brethren. Such is the malice and impudence of the Devil, as that he does accuse good
Men, and that before God, and that not only of such Faults as they really are guilty of, he
accused Joshua with his filthy Garments, when through his Indulgence some of his Family had
transgressed by unlawful Marriages, Zach. 3.23. with Ezra. 10.18. but also with such Crimes,
as they are altogether free from. He represented the Primitive Christians as the vilest of
men, and as if at their Meetings they did commit the most nefandous Villanies that ever were
known; and that not only Innocent, but Eminently Pious Persons should thro' the malice of the
Devil be accused with the Crime of Witchcraft, is no new thing. Such an Affliction did the
Lord see meet to exercise the great Athanasius with[16] only the Divine Providence did wonderfully
vindicate him from that as well as from some other foul Aspersions. The Waldenses (altho' the
Scriptures call them Saints, Rev. 13.7.) have been traduced by Satan and by the World as horrible
Witches; so have others in other places, only because they have done extraordinary things by
their Prayers: It is by many Authors related, that a City in France was molested with a Diabolical
Spectre, which the People were wont to call Hugon; near that place a number of Protestants
were wont to meet to serve God, whence the Professors of the true reformed Religion were nic-named
Hugonots, by the Papists, who designed to render them before the World, as the Servants and
Worshippers of that Dæmon, that went under the name of Hugon. And how often have I read in
Books written by Jesuits, that Luther was a Wizard, and that he did himself confess that he
had familiarity with Satan! Most impudent Untruths! nor are these things to be wondered at,
since the Holy Son of God himself was reputed a Magician, and one that had Familiarity with
the greatest of Devils. The Blaspheming Pharisees said, he casts out the Devils thro' the Prince
of Devils, Matth. 9.34. There is then not the best Saint on Earth (Man or Woman) that can assure
themselves that the Devil shall not cast such an Imputation upon them. 10.25. It is not for
men to determine how far the Holy God may permit the wicked one to proceed in his Accusations.
The sacred story of Job giveth us to understand, that the Lord whose ways are past finding
out, does for wise and holy Ends suffer Satan by immediate Operation, (and consequently by
Witchcraft) greatly to afflict innocent Persons, as in their Bodies and Estates, so in their
Reputations. I shall mention but one Scripture more to confirm the Truth in hand: It is that
in Eccles. And in Eccles. 7.15. 'tis said, There is a just man that perisheth in his Righteousness.

From hence we infer, that there is no outward Affliction whatsoever but may befal a good Man;
now to be represented by Satan as a Tormentor of Bewitched or Possessed Persons, is a sore
Affliction to a good man. To be tormented by Satan is a sore Affliction, yet nothing but what
befel Job, and a Daughter of Abraham, whom we read of in the Gospel: To be represented by Satan
as tormenting others, is an Affliction like the former; the Lord may bring such extraordinary
Temptations on his own Children, to afflict and humble them, for some Sin they have been guilty
of before him. A most wicked Person in St. Ives, got a Knife, and went with it to a Ministers
House, designing to stab him, but was disappointed; afterwards Conscience being awakened, the
Devil appears to this Person in the Shape of that Minister, with a Knife in his hand exhorting
to Self-murder: Was not here a Punishment suitable to the Sin which that Person had been guilty
of? Perhaps some of those whom Satan has represented as committing Witchcrafts, have been tampering
with some foolish and wicked Sorceries, tho' not to that degree, which is Criminal and Capital
by the Laws both of God and Men; for this Satan may be permitted so to scourge them; or it
may be, they have misrepresented and abused others, for which cause the Holy God may justly
give Satan leave falsely to represent them.

Have we not known some that have bitterly censured all that have been complained of by bewitched
Persons, saying it was impossible they should not be guilty; soon upon which themselves or
some near Relations of theirs, have been to the lasting Infamy of their Families, accused after
the same manner, and Personated by the Devil! Such tremendous Rebukes on a few, should make
all men to be careful how they joyn with Satan in Condemning the Innocent.

