THE EUSTACE DIAMONDS

by

ANTHONY TROLLOPE

First published in serial form in the Fortnightly Review from July, 1871, to February, 1873,
and in book form in 1872

CONTENTS

         I. Lizzie Greystock
        II. Lady Eustace
       III. Lucy Morris
        IV. Frank Greystock
         V. The Eustace Necklace
        VI. Lady Linlithgow's Mission
       VII. Mr. Burke's Speeches
      VIII. The Conquering Hero Comes
        IX. Showing What the Miss Fawns Said, and What Mrs. Hittaway
            Thought
         X. Lizzie and Her Lover
        XI. Lord Fawn at His Office
       XII. "I Only Thought of It"
      XIII. Showing What Frank Greystock Did
       XIV. "Doan't Thou Marry for Munny"
        XV. "I'll Give You a Hundred Guinea Brooch"
       XVI. Certainly an Heirloom
      XVII. The Diamonds Are Seen in Public
     XVIII. "And I Have Nothing to Give"
       XIX. "As My Brother"
        XX. The Diamonds Become Troublesome
       XXI. "Ianthe's Soul"
      XXII. Lady Eustace Procures a Pony for the Use of Her Cousin
     XXIII. Frank Greystock's First Visit to Portray
      XXIV. Showing What Frank Greystock Thought About Marriage
       XXV. Mr. Dove's Opinion
      XXVI. Mr. Gowran Is Very Funny
     XXVII. Lucy Morris Misbehaves
    XXVIII. Mr. Dove in His Chambers
      XXIX. "I Had Better Go Away"
       XXX. Mr. Greystock's Troubles
      XXXI. Frank Greystock's Second Visit to Portray
     XXXII. Mr. and Mrs. Hittaway in Scotland
    XXXIII. "It Won't Be True"
     XXXIV. Lady Linlithgow at Home
      XXXV. Too Bad for Sympathy
     XXXVI. Lizzie's Guests
    XXXVII. Lizzie's First Day
   XXXVIII. Nappie's Grey Horse
     XXXIX. Sir Griffin Takes an Unfair Advantage
        XL. "You Are Not Angry?"
       XLI. "Likewise the Bears in Couples Agree"
      XLII. Sunday Morning
     XLIII. Life at Portray
      XLIV. A Midnight Adventure
       XLV. The Journey to London
      XLVI. Lucy Morris in Brook Street
     XLVII. Matching Priory
    XLVIII. Lizzie's Condition
      XLIX. Bunfit and Gager
         L. In Hertford Street
        LI. Confidence
       LII. Mrs. Carbuncle Goes to the Theatre
      LIII. Lizzie's Sick-Room
       LIV. "I Suppose I May Say a Word"
        LV. Quints or Semitenths
       LVI. Job's Comforters
      LVII. Humpty Dumpty
     LVIII. "The Fiddle with One String"
       LIX. Mr. Gowran Up in London
        LX. "Let It Be As Though It Had Never Been"
       LXI. Lizzie's Great Friend
      LXII. "You Know Where My Heart Is"
     LXIII. The Corsair Is Afraid
      LXIV. Lizzie's Last Scheme
       LXV. Tribute
      LXVI. The Aspirations of Mr. Emilius
     LXVII. The Eye of the Public
    LXVIII. The Major
      LXIX. "I Cannot Do It"
       LXX. Alas!
      LXXI. Lizzie Is Threatened with the Treadmill
     LXXII. Lizzie Triumphs
    LXXIII. Lizzie's Last Lover
     LXXIV. Lizzie at the Police-Court
      LXXV. Lord George Gives His Reasons
     LXXVI. Lizzie Returns to Scotland
    LXXVII. The Story of Lucy Morris Is Concluded
   LXXVIII. The Trial
     LXXIX. Once More at Portray
      LXXX. What Was Said About It All at Matching

VOLUME I

CHAPTER I

Lizzie Greystock

It was admitted by all her friends, and also by her enemies,--who were in truth the more numerous
and active body of the two,--that Lizzie Greystock had done very well with herself. We will
tell the story of Lizzie Greystock from the beginning, but we will not dwell over it at great
length, as we might do if we loved her. She was the only child of old Admiral Greystock, who
in the latter years of his life was much perplexed by the possession of a daughter. The admiral
was a man who liked whist, wine,--and wickedness in general we may perhaps say, and whose ambition
it was to live every day of his life up to the end of it. People say that he succeeded, and
that the whist, wine, and wickedness were there, at the side even of his dying bed. He had
no particular fortune, and yet his daughter, when she was little more than a child, went about
everywhere with jewels on her fingers, and red gems hanging round her neck, and yellow gems
pendent from her ears, and white gems shining in her black hair. She was hardly nineteen when
her father died and she was taken home by that dreadful old termagant, her aunt, Lady Linlithgow.
Lizzie would have sooner gone to any other friend or relative, had there been any other friend
or relative to take her possessed of a house in town. Her uncle, Dean Greystock, of Bobsborough,
would have had her, and a more good-natured old soul than the dean's wife did not exist,--and
there were three pleasant, good-tempered girls in the deanery, who had made various little
efforts at friendship with their cousin Lizzie; but Lizzie had higher ideas for herself than
life in the deanery at Bobsborough. She hated Lady Linlithgow. During her father's lifetime,
when she hoped to be able to settle herself before his death, she was not in the habit of concealing
her hatred for Lady Linlithgow. Lady Linlithgow was not indeed amiable or easily managed. But
when the admiral died, Lizzie did not hesitate for a moment in going to the old "vulturess,"
as she was in the habit of calling the countess in her occasional correspondence with the girls
at Bobsborough.

The admiral died greatly in debt;--so much so that it was a marvel how tradesmen had trusted
him. There was literally nothing left for anybody,--and Messrs. Harter and Benjamin of Old
Bond Street condescended to call at Lady Linlithgow's house in Brook Street, and to beg that
the jewels supplied during the last twelve months might be returned. Lizzie protested that
there were no jewels,--nothing to signify, nothing worth restoring. Lady Linlithgow had seen
the diamonds, and demanded an explanation. They had been "parted with," by the admiral's orders,--so
said Lizzie,--for the payment of other debts. Of this Lady Linlithgow did not believe a word,
but she could not get at any exact truth. At that moment the jewels were in very truth pawned
for money which had been necessary for Lizzie's needs. Certain things must be paid for,--one's
own maid for instance; and one must have some money in one's pocket for railway-trains and
little knick-knacks which cannot be had on credit. Lizzie when she was nineteen knew how to
do without money as well as most girls; but there were calls which she could not withstand,
debts which even she must pay.

She did not, however, drop her acquaintance with Messrs. Harter and Benjamin. Before her father
had been dead eight months, she was closeted with Mr. Benjamin, transacting a little business
with him. She had come to him, she told him, the moment she was of age, and was willing to
make herself responsible for the debt, signing any bill, note, or document which the firm might
demand from her, to that effect. Of course she had nothing of her own, and never would have
anything. That Mr. Benjamin knew. As for payment of the debt by Lady Linlithgow, who for a
countess was as poor as Job, Mr. Benjamin, she was quite sure, did not expect anything of the
kind. But-- Then Lizzie paused, and Mr. Benjamin, with the sweetest and wittiest of smiles,
suggested that perhaps Miss Greystock was going to be married. Lizzie, with a pretty maiden
blush, admitted that such a catastrophe was probable. She had been asked in marriage by Sir
Florian Eustace. Now Mr. Benjamin knew, as all the world knew, that Sir Florian Eustace was
a very rich man indeed; a man in no degree embarrassed, and who could pay any amount of jewellers'
bills for which claim might be made upon him. Well; what did Miss Greystock want? Mr. Benjamin
did not suppose that Miss Greystock was actuated simply by a desire to have her old bills paid
by her future husband. Miss Greystock wanted a loan sufficient to take the jewels out of pawn.
She would then make herself responsible for the full amount due. Mr. Benjamin said that he
would make a few inquiries. "But you won't betray me," said Lizzie, "for the match might be
off." Mr. Benjamin promised to be more than cautious.

There was not so much of falsehood as might have been expected in the statement which Lizzie
Greystock made to the jeweller. It was not true that she was of age, and therefore no future
husband would be legally liable for any debt which she might then contract. And it was not
true that Sir Florian Eustace had asked her in marriage. Those two little blemishes in her
statement must be admitted. But it was true that Sir Florian was at her feet, and that by a
proper use of her various charms,--the pawned jewels included,--she might bring him to an offer.
Mr. Benjamin made his inquiries, and acceded to the proposal. He did not tell Miss Greystock
that she had lied to him in that matter of her age, though he had discovered the lie. Sir Florian
would no doubt pay the bill for his wife without any arguments as to the legality of the claim.
From such information as Mr. Benjamin could acquire he thought that there would be a marriage,
and that the speculation was on the whole in his favour. Lizzie recovered her jewels and Mr.
Benjamin was in possession of a promissory note purporting to have been executed by a person
who was no longer a minor. The jeweller was ultimately successful in his views,--and so was
the lady.

Lady Linlithgow saw the jewels come back, one by one, ring added to ring on the little taper
fingers, the rubies for the neck, and the pendent yellow earrings. Though Lizzie was in mourning
for her father, still these things were allowed to be visible. The countess was not the woman
to see them without inquiry, and she inquired vigorously. She threatened, stormed, and protested.
She attempted even a raid upon the young lady's jewel-box. But she was not successful. Lizzie
snapped and snarled and held her own,--for at that time the match with Sir Florian was near
its accomplishment, and the countess understood too well the value of such a disposition of
her niece to risk it at the moment by any open rupture. The little house in Brook Street,--for
the house was very small and very comfortless,--a house that had been squeezed in, as it were,
between two others without any fitting space for it,--did not contain a happy family. One bedroom,
and that the biggest, was appropriated to the Earl of Linlithgow, the son of the countess,
a young man who passed perhaps five nights in town during the year. Other inmate there was
none besides the aunt and the niece and the four servants,--of whom one was Lizzie's own maid.
Why should such a countess have troubled herself with the custody of such a niece? Simply because
the countess regarded it as a duty. Lady Linlithgow was worldly, stingy, ill-tempered, selfish,
and mean. Lady Linlithgow would cheat a butcher out of a mutton-chop, or a cook out of a month's
wages, if she could do so with some slant of legal wind in her favour. She would tell any number
of lies to carry a point in what she believed to be social success. It was said of her that
she cheated at cards. In back-biting, no venomous old woman between Bond Street and Park Lane
could beat her,--or, more wonderful still, no venomous old man at the clubs. But nevertheless
she recognised certain duties,--and performed them, though she hated them. She went to church,
not merely that people might see her there,--as to which in truth she cared nothing,--but because
she thought it was right. And she took in Lizzie Greystock, whom she hated almost as much as
she did sermons, because the admiral's wife had been her sister, and she recognised a duty.
But, having thus bound herself to Lizzie,--who was a beauty,--of course it became the first
object of her life to get rid of Lizzie by a marriage. And, though she would have liked to
think that Lizzie would be tormented all her days, though she thoroughly believed that Lizzie
deserved to be tormented, she set her heart upon a splendid match. She would at any rate be
able to throw it daily in her niece's teeth that the splendour was of her doing. Now a marriage
with Sir Florian Eustace would be very splendid, and therefore she was unable to go into the
matter of the jewels with that rigour which in other circumstances she would certainly have
displayed.

The match with Sir Florian Eustace,--for a match it came to be,--was certainly very splendid.
Sir Florian was a young man about eight-and-twenty, very handsome, of immense wealth, quite
unencumbered, moving in the best circles, popular, so far prudent that he never risked his
fortune on the turf or in gambling-houses, with the reputation of a gallant soldier, and a
most devoted lover. There were two facts concerning him which might, or might not, be taken
as objections. He was vicious, and--he was dying. When a friend, intending to be kind, hinted
the latter circumstance to Lady Linlithgow, the countess blinked and winked and nodded, and
then swore that she had procured medical advice on the subject. Medical advice declared that
Sir Florian was not more likely to die than another man,--if only he would get married; all
of which statement on her ladyship's part was a lie. When the same friend hinted the same thing
to Lizzie herself, Lizzie resolved that she would have her revenge upon that friend. At any
rate the courtship went on.

We have said that Sir Florian was vicious;--but he was not altogether a bad man, nor was he
vicious in the common sense of the word. He was one who denied himself no pleasure, let the
cost be what it might in health, pocket, or morals. Of sin or wickedness he had probably no
distinct idea. In virtue, as an attribute of the world around him, he had no belief. Of honour
he thought very much, and had conceived a somewhat noble idea that because much had been given
to him much was demanded of him. He was haughty, polite,--and very generous. There was almost
a nobility even about his vices. And he had a special gallantry of which it is hard to say
whether it is or is not to be admired. They told him that he was like to die,--very like to
die, if he did not change his manner of living. Would he go to Algiers for a period? Certainly
not. He would do no such thing. If he died, there was his brother John left to succeed him.
And the fear of death never cast a cloud over that grandly beautiful brow. They had all been
short-lived,--the Eustaces. Consumption had swept a hecatomb of victims from the family. But
still they were grand people, and never were afraid of death.

