Rebecca lost no time in causing the patient to be transported to their temporary dwelling,
and proceeded with her own hands to examine and to bind up his wounds. The youngest reader
of romances and romantic ballads, must recollect how often the females, during the dark ages,
as they are called, were initiated into the mysteries of surgery, and how frequently the gallant
knight submitted the wounds of his person to her cure, whose eyes had yet more deeply penetrated
his heart.

But the Jews, both male and female, possessed and practised the medical science in all its
branches, and the monarchs and powerful barons of the time frequently committed themselves
to the charge of some experienced sage among this despised people, when wounded or in sickness.
The aid of the Jewish physicians was not the less eagerly sought after, though a general belief
prevailed among the Christians, that the Jewish Rabbins were deeply acquainted with the occult
sciences, and particularly with the cabalistical art, which had its name and origin in the
studies of the sages of Israel. Neither did the Rabbins disown such acquaintance with supernatural
arts, which added nothing (for what could add aught?) to the hatred with which their nation
was regarded, while it diminished the contempt with which that malevolence was mingled. A Jewish
magician might be the subject of equal abhorrence with a Jewish usurer, but he could not be
equally despised. It is besides probable, considering the wonderful cures they are said to
have performed, that the Jews possessed some secrets of the healing art peculiar to themselves,
and which, with the exclusive spirit arising out of their condition, they took great care to
conceal from the Christians amongst whom they dwelt.

The beautiful Rebecca had been heedfully brought up in all the knowledge proper to her nation,
which her apt and powerful mind had retained, arranged, and enlarged, in the course of a progress
beyond her years, her sex, and even the age in which she lived. Her knowledge of medicine and
of the healing art had been acquired under an aged Jewess, the daughter of one of their most
celebrated doctors, who loved Rebecca as her own child, and was believed to have communicated
to her secrets, which had been left to herself by her sage father at the same time, and under
the same circumstances. The fate of Miriam had indeed been to fall a sacrifice to the fanaticism
of the times; but her secrets had survived in her apt pupil.

Rebecca, thus endowed with knowledge as with beauty, was universally revered and admired by
her own tribe, who almost regarded her as one of those gifted women mentioned in the sacred
history. Her father himself, out of reverence for her talents, which involuntarily mingled
itself with his unbounded affection, permitted the maiden a greater liberty than was usually
indulged to those of her sex by the habits of her people, and was, as we have just seen, frequently
guided by her opinion, even in preference to his own.

