And for my part I hold it as chief among the magnificent benefits so conferred by him upon
his country that, being the most powerful member of the state, he made no secret of his absolute
submission to the laws, (3) since what lesser man, seeing the king's obedience, would take
(4) on himself to disobey? Who, in discontentment at his own poor lot, would venture on revolution,
knowing that the king himself could condescend to constitutional control? And that, too, a
king who bore himself towards political opponents with a paternal mildness. (5) If he rebuked
them sharply for their misdemeanours, he none the less honoured their high endeavours, and
proved himself a present help to them in time of trouble. (6) No citizen could be his personal
foe; of that he was assured. His desire was to commend them one and all alike, counting the
common salvation of all a gain, and reckoning it as a loss if even a mean man perished. For
thus he reasoned, nor made a secret of the conclusion he had come to: so long as her citizens
continued tranquilly adherent to the laws the happiness of Sparta was secure. (7) And for the
rest Sparta would once again be strong on that day when the states of Hellas should learn wisdom.

 (3) Or, "he was at the same time the most obvious in his allegiance to
    the laws."

 (4) Lit. "would have taken on himself... would have ventured on
    revolution."

 (5) Lit. "as a father to his children."

 (6) Or, "and was ready to stand by their side in time of trouble."

 (7) Or, "For this was the clear tenor of his thought, that by tranquil
    continuance within the laws the citizens of Sparta might secure
    her happiness. And as to power, Sparta, etc." See "Mem." II. vi.
    27.

And if, by admission, it is noble for every Hellene to be a lover of his fellow-Hellenes, yet
we must fare far afield to find another instance of a general who, expecting to sack some city,
would have refused to seize the prize; or who regarded victory in a war waged against fellow-Hellenes
as a species of calamity. Yet this man when a message was brought him concerning the battle
at Corinth, (8) in which but eight Lacedaemonians had fallen, but of their opponents ten thousand
nearly, showed no sign of exultation, but sighed, saying, "Alas for Hellas! since those who
now lie in their graves, were able, had they lived, to conquer the hosts of Asia." (9) Again,
when some Corinthian exiles informed him that their city was ripe for surrender, and showed
him the engines by which they were confident they would take the walls, he refused to make
the assault, saying that Hellene cities ought not to be reduced to slavery, but brought back
to a better mind, (10) and added, "For if we lop off our offending members, haply we may deprive
ourselves of the means to master the barbarians."

 (8) B.C. 394. See "Hell." IV. ii. 9-23; Diod. xiv. 83; Grote, "H. G."
    ix. 429.

 (9) Lit. "all the barbarians."

 (10) See "Econ." i. 23.

Again, if it is a sacred duty to hate the Persian, who of old set out on a campaign to enslave
Hellas; the Persian, who to-day makes alliance with these  (no matter to him which the party,
provided it will help him to work the greater mischief (11)); or gives presents to those  (who
will take them and do the greatest harm to his foes the Hellenes); or else concocts a peace
that shall presently involve us in internecine war, as he anticipates:--but why dwell on facts
so patent? --I ask, did ever Hellene before Agesilaus so enter heart and soul upon his duty;
whether it were to help some tribe to throw off the Persian yoke, or to save from destruction
a revolted district, or if nothing else, at any rate to saddle the Persian with such troubles
of his own that he should cease to trouble Hellas? An ardent hater of Persia surely was he,
who, when his own country was at war with Hellenes, did not neglect the common good of Hellas,
but set sail to wreak what harm he might upon the barbarians. (12)

 (11) Or, "the worse the mischief he can work, the better the side."

 (12) See Isocr. "Ep." ix. "To Archidamus," S. 11-14.

VIII

To turn to another side, that grace of manner which was his, claims more than passing recognition.
Here was a man to whom honour was vouchsafed and power present, and who, to crown all else,
held in his hands the sceptre of sovereignty--a kingship not plotted against, but respected
and beloved. Yet there was no trace of arrogance to be seen in him, but of tender affection
and courteous service to his friends proof in abundance without seeking. Witness the zest with
which he shared in the round of lovers' talk; (1) the zeal with which he threw himself into
the serious concerns (2) of friends. By dint of a hopeful and cheery disposition and unflagging
gaiety of heart he attracted to his side a throng of visitors, who came, not simply for the
transaction of some private interest, but rather to pass away the day in pleasant sort. Though
little apt himself to use high-swelling words, it did not annoy him to hear others sounding
their own praises, which he regarded as a harmless weakness, the pledge at least of high endeavour
(3) in the future.

 (1) See "Hell." V. iii. 20; "Cyrop." I. iv. 27; "Econ." ii. 7; Plut.
    "Ages." ii.; xx.; Lyc. xx.

 (2) Or, "he would discuss graver matters, according to the humour of
    his friends."

 (3) Or, "of courageous conduct," "noble manhood."

But that he was capable of lofty sentiment and at the right season
must not be overlooked. Thus when a letter reached him from the king
 (I speak of that which was brought by the Persian agent in company
with Calleas (4) of Lacedaemon, proposing terms of hospitality and
friendship with the Persian monarch), he disdained to accept it,
telling the bearer to take back to the king this answer: "He need not
be at pains to send him letters in private, but if he could prove
himself a friend to Lacedaemon and the well-wisher of Hellas he should
have no cause to blame the ardour of his friendship," but added, "if
your king be detected plotting, let him not think to find a friend in
me. No, not if he sends me a thousand letters." For my part, then, I
hold it praiseworthy that, by comparison with pleasing his
fellow-Hellenes, Agesilaus scorned such friendship. And this, too, among
his tenets I find admirable: the truer title to self-congratulation
belonged not to the millionaire, the master of many legions, but to him
rather, who, being himself a better man, commanded the allegiance of
better followers.

 (4) See "Hell." IV. i. 15; Plut. "Apophth. Lac." p. 777; Grote, "H.
    G." x. 402.

And this, in proof of mental forecast, I must needs praise in him. Holding to the belief that
the more satraps there were who revolted from the king the surer the gain to Hellas, he did
not suffer himself to be seduced, either by gifts or by the mightiness in his power, to be
drawn into bonds of friendship with the king, but took precaution rather not to abuse their
confidence who were willing to revolt.

And lastly, as beyond all controversy admirable, note this contrast: First, the Persian, who,
believing that in the multitude of his riches he had power to lay all things under his feet,
would fain have swept into his coffers all the gold and all the silver of mankind: for him,
and him alone, the costliest and most precious things of earth. And then this other, who contrariwise
so furnished his establishment as to be totally independent of every adventitious aid. (5)
And if any one doubts the statement, let him look and see with what manner of dwelling-place
he was contented; let him view the palace doors: these are the selfsame doors, he might well
imagine, which Aristodemus, (6) the great-great-grandson of Heracles, took and set up in the
days of the return. Let him endeavour to view the furniture inside; there he will perceive
how the king feasted on high holy days; and he will hear how the king's own daughter was wont
to drive to Amyclae in a public basket-carriage. (7) Thus it was that by the adjustment of
expenditure to income he was never driven to the commission of any unjust deed for money's
sake. And yet if it be a fine thing to hold a fortress impregnable to attack, I count it a
greater glory that a man should hold the fortress of his soul inviolable against the assaults
of riches, pleasures, fears.

 (5) Or, "of all such external needs."

 (6) See Herod. vi. 52.

 (7) See Plut. "Ages." xix.  (Clough, iv. p. 23); the words {e thugater
    autou} were supplied from this passage by Casaubon.

IX

I will here state to what extent the style of living which he presented stands out in striking
contrast to the ostentatious manner of the Persian. (1) In the first place, if the latter made
a solemn affectation of being but seldom seen, Agesilaus delighted to live in the eye of day,
believing that seclusion might accord well enough as a screen for shameless conduct, but to
a life of nobleness and beauty (2) heaven's light added new ornament. (3) And next, if the
one prided himself on being unapproachable, the other rejoiced in being accessible to all the
world; the one, with his airs and graces, was pleased to transact business slowly, the other
was never so happy as when he could satisfy the demands of a petitioner without waste of time. (4)

 (1) Or, "how he presented his own manner in antithesis to the false
    pretences of the Persian." For {alazoneia} see "Mem." I. vii. 1;
    Aristot. "N. E." iv. 7; Theophr. "Char." vi.

 (2) Lit. "a life striving towards beauteousness."

 (3) Or, "added but greater lustre."

 (4) Lit. "could satisfy and dismiss his petitioners without delay."

Again, it is worthy of observation how much easier and simpler to satisfy was the standard
of comfort which the Spartan aimed at. (5) For the Persian, men must compass sea and land to
discover some beverage which he will care to drink; he needs ten thousand pastrycooks to supply
the kick-shaws he will deign to eat; and to procure him the blessing of sleep no tongue can
describe what a world of trouble must be taken. But Agesilaus was a lover of toil, and therefore
not so dainty; the meanest beverage was sweet to his lips, and pleasant enough to his taste
was the chance fare of the moment; and for the purpose of refreshing slumber every place alike
conducive. It was not merely that to fare thus gave him pure pleasure, but in the sense of
contrast lay a double satisfaction. Here was he roaming earth freely in the midst of a world
of delight, (6) and there lay the Persian, under his eyes, who to escape a life of pain must
drag together from the uttermost parts of earth the separate ingredients for his pleasure.
It was another source of joy that to himself it was given to confront the appointed order of
the universe (7) without pain; while through weakness of soul his rival, it was plain to see,
was driven to flee away from heat and cold, and to shape his life, not by the pattern of brave
men, but of some mean and defenceless animal. (8)

 (5) See Herod. i. 135, for the luxury of the Persians and for the
    refinements of civilisation. See "Mem." II. i. 10; "Cyrop." VIII.
    i. 40.

 (6) Or, "in a round of festivity."

 (7) See Plut. "Ages." xiv.  (Clough, iv. p. 17); "Apophth. Lac." p.
    102; Eur. "Supp." 214, 215.

     {de ou truphomen, theou kataskeuen bio
     dontos toiauten, oisin ouk arkei tade};

 (8) Or, "the most defenceless of God's creatures." Lit. "the weakest
    of animals."

And what a fine trait this was in him, and betokening how lofty a sentiment, that, being content
to adorn his own house with works and possessions suited to a man, and being devoted to the
breeding of dogs and horses in large numbers for the chase and warfare, he persuaded his sister
Cynisca to rear chariot horses, (9) and thus by her victory (10) showed that to keep a stud
of that sort, however much it might be a mark of wealth, was hardly a proof of manly virtue.
And surely in the following opinion we may discern plainly the generosity of him who entertained
it. To win victories over private persons in a chariot race does not add one tittle to a man's
renown. He, rather, who holds his city dear beyond all things else, who has himself sunk deep
into the heart of her affections, who has obtained to himself all over the world a host of
friends and those the noblest, who can outdo his country and comrades alike in the race of
kindliness, and his antagonists in vengeance--such a man may, in a true sense, be said to bear
away the palm of victory in conquests noble and magnificent; living and in death to him belongs
transcendent fame.

 (9) I.e. "for the games."

 (10) I.e. "at Olympia." Cynisca, according to Pausanias  (iii. 8), was
    the first woman who won a prize at Olympia. See also Plut. "Ages."
    xx.  (Clough, iv. p. 23).

X

It is as possessiong qualities such as these that I praise Agesilaus. And in these matters
he was not like a man who chances upon a treasure and thereby becomes wealthier, albeit none
the more skilful in economy; nor yet like him who, when a plague has fallen upon an enemy,
wrests a victory, whereby he may add to his reputation for success, but not for strategy. Rather
was his example that of one who in each emergency will take the lead; at a crisis where toil
is needful, by endurance; or in the battle-lists of bravery by prowess; or when the function
of the counsellor is uppermost, by the soundness of his judgment. Of such a man I say, he has
obtained by warrant indefeasible the title peerless.

And if, as a means towards good workmanship, we count among the noble inventions of mankind
the rule and the plummet, (1) no less happily shall we, who desire to attain a manly excellence,
find in the virtue of Agesilaus a pattern and example. He was God-fearing, he was just in all
his dealings, sound of soul and self-controlled. How then shall we who imitate him become his
opposite, unholy, unjust, tyrannical, licentious? And, truth to say, this man prided himself,
not so much on being a king over others as on ruling himself, (2) not so much on leading his
citizens to attack the enemy as on guiding them to embrace all virtue.

 (1) See Aeschin. "c. Ctes." p. 52, 25; Plat. "Phileb." 56 B.

 (2) See Plut. "Apophth. Lac." p. 104.

Yet let it not be supposed, because he whom we praise has finished life, that our discourse
must therefore be regarded as a funeral hymn. (3) Far rather let it be named a hymn of praise,
since in the first place it is only the repetition, now that he is dead, of a tale familiar
to his ears when living. And in the next place, what is more remote from dirge and lamentation
than a life of glory crowned by seasonable death? What more deserving of song and eulogy than
resplendent victories and deeds of highest note? Surely if one man rather than another may
be accounted truly blest, it is he who, from his boyhood upwards, thirsted for glory, and beyond
all contemporary names won what he desired; who, being gifted with a nature most emulous of
honour, remained from the moment he was king unconquered; who attained the fullest term of
mortal life and died without offence (4) committed, whether as concerning those at whose head
he marched, or as towards those others against whom he fought in war.

 (3) See Symonds' "Greek Poets," ch. v.

 (4) As to the word {anamartetos} so translated, see Breitenbach, Exc.
    ad x. 4 of his edition.

XI

