Throughout the day the nation awaited, under tense strain, an answer from Russia. "At five
o'clock the excitement of the masses in Unter den Linden had increased to a degree almost beyond
endurance. The crowd surged from side to side when a court carriage or an officer drove by
in a motor-car. Everyone felt that the fateful decision might fall at any minute, when the
German nation would know its fate.

"Suddenly motor-cars full of officers appeared from the gates of the royal residence. They
shouted to the excited crowd that the general mobilization had been ordered. One officer waved
his drawn sword, another his handkerchief, while others stood up and waved their caps. Then
an indescribable scene of jubilation followed; the parole 'mobilization' was passed on by the
police, and in less time than it takes to write, the hundreds of thousands of human beings
surging to and fro between the monument to 'Old Fritz' and the Lustgarten, knew that Germany
would now speak with her sword."[16]

[Footnote 16: Berliner Tageblatt, August 2nd.]

"Our hour of destiny has struck! Germany, the strongest and most peaceful nation on earth,
appeals to the sword. The last call which we sent across the Eastern frontier has remained
unanswered. The enemy is mute. Now Germany speaks!

"The Kaiser calls the Empire to arms! Our King will lead Bavaria's armies to him. The nation
is ready, armed to the teeth. Challenged by a dishonest opponent who envies us the fruit of
our peaceful toil, the hands of German men leave their work and grasp the sword. Our enemy
shall learn to his terrible cost, what it means to summon a nation in arms to the battlefield.
The German army goes out to fight for our country, in a cause which is more stainless and pure
than the light of the sun. The disgraceful Muscovite conspiracy, creeping in the footsteps
of Serbian murderers, believes the moment has arrived in which they will be able to fall upon,
overthrow and plunder us; Russia desires to kindle a world war.

"We believe that he will not succeed; but should it thus fall out, we Germans will defend not
only our land and ourselves; but, in this war which has been forced upon us in the basest manner
possible, we shall defend the civilization of the world, the culture of the earth, against
debased 'unculture' and the spreading roots of decay. This is a lofty and tremendous task.
If we are victorious, as we confidently trust, then the ever-increasing number of civilized
peoples honestly toiling in the blessings of peace, will thank us for centuries to come.

"Brothers! Sisters! such an hour has come that the history of the world has never witnessed
before. In the struggle which now begins--a deadly grapple frivolously conjured up by Russia's
monarch--the whole earth will groan. The German people, however, will prove that it is worthy
to retain and develop its leading place in the intellectual and cultural progress of the world.
Our enemy envies us this position because in his land, stupidity and confusion reign supreme;
his own uncivilization and barbarism cannot be rooted out.

"We will prevent him from throwing Europe back to the conditions in which he and his likes
dwell. May God grant that the civilized peoples of Europe may have true understanding for this
historic hour, just as their heroic ancestors understood the danger when they hurled themselves
against the invasions of the Mongols.

"First of all the German nation will march against the armies of the East, and, hand in hand
with our ally, we hope will so grip the enemy that he will lose all desire ever to attack us
again."[17]

[Footnote 17: München-Augsburger Abendzeitung, August 2nd.]

The last lines of this perfervid article, give an instructive clue. A mere quibble had arisen
between the Central Powers and Russia. The former immediately adopted an arrogant, even threatening,
attitude which thoughtful Germans condemned. Russia's willingness to submit the question to
an arbitration conference consisting of four neutral ambassadors seems only to have intensified
Teutonic lust to humiliate the opponent. In any case, it is interesting to note that between
July 24th and 31st the whole German nation had been converted to the uncompromising attitude
of the Government.

Further, it is evident that the German people believed they were about to march against Russia.
The very last remark which I heard from German lips as we entered the train to leave Erlangen
on July 31st was: "Jetzt werden die Russen abgeklöpft." ("Now the Russians will get a whacking.")[18]

[Footnote 18: We left Erlangen at 3.30 p.m. Martial law had been proclaimed some time previous
to that. But the proclamation in Berlin occurred at 3.30 p.m. on the same day. The Berliner
Abendblatt published on the same evening states that the Kaiser had been waiting and hoping
for a peaceful answer from Russia. The Bavarian authorities could not have taken so serious
a step without an order from the Highest War Lord, which leads to the conclusion that it was
a device to get military preparation well under way.]

The Berlin cabinet mobilized Germany's armed strength, as they alleged, against Russia, and
the Government succeeded in arousing and enlisting national enthusiasm against the Eastern
neighbour. Yet when the time came to strike, Germany's might was hurled against neutral Belgium
and unwilling France, while Russia was left free to overrun the Eastern part of Germany. The
blood-guilt rests in the first place with the Kaiser and his Government, and in the second
place (although in no less a degree) with the German people, because they condoned the crime
and acquiesced in the duplicity.

While the war fury seethed through the nation the cry echoed on all sides: "We want peace!
We have worked for a peaceful solution!" Yet a study of the workings of the national mind as
revealed in the German Press, and of diplomatic doings as shown in the German White Book, affords
not a single instance--excepting the Socialists' demonstrations--of any tangible, concrete
effort made either by the German people or its representative diplomacy to avoid a catastrophe.
On the other hand it must be said that the latter (German diplomacy) deliberately baulked the
only practical proposal (Sir Edward Grey's) which could have brought about a solution. The
German nation did desire peace, but only on the condition that their opponents granted Germany
and Austria's arrogant claims down to the smallest tittle.

Exactly at six minutes to one (midday) on August 1st, a telegram left Berlin instructing the
German Ambassador in St. Petersburg to declare war on Russia at 5 p.m. if the latter State
had not given a satisfactory answer to Germany's ultimatum by that time. Count Pourtalès performed
this duty, and therewith the sands of fate ran out.

On the previous day summonses had been issued calling a meeting of the Reichstag for Tuesday,
August 4th. The opening ceremony took place at 1 p.m. and all the political parties were present,
except the Social Democrats, who, according to their traditions, did not appear, and thus escaped
the famous hand-shaking scene. The Kaiser and two of his sons appeared in field-grey uniform.
His theatrical appeal for the leaders of each party to swear fidelity to the national cause
by shaking hands with him, as well as his saying that "Now there are only Germans," may have
been spontaneous; but it is far more probable that they were meant to be a diplomatic appeal
to the sentimental vanity of the German nation.

It would be superfluous to deal with the speech from the throne in this place, but at the close
of the ceremony an incident occurred which deserves mention. "After taking leave of the Reichstag's
representatives the Kaiser stretched out his hand to the famous professor of jurisprudence
in Strasbourg University, Dr. van Calker. The Kaiser looked steadily at Professor van Calker
for a moment, then, after the handshake, clenched his fist and struck downwards uttering these
words: 'Nun aber wollen wir sie dreschen!'[19] ('Now we will jolly well thrash them!'); nodded
to the professor and walked away."[20]

[Footnote 19: This utterance has since become a common theme for composition exercises in German
schools.]

[Footnote 20: Tägliche Rundschau, August 5th.]

The sitting in the Reichstag was a solemn event. On that occasion the Chancellor expressed
himself at length in defining Germany's position.

"A tremendous fate has fallen upon Europe. While we have endeavoured to maintain the prestige
of the German Empire in the eyes of the world, we have lived for forty-four years in peace
and protected European peace. In this work of peace we have become strong and mighty--therefore
we are envied. We have suffered with long-enduring patience; while in the East and West, under
the excuse that Germany is lusting for war, hatred for us has been nourished and fetters wrought
where-with to bind us. The wind which blows there has now become a storm.

"We desired nothing but to live on in peaceful toil, content with an unspoken oath that was
echoed from the Emperor down to the youngest recruit. Our sword shall only leap from its sheath
in defence of a just cause. (Loud applause.) The day on which we must draw it, has dawned against
our will and contrary to our honest endeavours. Russia has set a burning torch to the house
of peace. (Loud cries of 'Quite true.') We stand to-day in a forced war with Russia and France.

"Gentlemen, a number of documents, collected in the haste caused by these overwhelming events,
have been laid before you. Permit me to emphasize the facts which characterize our attitude.

"From the moment that the Austrian conflict broke out we have striven and worked to limit the
quarrel to Austria-Hungary and Serbia. All the cabinets, in particular England, accept this
view; only Russia has declared that in the settlement of this conflict, she must be allowed
to express her wishes. Therewith the danger of European complications raised its threatening
countenance.

"As soon as the first certain news of Russian military preparations reached us, we caused it
to be made known in St. Petersburg, in a friendly but unmistakable manner, that warlike measures
and military preparations would compel us also to take corresponding steps. But mobilization
is next to war. Russia assured us in a friendly tone (cries of indignation) that she was making
no military preparations against us.

"Meanwhile England tried to mediate between Vienna and St. Petersburg and was warmly supported
by us. On July 28th the Kaiser telegraphed to the Czar begging him to remember that it was
Austria-Hungary's right and duty to stop the Greater-Serbian agitation, as this threatened
to undermine Austria's existence. (Cries of indignation.) The Kaiser pointed out to the Czar
the gulf between monarchical interests and the outrage at Serajewo; he begged him to give his
personal support to the Kaiser's endeavour to smooth out the antithesis between Vienna and
St. Petersburg.

"Just before this telegram came into the Czar's hands, the Czar, on his side, begged the Kaiser
for his help: the Kaiser should advise Vienna to be more moderate. The Kaiser undertook the
task of mediator, but the action ordered by him was hardly in motion, when Russia began to
mobilize all her forces against Austria-Hungary. (Excited shouts of indignation and disgust.)
But Austria had only mobilized certain army corps against Serbia, besides which she had only
two corps, and these were far from the Russian frontier.

"At this juncture the Kaiser informed the Czar that the mobilization of his armies against
Austria would increase the difficulties of mediation, a task which he had undertaken at the
Czar's express wish, and perhaps render it impossible. Nevertheless, we continued our mediatory
action in Berlin, and indeed in a form which went to the limits permitted by our alliance.
(Great excitement.) During this time Russia renewed her assurances that she was taking no military
measures against us.

"We come to July 3ist. In Vienna a decision was to be arrived at on that day. By our representations
we had already brought it about that Vienna, which for a time was not in direct communication
with St. Petersburg, had commenced direct discussion again. But before Vienna could come to
a final decision, the news came that Russia was mobilizing--i.e., against us too--her whole
forces. (Cries of indignation.) The Russian Government, although fully aware from our repeated
representations what a mobilization on our frontiers means, did not notify this step to us,
and gave us no explanations concerning it.

"As late as the afternoon of July 31st a telegram came from the Czar to the Kaiser in which
the former pledged himself that his army should take up no provocative attitude against us.
(Great excitement.) But the hostile mobilization on the Russian frontier was in full swing
during the night July 30th-31st. While we were mediating in Berlin the Russian armies appeared
on our long and almost entirely open frontier. France was not yet mobilizing, but, as she admits,
was already taking precautionary measures.

"And we? Up till then we had not--the Imperial Chancellor spoke with great emotion and repeatedly
struck the table while uttering these words--called up a single reservist, out of a loving
regard for the peace of Europe. (Loud cries of 'Bravo!') Were we then to wait on in patience
till the Powers between which we are wedged should choose their moment to strike? (A hurricane
of voices, 'No!') To expose Germany to this danger would be a crime. (Stormy, general and long
continued cries of 'Quite true!' and 'Bravo!' in which the Social Democrats joined too.)

"Therefore on July 31st we requested Russia to demobilize as the only measure which could save
the European peace. (Loud applause.) The Imperial Ambassador in St. Petersburg further received
instructions to inform the Russian Government, that in case our demand was rejected, we should
consider ourselves in a state of war with Russia. The Imperial Ambassador has carried out these
instructions.

"What answer Russia accorded to our demand for demobilization we do not know even to-day. Telegraphic
announcements on this point have not reached us, although matters of far less importance have
been sent over the wires. Hence, long after the expiration of the stated time, the Kaiser saw
himself compelled to mobilize our forces at 5 o'clock on August 1st.

"Simultaneously, it was necessary for us to inquire regarding France's attitude. In answer
to our definite question whether, in case of a Russo-German war, France would remain neutral,
the French Government has replied that they will act as their interests dictate. (Laughter.)
This was at least an evasion, if not a negative answer to our question.

"In spite of this, the Kaiser ordered that the French frontier should be respected. This order
was strictly obeyed with one single exception. France, who mobilized at the same time as ourselves,
declared that she would respect a ten-kilometre zone along her frontiers. (Cries of indignation.)
And what happened in reality? Their airmen have thrown bombs, cavalry patrols have violated
our territory, and companies have broken into Alsace-Lorraine. (Indignation.) Therewith, France,
although war has not yet been declared, has attacked our territories.

"As regards the single exception which I have referred, I have received the following report
from the Chief of the General Staff: In respect to French complaints of violations of her frontiers,
only one case is admitted. Against express orders an officer with a patrol from the 14th Army
Corps crossed the French frontier on August 2nd. Apparently they were shot down; only one man
has returned. But long before this single instance occurred, French airmen had penetrated into
Southern Germany and dropped bombs, and French troops had attacked our frontier-protection-troops
in the Schlucht Pass. Up till now our soldiers have confined themselves entirely to protecting
the frontier.

"So far the report from the Chief of the General Staff.

"We are now in a position of self-defence, and necessity knows no law![21] (Cries of 'Quite
right!') Our troops have occupied Luxembourg, perhaps they have already entered Belgium. (Loud
applause.) That is a breach of international law. The French Government, it is true, had declared
in Brussels that they would respect Belgian neutrality so long as their opponent respected
it. But we knew that France stood ready to invade it. (Cries of indignation.)

[Footnote 21: This sentence seems so important that I give the original: "Wir sind jetzt in
der Notwehr, und Not kennt kein Gebot!"]

"France could wait, we could not; and a French attack in our flank on the Lower Rhine might
have been disastrous for us. Thus we were compelled to ignore the protests of the Luxembourg
and Belgian Governments.

"The injustice which we commit thereby, we shall try to make good again as soon as our military
goal is attained. Anyone who fights for the highest, as we do now, may only think of how he
may hack his way through. (Hurricanes of applause; long continued hand-clapping in the whole
house and on the tribune.)

"Gentlemen, we are standing shoulder to shoulder with Austria-Hungary. Concerning England's
attitude, the declaration made by Sir Edward Grey in the House of Commons yesterday has made
the standpoint which the English Government takes up quite clear.

"We have declared to the English Government that as long as England remains neutral, our fleet
shall not attack the North Coast of France. Further, that we shall not disturb the integrity
and independence of Belgium. I repeat this declaration before the whole world and I may add
that if England will remain neutral, we are prepared--assuming mutual treatment--to undertake
no hostile operations against France's commercial marine. (Applause.)

"Gentlemen, so much for events up till now! I repeat the words of the Kaiser: 'We enter the
struggle with a clear conscience!' (Great enthusiasm.) We are fighting for the fruits of our
labours in peace, for the heritage of a great past, and for our future. The fifty years are
not yet ended within which Moltke said we should stand at arms to defend the heritage and the
achievements of 1870. The hour of great trial has struck for our nation. But we look forward
to it with absolute confidence. (Tremendous applause.)

"Our army is in the field, our fleet is ready, and behind them the entire German nation (roars
of never-ending applause and hand-clapping in the whole house)--the whole German nation! (These
words were accompanied by a gesture towards the Social Democrats.--Renewed outburst of applause,
in which the Social Democrats also joined.)

"Gentlemen, you know your duty in its entirety. The vote of credit requires no further argument,
I beg you to pass it quickly. (Loud applause.)"[22]

[Footnote 22: Berliner Tageblatt, August 5th.]

Unfortunately this eloquent exposition of Germany's case contains inaccuracies which can only
be described as conscious untruths. I have already made myself responsible for the statement:
"Lying has always been the foundation stone of German policy."[23] Earl Cromer, in commenting
on this, gives additional evidence of its veracity.[24]

[Footnote 23: "Soul of Germany," p. 192.]

[Footnote 24: The Spectator, August 7th, 1915, p. 169.]

The German Chancellor, when he justified his policy by the dictum: "Necessity knows no law,"
evidently meant that necessity also recognizes no law of truth. In any case, he remained faithful
to the traditions of his country. Although the German Press is both venal and supine, we shall
see that it has done the world a service and played its own Government a foul trick. (Der deutschen
Regierung einen bösen Streich gespielt.)

When Bethmann-Hollweg was thumping the table before him, and assuring his immediate hearers
and the world in general that the Berlin cabinet had not called up a single reservist before
five o'clock on Saturday, August 1st, he was guilty of a deliberate falsehood. On July 31st,
I left Erlangen by the 3.31 train for Nuremberg; travelling in the same train was Dr. Haack,
professor of the history of art in Erlangen University. He was accompanied by his wife and
various colleagues, including Professor Busch, who bade him farewell on the platform. Dr. Haack
is an artillery reserve officer, and he was then going to join his regiment. At 8.30 p.m. on
the same day, we spoke to Frau Haack on Nuremberg station. The lady's face was very tear-stained
and she was about to return to Erlangen alone. She told us in a broken voice that her husband
had been called up.

In "The Soul of Germany" I have given names and dates of other cases. I do not propose to disgrace
my word of honour by playing it off against the German Chancellor. But acting on the principle
of "Set a thief to catch a thief," I shall adduce some instances from German newspapers.

The Paris correspondent of the Kölnische Zeitung travelled home via Brussels; his adventures
are related at length in the K.Z. for August 4th. On August 1st he was in Brussels and complained
bitterly, in his article, about the hotel service, and excuses it by writing: "The German waiters
had all left Brussels the day before (July 31st) to join the army."

An article dated Strasbourg, August 3rd, was published in the Frankfurter Zeitung on the 6th
of the same month. The writer describes the martial scenes which he had witnessed during the
preceding week, and mentions that the officers in the garrison had received a special order
to send their wives and children away from the city several days before martial law was proclaimed.
Friday, presumably, the order came for the garrison to march to the French frontier, for on
Saturday the regiments were entrained and left Strasbourg. Our good German friend describes
the scene in the streets: "Alongside the ranks were the wives and children of the called-up
reservists, trying to keep step with the quickly moving troops. Before sunset the regiments,
all on a war-footing, had left the city."

Every layman knows that a reservist cannot enter a barracks in civilian attire, and emerge
five minutes later in full war-kit ready for the march. The German Imperial Chancellor affirms
that not one of them had been called up before five o'clock in the afternoon of that day. It
is true that neither the age of miracles nor the age of lies has passed away. Perhaps Herr
Bethmann-Hollweg could explain why it was impossible to send trunk-messages on Germany's telephone
system during the last three days of July, 1914. At least, the local papers in Bavaria asserted
that that was the case.

The Elbinger Zeitung, August 13th, contained a reservist's letter with this illuminating passage:
"During the last few days everybody was in readiness; our linen, etc., had been packed and
sent off in advance. On Friday, July 31st, the order arrived that I should present myself;
mobilization had begun. With feelings of joy I changed into my uniform and rushed to join my
company. The streets were full of frightened people with tears in their eyes. We officers pressed
each others' hands and with ardent glances exclaimed: 'At last it has come!'"

The Chancellor based his assertion that French troops had crossed the German frontier, on the
report from the Chief of the General Staff. This authority admitted that German soldiers on
August 2nd (Sunday) had violated the French frontier and continues with these words: "But long
before that French airmen had dropped bombs in Southern Germany, and French soldiers had attacked
our frontier-guards in the Schlucht Pass."

The Frankfurter Zeitung, July 31st, gives Bethmann-Hollweg and the Chief of the General Staff
the lie direct. The paragraph is dated July 30th, Kolmar, and runs: "The Schlucht Pass has
just been barricaded by German frontier guards. This is to prevent motor-lorries and such-like
vehicles from entering French territory without our permission. Several papers have announced
the alleged occupation of the Schlucht (gorge) by French troops. The report is an absolute
invention. (Die Meldung ist völlig aus der Luft gegriffen.) I have taken the trouble to look
round, and may say that the usual tourist traffic is going on as usual."

The remainder of the charge is that "long before August 2nd," French airmen had dropped bombs
on South German towns. The towns in question are Frankfort and Nuremberg. The Kölnische Zeitung
contained this paragraph on August 2nd: "A military report has just come in, stating that French
airmen dropped bombs in the neighbourhood of Nuremberg this morning. As war has not yet been
declared between France and Germany, this is a breach of international law."

Two remarks are necessary to supplement the above "news." Firstly, in the Reichstag, the Chancellor
said this attack had occurred "long before August 2nd." Secondly, the Cologne Gazette received
the report from the military authorities. That betrays the source from which all these lies
emanated.

The author has in his possession a Nuremberg paper (Fränkische Tagepost) for the whole of August,
1914. It contains absolutely no mention of any air raid on or near Nuremberg. If bombs had
been dropped in the vicinity, it is quite unthinkable that the local papers should contain
no report of the affair.

President Poincaré, on July 15th, 1915, declared the Nuremberg flight to be a fable. The Fränkischer
Kurier (a Nuremberg newspaper) on August 1st, 1915, contains an article which states that the
news of these alleged airmen, whom nobody saw, was spread throughout the length and breadth
of the German Empire. This same paper ridicules the whole affair.

Another extract gives the key to the whole mystery. "Yesterday (Monday, August 3rd), at 8 p.m.,
the following official announcement was given out for publication.

"Up till now, the German troops, in obedience to orders given, have not crossed the French
frontier. In contrast to this since yesterday (August 2nd) French troops have attacked our
frontier posts without any declaration of war. They have crossed the German frontier at several
points, although only a few days ago the French Government assured us that they would keep
a zone ten kilometres wide free from their troops. Since last night French troops hold German
places in occupation. Since yesterday bomb-dropping airmen have come into Baden and Bavaria;
further, by violating Belgian neutrality, they have fled over Belgian territory into the Rhine
province and tried to destroy our railways. Thus France has begun an attack upon us, and thereby
created a state of war. The safety of the Empire compels us to take defensive measures. The
Kaiser has given the necessary orders. The German Ambassador in Paris has been instructed to
demand his passports."[25]

[Footnote 25: From the Berliner Lokal Anzeiger of August 4th.]

Germany had no earthly excuse to begin war on France, and imitating the noble example of Bismarck
in forging the notorious Ems telegram which precipitated the 1870 war, the German military
authorities forged the "news" of alleged attacks by French airmen and French troops. The German
Official Press Bureau completed this vile, criminal work.

Although the point is proved, a few more examples of the "airmen" legend will be of interest.
"Berlin, August 2nd. Last night a hostile airship was observed flying from Kerprich to Andernach.
Hostile aeroplanes were observed flying from Düren to Cologne. A French aeroplane was shot
down by Wesel." (From the München-Augsburger Abendzeitung, August 3rd.)

The Frankfurter Zeitung, August 4th, contains three separate detailed accounts of French airmen
dropping bombs on Frankfort railway station during the previous night. The third account will
suffice.

"The military authorities in Frankfort were informed last night that a hostile airman was flying
in the direction from Darmstadt to Frankfort. At ten minutes past one the noise of the propellers
as well as bursting bombs was heard by those standing on the command-bridge of the Central
Station. In the dark night it was impossible to see the flying-machine. As it approached the
station, where all lights were out, fifty to sixty soldiers stationed on the command-bridge
fired at the aeroplane, which soon moved off in the direction of the Southern Station. There,
too, it came under a heavy fire from soldiers and policemen. Nothing whatever has been found
on the ground or at the station, not even parts of the bombs. It is assumed that the hand-bombs
exploded in the air."[26]

[Footnote 26: Yes, they burst in the air, aus der sie gegriffen worden sind! Author.]

In peace times no German editor would dare to refuse any contribution sent to him by the military
authorities. The above airman-story sufficiently illustrates the state of affairs in war time.

"Chemnitz, August 4th. During the past night, between 3 and 4 a.m., a French airman dropped
bombs on Chemnitz. Bombs exploded in the streets without, however, doing any damage. Apparently
the shots fired at the aeroplane were unfortunately without result." Magdeburgische Zeitung,
August 5th.

This is an excellent example of how the Press trick is worked. A lying report is published
in a city hundreds of miles away from the scene of the alleged occurrence. The extract where
it was alleged that a French airman was shot down at Wesel, on the Dutch frontier, was published
in a Munich paper, four hundred miles away.

The last and supreme lie in Bethmann-Hollweg's speech is the most insidious of all. The Chancellor
sketched a truly moving picture of Germany beseeching Austria to find a modus vivendi between
herself and Russia. Germany claims that up to the last minute of the last fatal week she was
working for peace. Bethmann-Hollweg insinuates that on July 31st a last decision was to have
fallen in Vienna; he does not tell us what that decision would have been, but he maintains
that Russia's military preparations forestalled it and so the decision was never arrived at.
Thus Russia destroyed the last hope of peace; the Chancellor falsely led his hearers to believe
that it was a certain hope and that the European peace would have been saved.

It is useless to choose one's words in writing of German diplomacy. This is a base lie. Austria
arrived at her decision previous to sending her ultimatum to Serbia. This momentous decision
was, that Russia had no right to intervene in the quarrel, which means, in other words, that
Russia had absolutely no right to speak or use her influence in a crisis affecting the destiny
of the Slavonic peoples, neither had Russia any right to move in a crisis which would disturb
the balance of power in the Balkans and in Europe. It was merely these rights which Russia
throughout the crisis endeavoured to establish; if they had been recognized there would have
been no war.

In order to prove what the Austro-German standpoint was, and that from first to last never
changed, reference must be made to the Austrian Red Book.[27] On page 24: Sir Edward Grey was
informed by Count Mensdorf on July 24th, "and I (Mensdorf) repeated to him (Grey) many times,
that we should stick to that view."

[Footnote 27: Oesterreichisch-ungarisches Rotbuch. Vienna, 1915.]

Page 25. Count Czécsen in Paris informed French Minister: "It is a question which can only
be settled between Serbia and ourselves," on July 24th.

On the same day the Austrian Ambassador emphasized the same point in an interview with the
Russian Foreign Minister--pp. 27-8.

During the evening Monsieur Sasonow had interviews with both the German and Austrian Ambassadors.
The latter telegraphed to Vienna: "My German colleague at once pointed out to M. Sasonow that
Austria would not accept any interference in her differences with Serbia and that Germany would
also not permit it."--p. 29.

That gives the situation in its simplest form, and without making further quotations, it will
suffice to cite the dates on which it was re-emphasized:

  July 25th  in St. Petersburg,   p. 89
    "  27th  "  "       "         p. 101
    "  28th  " Berlin by Germany, p. 116
    "   "    " London by Austria, p. 123
    "  29th  " St. Petersburg, "  p. 128
    "  30th  " Berlin,         "  p. 130
    "  30th  " St. Petersburg, "  p. 131
    "  31st  " Vienna,         "  p. 133
  August 1st " St. Petersburg, "  p. 136

Moreover, no less a personage than the Kaiser's brother confirmed this view. In Prince Heinrich's
telegram to the King of England, July 30th, the following passage occurs: "If you really and
sincerely wish to prevent this terrible misfortune (a European war), may I propose that you
should exercise your influence on France and Russia to keep them both neutral (in the Austro-Serbian
quarrel). In my opinion this would be of the greatest service. I consider this a certain means
and perhaps the only possibility of preserving European peace."

Prince Heinrich expressed no hope that Austria could be persuaded to make any concession, but
merely requested King George to exercise his influence to get Russia to accept a position impossible
to herself and incompatible with the balance of power in Europe.

The rock of Germanic obstinacy was seated in Vienna, whether Germany was the prime mover in
erecting it remains to be proved. Germany knew full well that European peace would be shattered
on that rock, yet there is no fragment of evidence to show that she tried to remove it; but
there is overwhelming proof that she encouraged Austria to stand by it, thus causing a European
conflagration.

And as if the above were insufficient to prove that the German Imperial Chancellor was guilty
of conscious falsification, Austria put one more nail in the coffin of European peace on September
24th, 1914, when it issued an official communication to the Press, reiterating that Austria
had never dreamed of departing from the attitude which she first took up.[28]

[Footnote 28: "Die Schuld am Weltkriege" ("The Guilt for the World War"), by an Austrian. Vienna,
1915, p. 59.]

Germany's aim was to employ the Serajewo crime as a lever to put Russia, as a vital force,
out of the domain of European politics. In spite of denials, there is reason to believe that
Austria was inclined to listen to reason, but Germany forestalled and prevented this by despatching
an ultimatum to Russia and then declaring war.

A few other points in Bethmann-Hollweg's speech deserve brief notice. He quotes Germany's threats,
but not one word from the peaceful overtures which were so often mentioned. He fails to cite
any single point which Austria had yielded at Germany's advice. Further, no proof of Germany's
vaunted "mediatory action" is discoverable either in the speech or the diplomatic documents
published by the Central Powers.

In regard to his justification of the violation of Belgian neutrality, the civilized world
has already passed judgment, and in this place it only remains to point out that the four hundred
members of the Reichstag cheered the Chancellor's announcement. This alone is a sufficiently
severe comment on the conceptions of right and justice which direct the proceedings of Germany's
highest legislative body.

It evidently did not occur to the Reichstag or Germany's Imperial Chancellor that, if necessity
knows no law which respects a neutrality guaranteed by Germany, then at a later date necessity
would also recognize no law which protected Belgian territory after Germany had conquered it.
A lamb in the jaws of a lion is in a truly dangerous position, and although the outlook may
be black, it is still wiser for the lamb to try and avoid the lion's jaws.

Bethmann-Hollweg saw the mote of Greater-Serbianism in Serbia's eye, but he was peculiarly
anxious not to perceive the beam of Pan-Germanism which has blinded Germany's vision for a
generation, and is the one and only cause for the rapid increase in European armaments.

Before consigning the German Chancellor's Pecksniffian oration to well-deserved oblivion, there
is one other fact to state, because it is of immediate interest to Great Britain. In the person
of Bethmann-Hollweg the German Government stood before the world on August 4th, 1914, and endeavoured
to prove that Germany was attacked, and that her conscience was clear. There are even Britons
who have got stuck in Bethmann-Hollweg's peace-lime. Yet it would be interesting if the German
Government would explain why the civilian population was ordered to leave Heligoland on the
afternoon of Friday, July 31st. They were allowed twenty-four hours within which to leave the
island, and one who was in the exodus describes the scene in the Leipziger Neueste Nachrichten
for August 12th. Early on Saturday morning the civilians proceeded on to the landing-stage,
where several steamers were waiting. "Suddenly the Königin Luise started off without taking
any passengers on board, and soon disappeared under full steam."

This was the boat which laid mines round the mouth of the Thames. Although the German Chancellor
protested his desire for peace with England as late as August 4th, it seems quite evident from
the events in Heligoland that war with this country had been decided upon on July 31st.

CHAPTER IV

MOBILIZATION

"Munich.--Evening after evening masses of people thronged the streets. The heavy, oppressive
atmosphere weighed upon the spirit--a leaden pressure which increased with every hour. Then
came the stirring events on the evening of July 3ist, when the drums beat 'general march' on
the Marienplatz, and a commissioner read the articles of war to a crowd numbered by thousands.
Thirty drummers and commissioners in motors rushed through the streets of the city.

"On Saturday evening, August 1st, the general order for mobilization was proclaimed from the
offices of the Münchener Neuesten Nachrichten. A deep solemnity fell upon the masses of spectators
and the crowd fell into rank to march to the Royal Palace, from a window of which King Ludwig
spoke words of comfort and inspiration. Still singing the 'Wacht am Rhein,' this river of humanity
flowed on to the 'Englischen Garten,' at the corner of which stands the Austrian Legation.
A gentleman addressed the representative of our beloved ally, who sounded in his reply the
note of 'faithfulness unto death.'

"And now from out the stifling depression of the leaden weight of the previous days there arose
a terrible, united will, a single mighty thought. The whole of a great and powerful people
was aroused, fired by one solemn resolve--to act; advance on the enemy, and smash him to the earth!

"Dresden.--I was sitting in the garden of a suburban restaurant; above me were the dark masses
of chestnut trees, while before us, above the railway, was a long strip of bright, summer-night
sky. There seemed to be something gloomy and uncanny in the air; the lamps blinked maliciously;
a spirit of still expectation rested on the people; furtive glances were cast from time to
time at the near embankment. Military trains were expected, and we listened nervously to the
noises of the night. The first troop-transports; where were they going--against Russia or to
the French frontier? It was whispered that the troops would only be transported by night.

"At last a pounding thud came through the stillness of the night, and soon two colossal engines
were silhouetted against the sky, like fire-spitting monsters. Their roar seemed more sinister
than usual. Heavy forebodings rumbled out in the rocking and rolling of the endless coaches--the
clang of a future, pregnant with death and pain. Suddenly the tables were empty; everyone rushed
towards the lighted compartments of the train, and a scene of indescribable jubilation followed
as train after train of armed men rushed by into the night.

"Sometimes a troubled father was heard to exclaim: 'If only the first battles were fought and
won!' Yet calm confidence prevailed from the very beginning. But the sight of the quiet, machine-like
completion of the mobilization strengthened our trust, even though a justifiable indignation
and rage filled our hearts at Europe's dastardly attack on the Central States. Hate flamed
highest, however, when England declared war against us.

"There are several reasons for this. In the north of Germany, the Englishman is looked upon
as the European who stands nearest the German, and with whom we have the most sympathy. His
personal reliability and the manly firmness of his bearing, the culture of English social life,
English art and style, have given Imperial Germany many points of contact and grounds for sympathy.
Our historical interests have never collided. Then we suddenly became aware that this country,
under the mask of friendship, had egged on the whole of Europe to attack us. Not because we
had injured English feelings or interests, but solely to destroy a competitor and divide his
coat of many colours.

"No political necessity compelled modern Carthage to declare war on us, but merely the avowed
aim to do a good piece of business by the war. Without England's intrigues Europe would never
have dared to attack us. In our case, therefore, hate has sprung out of disappointed love.
England has become our mortal enemy, just as Russia is Austria's. In a word, the two Central
Powers are inspired by moral superiority over their enemies, and are determined to wage war
on them to the last drop of blood, and if fate permits it, to settle them off and settle up
with them once for all.

"At the commencement of the mobilization the railway time-tables in force were cancelled; railway
traffic ceased, and only slow local-trains ran, stopping at every station to pick up the men.
During the nights a gigantic transport of troops went on to the frontiers. From that moment
the sale of alcohol on the stations was prohibited. The publication of news concerning troop
movements was suppressed, in order to veil our objective and to keep secret our strength on
the various frontiers.

"The trains in the Tyrol were decked with wreaths and flowers. They bore Germans from the most
southerly corners of our neutral ally--Italy. Members of the Wehrkraftverein (Boy Scouts) inspected
the trains at every station, and it is said that a Serb was found bound fast underneath one
of the carriages. Serbian scoundrels were found on all sides; if one of them had succeeded
in destroying the Brenner line the whole plan of mobilization would have been disturbed. Therefore
sentinels were placed along the whole line and strong guards protected every tunnel. At night
all lights were put out and those on the engines covered up; even the stations were not illuminated--everywhere
darkness.

"Slowly feeling its way, the train crept over the Brenner--it took twelve hours; in Innsbruck
the station was crowded with Germans to welcome the warriors, and the ancient hills echoed
again and again the 'Wacht am Rhein.' The solemnity which had marked the first days in Munich
had given place to boisterous joy. Thousands of men in mountain costume had flocked into Munich
to offer themselves as volunteers, and the streets and station rang with their jodeln! (the
peculiar cry of Alpine herdsmen).

"Outside the station lay vast quantities of materials for the Flying Corps, and innumerable
motor-cars. A regiment of artillery was just leaving, while a band was in the centre of the
station; the rhythm of the kettle-drums rolled mightily, and the music clashed in the huge
central hall; thousands of voices joined in, then helmets, hats, caps, rifles and swords were
waved and the train moved off amid shouts: 'Go for them! Cut them down!' ('Drauf auf die Kerle!
Haut sie zusammen!')"[29]

[Footnote 29: Colonel Frobenius: "Durch Not und Tod" ("Through Distress and Death"). Leipzig,
1915, p. 12 et seq.]

"If I live to be a hundred I shall never forget these days. They are the greatest in our history.
We never dreamed that anything so overwhelming could be experienced on earth. Only three weeks
ago and we should have been quite incapable of imagining its like. The feeling that we have
experienced something overpowering, something which we cannot utter, overwhelms us all. We
see it in each other's faces and feel it in the pressure of a hand. Words are too weak, so
each is silent about what he feels. We are conscious of one thing alone: Germany's heart has
appeared to us!

"At last we see each other as we are, and that is the indescribable something--the birth of
this great time. Never have we been so earnest and never so glad. Every other thought, every
other feeling has gone. What we have thought and felt before was all unreality, mere ghosts;
day has dawned and they have fled. The whole land bristles with arms and every German heart
is filled with trust. If we were always as we are to-day--one heart and one voice--then the
whole world would have to bow before us. But we no longer knew ourselves, we had forgotten
our real nature. We were so many and so divided, and each wanted only to be himself. How was
it that such madness could have blinded us, and discord weakened us?

"Now we realize our strength and see what we can achieve, for in spite of all we have retained
our integrity; we have suffered no injury to the soul. Germany's soul had slept awhile and
now awakes like a giant refreshed, and we can hardly recollect what it was all like only three
weeks ago, when each lived for himself, when we were at best only parties, not a people. Each
knew not the other, because he knew not himself. In unholy egoism everyone had forgotten his
highest will. Now each has found his true will again, and that is proved--for we have only one.

"In all German hearts flames the same holy wrath. A sacred wrath which sanctifies and heals.
Every wound heals; we are again healthy and whole. Praise be to God for this war which delivered
us on the first day from German quarrelsomeness! When the days of peace return we must prove
that we deserve to have lived through this holy German war. Then no word must be spoken, no
deed done on German soil which would be unworthy of these sublime days.

"Groups stand at the street corners reading the latest news. One counts aloud how many enemies
we have: there are already six. A silence ensues, till someone says: 'Many enemies, great honour,
and we shall win, for our cause is just!' Such utterances can be heard every day. That is German
faith; human might does not decide, but God's justice! That is the Supreme blessing of this
great time; we put our trust in the spirit. Modern Germans have never breathed before so pure
an atmosphere, for Germany's soul has appeared to us.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I am going to pronounce a blessing on this war, the blessing which is on all lips, for we
Germans, no matter in what part of the world we are, all bless, bless and bless again this
world war. I do not intend to become lyrical. Lyric is so far from me that in all these three
months I have not composed a single war poem. No, I shall endeavour to count up quite calmly,
unlyrically, what we have seen during these three months: point for point, the whole list of
surprises, for they have all been surprises, one after the other.

"Only a few days ago a high State official said to me: 'Let us confess at once that in all
Europe nobody believed in this war; everybody had prepared for it, but nobody thought it possible--not
even those who wanted war.'

"All thinking men considered that the interwoven economic dependence on each other among the
nations, was so strong that none dare commit suicide by commencing a war. Thus we spoke to
each other, and that seemed an axiom. Further, it seemed to be true that even if a madman let
loose the dogs of war, then it would be all over in a fortnight. The man in the street imagined
that it would be a kind of parade (Aufmarsch), a mobilization test, and the power which succeeded
best would be the victor, for no country in the world was strong enough to stand the enormous
cost for longer than three weeks.

"Now three months have gone, and we have stood the strain, and we can bear it for another three,
six months, a year, or as many years as it must be. The calculation was wrong, all the calculations
were wrong: the reality of this war surpasses everything which we had imagined, and it has
been glorious to experience on so grand a scale that reality always surpasses the conception.
Even that is not true which we learned in all the schools and read in all the books--that every
war is an awful misfortune. Even this war is horrible; yes, but our salvation. It seems so
to us, and so it has appeared to us from the very first day onwards.

"That first day will remain in our memories for ever; never in all our lives had we experienced
anything so grand, and we had never believed it possible to experience anything so magnificent.
Word for word Bismarck's prophecy (1888) has come true: 'It must be a war to which the whole
nation gives its assent; it must be a national war, conducted with an enthusiasm like that
of 1870, when we were ruthlessly attacked. Then all Germany from the Memel to Lake Constance
will blaze up like a powder-mine and the whole land bristle with bayonets.' The war which Bismarck
prophesied was this war, and what he foretold came to pass, and we saw it with our eyes. We
saw the German mobilization with eyes which since then have been consecrate.

"All enthusiasm is splendid, even in an individual, be he who he may and for whatever cause
you like. In enthusiasm everything good in a man appears, while the common and vulgar in him
sinks away. Any enthusiasm either of groups or societies in which the individual ego loses
itself is grand, but the mighty enthusiasm of a powerful people is overwhelming. This was,
however, an enthusiasm of a peculiar sort--it was well disciplined, an enthusiasm combined
with and controlled by the highest order.

"In this the fundamental secret of German power was revealed: to remain calm in enthusiasm,
cold amidst fire and still obedient to duty in a tornado of passion. Then we were all inspired
by the thought and feeling: 'Nobody can achieve that, for in order to be able to do it we have
had to perform a huge intellectual and spiritual task. It is not alone the result of the last
century and a half; no, that work has been going on for nearly a thousand years.'

"What is the spirit of our German mysticism, the spirit of Eckhart and Tauler, except: Drunkenness
of the soul in a waking condition? The accepted law on which all great German deeds rest, is:
to dovetail enthusiasm with discipline and order. From our Gothic, through German barock to
Frederick the Great and Kant, on to the classical period--what does all that mean if it is
not the architecture of one huge feeling? The soul runs riot in its imaginings and therewith
the intellect builds. The ravings of the soul provide the materials with which the mind builds.

"What is German music from Bach to Beethoven and from Beethoven to Wagner--yes, even to Richard
Strauss--but enthusiasm with discipline? German music has been our mobilization; it has gone
on just as in a partitur by Richard Wagner--absolute rapture with perfect precision!

"Hence when we saw the miracle of this mobilization--all Germany's military manhood packed
in railway trains, rolling through the land, day by day and night after night, never a minute
late and never a question for which the right answer was not ready and waiting--when we saw
all this, we were not astonished, because it was no miracle; it was nothing other than a natural
result of a thousand years of work and preparation; it was the net profit of the whole of German
history.

"At the German mobilization not only our brave soldiers, reserves and militia (Landwehrmänner
und Landstürmler) entered the field, but the whole of Germany's historic past marched with
them. It was this which inspired the unshakable confidence which has endured from the first
day of war. In truth, the dear Fatherland has every reason to be calm.

"In the meantime something more has happened: all in a moment we became Germans! We held our
breaths when the Kaiser uttered these words. This too arose out of the deepest depths of Germany's
yearnings; it sounded like an eagle-cry of our most ancient longings. Germany's soul has long
pined to tear itself from its narrow confines (verwerden, as Eckhart, or sich entselbsten,
as Goethe put it), to lay aside self-will and sacrifice itself, to be absorbed in the whole,
and yet still to serve (Wagner). And this eternal German yearning had never reached fulfilment,
but self-interest and egoism have always been stronger; every German has been at war with all
the others. 'For every man to go his own way,' said Goethe, 'is the peculiar characteristic
of the German race. I have never seen them united except in their hate for Napoleon. I am curious
to see what they will do when he is banished to the other side of the Rhine.' And Goethe was
right: no sooner was the land freed from the oppressor, than each began again to think and
act only for himself. Hence, when we first learned of the Kaiser's words we felt almost a joyous
fear. If it were only true that now there were only Germans! But on the very next day our eyes
saw and our ears heard that at last there were only Germans, and with that, all pain and fear
was forgotten. If war is awful, even a just war, a holy war--even for the victor too, we will
endure all that, for it is as nothing; no sacrifice is too great for this prize--that we are
all only Germans.

"Since the Emperor spoke those words three months have passed, and there have only been Germans
in the land. These three months have brought much sorrow to German hearts, for there is hardly
a home which does not lament a father, a son, or a brother. Nevertheless, one may say that
since our existence as a nation, Germany has never been more joyous, in the best sense of the
word, than in this time of suffering. Through our tears the noblest joy has shone; not alone
at the success of our arms; it is not from pride at fighting against a world of enemies; it
is not the fact that we are now assured of a future which in July last we could not have imagined;
it is not the feeling of power, of which even we ourselves did not know. That shining joy springs
from deeper reasons. We are glad because we have found each other; we did not know each other
before. Indeed, no one knew himself. Now we know each other, and above all, each knows himself.

"It was Bismarck who uttered these terrible words: 'When the unoccupied German must give up
the struggle and strife which has become dear to him, and offer the hand of reconciliation,
then he loses all joy in life. Civil war is always the most terrible thing which any land can
have. But with us Germans it is still more terrible, because it is fought out by us with more
love for the strife than any other war.'

"Does it not sound truly horrible for the greatest benefactor of a nation, which has to thank
him for having realized its century-old dream of unity, to say in all calm and as something
quite obvious, that his own nation engages in a civil war 'with more love' than any other war?
And wherever we look in Bismarck's speeches, the same complaint is found which had been the
eternal lamentation of Goethe--the lament over the lack of faith and will of the Germans.

"How will it be this time? Will it be as after the Seven Years' War, after the War of Liberation,
after 1870? Will it be again all in vain? As soon as the Fatherland is secure, will every German
once again cease to be a German in order to become some kind of -crat or -ist or -er? This
time it will be more difficult, for from this war he will return no more into the same Fatherland.
It will have expanded; the German Fatherland will be greater. Arndt's poems must be written
over again: no longer merely 'as far as the German tongue is spoken.' Germany will stretch
beyond that limit, and in it the German will have work to do.

"In his speech Bismarck spoke of the 'unoccupied'; but in all probability after this war, for
years to come, there will be no 'unoccupied' Germans. They will be fully occupied with the
new organization. What the sword has won, we shall keep. 'The pike in the European carp-pond,'
said Bismarck once, 'prevent us from becoming carp. They compel us to exertions which voluntarily
we should hardly be willing to make. They compel us to hold together, which is in direct contradiction
to our innermost nature.'

"As we cannot change our nature, it will be good if we take over for good and all a number--a
very considerable number,--of these European pike. That will occupy the German peasant and
give an outlet to his superfluous energies. There will be no leisure-energy to discharge itself
in party strife. Further, we must build Europe up again. It stood on rotten foundations, and
now it has fallen to pieces. We shall erect it again on a German basis, and there will be work
enough."[30]

[Footnote 30: Hermann Bahr: "Kriegssegen" ("The Blessings of War"). Published in Munich, 1915,
p. 5 et seq.]

CHAPTER V

WARS AND RUMOURS OF WARS

It would be more than human if the German nation had actually realized the lyrical picture
painted by two well-known writers in the preceding chapter. German newspapers, it is true,
prove that the national unity so loudly acclaimed was no empty word; moreover, they show conclusively
that grumblers and half-hearted enthusiasts were not lacking. It would probably be more correct
to describe them as "sober-minded patriots." These elements had, however, to use a colloquialism,
an "exceedingly rough time."

The author has already contended that the German is innately brutal, and in proof thereof quoted
the awful statistics of brutal crimes published by the Imperial Statistic Office, Berlin. The
present work will contain a picture of the natural unfolding of this "innate brutality" in
Germany itself during war time, and on the battlefields of Belgium and France.

There is no doubt whatever that a systematic, officially-organized press campaign was carried
on to madden the people and arouse blood-lust, successively against Russians, Belgians, French
and English. One is almost inclined to exclaim: Providence caused some of the fruits of this
blood-lashing to be reaped in Germany!

"Yesterday evening in the Riebeckbräu another free fight took place, and quieter guests who
refused to take part in the patriotic screaming of the students and other mob elements were
badly ill-treated. Beer-glasses, ash-trays, chairs and other missiles were thrown about freely.
One man was struck on the back of the head with a beer-glass, causing the blood to flow in
streams. Helpless women, too, were beaten and threatened."[31]

[Footnote 31: Leipziger Volkszeitung, August 1st, 1914.]

Three days later the same journal contained a public appeal from the Mayor of Leipzig, begging
the inhabitants to preserve public order: "If the disturbances in the streets, public houses,
etc., should--contrary to our expectations--continue, then we shall be compelled to take severe
steps to suppress them."

On the same page there is another report of similar scenes, in one of which a workman was "horribly
ill-treated" by eight others. The army authorities were compelled to issue a still more drastic
warning on August 6th.

A victim reported his adventures in another Leipzig paper[32]: "I have just read your article
admonishing the 'hot-heads' to keep cool. The General commanding Leipzig has also warned members
of the public not to allow excitement to lead them to 'deeds of brutality and crime.' I am
a good German patriot, and yet nearly lost my life at the hands of my own countrymen."

[Footnote 32: Leipziger Neuesten Nachrichten, August 9th.]

The "good patriot" then relates that during the week he had spent an evening at a concert in
a beer-garden. Patriotic music was the order of the day, and as each national song was sung
he stood up with the rest of the company. Towards the close of the evening he felt unwell and
remained sitting, an indiscretion which he truthfully says "nearly cost him his life." Three
skull wounds several inches long, his body beaten black and blue, and ruined clothes, was the
punishment for not joining in with the "hurrah-patriots."

Dozens of similar instances might be cited, but for the sake of impartiality it is preferable
to allow a German to generalize: "The rage of the populace has found vent not only against
foreigners, but also against good German patriots, indeed even against German officers."[33]

[Footnote 33: Leipziger Volkszeitung, August 12th.]

Probably one of the most glaring instances of German indifference to brutality is afforded
by the following incident. A commercial traveller named Lüderitz, aged twenty-three, murdered
his sweetheart in a Leipzig hotel by strangling her with his necktie. He alleged that he had
killed the girl at her wish, and the judge sentenced him to three years, six months' imprisonment--not
even penal servitude! The report concludes[34]: "As the accused has been called up to serve
in the army, he was allowed to go free for the present." Which means that if he survives the
war he may be called upon to undergo his sentence.

[Footnote 34: Ibid., August 28th.]

A South German newspaper[35] advised "German wives and maidens to avoid wearing striking costumes,
dresses and hats. Such restrictions are not only desirable in the serious time through which
our dear Fatherland is passing, but such precautions are urgently necessary in the interests
of personal safety. For amidst the excitement which has unfortunately taken possession of our
people, ladies are not safe, either from insult or assault, in spite of the fact that the police
do their best to protect them."

[Footnote 35: München-Augsburger Abendzeitung, August 5th.]

These are the bare facts, in a very limited selection, as regards German brutality towards
Germans. In the light of these events the question suggests itself: How did foreigners fare
in the midst of this Kulturvolk? The answer is simple and expressive: "Not half has ever been
told;" yet the German newspapers contain more than sufficient materials to prove that the floodgates
of barbarism were opened wide.

When martial law was proclaimed the Berlin Government caused official announcements to be issued
throughout the whole country, requesting the public to assist in preventing tunnels, bridges,
railways, etc., from being destroyed by foreign agents and spies. The whole country at once
became a detective office of madmen!

Ample proof is at hand to show that this lashing of the public mind into brutal fury was the
calculated work of the German authorities. "We are now absolutely dependent upon reports issued
by the authorities; we do not know whether they are correct or whether they are merely intended
to inflame public opinion. Thus reports have been officially circulated of Russian patrols
crossing our frontiers, and from Nuremberg of French airmen dropping bombs on the railways
in that neighbourhood, whereupon diplomatic relations with both countries were broken off."[36]

[Footnote 36: Leipziger Volkszeitung, August 3rd.]

The whole Press, with the exception of at least some Social Democratic organs, joined in a
chorus of hatred and suspicion against Russians residing in Germany. In bitterness towards
the Russian State the Socialist journals were solid in their hostility, but the author has
only discovered expressions of abhorrence in their columns concerning the ill-treatment, even
murder, of innocent foreigners in Germany. This fact must be recorded to their honour.

"Certain circles of Leipzig's population are at present possessed by patriotic delirium and
at the same time by a spy-mania which luxuriates like tropical vegetation. In reality, love
of Fatherland is something quite other than those feelings which find expression in the present
noisy and disgusting scenes. These mob patriots must remember that in their mad attacks on
'Serbs' and 'Russians'--that is to say, everybody who has black hair and a beard, whom they
at once conclude must belong to those nations--they are endangering the lives of hundreds of
thousands of Germans in France and Russia."[37]

[Footnote 37: Ibid., August 4th.]

On the following day the same journal contained another detailed report: "In spite of official
appeals to the public to display self-possession in these serious times, the nationalist mob
continues to behave in the most scandalous manner, both in the streets and public restaurants,
etc. The wildest outbreaks of brutal passions occur, and no one with black hair and dark complexion
is secure from outbursts of rage on the part of the fanatics. Shortly before 5 p.m. yesterday
a gentleman in the uniform of a German artillery officer was sitting with a lady in the Café
Felsche; apparently somebody 'denounced' him for a Russian officer in disguise. The police
accompanied by army officers arrested and led him into the street, where they were received
by a yelling crowd. The enraged mob forced its way past the guards and beat the 'spy' with
sticks, umbrellas, etc., till streams of blood ran down his face, his uniform being torn to
shreds. The officers and police guarding him drew their weapons, but were unable to protect
him from further brutal treatment; indeed, it was with the greatest difficulty that they succeeded
in bringing him to a place of safety."[38]

[Footnote 38: The unfortunate suspect was in truth a German officer.]

On the last page of the same edition there is an advertisement which helps to explain why the
appeals for cool blood were useless.

  "APPEAL!"

  "Among the foreigners in our country, especially Russians, there are a
  large number who, it is to be feared, are guilty of espionage and
  attempts to disturb our mobilization. While the Russians engaged in
  work on our farms may be allowed to continue their work in peace, it
  is necessary to watch carefully those who are studying here, or are
  permanent residents.

  "I call upon the inhabitants to take part in the task of observation,
  and when strong suspicion is aroused to see to it that the suspects
  are arrested and handed over to the civil authorities.

  "The protection of our railway lines and stations, telegraph wires,
  etc., demands the most careful attention during the next few days.

              "VON LAFFERT,
              "General in Command.
  "Leipzig, August 4th."

An interesting contrast to the above is a police order, issued by the Director of the Stuttgart
police.[39]

[Footnote 39: Leipziger Neuesten Nachrichten, August 9th.]

  "Policemen! The populace is going absolutely mad. The streets are
  crowded with old women of both sexes who have nothing else to do but
  disgrace themselves. Each sees in his neighbour a Russian or French
  spy, and imagines that it is his duty to thrash both him and the
  policeman who intervenes, till the blood flows; if not that, then at
  least to cause an enormous crowd to gather in giving the alleged spy
  over to the police. Clouds become hostile airmen, stars are mistaken
  for airships and the cross-bars of bicycles are thought to be bombs;
  bridges have been blown up, telegraph and telephone wires cut in the
  middle of Stuttgart; spies have been shot and water supplies poisoned!
  It is impossible to imagine what will happen when serious events
  really come.

  "It has been proved that up till now there has not been the slightest
  reason for all this alarm; but yet, judging by appearances, we are
  living in a huge lunatic asylum. Everyone, if he is not a coward or a
  dangerous idler, should be quietly doing his duty, for the times are
  already serious enough.

  "Policemen! continue to keep your heads cool. Be men as you were
  formerly, and not women. Do not allow yourselves to be frightened at
  straws; keep your eyes open and do your duty!

  "BILLINGER,

  "Director of Police.

  "Stuttgart."

It is not surprising that this humorous police commander expressed his indignation in the forceful
Swabian manner. Here are a few telegrams which had been sent to Berlin from Stuttgart, or still
more probable, manufactured by the official Press Bureau in Berlin.

"A considerable number of Russians and French--including several women--have been arrested
in Stuttgart to-day under the suspicion of practising espionage. One of these arrests was made
in the top-floor of the Central Post Office, where the apparatus connected with the telegraph
office are to be found.

"More arrests are about to be made in the environs. It has been established that numerous attempts
have been made during the last few days to blow up the railway bridges. In Freudenstadt a gypsy's
wagon was seized which contained a quantity of explosives."[40]

[Footnote 40: Berliner Tageblatt, August 3rd.]

"Some of our contemporaries (Oh, shade of Pecksniff!--Author) announced yesterday that in Stuttgart
eighty, according to other reports, ninety millions in French gold had been seized. In answer
to our inquiry at the principal office of the Würtemberg State Railways we were informed that
the statements are pure inventions."[41]

[Footnote 41: Berliner Lokal-Anzeiger, August 4th.]

Another Socialist paper which denounced this campaign of lies in its columns deserves quotation.
"The spy-mania luxuriates; every Russian is in danger of assault by over-heated patriots. The
nation, however, ought to know that the Russians in our midst are labourers, students, travellers
and business men; it is exceeding rare for one of this class, to sell himself to the scoundrels
who follow the dirty practices of espionage.

"Civilization and good-breeding demand that everyone should respect the dictates of international
law, and treat the peaceful citizens of a land with which we are at war, with decency.

"Especially those wretches deserve to have their knuckles rapped who circulate such infamous
bear-baiting news as the alleged attempt on the Crown Prince's life by Russian students."[42]

[Footnote 42: Vorwärts, August 7th.]

"The General commanding the Leipzig district has issued the following reply in answer to an
inquiry by the civil authorities: We know nothing at all of an alleged attempt on the life
of the Kaiser or the Crown Prince. The commanding General von Laffert has never uttered the
words ascribed to him, that the Kaiser had been murdered. These reports must be contradicted
with the greatest energy."[43]

[Footnote 43: Leipziger Tageblatt, August 3rd.]

The following extracts are of the greatest importance, for they prove beyond doubt the source
of these lies, and the cold-blooded, calculated manner in which they were circulated by the
German authorities:

"The decision as to what may be published in newspapers, is now in the hands of the military
commander in each district.

"The regulations issued by the military authorities, force certain restrictions upon us and
threaten the existence of our journals. As regards our principles and convictions no change
has taken place."[44]

[Footnote 44: The editor of the Vorwärts to his readers on August 1st.]

"Berlin, August 10th.--Major Nicolai, director of the Press department of the General Staff,
received representatives of the Press to-day and communicated to them, inter alia, the following
details: Our army commanders decline to enter into competition with the lie-factories abroad.
They will convince the world that truth is on our side, and that we spread neither lies nor
coloured reports. We hope in a short time to be able to prove how much our enemies have sinned
against the truth.

"What have we achieved up till now? The dreaded invasion of Russian cavalry was broken up by
our frontier guards alone. Indeed, in many cases only the Landwehr was needed to throw back
the invaders. What about the destruction of important buildings, railways, bridges and such
like? Nothing at all has happened."[45]

[Footnote 45: Condensed translation of the report in the Leipziger Volkszeitung, August 11th.]

On another page of the same issue a long official army order to the Press is given in which
this paragraph occurs: "All news given out by Wolff's Telegraph-Bureau may only be quoted literally
as they stand and the source named by the initials W.T.-B."

It is thus clear that the news-agency mentioned performs two separate functions, although the
German army authorities do not draw this distinction. First, the circulation of reports issued
by the Army Headquarters in the field, for the truth of which the Berlin General Staff guarantees.
Secondly, the spreading of their own news, and information supplied to them by other German
Government departments. All news published by the agency has thus received the stamp of official
authority, and the German public is too ignorant to recognize the palpable fraud.

"Metz, August 3rd.--A French doctor, accompanied by two officers in disguise, was caught yesterday
while trying to infect the water supply with cholera bacilli. He was at once shot under military
law."[46]

[Footnote 46: Deutsche Tageszeitung, August 3rd.]

"The report of the Metz water supply being infected, which was given out by Wolff's Bureau
yesterday, proves to be a pure invention. The agency informs us that there is no ground for
uneasiness, but the state of affairs at present makes it imperative to exercise great care."[47]

[Footnote 47: Berliner Tageblatt, August 4th.]

"Coblence, August 2nd.--The Government-president in Düsseldorf reports that twelve motor-cars
containing eighty French officers in Prussian uniforms tried this morning to cross the Prussian
frontier by Walbeck, west of Geldern. The attempt failed."[48]

[Footnote 48: Ibid., August 3rd.]

Referring to this episode another paper wrote: "The alleged attempt of whole caravans of French
officers, masquerading as German lieutenants, to enter the Rhine province as spies is too adventurous
to be believed. Especially as it is known that the Dutch frontier is very strictly guarded.

"But Wolff's Bureau, which at present takes every precaution, circulated the news. Hence we
have here an instance of France violating Dutch neutrality."[49]

[Footnote 49: Kölnische Volkszeitung, August 3rd.]

As far as the author is aware, the German Government has not yet protested to the Dutch authorities
for this breach of their neutrality.

The poisoned-water-supplies lie deserves further attention. It was scattered broadcast throughout
the land, and millions of credulous Germans reduced to a state of absolute panic and--what
was intended by those who spread the lie--blind hate against Germany's opponents. I have before
me a number of descriptions of scares in various parts of the Fatherland. A few notices will
suffice as illustrations.

"A most terrifying report spread like wild-fire through the town last Monday morning, and reached
to the farthest suburbs. The waters of the Mangfall had been poisoned by Russian spies, and
everyone's life was in danger. It is hardly possible to conceive the effect of this terrible
rumour. Messengers of despair rushed from house to house, knocking at strangers' doors in order
to spread the warning. 'That is a devilish deed!' stammered the white lips of women. 'Only
barbarians wage war in this manner!' hissed the men, trembling with rage and hate."[50]

[Footnote 50: The full report of this Munich scare occupies more than a column in the München-Augsburger
Abendzeitung, August 10th.]

The Breslauer-Morgenzeitung for August 10th contains an announcement from the Breslau municipality
warning the inhabitants that the waters of the Oder have possibly been poisoned, and appealing
for every precaution to be taken before drinking from the town supply, till a fresh supply
can be provided.

"The authorities in Danzig have declared the waters of the Weichsel to be under suspicion of
having been infected with cholera bacilli. It is presumed that cholera is raging on the upper
Weichsel in Russia, and that the Russians have not allowed this to become known. Water from
the river must not be used for any purposes connected with human food or drink."[51]

[Footnote 51: Leipziger Neuesten Nachrichten, August 20th. A lying report put in circulation
hundreds of miles away from Danzig.]

Finally the originator of these rumours piously contradicts them all and announces, "lieb Vaterland
magst ruhig sein," in the following words:

"Wolff's Bureau reports: There is absolutely no reason for anxiety on account of the alleged
poisoning and infection of rivers, water supplies and springs which have been reported unauthoritatively
from all parts of the country, and published in the Press. These rumours, which have caused
grave anxiety, on closer investigation have all proved to be utterly unfounded."[52]

[Footnote 52: Leipziger Volkszeitung, August 27th.]

The war had lasted for four weeks, and although no rivers had been poisoned, the same could
not be said of the currents of popular opinion.

"While I was walking down a street in Breslau a tram suddenly stopped, loud cries proceeding
from within it. The occupants had discovered a Russian, dragged him out and handed him over
to a policeman who led the man away. But the official was unable to protect him, and blows
with fists and sticks literally rained on the defenceless fellow. The couple, surrounded by
a howling crowd, had just moved away, when a nun attracted the attention of the crowd. On account
of a report that a Russian spy disguised as a nun had been arrested the same morning, the people
imagined the nun to be a man in disguise.

"Smiling at the ridiculous supposition and the maddened howls of the ever-increasing throng,
the lady endeavoured to enter a tram. Men placed themselves in front of the car, others dragged
the frightened woman out again and with blows and kicks she was driven before them to the next
police station. But the saddest part of these excesses--and I am only describing a few of which
I was accidentally a witness--is that members of the so-called educated classes participated
in them."[53]

[Footnote 53: A special correspondent in the Frankfurter Zeitung, August 7th.]

"On one of the most frequented open places in Breslau a soldier approached a lady and looked
searchingly into her face. She understood him, and remarked with a smile: 'I am not a spy!'
The man replied: 'But you have short hair. I am sorry, you must come with me.'

"She at once recognized that the wisest plan was to accompany him, and turned to do so. The
movement worked like a signal; the bystanders immediately threw themselves in blind rage upon
the defenceless woman. In vain the single soldier tried to protect her, and equally in vain
was the assistance of two policemen who had come up. Her cries to be taken into a neighbouring
house for safety met with no response.

"Her garments were literally torn from her body, a spectacle which finally proved to her persecutors
that she actually was a woman, but that fact no longer protects her. Brutal instincts, once
let loose, are mad and unrestrained. Blows continue to fall on her head and kicks rain against
her body. She only tries to shield her eyes. 'Take her to the police station' was shouted,
but that is some distance away. And any second may mean death--a horrible, disgraceful death.

"Having arrived in the guard-room the officials are soon convinced that they have to do with
an absolutely innocent woman. Outside the throngs yelled in triumph."[54]

[Footnote 54: Breslauer Generalanzeiger, August 6th.]

A German officer wrote the following account to the Berliner Zeitung am Mittag (August 5th):
"May I supplement your article 'Spies and Spy-hunting' with a few facts from my own personal
knowledge. On August 3rd no fewer than sixty-four spies (?) were brought into the police station
at the Potsdamer Railway Station (Berlin). Not one was kept in arrest, for the simple fact
that they were all innocent German citizens.

"Among others who were 'captured' and threatened with death by the raging crowd on the Potsdamer
Platz were: A pensioned Prussian major, who was waiting for his son; a surgeon in the Landwehr;
a high official from the Courts of Justice; and lastly, a pensioned Bavarian army officer who,
on account of his stature, was thought to be a Russian. A drunken shop-assistant egged on the
crowd against this last suspect, so that his life was really in danger. He was rescued by four
Prussian officers, who pretended to arrest their Bavarian colleague, and were in this way able
to lead him into safety."

This twentieth-century reign of terror is not, however, without a ray of humour. The semi-official
Kölnische Zeitung (August 4th) contained a legend which set all Germany hunting for French
motor-cars. "Several motor-cars with ladies in them, taking gold to Russia, are on their way
across Germany. They must be stopped and a communication sent to the nearest military or police
station."

"The occupants of the motor-cars carrying gold to Russia are said to have transferred the precious
metal to cyclists dressed as bricklayers."[55]

[Footnote 55: Das Kleine Journal (Berlin), August 5th.]

"The official announcement that French and Russian motor-cars had been seen on our country
roads has aroused the otherwise leaden, heavy imaginations of the country people to the most
incredible delirium. We will limit ourselves to a single instance. One of our cars met a peasant
with a hand-waggon near Nerchau. As soon as he perceived the motor he bolted in mad fright
into a neighbouring corn-field.

"Our man called in a friendly voice: 'My good fellow, what are you running away for?' Then
the hero answered in a trembling voice: 'I thought it was a French motor!'"[56]

[Footnote 56: Leipziger Volkszeitung, August 6th.]

On August 6th every important paper in the German Empire contained the following paragraph
issued by the "Army Direction" in Berlin:

"The hunt for alleged hostile motor-cars must stop. It endangers the motor-car communications
so necessary to our armies."

This warning was repeated in stronger terms on the following day, and the roll of murdered
victims began to leak out. "Unfortunately through this hunt several persons have been wrongfully
shot. In Leipzig a doctor and his chauffeur have been shot, while between Berlin and Koepenick
a company of armed civilians on the look-out for Russian motor-cars tried to stop a car. The
chauffeur was compelled to put the brakes on so suddenly that the motor dashed into a tree,
with the result that the occupants--several persons connected with the army--were hurled on
to the road and received dangerous injuries.

"In Munich a chauffeur was shot dead by a sentinel because he did not stop soon enough. Even
children are not spared in this degrading fear of spies.

"Near Büren (Westphalia) the twelve-year-old daughter of Town Councillor Buddeberg in Bielefeld
was returning with her mother from Marburg in a motor. Somebody must have telephoned that the
car was suspect, for the Landwehr Society placed armed sentinels at various points on the road.
They cried 'Halt!' to the chauffeur; just as the car was stopping, shots were fired, and the
girl sank dead in the arms of her mother.

"Even the nationalist journals have expressed their astonishment that a civilian society is
permitted to hold the public highways with armed guards. At Coblence a teacher and organist
named Ritter was shot by a sentinel."[57]

[Footnote 57: Leifziger Volkszeitung, Supplement I., August 7th. Here we have proof that Germany
allowed armed civilians to murder supposed Frenchmen, a fact to be remembered when weighing
Germany's accusations against Belgian civilians. The German Government has published a White
Book (328 quarto pages) during the summer, 1915, indicting Belgian civilians with all kinds
of atrocities. Waiving the point that if Germany first laid aside international law she had
no right to expect Belgium to respect its dictates, it may be safely assumed that the evidence
cited by the Germans is of little or no value. The oath which German soldiers are compelled
to take precludes the possibility that they would or could give evidence which reflected on
the conduct of the German army either in peace or war, even if the evidence is absolutely true.
"In the interests of military discipline" the truth must be suppressed. The same oath is, however,
proof that the German soldier must be prepared to lay down either his life or his honour in
defence of the army, and in a later chapter irrefutable evidence from German sources will be
adduced to show that the White Book in question contains "sworn lies" emanating from members
of the German army.]

In its issue for August 11th the same newspaper gave the names of four more victims who had
been shot in Westphalia. Among them was a poor woman of weak intellect; she was near a bridge,
and failing to comply with a sentry's challenge, was shot. The bullet passed through her leg
and killed a little girl who was working near her.

Wolff's Bureau in Berlin reports: "In spite of the most urgent appeals which the Army Direction
has issued during the last few days, begging the public not to place hindrances in the way
of motor-cars, blundering mistakes are still being made every hour in all parts of Germany,
accompanied by the most serious consequences.

"The morning papers again contain reports of gold-motors having been captured. There are neither
gold-motors nor foreign motors in Germany. Anyone who interferes with motor traffic is committing
a sin against the army."[58]

[Footnote 58: Leipziger Volkszeitung, August 10th.]

Another warning appeared in all the papers of August 12th in a still more imperative form.
Yet a section of the public seemed to find a source of humour in this tragic hunt. A correspondent
of the Berliner Tageblatt gave an interesting report of his motor-ride (joy-ride?) from Lindau
to Munich.

"We were hardly two kilometres out of Lindau when we were stopped by a barricade of hay-wagons.
On each side peasants stood with threatening mien, armed with pitchforks, revolvers and ancient
carbines at full-cock. 'Hands up!' First visitation; we show our papers, everything in order.
Off again.

"About every two kilometres this scene was repeated: road jammed with huge, long wagons, the
same excitement, the same discussion, but now and then somewhat sharper. In some villages the
duty to defend the Fatherland has turned into madness.

"'Here, get out! Where was this paper stamped? Yes, it is possible to forge!' They refuse to
believe anything; not even a passport from the Chief in Command, nor papers proving me to be
a German and my companion a German officer. When I tell them that I am an author and journalist
from Berlin, they parry with a 'What the devil is that?'

"These brave peasants defend their Fatherland well. Once we had to wait half an hour till a
gendarme came and ended the comedy with a few short words. Then we are allowed to get in again,
and as I turn round a peasant shouts a last greeting: 'Really, I took you for a common hussy
in disguise!'

"They threaten us from the houses. Now and then the trigger of a gun clicks as it is levelled
at us from a window. The roads are lined with peasants armed with all sorts of weapons, iron
spikes, dung-forks, clubs, scythes, and old swords from the time of our great-grandfathers.

"Up to the suburbs of Munich they stand at every village by day and by night to see that nothing
happens to the Fatherland! And even if we were stopped twenty-eight times in this short distance;
even if we did have to put up with hard words and black looks--we suffered all this gladly.
We rejoiced to see with our own eyes how valiantly our peasants defend the frontiers of their
Fatherland."[59]

[Footnote 59: Edmund Edel in the Berliner Tageblatt, August 9th.]

In due time the bloodthirsty Pecksniff who had set the avalanche in motion appeared to express
his holy indignation.

"Wolff's Bureau has circulated the following warning. Berlin, August 14th. This fatal hunt
for motor-cars has claimed yet another victim. Recently an Austrian countess was shot while
working for the Red Cross, and now a cavalry captain and his chauffeur have been killed by
a forest-keeper on the look-out for Russian automobile.

"The General Staff has again and again issued the most urgent demands that this unhappy hunt
for foreign motorists--which has already caused the death of several good Germans--should cease.

"It is unadulterated madness (es ist heller Wahnsinn) to search for enemy motors in our land.
Neither enemy officers, nor cars loaded with gold, are driving around in Germany. Would that
our people would stop this horrible murder of their own countrymen and lend an ear to the warning
voice of our Army Direction. Our Fatherland needs every single man in this serious hour."[60]

[Footnote 60: Leipziger Volkszeitung, August 15th.]

Only one more nail requires to be driven home to prove the blood-guilt of the German authorities
for the murder of their own citizens.

"Innumerable reports are in circulation about the capture of spies and the prevention of plots
against persons and buildings. In spite of the fact that the military authorities have repeatedly
and urgently appealed for the exercise of the greatest discretion in publishing such reports,
the nationalist Press exploits every opportunity to disquiet the masses and excite them to
senseless delirium.

"It is obvious that we shall not join in this game. We exercise our most careful judgment before
publishing anything; in these serious times we must decline to speculate in the thirst for
sensation which has been bred in the public. Rather, on the contrary, we must beg our readers
always to accept all news, WHICH NOW EMANATE ALMOST ENTIRELY FROM OFFICIAL SOURCES,[61] with
the necessary reserve."[62]

[Footnote 61: The emphasis is mine. Author.]

[Footnote 62: Leipziger Volkszeitung, August 7th.]

The author has ventured to lead his readers on a mad-brained chase after non-existent motor-cars
and mythical French gold. He hopes that his readers' patience has not been exhausted, because
the ride may prove an instructive education in German methods and the standards of truth accepted
in a country where only might is right.

The object in view, in submitting these modern fairy-tales to the British public, is to lay
bare the pillars of truth which support the Fatherland. During the first month of the war there
was an outbreak of brutality in Germany; contemporaneously with these horrors some million
members of the same nation flooded Belgium with dread deeds of an indescribable nature. This
is a noteworthy coincidence.

We have seen how Germans treat Germans, which makes it easier to comprehend how Germans treated
Belgians. The present chapter gives a picture of how the German Press is worked, how popular
opinion is created and blood-lust awakened. When dealing with Germany's defence of her Belgian
horrors, we shall find that her entire case rests alone upon the utterances of her oracles
of truth: Wolff's Telegraphic Bureau and Germany's venal, lying newspapers.

That was the reason for this mad joy-ride from end to end of the German Empire, and that is
the only apology which the author has to make for introducing the latest contributions to Germanic
mythology into an otherwise serious work.

Incidentally we have observed that German civilians were permitted to bear arms and did not
hesitate to use them "in defence of the Fatherland," as Edmund Edel put it. The civilians were
doubtless inspired by the noble desire to grab French gold. Yet when Belgian civilians--as
Wolff's Bureau alleges--dared to defend their homes, wives and children against the most treacherous
and dastardly invasion in the world's history--then, of course, Germany was perfectly justified
in murdering all and sundry, burning towns and hamlets and laying waste a fertile land.

CHAPTER VI

THE DÉBÂCLE OF THE SOCIAL DEMOCRATS

In the second paragraph of the Social Democratic programme published after the Halle Congress
in 1890, we read: "The German workmen's socialistic party, although working for the present
on national lines, is aware of the international character of the workmen's movement, and is
determined to fulfil all duties accruing thereby to the working classes, in order to make the
brotherhood of all men a reality."

At that meeting--the first to be held after the repeal of Bismarck's anti-socialist law--the
president claimed that they had secured more votes at the Reichstag election than any other
party; they were the strongest political party in Germany.

Since that year they have consistently increased their power, till in the present Reichstag
they have no fewer than one hundred and eleven members, giving them almost an absolute majority.

It seems an irony of fate that at Halle in 1890 one of the speakers who dilated on international
brotherhood and the inseparable bonds which bound Belgian and German workmen--was a Belgian
delegate! Singer, in reporting on the doings of the representatives in the Reichstag, said:
"We consider peace among the nations to be an indispensable preliminary for the improvement
of social conditions. We vote against expenditure for military purposes, because we are convinced
that this continuous arming, accompanied by the constant improvement of murderous weapons,
must be ended. It is contradictory to the civilizing task of the nations for them to be armed
to the teeth, lying in wait for the moment when they can devour each other.

"Militarism is an evil for the nations; its burdens cannot be borne for ever, and even to-day
the nations are collapsing under them. Modern conditions are unbearable; out of them spring
ever-increasing armaments, and at last a time will come when war must break out, because the
state of modern armed peace will one day have become impossible."

Another authoritative pronouncement from the report[63] of the Social Democratic Congress in
Erfurt, 1891, deserves mention. It is a passage from a speech delivered by the elder Liebknecht
in the Reichstag: "As regards the defence of the Fatherland all parties will be united when
it is necessary to meet an outside enemy. In that moment no party will shirk its duty."

[Footnote 63: "Protokoll über die Verhandlungen des Parteitags der Soz. Dem. Partei Deutschlands
zu Erfurt, 1891."]

This is an instance of what Germans call Rückversicherung, or a covering insurance. Having
pledged themselves never to leave the Fatherland in the lurch--and the pledge was repeated
on many occasions--they were free to babble to French, English and Italian Socialists about
the blessings of internationalism, general strikes, and eternal peace. But there is no single
instance on record to show that German Socialists considered any other benefits of internationalism,
except those which served the purposes of their own nationalism.

At Halle, 1890, Liebknecht said: "These ideas are indisputably correct. Nobody,[64] no matter
how enthusiastic he may be for the international cause, will dare to maintain that we have
no national duties. National and international are not opposing principles. The word 'national'
must be rightly understood. It includes only a certain, limited portion of international humanity.
The part belongs to the whole, and international merely means going beyond the boundary-posts
of the nation, the narrower limits of the native land; to extend one's horizon to include the
whole; to consider humanity as one family and the world as a home."

[Footnote 64: Liebknecht was wrong. There are dupes who hold that their international obligations
come before their national duties, and unfortunately in the ranks of these traitors, English
M.P.'s may be found, who receive £400 per annum from the British State, presumably to aid them
in injuring the British cause.]

The error into which British Socialists have fallen--or been led--is their attitude towards
militarism. German Democrats have never denounced the bearing of arms; they have admitted that
arms will always be necessary, pre-supposing that the world continues along the same lines
of development as heretofore.

They have only objected to the existing form[65] of militarism, but otherwise they have always
been unanimous that military training should be compulsory and universal. Their British Genossen
(comrades) have either misunderstood or wilfully perverted these teachings. German Socialists
have unswervingly insisted upon every man learning the use of arms, while their British followers
have preached absolute disarmament and done their utmost to betray this country into weakening
herself below the minimum necessary to guard the land, and to maintain the country's pledges
to the world.

[Footnote 65: Kautsky: "Die Internationalität und der Krieg" (Vorwärts Publishing House, Berlin,
1915), p. 26. "We have fought against the military system not to make the land defenceless,
but in order to introduce another system in its place, which will give us the necessary guarantees
that the army will always be the tool of the civil authorities and never their master. When
the latter is the case we call such a condition 'militarism,' and it is against that alone
that we fight." Seeing that military power is absolutely subordinated to the civil authorities
in the case of Great Britain (Mutiny Acts), then according to the principles of German Socialists
their British colleagues were wrong in all the efforts which they have made against the armed
powers of these islands.]

In Halle, Herr Bebel made this statement: "I have already made it clear that I consider the
efforts of the so-called peace friends towards disarmament to be useless (aussichtslos), because
it is unthinkable that the rival States would agree to legal restrictions concerning disarmament.
If such were made, each would endeavour by secret preparations to out-do the other. War and
national enmity are necessary products of society, and the existing class distinctions."

The Germans were quite logical in this matter; in effect they said--the existing States and
forms of government make militarism necessary, and war inevitable. Therefore we declare war
to the knife on every existing government, including Russian Czarism, British constitutionalism,
German autocracy and American republicanism. They are one and all rotten, unjust and inhuman.
Our programme includes their complete overthrow and the erection in their stead of a Volksstaat
(People's State).

The position is perfectly simple, and to those who are sufficiently ignorant and naïve this
programme promises an universal salvation, as delirious in its joy as that expected by African
races when bending the knee before images of wood and stone. German Socialists are pledged
just as irrevocably to the doctrines of brute force as are the Junker and military powers in
the German Fatherland. What is their industrial and class warfare but an attempt to enforce
the doctrine of might is right?

In the official programme drawn up at Erfurt, 1891, there is a paragraph stating a claim for
uneingeschränktes Koalitionsrecht (absolute and unlimited right of coalition), which means
that the masses may unite to enforce what they will, and annihilate whom they please. The same
rights of coalition are denied to anyone else, and in the coal-strikes in South Wales[66] we
have a lurid example--such instances could not be found in Germany--of the absolute and unlimited
right of coalition at the risk of undoing any and every other right.

[Footnote 66: The strikes during the present war.--Author.]

The point is this: German Socialists have declared their intention to give no allegiance to
any existing form of government and to overthrow them at the earliest possible moment. Do British
Socialists accept this part of the programme?

Throughout German Social Democratic literature we find Mr. Ramsay Macdonald referred to as
Genosse Ramsay Macdonald, which means that he is considered a full member of the brotherhood.
If that is really the case, and if he accepts their programme as one to be followed here he
would be favouring the substitution of the volksstaat for the British constitutional monarchy.

In face of this it may be asked why do British members of the Socialist party take an oath
on entering the House of Commons, and why do they accept £400 per annum to support a national
State, if they have pledged themselves internationally to overthrow it?

The author admits his inability to solve the riddle, but during the years 1902-1914 he has
heard members of all non-Socialist German parties assert that the German Socialists do not
recognize any religious oath, and sections of the Socialists admit this position. As a party
they are professedly atheistic; therefore when the might of the German State compels them to
take an oath--they take it with an inward Rückversicherung.

In a word, false-swearing is permitted, when one is obliged by circumstances, to take an oath
to authorities whose right and might the oath-taker does not admit. So long ago as 1892 the
Social Democrats were publicly charged with condoning perjury in order to rescue fellow members
from the results of breaches of the law. Judge Schmidt in a court at Breslau said in that year:
"Social Democrats have never concealed the fact that they are hostile to any religious form
of oath. For them the religious importance and responsibility of an oath has no meaning whatever."
Numerous German judges and authors have expressed themselves in a similar strain.

Readers who are interested in the point are referred to the report[67] of the Socialist Congress
held in Berlin, October, 1892. The party leaders endeavoured to gloss the matter over with
righteous indignation and ambiguous phrases, but it nevertheless remains a fact that the desire
to counteract effectively, a tendency to perjury among Socialists led the German Government
a few years later to make perjury punishable by penal servitude up to ten years.

[Footnote 67: All these reports may be seen in the British Museum Reading Room. Press mark
is: 08072d.]

Before leaving the Volksstaat the author only wishes to state that it lays the axe on every
conception of morality, religion and social order which we esteem. In the place of existing
conditions, it would erect a mob tyranny more degrading to the individual than Czarism or Republicanism.
The mines of Siberia and the tinned-meat factories of Chicago may enslave the body, but the
Volksstaat, as portrayed by Socialist writers and speakers, promises an intellectual tyranny--hopeless
alike to body and soul; and those who have had an opportunity to observe the brutal tyranny
called "party discipline" which rules the German Social Democrats, will bear the present writer
out in saying that its like, could only be found inside the German army.

The strongest, best organized and most thoroughly disciplined political party in the world
has repeatedly expressed its unalterable determination to place national before international
interests, whenever these two should seem to be at variance. In the light of these declarations,
the action of German Socialists in giving unreserved support to the German Government in this
war, is not altogether surprising.

Furthermore, this foundation-stone in their policy ought never to have been left out of consideration
when pondering over their ecstatic utterances on peace and internationalism.

The communistic manifesto of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, first published in London in the
German language in 1847, contains the following: "Men say that we Communists wish to destroy
the nationality of the native land. Workmen have no Fatherland. It is impossible to take away
what they do not possess. The Communists scorn to conceal their views and intentions. We declare
openly, that their aims can only be attained by the violent overthrow of all existing social
orders. Let the ruling classes tremble before a communistic revolution. The proletarians have
nothing but their chains to lose, while they have a world to gain."[68]

[Footnote 68: "Envy and greed are the two powerful levers by which the Social Democrats are
endeavouring to lift the world off its hinges. They live by the destruction of every ideal."
Treitschke in the "Preussische Jahrbücher," vol. 34.]

German Socialists have incorporated these principles in theory in their programme, but in practice
they do not hold them, especially if their own skins are endangered, together with the Government
which is threatened by "violent overthrow." That is the sum total of their extensive defence--literature
published since the outbreak of the present war. In its naked reality that is what the guarantee-insurance
policy covered. So long as no danger threatened their own lives, goods and chattels, such eloquence
as the following extracts were shouted into the world; but when they personally stood face
to face with the Moloch upon which for years they had heaped contemptuous abuse, then national
(i.e., personal) interests came first.

Herr Fischer, in his capacity as president of the Socialist Congress in Berlin, 1892, said:

"The reception of French delegates at Halle, and of Liebknecht at Marseilles, have proved incontrovertibly
that the struggling French proletarians are of one mind and heart with German Social Democracy.
Let the chauvinists, burning with hate on this and that side the Rhine, urge us on to war;
let the diplomats and Governments of both countries sacrifice the well-being of the two nations
to militarism and the war-bogey. The working-men in the two countries stretch out their hands
to each other over the frontiers as pioneers of true culture and morality. They are convinced
that there is only one enemy which separates them, and that it is their common task to fight
against and annihilate this one enemy--capitalism."

"Now as ever, we Social Democrats reply to the Government's military and economic policy this
parole: Not a man and not a farthing will be voted for this system!"[69]

[Footnote 69: Social Democrat members of the Reichstag in their report to the annual congress
held in Cologne, 1893.]

These quotations have been intentionally taken from speeches, etc., published in the early
nineties of the last century. If necessary, it would be an easy matter to fill several volumes
of similar matter from the annual congress reports down to 1913; from the vast mass of German
Social Democratic literature published between 1890 and 1914; and from the hundred party newspapers
and reviews circulated in the Fatherland, Yet in the face of all these assurances it seemed
to us that the German Socialists had shamefully betrayed their principles on August 4th, 1914,
by giving their unreserved support to "Germany's Holy War."[70]

[Footnote 70: In all Germany, and among all classes, this has become the popular designation
of the European war: "Unser heiliger Krieg."]

Probably the betrayal was not so shameful as it seemed, because the fact was not made known
in this country that the German Socialists had but imitated Bismarck's policy with Russia and
Austria. (Bismarck concluded a treaty, with the one Power, then behind that Power's back he
concluded a Rückversicherungsvertrag with the other, i.e., a covering insurance policy intended
to protect him against all risks.)

During a quarter of a century, German Social Democrats have been the most ardent and insistent
pioneers of internationalism and anti-militarism. But it has not been so generally known that
they too have protected their rear by a Rückversicherung: (1.) They have consistently taught
that every man must learn to bear arms, and that both man and woman must be prepared to make
any sacrifice for their Fatherland. (2.) They have always held that national interests must
be considered before international palaver.

In Chapter I. we have seen that up till July 28th, 1914, the German Social Democratic Party
considered Austria and Germany to be entirely responsible for the European crisis. They had
then no shadow of doubt, that Austria alone was guilty for bringing the danger of a European
war to their very doors; from that point we again take up the story.[71]

[Footnote 71: In all the mass of literature published by German Socialists during the war I
have found only one mention of their first attitude to the war danger. On the first anniversary
of the ultimatum to Serbia (July 23rd, 1915) the Leipziger Volkszeitung contains these lines
in a leading article: "To-day we may not repeat that which we wrote about the ultimatum in
our issue of July 24th, 1914. But there was no doubt in any section of the Press, that Europe
stood on the brink of war from the moment that ultimatum was despatched."]

Three days later they tacitly agreed that Russia was the guilty party and acquiesced in the
mobilization of the German army. On August 1st this proclamation occupied the front page of
their seventy-seven daily papers:

  "PARTEIGENOSSEN! Military law has been proclaimed. Any hour may bring
  with it the outbreak of the world war. Thereby the severest trials
  will be imposed upon, not only our nation, but upon the whole of our
  continent.

  "Up till the last minute the internationalists have done their duty,
  and on the other side of our frontiers every nerve is being strained
  to preserve peace and to make war impossible.

  "If our earnest protests, our repeated endeavours have been without
  success, it is because the conditions under which we live have once
  again proved stronger than our will, and the will of our workmen
  brothers. Hence, whatever comes, we must now face it with firmness.

  "The horrible self-laceration of the European peoples, is the cruel
  confirmation of our warnings to the ruling classes for more than a
  generation; we have spoken admonishingly and in vain.

  "Parteigenossen (comrades), we shall not live through coming events
  in fatalistic indifference; we shall remain true to our cause; we
  shall hold firmly together, permeated by the sublime greatness of our
  cultural mission.

  "The women, on whom the burden of events presses two and threefold,
  have above all, in these serious times, the task of working in the
  spirit of Socialism for the high ideals of humanity, so that a
  repetition of this dreadful catastrophe may be averted, and this war
  may be the last.

  "The stern regulations of martial law strike the workmen's movement
  with terrible force. Imprudent actions, useless and falsely-conceived
  sacrifices, damage in this moment not only the individual, but also
  our cause.

  "Comrades, we appeal to you to persevere in the unshakable confidence
  that the future belongs, in spite of all, to nation-binding Socialism,
  to justice and humanity.

      "DER PARTEIVORSTAND.
      (The leaders of the party.)

  "Berlin, July 3ist, 1914."

With these words, millions of German Socialists, represented by four and a quarter million
voters and a hundred and eleven members of the Reichstag, tacitly denied their previous protestations,
that Austrian Imperialism was letting loose the war-fury on Europe. There are rumours of a
secret consultation with the German Chancellor, but that is of little import in this place.
The leaders of this huge party proclaimed on July 25th that Austria was the blood-guilty power
and maintained this attitude in spite of bloodshed till 11 p.m. on July 28th. By what lightning-change
Austria's original guilt was transferred to Russia by July 31st is not recorded.

With regard to the text of the above proclamation, there are variations to be noted. In the
Vorwärts it runs "within and without our frontiers" in the second paragraph; the text as I
have given it is taken from the Leipziger Volkszeitung. In the fifth paragraph the Nuremberg
Fränkische Tagespost gives "capitalistic" for "fatalistic."

A few extracts from Socialist newspapers will suffice to illustrate the complete change of
front which happened in three days:

"We Social Democrats in this solemn hour are at one with the whole German nation, without distinction
of party or creed, in accepting the fight forced upon us by Russian barbarism, and we are ready
to fight till the last drop of blood for Germany's national independence, fame and greatness."
Der Folksfreund (Karlsruhe), August 1st.

"We desired peace and we have done everything humanly possible to secure that end. But when
war is forced upon us by Russian Czarism, then, whatever the final decision may be, we must
drop all class distinctions and differences of every kind, to form a single, determined people,
prepared to defend Germany's independence and greatness against the enemy--even to the last
drop of blood." Volksstimme (Mannheim), July 31st.

"A defeat would mean collapse, annihilation and horrors most dreadful for all of us.[72] Our
imaginations revolt at such a possibility. Our representatives in the Reichstag have unanimously
declared on innumerable occasions that the Social Democrats could not leave their Fatherland
in the lurch when the hour of destiny strikes; the workmen will now redeem the promise given
by their representatives. The 'Fatherlandless fellows'[73] will do their duty, and in doing
it, will allow themselves to be surpassed in no wise by the patriots," Münchener Post, August 1st.

[Footnote 72: These sentiments did not occur to this journalist when Germany began a ruthless
war of invasion on Belgium.--Author.]

[Footnote 73: A phrase of contempt employed by the Kaiser when speaking of the Social Democrats
in 1889, and which became proverbial.]

"Whatever our opponents have done to us, at this moment we all feel the duty to fight against
Russian knout-rule. Our women and children shall not be sacrificed to Russian bestiality, nor
the German people become a booty for the Cossacks." Die Volksstimme (Chemnitz), August 2nd.

It is possible that even at the end of the war no explanation will be forthcoming for this
astounding change of attitude. Some have suggested that the Russian or Slavonic danger caused
it. Yet just these journals, and this party, had maintained, so long as any degree of free
speech was permitted, that Austria had provoked the danger, and they were fully aware that
the German Government had from first to last approved of and openly assisted in provoking,
nay challenging, Russia on a question which involved the latter's prestige and diplomatic existence.

Bethmann-Hollweg gave the alleged Russian mobilization as the immediate cause of the war, but
doubtless the Social Democrats knew full well that for several days before Russia's mobilization
was announced, Germany had been secretly mobilizing her army. From July 26th till July 30th
German papers contained many reports that Russia was mobilizing; they may have been true or
not, but the diplomatic correspondence published by Austria and discussed on page 63 shows
conclusively that the Central Powers were baiting Russia into taking that step, and when the
greatest Slavonic power had made the desired move, Germany replied with an ultimatum which
brought about the war, so ardently desired by the great majority of Germany's warlike tribes.

Britishers who sympathize with German Social Democracy may advance the plea: If Germany's military
preparations were secret, how could the Social Democrats know of these proceedings? The answer
is direct and simple: Every individual Social Democrat--and men, women, and children, they
number some twenty millions--has for years past been a spy and informer in the interests of
the Umsturzpartei (overthrow-party). All the happenings of the workshop, barracks, farmyard,
shop and office have been systematically reported to the local Press, and local committees
of the Democratic Party; the ammunitions thus obtained have been just as systematically employed
to fire insidious paragraphs and Press articles at governments, local authorities, employers,
officers, and even the employers of servant-girls. Of late years it has been dangerous to have
a difference even with a maid-servant; a few days later the inevitable insidious, anonymous
attack would certainly appear in one or other of the S.D. journals.

One instance will suffice to illustrate the everyday routine of the class-war (Klassenkampf)
in which the whole energies of the Social Democrats have been absorbed for a quarter of a century.
An acquaintance of the author's, Major Schub, in the 19th Infantry Regiment, stationed in Erlangen,
dared some years ago to send his orderly with a she-goat to a peasant in the district who kept
the indispensable he-goat. Two days later he was pilloried in a Furth paper for calling upon
a private soldier to fulfil such a degrading office. German workmen do not read the Vorwärts
(its circulation is well under 100,000), but they read one or other of the seventy purveyors
of filth and class hatred which form the stock-in-trade of the Social Democratic Party.

The author of this work, knew as early as July 25th, that reserve officers had been warned
to hold themselves in readiness; on succeeding days he saw tangible evidence that mobilization
was proceeding stealthily, and it would be ridiculous for him to claim greater knowledge than
the hundred and eleven S.D. members of the Reichstag, and the seventy-seven editors of their
party papers--especially when these have an army of millions of spies at their command.

In order to obtain a correct judgment of the motives which actuated German Social Democrats
in their complete support of the German Government it is necessary to consult the works published
by them during the war. Karl Kautsky writes:[74] "That which under these circumstances, was
most immediate and pressing in determining the attitude to war, not only for the masses, but
also many of our leaders, was the fear of a hostile invasion, the urgent necessity to keep
the enemy out of our territory, no matter what the causes, object or results of the war may
be. This fear was never greater and more justified than on this occasion; never have the devastating
results of invasion been more terrible. Belgium and East Prussia speak plainly.

[Footnote 74: "Die Internationalität und der Krieg." Berlin, 1915; p. 32.]

"The increased size of the armies greatly extends the unavoidable desolation of war, and in
addition to this a second strongly-working popular motive decides the attitude of a nation
to war, viz., the interest of the entire people in the fate of an army in which every family
is represented."

It thus becomes evident that no motives of justice, right or wrong, or politics played any
part in the decision arrived at, but merely a great fear which impelled the Social Democrats
to consider first and foremost how to save their own skins.

All protest meetings were cancelled on August 1st, and the Press restricted itself to chronicling
rumours and events. The sitting of the Reichstag was awaited with impatience as that was expected
to bring more light on the crisis. The effect which Bethmann-Hollweg produced upon his hearers
was to convince them that Russia alone was to blame. "The question of supporting the war by
voting a loan was all the easier for us to decide, because the provocation had come, not from
France or England, but from Russia. I admit openly that while I was travelling to Berlin to
the Reichstag I had very little time to hunt for precedents in the party's history to determine
my vote. For me the force of circumstances alone was decisive; the material interests of the
working classes and the entire nation; common sense and the realization of a practical policy."[75]

[Footnote 75: "Die Kriegssitzung des deutschen Reichstags" ("The War Sitting of the Reichstag"),
by Karl Hildenbrand, Member for Stuttgart. Published 1915; p. 13.]

"At the time of voting on August 4th, we were not in a position to take England into consideration,
because at the moment she had not yet declared war. But by England's intervention our attitude
on August 4th has been still more emphatically justified."[76]

[Footnote 76: Ibid., p. 16.]

This statement is a gross distortion of the truth. It is true that England had not yet declared
war, but Sir Edward Grey had made England's attitude quite clear on the previous day. His speech
had been published in the Berlin papers. Furthermore, the Chancellor informed the Reichstag
that England's position was perfectly clear, although he suppressed the fact that Germany had
begun preparations for war with this country five days before, by ordering civilians to leave
Heligoland, and despatching the Königin Luise to lay mines on our coasts.

In any case, the action of the Social Democrats on that occasion is an example of unfaithfulness
to principles. Accepting the invasion fear as a ground for voting a loan for a war of defence,
there is still no evident reason why they should vote funds for a war of aggression against
Belgium. On the surface, there is no explanation for their cheers when Bethmann-Hollweg announced
the invasion of two neutral States by Germany's armies.

Had they been tricked into supporting an alleged defensive war, there was still time to protest
against German hordes overrunning two weak neighbouring countries. In spite of their terror
that they personally might suffer through the horrors of war, their vaunted humanitarianism
led to no outcry against those same horrors being wilfully and ruthlessly forced upon their
Belgian Genossen.

The only anxiety which the speech of their chosen spokesman, Herr Haase, betrays, is the anxiety
to avoid responsibility. "In the name of my party I am empowered to make the following declaration:
We are standing in an hour of solemn destiny. The consequences of the imperialistic policy--which
brought about an era of armaments and made international difficulties more acute--have now
fallen upon Europe like a storm-flood.

"The responsibility for this recoils upon the leaders of that policy; we decline to accept
it. Social Democracy has fought against this ominous development with all the forces at its
command. Up to the very last hour we have worked for the maintenance of peace through mighty
demonstrations in every land, especially in intimate cooperation with our French brothers.
(Applause from the Social Democrats.) Our efforts have been in vain.

"Now we are face to face with the stern reality of war. We are threatened by the terrors of
a hostile invasion. To-day we have not to decide either for or against war, but only concerning
the necessary means for the defence of our country. Now we have to think of the millions of
our Genossen who are innocently swept into this fate. They will suffer most through the devastations
of war. Our ardent wishes accompany also our brothers who are called to the flag without distinction
of party. (Loud applause.)

"We think, too, of the mothers who must give their sons and of the women and children who are
robbed of their bread-winners, and to whose fear for their loved ones is added the dread of
hunger. Tens of thousands of wounded and mutilated warriors will soon be added to these. We
consider it our most compelling duty to help them, to lighten their burdens and relieve their
distress.[77] (Loud applause.)

[Footnote 77: There is every reason to believe that the party has worked hard to keep this
promise.--Author.]

"In case of a victory for Russian despotism, which is already stained with the blood of Russia's
best sons, much--if not everything--is at stake for our people and our free future. It is a
question of averting this danger, and of securing the culture and independence of our own country.
(Loud applause.)

"Now we will redeem our oft repeated pledge: In the hour of danger we shall not leave our Fatherland
in the lurch. (Loud applause.) Thereby, we feel ourselves in unison with the principles of
internationalism which have always admitted the right of each single people to national independence
and national defence. We condemn, as internationalism does, every war of conquest.

"We demand, that, as soon as the goal of security has been attained and our enemies are inclined
to make peace, the war shall end by a peace that will make friendship with neighbouring countries
possible. We demand this, not only in the interests of the international solidarity for which
we have uniformly fought, but also in the interests of the German nation.

"We hope that the cruel school of war's sufferings will awaken a horror for war in new millions,
and win them over to the socialistic ideal and international peace. Guided by these principles
we vote in favour of the war loan. (Loud applause.)"[78]

[Footnote 78: Leipziger Volkszeitung, August 5th.]

A short historical comparison will assist in making the Social Democratic action still clearer.
In 1870, when Bismarck asked the Reichstag for a war credit to prosecute the campaign against
France, the Socialists were few and helpless. Yet Liebknecht and Bebel refused to vote in its
favour. "Their moral demonstration was in itself perfectly logical, for Bismarck's and Napoleon
III.'s intrigues equally deserved condemnation."[79]

[Footnote 79: Kautsky: "Die Internationalitat und der Krieg," p. 19.]

Apparently it did not occur to the Democrats in 1914, that probably Germany had again been
guilty of intrigues. It is noteworthy, however, that the small party in 1870 protested when
a national issue was at stake, while the mighty party of 1914 made no protest whatever, although,
as they had previously announced and denounced, the issue had been raised by the unjust actions
and vile intrigues of Austrian imperialism.

The campaign against Russia conducted by the nationalist Press up till August 1st was taken
up by the organs representing Social Democracy, immediately war broke out. Their papers were
flooded with appalling pictures of Russian (generally termed Asiatic) barbarism, tyranny and
misrule. Passages from the speeches and writings of Bebel, Liebknecht and others were quoted
to show the fiendishness of Russian policy, and the justice of every German doing his utmost
to smash Czarism and deliver millions of fellow workmen from its thrall. Even a blood-and-thunder
story of the Russian police was turned on as a serial story in their daily papers.[80] In short,
nothing was omitted which goes to make Stimmung.

[Footnote 80: "Der Polizeimeister, ein russischer Polizeiroman," by Gabryela Zapolska. The
story commenced in the Nuremberg party organ on August 11th, and in Kautsky's Leipztger Volkszeitung
on August 18th.]

Had they been honestly impartial a still blacker picture of Austria, painted by one of the
founders of the workmen's movement, might have been quoted, yet it might have been indiscreet
to tell Germans what Lassalle wrote. "Austria? Russia is a mammoth, barbarian Empire which
its despotic rulers endeavour to civilize, just so far as suits their despotic interests. In
that country barbarism is excusable, because it is a national element. But the case is very
different with Austria. There it is the government which represents the barbaric principle
and crushes beneath it by artifice and violence, the civilized peoples under its rule."[81]

[Footnote 81: Bernstein's edition of Lassalle's "Reden und Schriften," vol. I., p. 306.]

With the exception of a few Britishers, the Socialists of all countries have unanimously condemned
the attitude of the German party. Not the least interesting is the condemnation expressed by
the Italian section. Dr. Südekum, Reichstag member for Nuremberg, was sent to Italy to discuss
the situation with Italian Socialists and justify their own action in supporting the war. The
following account of the meeting appeared in the Vorwärts for September 12th: "The meeting
lasted from 3.30 p.m. till 7 p.m. Südekum declared that he had come to inform their Italian
comrades of the situation in which the German Socialists found themselves, and in order to
learn whether the Italians had taken any steps to keep up communications with Democrats in
other lands.

"We hold firmly to the contention that the German Socialists could have done nothing except
what they did. My presence here is a proof that we Germans are aware of our duties towards
internationalism.[82] We believed that the German Government had given proof of its peaceful
tendencies and was forced into war against its will. Therefore, the Social Democratic Party
supported it.

[Footnote 82: There is no evidence to show that Südekum's Italian visit had any other purpose
than winning over the sympathies of Italian Socialists and with them, the whole Italian nation
for the purposes of German nationalism.--Author.]

"Delia Seta answered that this was no justification for giving their support. The Italian Socialists
would not have given their assistance under the same circumstances, just as they had refused
to vote in favour of the Libyan war.

"Dr. Südekum replied that the German Socialists were compelled to defend their Fatherland against
Czarism. Further, he repeated Haase's declaration in the Reichstag and continued: 'I am astonished
that the Italian Socialists are able to believe, that so strong a party as the German Democrats,
had denied their ideals, and been untrue to their task. You must admit that no other way was
open to us, except to grant the credit demanded.'

"After this, he asserted the nationalist Press of France and Italy was working against Germany,
and it seemed as if the Italian comrades were in agreement with Italian nationalists in endeavouring
to maintain the existing condition of affairs[83] in Italy.

[Footnote 83: "The existing condition of affairs" seems to mean Italian neutrality.--Author.]

"Finally Südekum concluded by pointing out that the German Democrats had neither the intention,
nor the right, to influence the attitude of the Italian Socialists, but were merely endeavouring
to link up hearty international intercourse again.

"In reply Delia Seta said he found it remarkable that the German Socialists had appealed to
their Italian comrades in this solemn hour, all the more remarkable because intentions might
easily be ascribed to this intervention. 'This is a serious motive which impels us to state
our opinions with unreserved frankness.'

"He continued: 'Your defence does not convince us. You speak of France being allied with us,
and of England, Germany's enemy. But we speak of our France, revolutionary France, Jauré's
France. The French Socialists opposed the military preparations made by France, you Germans
did not do the same in your country, or at least, only up to the point where the imperialistic
feelings of the Kaiser and his party might be hurt.

"'The point of view of German Democrats coincides with that of German imperialism. German predominance
means for us a far greater danger than Czarism, because Czarism prevents the German army from
marching on Paris, and thus protects the banner of France, which in spite of all mistakes and
errors, is still the most revolutionary.

"'Germany's motto is: Deutschland über alles and you have not opposed it; but you have published
in the Vorwärts an appreciation of the Kaiser alleging that he had worked during twenty-five
years for peace.

"'You speak of German civilization being in danger. But in this civilization we can find no
trace of culture, when you attack and torture neutral Belgium, and complete the destruction
of Louvain. Taken as a whole, German Socialists are just as plausible and use the same excuses
as the Ministers of the German Government.[84]

[Footnote 84: Might not this also be said of Messrs. Morel, Macdonald, Bernard Shaw, etc.,
and the Labour Leader, whose writings on the war have been scattered broadcast throughout Germany
during the last six months?]

"'We are enraged at the terrible fact that Germany has violated Belgium's neutrality, and you
have not even protested. We tell you quite openly that we honour and weep for devastated Belgium,
and tremblingly follow the fate of France.'"

Südekum had no words with which to answer this terrible indictment, and the Vorwärts could
only add the following comment:

"We consider the judgment of our Italian comrades to be one-sided, but for reasons easy to
understand, desist from discussing it in the present situation. Unfortunately we must recognize
the fact, however, that the Italian view is widespread among the Socialists of other neutral
countries."

Germany's revolutionary party lost no time in hoisting the banner of "no annexations." The
Leipziger Folkszeitung, second in importance only to the Vorwärts nailed down a phrase in the
Kaiser's speech from the throne, which stated: "We are inspired by no desire for conquest."
In commenting on this phrase, Kautsky's organ said:

"The part of the speech which excites most sympathy in us is the admission that Germany cherishes
no lust for conquest. At the proper time we shall refer to that again.

"It is with sincere regret that we see the French Government on the side of the criminal Powers,
which have enslaved and robbed the Russian people. If Germany, in a delirium of victory, should
raise claims which mean annexation, then we shall--that must be repeated again--recall the
speech from the throne of the German Kaiser on August 4th, 1914."[85]

[Footnote 85: Leipziger Volkszeitung, August 4th.]

During the first year of war a split among the Social Democrats has become evident, and it
appears certain that it is the annexation question which is causing the cleavage. In December
last Liebknecht abstained from voting when the second war loan was granted by the Reichstag.
Evidently doubts have arisen in a small section of the party either as to the origin of the
war, or in regard to the objects which the German Government hopes to attain.

On August 20th, 1915, Dr. Liebknecht put this question in the Reichstag: "Is the Government
prepared to enter into immediate peace negotiations on the basis that Germany renounces all
annexation claims and assuming that the other Powers in question are willing to negotiate?"
Von Jagow replied: "I believe the great majority of the members will agree with me, when I
refuse to answer the question, as being at present beside the purpose."

The reply evoked a hurricane of "bravos."

A parallel may be found in the year 1870. The central committee of German Social Democrats
passed a resolution that: "It is absolutely necessary for the party to organize simultaneously
in all parts of the country great popular demonstrations against the annexation of Alsace-Lorraine,
and pass resolutions in favour of an honourable peace with the French republic."

Nothing came of the movement, for on September 9th the committee was placed under arrest and
prosecuted. If Germany should be victorious in this war, it is to be assumed that the Socialists
would again prove powerless to prevent annexation. What the allies cannot hinder, the Social
Democrats would be still more helpless to prevent; especially as the great majority of them
are unreservedly on the side of the Kaiser and his Government. When in need, the latter flattered
and persuaded the Democrats to vote for an alleged war of defence; but should German arms be
victorious the German Government would neither seek, nor accept advice on her national projects,
from her quondam internationalists.

There are grounds for suspicion that the party is playing a game desired by the Berlin Government.
For some months past they have tried every means possible to arrange personal interviews with
the leaders of the corresponding party in France--the French "comrades" have refused to meet
them. The Leipziger Volkszeitung for July 16th, 1915, contains more than a column about "We
and the French," in which the German party spreads the usual Teutonic lime of sophistry and
empty phrases.

One passage betrays the entire intrigue. They wish their "French brothers" to agree to a peace
without annexations, which means, in so many words, that the French Socialists are to renounce
Alsace-Lorraine for ever. Had they been, or should they be in the future, so foolish as to
enter this German mouse-trap, then before the war has reached a decisive conclusion, a large
section of the French nation would be pledged to renounce the lost provinces even in case of
a German defeat. This is an excellent instance of the manner in which German Social Democracy
works in an enemy country to assist its own Government. In like manner, the Independent Labour
Party and Union of Democratic Control are forces exceedingly sensitive to German influence,
and in a decisive moment can be set in motion by the German "comrades."

The hundred and eleven Social Democrats in the Reichstag have no real power in Germany. If
they possess any degree of power, then fear for their own skins, prevents them from risking
its exercise. Their real opinion concerning Alsace-Lorraine appeared in the same journal four
days later. "According to our opinion it would be a crime, if France made the return of these
provinces a condition of peace." In the same article an accusation of one-sidedness is made
against the Socialists in France for supporting the French Government. After which, it is not
surprising that every time the names of the Genossen Macdonald, Snowden, Hardie and Newbold
occur in the Leipziger Volkszeitung, they are mentioned with awe and reverence.

"Besides Ramsay Macdonald and Philip Snowden, our friend J.T. Walton Newbold has got on the
nerves of the English patriots."[86] These gentlemen invariably receive polite mention, but
French Socialists are evidently in disfavour--presumably because they know too well the German
game.

[Footnote 86: Leipziger Volkszeitung, July 23rd, 1915.]

The peace programme of the German Socialists has been published. An official declaration of
the party which appeared on August 23rd, 1915, gives the following conditions.

"While caring for the national interests and rights of our own people, and at the same time
respecting the vital interests of all nations, German Social Democracy strives for a peace
which bears the guarantee of permanence, and will bring the European States closer together
in matters of justice, culture, and commerce. In this sense we have drawn up the following scheme:

"I. The security of German independence and the entirety of the German Empire, which implies
the rejection of all annexation plans on the part of our opponents. That includes the French
plan to re-incorporate Alsace-Lorraine with France, no matter in what form that end may be sought.

"II. In order to secure free economic development for the German nation, we demand:

"(a) The 'open door,' i.e., equal rights for commercial and such-like activities in all colonial
territories.

"(b) The inclusion of the most-favoured-nation clause in the articles of peace of all the nations
now at war.

"(c) The furthering of an economic entente by abolishing tariffs, etc., as far as possible.

"(d) The equalization and improvement of the social-political institutions according to ideals
aimed at by the workmen's international party.

"(e) The freedom of the seas is to be guaranteed by an international treaty. To this end the
right of capture at sea must be abolished, and all straits and narrows of importance for world
commerce, must be internationalized.

"III. In the interests of Germany's security and the free exercise of commercial and economic
efforts in South-Eastern Europe, we reject all the warlike aims of the Quadruple Alliance to
weaken or disintegrate Austria-Hungary and Turkey.

"IV.--In consideration of the fact that the annexation of territories inhabited by another
race transgresses the rights of nations to govern themselves; furthermore because thereby,
the unity and strength of Germany would be weakened and her foreign relations seriously and
permanently injured, we oppose the plans in that direction cherished by shortsighted conquest-politicians.[87]

[Footnote 87: There are two and a half lines of dots at this point. Probably the German censor
has cut out a sentence.]

"V.--The terrible destruction and sufferings brought upon humanity by this war have won over
millions of hearts to the ideal of a world peace, permanently secured by an international court
of justice. The attainment of this end must be recognized as the highest moral duty of all
those who are appointed to the work of framing a peace. Therefore we demand that an international
arbitration court shall be created which shall settle all future difference between the nations."[88]

[Footnote 88: Leipziger Volkszeitung, August 23rd, 1915.]

This imaginary peace-treaty is what Germans would call a Zankapfel (apple of discord). It may
represent the serious opinions of Germany's greatest political party, but the German Government
will welcome it because it will give Germany's sympathizers in France, England, Italy and Russia
an excellent weapon with which they can attack their respective Governments, and hamper them
in protecting their national interests. It will doubtless be an inspiration to the members
of the I.L.P. and the U.D.C.[89]

[Footnote 89: Above prophecy written end of August; fulfilled in the Labour Leader October
28th.--Author.]

If the German Government seriously formulated such proposals, the author believes that all
Britishers worthy of the name would simply answer: "Fight on!" On this assumption the proposals
deserve no discussion.

Yet the document is interesting as revealing the mind of Social Democratic Germany. These sublime
Pharisees are unconscious of Belgium's wrongs and Germany's crimes. The former deserve no compensation
and the latter no penalty. Here we are on the bed-rock of their ideas of justice and humanitarianism.
Still we are not altogether surprised, because the Democratic newspaper organs have openly
defended and justified the atrocities committed by German soldiers, and whenever any particularly
damning evidence has been produced their parole has consistently been: "At any rate, now is
not the time to discuss it." According to their comprehension the only time for discussion
is when Europe is under the German heel. They are willing to discuss--when discussion can no
longer injure the Fatherland, when Germany has gained all she wants.

The most remarkable metamorphosis which the German Democrats have undergone, is shown in their
changed attitude to England. This country gave a home to Marx and Engels; the former is buried
in Highgate cemetery. For many decades the party professed enthusiastic admiration of British
institutions and our ideals of personal freedom. Their admiration for England was not always
convenient to the German Government, and was certainly a thorn in the side of the Kaiser.

In 1898 the party published a "Handbook for Social Democratic Voters," which contains lengthy
explanations of their entire policy. Therein they justify their opposition to German naval
expansion, and while conceding that naval supremacy is vital and indispensable to England,
continue: "Boundless plans are veiled beneath the Navy Bill (1897). The hotspurs among the
water-patriots dream of a first-class navy which might rival, yes, even surpass the British fleet.

"For the water-patriots the Navy Bill means an instrument to further their unlimited Weltpolitik
and schemes of conquest; a weapon with which to realize their mad imaginings of a greater Germany.
They desire to employ it as a tool for their absolutist plans and adventurous world enterprises.

"It increases the risk of foreign conflicts. At the same time it brightens the prospects of
success of those influential circles which--impelled by an overpowering impulse to deeds, and
inspired by a diseased longing for prestige--press on from excitement to excitement, from daring
to daring, and from crisis to crisis."

This remarkable prophecy has been verified by history, but with its realization, the party
which made it has been converted to the side of their former opponents. To-day the Social Democrats
are just as hearty in the desire to see Britain overthrown and British naval supremacy smashed
as is the Kaiser's Government.

No impartial thinker dare deny that the British fleet has been the principal factor in preventing
Europe's subjugation to German autocracy, and the world to German militarism. Yet the so-called
party of freedom prays earnestly that this fleet may be destroyed. This represents the tone
of their daily Press, and the change of attitude has been proved to be scientifically correct
in various books published by their leaders during the present year. One of these works will
be quoted at considerable length, because of its importance in showing what the "pioneers of
liberty" wish, may be the end of the "home of liberty." The work bears the title, "German Social
Democracy and the World War;"[90] its author is a Socialist member of the Reichstag.

[Footnote 90: "Die deutsche Sozialdemokratie und der Weltkrieg," by Dr. Paul Lensch, published
by the Vorwärts Publishing House. Berlin, 1915.]

In dealing with England he refers to their former admiration for this country and proceeds
to prove that it was wrong--wrong in the interests of Germany, and the world. England's fight
against Napoleon for European freedom Dr. Lensch disposes of in a sentence: "Consumed by greed,
England took the long-yearned-for opportunity and fell upon her rival, France" (p. 16).

He informs his readers that England and Russia are two beasts of prey. England's disarmament
proposals were only intended to secure her naval supremacy, because Germany seemed to be escaping
from the strangulation cord which. England had drawn tight round her throat. Therefore three
problems present themselves to Dr. Lensch, which the war must solve:

(1.) Shall the German people continue to exist as an independent nation?

(2.) Shall the danger of Czarism continue to threaten West European culture?

(3.) Shall Britain's naval supremacy be eternalized or overthrown, seeing that Britain only
allows other nations to develop, so far as they are compatible with her national interests?
(p. 15).

"England's oft-praised freedom is based upon the enslavement of the world; the peoples now
recognize that England's wealth, freedom, and greatness are merely the corollary to their poverty,
slavery and wretchedness (p. 20).

"International Socialism has not the slightest interest in helping to bolster up this supremacy
(p. 22).

"When this monopoly is broken the English working classes will lose their present privileged
position. They will be reduced to the same level as the workmen of other lands. Then Socialism
will flourish in England (p. 23).[91]

[Footnote 91: The author had fondly imagined that the British workman stood foremost as the
result of his own battles. In any case, it is to be hoped that British Socialists will be grateful
for "Genosse" Lensch's prayers for their downfall.]

"No party stands to lose more by a British victory than Social Democracy. The overthrow of
England's world-position would clear the way for the continuation of the world's progress on
the right historical lines, and its economic development (p. 25).

"In the present world war the interests of the internationalists are bound up in a German victory.
Hence a German victory would be a victory for Marx's internationalism, and only then, would
the hearts and heads of English workmen be open to the intellectual schooling of the Socialistic
idea (p. 27).

"As early as the eighties in the last century, Friedrich Engels proved that the ruin of England's
industrial monopoly had begun. What the scientist had foretold, became evident to all eyes
two decades later. The social system of the greatest, world-ruling industrial State was shaken
to its foundations. International Socialists had every reason to welcome this peaceful downfall
of England's world power" (pp. 21-22).

"Marx once wrote that war is like a locomotive in the history of the world. May this war have
that effect and under full steam lead to a finish the work which peaceful development had already
commenced, i.e., the downfall of English supremacy. If the war hastens and concludes this process,
then the sacrifices in blood and treasure will not have been in vain. A great stumbling-block
to human progress and especially to the proletarian fight for freedom will have been hurled
out of the way" (pp. 27-8).

Having failed during a peaceful fight of over forty years, to hurl German autocracy and militarism
out of the world, these hot-headed pioneers of liberty (Kaiserdom?) wish to destroy the very
State which was their place of refuge when German "liberty" overwhelmed them with its kindly
attentions.

Still we cannot be too grateful to Dr. Lensch for his lucid statement. It is an effective reply
to Germany's sympathizers in this country, and if British workmen should ever see these lines,
it will interest them to know that German Socialists are anxious to pull them down a little,
in the belief that if British workmen are cut short in their luxuries they will become better
Socialists and Internationalists.

Dr. Lensch has only one step more to take, and he will certainly gain the highest German order--pour
le mérite. The famous Communist manifesto of Marx and Engels concludes with the words: "Proletarians
of all lands, unite!" It is much to be desired that Dr. Lensch should amend this by adding
to Marx's phrase a few words, so that the amended form would run:

"Proletarians of all lands, unite to sing 'Deutschland, Deutschland, über alles.'" By this
simple means the learned doctor would condense the entire teachings of his book into a single
sentence.

"The position to-day is that the interests of freedom and democracy are utterly at variance
with a French victory (p. 42).

"Greater Prussia was founded by the war of 1866, while the 1870 struggle established a Little
Germany. Through the present war Great Germany will be created" (p. 46).

On another page this Socialist-Chauvinist proclaims that "the freedom of the oppressed must
be the work of the oppressed themselves," which is a principle that the I.L.P. and U.D.C.,
etc., would do well to note. "The peculiarity of our situation is to be found in the fact that
extraordinarily advanced ideals have penetrated into our unripe conditions."[92]

[Footnote 92: Louis Bamberger in an essay on German Social Democracy in the Deutsche Rundschau,
vol. 14, p. 243.]

It is to these "unripe conditions" that Lensch, Liebknecht, David, Hildenbrand and the remaining
leaders of German Social Democracy should give their undivided attention. Last year the Berlin
Government published a record of crimes committed in Germany. It is the most awful record of
any nation in the world, and the above gentlemen would do well to study Volume 267 of the Vierteljahrshefte.
There were hundreds of thousands of brutal crimes committed in Germany by German proletarians
during the year 1912.

For half a century Marx, Lassalle, Bebel, Liebknecht and their successors have been busily
engaged in intellectualizing Germany's proletarians; now it is advisable for the Socialist
party to begin the work of humanizing them. Their efforts to internationalize the world have
resulted in a hopeless débâcle; let them now begin the task of humanizing Germany. They have
all evidently forgotten the German proverb: Kehr vor deiner eignen Tür! (Sweep first before
your own door.)

CHAPTER VII

"NECESSITY KNOWS NO LAW"

On August 2nd, 1914, Belgium announced her neutrality in the European war; France had already
declared her intention to respect Belgian neutrality at all costs. On the other hand we have
Bethmann-Hollweg's word that he knew French armies were standing ready to strike at Germany
through Belgium. This statement he has never supported by any proof, nor even mentioned his
authority for the same.[93] In view of the facts that no military preparations had been made
on the Franco-Belgian frontier, and that the German armies first came into contact with French
forces long after the fall of Liége, we are compelled to declare the German Chancellor's statement
to be a pure invention.

[Footnote 93: So-called "evidence" has been given by Richard Grasshoff in his book "Belgien's
Schuld" ("Belgium's Guilt"), pp. 14-20. Grasshoff quotes the sworn statements of a German corporal
who resided in Boitsfort, near Brussels. The corporal states that he saw two French and one
English officer in Brussels on July 26th, and eight French soldiers on July 29th.

The statements of three French soldiers, prisoners of war in Germany, are also cited; these
men maintain that they entered Belgium on the 31st of July and the 2nd of August.

With regard to this "evidence," we must note that Grasshoff is a German official, the corporal
a German spy, and that the Frenchmen have made these statements in a prisoners' camp, a place
where they were exposed to the temptation of German gold and the influence of Teutonic bullying.
Lastly, the Berlin General Staff has recorded that the German armies first came in touch with
French troops on August 19th, near Namur.]

Moreover Germany's excuse for invading Belgium is given in the title of this chapter. Had Germany
possessed any proof that French officers in disguise were organizing preparations in Belgium,
or that French airmen had crossed the latter's territories in order to drop bombs by Wesel,
etc., then Bethmann-Hollweg would have had no reason to admit in the Reichstag that his country
was committing a breach of international law. Under such circumstances Belgian neutrality would
no longer have existed; the Chancellor, instead of "necessity," could have pleaded justification
and the world could scarcely have withheld its approval.

In the early hours of August 4th the Germans crossed the Belgian frontier, although the Cologne
Gazette had published a notice three days before announcing that Germany had no intention whatever
of taking the step, and that no German troops were near the frontier.

General von Emmich immediately issued this proclamation in French: "To my great regret German
troops have been compelled to enter Belgian territory. They are acting under the compulsion
of unavoidable necessity, for French officers in disguise have already violated Belgian neutrality
by trying to reach Germany, via Belgium, in motor-cars.[94]

[Footnote 94: One wonders what military purpose these officers had in view. They would have
been inevitably arrested at the German frontier. The fable was made public by Wolff's Agency,
and has been ridiculed even by the German Press, vide pp. 96-7.]

"Belgians! it is my most ardent desire that it may yet be possible to avoid a struggle between
two peoples which up till now, have been friends, formerly even allies. Remember the glorious
days of La Belle Alliance, when German arms helped to found the independence and future of
your Fatherland.

"Now we must have a free way. The destruction of tunnels, bridges and railways will be considered
hostile actions. Belgians! you have to choose. The German army does not intend to fight against
you, but seeks a free path against the enemy who wishes to attack us. That is all we desire.

"Herewith I give the Belgian people an official pledge that they will not have to suffer under
the terrors of war; that we will pay ready money for all necessaries which we may have to requisition;
that our soldiers will show themselves the best friends of a nation for which we have the highest
esteem and ardent affection. It depends upon your prudence and your patriotism whether your
land shall be spared the horrors of war." (Appeared in the Cologne Gazette, August 6th.)

A Dresden paper of the same date contains an illuminating statement. "We have just received
official information that the German General Staff had been informed by an absolutely reliable
source that the French intended to march through the valley of the Meuse into Belgium. The
execution of this plan had already commenced, therefore France was by no means prepared to
respect Belgian neutrality."

"For years past the King of Belgium has conspired with England behind the backs of his ministers,
to damage German interests. His telegram to the King of England was a trick planned long ago.
These facts will soon be supplemented by a large number of documentary proofs; from this the
necessity has arisen to direct Germany's advance through Belgium irrespective of neutrality
considerations."[95]

[Footnote 95: Leipziger Neueste Nachrichten, August 9th.]

Here we have the first clumsy attempts to prove that Belgian neutrality did not exist. These
after-thoughts have grown during the past year into no inconsiderable literature. Probably
the two motives which have inspired Germany--official and unofficial--to print many volumes
on Belgian neutrality have been the indignation aroused in neutral countries and the fact that
a complete German victory was not obtained in three months of war.

German newspapers again betray the plot against Belgium, and a search through their files reveals
in the clearest manner possible how Wolff's Bureau was again the source of a widespread campaign
to prove that Germany was right, and simultaneously to lash public opinion into hatred for
the Belgian "barbarians and beasts."

In the first few days of August the Press was filled with reports concerning the murder and
ill treatment of Germans in Belgium, before any act of war had taken place. No doubt a justified
fear for the mighty, brutal neighbour existed in the popular imagination, and fear may be the
father of ill-considered deeds. Nevertheless, there is no proof that mob law prevailed in Belgium,
as it did in Germany. Moreover, the latter country outlawed herself when she proclaimed the
law of necessity. In the light of this consideration the German outcry that the Belgians were
breaking both the laws of humanity and international jurisprudence lacks sincerity and remains
unconvincing.

A country which announces her intention to ignore existing laws and "hack a way through at
all costs," should surely be the last to declaim on the alleged offences against the laws of
war by a small, weak, unprepared neighbour. If these considerations are insufficient, there
remains the fact that Germany herself began war against unarmed Belgian civilians.

During the night following the unsuccessful coup de main against Liége, a Zeppelin attacked
the town and dropped bombs. "On Thursday, August 6th, at 3.30 a.m. Z6 returned from an air-cruise
over Belgium. The airship took a conspicuous part in the attack on Liége, and was able to intervene
in a markedly successful manner. Our first bomb was dropped from a height of 1,800 feet, but
failed to explode. The ship then sank to 900 feet above the city, and a non-commissioned officer
dropped twelve more bombs, all of which exploded, setting the city ablaze in several places."[96]

[Footnote 96: German official report in the Berliner Tageblatt, August 10th.]

An Austrian who was in the town afterwards described the attack in the Grazer Tagespost. According
to this witness it was already daylight when the airship appeared, and the effect of the bombs
was truly awful. In view of the circumstance that it was already light, Germany cannot put
forward the defence that the bombs were intended for the twelve forts which surround Liége
at a distance of some miles.

This is the earliest official record of an attack upon civilians--and it came from the German
side! The crew of Z6 were the recipients of a tremendous ovation on their return, while the
news of this dastardly murder was received with jubilation throughout the German Empire. In
Lunéville fifteen civilians were killed by airship bombs two days earlier; shortly afterwards
followed the attack by airship on civilians in Antwerp.

The author has before him about one hundred different newspaper reports, alleging the most
awful barbarism on the part of the Belgians. Among the numerous statements that Germans were
murdered, only two names are mentioned, and both these men are alive to-day; the one is Herr
Weber, proprietor of an hotel in Antwerp.

"We have now received full details of the murder of the German, Weber. He had fled from his
pursuers and hidden himself in a cellar. As the raging mob could not find him they burnt sulphur
in the house, which caused Weber to break into a violent fit of coughing. This betrayed his
hiding-place; he was dragged out and murdered."[97]

[Footnote 97: Hamburger Fremdenblatt, August 12th, and simultaneously in many other journals.
On the following day the Vorwärts announced that Herr Weber had returned to Germany in the
company of their own correspondent.]

"The German pork-butcher, Deckel, who had a large business in Brussels, was attacked in his
house by a crowd of Belgian beasts because he had refused to hang a Belgian flag before his
shop; with axes and hatchets the mob cut off his head and hewed his corpse in pieces."[98]

[Footnote 98: Kölnische Volkszeitung, August 10th.]

A few days later the Berliner Tageblatt informed its readers that Herr Deckel was residing
in Rotterdam, and had suffered no harm whatever.

Readers who are acquainted with the official record of brutal crimes committed year by year
in Germany and the haughty contempt for civilian rights which the whole German army has consistently
shown in the Fatherland, during the orderly times of peace, will require little imagination
to conceive that this same army would show still less consideration for civilians in a country
which they were wrongfully invading.

The German Press during the last thirty years, as well as many books published in the Fatherland,
contains ample proof of German brutality at home, and above all, of the legal brutality of
German non-commissioned and commissioned officers. How can Germany expect the world to believe,
that these same men, were transformed into decent human beings by the mere act of stepping
over the Belgian frontier?

Granted that vulgar elements of the Belgian population did transgress, there still remains
incontrovertible evidence that almost unheard-of kindness was shown to the invading army, and
that Germans had displayed brutal insolence to Belgians before a state of war had been declared.
Nearly every single letter from soldiers, published in German papers, records the fact that
in the villages through which they passed they were given water, wine and food, while payment
was in many cases refused.

It is part of Germany's policy to blacken Belgium's character in order to justify her own ruthlessness--naturally
Wolff's Agency was one of the principal tools to that end.

"Much as we condemn the excesses of the Belgians, still we must not wreak vengeance on the
whole nation as a section of our Press demands. Have not harmless and defenceless foreigners
been terribly ill-treated in Germany without distinction of sex? Have not shops and restaurants
been demolished in hundreds, wherever a French word was to be met? And the rage of the German
masses has found an outlet not only against foreigners, but against good German patriots and
even German officers."[99]

[Footnote 99: Leipziger Volkszeitung, August 12th. This journal as well as the Fränkische Tagespost
names Wolff's Agency as their authority in more than one issue.]

The same journal on the preceding day deplored that "we ourselves are not free from guilt."
It recounts how German reservists, when leaving Antwerp and Brussels, had sung their national
songs in a loud, provocative manner, and taunted the bystanders with such remarks as: "In three
days we shall be here again!"

According to the same authority German residents had insulted the populace by displaying their
national flag; and German employers had been among the first to discharge employees of their
own nationality, without salary in lieu of notice, thus increasing the difficulties of German
residents in Belgium.

German official pronouncements are much more reticent in their judgment on these allegations
of Belgian cruelties. None the less the Berlin Government must be held responsible for them
being scattered throughout the land. After Germany's official representative had returned from
Brussels to Berlin he made a statement to the Press. Considering that von Below was in the
Belgian capital at the time, his views are instructive.

He expressed his great astonishment that such things should have happened, and asserted that
up till the very last minute he had been treated with the greatest kindness and politeness.
Neither he nor any of his Legation Staff had experienced the slightest unpleasantness. Further,
von Below expressed the conviction that only single instances of such excesses had occurred
and these were a result of the quarrelsome Walloon character. No village fête passes off among
them without such outbreaks, accompanied by bloodshed.[100]

[Footnote 100: This may be true, but von Below could have said the same with absolute truth
of German village fairs, Kirmesse, etc.--Author.]

German papers of August 15th reported this official version, and four days later a proclamation
was issued by State Secretary Dr. Delbrück, calling upon all persons who had been ill-treated
in Belgium to report themselves, so that the "numerous" newspaper reports could be confirmed
or refuted. The result of the inquiry has never been published.

From a number of witnesses who testified whole-heartedly to Belgian kindness, one will suffice.
A lady reported her adventures in the Vorwärts of September 6th, from which the following sentences
have been gleaned. "Even if it is true that Germans were subjected to inconsideration and ill-treatment
during their flight from Belgium, still there are hundreds of Germans who, like myself, met
with generous sympathy and unstinted help.

"A Flemish servant refused her month's wages, saying that her employers would need it on the
journey. Many Germans were offered homes in Belgian families till the war was over. My own
landlord in Brussels placed an empty flat at my disposal for German refugees. At parting he
and his wife were as deeply moved as we, and when I began to make excuses for being unable
to pay the rent, she at once prevented me from speaking another word. My husband was provided
with a hat which looked less 'German;' they filled our pockets with provisions for the journey,
and after his wife had embraced me and my child we left the house in silence.

"German refugees whom I met afterwards, related hundreds of similar acts of kindness. When
such severe accusations are raised against the entire Belgian people, justice demands this
statement that Belgians in hundreds of cases, uninfluenced by the prevailing bitterness, showed
themselves kindly, helpful and humane towards the Germans."

In the second month of the war two representatives of the Social Democratic Party received
special permission from the General Staff to visit Belgium and the theatre of war in Northern
France. Their report has been issued by the Vorwärts Publishing House.[101]

[Footnote 101: "Kriegsfahrten durch Belgien und Nordfrankreich" ("Journeys in War Time through
Belgium, etc."), by Dr. Adolph Koester and G. Noske.]

"Concerning the events and conditions in Belgium many false reports have been spread abroad.
That is especially the case in regard to the terrible persecutions of Germans immediately before
the outbreak of war. The civil authorities (German) are now permitting full investigation in
those parts of Belgium occupied by our troops, and it is already obvious that many exaggerations
were circulated by German newspapers. Without doubt beer-houses and business houses were wrecked,
but the Tartar stories which were reported in Germany and Belgium, Herr von Sandt, Chief of
the Civil Administration, puts down to hysterics, and the desire of some people to make themselves
important."[102]

[Footnote 102: Ibid., pp. 14-15.]

No correct judgment on the apportionment of right and wrong between the Belgian civilians and
the German army is possible without taking into consideration the status of militarism in each
of these countries before the war. As far as Belgium is concerned, the army was looked upon
as a necessary evil. The Social Democratic doctrines imported from Germany had obtained such
a hold upon the people that the Belgian Government experienced ever-increasing difficulty in
getting supplies voted in the House of Deputies, for defence purposes. Belgian Socialists unfortunately
played into the hands of the German Government by doing their utmost to prevent money from
being spent for the defence of their country. Consciously or unconsciously, German Socialists
have rendered the Kaiser and his army inestimable service. Their propaganda against armaments
has borne fruit in Belgium, England and France, but did not prevent a single German battleship
from being built, nor a single regiment from being added to the German army.

In Germany militarism is a gospel. All classes and all political parties have been unanimous
for years past, that every man should be a soldier. The military ethos has ruled supreme, and
whenever civilianism has dared, merely to cherish thoughts contrary to the ideals of the ruling
caste, no time was lost in seeking an opportunity to challenge a quarrel which invariably ended
in humiliation for the civilian ethos. Characteristically, therefore, the contemptuous phrase
has become current both in the German army and navy--"das Civil"--when speaking of the non-military
elements of the nation.

Imbued with these traditions and inspired by this contempt for everything civilian, the German
armies invaded Belgium, and it may be safely assumed that in a country where the civilian ethos
predominated, looks, words, and even deeds, expressed hostility. Such "provocation" would certainly
rouse the military ego to a revenge ten thousand-fold greater than that taken at Zabern. German
militarism brooks neither contempt, criticism, nor opposition from German civilians, and much
less so from the civilians of another nation.

When it is possible to obtain cool and clear accounts of the events in Belgium, the author
has no doubt whatever, that proofs of civilian-baiting will be forthcoming in that unhappy
country. The policy of frightfulness was not only intended to drive an enemy into abject submission
and as a punishment for resistance to Germany's imperious will, but it was the military ethos
in strife with the civilian spirit.

In order to hinder the march of the invaders the trees lining the roads were cut down and formed
into barriers, but the civilian population was compelled at the bayonet's point to remove all
obstacles and thus assist in the conquest of their native country.

"The magnificent tall fir-trees which are so characteristic of Belgian roads, had been felled
across the highways. But all the civilian population which could be found, without regard to
age, rank, or sex, was forced by our advancing cavalry to clear it all away. One can imagine
the joy of the Belgians in performing this task!"[103]

[Footnote 103: "Unser Vormarsch bis zur Marne" ("Our advance to the Marne"), by a Saxon officer,
p. 22.]

This writer, too, chronicles many instances of kindness. "I was billeted in a peasant's house
at the western exit of the village. Three beautiful children, trembling with fear, watched
us come in, for besides me there were twenty-four men. We had received emphatic warnings from
headquarters not to allow soldiers to be billeted alone. The woman gave us everything she could
find and it was almost necessary to use force to get her to accept payment."[104]

[Footnote 104: Ibid., p. 25.]

"A load of shot struck the ground at the feet of my horse. Before I had calmed the animal a
N.C.O. marching at my side had finished off the dirty Belgian scoundrel, who was now hanging
dead from a roof window.

"Foaming with rage, my field-greys surrounded the house, in which only a few of the dogs were
taken captive, the others were immediately slaughtered. A boy hardly fifteen years old was
dragged out of a wet ditch with a gun in his hand. Before being brought to me, this youthful
swine had been thrashed from head to foot. Besides the men, two women and a girl were taken.

"Meanwhile a terrible hand-to-hand fight was going on throughout the long, scattered village.
Infantry and artillerists smashed the doors and windows; no mercy was shown to anyone, and
the houses were set alight. An attempt to storm the church-tower failed because the occupants
fired from above. Bundles of straw were brought, paraffin poured on them, and the tower set
on fire. Above the roar of the flames we could distinctly hear the shrieks of the murderers
shut in there.

"I gave orders to a squad to shoot our prisoners, but a deadly bullet finished the career of
the lying, scoundrelly priest as he was trying to escape. Our losses were remarkably small,
only two men being killed and a number wounded."[105]

[Footnote 105: Ibid., p. 43-4.]

In all cases where German soldiers asked for water from the inhabitants, the latter had to
take a drink first. "Before tasting the water both man and wife had to drink first, and as
this scene was repeated on innumerable occasions, it was delightful to observe the comic desperation
with which the people took their involuntary 'water cure.'"[106]

[Footnote 106: "Mit der Kluck'schen Armee nach Belgien" ("With von Kluck's Army into Belgium"),
by Dr. Jos. Risse, p. 17.]

Dr. Risse's interesting diary contains one or two important passages illustrating the relation
between conquerors and conquered. Like many other German writers, he saw no hostile act on
the part of the civilian population, but they came to him as rumours. "That night we slept
in a barn. Here we heard that a village near Dahlem had been burned down because the inhabitants
had cut the throat of a sleeping ambulance attendant.

"On continuing our march we suddenly entered a wide vale. The horizon was blood-red and huge
clouds of smoke drifted heavenwards. On all sides the villages were in flames. In the last
village before Louvain the sight was terrible in the extreme; houses ablaze; pools of blood
in the street; here and there a dead civilian; pieces of Belgian equipment, haversacks, boots
and trousers lay around; while the inhabitants stood about with their hands raised above their
heads.

"It was said that hostile cavalry had hidden in the village and together with a part of the
inhabitants had fired on our troops. We only saw the consequences.

"After a long rest before Louvain we entered the town at 7 p.m. Our artillery had taken up
a semi-circular position on the heights around and directed their cannon on to the town."[107]

[Footnote 107: Ibid., pp. 22-3.]

The above events occurred on August 19th, exactly six days before the sack of Louvain. It strikes
one as remarkable that the German cannon were even on that day directed against an unfortified
city.

Risse was among the first German troops to enter Brussels. "Our route took us through some
of the principal streets, and various splendid buildings including the Royal palace. Joy shone
in our faces and a feeling of pride swelled our breasts at being the first to enter Belgium's
capital. These feelings found expression in our talk and shouts. The man behind me shouted
to every bewildered, staring Belgian whom we passed: 'Yes, young fellow, you are astonished,
you blockhead!' On we marched with the air of victors.

"The inhabitants were exceedingly kind, so that one had not at all the feeling of being in
the capital of an enemy. They brought us water, lemonade, beer, cigars, cigarettes, etc., without
asking for any payment."[108]

[Footnote 108: Ibid., pp. 26-7.]

The same writer refers to similar hospitality in various parts of his book. After passing through
Brussels he continues his diary: "Sunday, August 23rd. Nothing came of our hopes for a rest-day.
Shortly after 5 a.m. we were ready for the march. A fine rain was falling as we passed through
village after village. We saw the villagers with frightened faces hurrying to church, carrying
prayer-books. Notices from the Belgian Government were placarded on the houses, warning the
people to avoid every kind of hostility towards the Germans."[109]

[Footnote 109: Ibid., p. 31.]

From the last sentence it is evident that the Belgian authorities did not incite the civilian
population to resistance. Other German war-writers state that the Belgian and French Governments
had organized a franc-tireur warfare long before, and this accusation is one of the pillars
of Germany's defence for the destruction of Louvain.

"Soon after crossing the frontier we saw the first ruined house. Our route led us down the
same road on which a few days before the violent and bitter struggles had taken place between
German troops and Belgian soldiers, aided by the inhabitants. The Belgians have supported their
troops in a manner which can only be described as bestial and cruel. From the houses they have
shot at troops on the march, and of course their homes have been reduced to ashes.

"The road from Aix-la-Chapelle to Liége is one long, sad line of desolation.[110] Otherwise
the district is fertile; now, however, sadness and devastation reign supreme. Nearly every
second house is a heap of ruins, while the houses which are still standing are empty and deserted.

[Footnote 110: On September 8th, 1914, the Kaiser sent a long telegram to President Wilson,
in which he defended the German armies against the charges of ruthless atrocities. He euphemistically
stated that "a few villages have been destroyed."]

"On every side signs of destruction; furniture and house utensils lie around; not a pane of
glass but what is broken. Still the inhabitants themselves are to blame, for have they not
shot at our poor, tired soldiers?"[111]

[Footnote 111: "Mit den Königin-Fusilieren durch Belgien" ("With the Queen Fusiliers through
Belgium"), by H. Knutz, p. 13.]

That is the utmost sympathy which any German has expressed for Belgium. The German public is
fully informed of all that has been done, and considers that they have been brutally, wrongfully
treated. Lord Bryce's report as well as the French and Belgian official reports have been dealt
with at considerable length in the German Press, but receive no credence whatever; they are
lies, all lies invented to blacken the character of poor, noble, generous Germany!

Germans are well aware of the awful number of brutal crimes which their men-folk commit year
by year at home. Yet they are absolutely convinced that these same men are immediately transformed
into chivalrous knights so soon as they don the Kaiser's uniform. They seem incapable of conceiving
that a race which debauches its own women, can hardly be expected to show the crudest forms
of respect to the women of an enemy people.

Herr Knutz--an elementary school-teacher in civilian attire, and a non-commissioned officer
when in the German army--seems to possess some rays of human feeling. "Just as I was leaving
the fort I saw seven or eight Belgian civilians guarded by our men with fixed bayonets. They
were charged with firing on German soldiers. I must say that the lamentations of these men--aged
from 20 to 50--made a deep impression on me. They had thrown themselves upon their knees, and
with raised hands were weeping and beseeching that their lives might be spared.

"The villagers are exceedingly ignorant, and when their land is in danger, believe themselves
justified in seizing any old shot-gun or revolver which lies at hand. Probably some of the
more prudent are aware that it is a mad enterprise, but the instinct of self-defence is so
innate in the simple country people that advice does not help in the least." (Von Bethmann-Hollweg
and von Tirpitz justify the use of gas, the sinking of merchant vessels containing women and
children, the dropping of bombs on open towns, etc., etc., by the plea of self-defence.--Author.)

"But it is otherwise with regard to the atrocities on our wounded; these are a stain on Belgium's
national honour which will not easily be wiped out. A German would never perpetrate such monstrous
crimes,[112] and that we can say without any overweening opinion of ourselves."[113]

[Footnote 112: This is hypocrisy or ignorance.--Author.]

[Footnote 113: Ibid., pp. 18-19.]

Herr Knutz offers no proof of the alleged atrocities; he has heard of them, believes and repeats
the story. I have some fifty German books describing the war in Belgium, and in all of them
similar legends are mentioned, but in no single instance is a case proved and nailed down.
No victim is named, and the scene of the alleged atrocity is never given, hence it seems to
be the usual German artifice to make Stimmung, i.e., to raise feeling.

One thumb-nail picture from the teacher's diary shows that the Germans created only too well
a Stimmung of abject terror among the Belgians.

"This morning, August 19th, we searched a small wood for Belgians, but found none. On leaving
the wood a touching picture met our eyes. Several families were fleeing with their children,
and the barest necessaries of life, into a neighbouring village. An old woman on crutches was
trying in vain to keep up; a young mother with a sucking child was sobbing and pressing the
babe to her bosom. The boys were weeping bitterly and holding their hands high to prove that
they were harmless. We passed by the ruins of Roosbeck, where civilians had shot on the 20th
Artillery Regiment, for which reason it was burnt down."[114]

[Footnote 114: Ibid., p. 27.]

Among the various interesting pictures of the Fatherland sketched by German authors perhaps
the following is the most naïve: "English, French and Belgians, hand in hand; how nicely it
was all thought out; Belgian neutrality--so solemnly pledged by all the Powers--was nothing
but a screen behind which they wrought the most devilish plans against Germany. It was a neutrality
which had long since been betrayed and sold by the Belgian Government.

"But the German people--a pure fool-like Parsifal, who could not conceive such treachery and
knavery because it was incapable of such things itself--toiled and worked day by day, enjoyed
the blessings of peace, was happy in its existence and ignorant of the looming clouds gathering
on its frontiers. All hail to our chosen leaders who kept watch and ward over a dreaming people,
and did not allow themselves to be lulled into watchlessness by the lies of our enemies, who
while talking of peace intrigued for our annihilation."[115]

[Footnote 115: "Von Lüttich bis Flandern" ("From Liége to Flanders"), by Wilhelm Kotzde. Weimar,
1914; p. 5.]

The same author's opinion of the Belgians coincides with that expressed by many of his fellow
countrymen. "What did our troops find by the roadside? On all sides haversacks, straps, cartridges,
caps, tunics and rifles. To our soldiers this was a remarkable sign of flight, for they are
accustomed to military training of a different sort. In the forts, it is true, they found among
the soldiers also civilians wearing patent-leather shoes. Indeed, the whole Belgian campaign
has shown how badly the army was prepared and equipped.

"The lack of discipline and order is evident, however, in every department of Belgium's national
life, and these virtues they endeavoured to replace by cunning and cruelty--at least among
the Walloons."[116]

[Footnote 116: Ibid., pp. 61-2.]

A Knight of the Order of St. John[117] is still more cynical in his condemnation of the conquered
enemy: "The greatest misfortune in this land is unemployment; factories are inactive and shops
closed. The horrors of famine draw nearer, and we, as well as some neutral countries, are endeavouring
to relieve the tortures of want. But charity only encourages the laziness of the inhabitants.
Just as the refugees in Holland, the Belgians who have remained in their land would like to
put their hands in their pockets and be fed. Of course, that is not permissible, and the German
Government does its best to rap these lazy wretches on the fingers."

[Footnote 117: "Kriegsfahrten eines Johanniters," by Fedor von Zobeltitz, pp. 86-7.]

"It was characteristic that the Belgians always placed their hopes on foreign help and never
dared to rely on the strength of their own army. This alone is a serious symptom of national
weakness. Still, the Belgian army has fought bravely. It is true they had not the discipline
and preparation which distinguish the German troops, but everything which a badly equipped
and trained army could achieve they have done."[118]

[Footnote 118: Wilhelm Kotzde: "Von Lüttich bis Flandern," p. 71.]

It is not necessary for the author of this work to write a song of glorification for Belgium;
she has herself composed an epic of valour and self-sacrifice written in immortal deeds. At
present her only reward seems to be a desolate land in the hands of the conqueror, and the
graves of her fallen sons. Germany's evident intention is the annexation of that part of Belgium
where Flemish is spoken. At the moment of writing, Goliath has vanquished David. France and
England have a supreme duty to fulfil: they are called to avenge Belgium's wrongs, and thereby
establish the principle that even necessity must recognize law.

CHAPTER VIII

ATROCITIES

The question of Belgian atrocities is so important that no apology is required for giving the
British public every possible opportunity to sift evidence, and above all, to hear the German side.

In the interests of fair play we will allow a German lawyer[119] to state the case against
the Belgians. Herr Grasshoff is armed with two doctorates and is in practice as an advocate
in one of the higher courts of law (Kammergericht). Chapter III of his work is entitled: "The
Belgian Outrages;" in the foregoing chapter he endeavours to show that the Belgian Press had
worked upon public opinion and lashed it into such a state that atrocities and mutilations
of Germans by Belgian men, women, boys and girls were the natural consequences.

[Footnote 119: Richard Grasshoff: "Belgien's Schuld" ("Belgium's Guilt").]

"That the goaded rage of the lower classes found expression in nameless horrors is unfortunately
a sorry truth. The proofs? We are not in a position to satisfy the desire for sensation with
a cabinet of horrors. The equipment of the German army does not include either the jars or
the chemical fluids for preserving hacked-off limbs, hence it is impossible to display exhibits
as in a museum. Our hospitals do not admit the dead.

"If Germany should be compelled to conduct a second campaign against the cultured peoples of
Western Europe, then she will not forget to add the above articles to her equipment in any
future war against such opponents. Pitying mother earth covers the murdered victims."

This eloquent lawyer has overlooked the aid which the art of photography affords, and as the
German army was well equipped with cameras, some tangible proofs could still have been procured--assuming
there were any shred of truth in Germany's accusations. The Berlin Government has circulated
photographs of dum-dum bullets, i.e., English and French bullets with the points cut off. It
is true no statement is offered regarding the time and place of the points being cut off, which
leaves us free to believe that captured ammunition was "doctored" in this manner by the Germans
themselves. "Necessity knows no law" is a principle capable of the widest application.

Grasshoff's work was only published a few months ago, so that he had ample time to collect
facts and proofs--the result is, six detailed cases with the names of his German informants
and their regiments. In each case the "evidence" is of an exceedingly doubtful character; in
view of the gravity of the charges, the lack of corroboration (each case is "proved" by one
witness alone), and the partisanship of all concerned, we may safely conclude that no court
of justice would convict on it.

The same criticism applies to the official White Book, published in June or July of the present
year. Every witness had previously sworn an oath to protect the German flag (der Fahneneid)
which precludes the probability of all impartiality in the witness and makes bias (Befangenheit)
his simple duty. Another important factor to be borne in mind is the hysterical, morbid self-importance
of the German nation in general, which causes police and members of the German army to shoot
or cut down with the sword their own civilians for the most trivial offences, even in times
of peace.

The White Book in question contains a six-page introduction stating the charges against Belgian
civilians, and three hundred and seventeen pages of sworn evidence of German officers and soldiers
taken for the most part in Belgium and France. A few extracts from the introduction will suffice
to make the German side clear.

"Finally, there is not the slightest doubt that Belgian civilians robbed and killed German
wounded; in short, mutilated them in a barbarous manner; even women and young girls participated
in these atrocities. Hence German wounded have had their eyes gouged out, noses, ears, fingers
and genitals cut off and their bodies cut open; in other cases German soldiers have been poisoned,
hanged on trees, or had burning liquids poured on them, causing death in a most terrible form.

"This bestial behaviour on the part of the civilian population is a breach of Article I., Convention
of Geneva,[120] and the principles of military law, as well as the principles of humanity" (p. 4).

[Footnote 120: Self-proclaimed outlaws cite the law when it suits their purpose!--Author.]

"The guilt for these transgressions of international law lies largely at the door of the Belgian
Government. The latter has made an attempt to rid itself of responsibility by ascribing the
guilt to the rage for destruction in the German troops, who are accused of proceeding to deeds
of violence without any reason or ground.[121]

[Footnote 121: Certainly, just as in Germany in peace time.--Author.]

"An examining commission has been appointed by the Belgian Government to inquire into the alleged
cruelties of German soldiers, and the evidence thus obtained has been made the subject of diplomatic
complaints. This attempt to pervert the truth has absolutely failed.

"The German army is accustomed to wage war against hostile troops, but not against peaceful
citizens.[122] Investigations conducted by any examining commission whatsoever, can never dispose
of the irrefutable fact that German troops were forced by Belgium's native population to take
defensive measures in the interests of self-preservation.

[Footnote 122: German non-commissioned officers are accustomed to kick and beat German privates,
and the behaviour of German soldiers to fellow-subjects is aptly illustrated by Lieutenant
Förster fighting a pitched battle with a lame old cobbler in Zabern.--Author.]

"The refugees' tales collected by the Belgian commission and declared by them to be the result
of an impartial investigation bear a stamp which makes them unworthy of belief. According to
the nature of things, the commission is not in a position to test the veracity of such rumours
or to apprehend the association of events. Hence, their accusations against the German army
are nothing other than base slanders which are completely invalidated by the accompanying documents"
(pp. 5-6).

It must be assumed that readers are acquainted with the official publications of the Belgian
and French Governments accusing the German army with waging war in an atrocious manner, as
well as the report of Lord Bryce's commission and Professor Morgan's report in the "Nineteenth
Century" for June. In the above extract the Berlin Government rules them one and all out of
court, which is the author's justification for making no use of their evidence.

Fortunately the Roman Catholic Church of Germany has published a refutation of Germany's White
Book, and surely this authority deserves credence. The work in question bears the title: "Der
Lügengeist im Völkerkrieg," Kriegsmärchen gesammelt von Bernhard Duhr, S.J. ("The Spirit of
Lying in the War of the Nations," War Legends collected by the Rev. Bernhard Duhr, S.J.).[123]
The reverend gentleman castigates all the nations at war with the same offence--lying. His
work should have permanent value in the literature of war psychology, but he only undertakes
to expose German lies, and in his 72-paged booklet he proves to the hilt the charges made in
this work.

[Footnote 123: The author hopes to publish a complete translation shortly.]

In his introduction the Rev. Duhr states that the office of the Priests' Society "Pax" in Cologne
has taken great pains to expose and refute lies as fast as they have appeared. The original
documents are preserved in the above office and may be seen by anyone who cares to apply.

Probably one of the motives actuating the Society "Pax" and the Rev. B. Duhr was the intention
to refute the accusations of cruel outrages by Belgian and French Catholic priests. Whatever
their motives may have been, one thing is certain, they have produced most convincing proof
of German mendacity. It is to be hoped that the "Pax" will give the world the benefit of all
the documents in their possession.

Even the Kaiser had the audacity to state in his telegram of September 8th, 1914, to President
Wilson that "women and priests have been guilty of atrocities in this guerilla warfare." For
reasons easy to understand the reverend gentleman does not introduce the Kaiser's name into
his booklet, but in the introduction he remarks: "Finally the refutation of such fairy-tales
is a patriotic duty. Nothing is more essential for us Germans, especially in war time, than
unity; but this harmony is necessarily endangered by religious bitterness and strife. Of a
necessity it must cause deep pain and embitterment to our Catholic population when again and
again ENTIRELY UNTRUE ACCUSATIONS are made against the priesthood of their Church."

The Rev. Duhr's exposure of what he calls "erlogener Schauergeschichten" ("lying horror tales")
kills most of the "fairy-tales" accusing the Russians, French and Belgians of atrocities on
German soldiers. A few illustrations will suffice to show the absence of all foundation for
the charges against the Belgians; charges, we must remember, which the German soldiery believed,
and which convinced them they were performing a holy task at Louvain, Tirlemont, Dinant, etc.

"On October 1st, 1914, a telegraphic agency (Wolff's?) issued the following notice: 'A high
Bavarian officer writing from the front has informed the München-Augsburger Abendzeitung of
this incident. South of Cambrai a column of German motor-cars was attacked by a company of
French cyclists. For the most part the guard was killed by rifle fire, while the cars were
all burnt. Later a German patrol discovered the remains, and on investigation, found that the
dead Germans had all had their eyes gouged out.'"

The reverend Father comments as follows: "On following up this case, it was impossible to prove
whether the patrol had seen rightly or whether they had really made the report at all. So much
is certain, however, that in the matter of eyes being gouged out, an absolute mania of gruesomeness
broke loose. An innumerable swarm of such horrible tales were told, passed on, and finally
guaranteed as true--AND YET THEY WERE ALL FAIRY-TALES. A few cases will suffice.

"In September, 1914, the following paragraph appeared in the papers: 'Several ladies engaged
in Red Cross work on Cologne Station were informed with every assurance of truth, that a hospital
at Aix-la-Chapelle contained a whole ward full of wounded whose eyes had been gouged out on
the battlefields of Belgium.'

"On September 26th the editor of the Catholic Kölnische Volkszeitung wrote to Dr. Kaufmann,
a high Roman Catholic dignitary in Aix-la-Chapelle, begging him to ascertain whether the report
were true. Two days later that gentleman replied: 'As regards the rumour mentioned in your
letter, I beg to inform you that I at once put myself in communication with the authorities.
I inquired of the doctor in charge of a hospital here (he is, by the way, a famous specialist
for the eyes), and he assures me that in all the local hospitals there is no ward for wounded
whose eyes have been put out, AND SUCH A CASE HAS NEVER BEEN OBSERVED in the town, although
the place is full of wounded.'

"A second report which the same journal exposed dates from October, 1914. Recently Dean A.,
who is the Superior in a military hospital in the Franciscan Nunnery at S., came to us and
reported that a wounded soldier had told him that he had heard[124] that in the monastery Bl.
by V., in Holland, there were twenty-two wounded German soldiers whose eyes had been gouged
out by Belgians. The Dean begged us to write to the Mother Superior and ask for confirmation
of the story. We did write, and the lady answered that there was no hospital at all in the
cloister Bl."[125]

[Footnote 124: The words "hear" and "heard" occur very frequently in these legends.--Author.]

[Footnote 125: The Rev. Duhr's book, pp. 11-12.]

The same lie travelled to Bonn, Sigmaringen, Potsdam, Bremen, and was successively nailed down
by the Volkszeitung. Inquiries were made in all directions wherever a case of gouged-out eyes
was reported, the result being everywhere the same--a fairy-tale.

Yet when the German Imperial Chancellor received a party of American journalists (representatives
of the United Press and the Associated Press) on September 2nd, 1914, he communicated this
statement: "The English will inform your countrymen that German troops have burnt down Belgian
villages and towns, but they will conceal the fact that Belgian girls have gouged out the eyes
of our helpless soldiers lying on the battlefields."

"Berlin papers informed the public that 'a large number of Belgian civilians were prisoners
in Münster. They are the same bestial creatures who shot from their houses on our unsuspecting
troops, and who, before the arrival of our invading armies in Belgium, had perpetrated all
sorts of cruelties on helpless German citizens. Indeed, when they were searched on their arrival
at the prisoners' camp fingers with rings on them, which they had hacked off their victims,
were found in their pockets. Justice will soon strike down these Belgians, among whom a very
large number of priests are to be found. Twenty to thirty have already been condemned to death
by a court-martial.'

"The 'Pax' Society of Priests immediately wrote to the commander of the prisoners' camp, and
received this reply: 'The ridiculous assertion of a Berlin paper that fingers had been found
in the pockets of Belgian civilians in this camp is false. Neither has any priest or layman
been condemned to death, but over one hundred Belgian women and children have been sent home
again.'"[126]

[Footnote 126: Ibid., p. 19.]

The above extracts will suffice to show how these Roman Catholic gentlemen proceeded. Immediately
an atrocity was reported they applied to the authorities, and in every case received an affirmation
that the deed had never taken place. Among the monstrous lies exposed by these investigators,
are reports that Belgian priests paid eight shillings for every German head brought to them;
high treason charges against Catholic priests in Alsace; all kinds of monstrous crimes charged
to the priesthood; that a Belgian boy was caught with a bucketful of dead Germans' eyes; espionage
by priests etc., etc.

Yet one other case deserves quotation: "On October 5th, 1914, a priest was travelling by rail
to Mayence. In the same compartment there were four privates from Infantry Regiment No. 94.
One of them named Rössner, related the following story to his comrades, and then, at the priest's
request, again repeated it:

"'In the Belgian village of Patsie the curé welcomed a German major and his orderly into his
house. Afterwards the priest promised a boy of thirteen that he should go straight to heaven
if he would murder the two Germans. The lad perpetrated the murder, after which he and the
curé were shot under martial law.'

"When the priest pointed out how incredible the whole story was, the soldier swore to its truth,
and became very impolite to his auditor. An inquiry was instituted and this was the result:

  "'War Office, No. 1866. The investigations made, in especial the
  hearing under oath of private Rössner and several officers in his
  regiment, have resulted in the following particulars being obtained:
  At the beginning of the campaign as the troops marched into a
  village--name unknown--they saw by the roadside two or three dead
  civilians. One was apparently a boy of about thirteen, while the other
  was an adult with a dark coat. It was not established whether this was
  the body of a priest. Furthermore, we have not been able to discover
  by whom, or for what reason, these people were shot.

  "'At that time the story quoted by you about a curé and a boy, was
  told as a "rumour" to all the troops marching through. It is
  impossible after the lapse of time to test the truth of the narrative.

  "'Signed by order,

  "'BAUER AND WAGNER.'"[127]

[Footnote 127: Ibid., pp. 54-5.]

The above document may be said, without presumption, to possess historic importance. It is
a frank admission by the German War Office that Belgian civilians were actually shot down without
rhyme or reason. Apparently German soldiers (!) had a carte blanche to shoot whom they liked,
without rendering or being expected to render a report of their doings.

The Rev. Duhr writes: "The incredible speed with which these lying tales of horror spread on
all sides must be classed as a morbid phenomenon, a sort of blood-cult. Their consequences
could only be to act upon the national soul as a stimulant, inspiring fear and brutality."[128]

[Footnote 128: Ibid., p. 9.]

The author of this work is prepared to go much farther than the Rev. Father, and maintain that
the foul, diseased imaginations which could invent such monstrous horrors are also capable
of perpetrating them. They did not spring from the imagination of an Edgar Allan Poe, but arose
in the minds of Germany's brutal peasantry and bloodthirsty working classes, who together every
year commit in times of peace 9,000 acts of brutal, immoral bestiality, and maliciously wound
175,000 of their fellow German citizens.[129]

[Footnote 129: Vide Vol. 267 Vierteljahrshefte, published by the Berlin Government, 1914.]

To-day Germany shouts in ecstasy that she is the chosen power of God; that her Kultur will
regenerate the world. Let it first regenerate the "Augean Stable" known to the world as Germany.
Without further comment readers are left to form their own opinion of a Press which breeds
such filth, and the cultural level of a people which consumes such garbage. But the world owes
a debt of gratitude to the Rev. Bernhard Duhr, S.J., and the "Pax" Society in Cologne.

The accusations of plundering on the part of German soldiers is naturally denied in toto by
all parties in the Fatherland. Indeed, it has been discovered that the British army was guilty
of wilful destruction in Belgium. A certain Major Krusemarck, commanding the 2nd battalion
of the 12th Infantry Reserve Regiment, is responsible for the story. "On October 10th I entered
Wilryk, near Antwerp, and took up my quarters in the Italian Consulate. All the houses had
been deserted by the inhabitants. Immediately after entering the house I perceived that English
soldiers had been here and behaved in a barbarous manner. Mirrors, valuable objects of art,
etc., had been smashed in a way which betrayed purpose." The major's report continues: "The
destruction which I have described had undoubtedly been perpetrated by members of the English
army, and as proof of this I may state that in one of the rooms about a dozen visiting-cards
were found with the name: Major E.L. Gerrard, Royal Marine Light Infantery (sic).

"During the subsequent pursuit of the Belgian and English armies we heard repeated complaints
from the inhabitants that especially the English troops had acted in the most inconsiderate
manner, purposely destroying furniture, etc., in civilian houses."[130]

[Footnote 130: Richard Grasshoff: "Belgien's Schuld," p. 84.]

Without doubt the story belongs to the group of legends exposed by the "Pax" Society, for which
reason it is quoted here, as a fitting supplement to them. Yet it is psychologically interesting
to note how difficult it is for Germans who burn, destroy and violate in their own country
to believe that they behave otherwise than as lambs when playing the rôle of invaders.

One quotation from a large number will illustrate sufficiently the respect which the German
troops felt for civilian homes in the territories occupied by them: "We got into the house
by a back-door. Orders had been issued that only food and shirts were to be taken. The cellar
was full of wine and champagne. A corporal brought us some of the latter. After half an hour
the rooms looked very different; all the cupboards had been emptied in order to get at the
jams and jellies. Several pots of fruit preserved in wine were divided as honestly as the greed
of the individual allowed.

"All the underclothing was seized upon, obviously only the best being taken. Many a dirty Pole
put on such a shirt as he had never dreamed of before. Even ladies' chemises were commandeered,
and some of the men assured me that a French chemise is quite comfortable--in spite of the
short sleeves.

"If there is a sterner sex in France, which is exceedingly doubtful, they do not seem to possess
pants; so the men resorted to the corresponding article worn by ladies."[131] (This writer
refers in other parts of his book to "mementoes" which he carried home to the Fatherland, after
being wounded at the Marne.)

[Footnote 131: H. Knutz: "Mit den Königin-Fusilieren durch Belgien," p. 42.]

CHAPTER IX

THE NEUTRALITY OF BELGIUM AND GERMANY'S ANNEXATION PROPAGANDA

"Afterthoughts" is the term which would perhaps designate most concisely the section of German
war literature treating of Belgium's violated neutrality. Should that designation appear unfitting,
then the author has only one other to suggest--"whitewash."

In order to apprehend clearly the method and aims concealed beneath the "afterthoughts," readers
must bear in mind that every attempt to protest against the annexation of Belgium by Germany
is prohibited by the German censor. The Social Democratic organs emphasize the fact almost
daily that they are not permitted to print anything contrary to the principle of annexation.

On the other hand, numerous writers are allowed to make a most extensive propaganda by suggesting
that annexation is necessary in the interests of their racial-brothers the Flemings. By order
of the German Government a geographical description of the country has been published,[132]
in which every detail of Belgium's wealth in minerals, agriculture, and so on, is described,
with no other possible purpose than the desire to whet German Michael's appetite.

[Footnote 132: "Belgien, Land und Leute," Berlin, 1915.]

All at once Germany has become suspiciously interested in Belgian history, in the domestic
quarrels between Walloons and Flemings, in the alleged oppression of the latter (Low Germans)
by the former, and propose for themselves the part of liberator and saviour for Flemish culture.
They have discovered, among other things, that Belgium was merely a paper State, a diplomatic
invention, an experiment, and that no "Belgian" people has ever existed, but rather two hostile
elements were packed under the same roof against their will by the Conference of London--the
said roof bears the name Belgium!

According to a good German-Swiss[133] the Belgians have no national feelings, no patriotism,
and have never had a Fatherland. If a serious writer can make such statements after the Belgians
have defended their native country so heroically, one naturally wonders whether Herr Blocher
is sane, or merely a paid agent of the German authorities. In his work he denies every and
any intention to justify or condemn either Germany or Belgium, and then proceeds to blacken
the latter's character by quoting every Belgian utterance which may be interpreted as anti-German.
These expressions lead him to the remarkable conclusion that Belgians had already violated
their own neutrality!

[Footnote 133: "Belgische Neutralität," by Eduard Blocher. Zurich, 1915.]

Blocher states that his work is only intended to prove that Switzerland has nothing to fear
from Germany's precedent in invading Belgium. But he never mentions Belgium's maritime interests,
Antwerp and the extensive seacoast on the North Sea. He is oblivious to the fact that Germany's
desire to possess these was the sole motive for precipitating war and invading Belgium. To
Germany the coast of Belgium is the door to the world and world domination. Switzerland does
not possess such a door, and therefore had nothing to fear from her powerful neighbour; but
if the Allies are unable to bar this door to Germany's aggressive schemes, then the time is
not far distant when Germany would remember that she has "brothers" within Swiss frontiers
and insist upon their entrance into the great Teutonic sheepfold--just as her most earnest
desire at present is to drive the "lost" Flemings back to their parent race.

Among the many phrases which Germans have coined to describe Belgium the following occur: bastard,
eunuch and hermaphrodite. According to the German conception of a "State," Belgium is an unnatural
monstrosity, from which one draws the natural conclusion that Germany intends to remove it
from the domain of earthly affairs.

On the whole, German writers admit the existence of Belgian neutrality, and also Germany's
pledge to respect it. The three most serious writers on the subject are, Dr. Reinhard Frank,[134]
professor of jurisprudence in Munich University; Dr. Karl Hampe,[135] professor in Heidelberg;
and Dr. Walter Schoenborn,[136] also a professor in Heidelberg University.

[Footnote 134: Reinhard Frank: "Die belgische Neutralität." Tubingen, 1915.]

[Footnote 135: Karl Hampe: "Belgien's Vergangenheit und Gegenwart." Berlin, 1915.]

[Footnote 136: Walther Schoenborn: "Die Neutralität Belgien's." This is an appendix to a large
work written by twenty university professors, entitled "Deutschland und der Weltkrieg," published
by B.G. Teubner, Leipzig and Berlin, 1915.]

The nearer examination of these three works must be premised by two important considerations.
Firstly, the three professors ignore the fact that Germany was a menace to Belgium, and make
no mention of German aspirations for a coastline on or near the English Channel. Holland and
Belgium form a twentieth century "Naboth's vineyard," on which the German Ahab has cast avaricious
glances for upwards of forty years.

A casual acquaintance with Pan-German and German naval and military literature during the same
period, affords overwhelming proof of this powerful current in German nationalism. If Naboth
consulted strong neighbours as to necessary precautions against Ahab's plans for obtaining
the vineyard, then Naboth acted as a wise man, and the only regret to-day is that the "strong
neighbours" only offered Naboth assurances and words, instead of deeds. In other words Great
Britain did nothing because, as Lord Haldane expressed it, the Liberal Cabinet was "afraid"
(!) to offend Germany and precipitate a crisis.

Secondly, the three professors, like all others of their class in the Fatherland, have sworn
an oath on taking office not to do anything, either by word or deed, detrimental to the interests
of the German State of which they are official members. An ordinary German in writing on Germany
may be under the subjective influences of his national feelings, but a German who has taken
the "Staatseid" (oath to the State) cannot be objective in national questions and interests--his
oath leaves only one course open to him, and any departure from that course may mean the loss
of his daily bread.

The author has the greatest respect for the achievements of German professors in the domains
of science and abstract thought; by those achievements they have deservedly become famous,
but in all judgments where Germany's interests are concerned they are bound hand and foot.[137]

[Footnote 137: Towards the close of 1913 I had a conversation with half a dozen Germans (average
age twenty-five) in Erlangen Gymnasium (State Secondary School); they were candidates in training
for the teaching profession, all university men. I listened patiently to their diatribes concerning
the perfidy of English Statesmen, and then pointed out, giving chapter and verse in German
biographies, that Bismarck's record was exceedingly tortuous; the forgery of the Ems telegram
was given as an instance.

A few weeks later I met the vice-principal of the school at a private party; this gentleman
was a good friend of mine. He reminded me of the above conversation, and gave me a friendly
warning never again to make such statements to my pupils. The candidates had talked it over,
and although they had provoked the discussion, proposed to have me reported to the Minister
for Education for uttering such opinions. The vice-principal had intervened and prevented the
Denunziation.

If a professor of history in a German university expressed any opinion in his academic lectures
unfavourable to modern Germany, he would be immediately denunziert to the State authorities
by his own students. Should he publish such opinions in book form, of course the process of
cashiering him would be simpler. Germans do not desire the truth so far as their own country
is concerned; they do not will the truth; they will Deutschland über alles, and all information,
knowledge, or propaganda contrary to their will is prohibited. If space permitted I could mention
numerous cases in which famous professors have been treated like schoolboys by the German State--their
stern father and master.]

When a German conscript enters the army he takes the Fahneneid (oath on, and to, the flag),
which binds him to defend the Fatherland with bayonet and bullet. In like manner it may be
said that German professors are bound by the Staatseid either to discreet silence, or to employ
their intellectual pop-guns in defending Germany. That these pop-guns fire colossal untruths,
innuendoes, word-twistings, and such like missiles, giving out gases calculated to stupefy
and blind honest judgments, will become painfully evident in the course of our considerations.

That any and every German obeys the impulse to defend his country is just and praiseworthy;
but in our search for truth we are compelled to note the fact that German professors are merely
intellectual soldiers fighting for Germany. Without departing from the truth by one jot or
tittle, readers may even call them "outside clerks" of the German Foreign Office, or the "ink-slingers"
under the command of the German State.

These premises have been laid down in extenso because some fifty books will be discussed in
this work, which emanate from German universities. A neutral reader may retort: You also are
not impartial, for you are an Englishman! Having anticipated the question, the author ventures
to give an answer. If he could make a destructive attack on Britain's policy--the attack would
be made without the least hesitation. Such an attack, if proved to the hilt, would bring any
man renown, and in the worst case no harm. But if a German professor launched an attack, based
upon incontrovertible facts, against Bethmann-Hollweg and Germany's policy, that professor
would be ruined in time of peace and in all probability imprisoned, or sent to penal servitude
in time of war.

Nothing which the present author could write would ever tarnish the reputation of German professors
as men of science, but in the narrower limits as historians of the Fatherland and propagandists
of the Deutschland-über-alles gospel they are tied with fetters for the like of which we should
seek in vain at the universities of Great Britain or America. It would be in the interests
of truth and impartiality if every German professor who writes on the "Causes of the World
War," "England's Conspiracy against Germany," "The Non-Existence of Belgian Neutrality," and
similar themes, would print the German Staatseid on the front page of his book. The text of
that oath would materially assist his readers in forming an opinion regarding the trustworthiness
and impartiality of the professor's conclusions.

Professor Frank commences his historical sketch of Belgian neutrality with the year 1632, when
Cardinal Richelieu proposed that Belgium should be converted into an independent republic.
Doubtless the desire to found a buffer State inspired Richelieu, just as it did the representatives
of Prussia, Russia, France, Austria and England when they drew up the treaty guaranteeing Belgium's
neutrality in perpetuity, at the Conference of London, 1839.

But an additional motive actuated the diplomatists of 1839, viz., Belgium was henceforth to
be the corner-stone supporting the structure commonly designated "the balance of power in Europe."

An objection has been made to the validity of the treaty signed in London, viz., England herself
did not consider it reliable and binding, or she would not have asked for, and obtained, pledges
from both Prussia and France to respect Belgian neutrality in 1870. Another objection is the
claim that the German Empire, founded in 1870, was not bound by the Prussian signature attached
to a treaty in 1839. Other writers have endeavoured to show that the addition of African territory
(Congo Free State) to Belgium changed the political status of that country, exposed it to colonial
conflicts with two great colonial Powers, and thus tacitly ended the state of neutrality.

Each of the professors in question overrides these objections, and Frank remarks, p. 13: "Lawyers
and diplomatists refuse, and rightly so, to accept this view." Again, p. 14.: "There is no
international document in existence which has cancelled Belgian neutrality."

Germany's alleged violation of her promise to regard Belgium as a neutral country is justified
on quite other grounds. Belgium had herself violated her neutrality by a secret alliance with
France and England. Frank argues that a neutral State has certain duties imposed upon it in
peace time, and in support of his contention quotes Professor Arendt (Louvain University, 1845),
who wrote: "A neutral State may not conclude an alliance of defence and offence, by which in
case of war between two other States it is pledged to help one of them. Yet it is free and
possesses the right to form alliances to protect its neutrality and in its own defence, but
such defensive alliances can only be concluded after the outbreak of war."

Another authority quoted to support his point is Professor Hilty (University of Bern, 1889).
"A neutral State may not conclude a treaty in advance to protect its own neutrality, because
by this means a protectorate relationship would be created."

Frank continues (p. 21): "Hence Belgian neutrality was guaranteed in the interests of the balance
of power in Europe, and I have already pointed out that the same idea prevailed when the barrier-systems
of 1815 and 1818 were established.

"Considering the matter from this point of view, the falsity of modern Belgium's interpretation
at once becomes apparent. According to Belgian official opinion her neutrality obligations
only came into force in the event of war, and therefore could not be violated during peace.
But this balance of power was to be maintained, above all in time of peace, and might not be
disturbed by any peaceful negotiations whatever, especially if these were calculated to manifest
themselves in either advantageous or prejudicial form, in the event of war.

"In this category we may place the surrender of territory. No impartial thinker can deny that
the cession of Antwerp to England would have been a breach of neutrality on the part of Belgium,
even if it had occurred in peace time. The same is true for the granting of occupation rights,
and landing places for troops, or for the establishment of a harbour which might serve as a
basis for the military or naval operations of another State.

"Moreover, it is unnecessary to exert one's imagination in order to discover 'peaceful negotiations'
which are incompatible with permanent neutrality, for history offers us two exceedingly instructive
examples. When a tariff union between France and Belgium was proposed in 1840, England objected
because the plan was not in accord with Belgian neutrality. Again in 1868, when the Eastern
Railway Company of France sought to obtain railway concessions in Belgium, it was the latter
country which refused its consent, and in the subsequent parliamentary debate the step was
designated an act of neutrality."

From this extract it is evident that Professor Frank has undermined his own case. Belgian neutrality
was intended by the great powers to be the corner-stone of the European balance of power. During
the last forty years Germany's carefully meditated increase of armaments on land and sea threatened
to dislodge the corner-stone. When the Conference of London declared Belgium to be a permanently
neutral country, there was apparent equality of power on each side of the stone. In 1870 the
Franco-German war showed that the balance of power was already disturbed at this corner of
the European edifice. Still Germany's pledged word was considered sufficient guarantee of the
status quo.

Since 1870 the potential energy on the German side of the corner-stone has increased in an
unprecedented degree, and this huge energy has been consistently converted into concrete military
and naval forces. This alteration in the potential status quo ante has been partly the result
of natural growth, but in a still greater degree, to Germany's doctrine that it is only might
which counts.

Another German professor[138] had defined the position in a sentence: "Germany is a boiler
charged to danger-point with potential energy. In such a case is it a sound policy to try to
avert the possibility of an explosion by screwing down all its safety-valves?" Recognizing
that Belgian neutrality has existed for many years past solely on Germany's good-will, it became
the right and urgent duty of the other signatory powers to endeavour to strengthen the corner-stone.
Germany absolutely refused to relax in any way the pressure which her "potential energy" was
exercising at this point, therefore it was necessary above all for France and Great Britain
to bolster up the threatened corner.

[Footnote 138: Hermann Oncken (Heidelberg), in the Quarterly Review, October, 1913. The author
of the article charges Great Britain with screwing down the valves, which is a deliberate distortion
of the truth. Britain has always opened her markets free to German goods and admitted the same
privileges to her rival--so far as these did not run contrary to established rights--in all
parts of the world. With regard to territorial expansion a treaty had been drawn up between
the two Powers and was ready to be signed just when war broke out. That treaty would have afforded
Germany immense opportunities for expansion, but not at the expense of Europe. Germany, however,
desired European expansion, and according to her accepted teaching, the fate of extra-European
territories will be decided on the battlefields of Europe.]

The former Power could have achieved this purpose by building a chain of huge fortresses along
her Belgian frontier. Why this precautionary measure was never taken is difficult to surmise,
but had it been taken, Germany would have ascribed to her neighbour plans of aggression--and
declared war.

Great Britain could have restored the balance by creating an army of several millions. Lord
Haldane has announced that the late Liberal Government was "afraid" to do this, although the
fear of losing office may have been greater than their fear for Germany.

The measures which England did take were merely non-binding conversations with the military
authorities of France and Belgium; the making of plans for putting a British garrison of defence
on Belgian territory in the event of the latter's neutrality being violated or threatened;
and the printing of books describing the means of communication in Belgium.[139]

[Footnote 139: "Belgium, Road and River Reports," prepared by the General Staff, Vol. I., 1912;
II., 1913; III. & IV., 1914. Copies of this work have been seized by the Germans in Belgium,
and capital is being made of the incident to prove a violation of Belgian neutrality. If the
British General Staff had nothing better to do than to compile guide-books to Belgium for a
non-existent British army, it appears merely amusing. But if the late Liberal Government believed
that Germany's potential energy could be prevented from breaking through into Belgian territory
by a barricade of guide-books--it was a lamentable error of judgment. On the whole we are forced
to call it a tragical irony, that the only defences which Belgium possessed against the furor
teutonicus--excepting the Belgian army--were a "scrap of paper" and a barricade of the same
material.]

As a result of these measures, Belgium stands charged by Germany with having broken her own
neutrality, and German writers are naively asking why Belgium did not give the same confidence
to Germany which she gave to England. The German mind knows quite well, that in building strategic
railways to the Belgian frontier she betrayed the line of direction which the potential energy
was intended to take, when the burst came. Unofficially Germany has long since proclaimed her
intention to invade Belgium; it was an "open secret."

The denouement of August 4th, 1914, when Belgian neutrality was declared a "scrap of paper,"[140]
was not the inspiration of a moment, nor a decision arrived at under the pressure of necessity,
but the result of years of military preparation and planning. It had been carefully arranged
that the boiler should pour forth its energy through the Belgian valve.

[Footnote 140: This famous phrase was employed as far back as 1855 by a Belgian Minister in
the House of Deputies, Brussels. M. Lebeau in pleading for greater military preparation used
these words: "History has shown what becomes of neutralities which were guaranteed, by what
may be termed a 'scrap of paper.'"]

Or to draw another comparison, it is a modern variety of the wolf and the lamb fable, with
this difference: the wolf has first of all swallowed the lamb, and now excuses himself by asserting
that the traitorous wretch had muddied the stream.

Belgians were painfully aware of the danger threatening them, and would have made greater efforts
to protect themselves, had not their own Social Democrats resisted every military proposal.
As the matter stands to-day, however, all the efforts which Belgium did make, are classed by
Germany as intrigues of the Triple Entente, threatening her (Germany's) existence, and all
the horrors which have fallen upon this gallant "neutral" country the German Pecksniff designates
"Belgium's Atonement."[141] It is to be feared that sooner or later, unless Germany's military
pride and unbounded greed of her neighbour's goods can be checked, German professors will be
engaged in the scientific task of proving that the waters of the upper Rhine are unpalatable
because the lamb residing in Holland has stirred up mud in the lower reaches of the same river!

[Footnote 141: Belgien's Sübne, the title of a chapter describing the desolation and havoc
of war, in a book entitled "Mit dem Hauptquartier nach Westen," by Heinrich Binder. Berlin, 1915.]

Belgium knew that England and France had no other interest than the maintenance of her neutrality.
Belgium saw and felt, where the storm clouds lowered, and probably sought or accepted advice
from those Powers who wished to perpetuate both the territorial integrity and neutrality of
Belgium. Germany's afterthought on the point is: "It was Belgium's duty to protect her neutrality,
and she owed this duty to all States alike in the interests of the balance of power--a conception
to which she owes her existence.

"She was bound to treat all the signatory Powers in the same manner, but she failed to do so,
in that she permitted one or two of them to gain an insight into her system of defence. By
this means she afforded the States admitted to her confidence, certain advantages which they
could employ for their own ends at any moment.

"By allowing certain of the great Powers to see her cards, Belgium was not supporting the European
balance, but seriously disturbing it. Even Belgium's Legation Secretary in Berlin had warned
his Government concerning the political dangers arising out of intimacy with England. By revealing
her system of defence to England, Belgium destroyed its intrinsic value and still more--she
violated her international obligations."[142]

[Footnote 142: Professor Frank's work, pp. 29-30.]

Considering that the British army at that time was small, that Britain had no idea of annexing
Belgian territory, one naturally wonders how the value of Belgium's defence system had been
depreciated by conversations with British officers. In effect, Germany maintains that Belgium
should have behaved as a nonentity, which is contrary to all reason.

The Berlin Government has always treated her small neighbour as a sovereign State, equal in
quality, though not in power, to any State in the world. If Germany recognized Belgium's sovereignty,
why should not England do the same, and, above all, why had Belgium no right to think of her
self-preservation, when she knew the danger on her eastern frontier grew more menacing month
by month?

Frank concludes his dissertation with his opinion of England and quotes Thucydides, V., 105,
as the best applicable characterization of the British with which he is acquainted. "Among
themselves, indeed, and out of respect for their traditional constitution, they prove to be
quite decent. As regards their treatment of foreigners, a great deal might be said, yet we
will try to express it in brief. Among all whom we know they are the most brazen in declaring
what is good to be agreeable, and what is profitable to be just."

The very offence which Germany accuses England of having premeditated, she committed herself
many years before. When France seemed to threaten Belgium's existence, King Leopold I. concluded
a secret treaty[143] with the king of Prussia, whereby the latter was empowered to enter Belgium
and occupy fortresses in case of France becoming dangerous. The French danger passed away,
and its place was taken by a more awful menace--the pressure of German potential energy; and
when Belgium in turn opened her heart (this is the unproved accusation which Germany makes
to-day--Author) to England, then she has violated her neutrality and undermined the balance
of power.[144] There is even a suspicion that Leopold II. renewed this treaty with Germany
in 1890, in spite of the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Prince de Chimay, in an
official speech denied its existence.

[Footnote 143: Germans love anything which is "secret." "Geheimniskrämerei" ("affectation of
mysteriousness and secrecy") is a national and individual characteristic of the German people.--Author.]

[Footnote 144: Karl Hampe: "Belgiens Vergangenheit und Gegenwart" ("Belgium Past and Present"),
p. 49.]

Professor Schoenborn's essay on Belgian neutrality is the least satisfactory exposition of
the three professorial effusions; it is no credit to a man of learning, and is merely the work
of an incapable partisan trying to make a bad cause into a good one. Schoenborn commences[145]
with the customary German tactics by stating that Bethmann-Hollweg's "scrap-of-paper" speech,
and von Jagow's (German Secretary of State) explanations to the Belgian representative in Berlin
on August 3rd, 1914, are of no importance in deciding the justice of Germany's violation of
her pledged word. One is led to inquire, When is a German utterance--whether given in the Reichstag
by the Chancellor or on paper in the form of a treaty--final and binding?

[Footnote 145: "Deutschland und der Weltkrieg" ("Germany and the World War"), pp. 566-8.]

Subterfuges, insinuations, distortions, even brazen falsehoods, are scattered throughout German
war literature, thicker "than Autumnal leaves in Vallombrosa's brook." It is to be feared that
just as Germans have lied for a century to prove that the English were annihilated at the battle
of Waterloo, and for over forty years to show that Bismarck was not a forger, so they will
lie for centuries to come in order to prove that the invasion of Belgium was not what Bethmann-Hollweg
called it, a "breach of international law."

Like his confrères, Herr Schoenborn admits that Germany was pledged to respect the neutrality
of Belgium, but the said neutrality was non-existent, which appears somewhat paradoxical. Yet
this is not the least logical part of his case. "The passage of German troops through Belgium
was indispensable in the interests of the preservation of the German Empire. A successful resistance
to the annihilation-plans which our enemies had wrought for our downfall seemed possible only
by this means. The Government regretted that, by so doing, we should commit a formal infringement
of the rights of a third State (Belgium), and promised to make all possible compensation for
the transgression.

"The judicial point of view which influenced the decision of the German Government is perhaps,
best illustrated by a parallel taken from the ordinary laws of the country: A forester (game-keeper)
is attacked by a poacher, and in that same moment perceives a second poacher bearing a gun
at full-cock, creeping into a strange house in order to obtain a better shot at the forester.
Just as he is about to enter the house the forester breaks the door open and thus forestalls
him--in order to surprise and overcome him. The forester is justified in taking this step,
but must make good all damage resulting to the householder."[146]

[Footnote 146: Ibid., p. 575.]

The instance holds good in the land of Kultur, where law and order affords so little protection
to a civilian and his property; but in countries where laws are based upon culture the author
believes that the forester would receive condign punishment for breaking into another man's
house, no matter under what pretext. Unconsciously the learned professor is humorous when he
compares Germany to a gamekeeper and Russia and France to poachers; but he is naïve to a degree
of stupidity, when he makes France carry a weapon fully prepared to shoot the forester.

We will consult another German authority to show that France's weapons were not at full-cock.

"During the last ten years France has given special attention to the fortresses on the German
frontier. But those facing Belgium have been so carelessly equipped that we see clearly to
what a degree she relied upon her neighbour. The forts are in the same condition as they were
twenty or thirty years ago. As some of these fortifications were built fifty years ago, various
points on the frontier are strategically, absolutely useless.

"A typical example of this, is Fort les Ayvelles, which is intended to protect the bridges
and Meuse crossings south of Mézières-Charleville; the fort was levelled to the ground by 300
shots from our 21-centimetre howitzers. It was built in 1878 and armed with forty cannon; of
these the principal weapons consisted of two batteries each containing six 9-centimetre cannon,
which, however, were cast in the years 1878-1880, and in the best case could only carry 4,000
yards. Then there were some 12-centimetre bronze pieces cast in 1884, and a few five-barrelled
revolver cannon.

"Besides these there were old howitzers from the year 1842; muzzle-loaders with the characteristic
pyramids of cannon ball by the side, such as are often used in Germany at village festivals
or to fire a salute. The fort itself was a perfect picture of the obsolete and out-of-date.
Apart from the crude, primitive equipment, the organization must have been faulty indeed.

"On the road leading up to the fort we saw some tree-branches which had been hurriedly placed
as obstacles, and higher up wire entanglements had been commenced at the last moment. At least
one battery was useless, for the field of fire was cut off by high trees, and at the last minute
the garrison had tried to place the guns in a better position.

"Our artillery which fired from a north-westerly position displayed a precision of aim which
is rare. One battery had had nearly every gun put out of action by clean hits. In several cases
we saw the barrel of the gun yards away from its carriage, and only a heap of wheels, earth,
stones, etc., marked the place where it had stood.

"Another proof of the excellent work done by the artillery, was the fact that hardly a shell
had struck the earth in the 500 yards from the battery to the fort. After the former had been
disposed of, the artillery fire was concentrated on the fort, which was reduced to a heap of
rubbish. The stonework and the high walls--yards thick--had tumbled to pieces like a child's
box of bricks.

"A garrison of 900 men had been placed in this useless cage, and they had fled almost at the
first shot. Instead of putting these men in trenches, their superiors had put them at this
'lost post' and allowed them to suffer the moral effects of a complete, inevitable defeat.

"Near the fort I saw the grave of its commander, the unfortunate man who had witnessed the
hopeless struggle. He lived to see his men save their lives in wild flight--and then ended
his own."[147]

[Footnote 147: Heinrich Binder: "Mit dem Hauptquartier nach Westen," pp. 107-9.]

Here we have a sorry picture of the poacher whom Germany feared so much. The world knows now
that neither Britain, France nor Russia were prepared for war, which excludes the probability
that they desired or provoked a conflict. But Germany knew that, and much more, in the month
of July, 1914. Bethmann-Hollweg when addressing the Reichstag drew a terrifying picture of
French armies[148] standing ready to invade Belgium, but he knew full well that the necessary
base-fortresses were lacking on the Franco-Belgian frontier.

[Footnote 148: Richard Grasshoff in his work "Belgien's Schuld" ("Belgium's Guilt"), p. 14
et seq., reproduces several confessions alleged to have been made by French soldiers, prisoners
of war in Germany, stating that they entered Belgian territory on July 31st, 1914. At present
it is impossible to test the value of this evidence. Cf. p. 151.]

As regards the alleged plans which Germany's enemies had made to annihilate Germany, it will
be necessary for Professor Schoenborn to prove that the Entente Powers had: (1.) Caused the
murder in Serajewo; (2.) Despatched the ultimatum to Serbia; (3.) Prepared themselves for war.
Until he proves these three points the world will continue to believe that it was Germany alone
who cherished "annihilation-plans."

Schoenborn mentions too, Britain's refusal to promise her neutrality even if Germany respected
the neutrality of Belgium. This offer was made to Sir Edward Grey, who declined it. According
to Professor Schoenborn Germany's final decision to invade Belgium was only taken after that
refusal. It is a striking example of the immorality which prevails both in Germany's business
and political life. She gave her solemn pledge in 1839, yet endeavoured to sell the same pledge
in 1914--for Britain's neutrality!

The author once made an agreement with a German, but soon found that the arrangement was ignored
and wrote to the person in question: "You have employed our arrangement merely as a means for
making further incursions into my rights."

That summarizes the Teutonic conception of a treaty, either private or national. It is only
a wedge with which to broaden the way for a further advance. Usually a man signs an agreement
with an idea of finality, and looks forward to freedom from further worry in the matter. Not
so the German; with him it is an instrument to obtain, or blackmail, further concessions; and
as individuals, instead of occupying their thoughts and energies in the faithful fulfilment
of its terms, they plot and plan in the pursuit of ulterior advantages.

Heidelberg's great scholar seems to have had doubts concerning his simile of the gamekeeper;
hence in his last footnote he makes the innocuous remark: "Because the house-breaking gamekeeper
fired the first shot, it is not usual to draw the conclusion that the poacher had only defensive
intentions" (p. 590).

All in all, Professor Schoenborn's attempt at partisanship is a miserable failure, and as an
academic thesis it is doubtful whether the faculty of law in any German university would grant
a student a degree for such a crude effort.

Various facts indicate Germany's intention to annex Belgium, if not the entire country, then
those districts in which Flemish is spoken. Germany has suddenly remembered that the Flemings
are a Low German people and that they have been "oppressed" by the Walloons. The hypocrisy
of the plea becomes evident when we recall German (including Austrian) oppression of the Poles,
Slavs and Hungarians.

One writer[149] has even endeavoured to prove that the House of Hesse has a legitimate historical
claim to the province of Brabant. But as the following extracts will show, there is method
in this madness. No pains are being spared to stir up racial feeling between the two peoples
(Flemings and Walloons) who form King Albert's subjects. All the internal differences are being
dished up to convince the inhabitants of Flanders that they will be much better off under the
German heel.[150]

[Footnote 149: Dr. Karl Knetsch: "Des Hauses Hessen Ansprüche auf Brabant" ("The House of Hesse's
Claims to Brabant"). Marburg, 1915.]

[Footnote 150: The Münchner Neueste Nachrichten for September 19th, 1915, contains a long account
of a petition which was presented to Herr von Hissing, General Governor of Belgium, by a branch
of the General Union of the Netherlands. The branch society is in Lierre (a town occupied by
the Germans), and the petition is a statement of Flemish national and language aspirations.
Unfortunately the document in question "makes a bitter attack on Franco-Belgian endeavours
to rob the Flemings of their rights." It is superfluous to quote more; this sentence alone
shows the origin of the petition to be German.]

Forgetting their tyrannous efforts to stamp out the Polish language and Polish national feelings,
the Germans are now sorrowing over the alleged attempts of the Walloons to suffocate the Flemish
dialect. German war books breathe hate and contempt for the Walloons, but bestow clumsy bear-like
caresses (no doubt unwelcome to their recipients) on the Flemings.

In a work[151] already cited the following passages occur, in addition to three whole chapters
intended to supply historical proof that Flanders is by the very nature of things a part of
the German Empire.

[Footnote 151: Wilhelm Kotzde: "Von Lüttich bis Flandern" ("From Liége into Flanders"). Weimar,
1914.]

"The German people committed a grave crime, when they fought among themselves and left their
race-brothers on the frontier, defenceless and at the mercy of a foreign Power. Therefore we
have no right to scold these brothers (the Flemings), but should rather fetch them back into
the German fold" (p. 40).

Kotzde reports a conversation which he had with an educated Fleming last autumn. "'We do not
like the French and English,' said the Fleming. 'But what about Brussels?' I remarked. 'They
are a people for themselves. The Flemish capital is Antwerp' he answered.

"Our paths led in different directions, but we parted with the consciousness that we are tribal
brothers. So much seems certain, that when the Flemings are freed from the embittering influence
of the Walloons and French, then this Low German tribe will again learn to love everything
German--because they are German. Furthermore, that will make an end of the French language
in Flemish districts" (p. 84).

"German infantry marched with us into Antwerp. How deeply it touched me to hear them sing the
'Wacht am Rhein' and then 'Deutschland, Deutschland über alles,' in the very city which was
to serve as an English base for operations against our dear Fatherland. And my Flemish companion
softly hummed this splendid German song of faith.

"In that moment a spasm of pain went through my heart, that the Flemings should have to fight
against us in this great struggle for the existence of Germany: these, our lost brothers, of
whom so many yearn to be with us again" (p. 86).

"With the fall of Antwerp, Flanders--the land of the German Hanse period, of Ghent, Ypres and
Bruges--became German once more" (p. 147).

Kotzde concludes his work as follows:--

"Holland was compelled to bow before the might of France and consent to Belgium becoming an
independent State. From that moment the Flemings, cut off in every way from their German brothers,
were delivered up to the Walloons, behind whom stood the French.

"The Germans at that time lacked a Bismarck to unite them and interest them in the fate of
their outlying brother tribe. This war has freed our hands, which hitherto had been bound by
the dictates of conscience. Of himself the German would never have kindled this world conflagration,
but others have hurled the torch into our abode--and our hands are free!

"We do not yet know what Belgium's fate will be, but we can be perfectly sure that the Flemings
will never again be left to the mercy of the Walloons and French. They have had a wild and
chequered history; and although they have often shown signs of barbarism in the fight, they
have not waged this war with the devilish cruelty of the Walloons.

"They lack the discipline which alone a well-ordered State can bestow. The training and education
of the German military system and German administration, will be a blessing to them. Even to-day
many Flemings bless the hour of their return into the German paternal home" (p. 190).

"In a struggle which has lasted for nearly a century, the Flemings have displayed their unconquerable
will to maintain their national peculiarities. Without outside aid, and with little or no deterioration,
they have maintained their nationalism. Now the horrors of war have swept over the lands of
the Flemings and Walloons. The Belgian army, consisting of 65 per cent. Flemings, has been
decimated by German arms. North and south of the Meuse a wicked harvest of hate has sprung
up. But the most remarkable point is that this hate is not directed against the Germans alone;
the mutual dislike of Flemings and Walloons has turned into hatred. The Walloons cherish bitter
suspicions of the Flemings; they scent the racial German, and are promising that after the
war they will wage a life and death feud against the German part of the Flemish nature."[152]

[Footnote 152: Ulrich Rauscher: "Belgien heute und morgen" ("Belgium to-day and to-morrow").
Leipzig, 1915; p. 35.]

The same writer claims that the Germans had conquered Antwerp before its fall, by peaceful
penetration. "In 1880 the British share of Antwerp's trade was 56 per cent., Germany's 9 per
cent.; in 1900, British 48 per cent., German 23-1/2 per cent. Not only had the British flag
been beaten in percentages but also in absolute figures; in the year 1912-1913 German trade
to Antwerp increased by 400,000 tons, while that of Great Britain decreased by 200,000 tons.
The commercial future of Antwerp will be German!"[153]

[Footnote 153: Ibid., p. 64.]

"To-day Antwerp is the second largest port on the Continent, with over 400,000 inhabitants,
and now Germany's war banner waves above its cathedral. Germany's maritime flag has waved during
the last twenty years above Antwerp's commercial progress. Antwerp's progress was German progress."[154]

[Footnote 154: Ibid., p. 68.]

After which follows a glowing account of Belgium's mineral wealth. "It is Belgium's mission
to be a gigantic factory for the rest of the world," and of course this mission will be directed
by--Germany!

"Those who had warned us for years past that England is our greatest enemy were right. To-day
every German recognizes who is our principal opponent in this world war. Against Russia and
France we fight, as the poet expresses it, 'with steel and bronze, and conclude a peace some
time or other.' But against England we wage war with the greatest bitterness and such an awful
rage, as only an entire and great people in their holy wrath can feel. The words of Lissauer's
'Hymn of Hate' were spoken out of the innermost depths of every German soul.

"When Hindenburg announces a new victory we are happy; when our front in the Argonne advances
we are satisfied; when our faithful Landsturm beats back a French attack in the Vosges, it
awakes a pleasurable pride in our breasts. But when progress is announced in Flanders, when
a single square yard of earth is captured by our brave troops in the Ypres district, then all
Germany is beside herself with pure joy. The seventy millions know only too well, that everything
depends upon the development of events in Flanders, as to when and how, we shall force England
to her knees.

"Hence of all the fields of war, Belgium is the most familiar to us, and we love best of all
to hear news from that quarter. May God grant that in the peace negotiations we shall hear
much more and good tidings about Flanders."[155]

[Footnote 155: Dr. Fritz Mittelmann: "Kreuz und Quer durch Belgien" ("Round and about Belgium").
Stettin, 1915: p. 8. Dr. Mittelmann is a personal friend of the Liberal leader, Herr Bassermann,
who accompanied him on some of his journeys.]

Dr. Mittelmann's book is a prose-poem in praise of Germany's ineffable greatness. He sees in
the present war, "a holy struggle for Germany's might and future," and like all his compatriots,
makes no mention of Austria. If the Central Powers should be victorious, there is no doubt
that Germany would seize the booty. In justifying the destruction of churches, cathedrals,
etc., Herr Mittelmann asserts that "one single German soldier is of more worth than all the
art treasures of our enemies" (p. 12).

His book deserves to be read by all Britishers who imagine that we can win Germany's love and
respect--by weakness and compromise. "In this war Germans and English soldiers are opposed
to each other for the first time. All the scorn and hate which had accumulated for years past
in the German nation has now broken loose with volcanic force. Whoever assumes that the English
were ever other than what they are--is wrong. They have never had ideals, and seek singly and
alone their own profit. Whenever they have fought side by side with another nation against
a common foe, they have done their best to weaken their ally and reap all the glory and advantage
for themselves."[156]

[Footnote 156: Ibid., p. 29.]

Pity for the Belgians suffering through Germany's brutal war of aggression does not appear
to be one of Dr. Mittelmann's weaknesses. "The principal industrial occupation of the inhabitants
seems at present to be begging. In spite of their hostile glances the crowd did not hesitate
to gather round as we entered our car, and quite a hundred greedy hands were stretched towards
us for alms. But in Liége, without the shadow of a doubt the best of all was the magnificent
Burgundy which we drank there; perhaps we had never relished wine so much in our lives."[157]
One wonders whether these pioneers of Kultur relished the wine so much because they knew themselves
to be surrounded by thousands of hungry, "greedy" Belgians.

[Footnote 157: Ibid., p. 44.]

On page 93, Mittelmann relates at length his genuine Prussian joy at humiliating a Belgian
policeman before the latter's compatriots. None enjoy having their boots licked, so much as
those who are accustomed to perform that service for others.

Our author pays the customary compliments to the Flemings. It must be remembered that the above
incident took place in Liége among the Walloons, but it would seem that the Germans try to
behave with decency when among their Low German brothers.

"One feels at home in the house of a Flemish peasant; the racial relationship tends to homeliness.
The painful cleanliness of the white-washed cottages makes a pleasant contrast to the homes
of the Walloons. War and politics are never mentioned, as these delicate subjects would prevent
a friendly understanding."[158]

[Footnote 158: Ibid., p. 90.]

"A dream. An old German dream. A land full of quaintness which the rush of modern life has
left untouched. On all sides cleanliness and order which makes the heart beat gladly. And this
joyful impression is doubly strong when one comes direct from the dirty, disorderly villages
of the Walloons.

"Just as a mother may give birth to two children with entirely different natures, so Belgium
affords hearth and home to two peoples in whose language, culture and customs there is neither
similarity nor harmony. The Flemings are absolutely German, and in this war they treat us with
friendly confidence. Their eyes do not glitter with fanatical hate like those of the Walloons."[159]

[Footnote 159: Heinrich Binder: "Mit dem Hauptquartier nach Westen," p. 102.]

Herr Binder's meditations on the slaughter in the valley of the Meuse are not without interest.
"A vale which has been won by German blood! In recent days the waters of the Meuse have often
flowed blood-red. Many a warrior has sunk into these depths. Longing and hope rise in our hearts:
May destiny determine that all these dead, after a triumphant war, shall sleep at rest in a
German valley!"[160]

[Footnote 160: Ibid., p. 122.]

CHAPTER X

SAIGNER À BLANC.[161]

[Footnote 161: "To bleed white." Bismarck employed this phrase on two occasions in addressing
the Reichstag; his purpose could have been no other than to bully France.--Author.]

It would be superfluous to review here the history of Franco-German relations during the last
half century; other writers have already performed the task. Yet the whole trend of development
in the relations between the two powerful neighbours may be defined by two watch-words: saigner
à blanc in Germany, and the revanche idée in France. But there is this difference: the former
has become ever more and more, and the latter less and less, a factor in European politics.

While the German nation has been gradually and systematically leavened with the teaching that
might alone is right, the French revenge party has been weakened year by year by national prosperity,
colonial expansion and the growth of a powerful anti-military party. Whatever may be said of
French chauvinists, this much remains an immovable fact--the party was incapable of providing
adequate national defences against the Germanic neighbour, while plans of reconquest can only
be assigned to the domain of myths.

On every occasion that the revanche cry has been resuscitated, the direct cause is to be sought
in Germany. Having displaced France in 1870 from her position of the first military power in
Europe, Germany has endeavoured by fair and foul means to prevent her neighbour from again
raising her head, and that policy alone is to blame for the suspicion and hatred which have
marked Franco-German relations during the whole period and plunged Europe into an era of armaments,
ending in a world war. England and Russia prevented Bismarck from annihilating France in 1875,
an incident which aroused justified fear throughout France and gave an impulse to the revenge
party.

In 1881 the Iron Chancellor told the French Ambassador: "Outside Europe you can do what you
like." Bismarck's intention was to divert reviving French energies to colonial work, and if
possible involve her in conflicts with the other Colonizing Powers. In both of these plans
he succeeded, but the common sense and loyalty of Great Britain and Italy prevented the conflicts
from assuming a dangerous form--war--as desired by the Government in Berlin.

As soon as the latter perceived that French genius and persistency were bearing fruit in a
magnificent colonial empire, the innate jealousy and greed of the German nation led to a policy
of colonial pinpricks on the part of the Kaiser's Government. This seems the most probable
explanation of Germany's attitude during the last decade before 1914. The natural consequence
was that those powers which had most to fear through German ill-will were welded together more
firmly in a policy of self-protection.

Germany cannot, or will not, recognize that the causes of the above-mentioned development are
to be found solely and alone in her own actions. On the contrary, she designates the "consequences"
a world-wide conspiracy against German interests. In naval affairs she adopts the same naïve
line of argument. First and foremost Germany committed herself to a policy of unlimited--even
provocative--naval expansion. When the Power most concerned--Great Britain--took precautionary
measures to guarantee British interests in view of Germany's "peaceful" development, then the
latter Power declared the consequences of her own actions to be a hostile initiative directed
against her.

A defence of this kind may be convincing for those who observe events in the German perspective,
but it will be unable to withstand impartial historical criticism. Boxers expect a rebound
when they "punch the ball," but none of them would be so foolish as to deny having delivered
a blow when the rebound takes place. Yet that is the unscientific defence which Germany has
adopted in her endeavours to explain away her aggressive attitude to Belgium, France, and Great
Britain.

In a word, the principles underlying saigner à blanc have grown during the past four decades
into a possible avalanche possessing huge potential energy; the momentum was given to it in
August, 1914.

If it were necessary, a picture of German popular opinion might be projected, showing how that
opinion was influenced and formed during the critical days at the close of July last year.
But from considerations of space only the outlines of the picture can be given. Before the
war German newspapers abounded in reports of French unpreparedness and chaos. The German public
was informed that France dreaded and feared war with Germany.

"Without any exaggeration it may be said that a state of nerves has seized the French nation,
such as we should seek for in vain at the time of Tangiers and Agadir. There is tremendous
excitement, which in many reports suggests absolute panic."[162]

[Footnote 162: Dresdner Neueste Nachrichten, August 1st.]

The Paris correspondent of the Kölnische Zeitung (August 4th) on returning to Cologne wrote:
"Conditions in France afford a striking picture of bad organization. War rage possesses the
people; but such an enthusiasm as I found in Germany on my return is unknown to them."

On the same day the Hamburger Nachrichten reported: "A German refugee who has returned from
the French capital says that there is no enthusiasm in Paris. Men and women may be seen weeping
in the streets, while the crowds are shouting: 'Down with war!' 'We desire no war!'"

Probably there is no better way to incite a ferocious bully than to tell him that his opponent
is weak, unprepared and afraid. Almost simultaneously false reports of French troops crossing
the frontier and of French airmen dropping bombs on Nuremberg were spread by the Berlin General
Staff, and thus an excuse found for a declaration of war on France.

From the French point of view events appeared quite different. "This morning German troops
have violated French territory at three different points: in the direction of Longwy by Lunéville,
at Cirey and by Belfort. War has thus been declared, and the endeavours for peace as described
in the President's proclamation have been in vain. For the last eight days Herr von Schoen
(German Ambassador in Paris) has lulled us to sleep with endearing protestations of peace.
Meanwhile Germany has mobilized troops in a secret and malevolent manner.

"The war upon which we must enter is for civilization against barbarism. All Frenchmen must
be united not merely by the feeling of duty, but also in hatred for an enemy who seeks no other
goal than our annihilation--the destruction of a nation which has always been a pioneer of
justice and liberty in the world.

"To-night our five covering-corps will take up their positions and face the enemy till our
plan of concentration is completed. Russia is with us.

"MESSIMY,

"Minister for War."

From the moment that Germany declared war on France, new tactics were adopted in the Press.
A campaign of calumny began which is the exact counterpart of that against Belgium and the
Belgians. Uncorroborated tales of Germans having been ill treated in all parts of France were
spread broadcast. According to one journal[163] sixty to eighty Germans had been murdered on
the platforms of the Gare de l'Est in Paris.

[Footnote 163: Kölnische Volkszeitung, August 5th.]

Still there is one accusation which even German newspapers have never dared to make, viz.,
that Frenchmen murdered and ill-treated Frenchmen, or that war delirium led them to destroy
property on a wholesale scale. On the other hand, the picture obtainable of Germany during
August, 1914, proves that similar peaceful conditions did not prevail in the great nation of
"drill and discipline."

France was even "convicted" of having caused the war; instead of being unprepared, she had
laid the fuse and was the guilty power in causing the European explosion. "The German Government
has now obtained absolute proof that France has been standing at arms, ready to fall upon Germany,
for many weeks past."[164]

[Footnote 164: Hamburger Fremdenblatt, August 13th.]

Above all, President Poincaré has been marked down in Germany's senseless, unnecessary hunt
for a scapegoat upon whom to fix her own guilt. Even in the year 1915 there is a section of
the German public[165] which believes that the French President--a native of Lorraine--has
worked for years past in building up a revanche conspiracy ending in the European war.

[Footnote 165: Dr. Max Beer: "Tzar Poincarew, die Schuld am Kriege" ("Czar Poincarew, the War-guilty").
Berlin, 1915.]

Germany despised France and has tried in vain to patronize her. For many years past the average
German has held that the French are a nation of "degenerate weaklings." Inspired by these sentiments,
with a mixture of hate, the German troops invaded France, and it is a promising symptom that
during twelve months of war respect for French valour has taken the place of contempt.

The first engagements are described in the official telegrams from the German army head-quarters.
"August 11th. Enemies' troops, apparently the 7th French army corps and an infantry division
from the Belfort garrison, were driven out of a fortified position by Mülhausen. Our losses
were inconsiderable, those of the French heavy.

"August 12th. Our troops attacked a French brigade by Lagarde. The enemy suffered heavy losses
and was thrown back into the Paroy forest. We captured a flag, two batteries, four machine
guns and about seven hundred prisoners. A French general was among the killed.

"August 18th. The fight by Mülhausen was little more than a skirmish. One and a half enemy
corps had invaded Upper Alsace before our troops could be collected and placed on a war-footing.
In spite of their numerical inferiority they attacked the enemy without hesitation and hurled
him back in the direction of Belfort.

"Meanwhile an artillery contingent from Strasbourg has suffered a check. Two battalions with
cannon and machine guns advanced from Shirmeck on the 14th. They were attacked by hostile artillery
fire while passing through a narrow pass. The cannon, etc., were badly damaged and therefore
left. No doubt they were captured by the enemy.

"The incident is of no importance and will have no influence on our operations, but it should
serve as a warning to our soldiers against over-confidence and carelessness. The men mustered
again and reached the fortress in safety: they had lost their guns but not their courage. Whether
treachery on the part of the inhabitants had any part in the affair has not yet been ascertained.

"August 22nd. Our troops are in pursuit of the French army defeated between Metz and the Vosges.
The enemies' retreat became a flight. Up till now more than ten thousand prisoners have been
taken and at least fifty cannon captured. The French had eight army corps in the field.

"August 24th. Yesterday the German Crown Prince, advancing on both sides of Longwy, achieved
a victory over the opposing forces and hurled them back.

"The troops under the leadership of the Bavarian Crown Prince have also been victorious and
crossed the line Lunéville-Blamont-Tirey. To-day the 21st army corps occupied Lunéville.

"The pursuit has brought rich booty. Besides numerous prisoners and standards the left wing
of the Vosges army has already captured 150 cannon.

"To-day the German Crown Prince's army has continued the pursuit beyond Longwy.

"The army under Duke Albrecht of Württemberg has advanced on both sides of Neufchâteau and
completely defeated the French army which had crossed the Semois. Numerous cannon, standards
and prisoners--among the latter several generals--were captured.

"West of the Meuse our troops are advancing on Maubeuge. An English cavalry brigade which appeared
on their front was defeated.

"August 27th. Nine days after the conclusion of our concentration the armies in the West have
gained victory after victory and penetrated the enemy's territory from Cambrai to the Southern
Vosges. At all points the enemy has been driven out of his positions and is now in full retreat.

"It is not yet possible to estimate, even approximately, his losses in killed, prisoners and
booty; the explanation for this is the enormous extent of the battlefields, broken by thick
forests and mountainous country.

"General von Kluck's army defeated the English at Maubeuge and to-day has attacked them in
an encircling move south-west of that place.

"After several days' fighting about eight army corps of French and Belgian troops between the
Sambre, Namur and the Meuse were completely defeated by the German armies under Generals von
Bülow and von Hausen.

"Namur has fallen after two days' cannonade. The attack on Maubeuge has commenced. Duke Albrecht's
army pursued the defeated enemy over the Semois and has now crossed the Meuse.

"On the other side of Longwy the German Crown Prince has captured a fortified enemy position,
and thrown back a heavy attack from the direction of Verdun. His army is advancing towards
the Meuse. Longwy has fallen.

"New hostile forces from Nancy attacked the Bavarian Crown Prince's army during its pursuit
of the French army before it. The attack failed.

"General von Heeringen's army is pursuing the enemy in the Vosges, and driving him southwards.
Alsace has been cleared of enemy forces.

"Up till the present the lines of communication have been guarded by the various armies; now
the troops left behind for that purpose are urgently required for our further advance. Hence
His Majesty has ordered the mobilization of the Landsturm.

"The Landsturm will be employed in protecting the lines of communication and for the occupation
of Belgium. This land which now comes under German administration will be utilized for supplying
all kinds of necessities for our armies, in order that Germany may be spared as much as possible."

During the first month of hostilities on the Western front, the Germans claimed that their
captures amounted to 233 pieces of heavy artillery, 116 field guns, 79 machine guns, 166 wagons
and 12,934 prisoners. On September 8th General Quartermaster von Stein announced: "Maubeuge
capitulated yesterday; 40,000 prisoners of war, including four generals, 400 cannon and immense
quantities of war materials fell into our hands."

A German war correspondent, who was present at the fall of Maubeuge, wrote:[166] "The march
out of the prisoners began on the same day at 2.30 p.m. and lasted over six hours. They were
conducted to trains and despatched to Germany. Some of the infantry made a good impression,
while the pioneers and artillery can only be classed as passable.

[Footnote 166: Heinrich Binder: "Mit dem Hauptquartier nach Westen," p. 96.]

"To the great disappointment of our troops there were only a hundred and twenty English among
the prisoners who had been cut off from the main army; young fellows about eighteen to twenty
years of age. When marching out these English youths were so stupid as to offer the hand to
their German victors in token of the gentlemanlike manner in which they accepted defeat. In
accordance with Albion's ancient boxing custom, they desired to show the absence of any bitter
feeling by a handshake; just as one does after a football match.

"Our men returned a few cuffs for this warlike behaviour, whereupon the English--richer in
experience--drew back astonished at German unfriendliness."

Germany's rush for Paris reached as far as the Marne; they claim that patrols penetrated to
within seven kilometres of the French capital. The report announcing the turn of the tide is
worthy of quotation.

"Chief Headquarters, September 10th. Our army in their pursuit of the enemy in the direction
east of Paris had passed beyond the Marne. There they were attacked by superior forces between
Meaux and Montmirail. In two days' heavy fighting they have kept the enemy back and even made
progress.

"When the approach of new, stronger hostile forces was announced our wing was withdrawn; the
enemy made no attempt at pursuit. Up till now the booty captured in this battle includes fifty
cannon and some thousands of prisoners.

"West of Verdun the army is engaged in an advancing battle. In Lorraine and the Vosges district
the situation is unchanged."

This seems to be all that the German nation has heard from official sources of the German defeat
on the Marne and the hurried retreat to the Aisne. Almost every report issued by the German
headquarters during the succeeding three weeks informed the world that a "decision had not
yet fallen."

Evidently the nation awaited and hoped for a decision which would leave Paris at the mercy
of the invading army. They are still awaiting that decision, but whether the waiting is seasoned
by hope cannot easily be determined.

A soldier present at the battle of the Marne has chronicled his experiences.[167] "We passed
over long, undulating hills and valleys, and towards 1 p.m. obtained our first glimpse down
the beautiful vale of the Marne. Standing on the heights of Château Thierry, we beheld the
town nestling on both sides of the river in the valley below.

[Footnote 167: H. Knutz: "Mit den Königin-Fusilieren durch Belgien und Frankreich,", p. 49 et seq.]

"Then we entered the town and saw on all sides the tokens of street fighting. All the windows
were smashed by shell fire; some houses had been entirely gutted. Dead Frenchmen lay around
in heaps, some corpses so mutilated by shrapnel as to appear hardly human. With a shudder we
turned our eyes from this horrible scene.

"Crossing the Marne by a sand-stone bridge, we climbed the opposing heights under a burning
sun. At the top we deployed, but for that day our artillery sufficed to drive the enemy in
headlong flight to the south; the night we spent under the open sky.

"Sunday, September 6th. Before breakfast we intended to bathe in a stream, when our dreams
of a rest-day were dispelled by an order to hold ourselves ready for the march. 'The 17th division
is under heavy rifle fire and the 18th must advance to their support.' Meanwhile, the chicken
soup was almost ready, but the order 'form ranks' resounded, and with empty stomachs we marched
through Neuvy up a hill and dug ourselves in behind a wood.

"The thunder of the enemies' artillery is terrible; shrapnel is bursting on our left. Captain
von Liliencron discusses the situation with the major and then turns to us. 'Our regiment attacks!
go for the dogs, children!' he exclaims with gleaming eyes.

"Next we advance round the wood and lie down behind a hedge; axes are held in readiness to
hack a way through the latter. Five steps from me a machine gun hammers away at full speed;
it is now impossible to hear commands, so they are roared from man to man--it could not be
termed shouting. 'Ambulance to the right!' somebody is severely wounded, but the ambulance
men have more than they can do on the left.

"The hell-music is at its loudest; shrapnel is bursting in the wood behind us; suddenly there
is an awful explosion half a dozen yards away; I hear the screams of my comrades, then we rush
forwards. The rush across the field was awful--flank fire from the right. Here and there a
comrade bites the grass.

"At last I throw myself down, but there is no cover; the wounded crouch there too. None of
my company are there; it seems that the two last shells have played havoc with them. The enemies'
(French) main position is nearly a mile away in a forest.

"Up the next slope our dead lie thick around, and here too a deadly bullet had found the breast
of our heroic captain. But in the strip of forest French and Turko bodies are still thicker.
The cat-like Turkos have climbed into the trees and are shot down like crows. A maddening infantry
and artillery fire greets us as we reach the top. Every ten to twenty yards shells strike,
and shrapnel bursts, filling the air with earth, dust, smoke and smell.

"Forward! till almost exhausted I throw myself down again; a hundred to a hundred and fifty
Fusiliers form a firing-line. Columns of infantry pour a murderous fire on to us from the forest.
It cannot go on thus; one after the other is wounded or killed. We have advanced nearly eight
hundred yards over open ground. On the right there is a small thicket of reeds. Some of the
company have already sought shelter there, and I make a rush there with the same hope.

"'For heaven's sake, lie down, corporal,' screamed a man as I came up. In fact, the reeds afford
no cover whatever. Wounded and dead lie there and bullets keep hitting them. In front of me
lay a man from the fourth company; a bullet had entered his chest and passed out of his back;
the blood was oozing out of a wound about the size of a shilling. The horror was too much for
me, and I crept to the other end of the strip.

"There I found everything far worse, but I cannot describe the terrors which I saw. One poor
fellow begs for a drop of water; there is just another draught in my bottle. With grateful
eyes he hands it back to me, and in the same moment I feel a stinging pain in the shoulder.
My arm is numbed and helpless; hardly one of us who is not wounded.

"We can offer no resistance to the enemy; but the awful way back! At last the run back over
eight hundred yards of open field begins. Now and again a comrade sinks to the ground, never
to rise again. My breath is nearly gone; one last effort, and in truth I have escaped from
the hail of bullets."

It is remarkable and noteworthy that German writers charge the French armies with looting and
destruction in their own country. Probably this is merely a device to get rid of unpleasant
accusations raised against the German army. Furthermore, the most reckless charges of uncleanliness
are made. In commenting on the lot of the Landsturm troops quartered in the villages of Northern
France, one author[168] writes: "The Landsturm men pass their time as best they can in these
holes, whose most conspicuous quality is their filth."

[Footnote 168: Erich Köhrer: "Zwischen Aisne und Argonnen" ("Between the Aisne and the Argonnes"),
p. 25.]

The same author gives his impressions of a visit to Sedan. "Only one house has been completely
and another partly destroyed, otherwise appearances are peaceful, and as far as possible, life
goes on as usual. Here, too, many of the inhabitants have left their homes and fled. The stupidity
of this flight becomes evident at every step. In numerous small hotels whose proprietors have
remained, one sees German soldiers buying bottles of splendid Burgundy wine at a shilling a bottle.

"But in another hotel whose proprietor had fled, is it a matter for surprise that the men caroused
on discovering a cellar containing three thousand bottles of wine? On the route I have myself
purchased some of the oldest and best wines from our men at a price of three cigars a bottle,
and the recollection of them belongs to the pleasantest memories of my sojourn at the front.

"Certainly the owner of Château Frenois, situated a few minutes' walk from the town, will be
more unpleasantly surprised on his return than the hotel proprietor. In his home, French marauders
and plunderers have destroyed and devastated the entire contents. It is impossible to comprehend
the senselessness of this conduct, for which no reasons of military necessity can be advanced.

"Ancient family pictures which could not be taken out of their frames have been ruined by bayonet
stabs, and from the shape of the cuts they were certainly the work of French bayonets. Even
the library, which contained a valuable collection of old prints, had been robbed.

"Not far from this scene of desolation stands Château Bellevue, where King William met Napoleon
in 1870. There, too, the traces of French plunderers are painfully evident; it was left to
the 'Hun-Kaiser' to save this historic spot from complete annihilation. In September Wilhelm
II. visited the château and seeing the signs of rapacity, ordered the place to be strictly
guarded to prevent further desecration."[169]

[Footnote 169: Ibid., pp. 22-3.]

It did not occur to Herr Köhrer to connect the carousals with the plundering; in one sentence
he admits that French soldiers respected the wine-cellars and in the next accuses them of stealing
books, etc. Every German writer, in describing the German advance, comments on the immense
number of haversacks, weapons and equipment thrown away by the French in their "wild flight."
Yet they desire their readers to believe that the same soldiers had time to rob and destroy,
indeed, carry their plunder with them!

Since September no French troops have been in the district, yet the Kaiser found it necessary
to place guards round Château Bellevue. Is it not more reasonable to assume that the precaution
was taken against the predatory instincts of his own soldiery, who, admittedly, are in occupation
of the province?

Herr Köhrer finds it almost beneath his dignity to reply to charges of barbarism and Hunnism;
yet he devotes several pages to the art of white-washing. "The inhabitants who remained in
their homes, and those who have returned since the flight--unfortunately it is only a small
part of the entirety--have recognized long ago that the German soldier is not a barbarian.
The terrible distress which prevails among the French is often enough relieved by the generosity
of the German troops. Throngs of women and children from the filthy villages of the Argonne
and the Ardennes gather round our field-kitchens and regularly receive the remains of the meals;
while many a German Landsturm man, recollecting his own wife and children, fills the mouths
of dirty French children instead of completely satisfying his own hunger."[170]

[Footnote 170: Ibid., p. 34. Herr Köhrer has evidently never visited many Bavarian villages:
otherwise he would be more careful with his adjectives when describing the villages of France.--Author.]

No one disputes the presence of kindly Germans in the Kaiser's armies, and it is pleasing to
read about these acts of generosity in relieving distress which is entirely the result of Germany's
guilt. But the point which all German writers miss is the explanation of positive evidence
of brutal deeds. Their kindly incidents and proofs of German chivalry are all of a negative
character, and do not overthrow one jot or tittle of the opposing positive evidence.

Iron crosses have fallen in thick showers on the German armies; during the month of July, 1915,
no fewer than 3,400 of these decorations were awarded to the Bavarian army alone. Still, as
far back as November of last year, Herr Köhrer wrote: "In the villages on the slopes of the
Argonnes and on the banks of the Aisne, nearly every second soldier is wearing an iron cross.
One has the certain conviction that it is not an army of fifty or sixty thousand, but a nation
of heroes which occupies the plains of France and fights for us.

"They are all heroes at the front, including those who do not wear the outward symbol of personal
bravery. When we see how our men live, it would seem that the earliest days of the human race
have returned. They have become cave-dwellers, troglodytes in the worst form. Our heavy batteries
are placed on the slopes of the Argonne forest, while the light field-howitzers occupy the summits.

"Near them holes have been dug in the wet clay or chalk, and meagrely lined with straw; these
dark, damp caves are the dwellings of our officers and men for weeks at a time, while the shells
from the enemy's artillery whiz and burst around. In them the differences of rank disappear,
except that one sometimes sees a couple of chairs provided for officers. When duty does not
call them to the guns, they are free to remain in the open exposed to a sudden and awful death,
or to spend their time in the womb of mother earth. Yet one never hears a word of complaint;
rather the hardships of this strange existence are borne with rough good-humour."[171]

[Footnote 171: Ibid., p. 28.]

Contrary to the expectations of other nations, the war seems only to have increased the popularity
of the military Moloch. Writers who look upon the Allies as deliverers who will free Germany
from the degrading slavery imposed upon that country, will be disappointed to learn that Germans
worship the bunte Rock (gay uniform) more than ever.

At a meeting of the National Liberal leaders held in Dortmund, July, 1915, a resolution was
passed calling upon the Government to pursue a still greater naval and army programme. Both
the Liberals and Conservatives have adopted the motto: Deutsche Machtpolitik frei von Sentimentalität
(A German policy of might free from sentimentalism).

"This war of the nations, which has overthrown so many accepted standards and created new ones,
will also give a new basis to the privileged position of German officers in public life. Millions
of German men have seen how in this war the German lieutenant has again merited his special
position for some generations to come. I wish to emphasize this point over and over again.

"During the first two months of hostilities nearly forty thousand iron crosses were awarded.
To many of those at home this appeared to be overdoing it, like the many exaggerations in the
domain of orders and honours with which we have become familiar during the last decade.[172]
As a matter of fact, the number of crosses given was too small.

[Footnote 172: Vide "The Soul of Germany," Chapter XIII.]

"Not forty thousand heroes are at the front, but a nation of heroes. In emphasizing why the
work of our officers is so splendid I must lay down these premises. The bravery and joyous
spirit of self-sacrifice in our men is above all praise, but the officers have higher and more
responsible duties. They have not only to set an example of physical courage, but they must
possess the mental capacity to lead and spur on their men--and that under conditions so hard
and rude that the man at home has no conception of them.

"I have been in the trenches on the slopes of the Argonnes, where officers lie side by side
with the men in clay and chalk, unwashed and filthy cut off from the outside world, exposed
to continuous fire and thrown entirely upon themselves. I have seen them in the artillery positions
on the Aisne, in the mud-caves of the heavy batteries, where they sit in the dark on empty
packing-cases, listening to the music of exploding shells and whistling bullets. And everywhere
I received the same impression: the men are enthusiastic in praise of their leaders.

"Many a one who has never voted for any other party than the Social Democrats has exclaimed:
'Lieutenants! Donnerwetter, yes! Hats off to them!' For the lieutenant is not only the first
in the fight, but he is the soul of the company; untiring in his efforts to keep up their spirits
in the intervals between the fighting.

"And when we again witness the scenes which often disgusted us before the war--the monocled
young gentlemen in gay uniform, walking through the streets, nose in the air--when we see all
this again, and perhaps a bit of iron pinned on the breast, then we must remember that for
their life of danger and hardship in Argonnes clay, and Russian mud, no earthly compensation
can be too great.

"No nation can ever imitate our lieutenant, and in this war of masses and technical perfection
it is still the value of individual personality which will decide the issue. We may affirm
that this value stands very high in our army--both as regards officers and men.

"Only he who has seen for himself the burnt villages, devastated towns and desolate land of
France can comprehend the full meaning of the awful word Krieg (war). Mere words cannot express
what it means to Germans and Germany that the horrors of war have been carried almost alone
into the enemy's territory.

"But then a spirit of irresistible ardour goes through the ranks of our warriors. From every
eye, in every word, burns the deepest, most unbounded faith in victory. In the trenches, batteries
and hospitals there is no doubt, no fear. One great thought hovers victoriously above all hardships,
distress and suffering: Germany to the front in the world!

