'Then I'm ruined!' said Lopes, passionately, 'and much you care, though you and I have been
chums together ever since we first entered the school!' and in his despair he clenched his
fist and seemed almost as if he were going to strike his friend.

Barton put up his arm to shield himself as he said in a low voice, 'Look out, Lopes; don't
shout so! we don't want all the kids to know about this matter;' for just at this moment a
trio of merry lads came round the corner of the Fives Court, whooping and shouting at the top
of their voices. 'Come to the garden; we shall be quiet there, and can talk over matters, and
see what can be done;' and Barton closed the book he had been studying and led the way to the
nut-walk which was sacred to the Sixth Form.

Lopes followed gloomily. 'It's no good talking, if you won't help me,' he said as they reached
the quiet path.

'But I want to help you,' said Barton, 'and I think I see a way out of this scrape.'

'Oh, do you?' said Lopes eagerly. 'If only I could pay off this man and have done with him,
I would never bet again. I see now what a silly fool I have been. Tell me your plan, Barton.'

'Go and tell Mr. Arundel all about it. I don't believe bookmakers have any right to tempt boys
like us to lay money on horses, and---- '

'Mr. Arundel! one of the masters! He would go and tell the Head straight off, and I should
be expelled,' said Lopes bitterly. 'I thought you had some better plan than that!'

'Mr. Arundel is a gentleman,' said Barton quietly, 'and what you tell him in confidence will
go no further, you may be sure of that; I believe he could help you.'

'I wish I could think so,' sighed Lopes. 'I can think of nothing, and settle to nothing with
this debt on my mind.'

'Go to Mr. Arundel,' urged Barton. 'I know you will not regret it.'

'Well, I will,' at last said Lopes. 'I will go at once before my courage fails me.'

'I will come with you,' said Barton, taking his friend's arm.

'You are a good chap, Barton; you don't desert a fellow when he is down!' said Lopes gratefully.
'I wish I had taken your advice at first, and thrown the bookmaker's letter on the fire.'

       *       *       *       *       *

There is no space here to tell of all Mr. Arundel said and did to help Lopes out of his ugly
betting scrape. Though the master did not fail to show Lopes how wrongly he had acted, he had
a real pity for the boy who had been so tempted by the bookmaker's letter, and he determined
to let that gentleman know what he knew of him.

So a very strong letter was sent off by Mr. Arundel, telling the man that unless he released
the schoolboy from all his so-called debts, he would have him publicly shown up and prosecuted
for dealing with a minor.

By return of post came the desired release from the bookmaker, and Mr. Arundel handed it to
the boy with a pleasant smile. 'You are free, Lopes; you will hear no more of this man, I can
promise you, and you must promise me never to bet again.'

'I will--I do, sir! and thank you most deeply,' said Lopes earnestly. If this had reached my
father's ears, it would have broken his heart. Oh, thank you so very much! You do not know
how miserable I have been.'

Lopes kept his word, and that bet was his last one. He had learnt that honesty and straightforwardness
get rid of any difficulties.

NO HARM MEANT.

  Two puppies with good-natured hearts, but clumsy little toes,
  Were feeling rather sleepy, so they settled for a doze;
  But underneath the very ledge on which they chanced to be,
  A large and stately pussy cat was basking dreamily.

  A short half-hour had hardly passed, when one pup made a stir,
  And stretching out a lazy paw, just touched the tabby's fur;
  'Twas nothing but an accident, yet, oh! the angry wail!
  The flashing in the tabby's eye, the lashing of her tail!

  'Who's that that dares to serve me so?' she cried with arching back.
  'I'll teach you puppies how to make an unprovoked attack!'
  One puppy started to his feet with terror in his eyes,
  The other said, as soon as pluck had overcome surprise:

  'I'm really very sorry, ma'am, but honestly declare
  I hadn't any notion that a pussy cat was there.'
  But just like those who look for wrong in every one they see,
  She left the spot, nor deigned to take the pup's apology.

HOW MANY?

The Spartan King Agis was asked shortly before a battle: 'How many soldiers can you bring into
the field?'

'As many as will suffice to rout the enemy!' was the Spartan's curt reply.

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

By MRS. MULLIKEN.

CHAPTER I.

'You don't think they will come to any harm?' said the young governess.

When Miss Leigh spoke in that plaintive tone, Lady Coke knew that she was tired out with the
noise and wilfulness of her young pupils, and that a 'row,' as Alan called it, was likely to
follow.

'No,' said Lady Coke, smiling; 'they are accustomed to the management of the boat, and Thomas
shall go with them. He knows the coast well, and is a first-class boatman.'

Her nephew, Colonel De Bohun, laughed. 'He is A.1. at his oar, but very deficient as a gardener,'
he said. 'Your kindness in keeping him, my dear aunt, is a marvel to us all.'

'His mother is very poor,' returned Lady Coke, with a sigh. 'I wish he were a better son to
her. He is her great trouble, I fear.'

'And yet you are not afraid to trust the children with him,' murmured Miss Leigh, in surprise.

'He is quite to be trusted on the water!' replied Lady Coke, with some decision. 'Children
must have something to do to carry off their extra energy, and---- '

'"A boy is the most difficult to manage of all wild beasts!" So, at all events, an old writer
tells us,' said the Colonel, with a smile. 'I am afraid, Miss Leigh, you find the girls are
not much better. You ought to be glad to get rid of our noisy pack of youngsters for an hour
or two.'

'Oh, if you are not afraid,' began Miss Leigh, in an injured tone.

She considered that her anxiety on behalf of her pupils was not being properly appreciated,
and felt hurt. But further conversation was cut short by the boisterous rush of four children
round the corner of the shubbery.

'Thomas can come!' shouted the eldest boy, who was racing ahead of the noisy party. 'I just
managed to catch him as he was sneaking off up the Wilderness.'

'What?' exclaimed the Colonel, surprised.

'Sneaking off!' repeated Lady Coke. 'Alan, what a way of speaking! What do you mean?'

'He ran away as soon as he saw we wanted him,' said Georgie. 'He tried to hide in the bushes,
and I am sure he did not want us to see him.'

'He was sneaking off. We could all tell that,' added Marjorie, a tall, handsome girl of thirteen.
'But what does it matter? If he can come with us now, it is no business of ours what he was doing.'

Meanwhile, Estelle, a small, slender child of eleven, who looked much younger, was clinging
to her great-aunt's hand, and murmuring continually, 'Are we going, Auntie? I do so want to
go on the sea!'

'Here is Thomas,' said Colonel De Bohun, as the young gardener came towards the group, with
a sulky expression on his red face.

'I want you to take the children out in the boat, Thomas,' said Lady Coke. 'I hope you are
not particularly busy this afternoon?'

'I am at your service, my lady,' he replied. 'I will get---- '

'I will help you!' cried Alan, eagerly. 'We will have the boat ready in a jiffy.'

With an awkward touch of his cap, Thomas moved off, his sulky face revealing the wrath which
was surging within. But no one was looking at him, nor was a second thought given to Alan's
laughing assertion that he had been seen 'sneaking off up the Wilderness.' The wild joy of
the children, and the many cautions as to their behaviour when on the water, which their elders
impressed upon them, together with the preparations for the trip, made them all forget Thomas's
queer manner. They were destined, however, before long, to remember it for many a day.

Colonel De Bohun made Alan fetch some cushions, that the boat might be made more comfortable
for his cousin and his sister, and Lady Coke, drawing Marjorie aside, begged her to look well
after Estelle, who was not so used to boating as she and her brothers were, and might endanger
the safety of the young party by some sudden movement. Marjorie was to remember how easily
a boat was upset.

Estelle had never till now lived near the sea-coast. Her life had been spent in the Highlands
of Scotland, at her father's old castle, Lynwood Keep. Her uncle, Colonel De Bohun, had often
begged the Earl of Lynwood to allow her to spend her holidays with her cousins, but the Earl
could not bear to part with his little girl even for so short a time. Instead, he gladly welcomed
the little cousins to Lynwood Keep, where Estelle was allowed to do everything she desired
for their pleasure and entertainment.

The great sorrow of his life, the loss of his young wife when Estelle was five years old, had
changed him completely. From being a cheerful, open-hearted, open-handed man, he had become
silent and reserved, seldom seeing anybody, and keeping aloof even from his brother's children
when they paid their yearly visit to Estelle, and the delights of her Highland home.

To only one person did he unbend. Estelle had become all in all to him. He felt he could not
do enough for her. He must be both father and mother to the little motherless child, and to
him she must look for everything. Except when she was at her lessons, he loved to have her
with him, and wherever he went, on visits to his tenants, or walking over the property, she
was always his little shadow, as well known and beloved as he. In the evenings they would sit
together, talking over their uneventful day, or recalling that memory of wife and mother which
was so sacred and so tender to them both, and which Lord Lynwood desired should never fade
from his little girl's mind.

Such a life was by no means a healthy one for Estelle, as Lord Lynwood's aunt, Lady Coke, discovered
during her visits to Lynwood Keep. She noticed how sensitive and excitable Estelle was growing.
If Lord Lynwood came down in the morning looking worn and depressed, Estelle would watch him
for a few minutes, and unconsciously put on the same look. Slipping her hand into his, and
gazing up into his face with sympathetic eyes, she only increased his gloom; Lady Coke saw
it, and felt sorry for them both. Any other child would have been spoilt by the indulgence
which gratified every wish, but Estelle's gentleness and her great desire to be to her father
all that her mother had been, prevented her from being either selfish or naughty.

She was not a strong child, and the accounts of her health and spirits which her governess,
Mademoiselle Vadevant, gave Lady Coke, did not satisfy that dear old lady. She did not like
to hear that Estelle was apt to cry on the slightest excuse; that she had no energy, no appetite;
that she was listless in her play, never happy except when with her father, and soon grew tired
with the least exertion. Every breath of wind appeared to give her a cold, and she slept badly.
Lady Coke said little, but she thought deeply about all she heard and saw.

A few weeks after this visit of Lady Coke's, Lord Lynwood, to his great surprise, received
a letter from a very influential quarter; his past services to the State were spoken of in
the most flattering manner, and he was urged to accept office again. An appointment to the
Court of Austria was offered to him in terms which made refusal almost impossible. Lady Coke
was delighted when he showed her the letter, and warmly begged him not to throw away what had
been offered to him in such a kindly spirit. She did not betray her own handiwork in the offer.

'It is the best thing that could have happened!' she exclaimed, smiling and pleased. 'The very
best thing for you and Estelle.'

'Best for the child?' he repeated, blankly.

'Yes, even for Estelle,' replied his aunt, with decision. 'She ought to have many things which
you cannot give her, with all your love; her mother would have understood. She must live in
a warmer, sunnier climate. She ought to have the companionship of other children; some one
to play with, and some one to work with as well as play.'

'Ah!' said the Earl, feeling as if a trap had been sprung upon him. 'And where is she to have
all this?'

'Let her live with me,' replied Lady Coke, smiling. 'Her cousins are quite close, and she will
be with them every day. I am sure you will soon see how greatly this plan will benefit the
dear child, and will not grudge what will do her good.'

'I should not mind so much leaving her if she were with you,' admitted the Earl, after a long
pause. 'But are you sure it will not be too much for you, dear aunt, to have so young a child
with you always? Will she not tire you?'

'You little know how young I am still,' she interrupted with a merry laugh. 'I love the child,
and you could not give me greater pleasure than by leaving her with me.'

The more the plan was talked over the more pleasant and possible it became, and when the Earl
saw Estelle's delight on hearing that she was to share in Marjorie's lessons, and have her
cousins to play with every day, he became reconciled to the parting with his little girl.

But when the day came for saying good-bye he almost repented. Estelle cried and clung to him
till Lady Coke and Mademoiselle had great trouble in getting her away. They hurried her up
to her room, where Mademoiselle gave her brilliant descriptions of how busy her father was
going to be, and how happy she would be in his absence with her cousins. She would grow up
to be a comfort to him, and must do all she could that he might not be disappointed in her
on his return.

Then came the bustle of preparation for her own journey, and the excitement of her arrival
at the Moat House. All three cousins were there to greet her, and she was welcomed with so
many kisses, and such a chorus of delight, that for the moment everything else was forgotten.
Each of the cousins had his or her favourite pet, or particular spot in the garden to show
her, and Estelle felt herself at home at once.

Lady Coke's plan had worked well. The joy of the children, their perfect contentment when together,
and Estelle's improved health and spirits were proof enough. The gardens of the two houses,
which joined, the woods, the rocks, the sea, were more than enough to keep them all happy and
occupied; and to Estelle was added the keen pleasure of an only child to whom everything was new.

(Continued on page 10.)

THE GIANT OF THE TREASURE CAVES.

(Continued from page 7.)

An afternoon to be spent in rowing along that grand coast, in scrambling among the rocks, or
visiting the numerous caves, was to Estelle the height of delight. As the boat pushed off from
the sandy beach, and Thomas swung himself into the stern, she gazed about her in silent but
deep enjoyment.

The sea was as smooth as glass. The sun shone clear and hot. The white sails of distant boats
dotted the horizon. Beautiful as was the sea itself, however, her whole attention was given
to the frowning cliffs which towered up in great headlands and boulders. Hovering about every
ledge, or over the surface of the water, were white-winged gulls, diving or preening their
feathers in the warm sunshine. Masses of jagged rocks stretched far out from land, making a
wide sweep necessary in order to get round the Point. Steering was Marjorie's special duty,
and long practice had made her very skilful in avoiding dangerous spots, and tacking against
cross-currents. She it was, too, who begged Estelle not to jump about in the boat, and so imperil
the lives of the party by her delight in the new world about her.

'Ripping, isn't it?' said Alan, joining in Marjorie's laugh at their little cousin's restlessness.

'Oh, it's lovely!' cried Estelle, eagerly. 'But, look, Alan! What is that dark patch in the cliff?'

'Oh, that isn't anything!' he returned. 'You will soon see a far bigger hole in the cliff than
that. There are heaps of caves about here; some quite shallow like that one; others very deep
and high and dark, and some---- '

'Some to which we have never been able to find the way,' interrupted Marjorie, as Alan hesitated.
'I know there used to be---- '

'Thomas,' said Alan, also interrupting, as he looked over his shoulder at the man behind him,
'do you know the way from the cliff into the Smuggler's Bay?'

'What makes you think that, sir?' asked the man, sullenly.

'You were a fisherman once, weren't you? At all events you went out with the fishing fleet
as a boy,' said Marjorie, 'and Aunt Betty says you know the coast better than anybody.'

'And did you smuggle once?' demanded Georgie, looking up from the preparation of a bent pin
for some attempts at fishing.

Thomas gave a hoarse laugh. 'What I know, I know,' he said, mysteriously. 'It isn't fit, and
my lady would not like it, if I was to tell you all I know.'

'That means you know a great deal,' exclaimed Alan, triumphantly. 'Now I am sure of what I
only guessed before. There is a way down, and I will find it out somehow without you telling
me a word.'

Thomas's face reddened with anger at his meaning being caught up so quickly, but before he
could reply Marjorie broke in.

'Tell me when to turn in,' she said, as they left the shelter of the headland, and the cool
briny air fanned their cheeks.

The water was rougher, and the little boat danced upon the swell as they rounded the outlying
rocks. Estelle was on the look-out for dangers, but Marjorie understood her business too well,
and they glided along without even grazing a single jagged point. The gulls, startled from
their perch on the heights by the approach of the boat, rose, flapping and shrieking. It seemed
as if hundreds were circling about the rocks, only to settle down again as the little skiff
drew away from them into the bay.

Estelle's quick eyes saw the great gap in the cliffs as they came nearer to the shore. It was
forty or fifty feet above the beach, and from it a small stream of water flowed in a thin shower.

'That is the place Alan spoke of,' said Marjorie, as her cousin pointed to it. 'There are all
sorts of stories about it, but I don't believe anybody knows much. Some say there used to be
a passage to it from our old ruined summer-house, and smugglers were hauled up, and their treasure
too, and nobody could find out what became of them.'

'It seems a tremendous height,' said Estelle, in a tone of awe.

'It was only used at high tide,' said Alan. 'There were the caves down below when the water
was out. But here we are,' he added, as Thomas ran the boat up the beach. 'Come along, and
I will show you the only cave worth looking at.'

The children were out of the boat in a moment, Georgie alone remaining behind the others to
'lend a hand,' as he called it, though hindering rather than helping Thomas to pull the boat
out of reach of the tide.

'I can't think, Alan,' said Marjorie, when they had gone some way up the beach, 'how you could
give yourself away to Thomas so.'

'What do you mean?' asked Alan, flushing, and inclined to be angry.

'About the path, of course. If there is one, and if he really believes that you intend to hunt
for it, he is as likely as not to put all the hindrances he can in your way.'

'Why should he?'

'I don't know, but there was something in his face that made me think he had some secret, and
a reason for keeping it. Let us make our own discoveries without---- '

'You will have just about a hour, perhaps a little less, before we must start back again, Miss,'
said the voice of Thomas behind them.

Alan and Marjorie turned quickly. How much had he heard? He had evidently followed them, and
Alan could not believe that it was merely to give a piece of quite unnecessary information,
for they were within calling distance anywhere in that small bay.

'Are you not going to stay with us all the time?' he exclaimed, in a tone that showed a little
annoyance.

'No, sir,' returned the man, with a wily smile, which somehow increased Alan's anger. 'I thought
I would sit inside the cave a bit. It's hot in the sun.'

It sounded reasonable enough, and there was nothing to say against his doing as he wished,
but both the elder children somehow distrusted him.

They were at the entrance of the cave by this time, and their attention was drawn away from
the gardener by Estelle's fear of the gloomy shadows which loomed upon them as they entered.
There was not much to see, and before long they came upon masses of broken rock and stones,
up which Alan insisted on dragging Estelle, while Marjorie helped Georgie. At the top the cave
narrowed into little more than a moderate-sized passage, but here it was so dark that progress
was not easy. Estelle became frightened, and Georgie begged for a return to daylight. But this
did not suit Alan at all.

'Stop a bit,' he said, striking a match. 'You sit here, you two, while Marjorie and I light up.'

He brought a piece of magnesium wire out of his pocket, and for a few moments the dazzling
flame lighted up the cave till every corner stood out clear. Georgie was delighted, and Estelle
wished it could always remain alight. Marjorie laughed at the remark, but the laugh died away
in her throat the next moment; as the second bit of wire was flaming she distinctly saw a man's
figure disappear behind a rock. A sudden terror seized upon her, making her feel she could
not remain a moment longer in the cave. She had not seen enough to be certain whether it was
Thomas or not, and the uncertainty startled her.

'We've been here long enough, Alan,' she said, hurriedly.

'Do try and give us some light while I get Georgie down the slope. Can you manage for yourself,
Estelle?'

'What's the matter?' whispered Alan, as they reached the entrance to the cave once more. 'You
know I have been round every bit of those rocks at the end of the cave,' he went on, after
hearing all that Marjorie had to tell him, 'and not an opening did I find. I am sure Father
had every passage closed, and unless Thomas has discovered where they were, and reopened them,
what you saw must have been fancy. What could Thomas want here? There is no smuggling now.'

Meantime, Estelle and Georgie, glad to get once more into the daylight, were racing each other
over the sands and into the numerous clefts in the cliffs, with shouts of laughter. Suddenly
Estelle stopped, panting.

'It tires me so to run,' she said, with a little laugh of shame at her weakness. 'Shall we
get the spades out of the boat and dig instead?'

Georgie readily agreed, and saying he would fetch them, set off down the slope. Estelle threw
herself down on the soft sand, intending to rest till Georgie returned. All was very quiet
and still in the bay; the gentle lapping of the waves as the tide rose was the only sound.
As she glanced round her at the gulls and then towards the cave, where Alan and Marjorie still
lingered, she became aware that the tide was coming in, and that Thomas was nowhere visible.
She was always timid, and a real terror seized her now. With a frightened glance to see how
near the boat was to the water, she sprang up and rushed over to where her cousins were standing.

'Alan! Marjorie!' she cried. 'See how high the sea is getting! Isn't it time to go back? Where
is Thomas?'

In another minute that question was exciting all the children. They called to him, they searched
the caves as well as it was possible for them to do, but Thomas was not to be found, nor was
there any answer to their shouts.

(Continued on page 22.)

A SEASONABLE ANSWER.

A seasonable answer was given by the minister Cyneas to the ambitious Pyrrhus, King of Epirus,
when that great conqueror began to speak of his designs (B.C. 280).

'Well,' said Cyneas, 'when thou has vanquished the Romans, what wilt thou then do?'

'I will then,' said Pyrrhus, 'sail over to Sicily.'

'And what wilt thou do when that is won?'

'Then we will subdue Africa.'

'Well, when that is effected, what wilt thou then do?' asked Cyneas.

'Why, then,' said Pyrrhus, 'we will sit down and spend the rest of our time merrily and contentedly.'

'And what hinders thee,' said Cyneas, 'that without all this labour and peril thou canst not
now do so beforehand?'

PEEPS INTO NATURE'S NURSERIES.

I.--THE LIFE-HISTORY OF THE COMMON FROG.

How is it that people as a rule have such a dislike for frogs? Many people, even those who
live in the country, credit them with the power of spitting poison, and even those who do not
share this belief, regard them as creatures to be shunned. Perhaps this short outline of the
life-history of these poor creatures, so unjustly 'sent to Coventry,' may gain for them at
least a favourable hearing. Frogs make most charming pets, and I am never without a few on
my study table. From their lives these facts are taken.

Let us begin from the very beginning--the hatching out of the eggs. Frogs' eggs and birds'
eggs are really not so unlike as they seem at first sight, for though the frog's eggs have
no shell, yet, just as in the bird's egg, there are two essential parts to be distinguished--the
formative material out of which the young frog grows and the yolk on which the growing animal
feeds. By the untrained eye nothing more can be seen in the frog's egg than a small black ball
enclosed within a clear jelly-like substance. At the time the egg is laid this outer jelly
is hardly noticeable, but it soon swells up, and thus forms a soft, elastic covering to the
growing frog, effectually protecting it from injury. This black ball, by the way, answers to
the yellow yolk of the hen's egg: it differs from the yellow yolk in that it is colourless
internally, and black externally. The black outside coat apparently serves to attract the heat
of the sun, and thereby to bring about the hatching process, which the hen does by the warmth
of her own body.

These eggs are furthermore remarkable in that they are laid, not one by one, as a hen lays,
but in thousands, and in water, forming an enormous speckled mass. Take a portion of such a
mass and watch it. Day by day you will see the black spot gradually assume a distinct shape
(fig. 1, A): a little later a head and tail can be made out.

In a few hours more little black buds grow out on each side of the head, and these soon become
branched. They are the future gills. At this time you will notice slight movements within this
glassy cradle; and soon after this the young frog, or tadpole, as we must call him now, escapes;
that is to say, as soon as he leaves his cradle he becomes a tadpole. At first he does nothing
but hang on to bits of weed, or the broken remains of the covering of the egg, by a sticky
substance formed by a special pair of suckers placed just behind the mouth, as shown in our
illustration (fig. 2).

Soon signs of life become apparent in the shape of a slow curving of the body from side to
side. In a very short time, however, these movements increase so rapidly that the tail can
hardly be seen, and at last, in one of these violent wriggles he finds himself actually swimming!
During all this time he has swallowed no food, but has lived on the remains of the egg within
him; swallowing, indeed, has been out of the question, for as yet his mouth is sealed! But
now, at last, the little jaws are unlocked, and he begins to eat ravenously, at first delicate
green weed, and later, flesh, when it is to be had. I give my tadpoles small pieces of beef,
but in the ditches where they swarm, animal matter is to be had in plenty as a rule.

The mouth at this time is a very different structure from that which is found in the adult
frog: it is fringed by a pair of broad fleshy lips armed with rows of tiny horny teeth--a curious
place for teeth; the mouth itself is furnished with a pair of teeth--also horny--resembling
the beak of a parrot.

During this time these tiny little creatures bear a really close resemblance to the young of
many fish. In both young fishes and tadpoles, for some time after leaving the egg, breathing
is done by means of very delicate branching gills, standing out on each side of the head. One
of these branches, highly magnified, is shown in fig. 3; at C (fig. 1) the gills are shown
in their natural position. If you can manage to place a tadpole at this stage under the microscope,
you will see the blood, in the shape of little oval discs, coursing through the blood-vessels
of these gills. These breathing organs, however, are a source of danger, for they are easily
injured, so that, in the tadpole, as in the fish, they are soon replaced by gills enclosed
within a little chamber on each side of the head. Breathing now takes place by drawing water
in at the mouth, passing it through the chambers and over the gills, and expelling it through
a small hole which opens in the form of a short tube on the left side of the neck (shown in
fig. 4), if a neck can be distinguished in an animal where the head passes insensibly into
the body! But yet another change in the breathing apparatus takes place. During the time that
the gills are being changed, a pair of lungs are being developed, and the first hint that they
are growing is given by the frequent journeys to the top of the water for the purpose of sucking
in air.

(Concluded on page 37.)

LONG TOM'S GRATITUDE.

'You are a silly, you are; fancy wasting a brand-new shilling on a circus kid!'

'Nonsense!' was the elder boy's answer; 'first you nearly get run over by dragging her away
from the horse's hoofs, and then you go and give her all your pocket-money--I've no patience
with you.'

Secretly, Dick Chilcote admired the plucky action, but he was too proud to say so. But Phil,
knowing nothing of this, looked very downcast.

The two lads were standing in the road which overlooked the meadow where 'Bagster's World-renowned
Circus' had put up its huge tent, the place having a fascination for them.

'Those sort of people,' went on Dick, who was a bit too fond of hearing his own voice, 'have
no gratitude.'

'Haven't they, young master?' said a voice in their ears.

It was Tom Venner--otherwise known as 'Long Tom, the Stilt-walker'--who spoke.

'It strikes me they have, only they never get a chance of being quits. Look here, youngster'--this
to Phil--'it was my little girl you saved, and one day, if ever I get a chance, I will show
you that Long Tom is not ungrateful.'

Phil grew rosy, and more nervous than ever.

'What's your name, I'd like to know?' went on the man.

'Phil Chilcote,' answered the little lad. 'And what's yours, please?'

'Tom Venner, at your service,' was the reply. 'And now I must be off; but I shan't forget you.'

Shortly after this, the dinner-hour being near, the two boys wended their way homewards.

       *       *       *       *       *

The night which followed this incident was exceptionally wild and stormy, and, for the first
time within memory of living man, the whole of the lower part of the village of Radwell was
flooded by the tide. The wild rush of waters had swept away the sea-wall as though it had been
a mere plaything, and widespread destruction was the result.

It was a terrible night for man and beast, and Tom Venner, as he drove his caravan along the
lonely road towards the adjoining town, found it a very difficult matter to make headway in
the teeth of the warring elements.

Presently the clouds cleared away from the face of the moon, and then it was that a strange
scene met the man's eyes. All the land to the right of him was one wide area of waters, upon
which boats were making their way towards a higher level of land. Curiosity prompted him to
drive nearer, and presently the sound of voices showed that one boat-load had reached dry land
in safety. By the time Tom Venner was on the spot, a second craft had also come in.

'You have got Phil with you, of course,' he heard a man say. It was Mr. Chilcote who spoke,
a strange ring of anxiety in his voice.

'No,' was the startled answer of a lady who was hushing a baby to sleep. 'Oh, Maurice, you
don't mean to say you left him behind!'

'What!' ejaculated the man, hoarsely. 'Nurse said that he was with you. What shall we do?'

Well might Mr. Chilcote's heart fail, for his home was flooded all round, and in danger of
collapsing altogether.

The mother of the little lad gave a cry of bitter distress, a cry which went to Tom's very
heart. 'My Phil! my little Phil!' was all she moaned.

'Do you mean to say it's little Phil Chilcote in danger?' shouted Tom, his mind reverting to
the only 'Phil' he knew.

'Yes,' was the reply from several voices.

'Then I will save him if mortal man can,' was the plucky response.

'But his window is out of reach, and the stairs are under water by this time,' said the poor
mother, despairingly.

Then a brilliant thought struck Tom, and he told it at once to Mr. Chilcote. The result was
that in a few moments Tom, with his stilts on either side of him, was being rowed by trusty
oarsmen, one of whom was Mr. Chilcote himself, to the Manor House.

'That's the window, my man,' said Mr. Chilcote, when they reached the house; 'do you think
you can manage it?'

'Aye, aye, sir,' was the reply. 'Don't you fear!'

But it was a more difficult task than even Tom Venner expected. However, his stilts were soon
in working order, and whilst the watchers held their breath for fear, the man accomplished
his task. Smashing a pane of glass, he roused the little sleeper, who, owing to the terrible
mistake of a well-nigh distraught maid, had been left alone in the Manor House.

A frightened cry came from poor Phil's lips at the sound of the breaking glass. In a few words,
however, the man calmed his fears, and explained what had happened. In another moment, little
Phil was out of bed, and the window was unfastened by his trembling fingers.

'Have you got a bit of cord handy?' asked Tom Venner of the child.

'Yes; nurse's box-cord is here,' was the reply; 'I use it for my reins.'

'Oh, well, that will do--give it me, quick.'

Tom steadied himself on his stilts as firmly as he could, and then came the difficult task
of bringing down the little lad. How he did it Tom could scarcely tell you himself, but certain
it is that a few minutes later Phil was safe in his father's arms.

       *       *       *       *       *

'I say, I am awfully sorry I talked all that rot about--about ingratitude, you know.' So said
Dick Chilcote, looking with shamed eyes into Tom Venner's face.

'All right, young master, don't bother your head about that,' was the reply; 'it was a little
mistake, that is all.'

Dick was too moved to answer, his ready speech having entirely failed him.

