VOL. IX.--No. 219.] SATURDAY, JANUARY 7. 1854. [Price Fourpence. Stamped Edition 5d.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

DO YOU BRUISE YOUR OATS YET? New Oat Crushers, 2l. 15s. 6d., ditto 4l. 5s. 6d.; Chaff Cutters,
1l. 7s. 6d., ditto 2l. 19s. 6d. Mangles, 2l. 10s. 6d.; Flour Mills, 4l. 10s. 6d.

MARY WEDLAKE & CO., 118. Fenchurch Street. Members are admitted without payment. Admission,
One Shilling. Catalogues Sixpence.

  ROGER FENTON, Hon. Sec.

4th Jan. 1854.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHYSIOGNOMY OF INSANITY.--A Series of Photographic Portraits from the Life,

By DR. HUGH W. DIAMOND, F.S.A.,

with brief Medical Notes. To be published in occasional Parts, small quarto.

S. HIGHLEY, 32. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Will be published on the 10th instant, price 4d. No. I. of the

LIVERPOOL PHOTOGRAPHIC JOURNAL. Conducted by the Members of the Liverpool Photographic Society.

Published by HENRY GREENWOOD, 16. Canning Place, Liverpool (by whom Advertisements will be
received) and may be had through all Booksellers.

       *       *       *       *       * {2}

NEW WORKS.

THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, No. CCI., JANUARY, 1854. 8vo., price 6s.

              CONTENTS:
  1. Lord John Russell's Memorials of Mr. Fox, and the Rockingham Papers.
  2. The Blind: their Works and Ways.
  3. Public Works in the Presidency of Madras.
  4. Ecclesiastical Economy.
  5. Education for the Rich and Poor.
  6. Thackeray's Works.
  7. The Machinery of Parliamentary Legislation.
  8. The Ottoman Empire.

LORD HOLLAND'S MEMOIRS OF THE WHIG PARTY. Edited by his Son, HENRY EDWARD LORD HOLLAND. Vol.
II. Post 8vo. Price 9s. 6d. Vols. V. and VI., post 8vo., price 21s.

LETTERS OF RACHEL LADY RUSSELL. A New Edition, including several unpublished Letters; together
with those edited by Miss Berry. With Portraits, Vignettes, and Fac-simile. 2 vols. post 8vo.,
price 15s. Post 8vo., price 5s. 6d.

ZOHRAB: or, a Midsummer Day's Dream: and other Poems. By WILLIAM THOMAS THORNTON, Author of
"An Essay on Over-Population," "A Plea for Peasant Proprietors," &c. Fcp. 8vo., price 4s. 6d.

REMAINS, LEGENDARY and POETICAL, of JOHN ROBY, Author of "Traditions of Lancashire." With a
Sketch of his Literary Life and Character, by his Widow. Post 8vo. (In January.)

BOWDLER'S FAMILY SHAKSPEARE. A New Edition, in Volumes for the Pocket. 6 Vols. fcap. 8vo.,
price 5s. each.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY of B. R. HAYDON, Historical Painter. Edited, and continued to his Death, from
his own Journals, by TOM TAYLOR, M.A., of the Inner Temple, Esq. Second Edition, with Additions.
3 vols. post 8vo., price 31s. 6d.

MAUNDER'S BIOGRAPHICAL TREASURY. A New Edition, thoroughly revised, and
brought down to the year 1854, by the insertion of numerous additional
Memoirs. Fcap. 8vo. A New Library Edition, revised by
the Author's Son. 2 vols. 8vo., price 21s.
  3. Another Edition, in 3 vols., fcap. 8vo., price 21s.

A GUIDE TO GEOLOGY. By JOHN PHILLIPS, F.R.S., F.G.S. Deputy Reader in Geology in the University
of Oxford, &c. New Edition (1854), corrected to the Present Time; with 4 Plates. Fcp. 8vo.,
price 5s.

PROFESSOR BRANDE'S DICTIONARY of SCIENCE, LITERATURE, and ART. A New Edition, corrected; with
a Supplement and Woodcuts, 8vo. price 3l.

London: LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, & LONGMANS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARCHÆOLOGICAL WORKS BY JOHN YONGE AKERMAN,

FELLOW AND SECRETARY OF THE SOCIETY OF ANTIQUARIES OF LONDON.

AN ARCHÆOLOGICAL INDEX to Remains of Antiquity of the Celtic, Romano-British, and Anglo-Saxon
Periods. 1 vol. 8vo., price 15s. cloth, illustrated by numerous Engravings, comprising upwards
of five hundred objects.

A NUMISMATIC MANUAL, 1 vol. 8vo., price One Guinea.

*** The Plates which illustrate this Volume are upon a novel plan, and will, at a glance, convey
more information regarding the types of Greek, Roman, and English Coins, than can be obtained
by many hours' careful reading. Instead of a fac-simile Engraving being given of that which
is already an enigma to the tyro, the most striking and characteristic features of the Coin
are dissected and placed by themselves, so that the eye soon becomes familiar with them.

A DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE of Rare and Unedited Roman Coins, from the Earliest Period to the taking
of Rome under Constantine Paleologos. 2 vols. 8vo., numerous Plates, 30s.

COINS OF THE ROMANS relating to Britain. 1 vol. 8vo. Second Edition, with an entirely new set
of Plates, price 10s. 6d.

ANCIENT COINS of CITIES and Princes, Geographically arranged and described, containing the
Coins of Hispania, Gallia, and Britannia, with Plates of several hundred examples. 1 vol. 8vo.,
price 18s.

NEW TESTAMENT, Numismatic Illustrations of the Narrative Portions of the.--Fine paper, numerous
Woodcuts from the original Coins in various Public and Private Collections. 1 vol. 8vo., price
5s. 6d.

AN INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY of ANCIENT and MODERN COINS. In 1 vol. fcp. 8vo., with numerous
Wood Engravings from the original Coins, price 6s. 6d. cloth.

    CONTENTS:--Section 1. Origin of Coinage--Greek Regal Coins. 2. Greek
    Civic Coins. 3. Greek Imperial Coins. 4. Origin of Roman
    Coinage--Consular Coins. 5. Roman Imperial Coins. 6. Roman British
    Coins. 7. Ancient British Coinage. 8. Anglo-Saxon Coinage. 9. English
    Coinage from the Conquest. 10. Scotch Coinage. 11. Coinage of Ireland.
    12. Anglo-Gallic Coins. 13. Continental Money in the Middle Ages. 14.
    Various Representatives of Coinage. 15. Forgeries in Ancient and Modern
    Times. 16. Table of Prices of English Coins realised at Public Sales.

TRADESMEN'S TOKENS, struck in London and its Vicinity, from the year 1648 to 1672 inclusive.
Described from the Originals in the Collection of the British Museum, &c. 15s.

REMAINS OF PAGAN SAXONDOM, principally from Tumuli in England. Publishing in 4to., in Numbers,
at 2s. 6d. With coloured Plates.

A GLOSSARY OF PROVINCIAL WORDS and PHRASES in Use in Wiltshire. 12mo., 3s.

THE NUMISMATIC CHRONICLE is published Quarterly. Price 3s. 6d. each Number.

JOHN RUSSELL SMITH, 36. Soho Square, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALBEMARLE STREET. January, 1854.

MR. MURRAY'S FORTHCOMING WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

I.

MURRAY'S BRITISH CLASSICS. Being a Series of newly edited and beautifully printed Demy Octavo
Library Editions of Standard English Authors, from the most correct Text. Vol. I. 8vo. 7s.
6d. (To be continued in Monthly Volumes.) (This Day.)

II.

WORKS OF GOLDSMITH, printed from the last Editions revised by the Author. New Edition. Edited
by PETER CUNNINGHAM, F.S.A. Vignettes. (To be completed in 4 vols.) Vol. I. 8vo. 7s. 6d. (Forming
the 1st Volume of MURRAY'S BRITISH CLASSICS.) (Ready.)

III.

GIBBON'S ROMAN EMPIRE: With Notes by DEAN MILMAN and M. GUIZOT. New Edition. Most carefully
compared, verified, and Edited, BY DR. WILLIAM SMITH. Maps. (To be completed in 8 vols.) Vol.
I. 8vo. 7s. 6d. (Forming the 2nd Volume of MURRAY'S BRITISH CLASSICS.) (On Feb. 2nd.)

IV.

THE TREASURES OF ART IN GREAT BRITAIN. Being an Account of the chief Collections of Paintings,
Sculptures, Miniatures, &c., in England. By DR. WAAGEN, Director of the Royal Gallery of Pictures
at Berlin. 3 vols. 8vo.

V.

HIMALAYAN JOURNALS; or, THE NOTES OF AN ORIENTAL NATURALIST IN BENGAL, THE SIKHIM AND NEPAL
HIMALAYAS, THE KHASIA MOUNTAINS, ETC. By DR. JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER. With Map, Coloured Plates,
and Woodcuts. 2 vols. 8vo.

VI.

SILURIA; or, a VIEW of the SILURIAN and other PRIMEVAL ROCKS, and their IMBEDDED REMAINS. By
SIR RODERICK MURCHISON. With Coloured Map, numerous Plates and Woodcuts. 8vo.

VII.

HISTORY OF LATIN CHRISTIANITY, and that of the POPES. By REV. H. H. MILMAN, D.D., Dean of St.
Paul's. 3 vols. 8vo.

VIII. A Sunday Book for Children. Woodcuts, 16mo. 3s. 6d. (Ready.)

IX.

KUGLER'S HANDBOOK OF PAINTING. (The GERMAN, DUTCH, FRENCH, and SPANISH SCHOOLS.) Edited by
SIR EDMUND HEAD. With Illustrations. 2 vols. Post 8vo. 24s.

X.

FARINI'S HISTORY OF THE ROMAN STATE. Translated from the Italian, by a LADY, under the Direction
of the RIGHT HON. W. E. GLADSTONE, M.P. Vol. IV. (completing the Work). 8vo.

XI.

HISTORY OF YUCATAN, from its Discovery to the Close of the 17th Century. By C. ST. JOHN FANCOURT,
recently H.M. Superintendent of the British Settlements in the Bay of Honduras. With Map. 8vo.
(Uniform with Prescott's Mexico.)

XII.

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES COMPARED WITH OUR OWN. By H. S. TREMENHEERE. Post 8vo.

       *       *       *       *       *

{3}

LONDON, SATURDAY, JANUARY 7, 1854.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR NINTH VOLUME.

The commencement of a New Year, and of our Ninth Volume, imposes upon Us the pleasant duty
of wishing many happy returns of the season to all our Friends, Correspondents, and Readers.

Those of the latter class, who have so earnestly impressed upon Us the propriety and advisableness
of placing our Advertisements on the outside leaves of each Number, will see that their wishes
have at length been complied with. We trust they will be pleased with this change, and receive
it as a proof of our readiness to attend to every reasonable suggestion for the improve of
"NOTES AND QUERIES." We can assure them that it is no less our desire to do so than our interest.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

A STRAWBERRY-HILL GEM.

    "Pour qui se donne la peine de chercher, il y a toujours quelque
    trouvaille à faire, même dans ce qui a été le plus visité.--Henry
    PATIN.

I take up a work of European celebrity, and reflect awhile on its bibliographic peculiarities--which
may almost pass for romance.

It is a Scottish work with regard to the family connexion of its author: it is an Irish work
with regard to the place of his nativity. It is an English work as to the scenes which it represents;
a French work as to the language in which it was written; a Dutch work as to the country in
which it came to light. It was formerly printed anonymously: it has since borne the name of
its author. It was formerly printed for public sale: it has been twice printed for private
circulation. It was formerly classed as fiction: it is now believed to be history.

But we have too many enigmas in the annals of literature, and I must not add to the number.
The work to which I allude is the Mémoires du comte de Grammont par le comte Antoine Hamilton.

The various indications of a projected re-impression of the work remind me of my portefeuille
Hamiltonien, and impose on me the task of a partial transcription of its contents.

Of the numerous editions of the Mémoires de Grammont as recorded by Brunet, Renouard, or Quérard,
or left unrecorded by those celebrated bibliographers, I shall describe only four; which I
commend to the critical examination of future editors:

    1. "Mémoires de la vie du comte de Grammont; contenant
    particuliérement l'histoire amoureuse de la cour d'Angleterre, sous le
    regne de Charles II. A Cologne, chez Pierre Marteau, 1713. 12^o, pp. 4
    + 428.

    "AVIS DU LIBRAIRE.--Il seroit inutile de recommander ici la lecture des
    mémoires qui composent ce volume: le titre seul de Mémoires du comte
    de Grammont réveillera sans doute la curiosité du public pour un homme
    qui lui est déjà si connu d'ailleurs, tant par la réputation qu'il a
    sçu se faire, que par les différens portraits qu'en ont donnez Mrs. de
    Bussi et de St. Evremont, dans leurs ouvrages; et l'on ne doute
    nullement qu'il ne reçoive, avec beaucoup de plaisir, un livre, dans
    lequel on lui raconte ses avantures, sur ce qu'il en a bien voulu
    raconter lui-même à celui qui a pris la peine de dresser ces mémoires.

    "On les donne ici sur une copie manuscrite, qu'on en a reçue de Paris:
    et on les a fait imprimer avec le plus d'exactitude qu'il a été
    possible."

The above is the first edition. The imprint is fictitious. It was much used by the Elzévirs,
and by other Dutch printers. The second edition, with the same imprint, is dated in 1714 (Cat.
de Guyon de Sardière, No. 939.). The third edition was printed at Rotterdam in 1716. The avis
is omitted in that edition, and in all the later impressions which I have seen. Its importance
as a history of the publication induces one to revive it. There is also an edition printed
at Amsterdam in 1717 (Cat. de Lamy, No. 3918.); and another at La Haye in 1731 (Cat. de Rothelin,
No. 2534*). Brunet omits the edition of 1713. Renouard and Quérard notice it too briefly.

    2. A Paris,
    chez la veuve Pissot, Quay de Conti, à la croix d'or. 1746." 12^o. pp.
    24 + 408.

    "AVERTISSEMENT. Le public a fait un accueil si favorable à ces
    Mémoires, que nous avons crû devoir en procurer une nouvelle edition.
    Outre les avantures du comte de Grammont, très-piquantes par
    elles-mêmes, ils contiennent l'histoire amoureuse d'Angleterre sous le
    regne de Charles II. Ils sont d'ailleurs écrits d'une maniére si vive
    et si ingénieuse, qu'ils ne laisseroient pas de plaire infiniment,
    quand la matiére en seroit moins interessante.

    "Le héros de ces Mémoires a trouvé dans le comte Hamilton un
    historien digne de lui. Car on n'ignore plus qu'ils sont partis de la
    même main à qui l'on doit encore d'autres ouvrages frappés au même
    coin.

    "Nous avons enrichi cette edition d'un discours mêlé de prose et de
    vers, où l'on exagére la difficulté qu'il y a de bien répresenter le
    comte de Grammont. On reconnoîtra facilement que ce discours est du
    même auteur que les Mémoires, et qu'il devoit naturellement en {4}
    orner le frontispice. Au reste il ne nous appartient point d'en
    apprécier le mérite. Nous dirons seulement que des personnes d'un goût
    sûr et délicat le comparent au Voyage de Chapelle, et qu'ils y
    trouvent les mêmes graces, le même naturel et la même légereté.

    "Il ne nous reste plus qu'à dire un mot de M. Hamilton lui-même, auteur
    de ces mémoires, et du discours qui les précede.

    "Antoine Hamilton dont nous parlons, étoit de l'ancienne et illustre
    maison de ce nom en Ecosse. Il nâquit en Irlande. Il eut pour pére le
    chevalier Georges Hamilton, petit-fils du duc d'Hamilton, qui fut aussi
    duc de Châtelleraud en France.

    "Sa mére étoit madame Marie Butler, soeur du duc d'Ormond, viceroi
    d'Irlande, et grand maître de la maison du roi Charles.

    "Dans les révolutions qui arrivérent du tems de Cromwel, ils suivirent
    le roi et le duc d'Yorck son frére qui passérent en France. Ils y
    amenérent leur famille. Antoine ne faisoit à peine que de naître.

    "Lorsque le roi fut rétabli sur son trône, il ramena en Angleterre les
    jeux et la magnificence. On voit dans les mémoires de Grammont combien
    cette cour étoit brillante; la curiosité y attira le comte de Grammont.
    Il y vit mademoiselle d'Hamilton, il ne tarda pas à sentir le pouvoir
    de ses charmes, il l'épousa enfin; et c'est la tendresse qu'Antoine
    avoit pour sa soeur, qui l'engagea à faire plusieurs voyages en France,
    où il étoit élevé, et où il a passé une partie de sa vie.

    "M. Antoine Hamilton étant catholique, il ne put obtenir d'emploi en
    Angleterre; et rien ne fut capable d'ébranler ni sa religion, ni la
    fidélité qu'il devoit à son roi.

    "Le roi Jaques étant monté sur le trône, il lui donna un regiment
    d'infanterie en Irlande et le gouvernement de Limeric. Mais ce prince,
    ayant été obligé de quitter ses etats le comte Hamilton repassa avec la
    famille royale en France. C'est-là et pendant le long séjour qu'il y a
    fait, qu'il a composé les divers ouvrages qui lui ont acquis tant de
    réputation. Il mourut à S. Germain le 21 Avril 1720. dans de grands
    sentimens de piété, et après avoir reçu les derniers sacremens. Il
    étoit âgé alors d'environ 74 ans. Il a mérité les regrets de tous ceux
    qui avoient le bonheur de le connoître. Né sérieux, il avoit dans
    l'esprit tous les agrémens imaginables; mais ce qui est plus digne de
    louanges, à ces agrémens, qui vent frivoles sans la vertu, il joignoit
    toutes les qualitéz du coeur."

If the above avertissement first appeared in 1746, which I have much reason to conclude, this
is certainly a very important edition. The biographical portion of the advertisement is the
foundation of the later memoirs of Hamilton. In the Moréri of 1759, we have it almost verbatim,
but taken from the Oeuvres du comte Antoine Hamilton, 1749. Neither Brunet, nor Renouard, nor
Quérard notice the edition of 1746. The copy which I have examined has the book-plate G. III. R.

    3. "Memoires du comte de Grammont, par le C. Antoine Hamilton. 1760."
    [De l'imprimerie de Didot, rue Pavée, 1760.] 12^o. I. partie, pp. 36 +
    316. II. partie, pp. 4 + 340.

This edition has the same avertissement as that of 1746. The imprint is M.DCC.LX. The type
resembles our small pica, and the paper has the water-mark Auvergne 1749. At the end of the
second part appears, De l'imprimerie de Didot, rue Pavée, 1760. This must be M. François Didot
of Paris. I find the same colophon in the Bibliographie instructive, 1763-8. v. 631. This very
neat edition has also escaped the aforesaid bibliographic trio!

    4. Imprimée à Strawberry-Hill. 1772."
    4^o, pp. 24 + 294. 3 portraits.

    [Dedication.] "À madame....

    "L'éditeur vous consacre cette édition, comme un monument de son
    amitié, de son admiration, et de son respect; à vous, dont les grâces,
    l'esprit, et le goût retracent au siècle présent le siècle de Louis
    quatorze et les agrémens de l'auteur de ces mémoires."

Such are the inscriptions on the Strawberry-Hill gem. Much has been said of its brilliancy--and
so, for the sake of novelty, I shall rather dwell on its flaws.

The volume was printed at the private press of M. Horace Walpole at Strawberry-Hill, and the
impression was limited to one hundred copies, of which thirty were sent to Paris. So much for
its attractions--now for its flaws. In reprinting the dedication to madame du Deffand, I had
to insert eight accents to make decent French of it! The avis is a mere medley of fragments:
I could not ask a compositor to set it up! The avertissement is copied, without a word of intimation
to that effect, from the edition of 1746. The notes to the épître are also copied from that
edition, except L'abbé de Chaulieu; and two of the notes to the memoirs are from the same source.
The other notes, in the opinion of sir William Musgrave, are in part taken from an erroneous
printed Key. Where are the éclaircissements? I find none except a list of proper names--of
which about one-third part is omitted!

In quoting Brunet, I have used the fourth edition of the Manuel du libraire, 1842-4; in quoting
Renouard, I refer to the avis prefixed to the Oeuvres du comte Antoine Hamilton, 1812; in quoting
Quérard, to La France littéraire, 1827-39. The other references are to sale catalogues. The
titles of the books described, and the extracts, are given literatim, and, except as above
noted, with the same accentuation and punctuation.

To revert to the question of a new edition: I should prefer the French text, for various reasons,
to any English translation that could be made. That of Abel Boyer is wretched burlesque!

The chief requirements of a French edition would be, a collation of the editions of 1713 and
1746--the rectification of the names of persons {5} and places--a revision of the punctuation--and
a strict conformity, as to general orthography and accentuation, with the Dictionnaire de l'Académie
française, as edited in 1835. The substance of the avis of 1713 might be stated in a preface;
and the avertissement of 1746, a clever composition, would serve as an introduction and memoir
of the author. Those who doubt its value may consult the Grand dictionnaire historique, and
the Biographie universelle. As one hundred and sixty persons are noticed in the work, brevity
of annotation is very desirable. It would require much research. The manuscript notes of sir
William Musgrave would, however, be very serviceable--more so, I conceive, than the printed
notes of M. Horace Walpole.

As the indications of a projected re-impression may be fallacious, I shall conclude with a
word of advice to inexperienced collectors. Avoid the jolie édition printed at Paris by F.
A. Didot, par ordre de monseigneur le comte d'Artois, in 1781. It is the very worst specimen
of editorship. Avoid also the London edition of 1792. The preface is a piratical pasticcio;
the verbose notes are from the most accessible books; the portraits, very unequal in point
of execution, I believe to be chiefly copies of prints--not d'après des tableaux originaux.
The most desirable editions are, 1. The edition of 1760; 2. That of 1772, as a curiosity; 3.
That edited by M. Renouard, Paris, 1812, 18^o. 2 vols.; 4. That edited by M. Renouard in 1812,
8^o. with eight portraits. The latter edition forms part of the Oeuvres du comte Antoine Hamilton
in 3 vols. It seldom occurs for sale.

BOLTON CORNEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE "ANCREN RIWLE."

The publication of this valuable semi-Saxon or Early English treatise on the duties of monastic
life, recently put forth by the Camden Society, under the editorship of the Rev. James Morton,
is extremely acceptable, and both the Society and the editor deserve the cordial thanks of
all who are interested in the history of our language. As one much interested in the subject,
and who many years since entertained the design now so ably executed by Mr. Morton, I may perhaps
be allowed to offer a few remarks on the work itself, and on the manuscripts which contain
it. Mr. Morton is unquestionably right in his statement that the Latin MS. in Magdalen College,
Oxford, No. 67., is only an abridged translation of the original vernacular text. Twenty-three
years ago I had access to the same MS. by permission of the Rev. Dr. Routh, the President of
Magdalen College, and after reading and making extracts from it[1], I came to the same conclusion
as Mr. Morton. It hardly admits, I think, of a doubt; for even without the internal evidence
furnished by the Latin copy, the age of the manuscripts containing the Early English text at
once set aside the supposition that Simon of Ghent (Bishop of Salisbury from 1297 to 1315)
was the original author of the work. The copy in Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, I have
not seen, but of the three copies in the British Museum I feel confident that the one marked
Cleopatra C. vi. was actually written before Bishop Simon of Ghent had emerged from the nursery.
This copy is not only the oldest, but the most curious, from the corrections and alterations
made in it by a somewhat later hand, the chief of which are noticed in the printed edition.
The collation, however, of this MS. might have been, with advantage, made more minutely, for
at present many readings are passed over. Thus, at p. 8., for unweote the second hand has congoun;
at p. 62., for herigen it has preisen; at p. 90., for on cheafle, it reads o muþe, &c. The
original hand has also some remarkable variations, which would cause a suspicion that this
was the first draft of the author's work. Thus, at p. 12., for scandle, the first hand has
schonde; at p. 62., for baldeliche it reads bradliche; at p. 88., for nout for, it has anonden,
and the second hand aneust; at p. 90., for sunderliche it reads sunderlepes, &c. All these,
and many other curious variations, are not noticed in the printed edition. On the fly-leaf
of this MS. is written, in a hand of the time of Edward I., as follows: "Datum abbatie et conventui
de Leghe per Dame M. de Clare." The lady here referred to was doubtless Maud de Clare, second
wife of Richard de Clare, Earl of Hereford and Gloucester, who, at the beginning of the reign
of Edward I., is known to have changed the Augustinian Canons of Leghe, in Devonshire, into
an abbess and nuns of the same order; and it was probably at the same period she bestowed this
volume on them. The conjecture of Mr. Morton, that Bishop Poore, who died in 1237, might have
been the original author of the Ancren Riwle, is by no means improbable, and deserves farther
inquiry. The error as to Simon of Ghent is due, in the first place, not to Dr. Smith, but to
Richard James (Sir Robert Cotton's librarian), who wrote on the fly-leaves of all the MSS.
in the Cottonian Library a note of their respective contents, and who is implicitly followed
by Smith. Wanley is more blamable, and does not here evince his usual critical accuracy, but
(as remarked by Mr. Morton) he could only have looked at a few pages of the work. The real
fact seems to be that Simon of Ghent made the abridged Latin version of the seven books of
the Riwle now preserved in Magdalen College, and this supposition may well enough be reconciled
with the words of Leland, who says of him,--

    "Edidit inter cætera, libros septem de Vita Solitaria, {6} ad
    Virgines Tarentinas, Duriæ cultrices."--Comment., p. 316.

A second copy of the Latin version was formerly in the Cottonian collection (Vitellius E. vii.),
but no fragment of it has hitherto been recovered from the mass of burnt crusts and leaves
left after the fire of 1731. I am happy, however, to add, that within the last few months,
the manuscript marked Vitellius F. vii., containing a French translation of the Riwle, made
in the fourteenth century (very closely agreeing with the vernacular text), has been entirely
restored, except that the top margins of the leaves have been burnt at each end of the volume.
This damage has, unfortunately, carried away the original heading of the treatise, and the
title given us by Smith is copied partly from James's note. This copy of the French version
appears to be unique, and is the more interesting from its having a note at the end (now half
obliterated by the fire), stating that it belonged to Eleanor de Bohun, Duchess of Gloucester,
whose motto is also added, "Plesance. M [mil]. en vn." The personage in question was Eleanor,
daughter of Humphrey de Bohun, Earl of Hereford, and wife of Thomas of Woodstock, who ended
her days as a nun in the convent at Barking in 1399. Is any other instance known of the use
of this motto? Before I conclude these brief remarks, I may mention a fifth copy of the Ancren
Riwle, which has escaped the notice of Mr. Morton. It is buried in the enormous folio manuscript
of old English poetry and prose called the Vernon MS., in the Bodleian Library, written in
the reign of Richard II., and occurs at pp. 371^b.--392. In the table of contents prefixed
to this volume it is entitled "The Roule of Reclous;" and although the phraseology is somewhat
modernised, it agrees better with the MS. Cleopatra C. vi, than with Nero A. xiv., from which
Mr. Morton's edition is printed. This copy is not complete, some leaves having been cut out
in the sixth book, and the scribe leaves off at p. 420. of the printed edition.

It is very much to be wished that Mr. Morton would undertake the task of editing another volume
of legends, homilies, and poems, of the same age as the Ancren Riwle, still existing in various
manuscripts. One of the homilies, entitled "Sawles Warde," in the Bodley MS. 34., Cott. MS.
Titus D. xviii., and Old Royal MS. 17A. xxvii., is very curious, and well deserves to be printed.

F. MADDEN.

British Museum.

[Footnote 1: At p. viii. of Mr. Morton's preface, for "yerze" (eye), my extracts read "yze."]

       *       *       *       *       *

ORDER FOR THE SUPPRESSION OF VAGRANCY, A.D. 1650-51.

At a time when the question of "What is to be done with our vagrant children?" is occupying
the attention of all men of philanthropic minds, it may be worth while to give place in your
pages to the following order addressed by the Lord Mayor of London to his aldermen in 1650-51,
which applies, amongst other things, to that very subject. It will be seen that some of the
artifices of beggary in that day were very similar to those with which we are now but too familiar.
The difference of treatment between vagrant children over and under nine years of age, is worthy
of observation.

    "BY THE MAYOR.

    "Forasmuch as of late the constables of this city have neglected to put
    in execution the severall wholsome laws for punishing of vagrants, and
    passing them to the places of their last abode, whereby great scandall
    and dishonour is brought upon the government of this city; These are
    therefore to will and require you, or your deputy, forthwith to call
    before you the several constables within your ward, and strictly to
    charge them to put in execution the said laws, or to expect the penalty
    of forty shillings to be levyed upon their estates, for every vagrant
    that shal be found begging in their several precincts. And to the end
    the said constables may not pretend ignorance, what to do with the
    several persons which they shal find offending the said laws, these are
    further to require them, that al aged or impotent persons who are not
    fit to work, be passed from constable to constable to the parish where
    they dwel; and that the constable in whose ward they are found begging,
    shal give a passe under his hand, expressing the place where he or she
    were taken, and the place whither they are to be passed. And for
    children under five years of age, who have no dwelling, or cannot give
    an account of their parents, the parish where they are found are to
    provide for them; and for those which shall bee found lying under
    stalls, having no habitation or parents (from five to nine years old),
    are to be sent to the Wardrobe House[2], to be provided for by the
    corporation for the poore; and all above nine years of age are to be
    sent to Bridewel. And for men or women who are able to work and goe
    begging with young children, such persons for the first time to be
    passed to the place of their abode as aforesaid; and being taken
    againe, they are to be carryed to Bridewel, to be corrected according
    to the discretion of the governours. And for those persons that shal
    be found to hire children, or go begging with children not sucking,
    those children are to be sent to the several parishes wher they dwel,
    and the persons so hiring them to Bridewel, to be corrected and passed
    away, or kept at work there, according to the governour's discretion.
    And for al other vagrants and beggars under any pretence whatsoever, to
    be forthwith sent down to Bridewel to be imployed and corrected,
    according to the statute laws of this commonwealth, except before
    excepted; and the president and governours of Bridewel are hereby
    desired to meet twice every week to see to the execution of this
    Precept. And the steward of the workehouse called the Wardrobe, is {7}
    authorised to receive into that house such children as are of the age
    between five and nine, as is before specified and limited; and the
    said steward is from time to time to acquaint the corporation for the
    poor, what persons are brought in, to the end they may bee provided
    for. Dated this four and twentyeth day of January, 1650.

    SADLER."

JOHN BRUCE.

[Footnote 2: I suppose this to have been the ancient building known by the name of The Royal,
or The Tower Royal, used for a time as the Queen's Wardrobe. It will be seen that it was occupied
in 1650 as a workhouse.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTERS OF EMINENT LITERARY MEN.

    Sir,

    I send you, as a New Year's Gift for your "N. & Q.," transcripts of
    half-a-dozen Letters of Eminent Literary Men, specimens of whose
    correspondence it will do your work no discredit to preserve,

  Yours faithfully,
          HENRY ELLIS.

British Museum, Dec. 26, 1853.

I.

Dean Swift to * * * * * * *.

[MS. Addit., Brit. Mus., 12,113. Orig.]

    Belcamp, Mar. 14th.

    Sir,

    Riding out this morning to dine here with Mr. Grattan, I saw at his
    house the poor lame boy that gives you this: he was a servant to a
    plow-man near Lusk, and while he was following the plow, a dog bit him
    in the leg, about eleven weeks ago. One Mrs. Price endeavored six weeks
    to cure him, but could not, and his Master would maintain him no
    longer. Mr. Grattan and I are of opinion that he may be a proper object
    to be received into Dr. Stephen's Hospital. The boy tells his story
    naturally, and Mr. Grattan and I took pity of him. If you find him
    curable, and it be not against the rules of the Hospitall, I hope you
    will receive him.

  I am, Sir,
    Your most humble Servt.
          JONATH. SWIFT.

II.

The Rev. Thomas Baker to Mr. Humphry Wanley.

[Harl. MS. 3778, Art. 43. Orig.]

    Cambridge, Oct. 16th [1718].

    Worthy Sir

    I am glad to hear Mrs. Elstob is in a condition to pay her debts, for
    me she may be very easy: tho' I could wish for the sake of the
    University (tho' I am no way engaged, having taken up my obligation)
    that you could recover the Book, or at least could find where it is
    lodged, that Mr. Brook may know where to demand it. This, I presume,
    may be done.

    If you have met with Books printed by Guttenberg, you have made a great
    discovery. I thought there had been none such in the world, and began
    to look upon Fust as the first Printer. I have seen the Bishop of Ely's
    Catholicon (now with us), which, for aught I know, may have been
    printed by Guttenberg; for tho' it be printed at Ments, yet there is no
    name of the Printer, and the character is more rude than Fust's
    Tullie's Offices, whereof there are two Copies in 1465 and 1466, the
    first on vellum, the other on paper.

    May I make a small enquiry, after the mention of so great a name as
    Guttenberg? I remember, you told me, my Lord Harley had two Copies of
    Edw. the Sixth's first Common Prayer Book. Do you remember whether
    either of them be printed by Grafton, the King's Printer? I have seen
    four or five Editions by Whitchurch, but never could meet with any by
    Grafton, except one in my custody, which I shall look upon to be a
    great Rarity, if it be likewise wanting to my Lord's Collection. It
    varies from all the other Copies, and is printed in 1548. All the rest,
    I think, in 1549. One reason of my enquiry is, because I want the
    Title, for the date is at the end of the Book, and indeed twice; both
    on the end of the Communion Office, and of the Litany. But I beg your
    pardon for so small an enquiry, whilst you are in quest of Guttenberg
    and Nic. Jenson. My business consists much in trifles.

  I am, Sir,
    Your most ob. humble
      Servant,
          THO. BAKER.

    To the worthy Mr. Wanley, at the
    Riding Hood Shop, the corner
    of Chandois and Bedford Streets,
    Covent Garden,
    London.

A note in Wanley's hand says, "Mrs. Elstob has only paid a few small scores."

III.

Extract of a Letter from Wm. Bickford, Esq., to the Rev. Mr. Amory of Taunton, dated Dunsland,
March 7, 1731.

[MS. Addit., Brit. Mus., 4309, fol. 358.]

    I cannot forbear acquainting you of a very curious passage in relation
    to Charles the Second's Restoration. Sir Wm. Morrice, who was one of
    the Secretaries of State soon after, was the person who chiefly
    transacted that affair with Monk, so that all the papers in order to it
    were sent him, both from King Charles and Lord Clarendon. Just after
    the thing was finished, Lord Clarendon got more than 200 of these
    Letters and other papers from Morrice under pretence of finishing his
    History, and which were never returned. Lord Somers, when he was
    chancellor, told Morrice's Grandson that if he would file a Bill in
    Chancery, he would endeavour to get them; but young Morrice having
    deserted the Whig Interest, was {8} prevailed upon to let it drop. This
    I know to be fact, for I had it not only from the last-mentioned
    Gentleman, but others of that family, especially a son of the
    Secretaries. As soon as I knew this, I took the first opportunity of
    searching the study, and found some very curious Letters, which one
    time or other I design to publish together with the account of that
    affair. My mother being Niece to the Secretary, hath often heard him
    say that Charles the Second was not only very base in not keeping the
    least of the many things that he had promised; but by debauching the
    Nation, had rendered it fitt for that terrible fellow (meaning the Duke
    of York) to ruin us all, and then Monk and him would be remembred to
    their Infamy.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

BURIAL-PLACE OF ARCHBISHOP LEIGHTON.

On a visit this autumn with some friends to the picturesque village and church of Horsted-Keynes,
Sussex, our attention was forcibly arrested by the appearance of two large pavement slabs,
inserted in an erect position on the external face of the south wall of the chancel. They proved
to be those which once had covered and protected the grave of the good Archbishop Leighton,
who passed the latter years of his life in that parish, and that of Sir Ellis Leighton, his
brother. On inquiry, it appeared that their remains had been deposited within a small chapel
on the south side of the chancel, the burial-place of the Lightmaker family, of Broadhurst,
in the parish of Horsted. The archbishop retired thither in 1674, and resided with his only
sister, Saphira, widow of Mr. Edward Lightmaker. Broadhurst, it may be observed, is sometimes
incorrectly mentioned by the biographers of Archbishop Leighton as a parish; it is an ancient
mansion, the residence formerly of the Lightmakers, and situated about a mile north of the
village of Horsted. There it was that Leighton made his will, in February, 1683; but his death
occurred, it will be remembered, in singular accordance with his desire often expressed, at
an inn, the Bell, in Warwick Lane, London.

The small chapel adjacent to the chancel, and opening into it by an arch now walled up, had
for some time, as I believe, been used as a school-room; more recently, however, either through
its becoming out of repair, or from some other cause, the little structure was demolished.
The large slabs which covered the tombs of the good prelate and his brother were taken up and
fixed against the adjoining wall. The turf now covers the space thus thrown into the open churchyard;
nothing remains to mark the position of the graves, which in all probability, ere many years
elapse, will be disturbed through ignorance or heedlessness, and the ashes of Leighton scattered
to the winds.

In times when special respect has been shown to the tombs of worthies of bygone times, with
the recent recollection also of what has been so well carried out by MR. MARKLAND in regard
to the grave of Bishop Ken, shall we not make an effort to preserve from desecration and oblivion
the resting-place of one so eminent as Leighton for his learning and piety, so worthy to be
held in honoured remembrance for his high principles and his consistent conduct in an evil age?

ALBERT WAY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Grammars, &c. for Public Schools.--Would it not be desirable for some correspondents of "N.
& Q." to furnish information respecting grammars, classics, and other works which have been
written for the various public schools? Such information might be useful to book collectors;
and would also serve to reflect credit on the schools whose learned masters have prepared such
books. My contribution to the list is small: but I remember a valuable Greek grammar prepared
by the Rev. ---- Hook, formerly head master of the College School at Gloucester, for the use
of that establishment; as also a peculiar English grammar prepared by the Rev. R. S. Skillern,
master of St. Mary de Crypt School, in the same place, for the use of that school. I also possess
a copy (1640) of the Romanæ Historiæ Anthologia, for the use of Abingdon School, and Moses
and Aaron, or the Rites and Customs of the Hebrews (1641), both by Thos. Godwin, though the
latter was written after he ceased to be master of the schools.

P. H. FISHER.

Stroud.

"To captivate."--Moore, in his Journal, speaking of the Americans (January 9th, 1819), says:

    "They sometimes, I see, use the word captivate thus: 'Five or six
    ships captivated,' 'Five or six ships captivated.'"

Originally, the words to captivate were synonymous with to capture, and the expression was
used with reference to warlike operations. To captivate the affections was a secondary use
of the phrase. The word is used in the original sense in many old English books. It is not
used so now in the United States.

UNEDA.

Philadelphia.

Bohn's Edition of Matthew of Westminster.--Under the year A.D. 782, the translator informs
us that "Hirenes and his son Constantine became emperors." Such an emperor is not to be found
{9} in the annals of Constantinople. If Mr. Yonge, who shows elsewhere that he has read Gibbon,
had referred to him on this occasion, he would probably have found that the Empress Irene,
a name dear to the reverencers of images, was the person meant. The original Latin probably
gives no clue to the sex; but still this empress, who is considered as a saint by her church,
notwithstanding the deposition and blinding of her own son, was not a personage to be so easily
forgotten.

J. S. WARDEN.

French Season Rhymes and Weather Rhymes.--

 "A la Saint-Antoine (17th January)
  Les jours croissent le repas d'un moine."

 "A la Saint-Barnabé (11th June)
  La faux au pré."

 "A la Sainte-Cathérine (25th November)
  Tout bois prend racine."

 "Passé la Saint-Clément (23rd November)
  Ne sème plus froment."

 "Si l'hiver va droit son chemin,
  Vous l'aurez à la Saint-Martin." (12th Nov.)

 "S'il n'arreste tant ne quant,
  Vous l'aurez à la Saint-Clément." (23rd Nov.)

 "Et s'il trouve quelqu' encombrée,
  Vous l'aurez à la Saint-André." (30th Nov.)

CEYREP.

Curious Epitaph in Tillingham Church, Essex.--

 "Hic jacet Humfridus Carbo, carbone notandus
  Non nigro, Creta sed meliora tua.
  Claruit in clero, nulli pietate secundus.
  Cælum vi rapuit, vi cape si poteris.
      Ob^t. 27 Mar. 1624. Æt. 77."

Which has been thus ingeniously paraphrased by a friend of mine:

 "Here lies the body of good Humphry Cole,
  Tho' Black his name, yet spotless is his soul;
  But yet not black tho' Carbo is the name,
  Thy chalk is scarcely whiter than his fame.
  A priest of priests, inferior was to none,
  Took Heaven by storm when here his race was run.
  Thus ends the record of this pious man;
  Go and do likewise, reader, if you can."

C. K. P.

Newport, Essex.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

DOMESTIC LETTERS OF EDMUND BURKE.

In the curious and able article entitled "The Domestic Life of Edmund Burke," which appeared
in the Athenæum of Dec. 10th and Dec. 17th (and to which I would direct the attention of such
readers of "N. & Q." as have not yet seen it), the writer observes:

    "There is not in existence, as far as we know, or have a right to infer
    from the silence of the biographers, one single letter, paper, or
    document of any kind--except a mysterious fragment of one
    letter--relating to the domestic life of the Burkes, until long after
    Edmund Burke became an illustrious and public man; no letters from
    parents to children, from children to parents, from brother to brother,
    or brother to sister."

And as Edmund Burke was the last survivor of the family, the inference drawn by the writer,
that they were destroyed by him, seems, on the grounds which he advances, a most reasonable
one. But my object in writings is to call attention to a source from which, if any such letters
exist, they may yet possibly be recovered; I mean the collections of professed collectors of
autographs. On the one hand, it is scarcely to be conceived that the destroyer of these materials
for the history of the Burkes, be he who he may, can have got all the family correspondence
into his possession. On the other, it is far from improbable that in some of the collections
to which I have alluded, some letters, notes, or documents may exist, treasured by the possessors
as mere autographs; but which might, if given to the world, serve to solve many of those mysteries
which envelope the early history of Edmund Burke. The discovery of documents of such a character
seems to be the special province of "N. & Q.," and I hope, therefore, although this letter
has extended far beyond the limits I originally contemplated, you will insert it, and so permit
me to put this Query to autograph collectors, "Have you any documents illustrative of the Burkes?"
and to add as a Note, "If so, print them!"

N. O.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Farrant's Anthem.--From what source did Farrant take the words of his well-known anthem, "Lord,
for thy tender mercies' sake?"

C. F. S.

Ascension Day Custom.--What is the origin of the custom which still obtains in St. Magnus and
other city churches, of presenting the clergy with ribbons, cakes, and silk staylaces on Ascension
Day?

C. F. S.

Sawbridge and Knight's Numismatic Collections.--In Snelling's tract on Pattern Pieces for English
Gold and Silver Coins (1769), p. 45., it is stated, in the description of a gold Coin of Elizabeth,
that it is "unique, formerly in the collection of Thomas Sawbridge, Esq., but at present in
the collection of Thomas Knight, Esq., who purchased the whole cabinet."--Can any of your readers
inform me who this Mr. Knight was, and whether his collection is still in existence; or if
it was dispersed, when, and in what manner? I am not aware of any sale catalogue under his name.

J. B. B.

"The spire whose silent finger points to heaven."--I have met with, and sometimes quoted, this
line. {10} Who is its author, and in what poem does it occur?

J. W. T.

Dewsbury.

Lord Fairfax.--In the Peerage of Scotland I find this entry:

    "Fairfax, Baron, Charles Snowdon Fairfax, 1627, Baron Fairfax, of
    Cameron; suc. his grandfather, Thomas, ninth baron, 1846. His lordship
    resides at Woodburne, in Maryland, United States."

Fairfax is not a Scotch name. And I can find no trace of any person of that family taking a
part in Scotch affairs. Cameron is, I suppose, the parish of that name in the east of Fife.

I wish to ask, 1st. For what services, or under what circumstances, the barony was created?

2ndly. When did the family cease to possess land or other property in Scotland, if they ever
held any?

3rdly. Is the present peer a citizen or subject of the United States? If so, is he known and
addressed as Lord Fairfax, or how?

4thly. Has he, or has any of his ancestors, since the recognition of the United States as a
nation, ever used or applied for permission to exercise the functions of a peer of Scotland,
e.g. in the election of representative peers?

5thly. If he be a subject of the United States, and have taken, expressly or by implication,
the oath of citizenship (which pointedly renounces allegiance to our sovereign), how is it
that his name is retained on the roll of a body whose first duty it is to guard the throne,
and whose existence is a denial of the first proposition in the constitution of his country?

Perhaps UNEDA, W. W., or some other of your Philadelphia correspondents, will be good enough
to notice the third of these Queries.

W. H. M.

Tailless Cats.--A writer in the New York Literary World of Feb. 7, 1852, makes mention of a
breed of cats destitute of tails, which are found in the Isle of Man. Perhaps some generous
Manx correspondent will say whether this is a fact or a Jonathan.

SHIRLEY HIBBERD.

Saltcellar.--Can any of your readers gainsay that in saltcellar the cellar is a mere corruption
of salière? A list of compound words of Saxon and French origin might be curious.

H. F. B.

Arms and Motto granted to Col. William Carlos.--Can any reader of "N. & Q." give the date of
the grant of arms to Col. William Carlos (who assisted Charles II. to conceal himself in the
"Royal Oak," after the battle of Worcester), and specify the exact terms of the grant?

[mu].

Naval Atrocities.--In the article on "Wounds," in the Encyc. Brit., 4th edition, published
1810, the author, after mentioning the necessity of a surgeon's being cautious in pronouncing
on the character of any wound, adds that "this is particularly necessary on board ship, where,
as soon as any man is pronounced by the surgeon to be mortally wounded, he is forthwith, while
still living and conscious, thrown overboard," or words to this effect, as I quote from memory.
That such horrid barbarity was not practised in 1810, it is needless to say; and if it had
been usual at any previous period, Smollett and other writers who have exposed with unsparing
hand all the defects in the naval system of their day, would have scarcely left this unnoticed
when they attack much slighter abuses. If such a thing ever occurred, even in the worst of
times, it must have been an isolated case. I have not met elsewhere with any allusion to this
passage, or the atrocity recorded in it, and would be glad of more information on the subject.

J. S. WARDEN.

Turlehydes.--During the great famine in Ireland land in 1331, it is said that--

    "The people in their distress met with an unexpected and providential
    relief. For about the 24th June, a prodigious number of large sea fish,
    called turlehydes, were brought into the bay of Dublin, and cast on
    shore at the mouth of the river Dodder. They were from thirty to forty
    feet long, and so bulky that two tall men placed one on each side of
    the fish could not see one another."--The History and Antiquities of
    the City of Dublin from the Earliest Accounts, by Walter Harris, 1766,
    p. 265.

This account is compiled from several records of the time, some of which still exist. As the
term turlehydes is not known to Irish scholars, can any of the readers of "N. & Q." say what
precise animal is meant by it, or give any derivation or reference for the term?

U. U.

Dublin.

Foreign Orders--Queen of Bohemia.--It is well known that in some foreign Orders the decorations
thereof are conferred upon ladies. Can any of your correspondents inform me whether the Order
of the Annunciation of Sardinia, formerly the Order of the Ducal House of Savoy, at any time
conferred its decorations upon ladies; and whether the Princess Elizabeth, afterwards Queen
of Bohemia, ever had the decoration of any foreign order conferred upon her? In a portrait
of her she is represented with a star or badge upon the upper part of the left arm.

S. E. G.

Pickard Family.--Is the Pickard, or Picard, family, a branch of which is located in Yorkshire,
of Norman origin? If so, who were the first settlers in England; and also in what county are
they most numerous?

ONE OF THE FAMILY.

Bradford.

{11}

Irish Chieftains.--Some account of the following, Historical Reminiscences of O'Byrnes, O'Tooles,
O'Kavanaghs, and other Irish Chieftains, privately printed, 1843, is requested by

JOHN MARTIN.

Woburn Abbey.

General Braddock.--Can any of your readers furnish me with information relative to this officer?
His disastrous expedition against Fort Du Quesne, and its details, are well known; but I should
like to know something more of his previous history. Walpole gives an anecdote or two of him,
and mentions that he had been Governor of Gibraltar. I think too he was of Irish extraction.
Is there no portrait or engraving of Braddock in existence?

SERVIENS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

Lawless Court, Rochford, Essex.--A most extraordinary custom exists, in a manor at Rochford,
in the tenants holding under what is called the "Lawless Court." This court is held at midnight,
by torch-light, in the centre of a field, on the first Friday after the 29th Sept., and is
presided over by the steward of the manor, who, however, appoints a deputy to fulfil this part
of his duty. The tenants of the manor are obliged to attend to answer to their names, when
called upon, under pain of a heavy fine, or at all events have some one there to respond for
them. All the proceedings are carried on in a whisper, no one speaking above that tone of voice;
and the informations as to deaths, names, &c. are entered in a book by the president with a
piece of charcoal. I may add, the business is not commenced until a cock has crowed three times,
and as it is sometimes a difficult matter to get Chanticleer to do his duty, a man is employed
to crow, whose fee therefor is 5s.

Now Morant, in his History of Essex, merely cursorily mentions this most singular custom, and
has nothing as to its antiquity or origin; I should therefore feel much obliged for any information
concerning it.

RUSSELL GOLE.

    [The singular custom at Rochford is of uncertain origin: in old authors
    it is spoken of as belonging to the manor of Rayleigh. The following
    account of "The Lawless Court," at that place, is printed by Hearne
    from the Dodsworth MSS. in the Bodleian, vol. cxxv.:--"The manor of
    Raylie, in Essex, hath a custome court kept yearly, the Wednesday nexte
    after Michael's day. The court is kept in the night, and without light,
    but as the skye gives, att a little hill without the towne, called the
    King's Hill, where the steward writes only with coals, and not with
    inke. And many men and mannors of greate worth hold of the same, and do
    suite unto this strange court, where the steward calls them with as low
    a voice as possibly he may; giving no notice when he goes to the hill
    to keepe the same court, and he that attends not is deepely amerced, if
    the steward will. The title and entry of the same court is as
    followeth, viz.:

     'Curia de domino rege,
      Dicta sine lege,
      Tenta est ibidem,
      Per ejusdem consuetudinem,
        Ante ortum solis,
      Luceat nisi polus,
      Seneschallus solus,
        Scribit nisi colis.
      Clamat clam pro rege
      In curia sine lege:
      Et qui non cito venerit
      Citius poenitebit:
      Si venerit cum lumine
      Errat in regimine.
      Et dum sine lumine
      Capti sunt in crimine,
      Curia sine cura
      Jurata de injuria
        Tenta est die Mercuriæ
          prox. post festum S. Michaelis.'"

    Weever, who mentions this custom, says, that he was informed that "this
    servile attendance was imposed, at the first, upon certaine tenants of
    divers mannors hereabouts, for conspiring in this place, at such an
    unseasonable time, to raise a commotion."]

Motto on old Damask.--Can your correspondents furnish an explanation of the motto herewith
sent? It is taken from some damask table napkins which were bought many years back at Brussels;
not at a shop in the ordinary way, but privately, from the family to whom they belonged. I
presume the larger characters, if put together, will indicate the date of the event, whatever
that may be, which is referred to in the motto itself.

The motto is woven in the pattern of the damask, and consists of the following words in uncials,
the letters of unequal size, as subjoined:

    "SIGNUM PACIS DATUR LORICÆ."

the larger letters being IUMCIDULIC. If the U's are taken as two V's, and written thus X, it
gives the date MDCCLXIII. Perhaps this can be explained.

H.

    [The chronogram above, which means "The signal of peace is given to the
    warrior," relates to the peace proclaimed between England and France in
    the year 1763. This event is noticed in the Annual Register, and in
    most of our popular histories. Keightley says, "The overtures of France
    for peace were readily listened to; and both parties being in earnest,
    the preliminaries were readily settled at Fontainebleau (Nov. 3rd). In
    spite of the declamation of Mr. Pitt and his party, they were approved
    of by large majorities in both Houses of Parliament, and a treaty was
    finally signed in Paris, Feb. 18, 1763." The napkins were probably a
    gift, on the occasion, to some public functionary. For the custom of
    noting the date of a great event by chronograms, see "N. & Q.," Vol.
    v., p. 585.]

{12}

Explanation of the Word "Miser."--Can any of your readers explain how and when miser came to
get the meaning of an avaricious hoarding man? In Spenser's Faerie Queene, II. l. 8., it is
used in its nearly primary sense of "wretch:"

 "Vouchsafe to stay your steed for humble miser's sake."

Again, Faerie Queene, II. 3. 8.:

 "The miser threw himself, as an offall,
  Straight at his foot in base humility."

Bottisham.

    [The modern restricted use of the word miser is subsequent to
    Shakspeare's time for in Part I. King Henry VI., Act V. Sc. 4.,

     "Decrepit miser! base ignoble wretch!"

    Steevens says has no relation to avarice, but simply means a
    miserable creature. So in the interlude of Jacob and Esau, 1568:

     "But as for these misers within my father's tent."

    Again, in Lord Stirling's tragedy of Croesus, 1604:

     "Or think'st thou me of judgement too remiss,
      A miser that in miserie remains."

    Otway, however, in his Orphan, published in 1680, uses it for a
    covetous person:

     "Though she be dearer to my soul than rest
      To weary pilgrims, or to misers gold,
      Rather than wrong Castalio, I'd forget thee."

    So also does Pope:

     "No silver saints by dying misers given,
      Here brib'd the rage of ill-requited heaven."

"Acis and Galatea."--Is there any good evidence in support of the commonly received opinion
that the words to Handel's Acis and Galatea were written by Gay? Hawkins merely states that
they "are said to have been written by Mr. Gay." I have no copy of Burney at hand to refer
to; but I find the same statement repeated by various other musical historians, without, however,
any authority being given for it. The words in question are not to be found among the Poems
on several Occasions, by Mr. John Gay, published in 1767 by Tonson and others. Have they ever
been included in any collective edition of his works?

G. T.

Reading.

    [In the musical catalogue of the British Museum, compiled by Thomas
    Oliphant, Esq., it is stated that the words to Acis and Galatea "are
    said to be written, but apparently partly compiled, by John Gay." This
    serenata is included among Gay's Poems in Dr. Johnson's edition of
    the English Poets, 1790, as well as in Chalmers's edition of 1810,
    and in the complete edition of British Poets, Edinburgh, 1794.]

Birm-bank.--The bank of a canal opposite to the towing-path is called the birm-bank. What is
the derivation of this?

UNEDA.

Philadelphia.

    [The word birm seems to have the same meaning as berme (Fr. berme),
    which, in Fortification, denotes a piece of ground of three, four, or
    five feet in width, left between the rampart and the moat or foss,
    designed to receive the ruins of the rampart, and prevent the earth
    from filling the foss. Sometimes it is palisaded, and in Holland is
    generally planted with quickset hedge.]

General Thomas Gage.--This officer commanded at Boston at the breaking out of the Revolution,
and served under General Braddock. Where can I find any details of the remainder of his history?

SERVIENS.

    [An interesting biographical account of General Gage is given in the
    Georgian Æra, vol. ii. p. 67.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

RAPPING NO NOVELTY.

(Vol. viii., pp. 512. 632.)

The story referred to is certainly a very curious one, and I should like to
know whether it is exactly as it was told by Baxter, especially as there
seems to be reason for believing that De Foe (whom on other grounds one
would not trust in such a matter) did not take it from the work which he
quotes. His
    brother has often told it me, and brought his wife, a discreet woman,
    to attest it, who avers moreover, that as she watched him, she has seen
    his shoes under the bed taken up, and nothing visible to touch them.
    They brought the man himself to me, and when we asked {13} him how he
    dare sin again after such a warning, he had no excuse. But being
    persons of quality, for some special reason of worldly interest I must
    not name him.'"--De Foe's Life of Duncan Campbell, 2nd ed. p. 107.

After this story, De Foe says:

    "Another relation of this kind was sent to Dr. Beaumont (whom I myself
    personally knew, and which he has inserted in his account of genii, or
    familiar spirits) in a letter by an ingenious and learned clergyman of
    Wiltshire," &c.

But he does not say that the story which he has already quoted as from Baxter stands just as
he has given it, and with a reference to Baxter, in Beaumont's Historical, Physiological, and
Theological Treatise of Spirits, p. 182. Of course one does not attach any weight to De Foe's
saying that he knew Dr. Beaumont "personally," but does anybody know anything of him? Nearly
four years ago you inserted somewhat similar inquiry about this Duncan Campbell, but I believe
it has not yet been answered.

S. R. MAITLAND.

       *       *       *       *       *

OCCASIONAL FORMS OF PRAYER.

(Vol. viii., p. 535.)

From a volume of Forms of Prayer in the library of Sir Robert Taylor's Institution, I send
you the following list, as supplementary to MR. LATHBURY'S. This volume forms part of a collection
of books bequeathed to the University by the late Robert Finch, M.A., formerly of Baliol College:

    A Form of Prayer for a General Fast, &c. 4to. London. 1762.

In both the Morning and Evening Services of this Form "A Prayer for the Reformed Churches"
is included, which is omitted in all the subsequent Forms. This is a copy of it:

    "A Prayer for the Reformed Churches.

    "O God, the Father of Mercies, we present our Supplications unto Thee,
    more especially on behalf of our Reformed Brethren, whom, blessed be
    Thy Name, Thou hast hitherto wonderfully supported. Preserve the Tranquillity of those who at
    present enjoy it: look down with compassion upon such as are persecuted
    for Righteousness' sake, and plead Thy cause with the oppressors of Thy
    people. Enlighten those who are in Darkness and Error; and give them
    Repentance to the Acknowledgment of the Truth: that all the Ends of the
    World may remember themselves, and be turned unto the Lord; and we all
    may become one Flock, under the great Shepherd and Bishop of our Souls,
    Jesus Christ, our only Mediator and Advocate. Amen."

    Form, &c. Fast. 1776.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1778.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1780.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1781.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1782.

    A Prayer to be used on Litany Days before the Litany, and on other days
    immediately before the Prayer for all Conditions of Men, in all
    Cathedral, Collegiate, and Parochial Churches and Chapels, &c., during
    his Majesty's present Indisposition. 1788.

The following MS. note is inserted in the handwriting of Mr. Finch, father of the gentleman
who bequeathed the collection:

    "Mrs. Finch accompanied my Father (Rev. Dr. Finch, Rector of St.
    Michael's, Cornhill) to the Cathedral, where he had a seat for himself
    and his lady assigned him under the Dome, as Treasurer to the Society
    for Promoting Christian Knowledge, the original patrons of the Charity
    Schools. Mrs. F. was so fortunate as to obtain a seat in the choir, and
    saw the procession from the choir gate. Myself and Robert saw the
    cavalcade (which was extremely grand, and continued for the space of
    more than three hours, both Houses of Parliament with their attendants
    preceding their Majesties) from Mrs Townsend's house in Fleet
    Street."--April 23, 1789.

    Form of Prayer and Thanksgiving for the King's Recovery. 1789.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1793.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1795.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1796.

    Form of Prayer and Thanksgiving for many signal and important
    Victories. 1797.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1798.

    Form of Prayer and Thanksgiving for the Victory of the Nile, &c. 1798.

    Form of Prayer and Thanksgiving for the Victory over the French Fleet,
    Aug. 1. 1798.

    Form of Prayer and Thanksgiving for the safe Delivery of H. R. H. the
    Princess of Wales, and the birth of a Princess. 1796.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1799.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1800.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1801.

    Form and Thanksgiving for the Harvest. 1801.

    Form and Thanksgiving for putting an End to the War. 1802.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1803.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1804.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1805.

    Form of Prayer and Thanksgiving for Lord Nelson's Victory. 1805.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1806.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1807.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1808.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1809.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1810.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1812.

    Form, &c. Thanksgiving for the Peace. 1814.

    Form, &c. Thanksgiving for the Peace. 1816.

JOHN MACRAY.

Oxford.

       *       *       *       *       *

{14}

CELTIC AND LATIN LANGUAGES.

(Vol. viii., p. 174.)

There was a Query some time ago upon this subject, but though it is one full of interest to
all scholars, I have not observed any Notes worth mentioning in reply. The connexion between
these two languages has only of late occupied the attention of philologers; but the more closely
they are compared together, the more important and the more striking do the resemblances appear;
and the remark of Arnold with regard to Greek literature applies equally to Latin, "that we
seem now to have reached that point in our knowledge of the language, at which other languages
of the same family must be more largely studied, before we can make a fresh step in advance."
But this study, as regards the comparison of Celtic and Latin, is, in England at least, in
a very infant state. Professor Newman, in his Regal Rome, has attention to the subject; but
his induction does not appear sufficiently extensive to warrant any decisive conclusion respecting
the position the Celtic holds as an element of the Latin. Pritchard's work upon the subject
is satisfactory as far as it goes, but both these authors have chiefly confined themselves
to a tabular view of Celtic and Latin words; but it is not merely this we want. What is required
is a critical examination into the comparative structure and formal development of the two
languages, and this is a work still to be accomplished. The later numbers of Bopp's Comparative
Grammar are, I believe, devoted to this subject, but as they have not been translated, they
must be confined to a limited circle of English readers, and I have not yet seen any reproduction
of the views therein contained in the philological literature of England.

As the first step to considerations of this kind must be made from a large induction of words,
I think, with your correspondent, that the pages of "N. & Q." might be made useful in supplying
"links of connexion" to supply a groundwork for future comparison. I shall conclude by suggesting
one or two "links" that I do not remember to have seen elsewhere.

1. Is the root of felix to be found in the Irish fail, fate; the contraction of the dipththong
ai or ê being analogous to that of amaïmus into amêmus?

2. Is it not probable that Avernus, if not corrupted from [Greek: aornos], is related to iffrin,
the Irish inferi? This derivation is at any rate more probable than that of Grotefend, who
connects the word with [Greek: Acherôn].

3. Were the Galli, priests of Cybele, so called as being connected with fire-worship? and is
the name at all connected with the Celtic gal, a flame? The word Gallus, a Gaul, is of course
the same as the Irish gal, a stranger.

T. H. T.

       *       *       *       *       *

GEOMETRICAL CURIOSITY.

(Vol. viii., p. 468.)

MR. INGLEBY'S question might easily be the foundation of a geometrical paper; but as this would
not be a desirable contribution, I will endeavour to keep clear of technicalities, in pointing
out how the process described may give something near to a circle, or may not.

When a paper figure, bent over a straight line in it, has the two parts perfectly fitting on
each other, the figure is symmetrical about that straight line, which may be called an axis
of symmetry. Thus every diameter of a circle is an axis of symmetry: every regular oval has
two axes of symmetry at right angles to each other: every regular polygon of an odd number
of sides has an axis joining each corner to the middle of the opposite sides: every regular
polygon of an even number of sides has axes joining opposite corners, and axes joining the
middles of opposite sides.

When a piece of paper, of any form whatsoever, rectilinear or curvilinear, is doubled over
any line in it, and when all the parts of either side which are not covered by the other are
cut away, the unfolded figure will of course have the creased line for an axis of symmetry.
If another line be now creased, and a fold made over it, and the process repeated, the second
line becomes an axis of symmetry, and the first perhaps ceases to be one. If the process be
then repeated on the first line, this last becomes an axis, and the other (probably) ceases
to be an axis. If this process can be indefinitely continued, the cuttings must become smaller
and smaller, for the following reason. Suppose, at the outset, the boundary point nearest to
the intersection of the axes is distant from that intersection by, say four inches; it is clear
that we cannot, after any number of cuttings, have a part of the boundary at less than four
inches from the intersection. For there never is, after any cutting, any approach to the intersection
except what there already was on the other side of the axis employed, before that cutting was
made. If then the cuttings should go on for ever, or practically until the pieces to be cut
off are too small, and if this take place all round, the figure last obtained will be a good
representation of a circle of four inches radius. On the suppositions, we must be always cutting
down, at all parts of the boundary; but it has been shown that we can never come nearer than
by four inches to the intersection of the axes.

But it does not follow that the process will go on for ever. We may come at last to a state
in which both the creases are axes of symmetry at once; and then the process stops. If the
paper had at first a curvilinear boundary, properly chosen, and if the axes were placed at
the proper angle, it would happen that we should arrive at a {15} regular curved polygon, having
the two axes for axes of symmetry. The process would then stop.

I will, however, suppose that the original boundary is everywhere rectilinear. It is clear
then that, after every cutting, the boundary is still rectilinear. If the creases be at right
angles to one another, the ultimate figure may be an irregular polygon, having its four quarters
alike, such as may be inscribed in an oval; or it may have its sides so many and so small,
that the ultimate appearance shall be that of an oval. But if the creases be not at right angles,
the ultimate figure is a perfectly regular polygon, such as can be inscribed in a circle; or
its sides may be so many and so small that the ultimate appearance shall be that of a circle.

Suppose, as in MR. INGLEBY'S question, that the creases are not at right angles to each other;
supposing the eye and the scissors perfect, the results will be as follows:

First, suppose the angle made by the creases to be what the mathematicians call incommensurable
with the whole revolution; that is, suppose that no repetition of the angle will produce an
exact number of revolutions. Then the cutting will go on for ever, and the result will perpetually
approach a circle. It is easily shown that no figure whatsoever, except a circle, has two axes
of symmetry which make an angle incommensurable with the whole revolution.

Secondly, suppose the angle of the creases commensurable with the revolution. Find out the
smallest number of times which the angle must be repeated to give an exact number of revolutions.
If that number be even, it is the number of sides of the ultimate polygon: if that number be
odd, it is the half of the number of sides of the ultimate polygon.

Thus, the paper on which I write, the whole sheet being taken, and the creases made by joining
opposite corners, happens to give the angle of the creases very close to three-fourteenths
of a revolution; so that fourteen repetitions of the angle is the lowest number which give
an exact number of revolutions; and a very few cuttings lead to a regular polygon of fourteen
sides. But if four-seventeenths of a revolution had been taken for the angle of the creases,
the ultimate polygon would have had thirty-four sides. In an angle taken at hazard the chances
are that the number of ultimate sides will be large enough to present a circular appearance.

Any reader who chooses may amuse himself by trying results from three or more axes, whether
all passing through one point or not.

A. DE MORGAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BLACK-GUARD.

(Vol. viii., p. 414.)

Some of your correspondents, SIR JAMES E. TENNENT especially, have been very learned on this
subject, and all have thrown new light on what I consider a very curious inquiry. The following
document I discovered some years ago in the Lord Steward's Offices. Your readers will see its
value at once; but it may not be amiss to observe, that the name in its present application
had its origin in the number of masterless boys hanging about the verge of the Court and other
public places, palaces, coal-cellars, and palace stables; ready with links to light coaches
and chairs, and conduct, and rob people on foot, through the dark streets of London; nay, to
follow the Court in its progresses to Windsor and Newmarket. Pope's "link-boys vile" are the
black-guard boys of the following Proclamation.

PETER CUNNINGHAM.

At the Board of Green Cloth, in Windsor Castle, this 7th day of May, 1683.

Whereas of late a sort of vicious, idle, and masterless boyes and rogues, commonly called the
Black-guard, with divers other lewd and loose fellowes, vagabonds, vagrants, and wandering
men and women, do usually haunt and follow the Court, to the great dishonour of the same, and
as Wee are informed have been the occasion of the late dismall fires that happened in the towns
of Windsor and Newmarket, and have, and frequently do commit divers other misdemeanours and
disorders in such places where they resort, to the prejudice of His Majesty's subjects, for
the prevention of which evills and misdemeanours hereafter, Wee do hereby strictly charge and
command all those so called the Black-guard as aforesaid, with all other loose, idle, masterless
men, boyes, rogues, and wanderers, who have intruded themselves into His Majesty's Court or
stables, that within the space of twenty-four houres next after the publishing of this order,
they depart, upon pain of imprisonment, and such other punishments as by law are to be inflicted
on them.

  (Signed)
          ORMOND.
          H. BULKELEY.
          H. BROUNCKER.
          RICH. MASON.
          STE. FOX.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CALVES' HEAD CLUB.

(Vol. viii., pp. 315. 480.)

The Calves' Head Club existed much earlier than the time when their doings were commemorated
in the Weekly Oracle (Vol. viii., p. 315.) of February 1, 1735, or depicted in the print of
1734 (Vol. viii., p. 480.). There is a pamphlet, {16} the second edition of which was published
in small 4to., in 1703, entitled:

    "The Secret History of the Calves' Head Club, or, the Republican
    Unmasqu'd, wherein is fully shewn the Religion of the Calves-Head
    Heroes in their Anniversary Thanksgiving Songs on the Thirtieth of
    January, by their Anthems," &c. &c.

We are told in the latter part of the long title-page that the work was published "to demonstrate
the restless, inplacable spirit of a certain party still among us," and certainly the statements
therein, and more than all the anthems at the end, do show the bitterest hatred--so bitter,
so intense and malignant, that we feel on reading it that there must be some exaggeration.

The author professes to have at first been of opinion "that the story was purely contrived
on purpose to render the republicans more odious than they deserv'd." Whether he was convinced
to the contrary by ocular demonstration he does not tell us, but gives us information he received
from a gentleman--

    "Who, about eight years ago, went out of meer curiosity to see their
    Club, and has since furnish'd me with the following papers. I was
    inform'd that it was kept in no fix'd house, but that they remov'd as
    they saw convenient; that the place they met in when he was with 'em
    was in a blind ally, about Morefields; that the company wholly
    consisted of Independents and Anabaptists (I am glad for the honour of
    the Presbyterians to set down this remark); that the famous Jerry
    White, formerly Chaplain to Oliver Cromwell, who no doubt on't came to
    sanctify with his pious exhortations the Ribbaldry of the Day, said
    Grace; that after the table-cloth was removed, the anniversary anthem,
    as they impiously called it, was sung, and a calve's skull fill'd with
    wine, or other liquor, and then a brimmer went about to the pious
    memory of those worthy patriots that kill'd the tyrant, and deliver'd
    their country from arbitrary sway; and lastly, a collection made for
    the mercenary scribler, to which every man contributed according to his
    zeal for the cause, or the ability of his purse.

    "I have taken care to set down what the gentleman told me as faithfully
    as my memory wou'd give me leave; and I am persuaded that some persons
    that frequent the Black Boy in Newgate Street, as they knew the author
    of the following lines so they knew this account of the Calves' Head
    Club to be true."

The anthems for the years 1693, 1694, 1695, 1696, and 1697, are given; but they are too long
and too stupidly blasphemous and indecent to quote here. They seem rather the satires of malignant
cavaliers than the serious productions of any Puritan, however politically or theologically
heretical.

EDWARD PEACOCK.

Bottesford Moors.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

The Calotype Process.--I have made any first essay in the calotype process, following DR. DIAMOND'S
directions given in "N. & Q.," and using Turner's paper, as recommended by him. My success
has been quite as great as I could expect as a novice, and satisfies me that any defects are
due to my own want of skill, and not to any fault in the directions given. I wish, however,
to ask a question as to iodizing the paper. DR. DIAMOND says, lay the paper on the solution;
then immediately remove it, and lay on the dry side on blotting-paper, &c. Now I find, if I
remove immediately, the whole sheet of paper curls up into a roll, and is quite unmanageable.
I want to know, therefore, whether there is any objection to allowing the paper to remain on
the iodizing solution until it lies flat on it, so that on removal it will not curl, and may
be easily and conveniently laid on the dry side to pass the glass rod over it. As soon as the
paper is floated on the solution (I speak of Turner's) it has a great tendency to curl, and
takes some time before the expansion of both surfaces becoming equal allows it to lie quite
flat on the liquid. May this operation be performed by the glass rod, without floating at all?

Photographers, like myself, at a distance from practical instruction, are so much obliged for
plain and simple directions such as those given by DR. DIAMOND, which are the result of experience,
that I am sure he will not mind being troubled with a few inquiries relative to them.

C. E. F.

Hockin's Short Sketch.--Mr. Hockin is so well known as a thoroughly practical chemist, that
it may suffice to call attention to the fact of his having published a little brochure entitled
How to obtain Positive and Negative Pictures on Collodionized Glass, and copy the latter upon
Paper. A Short Sketch adapted for the Tyro in Photography. As the question of the alkalinity
of the nitrate bath is one which has lately been discussed, we will give, as a specimen of
Mr. Hockin's book, a quotation, showing his opinion upon that question:

    "The sensitizing agent, nitrate of silver in crystals, not the
    ordinary fused in sticks, is nearly always confessedly adulterated; it
    is thus employed:

    "The silver or nitrate bath.--Nitrate of silver five drachms,
    distilled water ten ounces; dissolve and add iodized collodion two
    drachms.

    "Shake these well together, allow them to macerate twelve hours, and
    filter through paper. Before adding the nitric acid, test the liquid
    with a piece of blue litmus paper; if it remain blue after being
    immersed one minute, add one drop of dilute nitric acid[3], and test
    again for a minute; and so on, until a claret red is indicated on the
    paper. It is necessary to test the bath in a similar manner, frequently
    adding half a drop to a drop of dilute acid when required. This
    precaution will prevent the fogging due to alkalinity of the bath, so
    formidable an obstacle to young hands."

[Footnote 3: "Dilute nitric acid.--Water fifty parts, nitric acid one part."]

Photographic Society's Exhibition.--The Photographic Society opened their first Exhibition
of {17} Photographs and Daguerreotypes at the Gallery of the Society of British Artists, in
Suffolk Street, with a soirée on Tuesday evening last. Notwithstanding the inclemency of the
weather, the rooms were crowded not only by members of the Society, but by many of the most
distinguished literary and scientific men of the metropolis. The Queen and Prince Albert had,
in the course of the morning, spent three hours in an examination of the collection; and the
opinion they expressed, that the exhibition was one of great interest and promise, from the
evidence it afforded of the extraordinary advance made by the art during the past year, and
the encouragement it held out to the belief that far greater excellence might therefore still
be looked for in it, was a very just one, and embodied that given afterwards by the most competent
authorities. We have not room this week to enter into any details, but can confidently recommend
our readers to pay an early visit to Suffolk Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

"Firm was their faith," &c. (Vol. viii., p. 564.).--These lines are to be found in a poem called
"Morwennæ Statio, hodie Morwenstow," published by Masters in 1846, with the title of Echoes
from Old Cornwall, and written by the Vicar of Morwenstow. I agree with D. M. in the judgment
he has announced as to their merits; but hitherto they have been but little appreciated by
the public. A time will come however, when these and other compositions of the author will
be better known and more duly valued by the English mind.

SAXA.

These lines were written on "the Minster of Morwenna," May, 1840, and appeared in the British
Magazine under the anonymous name Procul. Of the eight stanzas of which the poem consists,
P. M. has quoted the second. The second line should be read "wise of heart," and the third
"firm and trusting hands." With your correspondent, I hope the author's name may be discovered.

F. R. R.

Vellum-cleaning (Vol. viii., p.340.).--In the Polytechnic Institution there are specimens of
old deeds, &c., on vellum and paper, beautifully cleaned and restored by Mr. George Clifford,
5. Inner Temple Lane, Temple, London.

J. McK.

Shoreham.

Wooden Tombs (Vol. viii., p. 255.).--In the church at Brading, Isle of Wight--

    "There are some old tombs in the communion place, and in Sir William
    Oglander's chapel, or family burial-place, which is separated from the
    rest of the church by an oak screen. The most ancient legible date of
    these monuments is 1567. Two of them have full-length figures in armour
    of solid elm wood, originally painted in their proper colours, and
    gilt, but now disfigured by coats of dirty white."--Barber's
    Picturesque Guide to the Isle of Wight, 1850, pp. 28, 29.

J. McK.

Shoreham.

Solar Eclipse in the Year 1263 (Vol. viii., p. 441.).--In the Transactions of the Antiquarian
Society of Scotland, vol. ii. p. 350., there are "Observations on the Norwegian Expedition
against Scotland in the year 1263," by John Dillon, Esq.; and at pp. 363-4, when speaking of
the annular eclipse, he says:

    "The eclipse above mentioned is described to have occurred between
    these two dates [29th July and 9th August]. This being pointed out to
    Dr. Brewster, he had the curiosity to calculate the eclipse, when he
    found that there was an eclipse of the sun on 5th August, 1263, and
    which was annular at Ronaldsvo, in Orkney, and the middle of it was
    twenty-four minutes past one."

These "Observations" contain much curious information; but are deformed by the author attempting
to wrest the text of the Norwegian writer (at p. 358. and in note I.) to suit an absurd crotchet
of his own. Having seen that essay in MS., I pointed out those errors; but instead of attending
to my observations, he would not read them, and got into a passion against the friend who showed
the MS. to me.

J. McK.

Shoreham.

Lines on Woman (Vol. viii., pp. 292. 350. &c.).--The lines on Woman are, I presume, an altered
version of those of Barret (Mrs. Barrett Browning?); they are the finale of a short poem on
Woman; the correct version is the following:

 "Peruse the sacred volume, Him who died
  Her kiss betray'd not, nor her tongue denied;
  While even the Apostle left Him to His doom,
  She linger'd round His cross and watch'd His tomb."

I would copy the whole poem, but fear you would think it too long for insertion.

MA. L.

    [Our correspondent furnishes an addition to our list of parallel
    passages. The lines quoted by W. V. and those now given by our present
    correspondent can never be different readings of the same poem.
    Besides, it has been already shown that the lines asked for are from
    the poem entitled Woman, by Eaton Stannard Barrett (see antè, pp.
    350. 423.).]

Satin (Vol. vii., p. 551.).--In a note just received by me from Canton, an American friend
of mine remarks as follows:

    "When you write again to 'N. & Q.' you can say that the word satin
    (Vol. vii., p. 551.), like the article itself, is of Chinese origin,
    and that other foreign languages, in endeavouring like the English to
    imitate the Chinese sz-tün, have {18} approximated closely to it, and
    to each other. Of this the answers to the Query given in the place
    referred to are a sufficient proof; Fr. satin, W. sidan, &c. &c."

I suspect that he is right, and that Ogilvie and Webster, whom you quote, have not got to the
bottom of the word. I may add that the notion of my Canton friend receives approval from a
Chinese scholar to whom I have shown the above extract.

W. T. M.

Hong Kong.

"Quid facies," &c. (Vol. viii., p. 539.).--

    "BIERVE, N. Maréchal, Marquis de, a Frenchman well known for his
    ready wit and great facetiousness. He wrote two plays of considerable
    merit, Les Réputations and Le Séducteur. He died at Spa, 1789, aged
    42. He is author of the distich on courtezans:

     'Quid facies, facies Veneris cum veneris ante?
      Ne sedeas! sed eas, ne pereas per eas.'"

--Lemprière's Universal Biography, abridged from the larger work, London, 1808.

C. FORBES.

Temple.

Sotades (Vol. viii., p. 520.).--Your correspondent CHARLES REED says that Sotades was a Roman
poet 250 B.C.; and that to him we owe the line, "Roma tibi subito," &c. Sotades was a native
of Maroneia in Thrace, or, according to others, of Crete; and flourished at Alexandria B.C.
280 (Smith's Dictionary of Biography, Clinton, F. H., vol. iii. p. 888.). We have a few fragments
of his poems, but none of them are palindromical. The authority for his having written so,
is, I suppose, Martial, Epig. II. 86. 2.:

 "Nec retro lego Sotaden cinædum."

ZEUS.

The Third Part of "Christabel" (Vol. viii., pp. 11. 111.).--Has the Irish Quarterly Review
any other reason for ascribing this poem to Maginn than the common belief which makes him the
sole and original Morgan Odoherty? If not, its evidence is of little value, as, exclusive of
some pieces under that name which have been avowed by other writers, many of the Odoherty papers
contain palpable internal evidence of having been written by a Scotchman, or at least one very
familiar with Scotland, which at that time he was not; even the letter accompanying the third
part of Christabel is dated from Glasgow, and though this would in itself prove nothing, the
circumstances above mentioned, as well as Dr. Moir's evidence as to the time when Maginn's
contributions to Blackwood commenced, seems strongly presumptive against his claim. Some of
the earliest and most distinguished writers in Blackwood are still alive, and could, no doubt,
clear up this point at once, if so inclined.

J. S. WARDEN.

Attainment of Majority (Vol. viii., pp. 198. 250.).--In my last communication upon this subject
I produced undeniable authority to prove that the law did not regard the fraction of a day;
this, I think, A. E. B. will admit. The question is, now, does the day on which a man attains
his majority commence at six o'clock A.M., or at midnight? We must remember that we are dealing
with a question of English law; and therefore the evidence of an English decision will, I submit,
be stronger proof of the latter mode of reckoning than the only positive proof with which A.
E. B. has defended Ben Jonson's use of the former, viz. Roman.

In a case tried in Michaelmas Term, 1704, Chief Justice Holt said:

    "It has been adjudged that if one be born the 1st of February at eleven
    at night, and the last of January in the twenty-first year of his age
    at one o'clock in the morning, he makes his will of lands and dies, it
    is a good will, for he was then of age."--Salkeld, 44.; Raymond,
    480, 1096; 1 Siderfin, 162.

In this case, therefore, the testator was accounted of age forty-six hours before the completion
of his twenty-first year. Now, the law not regarding the fraction of a day, the above case,
I submit, clearly proves that the day, as regards the attainment of majority, began at midnight.

RUSSELL GOLE.

Lord Halifax and Mrs. C. Barton (Vol. viii., pp. 429. 543.).--In answer to J. W. J.'s Query,
I beg to state that I have in my possession a codicil of Mrs. Conduit's will in her own hand,
dated 26th of January, 1737. This document refers to some theological tracts by Sir Isaac Newton,
in his handwriting, which I have. On referring to the pedigree of the Barton family, I find
that Colonel Robert Barton married Catherine Greenwood, whose father lived at Rotterdam, and
was ancestor of Messrs. Greenwood, army agents. His issue were Major Newton Barton, who married
Elizabeth Ekins, Mrs. Burr, and Catherine Robert Barton. I find no mention of Colonel Noel
Barton. The family of Ekins had been previously connected with that of Barton, Alexander Ekins,
Rector of Barton Segrave, having married Jane Barton of Brigstock. The writer of this note
will be obliged if J. W. J., or any correspondent of "N. & Q.," will inform him if anything
is known respecting an ivory bust of Sir Isaac Newton, executed by Marchand or Marchant, which
is said to have been an excellent likeness.

S. X.

    [The ivory bust referred to by our correspondent is, we believe, in the
    British Museum.]

The fifth Lord Byron (Vol. viii., p. 2.).--I cannot but think that MR. HASLEDEN'S memory has
deceived him as to the "wicked lord" having {19} settled his estates upon the marriage of his
son; how is this to be reconciled with the often published statement, that the marriage of
his son with his cousin Juliana, daughter of the admiral, and aunt of the late and present
lords, was made not only without the consent, but in spite of the opposition, of the old lord,
and that he never forgave his son in consequence?

J. S. WARDEN.

Burton Family (Vol. iv., pp. 22. 124.).--In connexion with a Query which was kindly noticed
by MR. ALGOR of Sheffield, who did not however communicate anything new to me, I would ask
who was Samuel Burton, Esq., formerly Sheriff of Derbyshire; whose death at Sevenoaks, in October,
1750, I find recorded in the Obituary of the Gentleman's Magazine for that year? I am also
desirous to ascertain who was Sir Francis Cavendish Burton of St. Helens, whose daughter and
heiress, Martha, married Richard Sikes, Esq., ancestor of the Sikes's of the Chauntry House
near Newark. She died since 1696. Both Samuel Burton and Mrs. Sikes were related to the Burtons
of Kilburn, in the parish of Horsley, near Derby, to whom my former Query referred.

E. H. A.

Provost Hodgson's Translation of the Atys of Catullus (Vol. viii., p. 563.).--In answer to
MR. GANTILLON'S inquiry for the above translation, I beg to state that it will be found appended
to an octavo edition of Hodgson's poem of Lady Jane Grey.

In the same volume will be found, I believe (for I have not the work before me), some of the
modern Latin poetry respecting which BALLIOLENSIS inquiries. The justly admired translation
of Edwin and Angelina, to which the latter refers, was by Hodgson's too early lost friend Lloyd.
The splendid pentameter is slightly misquoted by BALLIOLENSIS. It is not--

 "Poscimus in terris pauca, nec illa diù."

but--

 "Poscimus in vitâ," &c.

THOMAS RUSSELL POTTER.

Wymeswold, Loughborough.

Wylcotes' Brass (Vol. viii., p. 494.).--I should hardly have supposed that any difficulty could
exist in explaining the inscription:

 "In · on · is · all."

To me it appears self-evident that it must be--

 "In one (God) is my all."

H. C. C.

Hoby, Family of; their Portraits, &c. (Vol. viii., p. 244.).--I would refer J. B. WHITBORNE
to The Antiquities of Berkshire (so miscalled), by Elias Ashmole; where, in treating of Bisham,
that learned antiquary has given the inscriptions to the Hoby family as existing and legible
in his time. It does not appear that Sir Philip Hoby, or Hobbie, Knight, was ever of the Privy
Council; but, in 1539, one of the Gentlemen of the Privy Chamber to King Henry VIII. (which
monarch granted to him in 1546-7 the manor of Willoughby in Edmonton, co. Middlesex), Sir Thomas
Hoby, the brother, and successor in the estates of Sir Philip, was, in 1566, ambassador to
France; and died at Paris July 13 in the same year (not 1596), aged thirty-six. The coat of
the Hobys of Bisham, as correctly given, is "Argent, within a border engrailed sable, three
spindles, threaded in fesse, gules." A grant or confirmation of this coat was made by Sir Edward
Bysshe, Clarenceux, to Peregrine Hoby of Bisham, Berks, natural son of Sir Edward Hoby, Nov.
17, 1664. The Bisham family bore no crest nor motto.

H. C. C.

The Keate Family (Vol. viii., pp. 293. 525.)--Should the Query of G. B. B. not be sufficiently
answered by the extract from Mr. Burke's Extinct and Dormant Baronetcies of England relating
to the Keate family, as I have a full pedigree of that surname, I may perhaps be able, on application,
to satisfy him with some genealogical particulars which are not noticed in Mr. Burke's works.

H. C. C.

Sir Charles Cotterell (Vol viii., p. 564.).--Sir Charles Cotterell, the translator of Cassandra,
died in 1687. (See Fuller's Worthies, by Nuttall, vol. ii. p. 309.)

[Greek: Halieus].

Dublin.

Huc's Travels (Vol. viii., p. 516.).--Not having seen the Gardener's Chronicle, in which C.
W. B. says the travels of Messrs. Huc and Gabet in Thibet, Tartary, &c. are said to be a pure
fabrication, concocted by some Parisian littérateur, I cannot know what degree of credit, if
any, is to be given to such a statement. All I wish to communicate at present for the information
of your Querist C. W. B. is this, that I have read an account and abstract of Messrs. Huc and
Gabet's Travels in one of the ablest and best conducted French reviews, La Revue des Deux Mondes;
in which not the least suspicion of fabrication is hinted, or the slightest doubt expressed
as to the genuineness of these Travels. Mr. Princep, also, in his work on Thibet, Tartary,
&c. quotes largely from Huc's Travel's, and avails himself extensively of the information contained
in them with reference to Buddhism, &c.

Should the writer in the Gardener's Chronicle have it in his power to prove the Travels to
be a fabrication, he will confer a benefit on the world of letters by unmasking the fabricator.

J. M.

Oxford.

Pictures at Hampton Court Palace (Vol. viii., p. 538.).--In reply to [Phi].'s question when
the review of the 10th Light Dragoons by King {20} George III., after the Prince of Wales assumed
the command of that regiment, I beg to state that the Prince entered the army as brevet-colonel,
Nov. 19, 1782; that the regiment received the title of "The Prince of Wales's own Regiment
of Light Dragoons" on Michaelmas Day, 1783: that the regiment was stationed in the south of
England and in the vicinity of London for many years, from 1790 to 1803 inclusive; and that
King George III. repeatedly reviewed it, accompanied by the queen and the royal family. That
the Prince of Wales was appointed Colonel-commandant of the corps in 1793, and succeeded Sir
W. A. Pitt as colonel of it in July 18, 1796. That the regiment was reviewed on Hounslow Heath
by the King in August, 1799; and the Prince of Wales (who commanded it in person) received
his Majesty's orders to convey his Majesty's approbation of its excellent appearance and performance.
Perhaps the picture by Sir William Beechey was painted in 1799, and not 1798. I did not find
the catalogue at Hampton Court free from errors, when I last visited the palace in October, 1852.

M. A.

Pembroke College, Oxon.

John Waugh (Vol. viii., pp. 271. 400. 525.).--Does KARLEOLENSIS know whether John Waugh, son
of Waugh, Bishop of Carlisle, was married, and to whom?

Farther information of the above family would be most acceptable, and thankfully acknowledged,
by George Waugh, of the family of the Waughs of Oulton and Lofthouse, Yorkshire.

Exeter.

Daughters taking their Mothers' Names (Vol. viii., p. 586.).--When BURIENSIS asks for instances
of this, and mentions "Alicia, daughter of Ada," as an example, is he not mistaking, or following
some one else who has mistaken, the gender of the parent's name? Alicia fil. Adæ would be rendered
"Alice Fitz-Adam," unless there be anything in the context to determine the gender otherwise.

J. SANSOM.

"Service is no Inheritance" (Vol. viii., p. 586.).--This proverbial saying has evidently arisen
from the old manorial right, under which the lord of the manor claimed suit and service and
fealty before admitting the heir to his inheritance, or the purchaser to his purchase. On which
occasion, the party admitted to the estate, whether purchaser or heir, "fecit fidelitatem suam
et solvit relevium;" the relief being generally a year's rent or service.

ANON.

Sir Christopher Wren and the young Carver (Vol. viii., p. 340.).--If your correspondent A.
H. has not already appropriated the anecdote here alluded to, I think I can confidently refer
him to any biographical notice of Grindling Gibbons--to whom the story of the "Sow and Pigs"
relates. Gibbons was recommended to Sir Christopher by Evelyn, I think; but not having "made
a note of it," I am not sure that it is to be found in his Diary.[4] If there be any monograph
Life of Gibbons, it can scarcely fail to be found there.

M. (2)

[Footnote 4: See Evelyn's Diary, vol. ii. pp. 53, 54., edition 1850.--ED.]

Souvaroff's Despatch (Vol. viii., p. 490).--Souvaroff's doggerel despatch from Ismail, immortalised
by Byron, is, as usual, misspelt and mistranslated. Allow me to furnish you with what I have
never yet seen in English, a correct version of it:

 "Slava Bogou, slava Vam;
  Krépost vziala, ee ya tam."

 "Glory to God, glory to You,
  The fortress is taken, and I am there."

DMITRI ANDRÉEF.

Detached Church Towers (Vol. viii., p. 63.).--In the lists I have seen no mention is made of
the fine tower of West Walton Church, which stands at a distance of nearly twenty yards from
the body of the church.

W. B. D.

Lynn.

Queen Anne's Motto (Vol. viii., p. 174.).--The Historical Society of Pennsylvania is in possession
of an English coat of arms, painted on wood in the time of Queen Anne, having "Anna R." at
the top, and the motto Semper eadem on the scroll below. It probably was in one of the Philadelphia
court-rooms, and was taken down at the Revolution.

UNEDA.

Philadelphia.

Lawyers' Bags (Vol. vii. passim).--The communication of MR. KERSLEY, in p. 557., although it
does not support the inference which COL. LANDMAN draws, that the colour of lawyers' bags was
changed in consequence of the unpopularity which it acquired at the trial of Queen Caroline,
seems to show that green was at one time the colour of those professional pouches. The question
still remains, when and on what occasion it was discontinued; and when the purple, and when
the crimson, were introduced? I do not know whether the same custom prevailed in the other courts.

CAUSIDICUS.

In this city (Philadelphia) lawyers formerly carried green bags. The custom has declined of
late years among the members of the legal profession, and it has been taken up by journeymen
boot and shoe makers, who thus carry their work to and from the workshop. A green bag is now
the badge of a cordwainer in this city.

[Old English W].

Philadelphia.

Bust of Luther (Vol. viii., p. 335.).--MR. J. G. FITCH asks for information respecting a bust
of Luther, with an inscription, on the wall of a house, in the Dom Platz at Frankfort on the
Maine. I have learned, through a German acquaintance, who has resided the greater part of his
life in that city, that the effigy was erected to commemorate the event of Luther's having,
during a short stay in Frankfort, preached near that spot; and that the words surrounding the
bust were his text on the occasion. He adds that Luther at no period of his life "lived for
some years" at Frankfort, as stated by MR. FITCH.

ALFRED SMITH.

Grammar in relation to Logic (Vol. viii., pp. 514. 629.).--H. C. K.'s remarks are of course
indisputable. But it is a mistake to suppose that they answer my Query. In fact, had your correspondent
taken the trouble to consider the meaning of my Query, he could not have failed to perceive
that the explanation I there gave of the function of the conjunction in logic, is the same
as his. My Query had sole reference to grammar. I would also respectfully suggest that anonymous
correspondents should not impute "superficial views," or any other disagreeable thing, to those
who stand confessed, without abandoning the pseudonym.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

Mr. Timbs announces for publication by subscription, Curiosities of London: exhibiting the
most rare and remarkable Objects of Interest in the Metropolis. Mr. Timbs states, the authorities
for his work have been four-and-twenty years in collection; and that the utmost pains has been
taken to verify names, dates, and circumstances, so as to insure accuracy. In this labour the
author has been aided by the communications of many obliging friends, as well as by his own
recollection of nearly fifty years' changes in the aspects of "opulent, enlarged, and still
increasing London."

It is proposed to publish by subscription The Visitation of the County of Northumberland, taken
by Richard St. George, Esq., Norroy King of Arms, and Henry St. George, Esq., Blue Mantle Pursuivant
of Arms, A.D. 1615. To be printed in tables on folio, with the arms engraved on wood, price
One Guinea; or large paper, royal folio, Two Guineas; or large paper with the arms emblazoned
(of which only the number subscribed for will be done), Five Guineas. Subscribers' names will
be received by Mr. John Gray Bell, No. 17. Bedford Street, Covent Garden.

The first number of the Antiquities of Shropshire, by the Rev. R. W. Eyton, has just been issued
for the sake of determining the author's doubts as to whether there is any general wish for
such a publication. Should the answer be in the negative, the author will neither forget his
obligation to present subscribers, nor the explanation which he will farther owe them if the
work be discontinued. The work will extend at least to five volumes, or twenty parts, and,
according to the present plan, will be completed in not less than five years. Any subscriber
will be at liberty to withdraw his name, by giving notice to that effect within one month after
the publication of any fourth part, or completed volume. Three hundred copies of Part I. have
been printed, but the number of the future parts will be limited to those subscribed for within
the next three months.

The Surrey Archæological Society propose holding the Inaugural General Meeting of the Society
in Southwark early in the month of February, and to exhibit upon the occasion a collection
of such objects of antiquarian interest relating to Surrey as may be contributed for that purpose.
Parties are invited to favour the Society with the loan of such objects.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--A Peep at the Pixies, or Legends of the West, by Mrs. Bray: written for the
entertainment of a family circle, these amusing records of the doings of the little people
will find favour with all lovers of folk lore.--Ada's Thoughts, or the Poetry of Youth, may
be commended for its natural, simple, yet elevated tone.--Essay on Human Happiness, by C. B.
Adderley, M.P.; the first of a series of Great Truths for Thoughtful Hours. A set of little
books similar in object and design to Pickering's well-known series of Small Books on Great
Subjects.--Beauties of Byron, Verse and Prose. This selection, made for Murray's Railway Reading,
will be acceptable to many who would object to place the collected edition of the noble bard's
writings in the hands of the younger members of their family.--Speeches on Parliamentary Reform,
by the Right Hon. T. B. Macaulay. This new number of Longman's Traveller's Library is well-timed,
and very acceptable. 8vo. 1833.

JUNIUS DISCOVERED, by P. T. Published about 1789.

  Wanted by William J. Thoms, 25. Holywell Street, Millbank, Westminster.

{22}

GALLERY OF PORTRAITS. Published by Charles Knight, under the Superintendence of the Society
for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. No. XLIII. (December, 1835), containing Adam Smith,
Calvin, Mansfield.

  Wanted by Charles Forbes, 3. Elm Court, Temple.

BRISTOL DROLLERY. 1674.

HOLBORN DROLLERY. 1673.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notices to Correspondents.

Among other interesting communications intended for our present Number, but which we have been
compelled by want of space to postpone until next week, are MR. GUTCH's Paper on Griffin and
his Fidessa, MR. D'ALTON's on James II.'s Irish Army List, and DR. DIAMOND's on The Advantages
of Small Photographs.

CESTRIENSIS. We have a letter for this Correspondent; where shall it be sent?

EIRIONNACH. The letter for this Correspondent has been forwarded.

W. J. L. The Merry Llyd or Hewid has already formed the subject of some notices in our columns:
see Vol. i., pp. 173. 315.; Vol. vi., p. 410. We should be glad to have any satisfactory explanation
of the origin and antiquity of the custom.

J. E. (Sampford) is informed that there is no charge for the insertion of Queries, &c. Will
he oblige us by describing the communications to which he refers?

F. S. A., who asks the origin of tick, is referred to Vol. iii., pp. 357. 409. 502.

IGNORANT. The Staffordshire Knot is the badge or cognizance of the Earls of Stafford: see Vol.
viii., p. 454.

J. S. A. will find the information he desires respecting the Extraordinary North Briton in
a valuable communication from MR. CROSSLEY, "N. & Q.," Vol. iii., p. 432.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE FOR JANUARY (being the First Part of a new Volume) contains the following
articles:--1. The Princess (afterwards Queen) Elizabeth a Prisoner at Woodstock. 2. On supposed
Apparitions of the Virgin Mary; and particularly at La Salette. 3. Sir Walter Raleigh at Sherborne.
4. Manners and Morals of the University of Cambridge during the last Century. 5. English Sketches
by Foreign Artists--Max Schlesinger's Saunterings in and about London. 6. Richard Baxter's
Pulpit at Kidderminster (with a Plate). 7. Cambridge Improvements, 1853. 8. The Toxaris of
Lucian. Correspondence of Sylvanus Urban: English Physicians in Russia--Knights Banneret--Sir
Constantine Phipps and Sir William Phips--Diaries of Dr. Stukeley, &c. With Notes of the Month;
Historical and Miscellaneous Reviews; Reports of Antiquarian and Literary Societies; Historical
Chronicle; and OBITUARY, including Memoirs of the Queen of Portugal, the Duke of Beaufort,
the Countess of Newburgh, Lord Cloncurry, Rear-Adm. Pasco, Bickham Escott, Esq., Wm. Gardiner,
Esq., Mrs. Opie, Mr. Jas. Trubshaw, C.E., Mr. Samuel Williams, &c. &c. Price 2s. 6d.

NICHOLS & SONS, 25. Parliament Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, price 2s. 6d., sewed,

A LECTURE ON THE GENIUS, LIFE AND CHARACTER OF WILLIAM SHAKSPEARE, delivered to the Mutual
Improvement Society of Welford, by FREDERICK COX, ESQ., one of the Vice-Presidents of the Society.

  GEORGE BELL, London.
  T. C. BROWNE, Leicester.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just published, 12mo., 4s.

JANUS, LAKE POEMS, &c., and other Poems, by DAVID HOLT.

London: W. PICKERING, Piccadilly; and GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Demy 8vo., 2s.; cloth gilt, 3s. By B. H. COWPER.

R. GLADDING, 97. & 98. Whitechapel Road.

       *       *       *       *       *

JUST PUBLISHED.--A CATALOGUE of VALUABLE BOOKS, including a portion of the Library of the RIGHT
HON. WARREN HASTINGS, now on Sale by THOMAS KERSLAKE, Bookseller, Bristol.

       *       *       *       *       *

PULLEYN'S COMPENDIUM.

One Volume, crown 8vo., bound in cloth, price 6s.

THE ETYMOLOGICAL COMPENDIUM; or, PORTFOLIO OF ORIGINS AND INVENTIONS: relating to

  Language, Literature, and Government.
  Architecture and Sculpture.
  Drama, Music, Painting, and Scientific Discoveries.
  Articles of Dress, &c.
  Titles, Dignities, &c.
  Names, Trades, Professions.
  Parliament, Laws, &c.
  Universities and Religious Sects.
  Epithets and Phrases.
  Remarkable Customs.
  Games, Field Sports.
  Seasons, Months, and Days of the Week.
  Remarkable Localities, &c. &c.

By WILLIAM PULLEYN.

The Third Edition, revised and improved,

By MERTON A. THOMS, ESQ.

    "The additions to this book indicate the editor to be his father's own
    son. He deals in folk lore, chronicles old customs and popular sayings,
    and has an eye to all things curious and note-worthy. The book tells
    everything."--Gentleman's Magazine.

    "The book contains a vast amount of curious information and useful
    memoranda."--Literary Gazette.

    "An invaluable manual of amusement and information."--Morning
    Chronicle.

    "This is a work of great practical usefulness. It is a Notes and
    Queries in miniature.... The revision which the present edition of it
    has undergone has greatly enhanced its original value."--Era.

London: WILLIAM TEGG & CO., 85. Queen Street, Cheapside.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOW READY, MR. DOD'S PEERAGE, &c.

New Edition for 1854; thoroughly revised, with many Improvements.

PEERAGE, BARONETAGE, KNIGHTAGE, &c., for 1854 (Fourteenth Year): by CHARLES R. DOD, Esq., Author
of "The Parliamentary Companion," "Electoral Facts," &c. Fcp. 8vo., handsomely bound in cloth,
gilt.

WHITTAKER & CO., Ave-Maria Lane.
  T. S. Cocks, Jun. Esq., M.P.
  G. H. Drew, Esq.
  W. Evans, Esq.
  W. Freeman, Esq.
  F. Fuller, Esq.
  J. H. Goodhart, Esq.
  T. Grissell, Esq.
  J. Hunt, Esq.
  J. A. Lethbridge, Esq.
  E. Lucas, Esq.
  J. Lys Seager, Esq.

       *       *       *       *       *

Important Sale of Rare Books, Books of Prints, and Illuminated Manuscripts.

MESSRS. S. LEIGH SOTHEBY & JOHN WILKINSON, Auctioneers of Literary Property and Works illustrative
of the Fine Arts, will SELL by AUCTION, at their House, 3. Wellington Street, Strand, on MONDAY,
January 9, 1854, and Three following Days, at 1 o'clock precisely, an Important COLLECTION
of RARE BOOKS, Books of Prints, Illuminated and Historical Manuscripts, from the Library of
a distinguished Amateur, deceased:--comprising, The Grand Work on Egypt, executed under the
munificent direction of Napoleon I., the original edition on vellum paper, 23 vols. The Beautiful
and Interesting Series of Picturesque Voyages by Nodier, Taylor, and De Cailleux; Barker, Webb
et Berthélot, Histoire Naturelle des Iles Canaries, a magnificent work, in 10 vols. with exquisitely
coloured plates; Algérie. Historique, Pittoresque et Monumentale, 5 vols. in 3; Le Vaillant,
Histoire Naturelle des Oiseaux, on vellum paper, the plates beautifully coloured, 3 vols.;
Melling, Voyage Pittoresque de Constantinople, 2 vols. in 1; Montfaucon, Antiquité Expliquée,
avec Supplément et les Monumens de la Monarchie Françoise, 20 vols., a most beautiful copy,
in morocco, of the best edition, on large paper; Sebæ Rerum Naturalium Thesaurus, 4 vols.,
an exceedingly choice copy in rich French morocco; Museum Worsleyanum, 2 vols., on large paper;
Shaw, Illuminated Ornaments, on large paper, the plates exquisitely illuminated in gold and
colours; Beroalde de Verville, Le Moyen de Parvenir, a very fine copy of the rarest Elzevir
edition; Cieza, Historie del Peru, 1560-64, rare; Boccaccio, Il Decamerone, Ven. 1492, extremely
rare; Consolat dels Fets Maritims, very rare; Denyaldi, Rollo Northmanno-Britannicus, fine
copy, and very scarce; Henninges, Theatrum Genealogicum, 4 vols. in 5; Le Merre, Recueil des
Notes concernant les Affaires du Clergé de France, 13 vols., a beautiful copy; Mandeville,
Le Grande Lapidaire, 1561, an extremely rare edition; Renversement de la Morale Chrétienne,
rare; Verheiden in Classem Xerxis Hispani Oratio, very rare; Rare Works relating to England;
Books of Emblems; A curious and interesting Volume in German, giving an Account of the Crusades
against the Turks by the Christians, printed by Bämler. in 1482; Some highly interesting Historical
and other Manuscripts; Finely illuminated Horæ and Missals; and an interesting Fragment in
the Autograph of Rousseau.

To be viewed Two Days prior, and Catalogues had; forwarded Free on receipt of Six Postage Stamps.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC APPARATUS, MATERIALS, and PURE CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS.

KNIGHT & SONS' Illustrated Catalogue, containing Description and Price of the best forms of
Cameras and other Apparatus. Voightlander and Son's Lenses for Portraits and Views, together
with the various Materials, and pure Chemical Preparations required in practising the Photographic
Art. Forwarded free on receipt of Six Postage Stamps.

Instructions given in every branch of the Art.

An extensive Collection of Stereoscopic and other Photographic Specimens.

GEORGE KNIGHT & SONS, Foster Lane, London. 2s. 1854.

