       *       *       *       *       *

BY THE AUTHOR OF "CHILD'S PLAY."

In medium 4to., handsomely bound, price 15s.

A CHILDREN'S SUMMER.

Eleven Etchings on Steel by E. U. B.

ILLUSTRATED IN PROSE AND RHYME BY M. L. B. & W. M. C.

India Proofs on Large Paper, in Portfolio, price 31s. 6d.

    "What cordial admiration, what honest unaffected praise, have we to
    bestow on these etchings! Never did we see a more perfect harmony
    expressed throughout between accomplishment and grace of hand and moral
    beauty of mind. Not the most faultless of mere correctness of drawing
    could have the effect which these etchings produce. Within outlines
    imperfect as we have described them, often the most exalted fancies are
    found. The arrangement is almost always excellent--than the groupings
    of the figures, and the composition of each scene, nothing for the most
    part can be better. And the beautiful sympathy with children that is
    displayed, the enjoyment in their joy, their gay sports their tender
    little thoughtful gravities and their innocent purity of affection
    which brings round them the thoughts of angels--all this has most
    delightful expression in 'A Children's Summer.'"--Examiner.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Two Vols. crown 8vo., price 12s., elegantly bound in cloth, gilt,

GRIMM'S HOUSEHOLD STORIES.

COMPLETE EDITION.

The celebrated Stories of the Brothers Grimm.

Embellished with 200 small and 36 full-page Illustrations by E. H. WEHNERT.

    "From time to time we have noticed the periodical appearances of this
    edition of the famous book of the Brothers Grimm, and have only now to
    mention the fact of its completion into two compact, well-filled
    volumes. The translation is done in just the simple, homely way which
    suits best with the stories.... Every juvenile library should possess
    this excellent 'Grimm.'"--Examiner.

    "The two volumes of 'Household Stories,' translated from the Messrs.
    Grimm, are the completed form of an edition which was issued in
    numbers, and which has from time to time been mentioned by us as in
    course of publication. What with Mr. Wehnert's admirable illustrations
    (of which the number is almost countless) and the general elegance of
    production, the work now presents an appearance sufficiently seductive
    to the juvenile class of readers, to whom it is more particularly
    addressed."--Athenæum.

    "We cannot again avoid alluding to Mr. Wehnert's illustrations to
    'Grimm.' They are instinct with the most vital spirit of German
    legendary romance--remote, unreal, grotesque, and suggestive; with
    strange bits of landscape and beautiful human faces (those of the
    children remarkably so), and with a singular absence of strong contrast
    of light and shade, as though the sun which shone upon them was not the
    same which shines upon this earth."--Athenæum, second notice.

    "The stories are delightful."--Leader.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 8vo., handsomely bound in cloth gilt, price 5s., the First Volume of

THE CHARM:

A BOOK FOR BOYS AND GIRLS.

THE CONTRIBUTIONS BY MRS. HARRIET MYRTLE, ALFRED ELWES, J. H. PEPPER, FREDERICA GRAHAM, CLARA
DE CHATELAIN, &c.

Embellished with more than One Hundred Illustrations by LEJEUNE, KAULBACH, WEIR, WEHNERT, ABSOLON,
SKILL, &c. &c.

The Work is continued in Monthly Numbers, price Sixpence each.

    "A word in praise of the charming periodical for children, 'The Charm,'
    which is more eagerly looked for by several youngsters we know than
    "Bleak House' is by their parents."--Leader.

    "Children, we find, love this periodical."--Critic.

    "'The Charm' is an excellent monthly periodical, full of pleasant
    stories and engravings."--Atlas.

    "An attractive and well-varied book."--Spectator.

    "'The Charm,' a book for boys and girls, is the completed volume,
    handsomely bound, of a book which has been appearing in monthly numbers
    during the year, and in which form we have several times noticed it
    with warm approval. It is full of interesting matter to read, and
    adorned with upwards of one hundred engravings, of admirable execution,
    illustrative of natural history, topography, juvenile science,
    costumes, and sports, drawn by the best artist."--Critic.

       *       *       *       *       *

WITH FIVE HUNDRED PICTURES.

Large 4to., 6s. in elegant Picture Binding, by LUKE LIMNER, a New Edition of

THE PICTURE PLEASURE BOOK;

CONTAINING FIVE HUNDRED ILLUSTRATIONS BY THE MOST EMINENT ARTISTS.

An Edition is also published mounted on cloth, price 12s.

    "'The Picture Pleasure Book' is really the child's joy, for it gives
    him large folio pages full of woodcuts, executed in the best style of
    art, teaching him natural history, educating his eye to good drawing
    and graceful form, and telling stories in pictures. It is an admirable
    design, and no house that holds children should be without
    it."--Critic.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON: ADDEY AND CO., 21. 1853.

Corrections made to printed original.

p501. "the birth of Antonius Stradivarius" - "Autonius" in original