The detective asked me for my passports and did so without going through the customary formality
of showing his police card. I demanded as a matter of routine that he do this and began to
draw out of my pocket the large envelope in which I keep all my documents in order to take
out my Eagle-stamped German courier's paper. Without complying with my request he grabbed for
this envelope, while at the same moment someone jerked at the bag which was between my knees.
All this was an affair totally different from that of the Fliegende Blätter. I had thoroughly
thought out what I would do in an emergency if German officials should attempt to take my pouch
from me, and had decided that I should make enough of a resistance so that there should be
no possibility of disputing the fact that physical force had been used and an assault committed.
This would "let me out," since a dispatch-bearer cannot be expected successfully to defend
himself against the whole Germany army. Incidentally I might add that interference in any way
with the dispatch-bearer of a neutral country is a very heinous international and diplomatic
sin. I therefore jerked my envelope of papers rudely out of the detective's hand and gave him
a vigorous shove, resisting an almost overwhelming temptation to hit him with all my might
on his fat, unprotected jaw. I had half risen to my feet, meanwhile keeping a grip on the dispatch
bag with my knees, and at the same time I vigorously swung my hips and freed myself from the
man below. The detective struck the opposite wall of the compartment and bounced off toward
the doorway, where he and the conductors stood jabbering and waving their arms and ever getting
more and more purple in the face.

Finally the detective showed his police card, and I then extended to them my Eagle-stamped
courier passport, following it with my Embassy credential and my certificate of identity or
personal passport. These three made a complete case and I refused to show anything more, insisting
that my status had been adequately established. The officials continued to jabber and argue,
having been continuously impolite during the entire episode, a mode of behavior which was a
notable divergence from my previous experiences with agents of the Imperial Secret Service.
The chief detective, whose name was Werther, continued to hang around, trying to talk with
me, evidently determined to get further information about my plans.

I do not pretend to judge whether all this was mere accidental clumsiness and rudeness on the
part of stupid detectives or if it was something very much deeper, prompted by someone higher
up. One is, however, inclined to doubt inefficiency in the Prussian Secret Service and there
may have been reasons why German authorities would count it of great importance to know the
contents of my pouch.

At the Embassy in Berlin I had been told to change trains at a place called Löhne where I was
to arrive at two o'clock. Just before reaching this point, the conductor came through and told
me that it would be much more convenient for me to stay on the train until Essen, that this
would give me one less change in my journey to Flushing, and that it was altogether a better
route. (I must remark that, besides the bag in hand, I had in the baggage car all the routine
mail for the State Department in Washington, amounting to some two hundred and fifty pounds
in two big leather mail-sacks.) Although I replied that I thought it better to change at Löhne
anyway, the conductor insisted upon my following his plan. He was backed up by the detective,
who, except for various goings out and in, had remained facing me. They informed me that in
any event my mail-bags in the baggage car would go through to Essen. As by this time the train
was already slowing up for the station at Löhne, I accepted the inevitable.

