~PROPERTIES OF GOOD SAND.~--Engineers commonly specify that sand for concrete shall be clean
and sharp, and silicious in character. Neither sharpness nor excessive cleanliness is worth
seeking after if it involves much expense. Tests show conclusively that sand with rounded grains
makes quite as strong a mortar, other things being equal, as does sand with angular grains.
The admixture with sand of a considerable percentage of loam or clay is also not the unmixed
evil it has been supposed to be. Myron S. Falk records[B] a number of elaborate experiments
on this point. These experiments demonstrate conclusively that loam and clay in sand to the
amount of 10 to 15 per cent. result in no material reduction in the strength of mortars made
with this sand as compared with mortars made with the same sand after washing. There can be
no doubt but that for much concrete work the expense entailed in washing sand is an unnecessary
one.

[Footnote B: "Cements, Mortars and Concretes" By Myron S. Falk. Myron C. Clark Publishing Co.,
Chicago, Ill.]

The only substitute for natural sand for concrete, that need be considered practically, is
pulverized stone, either the dust and fine screenings produced in crushing rock or an artificial
sand made by reducing suitable rocks to powder. As a conclusion from the records of numerous
tests, M. S. Falk says: "It may be concluded that rock screenings may be substituted for sand,
either in mortar or concrete, without any loss of strength resulting. This is important commercially,
for it precludes the necessity of screening the dust from crushed rock and avoids, at the same
time, the cost of procuring a natural sand to take its place."

The principal danger in using stone dust is failure to secure the proper balance of different
size grains. This is also an important matter in the choice of natural sands. Sand composed
of a mixture of grains ranging from fine to coarse gives uniformly stronger mortars than does
sand with grains of nearly one size, and as between a coarse and a fine sand of one size of
grains the coarse sand gives the stronger mortar. Further data on the effect of size of grains
on the utility of sand for concrete are given in Chapter II, in the section on Voids in Sand,
and for those who wish to study in detail, the test data on this and the other matters referred
to here, the authors recommend "Cements, Mortars and Concretes; Their Physical Properties,"
by Myron S. Falk.

~COST OF SAND.~--A very common price for sand in cities is $1 per cu. yd., delivered at the
work. It may be noted here that as sand is often sold by the load instead of the cubic yard,
it is wise to have a written agreement defining the size of a load. Where the contractor gets
his sand from the pit its cost will be the cost of excavating and loading at the pit, the cost
of hauling in wagons, the cost of freight and rehandling it if necessary, and the cost of washing,
added together.

An energetic man working under a good foreman will load 20 cu. yds. of sand into wagons per
10-hour day; with a poor foreman or when laborers are scarce, it is not safe to count on more
than 15 cu. yds. per day. With wages at $1.50 per day this will make the cost of loading 10
cts. per cubic yard. The cost of hauling will include the cost of lost team time and dumping,
which will average about 5 cts. per cubic yard. With 1 cu. yd. loads, wages of team 35 cts.
per hour, and speed of travel 2½ miles per hour, the cost of hauling proper is ½ ct. per 100
ft., or 27 cts. per mile. Assuming a mile haul, the cost of sand delivered based on the above
figures will be 10 cts. + 5 cts. + ½ ct. per 100 ft. = 15 + 27 cts. = 42 cts. per cu. yd. Freight
rates can always be secured and it is usually safe to estimate the weight on a basis of 2,700
lbs. per cubic yard. For a full discussion of the cost of excavating sand and other earths
the reader is referred to "Earth Excavation and Embankments; Methods and Cost," by Halbert
P. Gillette and Daniel J. Hauer.

~METHODS AND COST OF WASHING SAND.~--When the available sand carries considerable percentages
of loam or clay and the specifications require that clean sand shall be used, washing is necessary.
The best and cheapest method of performing this task will depend upon the local conditions
and the amount of sand to be washed.

~Washing With Hose.~--When the quantity of sand to be washed does not exceed 15 to 30 cu. yds.
per day the simplest method, perhaps, is to use a hose. Build a wooden tank or box, 8 ft. wide
and 15 ft. long, the bottom having a slope of 8 ins. in the 15 ft. The sides should be about
8 ins. high at the lower end and rise gradually to 3 ft. in height at the upper end. Close
the lower end of the tank with a board gate about 6 ins. in height and sliding in grooves so
that it can be removed. Dump about 3 cu. yds. of sand into the upper end of the tank and play
a ¾-in. hose stream of water on it, the hose man standing at the lower end of the tank. The
water and sand flow down the inclined bottom of the tank where the sand remains and the dirt
flows over the gate and off with the water. It takes about an hour to wash a 3-cu. yd. batch,
and by building a pair of tanks so that the hose man can shift from one to the other, washing
can proceed continuously and one man will wash 30 cu. yds. per 10-hour day at a cost, with
wages at $1.50, of 5 cts. per cubic yard. The sand, of course, has to be shoveled from the
tank and this will cost about 10 cts. per cubic yard, making 15 cts. per cubic yard for washing
and shoveling, and to this must be added any extra hauling and, if the water is pumped, the
cost of pumping which may amount to 10 cts. per cubic yard for coal and wages. Altogether a
cost of from 15 to 30 cts. per cubic yard may be figured for washing sand with a hose.

~Washing With Sand Ejectors.~--When large quantities of sand are to be washed use may be made
of the sand ejector system, commonly employed in washing filter sand at large water filtration
plants; water under pressure is required. In this system the dirty sand is delivered into a
conical or pyramidal hopper, from the bottom of which it is drawn by an ejector and delivered
mixed with water into a second similar hopper; here the water and dirt overflow the top of
the hopper, while the sand settles and is again ejected into a third hopper or to the stock
pile or bins. The system may consist of anywhere from two to six hoppers. Figure 1 shows a
two-hopper lay-out and Fig. 2 shows a four-hopper lay-out. In the first plant the washed sand
is delivered into bins so arranged, as will be seen, that the bins are virtually a third washing
hopper. The clean sand is chuted from these bins directly into cars or wagons. In the second
plant the clean sand is ejected into a trough which leads it into buckets handled by a derrick.
The details of one of the washing hoppers for the plant shown by Fig. 1 are illustrated by Fig. 3.

At filter plants the dirty sand is delivered mixed with water to the first hopper by means
of ejectors stationed in the filters and discharging through pipes to the washers. When, as
would usually be the case in contract work, the sand is delivered comparatively dry to the
first hopper, this hopper must be provided with a sprinkler pipe to wet the sand. In studying
the ejector washing plants illustrated it should be borne in mind that for concrete work they
would not need to be of such permanent construction as for filter plants, the washers would
be mounted on timber frames, underground piping would be done away with, etc.; at best, however,
such plants are expensive and will be warranted only when the amount of sand to be washed is large.

The usual assumption of water-works engineers is that the volume of water required for washing
filter sand is 15 times the volume of the sand washed. At the Albany, N. Y., filters the sand
passes through five ejectors at the rate of 3 to 5 cu. yds. per hour and takes 4,000 gallons
of water per cubic yard. One man shovels sand into the washer and two take it away. Based on
an output of 32 cu. yds. in 10 hours, Mr. Allen Hazen estimates the cost of washing as follows:

3 men, at $2 per day                    $6.00
110,000 gallons of water, at $0.05       5.50
                                       ------
Total, 32 cu. yds., at 36 cts.         $11.50

~Washing With Tank Washers.~--Figure 4 shows a sand washer used in constructing a concrete
lock at Springdale, Pa., in the United States government improvement work on the Allegheny
river. The device consisted of a circular tank 9 ft. in diameter and 7 ft. high, provided with
a sloping false bottom perforated with 1-in. holes, through which water was forced as indicated.
A 7½×5×6-in. pump with a 3-in. discharge pipe was used to force water into the tank, and the
rotating paddles were operated by a 7 h.p. engine. This apparatus washed a batch of 14 cu.
yds. in from 1 to 2 hours at a cost of 7 cts. per cubic yard. The sand contained much fine
coal and silt. The above data are given by Mr. W. H. Roper.

Another form of tank washer, designed by Mr. Allen Hazen, for washing bank sand at Yonkers,
N. Y., is shown by Fig. 5. This apparatus consisted of a 10×2½×2½ ft. wooden box, with a 6-in.
pipe entering one end at the bottom and there branching into three 3-in. pipes, extending along
the bottom and capped at the ends. The undersides of the 3-in. pipes were pierced with ½-in.
holes 6 ins. apart, through which water under pressure was discharged into the box. Sand was
shoveled into the box at one end and the upward currents of water raised the fine and dirty
particles until they escaped through the waste troughs. When the box became filled with sand
a sliding door at one end was opened and the batch discharged. The operation was continuous
as long as sand was shoveled into the box; by manipulating the door the sand could be made
to run out with a very small percentage of water. Sand containing 7 per cent of dirt was thus
washed so that it contained only 0.6 per cent dirt. The washer handled 200 cu. yds. of sand
in 10 hours. The above data are given by F. H. Stephenson.

A somewhat more elaborate form of tank washer than either of those described is shown by Fig.
6. This apparatus was used by Mr. Geo. A. Soper for washing filter sand at Hudson, N. Y. The
dirty sand was shoveled into a sort of hopper, from which it was fed by a hose stream into
an inclined cylinder, along which it traveled and was discharged into a wooden trough provided
with a screw conveyor and closed at both ends. The water overflowing the sides of the trough
carried away the dirt and the clean sand was delivered by the screw to the bucket elevator
which hoisted it to a platform, from which it was taken by barrows to the stock pile. A 4-h.p.
engine with a 5-h.p. boiler operated the cylinder, screw, elevator and pump. Four men operated
the washer and handled 32 cu. yds. of sand per day; with wages at $1.50 the cost of washing
was 20 cts. per cubic yard.

In constructing a concrete block dam at Lynchburg, Va., sand containing from 15 to 30 per cent.
of loam, clay and vegetable matter was washed to a cleanliness of 2 to 5 per cent of such matter
by the device shown by Fig. 7. A small creek was diverted, as shown, into a wooden flume terminating
in two sand tanks; by means of the swinging gate the flow was passed through either tank as
desired. The sand was hauled by wagon and shoveled into the upper end of the flume; the current
carried it down into one of the tanks washing the dirt loose and carrying it off with the overflow
over the end of the tank while the sand settled in the tank. When one tank was full the flow
was diverted into the other tank and the sand in the first tank was shoveled out, loaded into
wagons, and hauled to the stock pile. As built this washer handled about 30 cu. yds. of sand
per 10-hour day, but the tanks were built too small for the flume, which could readily handle
75 cu. yds. per day with no larger working force. This force consisted of three men at $1.50
per day, making the cost, for a 30 cu. yd. output, 15 cts. per cu. yd. for washing.

None of the figures given above includes the cost of handling the sand to and from the washer.
When this involves much extra loading and hauling, it amounts to a considerable expense, and
in any plan for washing sand the contractor should figure, with exceeding care, the extra handling
due to the necessity of washing.

AGGREGATES.

The aggregates commonly used in making concrete are broken or crushed stone, gravel, slag and
cinders. Slag and cinders make a concrete that weighs considerably less than stone or gravel
mixtures, and being the products of combustion are commonly supposed to make a specially fire
resisting concrete; their use is, therefore, confined very closely to fireproof building work
and, in fact, to floor construction for such buildings. Slag and cinder concretes are for this
reason given minor consideration in this volume.

~BROKEN STONE.~--Stone produced by crushing any of the harder and tougher varieties of rock
is suitable for concrete. Perhaps the best stone is produced by crushing trap rock. Crushed
trap besides being hard and tough is angular and has an excellent fracture surface for holding
cement; it also withstands heat better than most stone. Next to trap the hard, tough, crystalline
limestones make perhaps the best all around concrete material; cement adheres to limestone
better than to any other rock. Limestone, however, calcines when subjected to fire and is,
therefore, objected to by many engineers for building construction. The harder and denser sandstones,
mica-schists, granites and syanites make good stone for concrete and occasionally shale and
slate may be used.

~GRAVEL.~--Gravel makes one of the best possible aggregates for concrete. The conditions under
which gravel is produced by nature make it reasonably certain that only the tougher and harder
rocks enter into its composition; the rounded shapes of the component particles permit gravel
to be more closely tamped than broken stone and give less danger of voids from bridging; the
mixture is also generally a fairly well balanced composition of fine and coarse particles.
The surfaces of the particles being generally smooth give perhaps a poorer bond with the cement
than most broken stone. In the matter of strength the most recent tests show that there is
very little choice between gravel and broken stone concrete.

~SLAG AND CINDERS.~--The slag used for concrete aggregate is iron blast furnace slag crushed
to proper size. Cinders for aggregate are steam boiler cinders; they are best with the fine
ashes screened out and should not contain more than 15 per cent. of unburned coal.

~BALANCED AGGREGATE.~--With the aggregate, as with the sand for concrete, the best results,
other things being equal, will be secured by using a well-balanced mixture of coarse and fine
particles. Usually the product of a rock crusher is fairly well balanced except for the very
fine material. There is nearly always a deficiency of this, which, as explained in a succeeding
section, has to be supplied by adding sand. Usually, also, the engineer accepts the crusher
product coarser than screenings as being well enough balanced for concrete work, but this is
not always the case. Engineers occasionally demand an artificial mixture of varying proportions
of different size stones and may even go so far as to require gravel to be screened and reproportioned.
This artificial grading of the aggregate adds to the cost of the concrete in some proportion
which must be determined for each individual case.

~SIZE OF AGGREGATE.~--The size of aggregate to be used depends upon the massiveness of the
structure, its purpose, and whether or not it is reinforced. It is seldom that aggregate larger
than will pass a 3-in. ring is used and this only in very massive work. The more usual size
is 2½ ins. For reinforced concrete 1¼ ins. is about the maximum size allowed and in building
work 1-in. aggregate is most commonly used. Same constructors use no aggregate larger than
¾ in. in reinforced building work, and others require that for that portion of the concrete
coming directly in contact with the reinforcement the aggregate shall not exceed ¼ to ½ in.
The great bulk of concrete work is done with aggregate smaller than 2 ins., and as a general
thing where the massiveness of the structure will allow of much larger sizes it will be more
economic to use rubble concrete. (See Chapter VI.)

~COST OF AGGREGATE.~--The locality in which the work is done determines the cost of the aggregate.
Concerns producing broken stone or screened and washed gravel for concrete are to be found
within shipping distance in most sections of the country so that these materials may be purchased
in any amount desired. The cost will then be the market price of the material f. o. b. cars
at plant plus the freight rates and the cost of unloading and haulage to the stock piles. If
the contractor uses a local stone or gravel the aggregate cost will be, for stone the costs
of quarrying and crushing and transportation, and, for gravel, the cost of excavation, screening,
washing and transportation.

~SCREENED OR CRUSHER-RUN STONE FOR CONCRETE.~--Formerly engineers almost universally demanded
that broken stone for concrete should have all the finer particles screened out. This practice
has been modified to some considerable extent in recent years by using all the crusher product
both coarse and fine, or, as it is commonly expressed, by using run-of-crusher stone. The comparative
merits of screened and crusher-run stone for concrete work are questions of comparative economy
and convenience. The fine stone dust and chips produced in crushing stone are not, as was once
thought, deleterious; they simply take the place of so much of the sand which would, were the
stone screened, be required to balance the sand and stone mixture. It is seldom that the proportion
of chips and dust produced in crushing stone is large enough to replace the sand constituent
entirely; some sand has nearly always to be added to run-of-crusher stone and it is in determining
the amount of this addition that uncertainty lies. The proportions of dust and chips in crushed
stone vary with the kind of stone and with the kind of crusher used. Furthermore, when run-of-crusher
stone is chuted from the crusher into a bin or pile the screenings and the coarse stones segregate.
Examination of a crusher-run stone pile will show a cone-shaped heart of fine material enclosed
by a shell of coarser stone, consequently when this pile of stone is taken from to make concrete
a uniform mixture of fine and coarse particles is not secured, the material taken from the
outside of the pile will be mostly coarse and that from the inside mostly fine. This segregation
combined with the natural variation in the crusher product makes the task of adding sand and
producing a balanced sand and stone mixture one of extreme uncertainty and some difficulty
unless considerable expenditure is made in testing and reproportioning. When the product of
the crusher is screened the task of proportioning the sand to the stone is a straightforward
operation, and the screened out chips and dust can be used as a portion of the sand if desired.
The only saving, then, in using crusher-run stone direct is the very small one of not having
to screen out the fine material. The conclusion must be that the economy of unscreened stone
for concrete is a very doubtful quantity, and that the risk of irregularity in unscreened stone
mixtures is a serious one. The engineer's specifications will generally determine for the contractor
whether he is to use screened or crusher-run stone, but these same specifications will not
guarantee the regularity of the resulting concrete mixture; this will be the contractor's burden
and if the engineer's inspection is rigid and the crusher-run product runs uneven for the reasons
given above it will be a burden of considerable expense. The contractor will do well to know
his product or to know his man before bidding less or even as little on crusher-run as on screened
stone concrete.

~COST OF QUARRYING AND CRUSHING STONE.~--The following examples of the cost of quarrying and
crushing stone are fairly representative of the conditions which would prevail on ordinary
contract work. In quarrying and crushing New Jersey trap rock with gyratory crushers the following
was the cost of producing 200 cu. yds. per day:

                                        Per day.  Per cu. yd.

  3 drillers at $2.75                     $ 8.25    $0.041
  3 helpers at $1.75                        5.25     0.026
 10 men barring out and sledging           15.00     0.075
 14 men loading carts                      21.00     0.105
  4 cart horses                             6.00     0.030
  2 cart drivers                            3.00     0.015
  2 men dumping carts and feeding crusher   3.00     0.015
  1 fireman for drill boiler                2.50     0.013
  1 engineman for crusher                   3.00     0.015
  1 blacksmith                              3.00     0.015
  1 blacksmith helper                       2.00     0.010
  1 foreman                                 5.00     0.025
  2 tons coal at $3.50                      7.00     0.035
150 lbs. 40% dynamite at 15 cts.           22.50     0.113
                                          ------   -------
      Total                              $106.50    $0.533

The quarry face worked was 12 to 18 ft., and the stone was crushed to 2-in. size. Owing to
the seamy character of the rock it was broken by blasting into comparatively small pieces requiring
very little sledging. The stone was loaded into one-horse dump carts, the driver taking one
cart to the crusher while the other was being loaded. The haul was 100 ft. The carts were dumped
into an inclined chute leading to a No. 5 Gates crusher. The stone was elevated by a bucket
elevator and screened. All stone larger than 2 ins. was returned through a chute to a No. 3
Gates crusher for recrushing. The cost given above does not include interest, depreciation,
and repairs; these items would add about $8 to $10 more per day or 4 to 5 cts. per cubic yard.

In quarrying limestone, where the face of the quarry was only 5 to 6 ft. high, and where the
amount of stripping was small, one steam drill was used. This drill received its steam from
the same boiler that supplied the crusher engine. The drill averaged 60 ft. of hole drilled
per 10-hr. day, but was poorly handled and frequently laid off for repairs. The cost of quarrying
and crushing was as follows:

                          Quarry.
1 driller                                    $ 2.50
1 helper                                       1.50
1 man stripping                                1.50
4 men quarrying                                6.00
1 blacksmith                                   2.50
1/8 ton coal at $3                             1.00
Repairs to drill                                .60
Hose, drill steel and interest on plant         .90
24 lbs. dynamite                               3.60
                                             ------
Total                                        $20.10

                          Crusher.
1 engineman                                  $ 2.50
2 men feeding crusher                          3.50
6 men wheeling                                 9.00
1 bin man                                      1.50
1 general foreman                              3.00
1/3 ton coal at $3                             1.00
1 gallon oil                                    .25
Repairs to crusher                             1.00
Repairs to engine and boiler                   1.00
Interest on plant                              1.00
                                             ------
Total                                        $23.75

Summary:
                                     Per day. Per. cu. yd.

Quarrying                              $20.10   $0.37
Crushing                                23.75    0.39
                                       ------   -----
Total for 60 cu. yds.                  $43.85   $0.76

The "4 men quarrying" barred out and sledged the stone to sizes that would enter a 9×16-in.
jaw crusher. The "6 men wheeling" delivered the stone in wheelbarrows to the crusher platform,
the run plank being never longer than 150 ft. Two men fed the stone into the crusher, and a
bin-man helped load the wagons from the bin, and kept tally of the loads. The stone was measured
loose in the wagons, and it was found that the average load was 1½ cu. yds., weighing 2,400
lbs. per cu. yd. There were 40 wagon loads, or 60 cu. yds. crushed per 10-hr. day, although
on some days as high as 75 cu. yds. were crushed. The stone was screened through a rotary screen,
9 ft. long, having three sizes of openings, ½-in., 1¼-in. and 2¼-in. The output was 16% of
the smallest size, 24% of the middle size, and 60% of the large size. All tailings over 2½
ins. in size were recrushed.

It will be noticed that the interest on the plant is quite an important item. This is due to
the fact that, year in and year out, a quarrying and crushing plant seldom averages more than
100 days actually worked per year, and the total charge for interest must be distributed over
these 100 days, and not over 300 days as is so commonly and erroneously done. The cost of stripping
the earth off the rock is often considerably in excess of the above given cost, and each case
must be estimated separately. Quarry rental or royalty is usually not in excess of 5 cts. per
cu. yd., and frequently much less. The dynamite used was 40%, and the cost of electric exploders
is included in the cost given. Where a higher quarry face is used the cost of drilling and
the cost of explosives per cu. yd. is less. Exclusive of quarry rent and heavy stripping costs,
a contractor should be able to quarry and crush limestone or sandstone for not more than 75
cts. per cu. yd., or 62 cts. per ton of 2,000 lbs., wages and conditions being as above given.

The labor cost of erecting bins and installing a 9×16 jaw crusher, elevator, etc., averages
about $75, including hauling the plant two or three miles, and dismantling the plant when work
is finished.

The following is a record of the cost of crushing stone and cobbles on four jobs at Newton,
Mass., in 1891. On jobs A and B the stone was quarried and crushed; on jobs C and D cobblestones
were crushed. A 9×15-in. Farrel-Marsondon crusher was used, stone being fed in by two laborers.
A rotary screen having ½, 1 and 2½-in. openings delivered the stone into bins having four compartments,
the last receiving the "tailings" which had failed to pass through the screen. The broken stone
was measured in carts as they left the bin, but several cart loads were weighed, giving the
following weights per cubic foot of broken stone:

                               -----------Size.--------------

                               ½-in.  1-in. 2½-ins. Tailings.
                                lbs.   lbs.   lbs.     lbs.
Greenish trap rock, "A"         95.8   84.3   88.3     91.0
Conglomerate, "B"              101.0   87.7   94.4     ....
Cobblestones, "C" and "D"      102.5   98.0   99.6     ....

A one-horse cart held 26 to 28 cu. ft. (average 1 cu. yd.) of broken stone; a two-horse cart,
40 to 42 cu. ft., at the crusher.

                               ---------------------Job.-------------

                                            A.     B.      C.      D.
Hours run                                  412    144     101     198
Short tons per hour                        9.0   11.2    15.7    12.1
Cu. yds. per hour                          7.7    8.9    11.8     9.0
Per cent of tailings                      31.8   29.3    17.5    20.5
Per cent of 2½-in. stone                  51.3   51.9    57.0    55.1
Per cent of 1-in. stone                   10.2   ....    ....    ....
Per cent of ½-in. stone or dust            6.7   18.8    25.5    23.4

                               ---------------------Job.-------------

                                           A.      B.     C.      D.
Explosives, coal for drill and repairs $0.084  $0.018    ....    ....
Labor steam drilling                    0.092    ....    ....    ....
Labor hand drilling                      ....   0.249    ....    ....
Sharpening tools                        0.069   0.023    ....    ....
Sledging stone for crusher              0.279   0.420    ....    ....
Loading carts                           0.098   0.127    ....  $0.144
Carting to crusher                      0.072   0.062  $0.314   0.098
Feeding crusher                         0.053   0.053   0.033   0.065
Engineer of crusher                     0.031   0.038   0.029   0.036
Coal for crusher                        0.079   0.050   0.047   0.044
Repairs to crusher                      0.041    ....    ....   0.011
Moving portable crusher                  ....   0.023    ....   0.019
Watchman ($1.75 a day)                   ....   0.053   0.022   0.030
                                       ------  ------  ------  ------
Total cost per cu. yd.                 $0.898  $1.116  $0.445  $0.447
Total cost per short ton                0.745   0.885   0.330   0.372

     Note.--"A" was trap rock; "B" was conglomerate rock; "C" and
     "D" were trap and granite cobblestones. Common laborers on jobs
     "A" and "D" were paid $1.75 per 9-hr. day; on jobs "B" and "C,"
     $1.50 per 9-hr. day; two-horse cart and driver, $5 per day;
     blacksmith, $2.50; engineer on crusher, $2 on job "A," $2.25 on
     "B," $2.00 on "C," $2.50 on "D"; steam driller received $3, and
     helper $1.75 a day; foreman, $3 a day. Coal was $5.25 per short
     ton. Forcite powder, 11-1/3 cts. per lb.

For a full discussion of quarrying and crushing methods and costs and for descriptions of crushing
machinery and plants the reader is referred to "Rock Excavation; Methods and Cost," by Halbert
P. Gillette.

~SCREENING AND WASHING GRAVEL.~--Handwork is resorted to in screening gravel only when the
amount to be screened is small and when it is simply required to separate the fine sand without
sorting the coarser material into sizes. The gravel is shoveled against a portable inclined
screen through which the sand drops while the pebbles slide down and accumulate at the bottom.
The cost of screening by hand is the cost of shoveling the gravel against the screen divided
by the number of cubic yards of saved material. In screening gravel for sand the richer the
gravel is in fine material the cheaper will be the cost per cubic yard for screening; on the
contrary in screening gravel for the pebbles the less sand there is in the gravel the cheaper
will be the cost per cubic yard for screening. The cost of shoveling divided by the number
of cubic yards shoveled is the cost of screening only when both the sand and the coarser material
are saved. Tests made in the pit will enable the contractor to estimate how many cubic yards
of gravel must be shoveled to get a cubic yard of sand or pebbles. An energetic man will shovel
about 25 cu. yds. of gravel against a screen per 10-hour day and keep the screened material
cleared away, providing no carrying is necessary.

A mechanical arrangement capable of handling a considerably larger yardage of material is shown
by Fig. 8. Two men and a team are required. The team is attached to the scraper by means of
the rope passing through the pulley at the top of the incline. The scraper is loaded in the
usual manner, hauled up the incline until its wheels are stopped by blocks and then the team
is backed up to slacken the rope and permit the scraper to tip and dump its load. The trip
holding the scraper while dumping is operated from the ground. The scraper load falls onto
an inclined screen which takes out the sand and delivers the pebbles into the wagon. By erecting
bins to catch the sand and pebbles this same arrangement could be made continuous in operation.

In commercial gravel mining, the gravel is usually sorted into several sizes and generally
it is washed as well as screened. Where the pebbles run into larger sizes a crushing plant
is also usually installed to reduce the large stones. Works producing several hundred cubic
yards of screened and washed gravel per day require a plant of larger size and greater cost
than even a very large piece of concrete work will warrant, so that only general mention will
be made here of such plants. The commercial sizes of gravel are usually 2-in., 1-in., ½-in.
and ¼-in., down to sand. No very detailed costs of producing gravel by these commercial plants
are available. At the plant of the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry., where gravel is screened
and washed for ballast, the gravel is passed over a 2-in., a ¾-in., a ¼-in. and a 1/8-in. screen
in turn and the fine sand is saved. About 2,000 tons are handled per day; the washed gravel,
2-in. to 1/8-in. sizes, represents from 40 to 65 per cent. of the raw gravel and costs from
23 to 30 cts. per cu. yd., for excavation, screening and washing. The drawings of Fig. 9 show
a gravel washing plant having a capacity of 120 to 130 cu. yds. per hour, operated by the Stewart-Peck
Sand Co., of Kansas City, Mo. Where washing alone is necessary a plant of one or two washer
units like those here shown could be installed without excessive cost by a contractor at any
point where water is available. Each washer unit consists of two hexagonal troughs 18 ins.
in diameter and 18 ft. long. A shaft carrying blades set spirally is rotated in each trough
to agitate the gravel and force it along; each trough also has a fall of 6 ins. toward its
receiving end. The two troughs are inclosed in a tank or box and above and between them is
a 5-in. pipe having ¾-in. holes 3 ins. apart so arranged that the streams are directed into
the troughs. The water and dirt pass off at the lower end of the troughs while the gravel is
fed by the screws into a chute discharging into a bucket elevator, which in turn feeds into
a storage bin. The gravel to be washed runs from 2 ins. to 1/8-in. in size; it is excavated
by steam shovel and loaded into 1½ cu. yd. dump cars, three of which are hauled by a mule to
the washers, where the load is dumped into the troughs. The plant having a capacity of 120
to 130 cu. yds. per hour cost $25,000, including pump and an 8-in. pipe line a mile long. A
100-hp. engine operates the plant, and 20 men are needed for all purposes. This plant produces
washed gravel at a profit for 40 cts. per cu. yd.

CHAPTER II.

THEORY AND PRACTICE OF PROPORTIONING CONCRETE.

American engineers proportion concrete mixtures by measure, thus a 1-3-5 concrete is one composed
of 1 volume of cement, 3 volumes of sand and 5 volumes of aggregate. In Continental Europe
concrete is commonly proportioned by weight and there have been prominent advocates of this
practice among American engineers. It is not evident how such a change in prevailing American
practice would be of practical advantage. Aside from the fact that it is seldom convenient
to weigh the ingredients of each batch, sand, stone and gravel are by no means constant in
specific gravity, so that the greater exactness of proportioning by weight is not apparent.
In this volume only incidental attention is given to gravimetric methods of proportioning concrete.

~VOIDS.~--Both the sand and the aggregates employed for concrete contain voids. The amount
of this void space depends upon a number of conditions. As the task of proportioning concrete
consists in so proportioning the several materials that all void spaces are filled with finer
material the conditions influencing the proportion of voids in sand and aggregates must be known.

~Voids in Sand.~--The two conditions exerting the greatest influence on the proportion of voids
in sand are the presence of moisture and the size of the grains of which the sand is composed.

TABLE I.--SHOWING EFFECT OF ADDITIONS OF DIFFERENT PERCENTAGES OF MOISTURE ON VOLUME OF SAND.

Per cent of water in sand       0    0.5    1     2     3     5     10 Weight per cu. yd. of
fine     Lbs.  Lbs.  Lbs.  Lbs.  Lbs.  Lbs.  Lbs. sand and water                3,457 2,206
2,085 2,044 2,037 2,035 2,133 Weight per cu. yd. of coarse sand and water                2,551
2,466 2,380 2,122 2,058 2,070 2,200

The volume of sand is greatly affected by the presence of varying percentages of moisture in
the sand. A dry loose sand that has 45 per cent. voids if mixed with 5 per cent. by weight
of water will swell, unless tamped, to such an extent that its voids may be 57 per cent. The
same sand if saturated with water until it becomes a thin paste may show only 37½ per cent.
voids after the sand has settled. Table I shows the results of tests made by Feret, the French
experimenter. Two kinds of sand were used, a very fine sand and a coarse sand. They were measured
in a box that held 2 cu. ft. and was 8 ins. deep, the sand being shoveled into the box but
not tamped or shaken. After measuring and weighing the dry sand 0.5 per cent. by weight of
water was added and the sand was mixed and shoveled back into the box again and then weighed.
These operations were repeated with varying percentages of water up to 10 per cent. It will
be noted that the weight of mixed water and sand is given; to ascertain the exact weight of
dry sand in any mixture, divide the weight given in the table by 100 per cent. plus the given
tabular per cent.; thus the weight of dry, fine sand in a 5 per cent. mixture is 2,035 ÷ 1.5
= 1,98 lbs. per cu. yd. The voids in the dry sand were 45 per cent. and in the sand with 5
per cent. moisture they were 56.7 per cent. Pouring water onto loose, dry sand compacts it.
By mixing fine sand and water to a thin paste and allowing it to settle, it was found that
the sand occupied 11 per cent. less space than when measured dry. The voids in fine sand, having
a specific gravity of 2.65, were determined by measurement in a quart measure and found to
be as follows:

Sand not packed, per cent. voids                     44½ Sand shaken to refusal, per cent.
voids              35 Sand saturated with water, per cent. voids           37½

Another series of tests made by Mr. H. P. Boardman, using Chicago sand having 34 to 40 per
cent. voids, showed the following results:

Water added, per cent.           2      4    6      8     10 Resulting per cent. increase 
17.6   22   19.5   16.6   15.6

