Brougham warmly praises his independence, and wishes that those who had spoken slightingly
of his eloquence would take to heart his example. Stephen had in 1811 been rewarded for his
support of the Orders in Council by a Mastership in Chancery. Romilly observes that the appointment
was questionable, because Stephen, though he was fully qualified by his abilities, was not
sufficiently versed in the law. His friends said that it was no more than a fair compensation
for the diminution of the prize business which resulted from the new regulations. He held the
office till 1831, when failing health caused his retirement. He lived for many years at Kensington
Gore on the site of the present Lowther Lodge; and there from 1809 to 1821 Wilberforce was
his neighbour. His second wife, Wilberforce's sister, died in October 1816. After leaving Parliament,
he continued his active crusade against slavery. He published, it is said, four pamphlets in
1815; and in 1824 brought out the first volume of his 'Slavery of the British West India Colonies
delineated.' This is an elaborate digest of the slave laws; and it was followed in 1830 by
a second volume describing the actual working of the system. From about 1819 Stephen had a
small country house at Missenden, Bucks.[16] Here he was occasionally visited by his brother-in-law,
and a terrace upon which they used to stroll is still known as 'Wilberforce's Walk.' Stephen
had a keen love of country scenery and had inherited from his father a love of long daily walks.
I record from tradition one story of his prowess. In the early morning of his seventieth birthday,
it is said, he left Missenden on foot, walked twenty-five miles to Hampstead, where he breakfasted
with a son-in-law, thence walked to his office in London, and, after doing his day's work,
walked out to Kensington Gore in the evening. It was a good performance, and I hope not injurious
to his health, nor can I accept the suggestion that the old gentleman may have taken a lift
in a pony carriage by which he used to be followed in his walks. He certainly retained his
vigour, although he had suffered from some serious illnesses. He was attacked by yellow fever
in the West Indies, when his brother William and another doctor implored him to let them bleed
him. On his obstinate refusal, they turned their backs in consultation, when he suddenly produced
a bottle of port from under his pillow and took it off in two draughts. Next day he left his
bed and defended a disregard of professional advice which had been suggested by previous observations.
He became a staunch believer in the virtues of port, and though he never exceeded a modest
half-bottle, drank it steadily till the last. He was, I am told, and a portrait confirms the
impression, a very handsome old man with a beautiful complexion, masses of white hair, and
a keen thoughtful face. He died at Bath, October 10, 1832. He was buried at Stoke Newington
by the side of his mother. There Wilberforce had promised to be buried by his friend; but for
him Westminster Abbey was a fitter resting-place.[17]

The Master and his elder brother had retrieved the fortunes of the family. William returned
to England, and died about 1807. He left a family by his wife, Mary Forbes, and his daughter
Mary became the wife of Archdeacon Hodson and the mother of Hodson of 'Hodson's Horse.' The
Master's younger brother, John, also emigrated to St. Christopher's, practised at the bar,
and ultimately became Judge of the Supreme Court of New South Wales in 1825. He died at Sydney
in 1834. John's fourth son, Alfred, born at St. Christopher's, August 20, 1802, was called
to the bar at Lincoln's Inn in 1823, became in 1825 Solicitor-General of Tasmania, in 1839
judge, and in 1843 Chief Justice, of New South Wales. He retired in 1873, and was for a time
Lieutenant-Governor of the Colony. He received many honours, including the Grand Cross of the
Order of St. Michael and St. George, and a seat in the Privy Council; and, from all that I
have heard, I believe that he fully deserved them. He took an important part in consolidating
the criminal law of the colonies, and near the end of his long career (at the age of 89) became
conspicuous in advocating a change in the law of divorce. The hardships suffered by women who
had been deserted by bad husbands had excited his sympathy, and in spite of much opposition
he succeeded in obtaining a measure for relief in such cases. Sir Alfred died on October 15,
1894. He was twice married, and had five sons and four daughters by one marriage and four sons
and five daughters by the other. One of his sons is a judge in the colony, and I believe that
at the period of his death he had considerably more than a hundred living descendants in three
generations. He was regarded with universal respect and affection as a colonial patriarch,
and I hope that his memory may long be preserved and his descendants flourish in the growing
world of Australia. To the very end of his life, Sir Alfred maintained his affectionate relations
with his English relatives, and kept up a correspondence which showed that his intellectual
vigour was unabated almost to the last.

III. MASTER STEPHEN'S CHILDREN

I have now to speak of the generation which preceded my own, of persons who were well known
to me, and who were the most important figures in the little world in which my brother and
I passed our infancy. James Stephen, the Master, was survived by six children, of whom my father
was the third. I will first say a few words of his brothers and sisters. The eldest son, William,
became a quiet country clergyman. He was vicar of Bledlow, Bucks (for nearly sixty years),
and of Great Stagsden, Beds, married a Miss Grace, but left no children, and died January 8,
1867. I remember him only as a mild old gentleman with a taste for punning, who came up to
London to see the Great Exhibition of 1851, and then for the first time had also the pleasure
of seeing a steamboat. Steamboats are rare in the Buckinghamshire hills, among which he had
vegetated ever since their invention.

Henry John, the second son, born January 18, 1787, was at the Chancery bar. He married his
cousin, Mary Morison, and from 1815 till 1832 he lived with his father at Kensington Gore.
A nervous and retiring temper prevented him from achieving any great professional success,
but he was one of the most distinguished writers of his time upon legal subjects. His first
book, 'Treatise on the Principles of Pleading in Civil Actions,' originally published in 1824,
has gone through many editions both in England and America. Chancellor Kent, as Allibone's
dictionary informs me, calls it 'the best book that ever was written in explanation of the
science,' and many competent authorities have assured me that it possesses the highest merits
as a logical composition, although the law of which it treats has become obsolete. The reputation
acquired by this book led to his appointment to a seat in the Common Law Commission formed
in 1828; and in the same year he became serjeant-at-law. His brother commissioners became judges,
but his only promotion was to a commissionership of bankruptcy at Bristol in 1842.[18] In 1834
he published a 'Summary of the Criminal Law,' which was translated into German. His edition
of Blackstone's Commentaries first appeared in 1841. It contained from the first so much of
his own work as to be almost an independent performance. In later editions he introduced further
changes to adapt it to later legislation, and it is still a standard book.

He lived after the Bristol appointment at Cleevewood in the parish of Mangotsfield. He retired
in February 1854, and lived afterwards in Clifton till his death on November 28, 1864. I remember
him as a gentle and courteous old man, very shy, and, in his later years, never leaving his
house, and amusing himself with speculating upon music and the prophecies. He inherited apparently
the nervous temperament of his family with less than their usual dash of the choleric.[19]
My uncle, Sir George, declares that the serjeant was appointed to a judgeship by Lord Lyndhurst,
but immediately resigned, on the ground that he felt that he could never bear to pass a capital
sentence.[20] I record the anecdote, not as true (I have reasons for thinking it erroneous),
but as indicating the impression made by his character.

The fourth brother, George, born about 1794, was a man of very different type. In him appeared
some of the characteristics of his irascible and impetuous grandfather. His nature was of coarser
fibre than that of his sensitive and nervous brothers. He was educated at Magdalene College,
Cambridge; and was afterwards placed in the office of the Freshfields, the eminent firm of
solicitors. He had, I have been told, an offer of a partnership in the firm, but preferred
to set up for himself. He was employed in the rather unsavoury duty of procuring evidence as
to the conduct of Queen Caroline upon the Continent. In 1826 he undertook an inquiry ordered
by the House of Commons in consequence of complaints as to the existence of a slave trade in
Mauritius. He became acquainted with gross abuses, and resolved thereupon to take up the cause
with which his family was so closely connected. He introduced himself to O'Connell in order
to learn some of the secrets of the great art of agitation. Fortified by O'Connell's instructions,
he proceeded to organise the 'celebrated Agency Committee.' This committee, headed by Zachary
Macaulay, got up meetings and petitions throughout the country, and supported Buxton in the
final assault upon slavery. For his services in the cause, George Stephen was knighted in 1838.
He showed a versatile ability by very miscellaneous excursions into literature. He wrote in
1837 'Adventures of a Gentleman in search of a Horse,' which became popular, and proved that,
besides understanding the laws relating to the subject, he was the only one, as I believe,
of his family who could clearly distinguish a horse from a cow. A very clever but less judicious
work was the 'Adventures of an Attorney in search of Practice,' first published in 1839, which
gave or was supposed to give indiscreet revelations as to some of his clients. Besides legal
pamphlets, he proved his sound Evangelicalism by a novel called 'The Jesuit at Cambridge' (1847),
intended to unveil the diabolical machinations of the Catholic Church. An unfortunate catastrophe
ruined his prospects. He had founded a society for the purchase of reversions and acted as
its solicitor. It flourished for some years, till misunderstandings arose, and Sir George had
to retire, besides losing much more than he could afford. He then gave up the profession which
he had always disliked, was called to the bar in 1849 and practised for some years at Liverpool,
especially in bankruptcy business. At last he found it necessary to emigrate and settled at
Melbourne in 1855. He found the colonists at least as perverse as the inhabitants of his native
country. He wrote a 'Life of Christ' (not after the plan of Renan) intended to teach them a
little Christianity, and a (so-called) life of his father, which is in the main an exposition
of his own services and the ingratitude of mankind. The state of Australian society seemed
to him to justify his worst forebodings; and he held that the world in general was in a very
bad way. It had not treated him too kindly; but I fear that the complaints were not all on
one side. He was, I suppose, one of those very able men who have the unfortunate quality of
converting any combination into which they enter into an explosive compound. He died at Melbourne,
June 20, 1879.[21]

The Master's two daughters were Sibella, born 1792, and Anne Mary, whose birth caused the death
of her mother in December 1796. Sibella married W. A. Garratt, who was second wrangler and
first Smith's prizeman in 1804. He was a successful barrister and a man of high character,
though of diminutive stature. 'Mr. Garratt,' a judge is reported to have said to him, 'when
you are addressing the court you should stand up.' 'I am standing up, my lord.' 'Then, Mr.
Garratt, you should stand upon the bench.' 'I am standing upon the bench, my lord.' He had
been disinherited by his father, I have heard, for preferring a liberal profession to trade,
but upon his father's death his brothers made over to him the share which ought to have been
left to him. He was for many years on the Committee of the Church Missionary Society, and wrote
in defence of Evangelical principles.[22]

His houses at Hampstead and afterwards at Brighton were among our youthful resorts; and my
aunt remains in my memory as a gentle, kindly old lady, much afflicted by deafness. Mr. Garratt
died in 1858, aged 77, and his wife at the same age on February 7, 1869.

Anne Mary, my other aunt, married Thomas Edward Dicey. He was a schoolfellow and college friend
of my father. I may observe, for the sake of Cambridge readers, that, after passing his first
year of university life at Oxford, he came to Cambridge ignorant of mathematics and in delicate
health, which prevented him from reading hard. In spite of this, he was senior wrangler in
1811--a feat which would now be impossible for a Newton. He was the calmest and gentlest of
human beings, and to his calmness was attributable the fact that he lived till 1858, although
when he was twenty the offices refused to insure his life for a year on any terms. Those who
knew him best regarded him as a man of singular wisdom and refinement. He lived, till he came
to London for the later education of his boys, in a small country house at Claybrook, near
Lutterworth, and was proprietor of the 'Northampton Mercury,' one of the oldest papers in England,
founded, I believe, by his grandfather. This Claybrook house was the scene of some of our happiest
childish days. My aunt was a most devoted mother of four sons, whose early education she conducted
in great part herself. In later years she lived in London, and was the most delightful of hostesses.
Her conversation proved her to possess a full share of the family talents, and although, like
her sister, she suffered from deafness, a talk with her was, to my mind at least, as great
a treat as a talk with the most famous performers in the social art. After her husband's death,
she was watched by her youngest son, Frank, who had become an artist, with a tender affection
such as is more frequently exhibited by a daughter to an infirm father. She died on October
28, 1878, and has been followed by two of her sons, Henry and Frank. The two surviving sons,
Edward and Albert Venn Dicey, Vinerian professor of Law at Oxford, are both well known in the
literary and political world.

I must now tell so much as I know, and is relevant to my purpose, of my father's life. James
Stephen, fourth at least of the name, and third son of the Master, was born January 3, 1789,
at Lambeth, during his father's visit to England. He had an attack of small-pox during his
infancy, which left a permanent weakness of eyesight. The Master's experience had not taught
him the evils of desultory education. James, the younger, was, I believe, under various schoolmasters,
of whom I can only mention John Prior Estlin, of St. Michael's Hill, Bristol, a Unitarian,
and the Rev. H. Jowett, of Little Dunham, Norfolk, who was one of the adherents to Evangelicalism.
The change probably marks the development of his father's convictions. He entered Trinity Hall,
Cambridge, in 1806. At that time the great Evangelical leader at Cambridge was Isaac Milner,
the President of Queens' College. Milner's chief followers were William Farish, of Magdalene,
and Joseph Jowett, of Trinity Hall, both of them professors. Farish, as I have said, married
my grandfather's sister, and the colleges were probably selected for my father and his brother
George with a view to the influence of these representatives of the true faith. The 'three
or four years during which I lived on the banks of the Cam,' said my father afterwards,[23]
'were passed in a very pleasant, though not a very cheap, hotel. But had they been passed at
the Clarendon, in Bond Street, I do not think that the exchange would have deprived me of any
aids for intellectual discipline or for acquiring literary and scientific knowledge.' That
he was not quite idle I infer from a copy of Brotier's 'Tacitus' in my possession with an inscription
testifying that it was given to him as a college prize. He took no university honours, took
the degree of LL.B. in 1812, and was called to the bar at Lincoln's Inn November 11, 1811.
His father had just become Master in Chancery, and was able to transfer some of his clients
to the son. James the younger thus gained some experience in colonial matters, and 'employed
himself in preparing a digest of the colonial laws in general.'[24] He obtained leave from
the third Earl Bathurst, then and for many years afterwards the head of the Colonial Department,
to examine the official records for this purpose. In 1813 Lord Bathurst, who was in general
sympathy with the opinions of the Clapham sect, appointed James Stephen Counsel to the Colonial
Department. His duties were to report upon all acts of colonial legislature. He received a
fee of three guineas for each act, and the office at first produced about 300l. a year. After
a time the post became more laborious. He was receiving 1,000l. a year some ten years after
his appointment, with, of course, a corresponding increase of work.[25] The place was, however,
compatible with the pursuit of the profession, and my father in a few years was making 3,000l.
a year, and was in a position which gave him as fair a prospect of obtaining professional honours
as was enjoyed by any man of his standing. The earliest notice which I have found of him from
an outsider is a passage in Crabb Robinson's diaries.[26] Robinson met him on July 10, 1811,
and describes him as a 'pious sentimentalist and moralist,' who spoke of his prospects 'with
more indifference than was perhaps right in a layman.' The notice is oddly characteristic.
From 1814 my father was for nine years a member of the committee of the Church Missionary Society,
after which time his occupations made attendance impossible. I have already indicated the family
connection with the Clapham sect, and my father's connection was now to be drawn still closer.
On December 22, 1814, he married Jane Catherine Venn, second daughter of the Rev. John Venn,
of Clapham.

IV. THE VENNS

My brother was of opinion that he inherited a greater share of the Venn than of the Stephen
characteristics. I certainly seem to trace in him a marked infusion of the sturdy common sense
of the Venns, which tempered the irritable and nervous temperament common to many of the Stephens.
The Venns were of the very blue blood of the party. They traced their descent through a long
line of clergymen to the time of Elizabeth.[27] The troubles of two loyalist Venns in the great
rebellion are briefly commemorated in Walker's 'Sufferings of the Clergy.' The first Venn who
is more than a name was a Richard Venn, who died in 1739. His name occasionally turns up in
the obscurer records of eighteenth-century theology. He was rector of St. Antholin's, in the
city of London, and incurred the wrath of the pugnacious Warburton and of Warburton's friend
(in early days) Conyers Middleton. He ventured to call Middleton an 'apostate priest'; and
Middleton retorted that if he alluded to a priest as the 'accuser,' everyone would understand
that he meant to refer to Mr. Venn. In fact, Venn had the credit of having denounced Thomas
Bundle, who, according to Pope, 'had a heart,' and according to Venn was a deist in disguise.
Bundle's reputation was so far damaged that his theology was thought too bad for Gloucester,
and, like other pieces of damaged goods, he was quartered upon the Irish Church.

Richard Venn married the daughter of the Jacobite conspirator John Ashton, executed for high
treason in 1691. His son Henry, born March 2, 1724, made a more enduring mark and became the
chief light of the movement which was contemporaneous with that led by Wesley and Whitefield,
though, as its adherents maintained, of independent origin. He was a sturdy, energetic man.
As a boy he had shown his principles by steadily thrashing the son of a dissenting minister
till he became the terror of the young schismatic. He played (his biographer says) in 1747
for Surrey against all England, and at the end of the match gave his bat to the first comer,
saying, 'I will never have it said of me, Well struck, Parson!' He was ordained a few days
later, and was 'converted by Law's "Serious Call."' While holding a curacy at Clapham he became
a friend of John Thornton, father of the better known Henry Thornton. John was a friend of
John Newton and of the poet Cowper, to whom he allowed money for charitable purposes, and both
he and his son were great lights at Clapham. From 1759 to 1771 Venn was vicar of Huddersfield,
and there became famous for eloquence and energy. His 'Complete Duty of Man'--the title is
adopted in contrast to the more famous 'Whole Duty of Man'--was as the sound of a trumpet to
the new party. For three generations it was the accepted manual of the sect and a trusted exposition
of their characteristic theology. Venn's health suffered from his pastoral labours at Huddersfield;
and from 1771 till near his death (June 24, 1797) he was rector of Yelling, in Huntingdonshire.
There his influence extended to the neighbouring University of Cambridge. The most eminent
Cambridge men of the day, Paley, and Watson, and Hey, were tending to a theology barely distinguishable
from the Unitarianism which some of them openly adopted. But a chosen few, denounced by their
enemies as methodistical, sought the spiritual guidance of Henry Venn. The most conspicuous
was Charles Simeon (1759-1836), who for many years was the object of veneration and of ridicule
for his uncouth eloquence in the pulpit of Trinity Church. Even to my own day, his disciples
and disciples' disciples were known to their opponents as 'Sims.'[28]

John Venn, son of this Henry Venn, born at Clapham in 1759, was brought up in the true faith.
He was a pupil of Joseph Milner, elder brother of the more famous Isaac Milner, and was afterwards,
like his father, at Sidney Sussex College. Simeon was one of his intimate friends. In 1792
Venn became rector of Clapham; and there provided the spiritual food congenial to the Thorntons,
the Shores, the Macaulays, the Wilberforces, and the Stephens. The value of his teaching may
be estimated by any one who will read three volumes of sermons published posthumously in 1814.
He died July 1, 1813; but his chief claim to remembrance is that he was the projector and one
of the original founders of the Church Missionary Society, in 1799, which was, as it has continued
to be, the most characteristic product of the evangelical party.'[29]

John Venn's children were of course intimate with the Stephens. In later life the sons, Henry
and John, had a great influence upon my father; Henry in particular was a man of very remarkable
character. He was educated by his father till 1813, when he was sent to live with Farish, then
Lucasian professor and resident at Chesterton, close to Cambridge. He was at Queen's College,
then flourishing under the patronage of evangelical parents attracted by Milner's fame; was
nineteenth wrangler in 1818, and for a time was fellow and tutor of his college. In 1827 Wilberforce
gave him the living of Drypool, a suburb of Hull, and there in 1829 he married Martha, fourth
daughter of Nicholas Sykes, of Swanland, Yorkshire. In 1834 he became vicar of St. John's,
Holloway, in the parish of Islington. About 1838 he became subject to an affection of the heart
caused mainly by his efforts in carrying his wife upstairs during her serious illness. The
physician told him that the heart might possibly adapt itself to a new condition, but that
the chances were greatly in favour of a fatal end to the illness. He was forced to retire for
two years from work, while his wife's illness developed into a consumption. She died March
21, 1840. Venn's closest relations used to speak with a kind of awe of the extraordinary strength
of his conjugal devotion. He was entreated to absent himself from some of the painful ceremonials
at her funeral, but declined. 'As if anything,' he said, 'could make any difference to me now.'
His own health, however, recovered contrary to expectation; and he resolutely took up his duties
in life. On October 5, 1841 he was appointed honorary secretary to the Church Missionary Society,
having been on the Committee since 1819, and he devoted the rest of his life to its service
with unflagging zeal. He gave up his living of 700l. a year and refused to take any remuneration
for his work. He was appointed by Bishop Blomfield to a prebend at St. Paul's, but received
and desired no other preferment. He gradually became infirm, and a few months before his death,
January 12, 1873, was compelled to resign his post. Henry Venn laboured through life in the
interests of a cause which seemed to him among the highest, and which even those who hold entirely
different opinions must admit to be a worthy one, the elevation that is, moral and spiritual,
of the lower races of mankind. He received no rewards except the approval of his conscience
and the sympathy of his fellows; and he worked with an energy rarely paralleled by the most
energetic public servant. His labours are described in a rather shapeless book[30] to which
I may refer for full details. But I must add a few words upon his character. Venn was not an
eloquent man either in the pulpit or on paper; nor can I ascribe him any power of speculative
thought. He had been from youth steeped in the evangelical doctrine, and was absolutely satisfied
with it to the last. 'I knew,' he once said, 'as a young man all that could be said against
Christianity, and I put the thoughts aside as temptations of the devil. They have never troubled
me since.' Nor was he more troubled by the speculative tendencies of other parties in the Church.
His most obvious mental characteristic was a shrewd common sense, which one of his admirers
suggests may have been caught by contagion in his Yorkshire living. In truth it was an innate
endowment shared by others of his family. In him it was combined with a strong sense of humour
which is carefully kept out of his writing, and which, as I used to fancy, must have been at
times a rather awkward endowment. The evangelical party has certain weaknesses to which, so
far as I know, my uncle contrived to shut his eyes. The humour, however, was always bubbling
up in his talk, and combined as it was with invariable cheeriness of spirit, with a steady
flow of the strongest domestic affection, and with a vigorous and confident judgment, made
him a delightful as well as an impressive companion. Although outside of the paths which lead
to preferment or to general reputation, he carried a great weight in all the counsels of his
party. His judgment, no doubt, entitled him to their respect. Though a most devoted clergyman,
he had some of the qualities which go to make a thoroughly trustworthy lawyer. He was a marked
exception to the famous observation of Clarendon that 'the clergymen understand the least,
and take the worst measure of human affairs of all mankind that can write and read.' Henry
Venn's example showed that the clergyman's gown need not necessarily imply disqualification
for a thorough man of business. He was a man to do thoroughly whatever he undertook. 'What
a mercy it is,' said his sister Emelia, 'that Henry is a good man, for good or bad he could
never repent.'

His younger brother, John, was a man of much less intellectual force but of singular charm
of character. In 1833 he became incumbent of a church at Hereford in the gift of the Simeon
trustees, and lived there till his death in 1890, having resigned his living about 1870. He
had the simplicity of character of a Dr. Primrose, and was always overflowing with the kindliest
feelings towards his relatives and mankind in general. His enthusiasm was, directed not only
to religious ends but to various devices for the physical advantage of mankind. He set up a
steam corn mill in Hereford, which I believe worked very successfully for the supply of pure
flour to his parishioners, and he had theories about the production of pigs and poultry upon
which he could dilate with amusing fervour. He showed his principles in a public disputation
with a Roman Catholic priest at Hereford. I do not know that either of them converted anybody;
but John Venn's loveableness was not dependent upon dialectical ability. He was accepted, I
may say, as the saint of our family; and Aylstone Hill, Hereford, where he lived with his unmarried
sister Emelia, (a lady who in common sense and humour strongly resembled her brother Henry),
was a place of pilgrimage to which my father frequently resorted, and where we all found a
model of domestic happiness.

The youngest sister, Caroline, married the Rev. Ellis Batten, a master at Harrow School. He
died young in 1830, and she was left with two daughters, the elder of whom, now Mrs. Russell
Gurney, survives, and was in early years one of the most familiar members of our inner home circle.

