1-1/2 cups sugar. 1/2 cup butter and lard. 3 small eggs or 2 large ones. 1/2 teaspoonful saleratus.
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. Grated yellow rind and juice of half a lemon.

Beat sugar and butter to a cream and add the yolks of eggs. Add the milk, then the flour and
cream of tartar and saleratus; and the flavoring. Lastly, the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs.

This makes one loaf cake. The original of this recipe was a very old one which Frau Schmidt
had used many years. Every ingredient in the old recipe was doubled, except the eggs, when
five were used. Mary thought this cake fine and from the recipe, when she used half the quantity
of everything, she baked a fine loaf cake, and from the original recipe was made one good sized
loaf and one layer cake. Thinly sliced citron added to this cake is a great improvement.

FINE "KRUM KUCHEN"

Crumb together with the hands the sugar, butter, flour and baking powder sifted together. Take
out 1/2 cup of these crumbs to be scattered over top of cake. To the remainder add the yolks
of the eggs, well beaten, and the sweet milk, and lastly the stiffly beaten whites of eggs.
Put the mixture in a well-greased pan (a deep custard pie tin will answer), scatter the half
cup of crumbs reserved over top of cake and bake about 3/4 of an hour in a rather quick oven.
When cake is baked, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful of melted butter and dust top with cinnamon.

AUNT SARAH'S "QUICK DUTCH CAKES"

She creamed together 1 cup of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of lard, 1 tablespoonful of butter and
added 1-1/2 cups of luke-warm milk. Add 3 cups flour (good measure), sifted with three scant
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Add a half cup of raisins, seeded and cut in several pieces,
if liked, but the cakes are very good without. Spread in two pans and sprinkle sugar and cinnamon
on top and press about five small dabs of butter on top of each cake. Put in oven and bake
at once. These are a very good substitute for "raised Dutch cakes," and are much more quickly
and easily-made and, as no eggs are used, are quite cheap and very good.

A RELIABLE LAYER CAKE

1-1/4 cups granulated sugar. 3 eggs. 1/2 cup butter and lard mixed.

Cream together sugar and shortening. Add yolks of eggs, beating well, as each ingredient is
added. Then add milk and flour alternately, and lastly the stiffly beaten white of eggs. Stir
all together. Bake in two square layer pans, and put together with chocolate or white icing.
Or ice the cakes when cold and cut in squares.

BOILED ICING

Boil together 1 cup of granulated sugar and 5 tablespoonfuls boiling water ten or twelve minutes,
or until a small quantity dropped from spoon spins a thread. Stir this into the stiffly-beaten
white of one egg until thick and creamy. Flavor with lemon, almond or vanilla flavoring and
spread on cake. Dip knife in hot water occasionally when spreading icing on cake.

A delicious icing is composed of almonds blanched and pounded to a paste. Add a few drops of
essence of bitter almonds. Dust the top of the cake lightly with flour, spread on the almond
paste and when nearly dry cover with ordinary icing. Dry almonds before pounding them in mortar,
and use a small quantity of rose water. A few drops only should be used of essence of bitter
almonds to flavor icing or cake. A pinch of baking powder added to sugar when making boiled
icing causes the icing to become more creamy, or add a pinch of cream of tartar when making
boiled icing. Or, when a cake iced with "boiled icing" has become cold, spread on top of icing
unsweetened, melted chocolate. This is a delicious "cream chocolate icing."

A DELICIOUS "SPICE LAYER CAKE"

2 cups light brown sugar. 1 cup chopped raisins. 2 eggs. 1 cup sour milk. 1/2 cup butter. 2
cups flour. 1 teaspoonful each of soda, cloves, cinnamon, allspice and a little grated nutmeg.

Cream sugar and butter together, add yolks of eggs, then the sour milk in which the soda has
been dissolved, flour and spices, and lastly stir in the stiffly beaten white of eggs. Bake
in two-layer pans.

ICING

Two cups sugar, 3/4 cup of milk or cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Boil until it forms a
soft ball when a small quantity is dropped in water, and flavor with vanilla. Beat until cold
and spread between layers of cake. Also on top and sides.

AN INEXPENSIVE COCOA CAKE

This is a decidedly good cake and no eggs are required. Cream together 1 cup brown sugar, 1/4
cup butter. Add 1 cup of sour milk, 1-3/4 cups flour, then sift over 1-1/2 tablespoonfuls of
cocoa. Add 1 level teaspoonful saleratus, dissolved in a little of the sour milk, and 1 teaspoonful
vanilla. Bake in a small loaf. Use the following icing:

1/4 cup of grated chocolate, 3/4 cup milk, 1/2 cup sugar, boiled together until thick, and
spread on cake.

AUNT SARAH'S WALNUT GINGERBREAD

1/2 cup of New Orleans molasses. 1 cup of light brown sugar. 1/2 cup of shortening (composed
of butter, lard and sweet drippings). 1/2 teaspoonful of ginger, cinnamon and cloves each.
2 teaspoonfuls of baking soda (saleratus), sifted with 3-1/2 cups flour. 1 cup boiling water.
2 eggs.

Beat to a cream the sugar and shortening in a bowl; add molasses, then pour over all one cup
of boiling water. Beat well. Add flour, soda and spices, all sifted together. Beat into this
the two unbeaten eggs (one at a time), then add about 3/4 of a cup of coarsely chopped black
walnut meats or the same quantity of well-floured raisins may be substituted for the walnut meats.

The cakes may be baked in muffin pans. In that case fill pans about two-thirds full. The above
quantity makes eighteen. They can also be baked in a pan as a loaf cake. This cake is excellent,
and will keep fresh several days. These cakes taste similar to those sold in an Atlantic City
bake-shop which have gained a reputation for their excellence.

AUNT SARAH'S "GERMAN CRUMB CAKES" BAKED IN CRUSTS

3 cups flour. 2-1/2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder. 2 cups sugar (soft A or light brown).
1/2 cup lard and butter mixed. 2 eggs. 1 cup sweet milk. Pinch of salt. Flavoring--vanilla
or grated orange rind.

Line three small pie tins with pie crust. Sift together into a bowl the flour and baking powder
and add light brown or A sugar, and the butter, lard and salt. Rub this all together with the
hands until well mixed and crumbly. Take out 1 cupful of these crumbs and stand aside. Add
to the rest of the mixture the yolks of eggs, whites being beaten separately and added last.
Add slowly 1 cup of sweet milk. Mix it in gradually until the mixture is creamed, then add
a small quantity of grated orange peel, lemon or vanilla flavoring. Lastly, stir in the stiffly
beaten whites of eggs. Pour the mixture into each one of the three unbaked crusts, then sprinkle
the cup of crumbs thickly over the tops. Bake in a moderate oven. These are very good, cheap
cakes for breakfast or lunch.

"SOUR CREAM" MOLASSES CAKE

1/2 cup molasses. 1 cup sugar. 1/2 cup thick sour cream. 1/2 cup sour milk. 1/2 cup finely
chopped peanuts. 1 egg. 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in little hot water. 2-3/4 cups flour.
1 cup seeded raisins.

Mix together like ordinary cake. Bake in a fruit cake pan in a slow oven about forty minutes.
This excellent cake requires no shortening, as cream is used.

ECONOMY CAKE

1 egg. 1 cup sweet milk. 1 cup granulated sugar. 2 cups flour. 1/4 cup butter. 2 teaspoonfuls
baking powder.

Cream together sugar and yolk of egg, then beat into this mixture the butter and add the milk.
Then stir the flour, a small quantity at a time, into the mixture, keeping it smooth and free
from lumps. Add the stiffly beaten white of egg. Use any flavoring or spice preferred. Bake
in a quick oven.

This is not simply a very cheap cake, but a decidedly good one, and made from inexpensive materials.
Follow the recipe exactly or the cake may be too light and too crumbly if too much baking powder
is used, or heavy if too much butter is used. By varying the flavor and baking in different
forms it is as good as a number of more expensive recipes. It makes three layers of any kind
of layer cake, or bake in Gem pans.

GINGER CAKE

1/2 cup brown sugar. 1 egg. 1/2 cup lard. 2 large cups flour. 1/2 cup New Orleans molasses.
1 tablespoonfnl of ginger. 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in half cup lukewarm water.

Beat sugar and lard to a cream, then beat in the yolk of egg, molasses and flour and soda dissolved
in water. Lastly, add the stiffly-beaten white of egg. Bake 45 minutes in hot oven.

A VERY ECONOMICAL GERMAN CLOVE CAKE

Place in a stew-pan the following ingredients:

1 cup brown sugar. 1 cup cold water. 2 cups seeded raisins. 1/3 cup sweet lard, or a mixture
of lard and butter. 1/4 grated nutmeg. 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon. 1/2 teaspoonful ground cloves.
Pinch of salt.

Boil all together three minutes. When cold add I teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little
hot water. Add about 1-3/4 cups flour sifted with 1/2 teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake in
a loaf in a moderately hot oven about thirty minutes. This cake is both good and economical,
as no butter, eggs or milk are used in its composition. The recipe for making this excellent,
cheap cake was bought by Aunt Sarah at a "Cake and Pie" sale. She was given permission to pass
it on.

ICING.

1 small cup pulverized sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of cocoa.

Mix smooth with a very little boiling water. Spread over cake.

CAKE ICING FOR VARIOUS CAKES

Cook together 2 cups of granulated sugar, 1-1/4 cups of water a little less than 12 minutes.
Just before it reaches the soft ball stage, beat in quickly 25 marshmallows; when dissolved
and a thick, creamy mass, spread between layers and on top of cake.

This is a delicious creamy icing when made according to directions. If sugar and water be cooked
one minute too long, the icing becomes sugary instead of creamy. One-half the above quantity
will ice the top of a cake nicely.

MARY'S RECIPE FOR "HOT MILK" SPONGE CAKE

For this cake was used:

2 cups granulated sugar. 4 eggs. 2-1/8 cups flour. 1-1/2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 1 cup
boiling hot milk.

Separate the eggs, place yolks in a bowl, add the sugar and beat until creamy.

Add the stiffly beaten whites of eggs alternately with the sifted flour and baking powder;
lastly add the cup of boiling hot milk; should the milk not be rich, add one teaspoon of butter
to the hot milk. The cake batter should be thin as griddle cake batter, pour into a tube pan
and place at once in a very moderate oven; in about 15 minutes increase the heat and in about
25 minutes more the cake, risen to the top of pan, should have commenced to brown on top.

Bake from 15 to 20 minutes more in a moderately hot oven with steady heat; when baked the top
of the cake should be a light fawn color and texture of cake light and fine grained.

Mary was told by her Aunt that any sponge cake was improved by the addition of a teaspoon of
butter, causing the sponge cake to resemble pound cake in texture.

CHEAP "MOLASSES GINGER BREAD"

1 cup New Orleans molasses. 1 cup sugar. 1/2 cup shortening (lard and butter mixed). 1 cup
hot water. 1 large teaspoonful soda dissolved in the one cup of hot water. 1 teaspoonful of
ginger. 1/2 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 1 quart of flour.

Stir sugar and shortening together. Add molasses, beat all thoroughly, then add hot water and
flour. Stir hard. Bake in two layer pans in quick oven about 30 minutes. Use cake while fresh.

AUNT SARAH'S EXTRA FINE LARGE SPONGE CAKE

2 cups granulated sugar. 2-1/4 cups of flour. 3/4 cup of boiling water. 4 large eggs. 2 even
teaspoonfuls baking powder. 1 teaspoonful lemon juice.

Put whites of eggs in a large mixing bowl and beat very stiff. Add sugar (sifted 3 times),
then add the well-beaten yolks, flour (sifted 3 times with baking powder), add lemon juice.
Lastly, add the hot water. Bake about 50 minutes in a tube pan in a moderately hot oven with
a steady heat. Stand a pan of hot water in the upper rack of oven if the oven is quite hot.
It improves the cake and causes it to be more moist. This is an excellent sponge cake and easily
made, although the ingredients are put together the opposite way cakes are usually mixed, with
the exception of angel cake. When this cake was taken from oven, powdered sugar was sifted
thickly over the top. Use cup holding 1/2 pint, as in all other cake recipes.

ANGEL CAKE--AUNT SARAH'S RECIPE

Mary was taught by her Aunt, when preparing a dish calling for yolks of eggs only, to place
the white of eggs not used in a glass jar which she stood in a cold place or on ice. When she
had saved one even cupful she baked an angel cake over the following recipe:

One heaping cup of pulverized sugar (all the cup will hold), was sifted 8 times. One cup of
a mixture of pastry flour and corn starch (equal parts) was also sifted 8 times. The whole
was then sifted together 4 times. The one cupful of white of eggs was beaten very stiff. When
about half beaten, sprinkle over the partly-beaten eggs one scant teaspoonful of cream of tartar,
then finish beating the whites of eggs. Flavor with almond or vanilla. Then carefully sift
into the stiffly beaten whites of eggs sugar, flour and corn starch. Fold into the whites of
eggs rather than stir. Aunt Sarah always baked this cake in a small, oblong bread pan. This
cake should be baked in a very moderate oven, one in which the hand might be held without inconvenience
while counting one hundred; the oven should be just hot enough for one to know there was fire
in the range. Do not open the oven door for 15 minutes, then increase the heat a little; if
not too hot, open the oven door a moment to cool and bake slowly for about 55 minutes.

AUNT SARAH'S GOOD AND CHEAP "COUNTRY FRUIT CAKE"

1 cup butter and lard, mixed. 4 eggs. 1 cup New Orleans molasses. 1 cup sour milk. 1 pound
dried currants. 1/4 pound thinly sliced citron. 2 teaspoonfuls baking soda. 4 cups flour. 2
pounds raisins, seeded.

A little grated nutmeg, ginger, cinnamon and a very small quantity of cloves.

Bake in one large fruit cake pan or in two good sized pans about 1-3/4 hours. This cake should
not be kept as long a time as a more expensive fruit cake, but may be kept several weeks. This
was Aunt Sarah's best recipe for an excellent, inexpensive fruit cake.

A "SPONGE CUSTARD" CAKE

4 eggs. 2 cups granulated sugar. 3 cups flour. 1 teaspoonful baking soda. 1 cup cold water.
Juice of 1 lemon. 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and pinch of salt.

Beat eggs well, then sift in sugar and half of flour in which cream of tartar has been mixed.
Dissolve the soda in a little water and add also the lemon juice and lastly add the balance
of flour. Bake in layer cake pans two inches deep.

CUSTARD

Boil 1 pint of sweet milk and add to it, stirring constantly, the following mixture: Two tablespoonfuls
corn starch, mixed with a little water before boiling, 1 cup of sugar and 1 well-beaten egg.
Allow all to cook a few minutes in a double boiler about 15 minutes. Split the sponge cakes
when baked and put custard between when cooled.

GRANDMOTHER'S EXCELLENT "OLD RECIPE" FOR MARBLE CAKE

LIGHT PART.

1-3/4 cups granulated sugar. 1 scant cup butter or a mixture of butter and lard. Whites of
6 eggs. 1 cup milk. 3 scant cups flour sifted with 2 teaspoons of baking powder. Flavor with
essence of lemon.

DARK PART.

Yolks of 4 eggs. 1/2 cup of a mixture of butter and lard. 3/4 cup milk (scant measure). 1/2
cup brown sugar. 1 tablespoon of molasses. 2 tablespoons of cinnamon. 1 tablespoon of cloves.

One cup or a little more flour sifted with one teaspoon of baking powder. Place spoonfuls of
the dark and light batter alternately in a cake pan until all has been used.

Bake in a moderately hot oven from 45 to 50 minutes.

From this recipe may be made two good sized cakes.

I should advise using one-half the quantity for both dark and light part of cake called for
in recipe, which would make one good sized cake. Should this whole recipe be used, the cake
baked from it would be of the size of a very large fruit cake.

MARY'S MOLASSES CAKES

She creamed together 1 cup of light brown sugar and 2 tablespoonfuls of butter. Then added
1 cup of New Orleans molasses. The molasses had been allowed to come to a boil, then cooled.

She sifted into the mixture 4 cups of flour alternately with 1 cup of sweet milk in which 2
even teaspoonfuls of soda had been dissolved. She beat all well together, then added yolk of
one large egg, and lastly the stiffly beaten white of the egg. Beat the mixture again and bake
in 2 square layer cake pans in a hot oven about 25 minutes. This is an excellent cake if directions
are closely followed.

CHOCOLATE ICING FOR MOLASSES CAKE.

Boil 1 scant half cup water with 1 cup sugar until it spins a thread, or forms a soft, firm
ball in cold water. Pour slowly over the stiffly beaten white of egg, beating while it is being
poured. Melt 2 squares or 2 ounces of unsweetened chocolate by standing the bowl containing
it in hot water. Add 1 teaspoonful hot water to chocolate. Stir the egg and sugar mixture slowly
into the melted chocolate. Beat until stiff enough to spread on cake. 3/4 cup milk. Whites
of 4 eggs. 1 cup hickory nut meats, chopped.

Mix together as ordinary cake. Bake in a loaf.

"LIGHT BROWN" SUGAR CAKE

Three cupfuls of light brown sugar, 1/2 cup of sweet lard and yolk of one egg creamed together
until light. Then add 1-1/2 cups sour milk alternately with 4 cups of flour and 1-1/2 teaspoonfuls
of cinnamon; 1-1/2 teaspoonfuls of ginger, 1/2 teaspoonful of cloves and half of a grated nutmeg,
1 tablespoonful of thinly shaved or grated citron is an improvement to cake, but may be omitted.
Beat all together, then add 1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a small quantity of the sour
milk. Lastly, add the stiffly beaten white of one egg and one cup seeded raisins dredged with
a little flour. Put the cake batter in a large, well-greased fruit cake pan, lined with paper
which had been greased and a trifle of flour sifted over, and bake in an oven with a steady
heat about one hour and fifteen minutes. This is a very good, inexpensive cake and will keep
moist some time if kept in a tin cake box. The fruit might be omitted, but it improves the cake.

"ANGEL FOOD" LAYER CAKE

1 cup and 2 tablespoonfuls granulated sugar. 1-1\2 cups flour. 1 cup and 2 tablespoonfuls scalded
milk. 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Pinch of salt. Whites of 2 eggs.

Place milk in top part of double boiler and heat to boiling point. Sift dry ingredients together
four times and then pour in the hot milk and stir well together. Lastly, add the stiffly beaten
whites of eggs. Fold them in lightly, but do not beat. The batter will be quite thin. Do not
grease the tins. No flavoring is used. Bake in two square layer tins, put together with any
icing preferred. Bake in a moderate oven. This is a good, economical cake to bake when yolks
of eggs have been used for other purposes. Boil all together until thick as cream; allow it
to cool.

Mix 1/2 cup of butter with 1/2 cup of brown sugar. Add two beaten eggs, 2/3 of a cup of sweet
milk and vanilla flavoring to taste. Bake in three layers and put together with chocolate icing,
or cocoa filling.

COCOA FILLING.

1-1/2 cups pulverized sugar. 1 tablespoonful butter, melted. 2-1/2 tablespoonfuls cocoa.

