"I call you--I, Mirza the Emir. Thy time has come. Christ and Irene. Now!"

With the word the Count struck the Janissary fairly on the flat cap with his axe, bringing
him to his knees. Almost simultaneously a heavy stone descended upon the dazed man from a higher
part of the wall, and he rolled backward down the steep.

Constantine and Justiniani, with others, joined the Count, but too late. Of the fifty comrades
composing Hassan's file, thirty mounted the rampart. Eighteen of them were slain in the bout.
Corti raged like a lion; but up rushed the survivors of the next file--and the next--and the
vantage-point was lost. The Genoese, seeing it, said:

"Your Majesty, let us retire."

"Is it time?"

"We must get a ditch between us and this new horde, or we are all dead men."

Then the Emperor shouted: "Back, every one! For love of Christ and Holy Church, back to the
galley!"

The guns, machines, store of missiles, and space occupied by the battery were at once abandoned.
Constantine and Corti went last, facing the foe, who warily paused to see what they had next
to encounter.

The secondary defence to which the Greeks resorted consisted of the hulk brought up, as we
have seen, by Count Corti, planted on its keel squarely in rear of the breach, and filled with
stones. From the hulk, on right and left, wings of uncemented masonry extended to the main
wall in form thus:

A ditch fronted the line fifteen feet in width and twelve in depth, provided with movable planks
for hasty passage. Culverins were on the hulk, with ammunition in store.

Greatly to the relief of the jaded Christians, who, it is easy believing, stood not on the
order of going, they beheld the reserves, under Demetrius Palaeologus and Nicholas Giudalli,
in readiness behind the refuge.

The Emperor, on the deck, raised the visor of his helmet, and looked up at an Imperial flag
drooping in the stagnant air from a stump of the mast. Whatever his thought or feeling, no
one could discern on his countenance an unbecoming expression. The fact, of which he must have
been aware, that this stand taken ended his empire forever, had not shaken his resolution or
confidence. To Demetrius Palaeologus, who had lent a hand helping him up the galley's side,
he said: "Thank you, kinsman. God may still be trusted. Open fire."

The Janissaries, astonished at the new and strange defence, would have retreated, but could
not; the files ascending behind drove them forward. At the edge of the ditch the foremost of
them made a despairing effort to resist the pressure rushing them to their fate--down they
went in mass, in their last service no better than the hordesmen--clods they became--clods
in bright harness instead of bull-hide and shaggy astrakhan.

From the wings, bolts and stones; from the height of the wall, bolts and stones; from the hulk,
grapeshot; and the rattle upon the shields of the Faithful was as the passing of empty chariots
over a Pompeiian street. Imprecations, prayers, yells, groans, shrieks, had lodgement only
in the ear of the Most Merciful. The open maw of a ravenous monster swallowing the column fast
as Mahommed down by the great moat drove it on--such was the new ditch.

Yet another, the final horror. When the ditch was partially filled, the Christians brought
jugs of the inflammable liquid contributed to the defence by John Grant; and cast them down
on the writhing heap. Straightway the trench became a pocket of flame, or rather an oven from
which the smell of roasting human flesh issued along with a choking cloud!

The besieged were exultant, as they well might be--they were more than holding the redoubtable
Flower of the Faithful at bay--there was even a merry tone in their battle-cry. About that
time a man dismounted from a foaming horse, climbed the rough steps to the deck of the galley,
and delivered a message to the Emperor.

"Your Majesty. John Grant, Minotle the bayle, Carystos, Langasco, and Jerome the Italian are
slain. Blacherne is in possession of the Turks, and they are marching this way. The hordes
are in the streets. I saw them, and heard the bursting of doors, and the screams of women."

Constantine crossed himself three times, and bowed his head.

Justiniani turned the color of ashes, and exclaimed:

"We are undone--undone! All is lost!" And that his voice was hoarse did not prevent the words
being overheard. The fire slackened--ceased. Men fighting jubilantly dropped their arms, and
took up the cry--"All is lost! The hordes are in, the hordes are in!"

Doubtless Count Corti's thought sped to the fair woman waiting for him in the chapel, yet he
kept clear head.

"Your Majesty," he said, "my Berbers are without. I will take them, and hold the Turks in check
while you draw assistance from the walls. Or"--he hesitated, "or I will defend your person
to the ships. It is not too late."

Indeed, there was ample time for the Emperor's escape. The Berbers were keeping his horse with
Corti's. He had but to mount, and ride away. No doubt he was tempted. There is always some
sweetness in life, especially to the blameless. He raised his head, and said to Justiniani:

"Captain, my guard will remain here. To keep the galley they have only to keep the fire alive
in the ditch. You and I will go out to meet the enemy." ... Then he addressed himself to Corti:
"To horse, Count, and bring Theophilus Palaeologus. He is on the wall between this gate and
the gate Selimbria.... Ho, Christian gentlemen," he continued, to the soldiers closing around
him, "all is not lost. The Bochiardi at the Adrianople gate have not been heard from. To fly
from an unseen foe were shameful, We are still hundreds strong. Let us descend, and form. God
cannot"--

That instant Justiniani uttered a loud cry, and dropped the axe he was holding. An arrow had
pierced the scales of his gauntlet, and disabled his hand. The pain, doubtless, was great,
and he started hastily as if to descend from the deck. Constantine called out:

"Captain, Captain!"

"Give me leave, Your Majesty, to go and have this wound dressed."

"Where, Captain?"

"To my ship."

The Emperor threw his visor up--his face was flushed--in his soul indignation contended with
astonishment.

"No, Captain, the wound cannot he serious; and besides, how canst thou get to thy ships?"

Justiniani looked over the bulwark of the vessel. The alley from the gate ran on between houses
abutting the towers. A ball from one of Mahommed's largest guns had passed through the right-hand
building, leaving a ragged fissure. Thither the Captain now pointed.

"God opened that breach to let the Turks in. I will go out by it."

He stayed no longer, but went down the steps, and in haste little short of a run disappeared
through the fissure so like a breach.

The desertion was in view of his Genoese, of whom a few followed him, but not all. Many who
had been serving the guns took swords and pikes, and gathering about the Emperor, cried out:

"Give orders, Your Majesty. We will bide with you."

He returned them a look full of gratitude.

"I thank you, gentlemen. Let us go down, and join our shields across the street. To my guard
I commit defence of the galley."

Unfastening the purple half-cloak at his back, and taking off his helmet, he called to his
sword-bearer: "Here, take thou these, and give me my sword.... Now, gallant gentlemen--now,
my brave countrymen--we will put ourselves in the keeping of Heaven. Come!"

They had not all gained the ground, however, when there arose a clamor in their front, and
the hordesmen appeared, and blocking up the passage, opened upon them with arrows and stones,
while such as had javelins and swords attacked them hand to hand.

The Christians behaved well, but none better than Constantine. He fought with strength, and
in good countenance; his blade quickly reddened to the hilt.

"Strike, my countrymen, for city and home. Strike, every one, for Christ and Holy Church!"

And answering him: "Christ and Holy Church!" they all fought as they had strength, and their
swords were also reddened to the hilt. Quarter was not asked; neither was it given. Theirs
to hold the ground, and they held it. They laid the hordesmen out over it in scattered heaps
which grew, and presently became one long heap the width of the alley; and they too fell, but,
as we are willing to believe, unconscious of pain because lapped in the delirium of battle-fever.

Five minutes--ten--fifteen--then through the breach by which Justiniani ingloriously fled Theophilus
Palaeologus came with bared brand to vindicate his imperial blood by nobly dying; and with
him came Count Corti, Francesco de Toledo, John the Dalmatian, and a score and more Christian
gentlemen who well knew the difference between an honorable death and a dishonored life.

Steadily the sun arose. Half the street was in its light, the other half in its shade; yet
the struggle endured; nor could any man have said God was not with the Christians. Suddenly
a louder shouting arose behind them. They who could, looked to see what it meant, and the bravest
stood stone still at sight of the Janissaries swarming on the galley. Over the roasting bodies
of their comrades, undeterred by the inextinguishable fire, they had crossed the ditch, and
were slaying the imperial body-guard. A moment, and they would be in the alley, and then--

Up rose a wail: "The Janissaries, the Janissaries! Kyrie Eleison!" Through the knot of Christians
it passed--it reached Constantine in the forefront, and he gave way to the antagonist with
whom he was engaged.

"God receive my soul!" he exclaimed; and dropping his sword, he turned about, and rushed back
with wide extended arms.

"Friends--countrymen!--Is there no Christian to kill me?"

Then they understood why he had left his helmet off.

While those nearest stared at him, their hearts too full of pity to do him the last favor one
can ask of another, from the midst of the hordesmen there came a man of singular unfitness
for such a scene--indeed a delicate woman had not been more out of place--for he was small,
stooped, withered, very white haired, very pale, and much bearded--a black velvet cap on his
head, and a gown of the like about his body, unarmed, and in every respect unmartial. He seemed
to glide in amongst the Christians as he had glided through the close press of the Turks; and
as the latter had given him way, so now the sword points of the Christians went down--men in
the heat of action forgot themselves, and became bystanders--such power was there in the unearthly
eyes of the apparition.

"Is there no Christian to kill me?" cried the Emperor again.

The man in velvet stood before him.

"Prince of India!"

"You know me? It is well; for now I know you are not beyond remembering." The voice was shrill
and cutting, yet it shrilled and cut the sharper.

"Remember the day I called on you to acknowledge God, and give him his due of worship. Remember
the day I prayed you on my knees to lend me your power to save my child, stolen for a purpose
by all peoples held unholy. Behold your executioner!"

He stepped back, and raised a hand; and ere one of those standing by could so much as cry to
God, Nilo, who, in the absorption of interest in his master, had followed him unnoticed--Nilo,
gorgeous in his barbarisms of Kash-Cush, sprang into the master's place. He did not strike;
but with infinite cruel cunning of hand--no measurable lapse of time ensuing--drew the assegai
across the face of the astonished Emperor. Constantine--never great till that moment of death,
but then great forever--fell forward upon his shield, calling in strangled utterance: "God
receive my soul!"

The savage set his foot upon the mutilated countenance, crushing it into a pool of blood. An
instant, then through the petrified throng, knocking them right and left, Count Corti appeared.

"For Christ and Irene!" he shouted, dashing the spiked boss of his shield into Nilo's eyes--down
upon the feathered coronal he brought his sword--and the negro fell sprawling upon the Emperor.

Oblivious to the surroundings, Count Corti, on his knees, raised the Emperor's head, slightly
turning the face--one look was enough. "His soul is sped!" he said; and while he was tenderly
replacing the head, a hand grasped his cap. He sprang to his feet. Woe to the intruder, if
an enemy! The sword which had known no failure was drawn back to thrust-- above the advanced
foot the shield hung in ready poise--between him and the challenger there was only a margin
of air and the briefest interval of time--his breath was drawn, and his eyes gleamed with vengeful
murder --but--some power invisible stayed his arm, and into his memory flashed the lightning
of recognition.

"Prince of India," he shouted, "never wert thou nearer death!"

"Thou--liest! Death--and--I"--

The words were long drawn between gasps, and the speech was never finished. The tongue thickened,
then paralyzed. The features, already distorted with passion, swelled, and blackened horribly.
The eyes rolled back--the hands flew up, the fingers apart and rigid--the body rocked-- stiffened--then
fell, sliding from the Count's shield across the dead Emperor.

The combat meantime had gone on. Corti, with a vague feeling that the Prince's flight of soul
was a mystery in keeping with his life, took a second to observe him, and muttered: "Peace
to him also!"

Looking about him then, he was made aware that the Christians, attacked in front and rear,
were drawing together around the body of Constantine-- that their resistance was become the
last effort of brave men hopeless except of the fullest possible payment for their lives. This
was succeeded by a conviction of duty done on his part, and of every requirement of honor fulfilled;
thereupon with a great throb of heart, his mind reverted to the Princess Irene waiting for
him in the chapel. He must go to her. But how? And was it not too late?

There are men whose wits are supernaturally quickened by danger. The Count, pushing through
the intervening throng, boldly presented himself to the Janissaries, shouting while warding
the blows they aimed at him:

"Have done, O madmen! See you not I am your comrade, Mirza the Emir? Have done, I say, and
let me pass. I have a message for the Padishah!"

He spoke Turkish, and having been an idol in the barracks--their best swordsman--envied, and
at the same time beloved--they knew him, and with acclamations opened their files, and let
him pass.

By the fissure which had served Justiniani, he escaped from the terrible alley, and finding
his Berbers and his horse, rode with speed for the residence of the Princess Irene.

Not a Christian survived the combat. Greek, Genoese, Italian lay in ghastly composite with
hordesmen and mailed Moslems around the Emperor. In dying they had made good their battle-cry--For
Christ and Holy Church! Let us believe they will yet have their guerdon.

About an hour after the last of them had fallen, when the narrow passage was deserted by the
living--the conquerors having moved on in search of their hire--the Prince of India aroused,
and shook himself free of the corpses cumbering him. Upon his knees he gazed at the dead--then
at the place--then at the sky. He rubbed his hands--made sure he was sound of person--he seemed
uncertain, not of life, but of himself. In fact, he was asking, Who am I? And the question
had reference to the novel sensations of which he was conscious. What was it coursing through
his veins? Wine?--Elixir?--Some new principle which, hidden away amongst the stores of nature,
had suddenly evolved for him? The weights of age were gone. In his body--bones, arms, limbs,
muscles--he recognized once more the glorious impulses of youth; but his mind--he started--the
ideas which had dominated him were beginning to return--and memory! It surged back upon him,
and into its wonted chambers, like a wave which, under pressure of a violent wind, has been
momentarily driven from a familiar shore. He saw, somewhat faintly at first, the events which
had been promontories and lofty peaks cast up out of the level of his long existence. Then
THAT DAY and THAT EVENT! How distinctly they reappeared to him! They must be the same--must
be--for he beheld the multitude on its way to Calvary, and the Victim tottering under the Cross;
he heard the Tribune ask, "Ho, is this the street to Golgotha?" He heard his own answer, "I
will guide you;" and he spit upon the fainting Man of Sorrows, and struck him. And then the
words--"TARRY THOU TILL I COME!" identified him to himself. He looked at his hands--they were
black with what had been some other man's life-blood, but under the stain the skin was smooth--a
little water would make them white. And what was that upon his breast? Beard--beard black as
a raven's wing! He plucked a lock of hair from his head. It, too, was thick with blood, but
it was black. Youth--youth--joyous, bounding, eager, hopeful youth was his once more! He stood
up, and there was no creak of rust in the hinges of his joints; he knew he was standing inches
higher in the sunlit air; and a cry burst from him--"O God, I give thanks!" The hymn stopped
there, for between him and the sky, as if it were ascending transfigured, he beheld the Victim
of the Crucifixion; and the eyes, no longer sad, but full of accusing majesty, were looking
downward at him, and the lips were in speech: "TARRY THOU TILL I COME!" He covered his face
with his hands. Yes, yes, he had his youth back again, but it was with the old mind and nature--youth,
that the curse upon him might, in the mortal sense, be eternal! And pulling his black hair
with his young hands, wrenching at his black beard, it was given him to see he had undergone
his fourteenth transformation, and that between this one and the last there was no lapse of
connection. Old age had passed, leaving the conditions and circumstances of its going to the
youth which succeeded. The new life in starting picked up and loaded itself with every burden
and all the misery of the old. So now while burrowing, as it were, amongst dead men, his head
upon the breast of the Emperor whom, treating Nilo as an instrument in his grip, he had slain,
he thought most humanly of the effects of the transformation.

First of all, his personal identity was lost, and he was once more a Wanderer without an acquaintance,
a friend, or a sympathizer on the earth. To whom could he now address himself with a hope of
recognition? His heart went out primarily to Lael--he loved her. Suppose he found her, and
offered to take her in his arms; she would repulse him. "Thou art not my father. He was old--thou
art young." And Syama, whose bereavements of sense had recommended him for confidant in the
event of his witnessing the dreaded circumstance just befallen--if he addressed himself to
Syama, the faithful creature would deny him. "No; my master was old--his hair and beard were
white--thou art a youth. Go hence." And then Mahommed, to whom he had been so useful in bringing
additional empire, and a glory which time would make its own forever--did he seek Mahommed
again--"Thou art not the Prince of India, my peerless Messenger of the Stars. He was old--his
hair and beard were white--thou art a boy. Ho, guards, take this impostor, and do with him
as ye did with Balta-Ogli stretch him on the ground, and beat the breath out of him."

