STORIES OF ACHIEVEMENT, VOLUME IV

Authors and Journalists

Edited by

ASA DON DICKINSON

Authors and Journalists

 JEAN JACQUES ROUSSEAU
 ROBERT BURNS
 CHARLOTTE BRONTE
 CHARLES DICKENS
 HORACE GREELEY
 LOUISA M. ALCOTT
 HENRY GEORGE
 WILLIAM H. RIDEING
 JACOB A. RIIS
 HELEN KELLER

[Frontispiece: Robert Burns]

Garden City ---- New York Doubleday, Page & Company 1925 Copyright, 1916, by Doubleday, Page
& Company All Rights Reserved

ACKNOWLEDGMENT

In the preparation of this volume the publishers have received from several houses and authors
generous permissions to reprint copyright material.  For this they wish to express their cordial
gratitude.  In particular, acknowledgments are due to the Houghton Mifflin Company for permission
to reprint the sketch of Horace Greeley; to Little, Brown & Co. for permission to reprint passages
from "The Life, Letters, and Journals of Louisa May Alcott"; to Mr. Henry George, Jr., for
the extract from his life of his father; to William H. Rideing for permission to reprint extracts
from his book "Many Celebrities and a Few Others"; to the Macmillan Company for permission
to use passages from "The Making of an American," by Jacob A. Riis; to Miss Helen Keller for
permission to reprint from "The Story of My Life."

CONTENTS

AUTHORS AND JOURNALISTS

JEAN JACQUES ROUSSEAU
  The Man to Whom Expression was Travail

ROBERT BURNS
  The Ploughman-poet

HORACE GREELEY
  How the Farm-boy Became an Editor

CHARLES DICKENS
  The Factory Boy

CHARLOTTE BRONTE
  The Country Parson's Daughter

LOUISA MAY ALCOTT
  The Journal of a Brave and Talented Girl

HENRY GEORGE
  The Troubles of a Job Printer

JACOB RIIS
  "The Making of an American"

WILLIAM H. RIDEING
  Rejected Manuscripts

HELEN ADAMS KELLER
  How She Learned to Speak

JEAN JACQUES ROUSSEAU

(1712-1778)

THE MAN TO WHOM EXPRESSION WAS TRAVAIL

From the "Confessions of Rousseau."

It is strange to hear that those critics who spoke of Rousseau's "incomparable gift of expression,"
of his "easy, natural style," were ludicrously incorrect in their allusions.  From his "Confessions"
we learn that he had no gift of clear, fluent expression; that he was by nature so incoherent
that he could not creditably carry on an ordinary conversation; and that the ideas which stirred
Europe, although spontaneously conceived, were brought forth and set before the world only
after their progenitor had suffered the real pangs of labor.

But after all it is the same old story over again.  Great things are rarely said or done easily.

ROBERT BURNS

(1759-1796)

THE PLOUGHMAN-POET

A note of pride in his humble origin rings throughout the following pages.  The ploughman poet
was wiser in thought than in deed, and his life was not a happy one.  But, whatever his faults,
he did his best with the one golden talent that Fate bestowed upon him.  Each book that he
encountered was made to stand and deliver the message that it carried for him.  Sweethearting
and good-fellowship were his bane, yet he won much good from his practice of the art of correspondence
with sweethearts and boon companions.  And although Socrates was perhaps scarcely a name to
him, he studied always to follow the Athenian's favourite maxim, Know thyself; realizing, with
his elder brother of Warwickshire, that "the chiefest study of mankind is man."

From an autobiographical sketch sent to Dr. Moore.

[To Dr. Moore]

MAUCHLINE, August 2, 1787.

I need relate no further.

HORACE GREELEY

(1811-1872)

HOW THE FARM-BOY BECAME AN EDITOR

Horace Greeley, the farmer's son, lived most of his life in the metropolis, yet he always looked
like a farmer, and most people would be willing to admit that he retained the farmer's traditional
goodness of heart, if not quite all of his traditional simplicity.  His judgment was keen and
shrewd, and for many years the cracker-box philosophers of the village store impatiently awaited
the sorting of the mail chiefly that they might learn what "Old Horace" had to say about some
new picture in the kaleidoscope of politics.

From "Captains of Industry," by James Parton.  Houghton, Mifflin & Co., 1884.

CHARLES DICKENS

(1812-1870)

THE FACTORY BOY

This factory boy felt in his heart that he was qualified for a better position in life, and
great was his humiliation at the wretched meanness of his surroundings.  But his demeanor must
have been admirable, for he succeeded not only in retaining the respect of his associates,
but also in winning their regard.  In his case, as in that of so many others, it was darkest
just before the dawn of a better day.

They are his own words which follow:

An autobiographical fragment from Forster's "Life."

In an evil hour for me, as I often bitterly thought . . .

A FRIEND IN NEED

Bob Fagin was very good to me on the occasion of a bad attack of my old disorder, cramps. 
It may have been my birthday, or somebody else's.  "Twopence," says he.

Dickens sent the following sketch of his early career to Wilkie Collins.  It will be noted
that he omits all reference to his experiences in the blacking factory.  The naïve touches
of self-appreciation are delightful to the true lover of "The Inimitable."

TAVISTOCK HOUSE, June 6, 1856.

The following letter, criticising the work of an inexperienced author, is valuable in itself,
and reveals clearly the essential kindliness of the man.

"THE INFINITE CAPACITY FOR TAKING PAINS"

[To his sixth son, Henry Fielding Dickens, born in 1849]

BALTIMORE, U. S.,

TUESDAY, February 11, 1868.

MY DEAR HARRY:

I should have written to you before now but for constant and arduous occupation. . . .

Ever, my dear Harry,

Your affectionate Father.

"FAREWELL?  MY BLESSING SEASON THIS IN THEE"

[Dickens's last child, Edward Bulwer Lytton Dickens, was born in 1852.

CHARLOTTE BRONTË

(1816-1855)

THE COUNTRY PARSON'S DAUGHTER

Mrs. Gaskell's "Life of Charlotte Brontë" is one of the great biographies of literature, but
like other works on the same theme, it is really a history of the Brontë family during the
period of Charlotte's life.  The individuals of this family were for many years as closely
associated with one another as they were closely hidden from the outside world.  The personality
of each was influenced by its house-mates to an unusual degree.  They studied each other and
they studied every book that came within reach.  Themselves they knew well: the world, through
books only.  This probably accounts for the weird and even morbid character of much of their
work.  Their vivid imaginations, unchecked by experience, in a commonplace world were allowed
free play, and as a result we find some of the most original creations in the whole realm of
literature.

The life of the Brontë sisterhood should convince the literary aspirant that the creative imagination
is sufficient unto itself and independent of the stimulus of contact with the busy hum of men.
If it be necessary, the literary genius by divination can portray life without seeing it. 
Bricks are produced without straw.

From "Life of Charlotte Brontë," by Mrs. E. C. Gaskell.

But the children did not want society.  Miss Wooler was sorry, and regretted that she had over-tasked
so willing a pupil.

Some time elapsed before an answer was returned. . . .

LOUISA MAY ALCOTT

(1832-1888)

He is a hard-hearted churl who can read with unmoistened eyes this journal of a brave and talented
girl.

With what genuine, personal pleasure one remembers that a full measure of success and recognition
was finally won by her efforts.

From "Louisa Mary Alcott: Her Life, Letters, and Journals."  Little, Brown & Co., 1889.

1852.--High Street, Boston.--After the smallpox summer, we went to a house in High Street.
Mother opened an intelligence office, which grew out of her city missionary work and a desire
to find places for good girls.  It was not fit work for her, but it paid; and she always did
what came to her in the work of duty or charity, and let pride, taste, and comfort suffer for
love's sake.

Anna and I taught; Lizzie was our little housekeeper--our angel in a cellar kitchen; May went
to school; father wrote and talked when he could get classes or conversations.

My first story was printed, and $5 paid for it.  It was written in Concord when I was sixteen.
Great rubbish!  Read it aloud to sisters, and when they praised it, not knowing the author,
I proudly announced her name.

Made a resolution to read fewer novels, and those only of the best. List of books I like:

  Carlyle's French Revolution and Miscellanies.
  Hero and Hero-Worship.
  Goethe's poems, plays, and novels.
  Plutarch's Lives.
  Madame Guion.
  Paradise Lost and Comus.
  Schiller's Plays.
  Madame de Staël.
  Bettine.
  Louis XIV.
  Jane Eyre.
  Hypatia.
  Philothea.
  Uncle Tom's Cabin.
  Emerson's Poems. . . .  Home in October with $34 for my wages.
After two days' rest, began school again with ten children.  Betty was still the home bird, and had a
little romance with C.

Pleasant letters from father and Anna.  A hard year.  Summer distasteful and lonely; winter
tiresome with school and people I didn't like; I miss Anna, my one bosom friend and comforter.

1854.--Pinckney Street.--I have neglected my journal for months, so must write it up.  School
for me month after month.  Mother busy with boarders and sewing.  Father doing as well as a
philosopher can in a money-loving world.  Anna at S.

I earned a good deal by sewing in the evening when my day's work was done.

[I began to see the strong contrasts and the fun and follies in every-day life about this time--L.
M. A.]

Anna came home in March.  Kept our school all summer.  I got "Flower Fables" ready to print.

Louisa also tried service with a relative in the country for a short time, but teaching, sewing,
and writing were her principal occupations during this residence in Boston.

These seven years, from Louisa's sixteenth to her twenty-third year, might be called an apprenticeship
to life.  She tried various paths, and learned to know herself and the world about her, although
she was not even yet certain of success in the way which finally opened before her and led
her so successfully to the accomplishment of her life-purpose.  She tried teaching, without
satisfaction to herself or perhaps to others.  The kind of education she had herself received
fitted her admirably to understand and influence children, but not to carry on the routine
of a school.  Sewing was her resource when nothing else offered, but it is almost pitiful to
think of her as confined to such work when great powers were lying dormant in her mind.  Still
Margaret Fuller said that a year of enforced quiet in the country devoted mainly to sewing
was very useful to her, since she reviewed and examined the treasures laid up in her memory;
and doubtless Louisa Alcott thought out many a story which afterward delighted the world while
her fingers busily plied the needle.  Yet it was a great deliverance when she first found that
the products of her brain would bring in the needed money for family support.

[L. in Boston to A. in Syracuse]

THURSDAY, 27th.

DEAREST NAN: I was so glad to hear from you, and hear that all are well.

I am grubbing away as usual, trying to get money enough to buy mother a nice warm shawl.  I
have eleven dollars, all my own earnings--five for a story, and four for the pile of sewing
I did for the ladies of Dr. Gray's society, to give him as a present.

. . . I got a crimson ribbon for a bonnet for May, and I took my straw and fixed it nicely
with some little duds I had.  Her old one has haunted me all winter, and I want her to look
neat.  She is so graceful and pretty and loves beauty so much it is hard for her to be poor
and wear other people's ugly things.  You and I have learned not to mind much; but when I think
of her I long to dash out and buy the finest hat the limited sum often dollars can procure.
She says so sweetly in one of her letters: "It is hard sometimes to see other people have so
many nice things and I so few; but I try not to be envious, but contented with my poor clothes,
and cheerful about it."  I hope the little dear will like the bonnet and the frills I made
her and some bows I fixed over from bright ribbons L. W. threw away.  I get half my rarities
from her rag-bag, and she doesn't know her own rags when fixed over.  I hope I shall live to
see the dear child in silk and lace, with plenty of pictures and "bottles of cream," Europe,
and all she longs for.

For our good little Betty, who is wearing all the old gowns we left, I shall soon be able to
buy a new one, and send it with my blessing to the cheerful saint.  She writes me the funniest
notes, and tries to keep the old folks warm and make the lonely house in the snowbanks cosey
and bright.

To father I shall send new neckties and some paper; then he will be happy, and can keep on
with the beloved diaries though the heavens fall.

Don't laugh at my plans; I'll carry them out, if I go to service to do it.  Seeing so much
money flying about, I long to honestly get a little and make my dear family more comfortable.
I feel weak-minded when I think of all they need and the little I can do.

Now about you: Keep the money you have earned by so many tears and sacrifices, and clothe yourself;
for it makes me mad to know that my good little lass is going round in shabby things, and being
looked down upon by people who are not worthy to touch her patched shoes or the hem of her
ragged old gowns.  Make yourself tidy, and if any is left over send it to mother; for there
are always many things needed at home, though they won't tell us.  I only wish I, too, by any
amount of weeping and homesickness could earn as much.  But my mite won't come amiss; and if
tears can add to its value, I've shed my quart--first, over the book not coming out; for that
was a sad blow, and I waited so long it was dreadful when my castle in the air came tumbling
about my ears.  Pride made me laugh in public; but I wailed in private, and no one knew it.
The folks at home think I rather enjoyed it, for I wrote a jolly letter.  But my visit was
spoiled; and now I'm digging away for dear life, that I may not have come entirely in vain.
I didn't mean to groan about it; but my lass and I must tell some one our trials, and so it
becomes easy to confide in one another.  I never let mother know how unhappy you were in S.
till Uncle wrote.

My doings are not much this week.  I sent a little tale to the Gazette, and Clapp asked H.
W. if five dollars would be enough.  Cousin H. said yes, and gave it to me, with kind words
and a nice parcel of paper, saying in his funny way, "Now, Lu, the door is open, go in and
win." So I shall try to do it.  Then cousin L. W. said Mr. B. had got my play, and told her
that if Mrs. B. liked it as well, it must be clever, and if it didn't cost too much, he would
bring it out by and by.  Say nothing about it yet.  Dr. W. tells me Mr. F. is very sick; so
the farce cannot be acted yet.  But the Doctor is set on its coming out, and we have fun about
it.  H. W. takes me often to the theatre when L. is done with me.  I read to her all the P.
M. often, as she is poorly, and in that way I pay my debt to them.

I'm writing another story for Clapp.  I want more fives, and mean to have them, too.

Uncle wrote that you were Dr. W.'s pet teacher, and every one loved you dearly.  But if you
are not well, don't stay.  Come home, and be cuddled by your old

Lu.

Pinckney Street, Boston, January 1, 1855.--The principal event of the winter is the appearance
of my book "Flower Fables."  An edition of sixteen hundred.  It has sold very well, and people
seem to like it.  I feel quite proud that the little tales that I wrote for Ellen E. when I
was sixteen should now bring money and fame.

I will put in some of the notices as "varieties," mothers are always foolish over their first-born.

Miss Wealthy Stevens paid for the book, and I received $32.

[A pleasing contrast to the receipts of six months only, in 1886, being $8,000 for the sale
of books, and no new one; but I was prouder over the $32 than the $8,000.--L. M. A., 1886.]

April, 1855.--I am in the garret with my papers round me, and a pile of apples to eat while
I write my journal, plan stories, and enjoy the patter of rain on the roof, in peace and quiet.

[Jo in the garret.--L. M. A.]

Being behindhand, as usual, I'll make note of the main events up to date, for I don't waste
ink in poetry and pages of rubbish now.  I've begun to live, and have no time for sentimental
musing.

In October I began my school; father talked, mother looked after her boarders, and tried to
help everybody.  Anna was in Syracuse teaching Mrs. S------'s children.

My book came out; and people began to think that topsy-turvy Louisa would amount to something
after all, since she could do so well as housemaid, teacher, seamstress, and story-teller.
Perhaps she may.

In February I wrote a story for which C. paid $5 and asked for more.

In March I wrote a farce for W. Warren, and Dr. W. offered it to him; but W. W. was too busy.

Also began another tale, but found little time to work on it, with school, sewing, and housework.
My winter's earnings are:

  School, one quarter  . . . . . $50
  Sewing . . . . . . . . . . . .  50
  Stories  . . . . . . . . . . .  20

if I am ever paid.

A busy and a pleasant winter, because, though hard at times, I do seem to be getting on a little;
and that encourages me.

Have heard Lowell and Hedge lecture, acted in plays, and thanks to our rag-money and good cousin
H., have been to the theatre several times--always my great joy.

Summer plans are yet unsettled.  Father wants to go to England: not a wise idea, I think. 
We shall probably stay here, and A. and I go into the country as governesses.  It's a queer
way to live, but dramatic, and I rather like it; for we never know what is to come next.  We
are real "Micawbers," and always "ready for a spring."

I have planned another Christmas book, and hope to be able to write it.

1855.--Cousin L. W. asks me to pass the summer at Walpole with her.  If I can get no teaching,
I shall go; for I long for the hills, and can write my fairy tales there.

I delivered my burlesque lecture on "Woman, and Her Position; by Oronthy Bluggage," last evening
at Deacon G's.  Had a merry time, and was asked by Mr. R. to do it at H. for money.  Read "Hamlet"
at our club--my favorite play.  Saw Mrs. W. H. Smith about the farce; says she will do it at
her benefit.

May.--Father went to C. to talk with Mr. Emerson about the England trip.  I am to go to Walpole.
I have made my own gowns, and had money enough to fit up the girls.  So glad to be independent.

[I wonder if $40 fitted up the whole family.  Perhaps so, as my wardrobe was made up of old
clothes from cousins and friends.--L. M. A.]

Walpole, N. H., June, 1855.--Pleasant journey and a kind welcome. Lovely place, high among
the hills.  So glad to run and skip in the woods and up the splendid ravine.  Shall write here,
I know.

Helped cousin L. in her garden; and the smell of the fresh earth and the touch of green leaves
did me good.

Mr. T. came and praised my first book, so I felt much inspired to go and do another.  I remember
him at Scituate years ago, when he was a young shipbuilder and I a curly-haired hoyden of five
or six.

Up at five, and had a lovely run in the ravine, seeing the woods wake. Planned a little tale
which ought to be fresh and true, as it came at that hour and place--"King Goldenrod."  Have
lively days--writing in A. M., driving in P. M., and fun in the eve.  My visit is doing me
much good.

July, 1855.--Read "Hyperion."  On the 16th the family came to live in Mr. W.'s house, rent
free.  No better plan offered, and we were all tired of the city.  Here father can have a garden,
mother can rest and be near her good niece; the children have freedom and fine air; and A.
and I can go from here to our teaching, wherever it may be. Fanny Kemble came up, Mrs. Kirkland,
and others, and Dr. Bellows is the gayest of the gay.  We acted the "Jacobite," "Rivals," and
"Bonnycastles," to an audience of a hundred, and were noticed in the Boston papers.  H. T.
was our manager, and Dr. B., D. D., our dramatic director.  Anna was the star, her acting being
really very fine.  I did "Mrs. Malaprop," "Widow Pottle," and the old ladies.

Finished fairy book in September.  Ann had an offer from Dr. Wilbur of Syracuse to teach at
the great idiot asylum.  She disliked it, but decided to go.  Poor dear! so beauty-loving,
timid, and tender.  It is a hard trial; but she is so self-sacrificing she tries to like it
because it is duty.

October.--A. to Syracuse.  May illustrated my book and tales called "Christmas Elves." Better
than "Flower Fables."  Now I must try to sell it.

December.--H. and L. W. very kind, and my dear cousins the Sewalls take me in.  Finished "Twelve
Bubbles."  I got only $4.

Sewing won't make my fortune; but I can plan my stories while I work, and then scribble 'em
down on Sundays.

Poem on "Little Paul"; Curtis's lecture on "Dickens" made it go well. Hear Emerson on "England."

May.--Anna came on her way home, sick and worn out; the work was too much for her.  We had
some happy days visiting about.  Could not dispose of B. B. in book form, but C. took them
for his paper.  Mr. Field died, so the farce fell through there.  Altered the play for Mrs.
Barrow to bring out next winter.

June, 1856.--Home, to find dear Betty very ill with scarlet-fever caught from some poor children
mother nursed when they fell sick, living over a cellar where pigs had been kept.  The landlord
(a deacon) would not clean the place till mother threatened to sue him for allowing a nuisance.
Too late to save two of the poor babies or Lizzie and May from the fever.

[L. never recovered, but died of it two years later.--L. M. A.]

An anxious time, I nursed, did housework, and wrote a story a month through the summer.

Dr. Bellows and Father had Sunday eve conversations.

October.--Pleasant letters from father, who went on a tour to New York, Philadelphia, and Boston.

If I can get A. L. to governess I shall be all right.

[Journal]

Boston, November, 1856: Mrs. David Reed's.--I find my little room up in the attic very cosey
and a house full of boarders very amusing to study.  Mrs. Reed very kind.  Fly around and take
C. his stories.  Go to see Mrs. L. about A.  Don't want me.  A blow, but I cheer up and hunt
for sewing.  Go to hear Parker, and he does me good.  Asks me to come Sunday evenings to his
house.  I did go there, and met Phillips, Garrison, Hedge, and other great men, and sit in
my corner weekly, staring and enjoying myself.

When I went Mr. Parker said, "God bless you, Louisa; come again"; and the grasp of his hand
gave me courage to face another anxious week.

