    "Persons not thought meet to be in command, though they much
    desire it, and are of such poor principles and so unfit to make
    rulers of as they would not have been set with the dogs of the
    flock, if the army and others who once pretended to be honest
    had kept close to their former good and honest principles."

Vincent Gookin voted for the clause in the "Petition and Advice" giving the title of "King"
to Cromwell.

CH.

All-to brake (Vol. i., p. 395.).--The interpretation given is incorrect. "All-to" is very commonly
used by early writers for "altogether:" e.g., "all-to behacked," Calfhill's Answer to Martiall's
Treatise of the Cross, Parker Society's edition, p. 3.; "all-to becrossed," ibid. p. 91.; "all-to
bebatted," ibid. p. 133., &c. &c. The Parker Society reprints will supply innumerable examples
of the use of the expression.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

The two of Mr. Hunter's Critical and Historical Tracts, which we have had the opportunity of
examining, justify to the fullest the expectations we had formed of them. The first, Agincourt;
a Contribution towards an authentic List of the Commanders of the English Host, in King Henry
the Fifth's Expedition, in the Third Year of his Reign, Mr. Hunter describes as "an instalment,"
we venture to add "a very valuable instalment," from evidence which has been buried for centuries
in the unknown masses of national records, towards a complete list of the English Commanders
who served with the King in that expedition, with, in most cases, the number of the retinue
which each Commander undertook to bring into the field, and, in some instances, notices of
events happening to the contingents. The value of a work based upon such materials, our historical
readers will instantly recognise. The lovers of our poetry will regard with equal interest,
and peruse with equal satisfaction, Mr. Hunter's brochure entitled Milton; a Sheaf of Gleanings
after his Biographers and Annotators, and admit that he has bound up the new biographical illustrations
and critical comments, which he has gathered in that pleasant field of literary inquiry, the
life and writings of Milton, into a goodly and a pleasant sheaf.

Messrs. Sotheby and Co. will commence on Monday, the 29th of this month, a three days' Sale
of Greek Roman, and English Coins, English and Foreign Medals, Cabinets, &c., the property
of a Gentleman leaving England.

MOULTRIE'S POEMS. Vol.

C.J.S. The Inscription from the brass in Chinnor Church, Oxon, is Mouns. Esmoun de Malyns fitz
Mouns. Reynald de Malyns Chr. et Isabelle sa femme gisoient icy Dieu de ses ailmes eit mercy,
being in memory of Esmond de Malyns and his wife. The father, Renald de Malyns, was interred
in the same church. In No. 37., p. 98., col. 2., 1. 16., for "1625" read "1695"; p. 101., l.
31., "Inchiguin" should be "Inchiquin"; p. 106., col. 2., 1. 26. should be--

  "And disappoints the Queen, poor little Chuck."

SOME ACCOUNT OF THE CORPS OF GENTLEMEN AT ARMS.

By JAMES BUNCE CURLING, Clerk of the Checque.

"Mr. Curling has succeeded in producing a book of much lively and curious historic interest."--Naval
and Military Gazette.

"The author has made the most of his subject, introducing anecdotes of the members of the corps
from its first institution."--Atlas.

RICHARD BENTLEY, Publisher in Ordinary to her Majesty. 6d.,

ANONYMOUS POEMS.

"The elegant version of Greek epigrams contained in this volume shows the scholarship as well
as the taste of the writer."--Britannia.

"Many of the pieces have a very classical air, and all are marked with an unusual degree of
elegance and power."--Guardian.

RICHARD BENTLEY, New Burlington-street.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Crown 8vo., elegantly bound in gilt cloth, price 7s. 6d.

MEMORIALS OF THE CASTLE OF EDINBURGH.

By JAMES GRANT; author of "Memoirs of Kirkaldy of Grange," "The Romance of War," "The Scottish
Cavalier," &c. With Twelve Illustrations, engraved on Wood by BRANSTON.

"Of the different books of this nature that have fallen, in our way, we do not remember one
that has equalled Mr. Grant's."--Spectator.

"Mr. Grant's very interesting history of the Castle of Edinburgh--a work equally distinguished
by research, accuracy, and pictorial interest."--Alison's Essays.

"We have been much amused with this little book, which abounds in pleasant and interesting
episodes, and we recommend it as an excellent specimen of local history."--Athenæum. 1850.