But the most painful circumstance of their lot was the character of the keeper. His name was
Cunningham; he seems to have been a monster. Many years afterward he was executed in England
for some hideous crime, and boasted that he had put arsenic in the flour he served to the prisoners.
It was under this man--one of those horrible natures war often brings into use--that the young
men of New York, Connecticut, and New Jersey were to pass their miserable captivity. Soon even
the English officials were forced to take notice of the horrors of the jail in the Park. The
neighbors complained that they could get no sleep for the outcries and groans of the prisoners.
Cunningham ruled over them with lash and sword. They were starved, reviled, beaten, "to win
them," he said, "to their duty." The chill winter and the hot summer found them crowded in
their pestilential prisons. The old Sugar-House in Liberty Street was also under Cunningham's
care. It was a tall building, several stories high, with small windows, low ceilings, and bare
walls. Every story was filled thickly with the captured Americans. They starved, pined away,
died by hundreds. Cunningham withheld their food, and cheated even the miserable sick and dying.
They froze to death in the chill winter of 1776-77. Sometimes the famished prisoners would
come to the narrow windows of the old Sugar-House, crying for charity to those who passed,
but the sentries drove them back. They pined away in the dark corners of the crowded rooms,
dreaming of the old homestead in Connecticut, Thanksgiving cheer, and smiling friends. When
they were brought out for exchange, Washington wrote indignantly to Sir Henry Clinton, "You
give us only the sick and dying for our healthy, well-fed prisoners." Such were the sorrows
our ancestors bore for us. They were the authors of our freedom. And he who treads the floors
of the old Dutch Church, or seeks out the spot where stood the Sugar-House in Liberty Street,
may well pause to think how much we owe to those who once pined within their walls. Such, too,
is war. Modern intelligence has shorn it of some of its horrors. It may be hoped that education
will at last banish it altogether, and the people of Europe and America join to force upon
their governments a policy of peace.

ZACHUR WITH THE SACK.

A stately-looking man, wearing suspended on his left side by a strong strap a simple gray sack,
while a well-filled leather purse hung on his right, was one day slowly wandering through the
crowded bazar of Bagdad. He remained standing before one of the stalls, and then, after a little
reflection, proceeded to purchase the largest and softest carpet there--one of those in which
the foot seems gently to sink down, and the sound of each step is completely hushed.

The merchant was greatly surprised to see the richly dressed stranger without retinue, and
said, politely, "Sir, as your slaves are not at hand, I will send one of my young men with
you to carry the carpet."

"It is not necessary," said the purchaser, as he paid the price in shining gold pieces; "I
can manage it myself."

He quickly took up the immense roll of carpet, and pushed it slowly but surely into his sack.
Then, without heeding the amazement and shaking of the head of the dealer, he passed on.

His desire of purchasing seemed now to be thoroughly roused. Twelve flasks of otto of roses,
from Schiraz, found their way into his sack; ten pounds of the finest Turkish tobacco followed
them; then came, quite appropriately, a magnificent nargileh, with a long tube and a yellow
amber mouth-piece, on the top of which he carelessly threw a heavy ebony box, inlaid with copper.

Notwithstanding the crowd, he attracted continual notice, and a dignified-looking man had long
been following him attentively, without, however, addressing him. But when he had reached the
middle of the bazar, where the best and most costly wares are exposed for sale, and when, as
though intoxicated by the sight, he seized the most incongruous things, and untiringly pushed
them into his sack--pearls from Ormuz and blades from Damascus, tons of Mocha coffee, and bales
of silk, fishes and rings, bracelets and dates, watches, saddles, and diamonds--then the Caliph,
for it was no less a personage who was following him, could contain himself no longer, and said:

"I have seen many wonders, O stranger, and by the beard of the Prophet, thou art not the least.
Have, then, thy purse and thy sack no end? Why does thy sack not burst? How canst thou carry
it? How canst thou find but one of the thousand things which thou art unceasingly cramming
into it? And tell me, how will those poor tender pearls, which were too dear for me to buy
for Zuleika, fare among tons and crates?"

Zachur--such was the name of the stranger--crossed his arms on his breast, and bowed low.

"Ruler of the Faithful," he said--"for it is in vain that thou hidest thy noble figure under
a homely dress; thy portrait, painted by a Giaour, and offered to me in Frankestan, is also
in my sack, and I recognize thee at once--Allah is great, and His gifts are wonderful. Thou
carest for the lovely daughters of the shell? Look here!"

He quickly put his right hand into the sack, and brought forth unhurt, from the very midst
of sabres and boxes, the double row of large milk-white pearls, which he respectfully presented
to the Caliph.

The Caliph was astonished at Zachur's riches and dexterity, rejoiced at his present, and was
curious to learn more concerning him.

"Then we will sit down there, on the broad stone steps at the foot of the murmuring fountain,"
said Zachur; and in a minute he had spread out his soft carpet, and lighted two nargilehs filled
with the costly aromatic herb.

They sat down, with their legs crossed under them, peacefully sent little blue clouds into
the air, and the stranger began his tale:

"I am the son of a poor man, O sire, and seemed doomed to poverty. But there stood a good fairy
by my cradle, and laid on it this bag and this purse, saying:

"'Grow up, Zachur, and look around thee, in the world. Buy what pleases thee. Pay for it out
of this purse, which will not become empty, and preserve it in this sack, which will not become
full; but especially pack in all that is valuable--the weight of it will not weary thee.'

"It has held more than she promised. All that I have ever possessed or loved is contained,
imperishable, safe forever, and always at hand, in this sack."

"Wonderful, highly singular, and wonderful!" said the Caliph. "But tell me more, friend."

"Details would take too long to relate, but the whole is soon said," answered Zachur. "Thou
wast surprised to-day at my rapidity in purchasing--thou shouldst have seen me in my young
days! When the world still looked sunny and bright to my childish gaze, when thousands of objects
attracted me, my hand was rarely out of my purse and my sack. I took long journeys over sea
and desert, through lonely villages and large cities, and whatever pleased me I bought, and
joyfully put into my capacious sack. Indeed, it filled itself, without aid from me; shining
green birds and brilliant snow-white blossoms flew into it.

"The first impetuous joy was, however, soon stilled. Sometimes a feeling of indifference came
over me, and I passed unmoved by the most beautiful things, because I already possessed so
much that was lovely. 'Another opportunity will occur,' I thought, 'if I should ever wish for
it.' But it never came, just as no moment of time ever returns; and now I mourn over many a
neglected chance.

"Then, again, I comfort myself with the thought of how many things I possess, and take old
and new out of my sack, according to my inclination--a quilted silk counterpane from Japan
in which to envelop myself, or the Egyptian phoenix to lull me to sleep.

"Besides, the world is still large, and Zachur is not old yet. I have still time to buy; and
sometimes the old longing is very strong within me. Thus to-day, O sire, when I entered thy
city, I gave praise to Allah that He had enabled man to form, out of the dirty wool of the
sheep, the brilliant carpet on which we are sitting, and caused the fragile amber now between
our lips to rise up from the sand of the sea--that He brought the gold from the bowels of the
earth, and the pearls from the depths of the sea! And eagerly I seized the things, O sire,
until the eye of thy favor rested on me, and the blessed breath of thy mouth reached me, and
gave me what can not be purchased with gold and silver--the honor and delight of thy presence!"

"Well spoken!" said the Caliph, delighted, as he blew a thick cloud before him; "it is easy
to see that thou hast travelled, and been in courts too, friend Zachur. But one thing, before
I again forget it in my amazement. The Prophet, praised be his name! has forbidden to make
a likeness or picture of man, the image of Allah. But as thou possessest mine, done by some
unbelieving dog--I can not conceive how he found time and opportunity to do it--"

"They paint rapidly," interrupted Zachur; "and are quick in all evil arts."

"True, very true. I should like to look at the thing. The people need know nothing about it.
Couldst thou not take it out for me to have just one glimpse of it?"

"Thy wish is a command to me," answered Zachur, who was already fumbling in the sack, but for
some time in vain.

"Well," called the Caliph, getting angry, "art thou sorry that thou hast promised? Or--"

"Here it is, O sire," said Zachur, breathing freely; and the anger of the ruler disappeared
as he gazed with curiosity on a small silver medal.

"It is I, and yet it is not," he said, shaking his head. "It is my fez, with the ruby clasp,
and the embroidery on my state dress; but I do not really look so stiff. Where are the brown
cheeks, the brightness of the eyes, the coloring, friend? And--what do I see?--the thing is
broken; look here! there is a crack across it that separates the feet of my horse from his
body. Therefore thou canst not keep all thy things unhurt in that sack--thou canst not find
them all in a minute: confess thou hast also lost some entirely."

"I am the son of a poor man," answered Zachur, blushing, "but I learned two things when only
a boy: to use a sword, and to speak the truth. Yes, I have lost many a thing; and when I was
boasting just now that I had everything in my sack, I was guilty of exaggeration, as men of
limited capacity are, in the use of the two words everything and nothing. I should have said
most things."

At this moment appeared two outriders on swift Arab steeds, and behind them came a gilt carriage,
drawn by four Barbary horses. At sight of them Zachur sprang to his feet.

Without for a moment losing sight of the approaching procession seeing the Caliph rise too,
he quickly pushed his carpet and nargileh into his sack, and exclaimed, with sparkling eyes,
"To whom does this magnificence belong? Though how can I ask? for who but thou, O sire, could
call such splendor his own?

"How beautifully the Nubian in his purple contrasts with the gray horse, and the pale Christian
slave in the blue silk with the shining black steed! If only thou wert a merchant with this
equipage for sale!"

"Princes do not barter," said the Caliph, as he put a little silver whistle to his mouth, and
blew a shrill blast, when horses and carriage suddenly stood still by the side of the fountain.

"But thou hast made me a handsome present, friend Zachur, and what is more, given me a pleasant
hour. Take what thou praisest so enthusiastically; be my guest to-day, and to-morrow, or when
it pleases thee, drive away into the wide world in this carriage--it must be weary work dragging
such a sack."

Zachur crossed his arms on his breast, bowed low, and answered: "Thy favor is like dew on a
barren land, even for the richest, and if I had not promised a sick friend to be with him this
evening, I would willingly enter within the shadow of thy halls. Therefore let me go in peace;
but these beautifully kept horses and carriage shall not go through the dust of the suburbs."

Saying this, he quietly pushed the Nubian with his gray steed, the black horse and his rider,
the carriage and horses, into the sack, bowed down to the ground again, and then stepped lightly
and erect toward the city gate.

The Caliph shook his head as he looked after him, went home full of thought, and hung the double
row of pearls round Zuleika's neck.

Then he sent for his private secretary and said:

"Take a swan quill and a sheet of the finest parchment, and write down carefully what I shall
dictate: the story of Zachur with the Sack."

       *       *       *       *       *

Many of our young readers have doubtless long since seen the meaning of this tale shine forth
through its thin veil. We should all be surprised at a Zachur, and yet, like him, we have each
a faithful capacious sack--memory--into which, from our youth upward, we have crammed what
is noble and common, pearls and pebbles, and yet it does not become full, nor our purse--our
power of comprehension--empty.

THE DIFFERENCE.

  Who warms his slippers for papa
    When he comes home at night?
  Who meets him with a joyous laugh,
    And blue eyes beaming bright?
  Who climbs upon his ready knee,
  With kisses sweet as kiss can be?--
                            Our Kitty.

  Who teases poor old grandmamma,
    And pulls her work away,
  And with her gold-rimmed spectacles
    Too often tries to play?
  Who's full of mischief, sport, and fun,
  From early morn till day is done?--
                            Our Kitty.

  Whose little arms "hug mamma tight"?
    Whose lips give kisses sweet?
  Who follows nurse about the house
    With little restless feet?
  Who sings to Dolly, scolds her, too,
  And tries to act as "big folks" do?--
                            Our Kitty.

  Who, bent on mischief, truth to say,
    Like any little elf,
  Within the pantry hides to taste
    The "goodies" on the shelf?
  Who bothers cook, where'er she goes,
  And makes her scold, you may suppose?--
                            Our Kitty.

  But lest our Kitty chance to get
    More than her share of blame
  For mischief, I'll explain there is
    Some difference in the name:
  One Kitty is our child, you see;
  The other, Kitty's c-a-t!

A PEEP INTO ROYAL TREASURIES.

The Hasné, or imperial treasury, of Constantinople, contains a costly collection of ancient
armor and coats of mail worn by the Sultans. The most remarkable is that of Sultan Murad II.,
the conqueror of Bagdad. The head-piece of this suit is of gold and silver, almost covered
with precious stones; the diadem surrounding the turban is composed of three emeralds of the
purest water and large size, while the collar is formed of twenty-two large and magnificent
diamonds.

In the same collection is a curious ornament, in the shape of an elephant, of massive gold,
standing on a pedestal formed of enormous pearls placed side by side. There is also a table,
thickly inlaid with Oriental topazes, presented by the Empress Catherine of Russia to the Vizier
Baltadji Mustapha, together with a very remarkable collection of ancient costumes, trimmed
with rare furs, and literally covered with precious stones. The divans and cushions, formerly
in the throne-room of the Sultans, are gorgeous; the stuff of which the cushions are made is
pure tissue of gold, without any mixture of silk whatever, and is embroidered with pearls,
weighing about thirty-six hundred drachmas. Children's cradles of solid gold, inlaid with precious
stones; vases of immense value in rock-crystal, gold, and silver, incrusted with rubies, emeralds,
and diamonds; daggers, swords, and shields, beautifully wrought and richly jewelled--all tell
a story of ancient grandeur and wealth, when the Ottoman power was a reality, and Western Europe
trembled before the descendant of the son of Amurath.

Notwithstanding these jewelled riches of Turkey, however, they are surpassed by the splendor
of the Shah of Persia's treasury, the contents of which have accumulated in successive periods.

Nadir Shah of Persia, in the first half of the eighteenth century, amassed enormous riches
by the spoils of war. He is said to have had a tent made so magnificent and costly as to appear
almost fabulous.

It would be impossible to describe in a short article the splendor of the Persian treasury.
One extraordinary object may be mentioned: a two-foot globe covered with jewels from the north
pole to the extremities of the tripod on which the gemmed sphere is placed. His Majesty had
coats embroidered with diamonds and emeralds, rubies, pearls, and garnets; he had jewelled
swords and daggers without number; so because he did not know what else to do with the rest
of his jewels, he ordered the globe to be constructed, and covered with gems; the overspreading
sea to be of emeralds, and the kingdoms of the world to be distinguished by jewels of different
color.

WINGED FREEBOOTERS.

The great goshawk, a bird in a coat of blackish-brown covered with blotches of black and reddish-white,
is a terrible enemy to wild rabbits, hares, and squirrels, and to all the small feathered inhabitants
of field and forest. It is about two feet long, and although it is not a bird of very rapid
flight, its cunning and strength are such that its prey rarely escapes. Should the terrified
hare hide itself in some thicket, the goshawk patiently perches on an elevated branch near
at hand, where it will wait hours, motionless, until the poor hare, thinking its enemy departed,
ventures from its retreat, when in an instant it is swooped down upon, and struck dying to
the ground.

Goshawks are found in the Middle and Western States during the autumn and winter. In the summer
they go far to the northward to rear their young. They build a large nest of twigs and coarse
grasses on some lofty branch of a tree, and lay three or four eggs of dull bluish-white slightly
spotted with reddish-brown.

These savage birds are very common in Maine, where they make great havoc among the flocks of
wild-ducks and Canada grouse, and will even, when driven by hunger, venture an attack on the
fowls of the farm-yard. Its sharp eye always gleaming and on the alert, the goshawk sweeps
over fields and woods, changing its course in an instant by a slight movement of its rudder-like
tail whenever any desired prey is sighted. It is the most restless of birds, and is almost
constantly on the wing, seldom alighting except for breakfast and dinner.

Audubon relates a curious instance of sagacity in a goshawk, which he himself witnessed. A
large flock of blackbirds flying over a pond were pursued by one of these birds, which, dashing
into the flock, seized one after the other of the poor little victims, apparently squeezing
each one with its powerful talons, and then allowing it to drop on the surface of the water.
Five or six had been captured before the fleeing blackbirds gained the shelter of a thick forest.
The goshawk then swept leisurely back, and with graceful curves descended to the pond and collected
its victims, taking the dead birds one by one and carrying them away as if laying up a store
for its evening meal.

Instances have been known where this bird has itself fallen a victim to its own designs. Dead
goshawks have been found with their talons hopelessly entangled in thorn and furze bushes,
upon which they had pounced with the object of seizing some little rabbit or squirrel which
had sought shelter beneath the undergrowth. A hunter once witnessed such an occurrence, the
rabbit scampering away in safety across the field, while the great bird remained entangled
in the bush. The hunter forbore to shoot at the little rabbit which had made so fortunate an
escape, and killed the wicked bird of prey instead.

Goshawks are found in nearly every portion of Europe, and have sometimes been trained to assist
in hunting; but as they are more ferocious than the falcon, they are less easily controlled,
and are always on the watch to regain their liberty.

A smaller variety of the great hawk family, but one spreading equal terror among small birds,
is the sparrow-hawk--a bold, provoking bird, with dark brown back and wings, and breast of
rusty brown or grayish-white crossed by narrow bars of a darker tint. The sparrow-hawk feeds
mostly upon small birds, but it will also catch moles, field-mice, and even grasshoppers. It
flies low, skimming along but a few feet from the ground, its sharp little eyes always on the
watch for prey.

When tamed, the sparrow-hawk becomes affectionate toward its owner, but will rarely accept
civilities from any other person. One of these birds, which had been tamed by a lady, was accustomed
to perch on the shoulder of its mistress, and eat from her hand. It was intensely jealous,
and would fly savagely at any one to whom its mistress showed the least favor. This particular
pet proved as troublesome as a thieving cat, for was any fine fat chicken or partridge left
lying on the kitchen table, if the cook's back was turned for a moment, the prize was either
mangled or borne away to a hiding-place by the mischievous bird.

The sparrow-hawk is not a nest-builder, but will usurp the nest of the crow or some other large
bird. If a deserted nest can be found, the sparrow-hawk will immediately take possession; but
if no such presents itself, this bad-hearted, quarrelsome bird does not hesitate to depose
the rightful owner, and proceed to occupy a home to which it has neither right nor title.

The sparrow-hawk, the malicious hen-hawk, and cruel pigeon-hawk, are very common throughout
the United States and Europe.

UNCLE PHIL'S THIMBLE.

BY ELINOR ELLIOTT.

"A rag-picker!"

"That's just what I am," sighed a poor girl who stood at one of the long tables in the rag-room
of a large paper-mill. Down each side the table stood a row of girls, some older, some younger,
than herself, all miserably clothed, and all with worn, pinched faces.

These girls came each day to their work with an eager look in their eyes, which burned brightly
in the morning, flickered fitfully through the day, and faded out at night, leaving the patient,
tired look which want and hunger and disappointment bring, and which is always ready to take
courage and look forward once more; for in a pile of rags there sometimes lay a treasure--an
odd penny, an old knife, a pair of scissors--something that might be taken to the little pawn
shop round the corner and sold.

A little while ago a girl--a lucky girl--had a "find," a bright silver quarter. Her good luck
had been whispered up and down the row, but no one betrayed her fortune. When the overseer
came through the room, no exultant look nor envious glance suggested anything unusual, for
this band of "rag-pickers" had its honor, which it held to as closely as the most compact trades-union
in the land.

To some of the girls the thought sometimes came, "Is what we find really ours?" but long generations
of workers in the mill had appropriated these "finds," and it had become a custom if not a right.

