Nor did Nan like the way her uncle acted while he listened--and afterward. He talked a good
deal about Gale and the way she was treating her cousin. When Nan declared she never would
have anything to do with him, her uncle told her with disconcerting bluntness to get all that
out of her head, for she was going to marry him. When she protested she never would, Duke told
her, with many harsh oaths, that she should never marry de Spain even if he had to kill him
or get killed to stop it, and that if she had any sense she would get ready to marry her cousin
peaceably, adding, that if she didn't have sense, he would see himself it was provided for her.

His threats left Nan aghast. For two days she thought them all over. Then she dressed to go
to town. On her way to the barn her uncle intercepted her. "Where you going?"

"To Sleepy Cat," returned Nan, regarding him collectedly.

"No, you're not," he announced bluntly.

Nan looked at him in silence. "I don't want you running to town any more to meet de Spain,"
added Duke, without any attempt to soften his injunction.

"But I've got to go to town once in a while, whether I meet Henry de Spain or not, Uncle Duke."

"What do you have to go for?"

"Why, for mail, supplies--everything."

"Pardaloe can attend to all that."

Nan shook her head. "Whether he can or not, I'm not going to be cut off from going to Sleepy
Cat, Uncle Duke--nor from seeing Henry de Spain."

"Meaning to say you won't obey, eh?"

"When I'm going to marry a man it isn't right to forbid me seeing him."

"You're not going to marry him; you're going to marry Gale, and the quicker you make up your
mind to it the better."

"You might better tell me I am going to marry Bull Page--I would marry him first. I will never
marry Gale Morgan in the living world, and I've told you so more than once."

He regarded his niece a moment wrathfully and, without replying, walked back to the house.
Nan, upset but resolute, went on to the barn and asked Pardaloe to saddle her pony. Pardaloe
shuffled around in an obliging way, but at the end of some evasion admitted he had orders not
to do it. Nan flamed at the information. She disliked Pardaloe anyway, not for any reason she
could assign beyond the fact that he had once been a chum of Gale's. But she was too high-spirited
to dispute with him, and returned to the house pink with indignation. Going straight to her
uncle, she protested against such tyranny. Duke was insensible alike to her pleas and her threats.

But next morning Nan was up at three o'clock. She made her way into the barn before a soul
was stirring, and at daybreak was well on her way to Sleepy Cat. She telephoned to de Spain's
office from the hospital and went to breakfast. De Spain joined her before she had finished,
and when they left the dining-room she explained why she had disappointed him the day before.
He heard the story with misgivings.

"I'll tell you how it looks to me, Nan," he said when she had done. "You are like a person
that's being bound tighter every day by invisible cords. You don't see them because you are
fearless. You are too fearless, Nan," he added, with apprehension reflected in the expression
of his face. "I'll tell you what I wish you'd do, and I say it knowing you won't do it," he
concluded.

She made light of his fears, twisting his right hand till it was helpless in her two hands
and laughing at him. "How do you know I won't do it?"

"Because I've asked you before. This is it: marry me, now, here, to-day, and don't take any
more chances out there."

"But, Henry," protested Nan, "I can't marry you now and just run away from poor Uncle Duke.
If you will just be patient, I'll bring him around to our side."

"Never, Nan."

"Don't be so sure. I know him better than you do, and when he comes for anybody, he comes all
at once. Why, it's funny, Henry. Now that I'm picking up courage, you're losing it!"

He shook his head. "I don't like the way things are going."

"Dearie," she urged, "should I be any safer at home if I were your wife, than I am as your
sweetheart. I don't want to start a horrible family war by running away, and that is just what
I certainly should do."

De Spain was unconvinced. But apprehension is short-lived in young hearts. The sun shone, the
sky spread a speckless blue over desert and mountain, the day was for them together. They did
not promise all of it to themselves at once--they filched its sweetness bit by bit, moment
by moment, and hour by hour, declaring to each other they must part, and dulling the pain of
parting with the anodyne of procrastination. Thus, the whole day went to their castles and
dreams. In a retired corner of the cool dining-room at the Mountain House, they lingered together
over a long-drawn-out dinner. The better-informed guests by asides indicated their presence
to others. They described them as the hardy couple who had first met in a stiff Frontier Day
rifle match, which the girl had won. Her defeated rival--the man now most regarded and feared
in the mountain country--was the man with the reticent mouth, mild eyes, curious birthmark,
and with the two little, perplexed wrinkles visible most of the time just between his dark
eyebrows, the man listening intently to every syllable that fell from the lips of the trimly
bloused, active girl opposite him, leaning forward in her eagerness to tell him things. Her
jacket hung over the back of her chair, and she herself was referred to by the more fanciful
as queen of the outlaw camp at Music Mountain.

They two were seen together that day about town by many, for the story of their courtship was
still veiled in mystery and afforded ground for the widest speculation, while that of their
difficulties, and such particulars as de Spain's fruitless efforts to conciliate Duke Morgan
and Duke's open threats against de Spain's life were widely known. All these details made the
movement and the fate of the young couple the object of keenly curious comment.

In the late afternoon the two rode almost the whole length of Main Street together on their
way to the river bridge. Every one knew the horseflesh they bestrode--none cleaner-limbed,
hardier, or faster in the high country. Those that watched them amble slowly past, laughing
and talking, intent only on each other, erect, poised, and motionless, as if moulded to their
saddles, often spoke of having seen Nan and her lover that day. It was a long time before they
were seen riding down Main Street together again.

CHAPTER XXIII

DE SPAIN WORRIES

They parted that evening under the shadow of Music Mountain. Nan believed she could at least
win her Uncle Duke over from any effort of Gale's to coerce her. Her influence over her uncle
had never yet failed, and she was firm in the conviction she could gain him to her side, since
he had everything to win and nothing to lose by siding against Gale, whom he disliked and distrusted,
anyway.

For de Spain there was manifestly nothing to do but doubtfully to let Nan try out her influence.
They agreed to meet in Calabasas just as soon as Nan could get away. She hoped, she told him,
to bring good news. De Spain arranged his business to wait at Calabasas for her, and was there,
after two days, doing little but waiting and listening to McAlpin's stories about the fire
and surmises as to strange men that lurked in and about the place. But de Spain, knowing Jeffries
was making an independent investigation into the affair, gave no heed to McAlpin's suspicions.

