The Oshkosh, Wisconsin, Daily Northwestern felt that a large influx of colored people would
bring to the North the same perplexing problems that long have disturbed the people of the
southern States.

    This, in fact, is the most serious aspect of this reported
    migration of southern blacks, and it is suggestive of no end
    of trouble for some of the northern States, which heretofore
    have regarded the so-called negro problem as something which
    little concerns them. The South has struggled for years to
    solve this problem, with its many phases and angles, and
    never yet has found a satisfactory solution. Should the same
    baffling questions be forced on the North it would give the
    people something to think about, and many will gain a new
    appreciation of the perplexities of the southern whites. And
    the necessity of facing this new problem may come to the North
    much sooner than generally is expected.

The Springfield, Massachusetts, Union[163] was also of the opinion that:

    The North has been strong for the negro, considered as a
    political entity, but our communities are manifestly not
    desirous of supplying a field for him to expand and adapt
    himself to the social structure, and their leaders experience
    more difficulty in this regard than do their co-laborers in
    the South, with its vast colored population. This in itself
    furnished food for careful thought.

    In a way, there is justification for a disinclination on the
    part of New Englanders to add a large negro element to their
    number. We have enough of a problem already to absorb and
    educate the large alien element that has come into our midst
    from the Old World. Our duty toward our colored residents
    should not go unrecognized, and the first step toward a just
    and fair disposal of related problems is to admit frankly that
    a rather strict color line is being drawn among us.

The Beloit, Wisconsin, News[164] held that the migration had brought the negro problem north
and made it national:

    The negro problem has moved north. Rather, the negro problem
    has spread from south to north; and beside it in the South is
    appearing a stranger to that clime--the labor problem.

    It's a double development brought about by the war in Europe,
    and the nation has not yet realized its significance. Within
    a few years, experts predict the negro population of the North
    will be tripled. It's your problem, then, or it will be when
    the negro moves next door.

    Italians and Greeks are giving way to the negroes in the
    section gangs along northern railroads, as you can see from
    the train windows, and as labor agents admit. Northern cities
    that had only small colored populations are finding their
    "white" sections invaded by negro families, strangers to the
    town. Many cities are in for the experience that has befallen
    all communities on the edge of the North and South--gradual
    encroachment of colored folks on territory occupied by whites;
    depreciation in realty values and lowering of rents, and
    finally, moving of the white families to other sections,
    leaving the districts in possession of colored families with a
    small sprinkling of whites.

    This means racial resentment--for the white family that moves
    to escape negro proximity always carries, justly or not, a
    prejudice against the black race. It hits your pocket too.

    Negroes will enter trades now monopolized by white men,
    at first, perhaps, as strike breakers; later, as non-union
    competitors, working for smaller wages. It will take some
    time, probably, to get them into the labor unions' way of
    thinking.

    Politicians, both good and bad, will seek the ballot of a
    large new element, which will vote largely in the lump. Now,
    what will be the effect in the southern States? Already the
    offers of better jobs further north have caused strikes among
    southern negroes--something almost unheard of. The South gets
    no immigration, but the negro has been an ever present
    source of cheap labor. With the black tide setting north, the
    southern negro, formerly a docile tool, is demanding better
    pay, better food and better treatment. And no longer can the
    South refuse to give it to him. For when the South refuses the
    negro moves away. It's a national problem now, instead of a
    sectional problem. And it has got to be solved.

The New York Globe[165] said that:

    For more than a year a migration of men and women of color to
    northern States has been going on that has already deprived
    thousands of southern farmers of cheap labor. And the movement
    bids fair to continue. That it will have both good and bad
    effects is obvious. It will distribute the negro population
    more evenly throughout the States and thus tend to diminish
    race friction. But unless there is a change of spirit on the
    part of northern unions, it will increase the danger of labor
    troubles in case of industrial depression.

The Pittsburgh Dispatch[166] held that the migration was helping the negro. It was of the opinion
that:

    This movement eastward and westward of unskilled negro labor
    will both directly and indirectly help the negro. The younger
    element, those of ambition and of some training in the
    schools, will be constantly emerging from unskilled to the
    semiskilled classes, with a consequent increase in their pay
    rolls and a betterment in their methods of living.

    A decidedly better treatment of the negro, both in the North
    and the South, will grow out of the fact that the demand for
    his labor has been limited and the supply unlimited.

In the spring of 1918 the Walla Walla, Washington, Bulletin[167] summed up the situation thus:

    There was much alarm a year or two ago over the migration of
    negroes to the North in large numbers. It was felt that they
    had far better stay in the South, in a familiar and congenial
    environment, and keep on raising cotton and food, than crowd
    into the inhospitable North for unaccustomed factory work. We
    have heard less of that lately; it is still doubtful whether
    the change is good for the negro himself, and there's no
    question that his coming has complicated housing conditions
    and social problems in northern cities. But economically the
    matter appears in a new light. At a time when war industries
    were starving for labor, the negro provided the labor. He is
    recognized as a new industrial asset.

    The migration has been unfortunate, to be sure, for the
    communities thus deprived of agricultural labor; but it is
    said that from a broad, national standpoint the gain to the
    manufacturing industries more than compensates. And there has
    been an actual increase in the output of energy. The negro
    works harder in the North. He produces more. He is thus of
    more use to the community. And for the benefit he brings,
    communities are more willing than they were at first to
    tolerate the inconvenience due to his coming.

Some of the negro newspapers opposed the migration. Prominent among these was the Journal and
Guide of Norfolk, Virginia, and the Voice of the People of Birmingham, Alabama. In speaking
against the migration, the Journal and Guide[168] said:

    It is difficult, if not impossible, to check the operation of
    an economic law, and it is perfectly natural that men should
    seek fields of labor in which they are promised higher
    wages and better conditions, but those who go and those
    who encourage the going of them should get the facts of the
    so-called inducements and learn the truth about them before
    lending their influence to a movement that can not only
    promise no permanent good to laborers, but works untold injury
    to the foundation of their own economic structure.

    Another phase of the matter, and one that invites the
    condemnation of all honest persons, is the manner in which
    negro labor is at present exploited to satisfy the selfish
    whims of a group of misguided and ill-advised agitators and
    fanatics on the race question. All of the nice talk about
    "fleeing from southern oppression," and going where "equal
    rights and social privileges" await them is pure buncombe. It
    is strange that negro labor should stand the oppression of the
    South for fifty years and suddenly make up its mind to move
    northward as an evidence of its resentment.

    The truth of the matter is that the element of negroes in the
    South that feel the oppression most is not concerned in the
    migration movement. Nor are they going to leave their homes
    and accumulations of half a century as a solution of their
    problems. They are going to remain here and fight out their
    constitutional rights accorded them here in the land of their
    birth.

The editor of The Star of Zion, Charlotte, North Carolina,[169] conceded the right of the negro
to go wherever he had opportunity to go; on the other hand, it was doubtful whether a wholesale
exodus was for the best. He said:

    While I concede the black man's right to go where he likes,
    for he has the right of liberty and the pursuit of happiness,
    yet I doubt the wisdom of such wholesale exodus from the
    South. There are some things which the negro needs far more
    than his wages, or some of the rights for which he contends.
    He needs conservation of his moral life.

    In the North a negro is brought face to face with new
    problems; among the many is the problem of adjusting himself
    to the abundance of freedom into which he comes so suddenly.
    His new freedom brings him new changes, as well as new
    opportunities, for among the roses there lies the thorn....
    While the inducements of the North are very alluring, in the
    end the negro problem must be wrought out in the South.

Concerning the Journal and Guide's position, the Raleigh, North Carolina, Independent[170]
took issue and said:

    Our disagreement with our estimable contemporary, the Norfolk
    Journal and Guide, we are persuaded, is far less real than
    seeming. Essentially we are in accord. We are certain that the
    Journal and Guide is not advocating the limitation of the
    negro to any one section of the country. If the exigencies
    of the present war have created a demand for his labor in the
    North at better wages than he can secure in the South like
    other people, he should take advantage of it and plant himself
    firmly in the industrial life of the section.

    There are two ways by which we may improve our condition in
    this country. The one is segregation--voluntary segregation.
    The other is "scatteration." If we can come together, build
    up communities of our own, promote them into towns and even
    cities, we shall do well. If, on the other hand, we shall
    scatter all over the land and have nowhere a numerical
    congestion, we strengthen our cause.

The Dallas (Texas) Express[171] said:

    The strangest thing, the real mystery about the exodus, is
    that in all the Southland there has not been a single meeting
    or promoter to start the migration. Just simultaneously all
    over the South about a year ago, the negro began to cross the
    Mason and Dixon line. Indeed, this is a most striking case
    where the negro has been doing a great deal more thinking than
    talking, knowing he is not given the freedom of speech. Who
    knows, then, what the providence of God is in this exodus.
    This exodus is not by any means confined to the worthless or
    the ignorant negro. A large per cent of the young negroes
    in this exodus are rather intelligent. Many of the business
    houses in Houston, Dallas and Galveston, where the exodus is
    greatest in Texas, have lost some of their best help. To tell
    the truth more fully, the negroes generally throughout the
    South are more dissatisfied with conditions than they have
    been for several years and there are just reasons why they
    should be. Every negro newspaper and publication in this broad
    land, including pamphlets and books, and the intelligent negro
    pastor with backbone and courage are constantly protesting
    against the injustices done the negro. And possibly these
    agents have been the greatest incentives to help create and
    crystallize this unrest and migration.

How the negro should be treated and what would hold him in the South was discussed at length
and on many occasions in the columns of the Atlanta (Georgia) Independent.[172] An example
of this discussion follows:

    Last week we discussed at length the negro exodus. We tried to
    point out in plain, simple and manly language the reason and
    remedy for moving north. We warned our white neighbors that
    city ordinances and legislation could not stem the tide;
    that humane treatment would do more to settle the negro's
    industrial and economic unrest than anything else; that the
    South was his natural home and he desired to stay here; but in
    order to keep him at home he must have contentment; he had to
    be assured of protection of life and property; assured of
    the enjoyment of public utilities; assured of educational
    advantages, ample and adequate, to prepare his children for
    useful and helpful citizenship; he must be permitted to serve
    God unmolested and to assemble in the community where he
    lives, in church, in society and politics; for his own moral,
    intellectual and physical benefit he must be given living
    wages and reminded in his daily dealings with his white
    neighbor that he is a citizen, not a negro, and that he is
    charged with responsibilities like other citizens. The negro
    is conscious of his racial identity and not ashamed of it. He
    is proud of his race and his color, but does not like to have
    the word "negro" define his relation as a citizen. The white
    man should understand that the negro is making progress;
    that he is getting property and education; that his wants are
    increasing in common with the white man's wants and that he is
    not going to be bottled up or hemmed up in any community, so
    long as there is another community on the face of the earth
    where he can breathe freely and enjoy the pursuits of life,
    liberty and happiness in common with other men.

The Christian Index[173] the official organ of the Colored Methodist Episcopal Church, published
at Jackson, Tennessee, was of the opinion that:

    There are two sets of causes for the negro leaving the South
    at this time. One set may be known as the surface causes and
    the other set beneath-the-surface causes. The surface causes
    are easily seen and understood. These are economic causes. The
    war in Europe has called home foreigners out of the industrial
    centers of the North and West. These large factories and other
    industrial enterprises, representing enormous investments,
    had to turn in some other direction for labor. These large
    industrial opportunities with higher wages made strong appeals
    to the southern negro.

    The beneath-the-surface causes are to be found in the
    handicaps under which the negro labors in the South and
    the uncivilized treatment to which he is subjected. He is
    segregated. To this he most strenuously objects. There is a
    difference between segregation and separation, especially so
    in the southern interpretation of segregation as observed
    in the practice of the South in its enforcement of the idea.
    Separation in matters social and religious is not necessarily
    objectionable. Left alone each race group instinctively seeks
    separation from other race groups. But segregation, as we
    have it, means more than separation; it means inferiority and
    humiliation. It means not only another section of the city for
    the negro, but a section that is inferior in improvement
    and protection; it means not only a different school, but an
    inferior school both in building and equipment; it means not
    only separate accommodations on the railroads, but deplorably
    inferior accommodations; this, too, in the face of the fact
    that the negro pays the same price that is paid by others.

    Another cause is the code of laws, or rather the practice of
    it, that gives more concern to the color of a man's skin than
    to the merits of a case he may have in the courts of justice.
    The negro is taught not to expect justice in the courts,
    however industrious, honest, law abiding he may be, when his
    lawful rights to liberty and protection are contested by a
    white man. The negro suffers in the courts, not always because
    he is guilty, not because he lacks character, but because his
    skin, not his heart, is black.

What was the attitude of the northern negroes toward the migration? With some exceptions, negroes
north assumed a friendly attitude toward the migrants. Many of these residents of the North
were themselves but recently come from the South. The newcomers were looked upon as brethren,
just coming into the "Promised Land." They were welcomed in the churches and otherwise made
to feel at home. In some cities there were organizations of resident negroes to look after
the welfare of the new arrivals. In the northern race newspapers, the attitude of the negro
north was fully set forth, as the following extracts from the New York News[174] indicate:

    We hail with no alarm whatever the influx of colored men
    from the South. The colored people of the North will be
    strengthened by the hard working, ambitious laborers added to
    their numbers. The laboring conditions and life of the masses
    of the colored people in the South will be made better and
    brighter by their leaving.

    Yet a heavy responsibility rests upon every colored leader,
    moral and civic, in these northern States to take an especial
    interest in their newly arriving brethren. You must teach
    them not to take their liberty to be ladies and gentlemen for
    license to degrade themselves and their race here. You must
    urge them to avoid the deadly vice and wasting extravagance of
    the unhealthy congested city. They should find their homes and
    rear their families in the suburbs, where they can buy their
    own homes and properly train their children in head, hand and
    heart. Urge them to get steady work and settle down. Urge them
    to become good citizens and better parents. Urge them to go to
    church, to lead patient Christian lives and all will come out
    well in the end.

The Philadelphia Christian Recorder[175] took the ground that:

    1. The negro is an American. He speaks the language of the
    country and is, therefore, superior to the foreigner in this
    respect.

    2. He knows the customs of the country and here again has the
    advantage of the foreigner.

    3. He is a peaceable worker and is glad to have an opportunity
    to make good.

    4. The negro is physically the equal and morally the superior
    of the immigrant from Europe.

