"Yes ma'm, I was sold from Richmond, Virginia. Dr. Jenkins bought my mother when I was a little
girl walkin' and talkin'. Put me up on the block and sold me too. I was bout three years old.

"Dr. Jenkins was mighty good to his hands. Say he was goin' to raise his little darkies up
back of his chair. He thought lots of his colored folks.

"I member seein' the Rebels ridin' horses, three double, down the road time of the war. I used
to run off from mama to the county band--right where the roundhouse is now. Mama used to have
to come after me. You know I wasn't no baby when I shed all my teeth durin' slavery days.

"Yankee soldiers? Oh Lord--seed em by fifties and hundreds. Used to pint the gun at me jest
to hear me holler and cry. I was scared of em. They come in and went in Dr. Jenkins' dairy
and got what they wanted. And every morning they'd blow that bugle, bugle as long as a broom
handle. Heard em blow 'Glory, Glory Hallelujah'. I liked to hear em blow it.

"Yankees marched all up and down the river road. They'd eat them navy beans. I used to see
where they throwed em in the fence corner. Saw so many I don't like em now. They called em
navy beans and I called em soldier beans.

"I member it well. I'm a person can remember. Heap a folks tell what other folks see but I
tell what I see. Don't tell what nobody told me and what I heard.

"I member when they had the battle in Pine Bluff. We was bout three miles from here when they
fit-up here. I member all of it.

"They started to send us to Texas and we got as far as the ravine when they heard the Yankees
wasn't comin' so we went back home.

"I stayed round the house with the white folks and didn't know what nothin' was till after
surrender. We stayed with Dr. Jenkins for a week or two after surrender, then a man come and
took my mother down in the country. I don't know what she was paid--she never did tell us her
business.

"I was mama's onliest girl and she worked me day and night. Hoed and picked cotton and sewed
at night. Mama learned me to knit and I used to crochet a lot. She sure learned me to work
and I ain't sorry.

"I worked in the field till I come out to marry a railroad man. I never went to school but
two or three months in my life directly after freedom. My husband was a good scholar and he
learned me how to read and write. I learned my daughter how to read and write so when she started
to school they didn't have to put her in the chart class. When she was six years old she could
put down a figger as quick as you can.

"Been married four times and they's all dead now. Ain't got nobody but myself. If it wasn't
for the white folks don't know what I'd do.

"I used to cook for Dr. Higginbotham when she had company. She couldn't do without old Nely.
One time she sent for me to cook some hens. I soaked em in soda water bout an hour and fried
em and you couldn't tell em from friers.

"I'm weak in my limbs now but I believe in stirrin'. Welfare helps me but I quilts for people.
Yes'm, I stirs--if I didn't I just couldn't stand it.

"This here younger generation is gone. They ain't goin'--they's gone. Books ain't done no good.
I used to teach the Bible lesson once a week, but I don't fool with em now. Ain't got no manners--chews
gum and whispers.

"I got great grand children lives in Houston and they don't give me a penny. I don't know what
I'd do if twasn't for the Welfare.

"Used to wash and iron. I've ironed twenty shirts in one-half a day."

  MAY 11 1938
  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: "Happy Day" Green
                      Near Barton and Helena, Arkansas
  Age: Grown during the Civil War

"I don't know how old I is, young mistress. I was here 'fore the Civil War, young mistress.
I was born in South, Alabama, young mistress. Well, it was nigh Montgomery, Alabama, young
mistress. My mama name Emily Green. She had three children to my knowing. I don't know no father.
My owner was Boss William Green, young mistress. His wife was Miss Lizabuth, young mistress.
They did have a big family, young mistress. To my knowing it was: Billy, Charlie, Bunkum, Ida,
Mary, Sally, Jimmy, Buddy. I never went to school a day in my life, young mistress. When I
come on big 'nuff to work I had to help keer for mama and two girl sisters, young mistress.

"When I come to this state, Van Vicks and Bill Bowman immigrated one hundred head of us. They
landed some of us at Helena. Our family was landed at Phillips Bayou, young mistress.

"I was a cowboy, me and George. He was another black boy, young mistress. We kept flies offen
Boss William Green and Miss Lizabuth, young mistress. They took naps purt nigh every day when
it be the long days (in summer), young mistress. Mama was milk woman. Boss William Green had
goats and 'bout a dozen heads of milch cows, young mistress. I was willed to Mars Billy. He
went off to war and died 'fore the War begun, young mistress.

"Nobody run 'way from Boss William Green. He told 'em if they run off he would whoop 'em. He
didn't have no dogs, young mistress. They be a white man near by owned nigger hounds, young
mistress. He take his hounds, go hunt a runaway, young mistress. You would pay him, I reckon,
young mistress.

"I did get some whoopings, young mistress. They used a cow hide strap on me, young mistress.
They blistered me a right smart, young mistress.

"We didn't have so much to eat. They give us one peck meal, four pounds meat a week. Mama done
our cooking, young mistress. We had good clothes, warm clothes, woolen clothes, young mistress.
We had a few sheep about the place. We had a few geese 'mong the turkeys, guineas, ducks, and
chickens. They kept the peafowls for good luck, young mistress.

"Fur a fact they had a big garden, young mistress. Boss William Green worked the garden. He
made us pull the plow--four of us boys. He said the stock would tromp down more'n they'd make,
young mistress. Two of his boys and me and George pulled his plough. We had a big garden.

"I chopped in the field, picked up chips on the clearings. I chopped cook wood right smart,
young mistress.

"When freedom come on, grandpa come after mama. Boss William Green told her, 'You free.' He
give her ten bushels corn, good deal of meat--back bone and spareribs. He come one Saturday
evening, young mistress. She took 'long whatever she had at our house in the way of clothing
and such lack, young mistress. Well, grandpa was share crapping, young mistress.

"The Ku Kluckses come one night. They kept us getting 'em water to run through something under
their sheets. The water was running out on the ground. We did see it for a fact, young mistress.
We was scared not to do that. They was getting submission over the country, young mistress.
They would make you be quiet 'long the roadside, young mistress. They would make you be quiet
where you have meeting. They would turn the pots down on the floor at the doors, young mistress.
The Ku Kluckses whooped some, tied some out to trees and left 'em. They was rough, young mistress.

"I worked in the field all my life.

"Times is good fer me, young mistress. I live with my niece. I get twelve dollars assistance
'cause I been sick, young mistress. I owns a pony. All I owns, young mistress.

"I hab voted, young mistress. I'm too old to vote now, young mistress. I reckon I voted both
ways some, young mistress.

"Young folks is so strong and happy they is different from old folks, young mistress."

  #774
  Interviewer: Watt McKinney
  Person interviewed: Henry Green
                      Barton, Arkansas
  Age: 90

Uncle Henry Green, an ex-slave ninety years of age, is affectionately known throughout a large
part of Phillips County as "Happy Day". This nickname, acquired in years long past, was given
him no doubt partly on account of his remarkably happy disposition, but mainly on account of
his love for the old religious song, "Happy Day", that Uncle Henry has enjoyed so long to sing
and the verses of which his voice still carries out daily over the countryside each morning
promptly at daybreak and again at sundown.

Uncle Henry and his old wife, Louisa, live with Uncle Henry's sister, Mattie Harris, herself
seventy-five years of age, on a poor forty acre farm that Mattie owns in the Hyde Park community
just off the main highway between Walnut Corner and West Helena. Henry acts as janitor at the
Lutherian Church at Barton and the three do such farming as they are able on the thin acres
and with the few dollars that they receive each month from the Welfare Board together with
the supplies furnished them at the Relief Office these three old folks are provided with the
bare necessities sufficient to sustain them.

Uncle Henry, his wife and sister Mattie are the most interesting of the several ex-slave Negroes
in this county whom it has been my pleasure and good fortune to interview. As I sat with them
on the porch of their old, rambling log house the following incidents and account of their
lives were given with Uncle Henry talking and Mattie and Louisa offering occasional explanations
and corrections:

"Yes sir, Boss Man, my right name is Henry Green but eberybody, dey all calls me 'Happy Day'.
Dat is de name whut mos' all calls me fer so long now dat heap of de folks, dey don't eben
know dat my name is sho nuf Henry Green. I sho ain't no baby, Boss Man, kase I is been here
er long time, dat I is, and near as I kin cum at hit I is ninety years old er mo, kase Mattie
sey dat de lady in de cote-house tell her dat I is ninety-fo, en dat wuz three years er go.
I is er old nigger, Boss Man, en er bout de onliest old pusson whut is lef er round here in
dis part of de county. I means whut is sho nuf old, en what wuz born way bak in de slabery
times, way fo de peace wuz 'clared.

"Us wuz borned, dat is me en sister Mattie, er way bak dere in Souf Alabama, down below Montgomery,
in de hills, en on de big place whut our ole marster, William Green, had, en whar de tanyard
wuz. Yo see, old marster, he runned er big tanyard wid all de res of he bizness, whar dey tan
de hides en mek de shoes en leather harness en sich lak, en den too, marster, he raise eberything
on de place. All whut he need fer de niggers en he own fambly, lak cotton, wheat, barley, rice
en plenty hogs en cows. Iffen peace hadn't er been 'clared en Marse Billy hadn't er died I
wuz gwine ter be Marse Billy's property, kase I wuz already willed ter Marse Billy. Marse Billy
wuz old Marster William Green's oldest son chile, en Marse Billy claimed me all de while. Marse
Billy, he went off to de War whar he tukkin sik en died in de camp, 'fore he cud eben git in
de fitin.

"Atter de War wuz ober en peace cum, my grandmammy en my grandpappy, dey cum en got my mammy
en all us chillun en tuk us wid dem ter Montgomery, en dat wuz whar us wuz when dem two Yankee
mens immigrated us here ter Arkansas. Dey immigrated er bout er hundred head er niggers at
de same time dat us cum. My grandpappy en my grandmammy, dey didn't belong ter old Marster
William Green. I jist don't know whut white folks dey did belong ter, but I knows dat dey sho
cum en got my mammy en us chillun. Old marster, he neber mine dem er leavin' en tole 'em dat
dey free, en kin go if us want ter go, en when us left old marster gib mammy ten bushels er
corn en some hog heads en spareribs en tole her ter bring de chillun bak er gin 'fore long
kase he gwine ter gib all de chillun some shoes at de tanyard, but us neber did go bak ter
git dem shoes kase we wuz immigrated soon atter den.

"No sir, Boss Man, we don't know nuthin' 'bout who our pappy wuz. Dar wuzn't no niggers much
in slabery times whut knowed nuthin' 'bout dey pappys. Dey jes knowed who dey mammys is. Dats
all dey knowed 'bout dat. Us neber hab no pappy, jes er mammy whut wuz name Emily Green.

"Boss Man, yo see how black I is en kinky dat my hair is en yo can see dat me en sister Mattie
is sho pure niggers wid no brown in us. Well, yo know one thing, Boss Man, en dis is sho whut
my mammy done tole us er heap er times, en dat is dat when I wuz born dat de granny woman runned
ter old mis en tell her ter cum en look at dat baby whut Emily done gibed birth ter, and dat
I wuz nigh 'bout white en hed straight hair en blue eyes, en when old mis seed me dat she so
mad dat she gib mammy er good stroppin kase I born lak dat but hit warn't long atter I born
'fore I gits black, en old mis see den dat I er pure nigger, en den she tell mammy dat she
sorry dat she stropped her 'bout me being white en er habin blue eyes en straight hair. No
sir, Boss Man, I jes don't know how cum I change but dat sho is whut mammy did tell us. Sister
Mattie, she know dat.

"Yes sir, Boss Man, I kin tell you all er bout de old slabery times, en cordin ter whut I'se
thinkin', en fer as me myself is, wid de times so tight lak dey is now days wid me, and all
de time be er stud'in' 'bout how ter git er long, hit wud be er heap better fer hit to be lak
hit wuz den, kase us neber hed nuthin ter worry 'bout den cept ter do dat whut we wuz tole
ter do, en all de eatin' en de cloes wuz gib ter us. Our marster trained us up right, fer ter
do our wuk good en ter obey whut de white folks sey en ter sho be polite to de white folks,
en atter us lef old marster den our mammy she trained us de same way, en we is always polite,
kase manners is cheap.

"All de nigger chillun in slabery time wore slips, bofe de gals en de boys. Dere wuzn't no
breeches fer de little ones eben atter dey git old enuf ter wuk en go ter de fiel's, dey still
wear dem slips, en dey used ter feed us outen dem big wooden bowls whut dey mix de bread up
in, wid sometimes de pot-likker, en sometimes mostly wid de milk, en de chillun, dey go atter
dat grub en git hit all ober dey faces en dey hands en dey slips en er bout de time dey git
through eatin' de old mis she cum out en when dey through old mis, she hab 'em ter wash dey
hands en faces nice en clean.

"On dem Sundays dat de marster want all de niggers ter go ter church fer de preachin', he send
dem all de order ter wash up good en clean en put on dey clean cloes en git ready fer de preachin',
en fust ter cum up dar whar he waitin' ter see dat dey look good en nice en clean, en when
us git up dar ter de house lookin' fresh en good, de marster's folks, dey talk lak dis ter
one er nudder; dey sey: 'Look er here at my nigger, Henry, dat boy is lookin' fine. He is gwine
ter be er big healthy man en er good wukker,' en atter dey all done looked all de niggers ober
dey tell 'em ter be gwine on ter de church en dey go on en sit in de bak behine all de white
folks en hear de white man preach. Dar wuzn't no nigger preachers in dem days dat I ever seed.

"Now I know dat yo has heard of dem paddyrollers. Well, I tell yo, Boss Man, dem paddyrollers,
dey wuz bilious. Dey wuz de mens whut rid out on de roads at night ter see dat all dem niggers
whut wuz out en off dey marster's places hed er pass from dey marsters. Dem paddyrollers, dey
wud stop er nigger whut dey find out at night en sey, 'Boy, whar yo gwine? En is yo got yo
pass?' En de Lawd help dem niggers whut dey cotch widout dat pass. Iffen er nigger be cotch
out et night widout de pass writ down on de paper frum he marster, en dem paddyrollers cotch
him, dat nigger sho haf ter do sum good prayin' en pretty talkin' er else dey tek him ter whar
dey got four stobs drove down in de groun en dey tie he hans en feet ter dem stobs en den ware
him out wid er big heaby strop. De mostest reason dat sometimes de niggers out at night is
on account dey courtin' some gal whut libes on some udder place. When yo see de paddyrollers
er comin' en yo ain't got no pass writ down on de paper en yo don't want ter git er stroppin,
den de onliest thing fer yo ter do is ter run en try ter git on yer marster's place 'fore dey
git yo, er try ter dodge 'em er somepin lak dat. Iffen de paddyrollers got dem nigger hounds
wid 'em when de nigger break en run, den de onliest thing dat de nigger kin do den is ter wuk
de conjure. He kin wuk dat conjure on dem hounds in seberal different ways. Fust, he kin put
er liddle tuppentine on he feet er in he shoe, en er lot er times dat will frow de hounds off
de track, er else, iffen he kin git er hold er some fresh dirt whar er grabe ain't been long
dug, en rub dat on he feet, den dat is er good conjure, en mo dan dat iffen he kin git ter
catch er yearlin calf by der tail en step in de drappins whar dat calf done runned er long
wid him er holdin' on ter de tail, den dat is a sho conjure ter mak dem hounds lose de track,
en dat nigger kin dodge de paddyrollers.

"Lak I sey, Boss Man, 'bout de onliest thing dat de niggers in slabery time wud lebe de place
at night fer, wud be dey courtin', en mostly den on er Wednesday er Saturday night, so I gwine
ter tell yo how dey sometimes dodge de paddyrollers whilst dey courtin' dere wimmens at night.
Yo see, mos' all de wimmens, dey be er wukkin at night on dey tasks dat dere old mis gib 'em
ter do, er weavin' er de cloth. Dese wimmens wud be er settin' 'roun de fire weavin' de cloth
en de nigger be dar too er courtin' de gal, en all ter once here cum dem paddyrollers, some
at de front door en some at de back door, en when de wimmens er hear 'em er comin', dey raise
er loose plank in de flo whut dey done made loose fer dis bery puppus, en de nigger he den
drap right quick down 'neath de flo twix de jists, en de wimmens den slap de plank right bak
in place on top er de man ter hide him, so iffen de paddyrollers does come in dat dey see dat
dere ain't no man in dar. Dat wuz de way dat de niggers used ter fool 'em heap er times.

"I 'members dem days well when de War gwine on yit I neber did see no Yankee mens er tall,
en de closest dat us eber cumbed ter see de Yankees wuz dat time when old marster hed de horn
blowed ter signal de niggers ter git de kerrige hosses en de milk cows off ter de woods kase
he had done heard dat de Yankees wuz er cumin, but dey missed us en dem Yankees, dey neber
find old marster's place. I seed some of our sojer mens do, once, atter us lef old marster
en go ter Montgomery wid our grandpappy. Dese sojer mens, dey come in ter town on de train
bak frum de War whar dey been fitin fer so long, en dey happy en singin', dey so glad dat peace
done 'clared. Hit wuz er whole train full er dem Fedrit sojers, en dey wimmens en chilluns
all dere er huggin' en er kissin' 'em ginst dey git off de train en gibin 'em cakes en sich
good things ter eat.

"Yes sir, Boss Man, de niggers wuz treated good in slabery times en wuz trained up right, ter
wuk, en obey, en ter hab good manners. Our old marster, he neber wud sell er nigger en he feed
'em good, en dey lub en 'spected him. Yo sho hed better 'spect him, en iffen yo didn't dat
strop wud be er flyin'. All er old marster's niggers wuz good multiplyin' peoples. Dey sho
wuz, en dey raise big famblies. Dats one thing whut er woman hed ter be in dem days er she
sho be sold quick. Iffen she ain't er good multiplier dey gwine ter git shut er her rail soon.
Day tuk extra pains wid dem good multiplyin' wimmins too en neber gib dem no heaby wuk ter
do no mo dan weavin' de cloth er sich roun de place.

"Whilst our old marster, he neber sell no niggers, de speculators, dey hab 'em fer sale er
plenty, en I has seed 'em er passin' in de road en er long string er gwine ter de place whar
de sale gwine ter be. 'Fore dey git ter de sale place dey roach dem niggers up good jes lak
dey roach er mule, en when dey put 'em on de block fer de white mens ter bid de price on 'em
den dey hab 'em ter cut de shines en de pidgeon wing fer ter show off how supple dey is, so
dey bring de bes' price.

"Dey neber hed no farm bells in slabery times fer ter ring en call de hans in en outen de fiel's.
Dey hed horns whut dey blowed early en late. De wuk wud go on till hit so dark dat dey can't
see. Den de horn wud blow en de niggers all cum in en git dey supper, en cook dey ash cakes
in de fire whut dey build in dey own cabins. Boss Man, is yo eber et er ash cake? I don't 'spects
dat yo know how ter mek one er dem ash cakes. I gwine ter tell yo how dat is done. Fust yo
git yo some good home groun meal en mix hit well wid milk er water en a liddle salt an bakin'
powder whut yo mek outen red corn cobs, den yo pat dem cakes up right good en let 'em settle,
den put 'em in de hot ashes in de fireplace en kiver 'em up good wid some mo hot ashes en wait
till dey done, en Boss Man, yo sho is got er ash cake dat is fitten ter eat. Dats de way dat
us made 'em in slabery times en de way dat us yit meks 'em. Us didn't know whut white bread
wuz in de old days, hardly, 'ceptin sometimes 'roun de marster's kitchen er nigger wud git
er hold of er biscuit. All de bread dat de slabe niggers git wud be made outen cornmeal er
dem brown shorts whut de marsters gib 'em in de rashions.

"Us wuz all well fed do in slabery times en kept in good fat condition. Ebery once in er while
de marster wud hab er cow kilt en de meat 'stributed out mongst de folks en dey cud always
draw all de rashions dat dey need.

"Dey used ter hab dem big corn shuckin's too in de old days. De corn wud be piled up in er
pile es big es er house en all de han's wud be scattered out roun' dat pile er corn shuckin'
fas' as dey cud, en atter dey done shucked dat pile er corn, ole marster wud hab two big hogs
kilt en cooked up in de big pots en kittles, en den dem niggers wud eat en frolic fer de longes',
mekin music wid er hand saw en er tin pan, en er dancin', en laffin, en cuttin' up, till dey
tired out. Dem wuz good days, Boss Man. I sho wish dat I cud call dem times bak ergin. De marsters
whut hed de big places en de slabe niggers, dey hardly do no wuk er tall, kase dey rich wid
niggers en lan', en dem en dey famblies don't hab no wuk ter do, so de old marsters en de young
marsters, dey jes knock erbout ober de country on dey hosses, en de young misses en de old
misses, dey ride er bout in de fine kerrige wid de coachman er doin' de drivin'. Dey hab de
oberseers ter look atter de mekin er de crops, so de bosses, dey jes sort er manage, en see
dat de bizness go on de right way.

"De marsters en de misses, dey look atter dere niggers good do en see dat dey keep demselves
clean en 'spectible, en try ter keep de disease outen 'em. Ebery Monday mornin' dey gib 'em
all er little square, brown bottle er bitters fer dem ter take dat week. Dat wuz dere medicine,
but iffen er nigger do git sick, den dey sent fer de doctor right er way en hab de doctor ter
'zamine de sick one en sey, 'Doctor, kin you do dat nigger eny good?' er 'Do whut yo kin fer
dat nigger, Doctor, kase he is er valuable han' en wuth muney.'

"I neber wuz sick none do in my life, but I jes nathally been kilt, near 'bout, one time in
de gin when my head git cotched twixt de lever en de band wheel en Uncle Dick hed ter prize
de wheel up offen my head ter git me loose, en dat jes nigh 'bout peeled all de skin offen
my head. Old marster, he gib me er good stroppin fer dat too. Dat wuz fer not obeyin', kase
he hed done tole all us young niggers fer ter stay 'way frum de gin house.

"I wuzn't gwine ter be trained up ter wuk in de fiel's, I wuz trained ter be er pussonal servant
ter de marster, en sister Mattie, she wuz gwine ter be trained up ter be er house woman, en
so wuz my old woman, Louisa, kase her mammy wuz er house woman herself fer her white folks
in South Carolina, so I rekkin dats de reason us always thought we so much en better 'en de
ginral run er niggers.

"Yes sir, Boss Man, de niggers is easy fooled. Dey always is been dat way, en we wuz fooled
er way frum Alabama ter Arkansas by dem two Yankee mens, Mr. Van Vleet en Mr. Bill Bowman,
whut I tole yo er bout, dat brung dat hundred head er folks de time us cum. Dey tole us dat
in Arkansas dat de hogs jes layin' er roun already baked wid de knives en de forks stickin'
in 'em ready fer ter be et, en dat dere wuz fritter ponds eberywhars wid de fritters er fryin'
in dem ponds er grease, en dat dar wuz money trees whar all yo hed ter do wuz ter pik de money
offen 'em lak pickin' cotton offen de stalk, en us wuz sho put out when us git here en fine
dat de onliest meat ter be hed wuz dat whut wuz in de sto, en dem fritters hed ter be fried
in de pans, en dat dar warn't no money trees er tall. Hit warn't long 'fore my grandpappy en
my grandmammy, dey lef 'en went bak ter Alabama, but my mammy en us chillun, we jes stayed
on right here in Phillips County whar us been eber since, en right en dat room right dar wuz
whar us old mammy died long years er go.

"Well, Boss Man, yo done ax me en I sho gwine ter tell yo de truf. Yes sir, I sho is voted,
en I 'members de time well dat de niggers in de cotehouse en de Red Shirts hab ter git 'em
out. Dat wuz de bes' thing dat dey eber do when dey git de niggers outen de cotehouse en quit
'em frum holdin' de offices, kase er nigger not fit ter be no leader. I neber cud wuk under
no nigger. I jes nathally neber wud wuk under no nigger. I jist voted sich er length er time,
en when de Red Shirts, dey say dat er nigger not good enuf ter vote, en dey stopped me frum
votin', en I don't mess wid hit no mo.

"Yes sir, Boss Man, I blebe dat de Lawd lef' me here so long fer some good puppose, en I sho
hopes dat I kin stay here fer er heap er mo years. I jes nathally lubes de white folks en knows
dat dey is sho gwine ter tek care of old 'Happy Day', en ain't gwine ter let me git hurt.

"De young niggers in dis day sho ain't lak de old uns. Dese here young niggers is jes nathally
de cause of all de trubble. Dey jes ain't been raised right en ter be polite lak de old ones,
lak me, I don't hold it er gin yo, kase, mebbe yo pappy en yo mammy owned my pappy en my mammy
in slabery times en whupped 'em, kase I 'spects dat dey needed all de punishment whut dey got.
All de education whut I got, Boss Man, is jes ter wuk, en obey, en ter lib right.

"I knows dat I ain't here far many mo years, Boss Man, en I sho hopes dat I kin git ter see
some of my marsters, de Greens, ergin, 'fore I goes. I ain't neber been back since I lef, en
I ain't neber heard frum none of 'em since I been in Arkansas, en I know en cose dat all de
old uns is gone by now, but I 'spects dat some of de young uns is lef yit. I wud sho lak ter
go back dar ter de old place whar de tanyard wuz, but I neber wud hab dat much money ter pay
my way on de train, en den, I don't rekkin dat I cud fine de way nohow. I wud git some of de
white folks ter write er letter back dar fer me iffen I know whar ter send hit, er de name
of some of my young marsters whut mebbe is dar still. Yes sir, Boss Man, I sho hopes dat I
kin see some of dem white folks ergin, en dat some of dese days dey will fine me. Yo know I
is de janitor at de church at Walnut Corner whar de two hard roads cross, en whar all de cars
cum by. De cars, dey cum by dar frum eberywhars, en so ebery Sunday morning atter I gits through
er cleanin' up de church, I sets down on de bench dar close ter Mr. Gibson's sto, whar dey
sell de gasolene en de cold drinks, en whar de cars cum by frum eberywhar, en I sets dar er
lookin' at all dem white folks er passin' in dey cars, en sometimes dey stop fer ter git 'em
some gasolene er sumpin, en I says ter myself dat mebbe one er my young marsters sometimes
gwine ter be in one of dem cars, en gwine ter drive up dar er lookin' fer me. Er heap er times
when de cars stop dar will be er white gentman in de cars whut git out en see me a settin'
dar on de bench, en he sey, 'Uncle, yo is rail old, ain't yo?' An den he ax me my name en whar
I borned at, en er heap er times dey buy me er cigar. Well, Boss Man, dats how cum I sets on
dat bench dar at de road crossin' at Walnut Corner ebery Sunday, mos' all day, atter I gits
through er cleanin' up de church, jes settin' dar watchin' dem cars cum by en 'spectin one
of dese days fer one of my young marsters ter drive up en ter fine me er settin' dar waitin'
fer him, en when he cum, iffen he do, I know dat he sho gwine ter tek me back home wid him."

  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Frank Greene
                      2313 Saracen Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 78

"Yes'm, I can remember the Civil War and the Yankees, too. I can really remember the Yankees
and my old boss. I can't remember everything but I can remember certain things just as good.

"Dr. Ben Lawton was my old boss. That was in South Carolina. That was what they called Buford
County at that time.

"Had a place they called the Honey Hill Fight. I used to go up there and pick up balls.

"I can remember the Yankees had little old mules and blue caps and the folks was runnin' from 'em.

"I remember old boss run off and hid from 'em--first one place and then another.

"I remember the Yankees would grab up us little folks and put us on the mules--just for fun
you know. I can remember that just as well as if 'twas yesterday--seems like.

"They burned old boss's place down. He had five or six plantations and I know he come back
and rebuilt after peace declared, but he didn't live long.

"He wasn't a mean man. He was good to his folks. We stayed there two years after surrender
and when I come to this country, I left some of my uncles on that same place.

"I remember a white gentlemen in South Carolina would just jump his horse over the fence and
run over the folks, white and black, cotton and all. He was a rich man and he'd just pay 'em
off and go on. He wouldn't put up the fence neither. He was a hunter--a sporting man.

"Me? Yes ma'am, I used to vote--the Republican ticket. We ain't nothin' now, we can't vote.
I never had any trouble 'bout votin' here but in the old country we had some trouble. The Democrats
tried to keep us from votin'. Had to have the United States soldiers to open the way. That
was when Hays and Wheeler was runnin'.

"Here in the South the colored folks is free and they're not free. The white folks gets it
all anyway--in some places.

"But they ain't nobody bothered me in all my life--here or there.

"I went to school some after the war. Didn't have very much, but I learned to read and write
and 'tend to my own affairs.

"I have done farm work all my life and some public work. I got the same ambition to work as
I used to have but I can't hold it. I start out but I just can't hold it.

"Just to pass my opinion of the younger generation, some of 'em level-headed, but seems to
me like they is a little rougher than they was in my day.

"I think every one should live as an example for those coming behind."

  MAY 11 1938
  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: George Greene
                      Temporary--1700 Pulaski St., Little Rock, Ark.
                      Permanent--Wrightsville, Ark.
  Age: 85?

Birth and Age

"I don't know when I was born. I don't know exactly, but I was born in slavery time before
the War began. I was big enough to wait on the table when they was fighting. I remember when
they was setting the Negroes free. I was born in Aberdeen, Mississippi, in Monroe County. Seven
miles from the town of Aberdeen, out on the prairies, that is where I was born.

"I figure out my age by the white woman that raised me. She sent me my age. When they was working
the roads, my road boss, I told him I was forty-five years old and he didn't believe it. So
I sent to the white woman that raised me from a month-old child. When I left her, I'd done
got grown. Her name was Narcissus Stephenson; she had all our ages and she sent mine to me.

"She may be dead now. I could've stayed right there if she isn't dead, because she never did
want me to come away. Right out in Arkansas, I come,--to my sorrow. Well, I done right well
till I got crippled. Got hit by an automobile. That's what I'm doin' here now."

Parents and Relatives

"My father's name was Nathan Greene. I reckon he went by that name, I can't swear to it. I
wasn't with him when he died. I was up in Mississippi on the Mississippi River and didn't get
the news in time to get there till after he was dead. He was an old soldier. When the Yankees
got down in Mississippi, they grabbed up every nigger that was able to fight. If I'd get his
furlough papers, I'd a been drawin' pension before I did. But his brother was with him when
he died and he let the dismiss papers get lost, and nobody got nothin'. Don't draw nothin'
from it at all. Couldn't find the papers when I was down there.

"I don't know whether my father used his master's name or his father's name. His father's name
was Jerry Greene, and his master's name was Henry Bibb. I don't know which name he went by,
but I call myself Greene because his father's name was Jerry Greene. No Bibb owned him at first.
Jerry Greene was born in North, Alabama in Morgan County. That's where he was born. Bibb bought
him and brought him down to Mississippi where I was born. Lord! Old Man Bibb owned a lot of
'em, too. My father and grandfather were both colored but my grandfather was an old yellow
man. You know, he had to take his color after his papa. I don't know my great-grandfather's
name. They can't tell nothin' 'bout that in them days. His papa, my grandfather's papa, I can't
tell for sure whether he was white or black.

"My mother's name was Adeline Greene. Grandpa's wife's name was Louisa. She was one of these
kinder mixed with Indian. She lived to see a many a year before she died. She lived to be a
hundred and fifteen years of age before she died. I knowed Grandma Louisa. Up until I was a
man grown. She was about my color with long straight hair and black (hair). Old Lady Bibb was
her mistress. She died way after freedom.

"I don't know mama's age. I was here in Arkansas when she died. Didn't know she was dead until
a month after she was buried. She died in Mississippi. Grandma, mama, and all of them died
in Mississippi.

"My grandma on my mother's side was named--I can't remember her name, but I knowed her. I can't
remember what the old man's name was neither. It's been so long it just went from my memory.
They never told me much neither. Folks didn't talk much to children in those days. I wouldn't
hardly have thought of it now anyway."

House and Furniture

"A old log house was what I was born in,--when I come out from Mississippi that old house was
still standing. Aw, they put up houses them days. It had one room. Didn't have but one room,--one
window, one door,--didn't have but one door to go in and out. I remember that well. Didn't
have no whole parcel of doors to go in and out. Plank floors. I wasn't born on the dirt! I
was born on planks. Our house was up off the ground. We had a board roof. We used four foot
boards. Timber was plentiful then where they could make boards easy. Boards was cheap. There
wasn't no such things as shingles. Didn't have no shingle factories.

"We didn't have nothing but on old wooden bed. It wasn't bought. It was made. Made it at home.
Carpenter made it. Making wooden beds was perfect then. They'd break down every two or three
years. They lasted. There was boards holding then. Wasn't no slats nor nothing. Nail them boards
to the post and to the sides of the house, and that was the end of it with some people. We
had a corded bed. Put them ropes through the sides and corded them up there as tight as Dick's
hatband--and they stayed. They made their own boards, and made their own ropes, and corded
them together, and they stayed. Chairs! Shucks! They just took boxes. They made chairs too--took
shucks and put bottoms in them. Them chairs lasted. Them shucks go way, they'd put more there.
Wish I had one of them chairs now. We made a box and put our rations in it. Them days they
made what they called cupboards. They made anything they wanted to. When they got free, they'd
buy dishes. When they got free, boxes and cupboards went out of style. They bought safes. There
wasn't no other furniture. We used tin pans for dishes in slavery time. When we got free, we
bought plates.

"When them pans fell they didn't break. They even as much as made their own trays to make bread
in. They would take a cypress tree and dig it out and them scoundrels lasted too. Don't see
nothin' like that now. Tin pan is big enough to make up bread in now. In them days they made
anything. Water buckets,--they did buy them. Old master would give 'em a pass to go get 'em.
Anything they wanted, he would give 'em if he thought it necessary. Old master would get 'em
all the buckets. He was good and he would buy what you would ask him for. They made milk buckets.
They made 'em just like they make 'em now."

Work of Family in Slave Time

"My people were all field hands. My master had a great big farm--three or four hundred acres.
I waited table when I was a little chap and I learned to plow before the War was over."

Good Master

"Old Man Bibb was as good and clever a man as ever you knowed. That overseer down there, if
he whipped a man Old Man Bibbs would say, 'Here's your money. Don't want you beating up my
niggers so they can't work. I don't need you.' He'd tell 'im quick he don't need him and he
can git. That's the kind of man he was. Wouldn't let you be mobbed up. He was a good christian
man. I'll give that to him. In the time of the War when they was freeing slaves and I was a
little old eight-year-old kid, there was a little old Dutchman, a Tennessee man, he came out
in the country to get feed. Out there in Alabama.

"I was in Alabama then. The white woman that raised me had taken me there. She had done married
again and left me with mama awhile. While I was little, that was. When I was about seven, she
came and got me again and carried me down in Alabama and raised me with her children. That
white woman never called me nothin' but baby as long as she lived. You know she cared for me
just like I was one of her's. When a person raise a child from a month old she can't help from
loving it.

"This Dutchman come and asked me where my parents was and I told him they was in Mississippi.
He slipped me away from my folks and carried me to Decatur and they got cut off there. He was
a Yankee soldier, and old Forrest's army caught 'em and captured me and then carried me first
nearly to Nashville. They got in three miles of the town and couldn't get no closer. They ran
us so we never got no res' till we got to Booneville, Mississippi. Then I sent word to Bibb
and my uncle came up and got me. Him and Billie Bibb, my young master. Billie Bibb was a soldier
too. He was home on a furlough. I was glad to see him because I tell you in the army there
was suffering. But I'll tell you I'll give them credit, those Tennessee men took care of me
just as though I was their own. I was in a two mule wagon. I drove it. I was big enough to
drive. The ambulance man stopped in Nashville to see his folks and got a furlough and went
on home."

Work

"I learned how to work--work in the field. Wasn't nothing but field work. I learned how to
hoe first. But in Alabama I learned how to plow. I didn't want to be no hoe man; I wanted to
plow. When I went back to Mississippi, they put me on the plow. I was just eight years old
when I learned to plow."

Share cropping

"Right after freedom, I just kept on plowing. We share cropped. My mama and I would take a
crop. She'd work. We'd all work like the devil until I got a job and went to town. She was
willing to let me go. That was when I married too."

How Freedom Came

"All I know about freedom was Old Man Henry Bibb come out and told us we was free. That is
how I came to know it. He came out there on the farm and said, 'Well, you all free as I am.
You can stay here if you want to or you can go somewhere else.' We stayed. Mama stayed there
on the farm plumb till she come to town. I don't know how many years. I was there in town and
so she come onto town later. Moved in with the people she was with. They gave up their place.
I was nineteen years old when I left the country. My mother gave me her consent,--to marry
then, too. She came to town a few years later.

"The slaves weren't given nothin' after they was freed. Nothing but what they worked for. They
got to be share croppers."

Ku Klux Klan

"The Ku Klux never bothered me but they sure bothered others. Way yonder in Mississippi directly
after the surrender, they'd hated it so bad they killed up many of them. They caught white
men there and whipped them and killed them. They killed many a nigger. They caught a white
man there and whipped him and he went on up to Washington, D. C. and came back with a train
load of soldiers. They came right down there in the south end of our town and they carried
them Ku Kluxers away by train loads full. They cleaned out the east side of the river. The
Ku Klux had been stringing up niggers every which way. 'Twasn't nothin' to find a nigger swinging
up in the woods. But those soldiers come from Washington City. If they didn't clean 'em up,
I'll hush.

"I don't know what become of 'em. They never did come back to Aberdeen."

Occupations Followed and Life Since Freedom

"I ain't worked a lick in four or five years. If I lived to see August tenth, I will be eighty-six
years old. I used to follow railroading or saw milling or farming. That is what I followed
when I was able to work. The last work I did was farming, working by the day--a dollar and
a half a day. And they cut it down and cut me down. Now they ain't giving nothing. If a man
gets six bits a day he doing good. Harder times in Arkansas now than I have ever seen before.
If a man is able to take care of his family now, he is doing well. They don't give niggers
nothing now.

"The only way I live is I get a little pension. They give me eight dollars a month and commodities.
That is all I live on now. That keeps me up, thank God. I have been getting the pension about
ever since they started. I reckon it is about two years. I have been receiving it every month.
It ain't failed yet. They been taking care of me pretty well ever since they started. First
start it wasn't nothin' but rations. They give me groceries enough to las' me every month.
I had a wife then.

"I have been a widow now four years. Four years I've been a widow. But there ain't nothin'
like a man staying in his own house. I have made out now for four years. Right there cooking
and washing for George! I didn't have nothing else to do. Fellow can't tell what day the Lord
will say, 'Stop', but as long as I am this way, I'll keep at it.

"This soreness in my leg keeps me in bad shape. I came here to get my leg fixed. It gets so
I can't walk without a stick. I don't like to stay with other folks. They're sinners and they
use me sorta sinful--speak any sort of language. But they sure 'nough treats me nice.

"I got my leg hurt last December. Car ran into me at Wrightsville, and knocked me down and
threw me far as from here to that thing (about fifteen feet). After they flung me down, I was
flat on my back a long while. I couldn't move. When a fellow gets old and then gets crippled
up, it's hard. But I'm gettin' 'long pretty well now, 'cept that this leg ain't strong."

  DEC -- 1937
  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Andrew Gregory
                      Brinkley, Arkansas
  Age: 74

"I was born in Carroll County, Tennessee. My mother was owned by Houston. She said when war
was declared he was at a neighbor's house. He jumped up and said, 'I gonner be the first to
kill a Yankee.' They said in a few minutes he fell back on the bed dead. My father owner was
Tillman Gregory. After freedom he stayed on sharecroppin'. From what he said that wasn't much
better than bein' owned. They had to work or starve. He said they didn't make nobody work but
they didn't keep nobody from starvin' if they didn't go at it. They was proud to be free but
that didn't ease up the working.

"My people stayed on in Tennessee a long time. When I was nineteen years old they was making
up a crowd to come here to work. Said the land was new. I come wid them. It was a big time.
We come on the Hardcash (steamboat). I farmed and cleared land all my life. I sold wood, hauled
wood. I've done all kinds of form work. I get $12 from the Welfare Association.

"The young generation is a puzzle to me. That why I stand and watch what they do. The folks
make the times. It's a puzzle to me too."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Annie Griegg
                      Madison, Arkansas
  Age: 84

"I was born a slave, born in Nashville, Tennessee. I was sold twice. I don't recollect my mother;
I was so small when I was parted from her. I had two sisters and I recollect them. One of my
sisters was sold the same day I was sold and I recollect my other sister was named Rebecca.
I never seen her no more after I was sold. I was the youngest.

"Mother belong to Captain Walker. That was before the Civil War so I know he wasn't an officer
in it. His daughter married a man named Mr. Foster. Captain Walker had give me to his daughter
when she married. They lived in Nashville, Tennessee too. Mr. Foster sold me and Captain Walker
sold my sister Ann and Mr. Bill Steel Henderson at Columbia, Tennessee bought us both and give
my sister to his widowed sister for a house girl and nurse and he kept me.

"They lived close to us and my sister stayed at our house nearly all the time. My sister and
me was sold for the some price, $100 a piece. She could count and knew a dollar. She had some
learning then. I never went to school a day in my life.

"The first block was a big tree and stumps sawed off for steps by the side of it. The big tree
had been sawed off up high. The man cried me off standing on the next stump step. My sister
told me our mother was a cook at Captain Walker's. She told me my father was a Foster. It was
my understanding that he was a white man. My sister was darker than I was. Mr. Foster sold
me for a nurse. Mr. Henderson's sister was name Mrs. McGaha (?). My sister nursed and cooked.
I nursed three children at Mr. Henderson's. He was good to me. I loved the children and they
was crazy about me. He sold me to Mr. Field Mathis. I nursed four children for them. I never
did know why I was sold. Mr. Henderson was heap the best. Mr. Henderson never hit me a lick
in his life.

"Mathis was cruel. He drank all the time. He got mad and stamped my hand. I nearly lost the
use of my hand. It was swollen way up and hurt and stayed riz up till his cousin noticed it.
He was a doctor. He lived in the other end of the house--the same house. He found some bones
was broke loose in my hand (right hand). Dr. Mathis (Dr. Mathis or Dr. Mathews who died at
Forrest City, Arkansas) set his brother out about treating little nurse thater way. Told him
he oughter be ashamed of hisself. Dr. Mathis splintered my hand and doctored it till it got well.

"Mr. Field Mathis was a merchant. They moved to Colt, Arkansas at the beginning of the War,
Dr. and Mr. Field Mathis both. We come on the train and steamboats. It was so new to me I had
a fine time but that is all I can tell about it. Mr. Field was cross with his wife. She was
fairly good to me. I had all the cooking, washing and ironing to do before I left there.

"After we come to Arkansas I never got to see my sister. My husband was a good scholar. He
could write. He wrote and wrote back to find my sister and mother but they never answered my
letters. I asked everybody that come from there about my sisters and mother but never have
heard a word. I slept on a pallet on the floor nearly all my life. I had a little bed at Mr.
Henderson's.

"I didn't know it was freedom till one day when I was about fourteen or fifteen years old--judging
from my size and what I done. I went off to a spring to wash. I had one pot of clothes to boil
and another just out of the pot to rub and rinse. A girl come to tell me Mrs. Field had company
and wanted me to come cook dinner. I didn't go but I told her I would be on and cook dinner
soon as I could turn loose the washing. There was two colored girls and a white girl could
done the cooking but I was a good cook. The girl put on the water for me to scald the chickens
soon as she went to the house. When I got there Mrs. Field Mathis had a handful of switches
corded together to beat me. I picked up the pan of boiling water to scald the chickens in.
She got scared of me, told me to put the pan down. I didn't do it. I didn't aim to hurt her.
I wouldn't throwed that boiling water on nothing. She sent to the store for her husband. He
come and I told him how it was about the clothes and three girls there could cook without me.
He got mad at her and said: 'Mary Agnes, she is as free as you are or I am. I'm not going to
ever hurt her again and you better not.' That is the first I ever heard about freedom. It had
been freedom a long time. I don't know how long then.

"I stayed on, washed out the clothes and strung them up that evening. I ironed all the clothes
and cooked the rest of the week. Mr. Field got me a good home with some colored folks. He told
me if I would go there he never would let nobody bother me and he never would mistreat me no
more. I worked some for them but they paid me. She ought to thought a heap of me the way I
cooked and worked for her. That was my freedom. I was sold on a platform to Mr. Mathis.

"After freedom I done field work. I never seen a Ku Klux in my life. I cooked out some and
I married. I still cooked out. I was married once and married in a church. I have seven children
living and seven dead.

"I live with my daughter and her family and I get $6 and commodities. I'm mighty thankful for
that. It helps me a whole lots.

"I recken young folks do the best they know to do. Seems like folks are kinder hearted than
they used to be. Times have changed a heap every way. Times is harder for poor folks than the
others. It is a true saying that poor folks have hard ways and rich folks have mean ways. They
are more selfish. I always had to work hard. Both times I was sold for $100."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Persons interviewed: William and Charlotte Guess
                       West Memphis, Arkansas
  Ages: 68 and 66

William Guess

"I was born in Monroe County, Arkansas. Father come from Dallas, Texas when a young man before
he married. Him and two other men was shipped in a box to Indian Bay. I've heard him and Ike
Jimmerson laugh how they got bumped and bruised, hungry and thirsty in the box. I forgot the
name of the other man in the box. They was sent on a boat and changed boats where they got
tumbled up so bad. It was in slavery or war times one. White folks nailed them up and opened
them up too I think. Father was born in Dallas, Texas. Mother was a small woman and come from
Tennessee. Billy Boyce in Monroe County owned her. That is the most I ever heard my folks tell
about the Civil War."

Charlotte Guess

"Mother was born in Dallas, Texas. She was born into slavery. She was a field woman. She was
sold there and brought to Mississippi at about the close of the Civil War. She was sold from
her husband and two children. She never seen them. She farmed cotton and corn in Texas. Her
husband whooped her, so she was glad to be sold. She married after the surrender to another
man in Mississippi. No, he didn't beat her. They had disputes. She was the mother of ten children.
She lived to be 82 years old. She went from Arkansas back to Mississippi to die."

INTERVIEWER'S NOTE

It would be interesting if I could find out more about why the Negroes were sent in the box.
He seemed not to know all about it. This Negro man when young was a light mulatto. He is light
for his age. He looks and acts white. Has a spot on one eye.

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Lee Guidon
                      Clarendon, Arkansas
  Age: 89

"Yes maam I sho was in the Cibil War. I plowed all day and me and my sister helped take care
of the baby at night. It would cry and me bumpin' it. [In a straight chair, rocking.] Time
I git it to the bed where its mama was it wake up and start cryin' all over again. I be so
sleepy. It was a puny sort o' baby. Its papa was off at war. His name was Jim Cowan an' his
wife Miss Margaret Brown 'fore she married him. Miss Lucy Smith give me and my sister to them.
Then she married Mr. Abe Moore. Jim Smith was Miss Lucy's boy. He lay outen the woods all time.
He say no needen him gittin' shot up and killed. He say let the slaves be free. We lived, seemed
lack, on 'bout the line of York an' Union Counties. He lay out in the woods over in York County.
Mr. Jim say all they fightin' 'bout was jealousy. They caught him several times but ebry time
he got away frum 'em. After they come home Mr. Jim say they never win no war. They stole and
starved out the South.

"They didn't want the slaves talkin' 'bout things. One time I got ruffed up and I say I was
goin' to freedom--the wood whar Mr. Jim be--and I recollect we was crossin' over a railin'
fence. My ma put her hand over my mouth like dis, and say you don't know anything 'bout what
you sain' boy.

"I neber will forgit Mr. Neel. He was all our overseer. He say 'Lee Good Boy' plows so good.
He never spoke an unkind word in his life to me. When I haf to go to his house he call me in
an' give me hot biscuits or maybe a potato. I sure love potato [sweet potatoes]. He was a good
old Christian man. The church we all went to was made outer hand hewd logs--great big things.
My pa lived in Union County on the other side the church.

"He lived to be 103 years old. Ma lost her mind. They both died right here with me--a piece
outer town. He was named Pompey and ma Fannie. Her name 'foe freedom was Fannie Smith, then
she took the name Guidon.

"After freedom a heap of people say they was going to name their selves over. They named their
selves big names then went roaming 'round lack wild, huntin' cities. They changed up so it
was hard to tell who or whar anybody was. Heap of 'em died an' you didn't know when you hear
'bout it if he was your folks hardly. Some of the names was Abraham an' some called their selves
Lincum. Any big name 'ceptin' their master's name. It was the fashion. I herd 'em talking 'bout
it one ebenin' an' my pa say fine folks raise us an' we goiner hold to our own names. That
settled it wid all of us.

"Ma was a sickly woman all her life. They kept her 'round the house to help cook and sweep
the yards. Not a speck of grass, not a weed growd on her yard. She swep it 'bout two times
a week. It was prutty and white. The sand jes' shined in the sun. Had tall trees in the yard.

"I can't recollect 'bout my papa's master cause I was raised at my mama's master's place. He
said many and many a time Joe Guidon never had to whoop him. After he growd up he never got
no whoopins a tall. Joe Guidon learned him to plow an' he was boss of the plow hands. His wife
was named Mariah Guidon. He say she was a mighty good easy woman too.

"Saturday was ration day and Sunday visitin' day. But you must have your pass if you leave
the farm an' go over to somebody elses farm.

"When I was a boy one thing I love to do was go to stingy Tom's still house. His name was Tom
Whiteside. He sure was stingy and the meanest white man I ever seed. I went to the still house
to beat peaches to make brandy. It was four miles over there and I rode. We always made least
one barrel of peach brandy and one of cider. That would be vinegar 'nough by spring. 'Simmon
beer was good in the cole freezin' wether too. We make much as we have barrels if we could
get the persimmons. He had a son name Bill Whitesides.

"Once an old slave woman lost her mind. Stingy Tom sent her to get a Bull tongue and she chased
after one of the bulls down at the lot try in' to catch it. She set his barn fire and burned
thirteen head of horses and mules together. Stingy Tom had the sheriff try to get her tell
what white folks put her up to do it. He knowed they all hated him cause he jes' so mean. The
old woman never did tell but they hung her anyhow. There was a big crowd to see it. Miss Lucy
jes' cried and cried. She say Satan got no use for Stingy Tom he so mean. That the first person
I ever seed hung. They used to hang folks a heap. The biggest crowds turned out to see it.

"The old woman's son he went to the woods he so hurt cause they going to hang his ma.

"The Missouri soldiers were worse than the Yankees. They waste an' steal your corn and take
your horses. They brought a little girl they stole and let Stingy Tom have her. He kept her
and treated her so mean. They thrash out wheat and put it on big heavy sheets to dry. The little
girl had to sit outen the sun an' keep the chickens offen it. I seed him find her 'sleep and
hit hard as he could in the face wid big old brush. It was old dogwood brush wid no leaves
on it. He wouldn't let that little girl have no biskit on Sunday mornin'. Everybody had all
the hot biskit they could eat on Sunday mornin'. Well after freedom, long time, her aunt heard
she was down there and come an' got her. She grow up to be a nice woman. Them same Missouri
soldiers took Henry Guidon (younger brother of Lee Guidon) off. Stole him from the master--stole
his mule. They was so mean. They found out when they shoot, the mule so scared it would throw
Henry. They kept it up and laughed. Course it hurt Henry. Liable to kill him. They say they
making a Yankee soldier outen him that way. One night before they got too fur gone he rode
off home. They burn whole cribs corn. Could smell it a long ways off. They was mean to eberybody.

"I recken I do know 'bout the Ku Kluck. I knowed a man named Alfred Owens. He seemed all right
but he was a Republican. He said he was not afraid. He run a tan yard and kept a heap of guns
in a big room. They all loaded. He married a southern woman. Her husband either died or was
killed. She had a son living wid them. The Ku Kluck was called Upper League. They get this
boy to unload all the guns (16 shooters). Then the white men went there. The white man give
up and said, 'I ain't got no gun to defend myself wid. The guns all unloaded an' I ain't got
no powder and shot.' But the Ku Kluck shot in the houses and shot him up like lace work. He
sold fine harness, saddles, bridles--all sorts of leather things. The Ku Kluck shure run them
outen their country. They say they not going to have them 'round and they shure run them out,
back where they came from.

"Charles Good had a blacksmith. They [the Missouri soldiers] opened a fence gap when they came
through. They took him, tied him to a tree and shot him in the face with little shot. He suffered
there till Wednesday when he was still living. They tied him to the tree wid his own gallowses.
They was doubled and strong. Then some of them went down there and finished up the job beating
him over the head with the guns till he was dead. The Ku Kluck broke up every gun they could
find. They sure better not ketch a gun at the quarters of colored folks. They whoop him and
break up the gun. Ask him where he got that gun and start more bad trouble.

"They packed a two-story jail so full of men they had orders to turn 'em out. Then they built
a high fence 'bout eight foot tall and put 'em in it. They had lights and guards all 'round
it. They kept 'em right out in the hot sun in that pen. That's where the Yankees put the Ku
Klucks. Then they had trials and some was sent to Albany for three years and eight years and
the like. They made glass at Albany. Them Yankees wouldn't let 'em have no bonds. Then the
white folks told them they needn't settle among them. They owned all the land and wouldn't
sell them a foot for nuthing. A heap of lawyers and doctors got in it. That fence was iron
and bob wire. The Ku Kluck killed good men, but Republicans.

"We stayed on like we were 'cause we done put in the crop and the Ku Kluck never did bother
us. We made a prutty good crop. Then we took our freedom. Started workin' fer money and part
of the crop.

"I married in 1871. Me and Emma went to bed. Somebody lam on the door. Emma say 'You run they
won't hurt me.' I say 'They kill me sure.' We stayed and opened the door. They pull the cover
offen her looking. They lifted up a cloth from over a barrel behind the bed in the corner.
I say that are a hog. He say we right from hell we ain't seen no meat. Then they soon gone.
The moon shining so bright that night. They were lookin' for my wife's brother I heard 'em
say. They say he done something or another.

"Charleston was the nearest a army ever come to me but I seed a heap of soldiers on the roads.
One road was the Rock Hill road.

"One man I heard 'em talk cheap about had the guns and powder. They shot holes in the walls.
He climbed up in the fireplace chimney and stood up there close to the brick. It was dark and
they couldn't see him. They looked up the chimney but didn't see him. It was a two-story chimney.
Lady if you ain't never seen one I can't tell you just how it was. But they shot the house
full of holes and never harmed him.

"For them what stayed on like they were Reconstruction times 'bout like times before dat 'ceptin'
the Yankees stole out an' tore up a scanlus heap. They tell the black folks to do something
and then come white folks you live wid and say Ku Kluck whoop you. They say leave and white
folks say better not listen to them old Yankees. They'll git you too fur off to come back and
you freeze. They done give you all the use they got fer you. How they do? All sorts of ways.
Some stayed at their cabins glad to have one to live in an' farmed on. Some runnin' 'round
beggin', some hunting work for money an' nobody had no money 'ceptin' the Yankees and they
had no homes or land and mighty little work fer you to do. No work to live on. Some goin' every
day to the city. That winter I heard 'bout them starving and freezing by the wagon loads.

"I never heard nuthing 'bout votin' till freedom. I don't think I ever voted till I come to
Mississippi. I votes Republican. That's the party of my color and I stick to them long as they
do right. I don't dabble in white folk's buzness an' that white folks votin' is their buzness.
If I vote I go do it and go on home.

"I been plowin' all my life and in the hot days I cuts and saws wood. Then when I gets outer
cotton pickin' I put each boy on a load of wood an' we sell wood. Then we clear land till next
spring. I don't find no time to be loafing. I never missed a year farming till I got the Brights
disease an' it hurt me to do hard work. The last years we got $3 a cord. Farmin' is the best
life there is when you are able.

"I come to Holly Springs in 1850, stopped to visit. I had six children and $90 in money. We
come on the train. My parents done come on from South Carolina to Arkansas. Man say this ain't
no richer land than you come from. I tried it seven years. I drove from there, ferried the
rivers. It took a long time. We made the best crop I ever seed in 1888. I had eight children,
my wife. I cut and hauled wood all winter. I soon had three teams haulin' wood to Clarendon.
Some old men, [white men] mean things! Learned one of my boys to play craps. They done it to
git his money.

"When I owned most I had six head mules and five head horses. I rented 140 acres of land. I
bought this house and some other land about. The anthrax killed nearly all my horses and mules.
I got one big fine mule yet. Its mate died. I lost my house. My son give me one room and he
paying the debt off now. It's hard for colored folks to keep anything. Somebody gets it frum
'em if they don't mind.

"The present times is hard. Timber is scarce. Game is about all gone. Prices higher. Old folks
cannot work. Times is hard for younger folks too. They go to town too much and go to shows.
They going to a tent show now. Circus coming they say. They spending too much money for foolishness.
It's a fast time. Folks too restless. Some of the colored folks work hard as folks ever did.
They spends too much. Some folks is lazy. Always been that way.

"I signed up to the Governmint but they ain't give me nuthin' 'ceptin' powdered milk and rice
what wasn't fit to eat. It cracked up and had black somethin' in it. A lady said she would
give me some shirts that was her husbands. I went to get them but she wasn't home. These heavy
shirts give me heat. They won't give me the pension an' I don't know why. It would help me
buy my salts and pills and the other medicines like Swamp Root. They won't give it to me."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Linley Hadley
                      Madison, Arkansas
  Age: 77

"I was born the very day the Civil War started, April 12, 1861. I was born in Monroe County
close to Aberdeen, Mississippi. My papa was named Dave Collins. He was born far back as 1832.
He was a carriage driver.

"Mama was born same year as papa. She was a field hand and a cook. She could plough good as
any man. She was a guinea woman. She weighed ninety-five pounds. She had fourteen children.
She did that. Had six or seven after freedom. She had one slave husband. Her owners was old
Master Wylie Collins and Mistress Jane. We come 'way from their place in 1866.

"I can recollect old Master Collins calling up all the niggers to his house. He told them they
was free. There was a crowd of them, all mixes. Why all this took place now I don't know. Most
of the niggers took what all they have on their heads and walked off. He told mama to move
up in the loom house, if she go off he would kill her. We moved to the loom house till in 1866.

"One night some of the niggers what had been Collins' slaves come and stole all mama's children,
toted us off on their backs at night. Where we come to cross the river, Uncle George Tunnel
was the ferryman. He had raised mama at his cabin at slavery. He took us to his white folks.
We lived with them a year and then mama moved on Bill Cropton's place and we lived there forty
years. All the Croptons dead now.

"We come to Arkansas in 1891 close to Cotton Plant. 1898, I come to Madison. Been here ever since.

"Grandma belong to Master Rogers where we knowed George Tunnel. Mama, named Harriett, and Aunt
Miller was sold. A man in Texas bought Aunt Miller. We never could hear a word from her. After
freedom we tried and tried. Master Collins was mean. You couldn't lay your hand on mama's back
without laying it on marks where she had been beat. All his niggers was glad to leave him.
They stripped mama's clothes down to her waist and whooped her, beat the blood out with cowhides.
Master Collins 'lowed his niggers to steal, then his girls come take some of it to their house
to eat. Master Collins didn't have no boys.

"Papa was a little chunky man. He'd steal flour and hogs. He could tote a hog on his back.
My papa went on off when freedom come. They was so happy they had no sense. Mama never seen
him no more. I didn't neither. Mama didn't care so much about him. He was her mate give to
her. I didn't worry 'bout him nor nobody then.

"Master Collins did give us plenty to wear and eat too. When I left there we all worked. Mama
married ag'in. We kept on farming. I farmed all my life.

"I got a boy what works. We own our house and all this place (one-half acre). I don't get no
help from nowhere. Seem like them what works and tries ought to be the ones to get help and
not them what don't never pay no taxes. Fast generation it is now. But they don't bother me.
I got a good boy. Times is hard. Everything you have to buy is high."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Anna Hall (mulatto)
                      Brinkley, Arkansas
  Age: 68

"I don't know nuthin' cept what I heard folks talk 'bout when I was a child. I was born good
while after that war. My folks lived in Scott County near Jackson, Mississippi when I was little
and in slavery times too. My mother's mistress was Miss Dolly Cruder. She was a widow and run
her own farm. I don't remember her. She give her own children a cotton patch apiece and give
the women hands a patch about and they had to work it at night. If the moon didn't give light
somebody had to hold a literd (lantern) not fur from 'em so they could see to hoe and work
it out. I think she had more land then hands, what they made was to be about a bale around
for extra money. It took all the day time working in the big field for Miss Dolly. I heard
'em say how tired they would be and then go work out their own patches 'fore they go to bed.
I don't remember how they said the white girls got their cotton patches worked. And that is
about all I remembers good 'nough to tell you.

"They didn't expect nothing but freedom out the war. The first my mother heard she was working
doing something and somebody say, 'What you working fur don't you know you done free?' That
the first she knowed she was free. They just passed the word round; that's how they heard it
and the soldiers started coming in to their families. Some of them come back by themselves
and some come riding several of them together.

"I know they didn't give my mother nothing after the war. She washed and ironed 'bout all her life.

"The young generation is doing better than we old folks is. If there is any work to get they
gets it in preference to us. Education is helping some of 'em here in Brinkley. Some of the
young ones gets good money. They teaches and cooks. Times is hard for some.

"I live wid my son. Yes he own his house. I gets $8 from the relief. We has 'bout 'nough to
live on and dat is all."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Ellie Hamilton (male)
                      Clarendon, Arkansas
  Age:

"I was born about near Holly Springs, Mississippi. My parents' masters' name William and Mary
Ellen Jefferies. I don't know much 'bout them. My parents' name Neely and Amos Hamilton. I
judge that was pa's master's name. They had eight children. Three of us living yet.

"I been farmin' and workin' 'round Clarendon ever since I was a chap. I work 'round hotels
and stores and farm too.

"I votes when we have a leader for our party. It don't do no good. I never seed no good come
outen the colored race votin' yet.

"Some ways times is much better, much better! Some ways they is worser. The people is educated
better'n I had a chance at.

"Work wages is a heap better. I has worked for $7 a month. Now some can get $18 to $20 a week.
But the young generation throwin' it away. They ain't going to save a bit of it. The present
condition is worse morally. They used to could depend on a man. You can't hardly depend on
the younger generation. They is so tricky. Folks going too much. I recollect when I was a child
I went to town one or two times a year. I didn't want all I seen there then neither. Seems
lack folks spends so much money foolishly.

"I own a home, no cow, no hog, no land. Get $10 a month from the PWA. [HW: [WPA?]]

"I come to Arkansas to farm. It is a fine farmin' country, Miss. My father died and left my
mother wid seven children to raise. She come on out here to make a livin'.

"I remember when Tilden and Hendrick lost and Hayes and Wheeler was elected. They sung songs
'bout 'em and said 'Carve that possum nigger to the heart.' It done been so long since we sung
them rally songs I forgot every line of all of them. People used to sing more religious songs
seems like than they do now. They done gone wild over dancin' 'stead of singin'.

"I farmed for J. P. Cherry at Holly Springs from time I was eight year old till I was twenty-one
year old. That's a long time to stay by one man ain't it?"

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Josephine Hamilton
                      Hazen, Arkansas
  Age: 77

"I was born near Houston, Mississippi, in 1860. We lived about three miles north when I can
first recollect. My mistress was named Frankie Hill and my master was Littleton Hill. I had
some sisters and brothers dead but I had four brothers and one sister that got up grown. The
first house I remembers living in was a plank house. Then we lived in a log house wid a stick-and-dirt
chimney. I was wid my old master when he died of heart trouble. She lack to died too. We setting
by de fire one night and he held the lamp on one knee and reading out loud. It was a little
brass lamp with a handle to hook your finger in. He was a Baptist. He had two fine horses,
a big gray one and a bay horse. Joe drove him to preaching. Miss Frankie didn't go. He said
his haid hurt when dey went to eat dinner and he slept all the evening. He et supper and was
reading. I was looking at him. He laid his haid back and started snoring. He had long white
hair. I say 'Miss Frankie, he is dieing.' Cause he turned so pale. He was setting in a high
back straight chair. We got him on the bed. He could walk when we held him up. His brother
was a curious old man. He et morphine a whole heap. He lived by himself. I run fast as my legs
would take me. Soon as I told him he blowed a long horn. They said it was a trumpet. You never
seen such a crowd as come toreckly. The hands come and the neighbors too. It being dot time
er night they knowed something was wrong. He slept awhile but he died that night. I stayed
up there wid Miss Frankie nearly all de time. It was a mile from our cabin across the field.
Joe stayed there some. He fed and curried the horses. Nom I don't remember no slave uprisings.
They had overseers on every farm and a paddyroll. I learned to sew looking at the white folks
and my ma showed me about cutting. There wasn't much fit about them. They were all tollerably
loose. We played hiding behind the trees a heap and played in the moonlight. We played tag.
We picked up scaley barks, chestnuts, and walnuts. Miss Frankie parched big pans of goobers
when it was cold or raining. Some of the white folks was mean. Once young mistress was sick.
She had malaria fever. I was sitting down in the other room. Young master was lying on de bed
in the same room. A woman what was waiting on her brought the baby in to put a cloth on him.
He was bout two months old, little red-headed baby. He was kicking and I got tickled at him.
Young master slapped me. The blood from my nose spouted out and I was jess def for a long time.
He beat me around till Miss Polly come in there and said 'You quit beating that little colored
girl. You oughter be ashamed. Your wife in there nearly dead.' 'Yes maam, she did die.' I never
will forgit Miss Polly. I saved one of the young mistress little girl bout seven or eight years
old. Miss Frankie raised a little deer up grown. It would run at anybody. Didn't belong at
the house. It got so it would run me. It started at the little girl and I pulled her in on
the porch backwards and in a long hall. Her mama show was proud. Said the deer would paw her
to death.

"I remembers everybody shouting and so glad they was free. It was a joyful time. If they paid
my folks for work I didn't know it. We stayed on with Miss Frankie till I was grown and her
son Billy Hill took her to Houston, Texas to live. Miss Sallie and Miss Fannie had been married
a long time. We always had a house to live in and something to eat.

"I show never did vote. I would not know nothing about it. I think the folks is getting wiser
and weaker. Some of us don't have much as we need and them that do have wastes it. I always
lived on the farm till eight years ago when my husband died. I wasn't able to farm by myself.
I didn't have no children. I come to Hazen to live wid dese here girls I raised. (Two girls.)
They show is good to me. No maam I ain't never got no old age pension. They won't give it to
me. We come to Arkansas in 1918. We lived down around Holly Grove. We had kin folks wrote about
out here and we wanted to change. Long as I was able I had a good living but since I been so
feeble I have to make out wid what the children bring me. I don't know if de times is getting
any better, don't seem lack the people training their children a tall. They say they kaint
do nothing wid em. I allus could do something wid dem I raised. I used to look at them and
they minded me. The trouble is they ain't learning to work and won't do nothing less they going
to get big pay. Then they run spend it fast as they can go for fool-bait."

FOLKLORE SUBJECTS

  [HW: Arkansas]
  Little Rock District
  Name of Interviewer: Irene Robertson
  Subject: HERBS--CURES & REMEDIES, ETC.
  Story--Information (If not enough space on this page add page)

If you borrow salt it is bad luck to pay it back.

Parch okra seed grind up or beat it up and make coffee.

Parch meal or corn and make coffee.

In slavery times they took red corn cobs burned them and made white ashes, sifted it and used
it instead of soda.

Beat up charcoal and take for gas on the stomach.

Sift meal add salt and make up with water, put on collard leaf, cover with another collard
leaf put on hot ashes. Cover with hot ashes. The bread will be brown, the collard leaves parched
up, "It is really good." Roast potatoes and eggs in the ashes.

In slavery times they made persimmon beer. Had regular beer barrels made a faucet. Put old
field hay in the bottom, persimmons, baked corn bread and water. Let stand about a week, a
fine drink with tea cakes. It won't make you drunk.

Comb hair after dark makes you forgetful.

Asafoetida and garlic on the bait makes the fish bite well.

Rub fishing worms on the ground makes them tougher so you can put them on the hook.

  This information given by: Josephine Hamilton
  Place of Residence: Hazen, Arkansas
  Occupation: Field work and washwoman.
  AGE:

FOLKLORE SUBJECTS

  Pine Bluff District
  Name of Interviewer: Martin--Pettigrew
  Subject: Negro Customs
  Story--Information (If not enough space on this page add page)

"My mother made three crops after she wuz freed, and I wuz born when she made her third crop,
so I thinks I wuz born 'round 1868. I wuz born in Bolivar County, Mississippi. My mother and
father were slaves and belonged to the Harris family. Only one I 'members is my sister, she
died. My brothers went off and worked on ships, and I never saw them no mo'.

"After freedom, my mother kept working for her marster and misstis, and they paid them for
their work. They stayed on the same plantation until I wuz almost grown.

"At Christmas time, we had heaps to eat, cakes, homemade molasses candy that you pulled, popcorn,
horse apples which wuz good, mo' better'n any apples we get these days.

"The white folks give gifts in the big house and mammy went to the house and the white folks
give her the things to put in we nigger chilluns' stockings.

"We hung up our stockings in our house and up at the white house too. 'Fore Christmas, the
white folks would tell us if we stole chickens, eggs, ducks and things, or go in the apple
orchard, and wuz bad, Santa Claus would not come to us. But if we were good, he would bring
gifts to us. 'Fore Christmas, the white folks would make a Santa Claus out of clothes and stuff
it, put a pack on his back, and stand him up in the road. Colored chillun feared to go near him.

"I have never been arrested, never been in the jail house or calaboose. Went to school when
I could.

"Traveled all over, worked on canal in South America.

"Name of boat I wuz on was the 'Clamshell, No. 4', with Captain Nelson, fum New York."

  This Information given by: Peter Hamilton
  Place of Residence: Near airport--Pine Bluff, Ark.
  Occupation:
  Age: 68

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Lawrence Hampton
                      R.F.D., Forrest City, Arkansas
  Age: 78

"I was born in Orangeburg, South Carolina. My parents' names was Drucilla and Peter Hampton.
She was the mother of twelve children. They both b'long to John D. Kidd and Texas Kidd. To
my knowing they had no children. They was old to me being a child but I don't reckon they be
old folks. They had a plantation, some hilly and some bottom land. He had two or three hundred
slaves. He was a good, good man. He was a good master. He had some white overseers and some
black overseers. Grandpa Peter was one of his overseers. He was proud of his slaves. He was
a proud man.

"We all had preaching clothes to wear. He had his slaves be somebody when they got out of the
field. They went in washing at the fish pond, duck pond too. It was clear and sandy bottom.
Wouldn't be muddy when a lot of them got through washing (bathing). They was black but they
didn't stink sweaty. They wore starched clean ironed clothes. They cooked wheat flour and made
clothes. When the War come on their clothes was ironed and clean but the wheat was scarce and
the clothes got flimsy. John D. Kidd was loved by black and white. He was a good man. Grandpa
George had a son sold over close to Memphis. They had twelve children last letter mama had
from them. I've never seen any one of them.

"Grandpa Peter was a overseer. After he was made overseer he was paid. That was a honor for
being good all his life. When freedom come on he had ten thousand dollars. He was pure African,
black as ace of spades. He give papa and the other four boys five hundred dollars a piece to
start them farms. Papa died when he was sixty-five and grandma was about a hundred. Mama was
seventy-five when she died. Grandpa was eighty-five when he died. They didn't know exactly
but that was about their ages. It was a pretty big honor to be a carriage man. They had young
men hostlers and blacksmiths.

"Freedom--The boys all stayed around and girls too. They bought places about. They never would
charge John D. Kidd for work. They let the girls cook, milk, and set the fowls, long as the
old couple lived. They never took no pay. They go in gangs and chop out his crop and big picnic
dinners all they ever took from him. We all loved that old man.

"They done some whooping on the place but it was a shame. They got over it and went on dressed
up soon as the task was done. Never heard much said about it. I never seen nobody whooped.

"My own folks whooped me. We was free then.

"I heard how easy to farm out in Arkansas. I come to Forrest City in 1884. I was 'bout twenty-five
years old then. It was a mud hole is right. I farmed all my life. We made money.

"My color folks don't know how to take care of their money. They can make money but don't handle
it long.

"I owns a home and twenty acres of land. I want to keep it. Me and my wife live out there.
I had ten children and four of them still living. They all good children and I'm proud to own
they mine.

"John D. Kidd had a lot of his wife's brothers that come visiting. I'd find out they be up
there. Here I'd go. We'd swim, fish, ride, and I'd love to be around them and hear them talk.
That was the kind of good times we had when I was a boy. I missed all that when I come here.
It was sich fine farming land. I couldn't go back to stay. I been back numbers of times visiting.

"I heard of the Ku Klux but I never seen none of them. They was hot over there in South Carolina
in some spots.

"I'm able by the grace of God to make my own humble living. Sometime I may like a little help
but I ain't asked foe none yet.

"I heard this here about the Ku Klux in Forrest City. I heard different ones say. They was
having a revival out here at Lane Chapel and the captain of the Ku Klux come in and they followed
in their white clothes and he give the colored minister a letter. He opened it and it had some
money for him. They went on off on their horses. I don't know when that was. I didn't see it,
I heard about it."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Hannah Hancock
                      [HW: Biscoe, Arkansas?]
  Age: Past 80

"I was born in Chesterfield County, South Carolina. My mother's name was Chloa. We lived on
Hardy Sellers plantation. She was the white folks cook. I et in the white folks kitchen sometimes
and sometimes wid the other children at maw's house. Show my daddy was livin. But he lived
on another man's farms. His master's name was Billy Hancock and his name was Dave. Der was
a big family of us but dey all dead now but three of us. Ize got two sisters and a brother
still livin, I reckon. I ain't seed them in a long time. Mrs. Sellers had several children
but they were all married when I come along and she was a widow. Joe Pete was her son and he
lived close, about a mile across the field, but it was farther around the road. Billy Hancock
married Mrs. Sellers daughter. My mistress didn't do much. Miss Becky Hancock wove cloth for
people. You could get the warp ready and then run in the woof. She made checked dresses and
mingledy looking cloth. They colored the cloth brown and purple mostly. Mrs. Sellers get a
bolt of cloth and have it all made up into dresses for the children. Sometimes all our family
would have a dress alike. Yesm, we did like dot. Granny made de dresses on her fingers. She
was too old to go to de field an she tote water from the big spring and sometimes she water
de hands when dey be hoeing. She would cut and dry apples and peaches. Nobody knowed how to
can. They dried de beef. It show was good. It was jess fine. No maam, Granny didn't have no
patterns. She jess made our dresses lack come in her haid. We didn't get many dresses and we
was proud of em and washed and ironed and took care of em.

"I recollects hearing de men talking about going off to war and em going. No jess de white
men left from Mrs. Sellers place. De children didn't set around and hear all that was said.
They sent us off to play in the play houses. We swept a clean place and marked it off and had
our dolls down there. We put in anything we could get, mostly broken dishes. Yes maam, I had
rag dolls and several of them. No wars real close but I could hear the guns sometimes.

"Mrs. Sellers had two large carriage horses. The colored boys took them down in the bottoms
and took off a lot of the meat and groceries and hid them 'fo the Yankees come along. They
didn't nebber fin them things. Mrs. Sellers was awful good and the men jess looked after her
and took care of her. Me or maw stayed at the house with her all the time, day and night. When
anybody got sick she sent somebody to wait on them and went to see what they needed and sometimes
she had 'em brought up to the house and give 'em the medicine herself. She didn't have no foman.
Uncle Sam and uncle John was the oldest and uncle Henry. They was the men on the farm and they
went right on with the work. Folks had bigger families than they do now. They show did work,
but de field work don't last all de time. They cleared land and fixed up the rail fences in
the winter. A rail fence was on each side of a long lane that led down to the pasture. The
creek run through the pasture. It was show a pretty grove. Had corn shuckings when it was cold.
We played base down there. We always had meat and plenty milk, collards and potatoes. Old missus
would drip a barrel of ashes and make corn hominy in the wash pot nearly every week and we
made all the soap we ever did see. If you banked the sweet potatoes they wouldn't rot and that's
where the seed come from in the spring. In the garden there was an end left to go to seed.
That is the way people had any seed. Times show have changed. I can't tell what to think. They
ain't no more like than if they was another kind of folks. So much different. I jess look and
live. I think they ought to listen to what you say. Say anything to them they say 'Kaint run
my business.' I don't know if they spected anything from freedom. Seemed like they thought
they wouldn't have to work if dey was free and dey wouldn't have no boss. Missus let a lot
of her land grow up in pine trees. Said she had no money to pay people to work for her. Some
of de families staid on. My maw and paw went on a farm on share not far from Mrs. Sellers.
When she was going to have company or she got sick she sent for my maw. My maw washed and ironed
for her till they moved plum off. They said somebody told them it was freedom. When dey picked
up and moved off de missus show didn't give em nothing. They didn't vote. They didn't know
how. I heard a lot about the Ku Klux Klan but I wasn't scared. I never did see none.

"De younger generation jess lives today and don't know what he'll do tomorrow or where he'll
be. I ain't never voted and I don't know if my boys do or not.

"I never heard of uprisings. De paddyroll was to see after dot and Mrs. Sellers didn't have
none. Uncle Sam and uncle John made em mind.

"Sing--I say dey did sing. Sing about the cooking and about the milking and sing in de field.

"I never did see nobody sold. But I heard them talk about selling em. They took em off to sell
em. That was the worst part about slavery. The families was broke up. I never lived nowhere
'cept in South Carolina and Prairie County (Arkansas). My folks come here and they kept writing
for me to come, and I come on the train. Mrs. Sellers son, Joe Sellers, killed himself, shot
himself, one Sunday evening. Didn't know how come he done it. I was too little to know what
they expected from the war. The colored folks didn't have nothing to do with it 'cept they
expected to get freed. A heap of people went to the cities, some of them died. After freedom
things got pretty scarce to eat and there was no money. I worked as a house girl, tended to
the children, brushed the flies off the table and the baby when it slept and swept the house
and the yard too. After I come here (to Arkansas) I married and I worked on the farms. We share
cropped. I raised my children, had chickens, geese, a cow and hogs. When the cotton was sold
we got some of it. Yes maam, I show had rether be out there if I could jess work. We lived
on Mr. Dick Small's place till he sold out. We come to town a year and went back and made enough
in one year to buy dis place. It cost $300. Jess my two sons and me. The others were married.
My husband died on the farm. I come in town and done one or two washings a week. Yes maam I
walked here and back. That kept me in a little money. It was about two miles. I washed for
Mr. L. Hall and part of the time for Mrs. Kate Hazen. I guess they treated us right about the
crop settlement. We thought they did. We knowed how much was made and how much we got. The
cheatin come at the stores where the trading was done.

"I lives with my son and his wife. Sometimes I do my cooking and sometimes I eat in there.
I get $8.00 from the RFC and prunes, rice, and a little dried milk. I buys my meal and sugar
and lard and little groceries with the money. It don't buy what I used to have on the farm.

"I don't remember much about the war. I was so little. I heard them talk a lot about it and
the way they killed folks. I thought it was awful. My hardest time is since I got old and can't
work."

FOLKLORE SUBJECTS

  Little Rock District
  Name of Interviewer: Irene Robertson
  Subject: Spells--Voodoo--
  Story--Information (If not enough space on this page add page)

I asked her if she believed anyone could harm her and she said not not unless they could get
her to eat or drink something. Then they might. She said a Gypsy was feeling her and slipped
a dollar and a quarter tied up in her handkerchief from her and she never did know when or
how she got it. Said she never believed their tales or had her fortune told. She didn't believe
anyone could put anything under the door and because you walked over it you would get a "spell".
She said some people did. She didn't know what they put under the doors. She never was conjured
that she knew of and she doesn't believe in it. Said she had to work too hard to tell tales
to her children but she used to sing. She can't remember the songs she sang. She can't read
or write.

The old woman is blind and gray, wears a cap. Her Mistress was Mrs. Mary and her Master was
Mr. Hardy Sellers in Chesterfield County, South Carolina. Her husband died and left her with
six children. Her brother came with a lot of other fellows to Arkansas. "Everybody was coming
either here or to Texas". Mr. David Gates at DeValls Bluff sent her a ticket to come to his
farm. Her brother was working for Mr. Gates Wattensaw plantation and that is where she has
been till a few years ago she moved to Hazen and lives with her son and his wife. She remembered
when the Civil War soldiers took all their food, mules and hitched Mrs. Sellers driving horses
to the surry and drove off. Her Mistress cried and cried. She said she had a hard time after
she left Mr. and Mrs. Sellers, they was sure good to them and always had more than she had
ever had since. She wanted to go back to South Carolina to see the ones she left but never
did have the money. Said they lived on Mr. Dick Small's place and he was so good to her and
her children but he is dead too now.

  This information given by: Hannah Hancock
  Place of Residence: Hazen, Arkansas
  Occupation: Work in the cotton field--Cook and wash.
  Age: 90
  She is blind. She gets $8.00 pension, she is proud to tell.

  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: Julia E. Haney
                      1320 Pulaski Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: 78

"I was born in Gallatin, Tennessee, twenty-six miles north of Nashville, September 18, 1859.
Willard Blue and Mary Blue were my master and my mistress.

"I wanted to put in for a pension and didn't want to tell a story about my age. In reading
the Gazette, I found out that William Blue got shot by an insurance man in Dallas, Texas over
a stenographer. I found out where my young master was and after allowing him time to get over
his grief, I wrote to him about my age. He wrote me that Andrew was the oldest and he didn't
know, so he sent my letter to Tacoma, Tennessee, to Henry Blue. Henry wrote to him and told
him to look in the bottom of the wardrobe in the old family Bible. He looked there and found
the Bible and sent my age to me. They wrote to me and sent me some money and were awful nice
to me. They said that I was the only one of the slaves living."

Good Masters

"Our masters were awful good to us. They didn't treat us like we were slaves. My mother carried
the keys to everything on the place. They lived in the city. They didn't live in the country.
I came here in 1869."

Family

"My mother married a Thompson. Her married name was Margaret Thompson and her name before she
married was Margaret Berth. Her master before she married was Berth. Her last master was Blue.
Her mother's name was Cordelia Lowe. Her maiden name was Berth. When the old man Berth died,
he made his will and Bullard Berth didn't want any slaves because he wanted to train his children
to work. Willard, my mother's master, should have been a Berth because he was old man Berth's
son, but he called himself Blue. It might have been that old man Berth was his stepfather.
Anyway he went by the name of Willard Blue. He was an undertaker.

"My father's name was Oliver Thompson. I don't remember any of my father's people. His people
were in Nashville, Tennessee, and my mother's people were in Gallatin, Tennessee. We were separated
in slavery."

Separation of Parents

"I don't know how my mother and father happened to get together. They didn't belong to the
same master. My father belonged to Thompson and lived in Nashville and my mother belonged to
Blue in Gallatin. They were not together when freedom came and never did get together after
freedom. They only had one child to my knowledge. I don't know how they happened to be separated.
It was when I was too small. Nashville is twenty-six miles from Gallatin. Perhaps one family
or the other moved away."

Patrollers

"I have heard my mother speak about the pateroles. I don't know whether they were pateroles
or not. They had guards out to see if the slaves had passes and they would stop them when they
would be going out for anything. They would stop my mother when she would be going out to get
the cows to see if she had a pass."

Jayhawkers

"I never heard my mother speak of jayhawkers, but I have heard her say that they used to catch
the slaves when they were out. I don't know whether it was jayhawkers or not. I don't know
what they done with them after they caught them. I have heard other people speak of jayhawkers.
My people were very good to us. They never bothered my mother. She could go and come when she
pleased and they would give her a pass any time she told them she wanted one."

Really Scared to Death

"I know one thing my ma told me. When the soldiers came through, there was an old rebel eating
breakfast at our place. He was a man that used to handcuff slaves and carry them off and sell
them. He must have stolen them. When he heard that the Yankees were marching into town with
all them bayonets shining, it scared him to death. He sat right there at the breakfast table
and died. I don't know his name, but he lived in Tennessee."

Mother's Work

"My mother was a cook and she knitted. She molded candles and milked the cows, and washed and
ironed. She and her children were the only slaves they owned. They never whipped my mother
at all. I stayed in the house. They kept me there. I never had to do anything but keep the
flies off the table when they were eating."

Schooling

"My grandfather gave me my schooling after I came here. I had come here in 1869. I went to
school in Capitol Hill and Union Schools. Mrs. Hoover (white) was one of the teachers at Union
School when I was there. She was a good teacher. Miss Lottie Andrews--she is a Stephens now--was
another one of my teachers."

How Freedom Came

"My master came right on the back porch and called my mother out and told her she was free,
that he wasn't going in no war. That was at the beginning when they were mustering in the soldiers
to fight the War. And he didn't go neither. She stayed with him till after emancipation. She
was as free as she could be and he treated her as nice as anybody could be treated. She had
the keys to everything."

House, Furniture, and Food

"My mother had a little house back in the yard joined to the back porch and connected with
the kitchen. It had one room. She did all cooking in his kitchen. Her room was just a bedroom.

"The furniture was a bed with high posters. It didn't have slats, it had ropes. It was a corded
bed. They had boxes for everything else--for bureaus, chairs, and things."

Further Details about Schooling

"I went to school as far as the eighth grade. Professor Hale, Professor Mason, and Professor
Kimball were some of the teachers that taught me. They all said I was one of the brightest
scholars they had."

Later Life

"I married Cado Haney in 1882. He is dead now. He's been dead nearly forty years. We didn't
live together but fifteen years before he died. We never had no children. After he died I laundried
for a living until I got too old to work. Now I get old age assistance."

Interviewer's Comment

A mighty sweet old lady to talk to.

  Interviewer: Pernella M. Anderson
  Person interviewed: Rachel Hankins
                      El Dorado, Arkansas
  Age: 88

"I was born in Alabama. My old mistress and master told me that I was born in 1850. Get that
good--1850! That makes me about 88 but I can't member the day and month. I was a girl about
twelve or fourteen years old when the old darkies was set free. My old mistress and master
did not call us niggers; they called us darkies. I can't recollect much about slavery and I
can recollect lots too at times. My mind goes and comes. I tell you children you all is living
a white life nowdays. When I was coming up I was sold to a family in Alabama by the name of
Columbus. They was poor people and they did not own but a few slaves and it was a large family
of them and that made us have to work hard. We lived down in the field in a long house. We
ladies and girls lived in a log cabin together. Our cabin had a stove room made on the back
and it was made of clay and grass with a hearth made in it and we cooked on the hearth. We
got our food from old mistress's and master's house. We raised plenty of grub such as peas,
greens, potatoes. But our potatoes wasn't like the potatoes is now. They was white and when
you eat them they would choke you, especially if they was cold. And sorghum molasses was the
only kind there was. I don't know where all these different kinds of molasses come from.

"They issued our grub out to us to cook. They had cows and we got milk sometimes but no butter.
They had chickens and eggs but we did not. We raised cotton, sold part and kept enough to make
our clothes out of. Raised corn. And there wasn't no grist mills then so we had a pounding
rock to pound the corn on and we pound and pound until we got the corn fine enough to make
meal, then we separated the husk from the meal and parched the husk real brown and we used
it for coffee. We used brown sugar from sorghum molasses. We spun all our thread and wove it
into cloth with a hand loom. The reason we called that cloth home-spun is because it was spun
at home. Splitting rails and making rail fences was all the go. Wasn't no wire fences. Nothing
but rail fences. Bushing and clearing was our winter jobs. You see how rough my hands is? Lord
have mercy! child, I have worked in my life.

"Master Columbus would call us niggers up on Sunday evening and read the Bible to us and tell
us how to do and he taught us one song to sing and it was this 'Keep Your Lamp Trimmed and
Burning' and he'd have us to sing it every Sunday evening and he told us that that song meant
to do good and let each other see our good. When it rained we did not have meeting but when
it was dry we always had meeting.

"I never went to school a day in my life. I learned to count money after I was grown and married.

"My feet never saw a shoe until I was fourteen. I went barefooted in ice and snow. They was
tough. I did not feel the cold. I never had a cold when I was young. If we had ep-p-zu-dit
we used different things to make tea out of, such as shucks, cow chips, hog hoofs, cow hoofs.
Ep-p-zu-dit then is what people call flu now.

"When war broke out I was a girl just so big. All I can recollect is seeing the soldiers march
and I recollect them having on blue and gray jackets. Some would ride and some would walk and
when they all got lined up that was a pretty sight. They would keep step with the music. The
Southern soldiers' song was 'Look Away Down in Dixie' and the Northern soldiers' song was 'Yankee
Doodle Dandy.' So one day after coming in from the field old master called his slaves and told
us we was free and told us we could go or stay. If we stayed he would pay us to work. We did
not have nothing to go on so we stayed and he paid us. Every 19th of June he would let us clean
off a place and fix a platform and have dancing and eating out there in the field. The 19th
of June 1865 is the day we thought we was freed but they tell me now that we was freed in January
1865 but we did not know it until June 19, 1865. Never got a beating the whole time I was a slave.

"I came to north Arkansas forty years ago and I been in Union County a short while. My name
is Rachel Hankins."

  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Mary Jane Hardridge
                      1501 West Barraque St., Pine Bluff, Ark.
  Age: 85

"Oh don't ask me that, honey. Yes, I was here in slavery days. I reckon I was here before the
Civil War; I was born in '58. I'm right now in my birth county about four miles from this city.

"I can remember my young masters that went to war. One was named Ben and one Chris. Old master's
name was James Scull. He was kinda mixed up--he wasn't the cruelest one in the world. I've
heard of some that was worse than he was. I never suffered for nothin' to eat.

"I can tell you about myself as far back as I can remember. I know I was about thirteen or
fourteen when the war ended.

"My father's birth home was in Virginia. His name was Flem Price and his father was a doctor
and a white man. Mother's name was Mary Price and she was half Indian. You can tell that by
looking at her picture. She was born in Arkansas.

"I can remember seeing the soldiers. I had to knit socks for them. Used to have to knit a pair
a week. Yes ma'm I used to serve them. I had it to do or get a whippin'. I nursed and I sewed
a little. My mother was a great seamstress. We did it by hand too. They didn't have no sewing
machines in them times.

"When my white folks went on summer vacations--they was rich and traveled a great deal--mama
always went along and she just left us children on the plantation just like a cow would leave
a calf. She'd hate to do it though. I remember she went off one time and stayed three months
and left me sick in the white folks house on a pallet. I know I just hollered and cried and
mama cried too. There was another old colored lady there and she took me to her house. We lived
right on the river where the boat landed and I remember the boat left at high noon and I cried
all the rest of the afternoon.

"I remember the first Yankee I ever saw. They called him Captain Hogan. I had a white chile
in my arms. He set there and asked the boss how many Negroes did he have and the boss said
what was the news. He come out to let the Negroes know they was as free as he was and told
Marse Jim to bring all of them back from Texas. I know I run and told mama and she said 'You
better hush, you'll get a whippin'.'

"They sho didn't burn up nothin'--Just took the mules and horses. Now I remember that--they
didn't burn up nothin' where I lived.

"I heard of the Ku Klux but I never seen any. We was expectin' 'em though at all times.

"My grandmother belonged to Creed Taylor and after freedom mama got her and she lived there
with the Sculls two years. My mother and father was paid a salary and they paid me too--four
dollars a month. And I remember mama never would let me have it--just give me what she wanted
me to have. They treated us better than they did before the war. Cose they was a little rough,
but they couldn't whip you like they did. They could threaten it though.

"I went to school just a little after freedom. Mama and papa wasn't able to send me. Wasn't
no colored teachers competent to teach then and we had to pay the white teacher a dollar a month.

"I had very strict parents and was made to mind. When I went out I knew when I was comin' in.
I had one daughter who died when she was eight years old and if I could bring her back now,
I wouldn't do it cause I know she would worry me to death.

"I used to sew a lot for people in Pine Bluff but I am too old now. I own my home and I have
some rooms rented to three young men students and I get a little help from the Welfare so I
manage to get along.

"Well good-bye--I'm glad you come." My sister was sick about a year once. They said she had
the T. B. (tuberculosis). One day I was there and she said, 'Sis, do you hear that peckerwood?
He's drivin' a nail in my coffin.' And sure enough she died not long after.

"But let me tell you I had a peculiar dream yesterday morning just before day. There's a little
child here. His mother died and left him, the baby child. I dreamt his mother brought him to
me. She said, 'I brought my boy here and I want you to keep him.' I thought he come to me just
as naked as he could be. He kept sayin', 'Come on, Mrs. Hardrige, and let's go home, I'm cold.'
He didn't have a garment on. His mother was with him and she's dead you know.

"I mentioned it to one of my neighbors and she said it was a sign of some woman's death.

"I was very much devoted to the child. I love him, and that dream stayed with me all day. I
don't know but I've always heard if you dream of the dead it's goin' to rain.

"I ain't four miles from where I was born. I was born across the river. We belonged to Jim
Scull. I've lived all my life in Jefferson County."

  Interviewer: Pernella Anderson
  Person Interviewed: O. C. Hardy
                      El Dorado, Ark.
  Age: 69

"O. C. Hardy is my name and I is 69 years old. I like [HW: lack? KWF] a lot of being a real
old time slave, but I tell you I am a slave now, and ain't no 1800 slave. I was born way down
in Louisiana. We lived on a plantation with some white people by the name of Chick Johnson.
That is the first place I remember we ever stayin' on. My ma and pa slave for them folks. All
of the children worked like slaves. What I mean by working like slaves--we didn't stop to get
our breath until night. I was slavin' for just the white folks then and since I got grown and
married I've been slavin' for my wife and children and the white folks. My mama and papa went
in the name of their mistress and master's name and so did I, so we was all Hardys.

"Sixty-nine years ago the time wasn't like it is now. Everything was different. There was no
cars, no airplanes, a few buggies, no trains. The go was ox teams and stage coaches. People
used ox teams in place of mule and horse teams. Sometimes you would see ox teams with twelve
and fourteen oxen. The ox wore yokes that sometime weigh a hundred or more pounds. The reason
of that, they were so mean they had to wear them yokes to hold em down. One yoke would go across
two oxen's heads. They could pull--oh my!--as much as some big trucks. We made much better
crops back in the 1800s than we do now. The winters was much harder and you know the harder
the winter the better the crop year you have. We always plowed and turned our ground over in
the hard of winter--that was in order for the cold to kill all insect and germs in the ground.
You see, worms eats up your seed and plant, and germs do your seed and plant just like they
would do your body. So we got rid of them little hinderings. In January we was ready to get
our corn ground ready for planting, and man! we raised some crops. I recollect one year way
back yonder we had what they called a centennial snow--that was the biggest snow that's ever
been and the best crop year I ever knowed. I started plowing when I was about eight. Before
then all I can remember doin' was bushing. After gathering crops we split rails and built fences.
We played on Sunday evening. Our sport was huntin', fishin', and bird thrashin' and trap settin'.
To catch fish easy we baited snuff and tobacco on the hook. We used to be bad about stealin'
watermelons, eggs, chickens and sweet potatoes and slippin' way down in the woods and cookin'.

"Wasn't no such things as screen windows and doors. That is some of this 1900 stuff to my knowing.
Flies and mosquitos was plentiful. Our cooking was plain boiled or fried cause we cooked on
fireplaces. Wasn't no stoves. We used all brown sugar from syrup that turned to sugar. White
sugar is about forty years old to my knowings. My ma used to cook the best old syrup cake and
syrup potatoes pudding. She knitted all our socks and sweaters for you couldn't buy things
like that because stores was few and she spun and wove for the white folks and knitted too."

  #658
  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Rosa Hardy
                      Biscoe, Arkansas
  Age: ?

"I was born in Brownsville, Tennessee. My mother died when I was real young, and I had no father.
Pike Sutton was mother's master. He was my old grandfather. He owned a big farm. Tove Sutton
was his son and my father. Mother was light but not as light as I am. I had a sister older
than I am I lived with. I never lived among white folks except in a town with them. I don't
know a thing about my people to tell. I don't know my age. I give myself a birthday. I don't
know the day nor month I was born. But I'm old. I can count back enough to tell that.

"I work in the sewing room. I'm the oldest woman in there at De Valls Bluff. I get twenty-one
dollars and this month I am to get twenty-seven.

"If you don't have work times are not good. I know that. I don't hardly know the young generation.
Of course I see them but that is all. They hurrying their way and I'm going my way."

  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Ida Harper
                      819 West Pullen Street; Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 93

"Now what you want with me? I was born in Mississippi. I come here tollable young. I'se ninety-three
now.

"My old master mean to us. We used to watch for him to come in the big gate, then we run and
hide. He used to come to the quarters and make us chillun sing. He make us sing Dixie. Sometimes
he make us sing half a day. Seems like Dixie his main song. I tell you I don't like it now.
But have mercy! He make us sing it. Seems like all the white folks like Dixie. I'se glad when
he went away to war.

"But they used to feed you. Heap better meat than you get now. I tell you they had things to
eat in them days.

"I 'member when the soldiers was comin' through and runnin' the white folks both ways. Law
chile--you don't know nothin'! We used to hide in the cistern. One time when the Yankees come
in a rush my brother and me hide in the feather bed.

"When the war ended, white man come to the field and tell my mother-in-law she free as he is.
She dropped her hoe and danced up to the turn road and danced right up into old master's parlor.
She went so fast a bird could a sot on her dress tail. That was in June. That night she sent
and got all the neighbors and they danced all night long.

"I never went to school a day in my life. I wish I could read but they ain't no use wishin'
for spilt milk.

"How long I been in Arkansas? Let me see how many chillun I had since I been to Arkansas. Let
me see--I fotch four chillun with me and I'se the mother of ten.

"Yes'm I sho' has worked hard. I worked in the field and cooked and washed and ironed. But
oh Lord I likes my freedom.

"I couldn't tell you what I think of this present generation. They is just like a hoss on the
battle field--white and black. They say 'Grandma, you just an old fogy.'

"I think they is another slave-time gal down in the next block. You want me to show you?"

FOLKLORE SUBJECTS

  Name of interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Subject: Signs and Superstitions
  Story--Information (If not enough space on this page, add page)

"In slavery times you used to carry a rabbit foot in your pocket to keep old massa from whippin'
you."

  This information given by: Eda Harper
  Place of residence: 819 W. Pullen Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Occupation:
  Age: 90

FOLKLORE SUBJECTS

  Name of interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Subject: Games of Pre-War Days
  Story--Information (If not enough space on this page, add page)

"We used to play a game called 'Once Over.' Throw a ball over the house and if they caught
it on the other side, they'd run around and try to catch you.

"Then we used to play 'Hide the Switch.' And if you found it, the others all run to keep from
bein' hit. Oh Lawd, that's been a long time."

  This information given by: Eda Harper
  Place of residence: 819 W. Pullen, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Occupation: None
  Age: 90

  #776
  Interviewer: Watt McKinney
  Person Interviewed: Abram Harris
                      Marvell, Arkansas, (6 miles west)
  Age: 93

Abram Harris, an ex-slave, just past ninety-three years of age lives with his daughter, Hannah,
70 years old, on the farm of Mrs. Alice Davison a few miles west of Marvell, Arkansas. The
two of them have just completed, within the last few days, the harvesting of a small crop of
cotton and corn, and Abram was found in a small thicket not far from their cabin where he was
busily engaged in cutting some firewood for their winter use. A small tree had been felled
and the old man was swinging his axe with the strength and enthusiasm of one far younger than
he as the wood was being cut to the proper length for his heater. Interrupted at my approach,
Abram laid aside the axe and greeted me with that courtesy so characteristic of an ex-slave.
After stating the purpose of my visit, the old negro apparently pleased at this opportunity
afforded him to rest and talk, sat on the body of the newly cut tree and told me the following
story:

"Yes sir, Cap'n, my name is Abram Harris and I is jist past ninety-three year old. En cose
I knows dat I don't look dat old en all de folks sey dat I acts er heap younger dan my age
iffen I really is old as I claims, en I kin still wuk bettern heap dese young uns, kase I is
always knowed how ter wuk. My old Boss Man teach me de tricks. He war er wukker he-self, en
eberybody hed ter roll roun Old Marster. He neber low no lazy pussen ter stay wid him. Yes
sir, Cap'n, I sho has kept up wid my age eber since dat time when Old Marster tole me how ole
I is. Yo kin see dat I is er old nigger, kase dese here whiskers so white en de hair on my
haid so white too. When ye see dat on er nigger yo kin know dat he er old pussen right off.
I gwine ter tell yo, how cum dat I sho knows how old I is. Er heap er niggers, dey tell yo
dat dey is so en so year old when dey aint no sich er thing en dey don't know dey age, but
I does, en hit wus jes dis er way.

"I wus borned en raised in South Carolina not fur from Greenville en my Old Marster whut I
belonged ter, wus Marse Hodges Brown, en my young Marster he wus Marse Hampton, en me en Marse
Hampton wus sho born in de same mont en de same year, en de mont, hit wus October, en dats
zackly whut Old Marster tole me, en Marse Hampton sed dat same thing. Us wus boys togedder,
me en Marse Hampton, en wus jist er bout de same size, en Marse Hampton, he claimed me, en
I gwine ter be his property when bofe us grown. Dat is iffen de war not cum on en Marse Hampton
hadn't er got kilt in de battle. When de war fust brake out, Marse Hampton he too young den
ter jine de troops, how-sum-eber he went ter jine up den when he older brudder, Marse Thad,
jine up, but Old Mis she wud'nt hear ter Marse Hampton gwine off den, kase he not old enuf,
en den, he Old Mis' baby chile. Marse Thad, he bout two er three year older dan Marse Hampton
en he jine de troops at de fust muster en went off ter de war en fit de Yankees night bout
two years when de ball shot him in de shoulder, en he wounded den en hab ter cum bak home fer
ter git well ergin. Atter Marse Thad cum home en stay fer er mont er sich time fer he wound
ter heal up, den he ready ter go bak ter de company, en Marse Hampton gwine ter be eighteen
year old pretty soon den, so dey swade Old Mis ter let Marse Hampton go wid Marse Thad bak
ter de war, so Old Mis en Old Marster, dey gib in en Marse Hampton lef wid Marse Thad ter jine
up wid him in de same company whut he in when de ball hit him. Now dat wuz in de spring when
Marse Hampton jine up wid de troops, en him en me gwine ter be eighteen dat fall in October,
but hit twarnt as awful long fore Marse Hampton got kilt in de big battle, en Marse Thad too.
Dey wuz bofe kilt in de charge, right dar on de bres-wuks, wid dey guns in dey hans, dem two
young Marsters er mine, right dar in dat Gettysburg battle, dats whut Old Marster en Old Mis
bofe tole me er meny er time, en I wus eighteen in dat October atter dat big fight whut Mars
Thad en Marse Hampton git kilt in, en Marse Hodges writ hit down fer me on er paper, en ebery
October since den I gits sumbody whut kin figger ter tell me how old I is so's I kin know en
tell folks when dey ax me, en jes last mont, my gal Hannah figgered hit out er gin en she sey
dat I is now ninety-three past, so dat is de way dat I gits at hit Cap'n. Now is dat right?

"My white folks wus sho good ter all dey niggers. Dere wus nigh bout no whippin er tall, least
Old Marster neber did whip his slaves ter do no good, en he mos ginerally tole us mammies er
pappies ter do de whippin er de chillun en de older boys en gals. He hab whip me do en he whip
Marse Hampton too when us wus boys. Old Marster start in wid dat hickry en mek out lak he gwine
ter frail us out, but atter he done landed er few licks on us, en den us commence hollerin
lak he hirtin bad, den he quit whippin, dat de way Old Marster wus. He neber want ter hurt nobody.

"My pa wus name, Jake, en my Mammy wus named, Fanny, Old Marster bought dem from sum-whar,
but I wus borned right dar, me en Delia en all de res er de chillun.

"Cap'n, wud ye lak fer me ter tell ye bout dat time dat me en Delia wuz stole? Well, we sho
wux stole. De Speckle-ladies (speculators or traders) stole us er way frum Old Marster when
us wus chillun, bout twelve er thirteen year old. Hit happened in de night, when dar warnt
nobody dar in de quarters but de wimmin. Old Marster en all de men wus down on de ribber dat
night, er floatin logs er cuttin timber er sum sich wuk es dat, when dese hear folks cum er
stealin chillun. Delia en me wus de fust ones dat dey grab en de onliest ones dat dey git frum
Old Marster, but dey sho got us. I 'members dat stealin good. Dem folks tuk us off ter de woods
whar dey tied us up ter er tree fer er whole night en day, en tell us dat iffen we cry er holler
dat dey gwine ter kills us sho. Den dey cum en tuk us er way en ganged us up wid er lot mo
nigger boys en gals whut dey done stole sum whars else. Dey yoked us togedder en walked us
clean ter Georgia whar dey sole us. Dey sho pushed dem chillun hard ober de rocks en de hard
places till our feets wud bleed frum de sores whar de rocks en de thorns scratch.

"Dey sole me en Delia ter er young white man en he wife whut ain't been married long en ain't
got no start er niggers yit. Us stayed dar fer mo dan er year I rekkin, en dem wus good white
folks en wus good ter us. De Mis teach Delia ter be er house gal en de Marster teach me ter
handle stock en plow wid him eber day. Us wus skeered ter tell dem white folks whut bought
us whar us home wus en who us Marsters used ter be, kase we skeered dat de speckle-ladies mout
cum bak en steal us sum mo, en tek us er way sum mo. I don't know how hit wus dat Old Marster
Hodges Brown cum ter fine out whar we wus, but he sho learnt er bout hit sum sich er way, en
one mornin early here cum Old Marster Hodges Brown wid two mo white mens cumin atter me en
Delia. Atter dey thru dentifyin us, Old Marster tuk us on bak home wid him, en we sho wus glad
ter go. Now Cap'n, dat is de truf I am tellin you bout dat stealin, when me en Delia wus stole.

"My pappy wus named, Jake, en he wus de wagoner fer Marster till he daid, den Marster tuk me
en trained me fer de wagoner atter den. My Marster warnt no big, rich man lak er heap er de
white folks in dem slabery times, yit en still, he sho hed er plenty er ebery-thing, en de
bes of all he fed he niggers good en wus always good ter tem. Marster used ter peddle er heap
in Columbia en Greenville bofe atter I git ter be de wagoner fer him. Us wud tek big loads
er taters en truck ter dem towns whar Marster wud sell em ter de folks dar. Sumtimes he wud
tek er bout twenty beeves ter one er dem towns en rent him er yard whar he wud butcher er bout
one beef ebery day en peddle out de meat. Marster neber hed many niggers lak lots de white
folks. He jes hed er bout er dozen in all. He sey dat all he want, er got eny use fer.

"Marster hed er big fruit orchard. Jes all kines er fruit wud be in dat orchard, en when dey
ripe, Marster send loads dem apples en peaches down ter de still whar he had dem made up in
ter Brandy en put in de kegs en barrels en brought bak home when hit done. Heap er times dat
I 'members he call de folks up ter de bak gallery en sey, 'Cum on up here folks en git yo all
er dram'. Dats whut he say.

"Whilst our Marster wus good ter all he niggers, dar wus heap er de marsters in dem slabery
times whut wus mean, en dat whut mek de niggers run off en hide in de woods, en dats when dey
git de nigger hounds on em en track em down jes lak ye do er coon. My pappy, Jake, he owned
by er mean white man, fore old Marster bought him in. I 'members bout him tellin us chillun
when he used ter run off en hide in de cane thickets fer days en days kase he marster so mean
en beat him up so bad, en dat he git so hungry dat he slip bak in close ter de house in de
night, en dat sum de wimmins slip him sum meat en bread. He sey dat he used ter sleep wid de
dogs under de crib on cold nights so de togs cud keep him warm.

"Dar warnt none er de white folks in dem slabery times whut wud let dey niggers hab any learnin.
Yo sho better not be cotch er tryin ter learn no readin er writin. Our Marster neber eben lowed
dat, en iffen er nigger wus ter be foun whut cud write, den right straight dey wud chop his
fore finger offen dat han whut he write wid. Dar warnt no sich er thing es no schools fer de
niggers till atter de surrender.

"Endurin er de war, dar warnt no fightin tuk place roun whar us libed, en de onliest Yankees
dat I eber seed wus in Greenville atter de surrender. I sho wus sprized when I seed dem Yankees,
kass I neber knowed whut sort er lookin thing dat er Yankee wus. No Sir, Cap'n, I neber knowed
dat er Yankee wus er man jes lak my white folks till I seed dem in Greenville, but yo know
Cap'n er Yankee looks jes lak yo is, only he do talk funny en fast, mo so dan de kine er white
folks dat I is always been er roun.

"Dar warnt nary one er old Marsters niggers whut lef him eben when dey set free, dat is dey
did'n lebe him fer two er three years eny way, but atter den sum of em started ter driftin
er roun en hirin er roun er bout. When de surrender cum, Old Marster tole em all dat dey free
en kin go iffen dey want ter go, en effen dey want ter go dat he gib em sum grub ter go on.
Marster wus er good man en iffen he war libin ter day, I wud sho quit dis place en go on wid
him, whar-sum-eber he want me ter go.

"No Sir, Cap'n, de niggers dey did'n know what de war wus gwine on fer, en dey did'n know dat
dey free till dere marsters tole em, whilst dey wus wantin ter be free all right. Atter us
wus free, de white folks hab ter teach us jes lak yo teach er chile.

"Dem Klu Klux whut dey brought on atter de surrender wus sho pizen. Dey wus white mens. Dats
whut dey wus, en all dressed up in dem long white garments wid er red cross on em en ridin
er big hoss. Dey wus atter dem niggers whut dey claim is mean en zerted dey marsters en went
en tuk up wid de Yankees. When dem Klu Klux fust cum in operation de niggers think dat dey
is hants er spirits, till dey fine out dat dey warnt nuthin but white mens wid dem garments
on em. Dem Klux wud cotch er nigger dat dey want en pin he haid down ter de groun wid er forked
stick en one wud hold him whilst de others whip im wid er strop er a lash. Yes sir, Cap'n,
dem Klu Klux sho did dis-encourage de niggers er heap.

"Plenty er de white mens whut wus mustered in ter de war wud tek er nigger wid em ter wait
on em en ter tend ter de hosses en de sich eber whut dey want done, en I sho did want ter go
wid Marse Hampton, en mebbe dat I cud tek care of im. Marse Hampton want me ter go wid him
too en try ter swade Old Marster ter let me go, but Old Marster sey dat he hab ter hab me dar
at home ter help mek de crops so's dat he kin send corn en meat ter de sojers. De day dat Marse
Hampton lebe, he cum down ter de quarters fer ter tell all de niggers good-bye, en he sey ter
me 'Abe,' he called me Abe, 'I gwine off ter dat war en kill out dat whole crowd er Yankees,
en den I'se cumin bak en gwine ter Georgia en buy me er farm whar I kin git rich mekin cotton
en terbakker. Yo know yo is my nigger en yo gwine ter Georgia wid me, when I goes'. Hit sho
did hurt me when Marse Hampton got kilt kase I lubed dat white man. He wus good ter me.

"In my dreams at night I kin yit see Marse Hampton, en er heap er times in de day when I is
by myself er hoein de cotton he talks ter me plain so's I kin understand, en he ax me iffin
I is yit en still er good nigger, en tell me ter not be dis-encouraged. Cap'n de Bible is right
when hit sey dat, 'De young mens dream dreams en de old uns see de visions'.

"I kin jes natchally feel spirits, Cap'n, I sho don't spute dat. I is skeered ter spute hit.
When yo is gwine long de road en feel sum warm air, den dat is whar de spirits hes jes been.
De wings er de daid has done fanned dat air till hits hot, en when I is gwine er long en hits
dat hot air, den I knows dat sum spirit er hant hes been er long dat same route, kase hit sho
is hants in dis worl, yit en still dey don't walk en act lak natchal people.

"Yes Sir, Cap'n, I kin tell yo sum er dem old songs whut de niggers used ter sing in de slabery
times. Dis is sum of em:"

  Black Judy wus er good gal,
  En Black Judy wus er bad gal too.

  Mus Jesus bear de cross alone
  and all de worl go free?
  Oh Brother don't stay away
  Oh Blackslider, don't stay away.

  My old Mistis promised me
  dat when she died, she gwine set me free,
  But she lived so long en got so po
  dat she lef me diggin wid er garden ho.

  Wheel er bout en do er bout
  en jump Jim Crow.
  Ebery time I do er bout
  I do jes so.

  Yo can't do wrong en git by
  no matter how hard yo try.
  Yo kin do lak you please
  en feel at yo ease
  But you can't do wrong en git by.

  MAY 31 1938
  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Betty Harris
                      Brinkley, Arkansas
  Age: About 45 or 50?

"My parents wus both in the Civil War. He was Levi Berthy and she was Misson Berthy. Mid Hill
was mother's owner. She said he was better to them than most owners. He never whooped 'em.
Mother was real light and father was dark. I was born in Pinola County, Mississippi. I had
a stroke five years ago. I can't walk a step for two years now. My parents didn't let us hear
them talk, they sent us out to play, then they died before they got old. I never heard much
of their own lives. I live with my daughter and her husband. I don't get Welfare aid."

  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Mary Harris
                      713 N. Plum Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 82

"I was born right here in Arkansas and I remember they was havin' somethin'. I remember when
they taken this town (Pine Bluff). The people what owned me was the parson of the Methodist
church--Parson Walsh. Yes ma'm I knowed the Union soldiers was dressed in blue and the Secessors
was called Greybacks. My father was with the Yankee soldiers. I don't know how he got with
em but I know he was gone away from this town three years. He come back here after he was mustered
out in Vicksburg.

"I remember the Yankee soldiers come and took the colored folks away if they wanted to go.
That was after surrender. They carried us to the 'county band' and fed us.

"I know the day the Yankees taken Pine Bluff; it was on Sunday and Marse Jesse went to services.
The Secessor soldiers left Pine Bluff. Of course I didn't understand what it was all about
cause in them times people didn't enlighten children like they does now. They know everything
now, ain't no secrets.

"Most work I've done is washin' and ironin' since I been a full-grown, married woman. I was
twenty some odd when I was married. I know I was out of my teens.

"I went to school a good while after the war. My first teacher was Mr. Todd from the North.

"I used to do right smart sewing. I did sewing before machines come to this town. The frocks
they used to make had from five to ten yards.

"We is livin' now in a time of worry. What they is doin' is told about in the scripture."

  DEC 21 1937
  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Rachel Harris
                      816½ E. Fifth, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 90

"I reekolect when the war started. I was big enuf to be totin' water, sweepin', feedin' chickens.
I was a big chap when it started. I went with the white chillun and watched the soldiers marchin'.
The drums was playin' and the next thing I heered, the war was gwine on. You could hear the
guns just as plain. The soldiers went by just in droves from soon of a mornin' till sundown.
They said they was goin' to head off the Yankees. Dis fore the war ended I heered en say they
was gwine to free the colored folks. That was in Mississippi.

"My old master was Jim Smith and old mistress' name was Louisa Smith.

"I had many a whip put on me. When they wasn't whippin' me the chillun was. They whipped my
mother and everybody.

"My brother Lewis went plum through the war till surrender. He waited on a Rebel soldier--cooked
and washed for him. I never did see no white Yankee soldiers but I seed the colored soldiers
with the blue suits. I stood out many a night and day and heered them guns.

"Jim Smith had near bout a hundred head of colored folks on his place. He didn't go to war--he
just seed that all the white women had plenty to eat while their men folks was away.

"My mother was sold away from my father long 'fore I was born. He used to come to visit, but
a little while 'fore I was born they stopped him and wouldn't let him come no more.

"After surrender one of my brothers come home and say the war was over.

"We stayed there three years after surrender. They paid my mother and stepfather but they wouldn't
pay us chillun nothin', so my mother sent me to town to live with my sister.

"I hired out as a nurse girl and them white folks just as good to me as could be. She paid
me $3 a month and give me all my clothes. I was young and didn't have no sense, but all I didn't
spend on candy I sent to my mother.

"In slavery times the white folks had a servant to comb the hair and lift up the dress. Yes
ma'm, they had servants. I sho was glad they had that war and freed me.

"Yes, Jesus, I seen them Ku Klux. I member once we had a big ball. We was cuttin' a dash that
night. The Ku Klux come and made out they was dead. Some of the folks run they was so scared,
but one woman come out and said she knowed every one of the men. She knowed em by their hosses.
Next mornin' we went by old Purvis Newman's house and it looked like they was a hundred saddles
layin' out in the yard. I was a young woman then and sparkin' fit to kill. Yes ma'm I member
all about it. I reekolect it just as well as I can walk out that door.

"My son wrote me bout eight years ago and say, 'Mama, you is might near a hunderd.' My daughter,
my baby chile, is bout sixty-three.

"About this younger generation, I don't know what to think. Some say the devil loose 'for a
season.' I say if he ain't loose, he tied mighty slack." One would catch the others as they
ran from behind big trees. Then whoever he caught would be the boogerman, till he caught somebody
else.

       *       *       *       *       *

They made ash cakes and put black walnuts in it. It was just as good as crackling bread which
was made from rendering lard. They made molasses candy and pulled it at the Master's house
during Christmas.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mothers combed their children's hair Sunday and wrapped it, sometimes had dyed string.

The Master had a mule named Beck. Only one on the farm could tend old Beck. He would buck and
kick. Sometimes he would run and he would lope if you "hitched" him to a buggy. When freedom
came the master studied who would tend old Beck so he gave him to Jack. Jack felt so free as
he rode from the farm out into the big world all his own and no place to go. In about a year
Jack sent a letter back by somebody to the Master. "I want you to send me $2.00 of your own
money. My wife has gone raving destracted. My mule is dead. I am pestered and bothered. I bound
you."

       *       *       *       *       *

Will said there used to be witches when somebody got mad with somebody they would bewitch the
cows. You couldn't get the butter to come no matter how long you churned and sometimes a bewitched
cow would come up and give bloody milk. If you keep plenty salt around in the troughs the witches
wouldn't come about so much.

       *       *       *       *       *

If you carry a rabbit foot in your pocket it will bring you good luck. If you find anything
pointed with point toward you, that is a sign of good luck. If you put your shirt or dress
on wrong side out, don't change it. Thats good luck for the day.

       *       *       *       *       *

Don't start to sew a piece of goods on Friday unless you are sure you can get it done before
night for that is bad luck.

       *       *       *       *       *

  This information given by: Rachel Harris
  Place of Residence: Green Grove, Hazen, Arkansas
  Occupation: Field.--Lives with her daughter.
  AGE: 80

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person Interviewed: William Harris
                      DeValls Bluff, Ark.
  Age: 75 or 80

"I was born in Chetam County close to Nashville, Tennessee. Our master was named Joe Harris.
His wife was Miss Sallie Harris. They had eight children. I knowed Newt, Tom and Kittie. My
mother had nine children. Her name was Julia. My papa's name was Isom Harris. I think they
belong to the same family of white folks. Granny was old woman looked after white children.
See if any of em got sick. She seen after little nigger children too. Mama was a field hand
like papa. After war Plummer Harris went on off. He was cruel to his wife and grown folks but
good to the children. We had good houses and plenty wood but the feed was light.

"I seen the Yankees riding through the country. They looked pretty, 'specially them on white
horses. My papa and mama left. Mama died with pneumonia. Papa died, too. We had a mighty hard
time after freedom and before too. Papa worked about on shares--hired out on jobs.

"When freedom come on we went on and they didn't think to give us nothing. When the hands all
left they had the land and nobody to work. They was land pore. It was tore up. Fences down,
houses down, and nothing to be raised to eat in the winter.

"When I got bigger I helped build the North Western Railroad into Nashville. I made right smart
of money. I was building up the track bed. I farmed, worked on the section. I delivered here
till my feet got in bad fix.

"I got thirteen children in all. Some in Tennessee by my first wife and some here and some
grandchildren.

"Folks won't work like I used to work. It ain't no use to be 'larmed bout the times--they been
changing since the world started--still changing. If you able it is best to go hunt work and
be at a job working.

"I heard about the Ku Klux, they never troubled us. I seen em. I was scared of em.

"I get commodities and a check for us three old folks. My wife washes and irons.

"I got a bunion on one foot and raw sores on top of my toes. It won't cure up. Both feet in
bad shape. My wife had both her legs broke. We doing very well."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: William H. Harrison
                      Forrest City, Arkansas
  Age: Over 100

"I was born March 4, 1832 in Richmond, Virginia. Master Anderson Harrison was a cousin to Benjamin
Harrison, the twenty-third President of the United States. Master Anderson Harrison was my
owner. I was a personal attendant of his young son and when I reached manhood I was the carriage
boy. I did all the driving on all the trips the young people of the family took. My memories
of slave days was my easiest days. Slavery was pleasant for me. My owner's wife was named Ann.
The son was Gummel L. Harrison. I went with him to war. I was his servant in the battle-field
till we fought at Gettysburg and Manassas Gap. Then I was captured at Bulls Gap and brought
to Knoxville, Tennessee and made a soldier. I was in the War three and one half years. They
had us going to school. They had Yankee teachers in the army. All the schooling I ever got.
I was mustered out at Chattanooga, Tennessee.

"My parents was Julia Ann Hodge and Cairo Hodge. I don't know my mother's last owners. When
I was about eight years old I was sold to Ben Cowen. When I was thirteen years old I was sold
to Master Anderson Harrison. My brothers Sam and Washington never were sold. Me and Sam Hodge,
my brother, was in the War together. We struck up and knowed one another. A man bought mama
that lived at Selma, Alabama. I never seen her ag'in to know her. After I was mustered out
I went to Birmingham where she was drove and sold in search of her. I heard she was taken to
Selma. I went there. I give out hunting for her. It was about dusk. I saw a woman standing
in the door. I asked her to tell me where I could stay. She said, 'You can stay here tonight.'
I went in, hung my overcoat up. I started to the saloon. I met her husband with a basket on
his arm coming home. I told him who I was. We went to get a drink. I offered him sherry but
he took whiskey. I got a pint of brandy, two apples, two oranges, for his wife and two little
boys. I spent two nights there and two and a half days there, with my own mother but neither
of us knew it then.

"Fourteen years later Wash wrote to me giving me the address. I told him about this and he
said it was mama. He told her about it. She jumped up and shouted and fell dead. I never seen
her but that one time after I was sold the first time. I was about eight years old then. She
had eighteen of us boys and one girl, Diana, and then the half-brothers I seen at Selma. I
had eleven brothers took off in a drove at one time and sold. They was older than I was. I
don't know what become of them. I never seen my papa after I was sold. Diana died in Knoxville,
Tennessee after freedom. I seen better times in slavery than I've ever seen since but I don't
believe in slave traffic--that being sold.

"I was with my young master till my capture. That was my part in freedom. I was forced to fight
by the Yankees then in the Union army. I was with General Grant when Lee surrendered at Appomattox.
That was freedom. After the War I come to Arkansas and settled at Madison. My hardships started.
I got married the first thing.

"This is how good my owners was to me. He sent me to Hendersonville, North Carolina (Henderson?)
to learn to fiddle. I was so afraid of the old colored teacher I learned in a month about all
he could play. I played for parties in eight states in slavery. All up in the North. They trained
children to dance then. I took Martha Jane, Easter Ann, Jane Daniel, my young mistresses and
their mother's sisters, Emma and Laura, to parties and dances all time. We went to Ashville,
North Carolina to a big party. While they was having fine victuals after the dance they sent
me out a plate of turnip greens and turnips, fat meat and corn bread. I took it and set it
down. When Miss Martha Jane got in sight I took her to our carriage. She said, 'Empty it to
the dogs,' and give me one dollar fifty cents and told me to go to town and buy my supper.
I was treated same as kin folks. I et and drunk same as they had to use. After freedom I fixed
up twice to move back to my young master. Once he sent me three hundred fifty dollars to move
on. Betty fell off the porch and broke her thigh. That ended my hopes of going back. Betty
was my first wife. I had seven children by her and one by my second wife and this wife ain't
had none. She's been married twice though.

"I got one boy in Virginia seventy-three years old and one boy sixty-eight years old. My boys
are scattered. One lives here. I don't hear from them now.

"After the War I come to Madison. It was a thriving little river town surrounded on all sides
by wilderness. There were thousands of Indians camped in the neighboring woods. There was nothing
but wooded hills where Forrest City now stands.

"When General Nathan Bedford Forrest built the cut between Forrest City and Madison for the
road, I was his cook and the first fireman to make the run through the cut. I used to drive
a stagecoach over the Old Military Road through Pine Tree on the stage run from Memphis to
Little Rock.

"Game was the nicest thing the country afforded. I killed bear and other wild game on sites
where Marianna, Wynn, and Jonesboro now stand. Where this house now is was a lake then. (West
part of town on north side of the railroad track.) They caught fish in it then.

"When I heard Benjamin Harrison had been elected President of the United States, I asked Mr.
George Lewis to write to him for me. I was working for him then. I handled freight at the depot
for him. He was dubious of me knowing such a person but wrote it to please me. A few weeks
a reply come to our letter and a ticket.

"I got my fiddle and went and visited two weeks. I et at the same table with the President.
I slept in the White House. We et out of skillets together when I was a little boy and drunk
out of the same cups. Me and him and Gummel raised up together. I played for the President
and his Cabinet.

"Twice more I went and it cost me nothing. I played for big balls. My young master sent me
my gold name plate. (It is heart shaped with his name, birth and birthplace--ed.) I been wearing
it on my watch chain a long time. It is my charm. Mr. Lewis was so glad when I got my letter
and ticket. He was good to me.

"I have voted. I voted a Republican ticket because it hope the party out that freed my race.
Some white men told me they burnt up a lot of our votes. I never seen it done. I can't see
to fool with voting.

"The colored folks are seeing a worse time now than in slavery times. There is two sides to
it. The Bible say they get weaker and wiser. I did read before I got blind. I get a Federal
pension of one hundred dollars a month. I'm thankful for it."

Interviewer's Comment

He has trouble talking. One lung is affected. He is deaf. He is blind. He said he was wounded
caused his lung trouble. Seems to me old age. He isn't very feeble in the house. Their house
was clean and he and his wife, also born in slavery, looked clean.

  Interviewer: Bernice Bowden
  Person Interviewed: Laura Hart
                      Eleventh & Orange St., Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 85

"I just can't tell you when I was born cause I don't know. My mother said I was born on Christmas
Eve morning. I'm a old woman. I was big enough to work in slave times.

"Yes ma'am. I member when the war started. I was born in Arkansas. I'm a Arkansas Hoosier.
You know I had to have some age on me to work in slave times.

"I pulled corn, picked cotton and drive the mule at the gin. Just walked behind him all day.
I've pulled fodder, pulled cotton stalks, chopped down corn stalks. I never worked in the house
when I was a child while I was under the jurisdiction of the white folks.

"My old master was Sam Carson and his wife was named Phoebe Carson, boy named Andrew and a
daughter named Mary and one named Rosie.

"We had plenty to eat and went to church on Sunday. After the white folks had their services
we went in. The church was on his place right across the river. That's where I was when freedom
taken place.

"When the war started--I remember that all right--cause when they was gettin' started old master
sent a colored man to take his son's place in the war.

"I was born up here at Fort Smith and brought here to Jefferson County and sold--my mother
and three chillun.

"Now wait--I'm goin' to give you the full history. My father's mother was a white woman from
the North and my father was a colored man. Her folks run her here to Arkansas and she stayed
with her brother till my father was nine months old and then she went back North and my papa
stayed with his uncle.

"When his uncle died he willed my papa his place. He had it recorded at the cotehouse in Little
Rock that my papa was a free man. But he couldn't stay in Arkansas free, so he just rambled
'till he found old man Carson and my mother. He offered to buy my mother but old master wouldn't
sell her so he stayed with old man Carson till they was all free.

"My white folks was tollable fair--they didn't beat up the people.

"My mother was as bright as you are. She could sit on her hair. Her mother was a Creole and
her father was a Frenchman. After freedom they would a killed my father if it hadn't been for
old Sam Carson, cause they thought my mother was a white woman, she was so bright.

"Ku Klux? The Lord have mercy! I remember them. They came and surrounded the house, hundreds
of em. We had a loose plank in the floor and we'd hide under the floor with the dogs and stay
there, too, till they'd gone.

"My father was a gambler. He gambled and farmed. My mother was a Christian woman. When I got
big enough to know anything, she was a Christian woman.

"I married when I was fourteen. We lived at a place called 'Wildcat.' Didn't have no school.
Nothin' up there but saloons and gambling.

"Then we moved to what they called the Earl Wright place. I had four chillun--three boys and
one girl. Most of my work was in the field.

"I been here in Pine Bluff gwine on seventy-one years. You know--I knowed this town when they
wasn't but one store and two houses. I'm a old woman--I ain't no baby.

"Honey, I even remember when the Indians was run out o' this town!

"Well, I done telled you all I know. In my comin' up, the colored people didn't have time to
study bout the chillun's ages."

  #715
  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Hatty Haskell
                      1416 W. Pullen, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 85

"Yes'm, I reckon I was about twelve when the Civil War ended. Oh, I could nurse a little.

"No ma'am, I wasn't born in Arkansas. I was born in Tennessee, but I was brought here when
I was a baby. Come here before the war. The old master had sold 'em.

"We was bought by Will Nichols. You ever hear of this here Dick Lake? Well, that's the place.

"They taken my father and my sister to Texas and stayed till after freedom. My mother was sick
and they didn't carry her and I was too little, so they left me. They was pretty good to us
as far as I know.

"I remember when the Yankees come through. Oh, yes'm, I was scared. I used to hide under the
bed. I wouldn't give 'em a chance to talk to me.

"Our folks stayed on the Nichols' place about two years. Then they farmed on the shares till
he got able to buy him a mule, then he rented.

"After the war the cholera disease come along. My mother and sister died with it.

"Somebody said if you would hang up some beef outdoors between the road and the house, it would
stop the disease. I know old master hung up about a half a quarter and it seemed to work. The
meat would turn green.

"The Yankees took things to eat but the Rebels would take the women's clothes--and the men's
too. I guess they just took 'em 'cause they could.

"Biggest work I've done is farm work.

"My daddy said I was sixteen when I married. I had thirteen children but they ain't all livin'.

"I remember when they said they was free. Some of the folks left the place and never come back
and some of 'em stayed.

"Sometimes I had a pretty good time and sometimes pretty tough.

"I'm gettin' along all right now. I stay here with my son part of the time and then I go to
the country and stay with my daughter."

  #786
  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: Matilda Hatchett
                      424 W. Twenty-Fifth Street, North Little Rock,
                      Arkansas
  Age: Between 98 and 100

"I was born right here in Arkansas about nine miles from Dardanelles (Dardanelle) in Sevier
County. I think it's Sevier. No, it was Yell County. Yell County, that's it. You put the Dardanelles
there and if they get that they'll get the Yell part. Can't miss Yell if you get Dardanelles.

"I wish I could get holt of some of my old white folks. Maybe you can find 'em for me. There's
one big policeman here looks like them but I don't know whether he is or not. The first white
owners that I knowed was Jackie George in South Carolina. That is where I heard them talkin'
about him comin' from. I wasn't born there; I was born here. I wasn't born when he come from
South Carolina. His wife was named Nealie. He was just like a ole shoe. Never whipped me but
one time in my life.

"I'll tell you about it. This is what they whipped me for. Me and my brother, Sam, had to water
the horses. I didn't have to go with Sam, but I was big enough to do that. We had one ole horse
named John--big ole horse. I would have to git up on a ten-rail fence to git on him. One day
I was leading ole John back and I got tired of walking. So when I come to a ten-rail fence,
I got up on ole John. I got up on 'im backwards and I didn't have hold of no bridle nor nothin'
because I was lookin' at his tail.

"The others got back there before they did. Ole master said to them, 'Where's Tillie?'

"They said to him, 'She's comin', leadin' ole John.'

"Atter a while they saw me comin', an' one of 'em said, 'There's Tillie now.'

"An' 'nother one, 'Man, she's sittin' on the horse backwards.' And ole John was amblin' along
nippin' the grass now an' then with his bridle draggin' and me sittin' up on his back facin'
his tail and slippin' and slidin' with every step.

"Ole John was gentle. But they were scairt he would throw me off. Ole missis come out the gate
and met him herself, 'cause she was 'fraid the others would 'cite him and make him throw me
down. She gentled him and led him up to ole master. They was careful and gentle till they got
me off that horse, and then ole master turned and lit into me and give me a brushin'.

"That's the only whippin' he ever give me. But that didn't do me no good. Leastwise, it didn't
stop me from ridin' horses. I rode ole John ever chance I could git. But I didn't ride him
backwards no more."

Dresses

"We used to wear homespun dresses. I have spun a many a yard and wove it. Did you ever see
a loom? I used to have a wheel, and my children tore it up some way or 'nother. I still have
the cards. We done our own knittin' and spun our own thread and knitted our socks and stockings."

Houses

"The white folks lived in pretty good houses and we did too. They lived in big log houses.
The white folks' houses had piazzas between the rooms. That Haney didn't build them houses.
His daddy, Tim Haney, built 'em. The Haneys come in by Tim bein' Thad's father. Thad married
Jackie George's daughter--Louisa George. George was her daddy and Haney was her husband.

"There were four rooms besides the piazza. On one side, there was a big room built out of lumber.
On the other side, there was a big room that a doctor lived in. There was a great big kitchen
west of the piazza. The kitchen was about fifteen by fifteen. I know it was that large because
we'd all eat at the same time. The old man, Tim, owned about thirty niggers. After he died
they were all divided out among the boys. Every boy took his part of the land and his part
of the niggers. But I wasn't at his house then. I was livin' with ole Jackie George. The white
folks hadn't moved together then.

"But I went to ole Tim Haney's funeral. The old white woman fainted and they rubbed her with
camphor and stuff and had her layin' out there. I wasn't old enough to cry over him and wouldn't
anyhow because I didn't care nothin' much about him. But I would have cried for my ole master
though, because I really loved him."

Soldiers

"I saw the soldiers when they come through our place. The first start of us noticin' them was
this. I was always up to the white folks' house. Thad was goin' back to the Rebel army. Ole
master tole my dad to go git 'im a hat. He'd got 'im one and was ridin' back with Thad's hat
on on top of his'n. Before he could git back, here come a man jus' a ridin'.

"Thad was eatin'. He look out, and then he throwed his head back and said, 'Them's the Federals.'

"Thad finished his breakfast and then he ran on out and got with the Federals. He didn't join
'em. He jus' fooled 'em. The bridge was half a mile from our house and the Yankee army hadn't
near finished crossing it when the head of it reached us.

"While they were at the house, pa came ridin' up with the two hats on his head. They took the
hats and throwed pa's on the ground and tried Thad's on. They took the mare but they give it back.

"Them folks stood 'round there all day. Killed hogs and cooked them. Killed cows and cooked
them. Took all kinds of sugar and preserves and things like that. Tore all the feathers out
of the mattress looking for money. Then they put ole miss (Nealie Haney) and her daughter (Louisa
Haney) in the kitchen to cookin'.

"Ma got scairt and went to bed. Dreckly the lieutenant come on down there and said, 'Auntie,
get up from there. We ain't a goin' to do you no hurt. We're after helpin' you. We are freein'
you. Aunt Dinah, you can do as you please now. You're free.'

"She was free!

"They stayed 'round there all night cooking and eatin' and carryin' on. They sent some of the
meat in there to us colored folks.

"Next mornin' they all dropped off goin' down to take Dardanelles. You could hear the cannons
roarin' next day. They was all night gettin' away. They went on and took Dardanelles. Had all
them white folks runnin' and hidin'.

"The Secesh wouldn't go far. They would just hide. One night there'd be a gang of Secesh, and
the next one, there'd come along a gang of Yankees. Pa was 'fraid of both of 'em. Secesh said
they'd kill 'im if he left his white folks. Yankees said they'd kill 'im if he didn't leave
'em. He would hide out in the cotton patch and keep we children out there with him. Ole mis'
made him carry us.

"We was freed and went to a place that was full of people. We had to stay in a church with
about twenty other people and two of the babies died there on account of the exposure. Two
of my aunts died, too, on account of exposure then.

"The soldiers didn't take anything that night but food. They left all the horses. What they
took was what they could eat. But they couldn't catch the turkeys. The lieutenant stayed around
all the time to make the soldiers behave themselves. The meals he made my ole mis' and her
daughter cook was for the officers.

"Yes Lawd! I have been here so long I ain't forgot nothin'. I can remember things way back.
I can remember things happening when I was four years old. Things that happen now I can't remember
so well. But I can remember things that happened way back yonder."

Schooling

"I learnt to read a little after peace was declared. A ole lady, Aunt Sarah Nunly, learnt us
how to spell and then after that we went to school. I went to school three weeks. I never went
to school much.

"Didn't git no chance to learn nothin' in slavery. Sometimes the children would teach the darkies
'round the house their ABC's. I've heard of folks teachin' their slaves to read the Bible.
They didn't teach us to read nothin'. I've heard of it, but I've never seen it, that some folks
would cut off the first finger of a nigger that could write."

Father's Children Freed Before Emancipation

"My father had some children that were set free. They lived down on the river bottom. Their
ole master was named ole Crow. He died and sot his niggers free. He had four slaves. He had
five. If any of you know Philo Pointer, his father was one of 'em. They sot him free. His daughter--Crow's
daughter--wanted the niggers and they would break the ole man's will. They furnished them a
wagon and sot them free. They came by my father's place and he killed his hog and fed them
and they put the rest of it in the wagon and went on to the free state. I've got an old piece
of a dish them boys give my mama. It's done broke up to a piece now, but I saves that.

"Patsy Crow was the name of the girl that was freed, and one of the boys was named Joe Crow,
and the others I don't know what it was. I guess it was Jim. Their old master had left a will
givin' them the wagon and team because he knew it wouldn't be possible for them to stay there
after he died. He said he didn't want his niggers to be under anybody after he died. Wills
was wills in them days. His daughter wanted them niggers, but they didn't give them to her.
They sot them free and sont them off."

Wants to See Her People

"I nursed three children for Thad Haney and Louisa, his wife. Them girls' names was: the oldest
was Julia; the next one was named Emma; and the youngest one was named Virginia. If I can find
them and see them again, I'll be so happy. I jus' want to meet them one more time--some of
them--all of them if they're livin'; but I know they can't all be living.

"Matilda Haney was my name then, and I nursed Thad's children in slavery time."

Age

"I think I'm between ninety-seven and ninety-eight years old. They had an old-age contest in
Reverend Smith's time. They had Reverend Coffee and another man here since Reverend Smith.
The pastor we have now is Yates. Our church is Lee Chapel A. M. E. Church. The contest was
in 1935 I think and the people all agreed that I was the oldest colored woman in North Little
Rock. They said I was ninety-six years old then. That would make me about ninety-eight years
old now. But I saw my children afterwards and they said I was a year older. I used to have
my age in the family Bible and my husband's too, but it got burnt up. Accordin' to them I oughta
be about ninety-nine or a hundred."

Occupation

"My folks didn't raise no cotton. They raised about two bales a year. Didn't have nobody to
raise it. Thirty slaves were not enough for that. And they didn't care nothin' about it nohow.
They had forty-six acres of land in wheat and lots in corn and potatoes. They raised cows,
hogs, horses, turkeys, chickens, and everything else. Even had peafowls. The geese used to
run me 'round many a day.

"They ran a cotton gin and my father managed it. That was his job all the time before the War.

"After the War, my father farmed. He worked on shares. They never cheated him that he knew
about. If they did, he didn't know it. He owned his horses and cows."

  #657
  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: John G. Hawkens
                      Biscoe, Arkansas
  Age: 71

"I was born in Monroe County, Mississippi December 9, 1866. My parents was Frances Hawkens.
She was a half white woman. I was told my daddy was a white man, Mr. Young. Mother was a cook
and house woman. Grandmother was a field woman. She was dark but had some Indian blood in her.
I believe they said it was part Choctaw Indian. I don't remember a grandfather.

"Lamar County, Alabama was across the line from Monroe County, Mississippi. One of the Hawkens
girls (white girl) married a man in Mississippi. The master had three boys and one or two girls.
Grandmother was sold to the Hawkens and mother was born there in Alabama. There was another
woman they owned called Mandy. They was all the slaves they owned that I knowd of.

"When the War come on, the old man Hawkens was dead. His widow had three sons but one was married
and off from her home somewhere. All three boys went to war. Her married son died in the War.

"One son went to war but he didn't want to go. He ask his mother if she rather free the Negroes
or go to war. She said, 'Go fight till you die, it won't be nothing but a breakfast spell.'
He went but come back on a furlough. He spent the rest of the time in a cave he dug down back
of the field. He'd slip out and come to the house a little while at night. It was in the back
woods and not very near anybody else.

"Aunt Mandy, another old man, grandmother and my mother lived in a house in the yard, two of
us was born in slavery. My sister Mandy was fifteen years old when slavery ended.

"The way we first heard about freedom, one of the boys come home to stay but no one knew that
when he came. He told sister Mandy cook him a good supper and he would tell her something good.
She cooked him a good supper and set the table. He set to eat and she ask him what it was.
He told her, 'All the slaves are free now.' From that on it was talked. We left there. My mother
and sister Mandy told me I wasn't born. We went to Mississippi then. I was born over there.
Some sharecropped and some worked as renters.

"Sister Mandy told so many times about carrying fire in a coffeepot--had a lid and handle--to
the son in the cave. She'd go across there, a meadow like and a field, calling the sheep for
a blind so if the cavalry spied her they would think she had a little feed for the sheep. The
cavalry was close about. It was cold and the young master would nearly freeze in his cave.

"Mother said they was good to them. They never touched them to beat them but they all went
from early till late. They all worked and the old mistress too.

"Two of mother's children was slave born. Sister Mandy is dead but my brother George Hawkens
is on 1114 Appenway, Little Rock. He can tell you more than I know. Two of us was born after
slavery. We all had the same father--Mr. Young. He lived about two miles from Hawkens and had
a white wife and family. I carried water to the field where he worked and talked a little with
him. I saw him when he was sick. He had consumption. I heard when he died and was buried. He
never did one thing for us children. Mr. Young and the Hawkens was partners some way in the
farming. Mr. Young died young.

"When her son told my sister Mandy at supper table, 'All the slaves are free now', old mistress
jumped up and said, 'It's not recorded! It's not recorded!'

"Mr. Wolf was a man, old, old man on a big plantation. He had one hundred slaves. He didn't
know his slaves when he met one of them. He had overseers. He talked with his slaves when he
met one about and they would tell him, 'You're my master.' They said during the War the old
man had cotton seed boiled down for his slaves to eat. The War was about to starve them all
out. Oil mills were unheard of at that time.

"The War brought freedom and starvation both to the slaves. I heard old people say they died
in piles from exposure and hunger. There was no let-up to their work after freedom.

"All my family came from Mississippi to Forrest City, Arkansas together. I married the first
time there. My wife died. Then I married at Brinkley, Arkansas. We have one boy living in Lee
County. He's my only child."

Interviewer's Comment

J. G. Hawkens is the whitest Negro I have ever seen. He has blue eyes and straight hair. He
was fishing two days I went to see him.

  #656
  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Lizzie Hawkens
                      Biscoe, Arkansas
  Age: 65

"I was born close to Magnolia, Arkansas.

"My mother was Harriett Marshal. Her old mistress was a Marshal. She was a widow woman and
had let all her slaves go out to her children but mama. Mama was her husband's chile, what
she tole mama. They come here from Atlanta, Georgia visiting her married daughter. They was
the Joiners at Magnolia, Arkansas. She brought mama and on her way back home to Atlanta she
died. Her daughter brought her back and buried her in Arkansas and kept mama.

"Mama said they was nice to her. They wouldn't let her keep company with no black folks. She
was about as white as white folks. She was white as my husband. Her mother was light or half
white. My own papa was a black man.

"The Joiners and Scotts visited down at Magnolia among themselves but they didn't want mama
to marry in the Scott family (of Negroes). But the white folks was mighty good friends. Mama
took care of the children. They was in the orchard one day. Papa spied mama. He picked up a
plum and threw at her. She say, 'Where that come from?' He stooped down and seen her under
the limbs. They was under another plum tree. Papa got to talk to her that day. The old mistress
wouldn't let her out of sight. Papa never could have got her if Mistress Marshal had lived.

"Mama had three or four sisters and brothers in Atlanta, and her mother was in Atlanta. Her
parents were Bob and Lucindy Marshal. Bob was Lucindy's master. Mama told old mistress to bring
Harriett back and she promised she would. That was one thing made her watch after her so close.
She never had been made a slave. She was to look after old mistress.

"After she died mama's young mistress let papa have her. He mustered up courage to ax for her
and she said, 'Yes, L (for Elbert), you can have her.' That was all the marrying they ever
done. They never jumped over no broom she said. They was living together when she died. But
in slavery times mama lived on at Judge Joiner's and papa at Scott's place. One family lived
six miles east of Magnolia and the other six miles north of Magnolia. Papa went to see mama
twelve miles. They cut through sometimes. It was dense woods. Mama had one boy before freedom.
In all she had three boys and four girls.

"The Scott and Joiner white folks told the slaves about freedom. Papa homesteaded a place one
mile of the courthouse square. The old home is standing there now.

"Papa said during the Civil War he hauled corn in an ox wagon. The cavalry met him more than
once and took every ear and grain he had. He'd have to turn and go back.

"He said when freedom come, some of the people tole the slaves, 'You have to root pig or die poor.'

"My great-grandpa was sold in South Carolina. He said he rather die than be sold. He went up
in the mountains and found a den of rattlesnakes to bite him. They was under a stone. Said
when he seen them he said, 'Uhher! You can't bite me.' They commenced to rattle like dry butter-beans.
He went on and dressed to be sold. Master Scott bought him and brought him on to Arkansas.
He had to leave his wife. He never got back to see her.

"Grandpa had to come leave his wife. He married ag'in and had five sons and a girl. They was
Glasco, Alex, Hilliard, Elbert, Bill, and Katherine. They belong to Spencers till the Scotts
bought them but all these children was his Scott children.

"My uncle's wife belong to white folks not Scotts. Scotts wouldn't sell and her folks wouldn't
part from her. They moved down in Louisiana and took her and one chile. Uncle run away to see
her. The Scotts put the hounds after him and run him two days and two nights. He was so tired
he stopped to rest. The dogs come up around him. He took a pine knot and killed the lead dog,
hit him in the head and put him in a rotten knot hole of a hollow tree been burned out and
just flew. The dogs scattered and he heard the horns. He heard the dogs howl and the hoofs
of the man's horses. The old master was dead. He didn't allow the boys to slash in among his
niggers. After he died they was bossy. Uncle said he made his visit and come back. He didn't
ever tell them he killed the lead dog nor how close they come up on him. He said they was glad
to see him when he come back. His wife was named Georgana.

"After freedom grandpa named himself Spencer Scott. He buried his money. He made a truck garden
and had patches in slavery both in South Carolina and at Magnolia. He told me he had rusty
dollars never been turned over since they made him came here. He left some money buried back
there. We found his money on his place at Magnolia when he died. He tole us where it was.

"One night he was going across a bridge and taking a sack of melons to Magnolia to sell in
slavery times. A bear met him. He jumped at the bear and said 'boo'. The bear growled and run
on its way. He said he was so scared he was stiff. They let them work some patches at night
and sell some things to make a little money. The ole master give them some money if they went
to the city. That was about twice a year papa said. He never seen a city till years after freedom.
His pa and grandpa got to go every now and then. Magnolia was no city in them days.

"It is hard to raise children in this day and time. When I went on the Betzner place (near
Biscoe, Arkansas) my son was eight years old. He growed up along side Brooks (Betzner). I purt
nigh talked my tongue out of my head and Brooks' (white boy) mother did the same thing. Every
year when we would lay by, me and my husband (white Negro) would go on a camp. Brooks would
ask me if he could go. We took the two of them. (The Hawkens boy is said to be a dark mulatto--ed.)
He's a smart boy, a good farmer down in Lee County now. He married when he was nineteen years
old. It is hard to raise a boy now. There is boxing and prize fighting and pool halls and that's
not right! Times are not improving as I can see in that way. Worse than I have ever seen them."

  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Becky Hawkins
                      717 Louisiana Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 75

"Yes'm, I was born in slave times but my mammy was sucklin' me. Don't know much bout slavery
but just come up free.

"My mammy's old master was Calvin Goodloe in Alabama, Pulaski County, near Tuscumbia. I heered
my uncle say old master favored his niggers.

"Mammy told me bout em gettin' whippin's, but she never let the overseer whip her--she'd go
to old master.

"My grandmama's hair was straight but she was black. She was mixed Indian. My mammy's father
was Indian and she say he fought in the Revolution. She had his pistol and rocks. When he died
he was the oldest man around there.

"I tell you what I remember. I 'member my mammy had a son named Enoch and he nussed me in slave
days when mammy was workin' in the field. They didn't low em to go to the house but three times
a day--that was the women what had babies. But I was so sickly mammy had Enoch bring me to
the fence so she could suckle me.

"I went to school down here in Arkansas in Lincoln County. I got so I could read in McGuffy's
Fourth Reader. I member that story bout the white man chunkin' the boy down out of the apple tree.

"That was a government school on the railroad--notch house. Just had one door and one window.
They took the nigger cabins and made a schoolhouse.

"After freedom my mammy stayed on old master's place--he didn't drive em away. My mammy spinned
the raw cotton and took it to Tuscumbia and got it wove. Some of it she dyed. I know when I
was a gal I wore a checked dress with a white apron. And my first Sunday dress was striped
cotton. After she worked enough she bought me a red worsted dress and trimmed it and a sailor
hat. We went to church and they led me by the hand. After church I had to take off my dress
and hang it up till next Sunday. Had a apron made of cross barred muslin. Don't see any of
that now. It was made with a bodice and had ruffles round the neck. Wore brass toed shoes and
balmoral stockin's in my gal time. When my husband was courtin' me, my dress was down to my
shoe top. He never saw my leg!

"My fust work was nussin'. I went to Hot Springs with the white folks. I nussed babies till
I got against nussin' babies. I stayed right in the house and slep on a sofa with a baby in
my arms. In my time they lowed you off half a day on Sunday.

"Chile, I washed and ironed and washed and ironed and washed and ironed till I married. I married
when I was seventeen. My mother was dead and I'd rather been married than runnin' loose--I
might a stepped on a snake.

"My daddy was a ex-soldier. I don't know what side he fought on but my mammy got bounty when
he died. That's what she bought that land with down here in Lincoln County from her old master
Goodloe.

"I tell you--I'm a old christian and I think this younger generation is growin' up like Christ
said--they is gettin' weaker and wiser.

"My mother's sister, Patience Goodloe, lived in Pulaski County, Alabama and I went back there
after I was married and stayed two months. I went up and down the fields where my daddy and
mommy worked. I went out to the graveyard where my little brother was buried but they had cotton
and corn planted on the old slavetime graveyard.

"I like that country lots better than this here Arkansas. Don't have no springs or nothin' here."

  #733
  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: G. W. Hawkins
                      1114 Appianway, Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: 73

"I was born in Lamar County, Vernon, Alabama, January 1, 1865. I was a slave only four months.

"My father was Arter Hawkins and my mother was named Frances. My grandmother on my mother's
side was Malvina. I forget the name of my great-grandmother, but I believe it was Elizabeth.
She was one hundred nine years old and I was twelve years old then. Her mind was just like
a little sparrow floating in the air. That was my great-grandmother on my mother's side. My
grandfather on my father's side was named Alec Young. My mother's father was named Eliza Wright.

"My mother's people were the Hawkins, and my father's were the Yanceys.

"My father and mother were farmers, and ran whiskey stills. There wasn't any revenue on whiskey
then. The first revenue ever paid on whiskey was ten cents. The reason I remember that so well
was that a fellow named John Hayman ran a still after the revenue was put on the stuff. Finally
they caught him. They fined him.

"My folks farmed right after freedom and they farmed in slavery time. They didn't raise no
cotton. They raised corn and wheat and such as that in Alabama. Alabama is good for cotton,
corn, wheat, tobacco, or anything you want to grow. It is the greatest fruit country in the world.

"Right after freedom, my folks continued to farm till they all played out."

[HW: Insert on P. 9]

"I came out here after I got grown. I just took a notion to go somewhere else. I have been
in Arkansas forty-eight years. I first lived in Forrest City. Stayed there six years and did
carpenter work. I have been a carpenter all my life--ever since I was about sixteen years old.
I went to Barton, Arkansas and stayed there two years and then came here. I have supported
myself by carpenter work ever since I came here. I helped build the Frisco Road from Potts
Camp to the Alabama River. That is the other side of Jefferson County in Alabama.

"I haven't asked for the old folks pension--can't get no one to believe that I am old enough
for one thing. Can't get it nohow. It is for destitute people. I can't get under the security
because they say I am too old for that. I'm too much of a worker to get old age assistance
and too old to be allowed to put up tax to become eligible for old age pension.

"I never went to school. I just got an old blue back speller and taught myself how to read
and write with what I picked up here and there from people I watched. That's one way a man
never fails to learn--watching people. That's the only way our forefathers had to learn. I
learned arithmetic the same way. I never considered I was much at figuring but I took a contract
from a man who had all kinds of education and that man said I could do arithmetic better than
he could.

"I belong to the A. M. E. Church. I have been a member of it for forty-one years.

"I have three boys living and one stepdaughter. But she feels like she is my own. I don't make
any difference. I never have whipped my children. I had one child--a girl--that died when she
was eight months old. I taught all my boys the carpenter trade, and they all work and stay
right here at home with me."

Living Conditions during and Immediately after Slavery

"There are two quarters that I used to visit with my grandmother when I was a little boy. The
boss's house was built so that he could stand on the porch of his house and see anything on
the place, even in the slave quarters. The houses were all built out of logs. The roof was
put on with what they called rib poles. They built the cable and cut each beam shorter than
the other. They laid the boards across them and put a big log on top of them to weight them
down, so that the wind couldn't blow the planks off. They were home-made planks. They didn't
have no nails. They had nothing but dirt floors.

"Where the men folks were thrifty when they wanted to, they would go out at night and split
the logs into slabs and then level them as much as they could and use those for floors. All
the colored folks' were split log floors if there were any floors at all. There was no lumber
then. The planks were made with whipsaws and water-mills. I was a grown man before I ever saw
a steam mill. The quarters that I saw were those that were built in slave time.

"If cracks were too big, they would put a pole in the crack and fill up the rest of it with
mud--that is what they called chink and dob. The doors were hung on wooden hinges. They would
bore a hole through the hinge and through the door and put a wooden pin in it in place of screws.
There wasn't a nail or a screw in the whole house when it was finished. They did mortise and
tenon joints--all frame houses. Where we use nails now, if they had to, they would bore a hole
and drive in a pin--wooden pin."

Furniture

"The colored folks would put a post out from the corner and bore a hole and put the other end
in it. They wouldn't have any slats but would just lay boards across the side and put wheat
or oat straw on the boards. The women made all the quilts. What I mean, they carded the rolls,
spun the thread--spun it on an old hand-turned wheel--and then they would reel it off of the
broach onto the reel and make hanks out of it. Then they would run it off on what they called
quills. Then it would go 'round a big pin and come out with the threads separated. Then they
would run through something like a comb and that would make the cloth.

"It was the rule in slave time to card one hundred rolls. Sometimes they would be up till after
twelve o'clock at night. They carded that in one night and spun it the next night. Start with
old cotton just like it come from the gin. Card it one night and spin it the next. Done wool
and cotton the same way. One hundred rolls carded gave enough threads to make a yard of cloth.

"In them days they tasked everybody to the limit."

Stoves

"For stoves they used an iron pot on a big fire. In the kitchen, they had a fireplace built
ten feet wide. They had things they called pot racks hung down from the chimney, and they would
hang pots on them. They put the pots on those hooks and not on the logs. When they baked bread
they would use iron skillets--North Carolina people called them spiders. They would put an
iron lid on them and put fire over the top and underneath the skillet and bake good bread.
I mean that old-time bread was good bread. They baked the light bread the same way. They baked
biscuits once a week. Sunday mornings was about the only time you ever got them."

Food in General (Slaves)

"In slavery times they had all kinds of meat--more than they have now--, vegetables and fruits
too. They raised them themselves. There wasn't no food issued. Didn't need to be. One cook
cooked it all in one kitchen and they all sat around the same big old long table long as a
house. All the hands ate at the same table and in the same room and at the same time.

"The way they fed the children, they took pot-liquor or bean soup or turnip liquor or the juice
from anything they boiled and poured it out in a great big wooden bowl and let all the children
get 'round it like so many cats and they would just tip their hands in it and eat what they
wanted. Of course they had all the milk they wanted because everybody raised cows. I didn't
have to undergo this myself, but this was what they had to undergo at the places where my grandmother
took me to visit."

Clothes

"A colored boy had to be more than twelve years old before he wore a pair of pants. He wore
nothing but a long shirt that come down to his knees. The hands in slave time wore homemade
shirts. All clothes were homemade--pants and coats and dresses and stockings and everything.
The shoes were made out of harness leather. Tanned and made right by hand at home. I have seen
tanning vats and yards two blocks square."

Patrollers

"You had to get a pass from owners to go out at night. If you had a pass and the pateroles
found you, it was all right if you hadn't overstayed the time that was written on it. If you
didn't have a pass or if you had overstayed your time, it was still all right if you could
outrun the pateroles. That held before freedom and it held a long time after freedom. The pateroles
were still operating when I was old enough to remember those old quarters. They didn't break
them up for a long time. I remember them myself. I don't mean the Ku Klux. The Ku Klux was
a different thing altogether. The Ku Klux didn't exist before the War. I don't know where they
got the name from--I don't know whether they give it to themselves or the people give it to
them. But the Ku Klux came after the War and weren't before it."

Ku Klux Influence on Negroes

"The Ku Klux Klan weren't just after Negroes. They got after white folks and Negroes both.
I didn't think they were so much after keeping the Negro from voting as some other things.

"There was one colored fellow in Alabama--I think his name was Egbert Bondman--that wasn't
influenced. He was a politician and they got after him one time. He lived about six miles south
of Vernon in Lamar County, Alabama. He went down to the hole where they watered their horses
and stretched an old cable wire across the road just high enough to trip up their horses. He
hid in the woods and cut down on them with his shotgun when they came up. I hear there was
one more scramble when those horses commenced stumbling, and those men started running through
the forest to get away from that shot.

"I remember one night my mother woke me up, and I looked out and there was a lot of the Ku
Klux riding down the road. They had on long white robes and looked like a flock of geese in
the dark.

"The main thing the Ku Klux seemed to try to do, it seemed to me, was to try to keep the colored
folks obedient to their former masters and to keep the white folks from giving them too much
influence. And they wanted to stop the white men that ran after colored women.

"But they didn't last long. They whipped a fellow named Huggins in the early seventies, and
he was a government man. After that government men camped on their trail, and they didn't amount
to much."

Slave Breeding

"The thing they were fighting began in slavery. There were slave men kept that forced slave
women to do what they wanted to do. And if the slave women didn't do it, the masters or the
overseers whipped them till they did. The women were beat and made to go to them. They were
big fine men, and the masters wanted the women to have children by them. And there were some
white men, too, who forced the slave women to do what they wanted to. Some of them didn't want
to stop when slavery stopped."

Slave Tasks and Hours of Work

"I've told you the slaves were tasked to the limit. The hours of the slave hands--if it was
summer time--he must be in the field when the sun rose. And he must come home and eat his dinner
and get back in the field and stay till the sun went down. In the winter time he must be out
there by the time it was light enough to see the work and stay out till it was just too dark
to see the work with just enough time out to stop and eat his dinner. This was just after slavery
that I remember. But the hours were the same then. The average on cotton picking was two hundred
pounds a day. Pulling fodder was a hundred bundles. Gathering corn and such as that was all
they could do."

Wages just after Freedom

"The average wage that a man got for twenty-six days' work--twenty-six days were counted a
working month--was eight dollars and board for the month. That was the average wage for work
like that. That is the way they worked then."

This Matter of Slave Clothes Again

"Clothes!!! They didn't know nothing 'bout underclothes. They didn't wear them just after the
War, and I know they didn't before the War--not in my part of Alabama. That's the reason why
they say the Negro is cold natured. He didn't have anything on. I have seen many a boy picking
and chopping cotton on a cold autumn day with nothing on but his shirt. In his bare feet too.
He got one pair of shoes a year and he didn't get no more. When he wore them out, he didn't
have any till the next year.

"When I was a boy I have seen many a young lady walk to church with her shoes flung over her
shoulders and wait till she got nearly there before she would put them on. She didn't want
to wear them out too soon.

"I didn't have to undergo this myself.

"When I was ten years old, my job was to drive a [HW: ox] team twenty-six miles, and it took
me two days to go and two days to come and one day to load and unload--five days. The team
was loaded with cotton going and anything coming back. We used to get salt from some place
near New Orleans. We would drive ox teams down there, put in on order, wait till they dipped
the water out of the lake, boiled the salt out of it, and packed it up. There was no such thing
as mining salt like they do now. It would take from August first till about the middle of September
to get it. Ox team won't make more than about twelve miles a day. The people would make up
a wagon train and go and come together. People in those days didn't believe a horse would pull
anything but a buggy, so they used steers mostly for heavy pulling. They ran all gins and thrashers
by horse power and the running gear was all made out of wood. A lot of people say you couldn't
make a wooden cotton press that would pack a bale of cotton. You can make a wooden press that
will break a bale in two. Of course the gin was made out of metal. But they made the press
out of wood."

Slave Schooling

"The slaves were not allowed to learn anything. Sometimes one would be shrewd enough to get
in with the white children and they would teach him his a-b-c's, and after he learnet to spell
he would steal books and get out and learn the rest for himself."

How Freedom Came

"The way I heard it the owners called their slaves up and told them they was free. They give
them their choice of leaving or staying. Most of them stayed."

First Crop after Freedom

"In 1865, when the slaves were freed, they acknowledged they were free in May in Alabama. All
that was free and would stay and help them make their crops, they give them one-tenth. That
is, one-tenth went to all the hands put together. Of course if they had a lot of hands that
wouldn't be much. Then again, it might be a good deal. I know about that by hearing the old
people talk about it."

Opinions

"I'll tell you my opinions some other time. I think the young people are beyond control. I
don't have any trouble with mine. I never have had any trouble with them."

  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: Eliza Hays
                      2215 W. Twentieth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: 77 or more

"On the fourth of August, my birthday, and directly after the colored people were set free,
all the white people gave a great big dinner to the slaves. All the white people at my home
came together and gave a big dinner to us. It was that way all over the United States. My mother
told me I was four years old at that big dinner. They went to a great big book and throwed
it open and found my birthday in it. I never will forget that. You can figure from that exactly
how old I am. (Seventy-seven or seventy-eight--ed.)

"My mother's name was Elizabeth Tuggle and my father's name was Albert Tuggle. My mother was
the mother of sixteen children. They were some of them born in freedom and some born in slavery.
They are all dead but three. My mother was married twice.

"Old Tom Owens was my mother's master. I just do remember him. My father's master was named
Tom Tuggle. My mother and my father got together by going different places and meeting. They
went together till freedom and weren't married except in the way they married in slavery. During
slavery times, old master gave you to some one and that was all of it. My father asked my mother's
old master if he could go with my mother and old man Owens said yes. Then father went to her
cabin to see her. When freedom came, he taken her to his place and married her accordin' to
the law.

"Aunt Mariny Tuggle was my father's mother. I don't know anything about his father. She has
been dead! She died when I was young. I can remember her well, though.

"I can remember my mother's mother. Her name was Eliza Whitelow. Her husband was named Jack
Whitelow. They was my grandfather and my grandmother on my mother's side. They old people.
I can remember seeing them.

"I never saw my grandfather on my father's side. That was way back in slavery time. I used
to hear them say he was a guinea man. He was short. My own father was small too. But my father's
father was short as I am. I am about four and a half feet tall. (I stopped here and measured
her, and she was exactly four feet six inches tall--ed.) I never heard nobody say where he
came from. My father's sisters were part Indian. Their hair was longer than that ruler you
got in your hand there. It came down on their shoulders. They was a shade brighter than I am.

"My father's mother was small too. His sisters were not whole sisters; their daddy was Indian."

Occupation

"My father and his father and mother were all farmers. My mother and her mother were farmers
too. All my people were long-lived. Grandpa, grandma, and all of them. I reckon there about
a hundred children scattered back there in Tennessee. Brother's children and sister's children.
I believe my folks would take care of me if they knew about my condition. These folks here
are mean. Them folks would take care of me if I were home."

Slave Houses

"The slaves lived in old log houses; just one room, one door, one window, one everything. They
had any kind of furniture they could git. Some of them had old homemade beds and some of them
one thing and another. You know the white folks wasn't goin' to give them no furniture.

"They had plenty of meat and bread and milk to eat. Coarse food--the commonest kind of food
they could get 'hold of! When I knowed anything, I was in the big house eating the bes' with
the white folks. Some of them could live well then. My mama gave me to the Owenses--her old
mistress. I was raised on a pallet in the house. I was in the house from the time I was large
enough to be taken from my mother. I didn't never do any work till I was married. Old mistress
wouldn't let me work. Just keep by her and hand her a drink of water, and on like that. She's
dead now--dead, dead, dead! They didn't leave but two children, they was 'round in the country
somewheres then I left there.

"After I married I went to her husband's first wife's child. She had about nine or ten boys
and one girl. I raised part of them. But most of them was great big children--big enough for
me to throw a glass of milk at their heads. I would fight. Sometimes they used to hear them
hollering and come out, and I would be throwing a glass at one and jumping across the table
at the other. But when them boys grew up, they loved me just the same as anybody. Nobody in
town could touch me, right or wrong."

Mean Masters

"My mother's masters used to tie her down before the dairy door and have two men beat her.
She has told me that they used to beat her till the blood ran down on the bricks. Some white
people in slavery times was good to the niggers. But those were mean, that's the reason I ain't
got no use for white folks. I'm glad I was not old in that time. I sure would have killed anybody
that treated me that way. I don't know that my father's people beat him up. I think his people
were kinder and sorter humored him because he was so small."

Marriage

"They tell me some of them would have a big supper and then they would hug and kiss each other
and jump over the broomstick and they were supposed to be married."

Amusement and Recreation

"They used to go out and dance and carry on for amusement, and they would go to church too.
It was just about like it is now. Dancing and going to church is about all they do now, isn't
it? They got a gambling game down there on the corner. They used to do some of that too, I guess."

Breeders

"I have heard my mother say many times that a woman would be put up on the block and sold and
bring good money because she was known to be a good and fast breeder."

Ku Klux, Patrollers, Robbers

"I've heard of the pateroles and Ku Klux. I thought they said the Ku Klux was robbers. I think
the Ku Klux came after the War. But there was some during the War that would come 'round and
ask questions. 'Where's yo' old master?' 'Where's his money hid?' 'Where's his silverware?'
And on like that. Then they would take all the money and silver and anything else loose that
could be carried away. And some of them used to steal the niggers theirselves 'specially if
they were little childrens. They was scared to leave the little children run 'round because
of that."

Opinions

"I don't know. I better keep my 'pinions to myself. You just have to go on and be thankful
and look to the Lord."

Support and Later life

"I haven't done a day's work for seven years. I haven't been able. I have a son, but he has
a family of his own to support and can't do nothin' for me. I have another son but he is now
out of work himself. He can't get anything to do. I just have to git along on what little I
can turn up myself, and what little I get from my friends.

"My husband died about seven years ago. I have lost two boys inside of seven years. After they
died, I went right on down. I ain't been no good since. The youngest one, Mose, got killed
on a Sunday night. I felt it on Saturday night and screamed so that people had to come 'round
me and hold me and comfort me. Then on Sunday night Mose got shot and I went crazy. He was
my baby boy and he and his brother were my only support. My other boy got sick and died at
the hospital. When the man stepped on the porch to tell me he was dead, I knew it when I heard
him step up before he could say a word. I can't git to see his wife now. She was the sweetest
woman ever was. She was sure good to my son. She treated him like he was a baby. She was devoted
to him and his last request to her was to see to me. I don't know just where she is now, but
she's in the city somewheres. She would help me I know if I could get to her.

"My husband was a preacher. He pastored the St. John Baptist Church for fifteen years. He lived
here over thirty years before he died. I left a good home in Brownsville, Tennessee. That's
where we were married. I have been married twice. I lived with my first husband, George Shaver,
a year. I married him about 1876. I was single for two years. After that I married Rev. Hays.
I lived with Rev. Hays about twenty-one years in Brownsville, Tennessee. We bought a house
and lot there. We were gettin' along fine when we decided to come here. He was a shoemaker
then. He made shoes after he came here, too. I ran a restaurant in Brownsville. I guess we
lived together more then fifty years in all. He died seven years ago.

"I rent these two rooms in this little shack. They won't give me no help at the Welfare."

  --- 1- 1937
  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Tom Haynes
                      1110 W. Second Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age:

"I was six years old when the war ended--the day we was set free. My old mistress, Miss Becky
Franks, come in and say to my mother 'Addie, you is free this morning' and commenced cryin'.
She give my mother some jerked beef for us.

"I know I run out in the yard where there was eighty Yankee soldiers and I pulled out my shirt
tail and ran down the road kickin' up the dust and sayin', 'I'm free, I'm free!' My mother
said, 'You'd better come back here!'

"I never knew my mother to get but one whippin'. She put out her mouth against old mistress
and she took her out and give her a breshin'.

"I can remember away back. I can remember when I was three years old. One day I was out in
the yard eatin' dirt and had dirt all over my face. Young master Henry come out and say 'Stick
out your tongue, I'm goin' to cut it off.' I was scared to death. He said 'Now you think you
can quit eatin' that dirt?' I said 'Yes' so he let me go.

"One time the Yankee soldiers took young Master Henry and hung him up by the thumbs and tried
to make him tell where the money was. Master Henry's little brother Jim and me run and hid.
We thought they was goin' to hang us too. We crawled under the house just like two frogs lookin'
out.

"Old master had about thirty-five hands but some of em run away to war. My father run away
too, but the war ended before he could get into it.

"I went to school a little while, but my father died and my mother bound me out to a white man.

"When we was first freed I know those eighty soldiers took us colored folks to the county band
in Monticello. There was forty soldiers in the back and forty in front and we was in the swing.

"I learned to read after I was grown. I worked for the railroad in the freight office fifteen
years and learned to check baggage.

"I was a house mover when I was able, but I'm not able to work now. I own this house here and
I'm livin' on the relief.

"My father was a blacksmith and shoemaker--made all our shoes. I've lived in town all my life.

"The people are better off free if they had any sense. They need a leader. When they had a
chance if they had bought property, but no--they wanted to get in office and when they got
in they didn't know how to act. And the young people don't use their education to help themselves."

  #782
  Interviewer: Bernice Bowden
  Person Interviewed: Joe Haywood
                      2207 West Eleventh Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 76

"I was born the first day of January, 1862 Born in Mississippi, Yazoo County. My mother said
I was a New Year's present. A. M. Payne was our owner.

"I just do 'member seein' the soldiers and that's all. I 'member the brim of slavery and that's
all.

"I member Henry Dixon. He was a Klu Klux. He was Klu Klukin round breakin' up the benevolent
societies. He was a real bad man. He just went round with his crowd and broke 'em up. My owner
was a good man--good man. They all give him a good name.

"Our folks stayed there till I was plumb grown.

"I've farmed, carpentered, and all kinds of work on the plantation. I've been a engineer in
a gin and gettin' out crops every year.

"After I left Mississippi I just roved around. Went through Louisiana to Texas. I lived in
Texas. I reckon, from 1893 to '96. Then I started to rove again. I roved from Texas back home
to Mississippi in 1902. Stayed there till 1932, then I roved over here to Arkansas. I done
got too old to rove now.

"School? Oh Lord, I went to school all my days till I was grown. They kep' me in school. My
mother kep' me in till she died and then my stepmother kep' me in. I got very near through
the fifth grade. In my day the fifth grade was pretty good. Wilson's Fifth Reader was a pretty
good book. They took me out of Wilson's Fifth Reader and put me in McGuffy's and there's where
I quit. Studied the Blue Back Speller.

"I've had some narrow escapes in my life. I had a shot right through here in the breast bone--right
over my heart. That was in ninety-six. Me and another fellow was projectin with a gun.

"Then I had a bad accident on the ninth of March, 1914. A 800-foot log came down on me. It
near 'bout killed me. I was under a doctor 'bout six or eight months. That's how come I'm crippled
now. It broke my leg and it's two inches shorter than the other one. I walked on crutches 'bout
five years. Got my jawbone broke too. Couldn't eat? I ain't never stopped eatin'. Ain't no
way to stop me from eatin' 'cept to not give it to me.

"I compressed after I got my leg broke. And I was a noble good bricklayer.

"I never have voted. Nobody ever pushed me up to it and I ain't never been bothered 'bout anything
like that. Everythin was a satisfaction to me. Just whatever way they went was a satisfaction
to me.

"I have never heard my folks give my white folks no 'down the hill'. My daddy was brought from
Charleston, South Carolina. He was a ship carpenter. He did all of Payne's carpenter work from
my baby days up.

"The last of the Paynes died since I came here to Arkansas. He was a A. M. Payne, too.

"I can 'member the soldiers marchin' by. They wore yellow shirts and navy blue coats. I know
the coats had two little knobs right behind, just the color of the coat.

"I don't know what to think of the younger generation. I don't know why and what to think of
'em. Just don't know how to take 'em. Ain't comin' like I did. Lay it to the parents. They
have plenty of leaders outside the family.

"I'm lookin' for a better time. God's got His time set for 'em on that.

"I belong to St. James Methodist Episcopal Church."

  #737
  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: Marie E. Hervey
                      1520 Pulaski Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: 62

"I have heard my father and mother talk over the War so many times. They would talk about how
the white people would do the colored and how the Yankees would come in and tear up everything
and take anything they could get their hands on. They would tell how the colored people would
soon be free. My mama's white folks went out and hid when the Yankees were coming through.

"My father's white people were named Taylor's--old Job Taylor's folks. They lived in Tennessee.

"My mother said they had a block to put the colored people and their children on and they would
tell them to tell people what they could do when the people asked them. It would just be a
lot of lies. And some of them wouldn't do it. One or two of the colored folks they would sell
and they would carry the others back. When they got them back they would lock them up and they
would have the overseers beat them, and bruise them, and knock them 'round and say, 'Yes, you
can't talk, huh? You can't tell people what you can do?' But they got a beating for lying,
and they would uh got one if they hadn't lied, most likely.

"They used to take pregnant women and dig a hole in the ground and put their stomachs in it
and whip them. They tried to do my grandma that way, but my grandpa got an ax and told them
that if they did he would kill them.

"They never could do anything with him.

"My mother's people were the Hess's. They were pretty good to her. It was them that tried to
whip my grandma though.

"You had to call everybody 'Mis'' and 'Mars' in those days. All the old people did it right
after slavery. They did it in my time. But we children wouldn't. They sent me and my sister
up to the house once to get some meal. We said we weren't goin' to call them no 'Mars' and
'Mis'.' Two or three times we would get up to the house, and then we would turn 'round and
go back. We couldn't make up our minds how to get what we was sent after without sayin' 'Mars'
and 'Mis'.' Finally old man Nick noticed us and said, 'What do you children want?' And we said,
'Grandma says she wants some meal.' When we got back, grandma wanted to know why we took so
long to go and come. We told her all about it.

"People back home still have those old ways. If they meet them on the street, you got to get
off and let them by. An old lady just here a few years ago wouldn't get off the sidewalk and
they went to her house and beat her up that night. That is in Brownsville, Tennessee in Hayeard
[HW: Haywood] County. That's an old rebel place.

"White people were pretty good to the old colored folks right after the War. The white folks
were good to my grandfather. The Taylors were. They would give him a hog or something every
Christmas. All the old slaves used to go to the big house every Christmas and they would give
them a present.

"My husband ran off from his white people. They was in Helena. That's where he taken the boat.
He and a man and two women crossed the river on a plank. He pulled off his coat and got a plank
and carried them across to the other side. He was goin' to meet the soldiers. He had been told
that they were to come through there on the boat at four o'clock that afternoon. The rebels
had him and the others taking them some place to keep them from fallin' into the hands of the
Yankees, and they all ran off and hid. They laid in water in the swamp all that night. Their
bosses were looking for them everywhere and the dogs bayed through the forest, but they didn't
find them. And they met some white folks that told them the boat would come through there at
four o'clock and the white folks said, 'When it comes through, you run and get on it, and when
you do, you'll be free. You'll know when it's comin' by its blowin' the whistle. You'll be
safe then, 'cause they are Yankees.'

"And he caught it. He had to cross the river to get over into Helena to the place where the
boat would make its landin'. After that he got with the Yankees and went to a whole lot of
places. When he was mustered out, they brought him back to Little Rock. The people were Burl
Ishman and two women who had their children with them. I forget the names of the women. They
followed my husband up when he ran off. My husband's first name was Aaron.

"My husband had a place on his back I'll remember long as I live. It was as long as your forearm.
They had beat him and made it. He said they used to beat niggers and then put salt and pepper
into their wounds. I used to tell daddy that 'You'll have to forget that if you want to go
to heaven.' I would be in the house working and daddy would be telling some white person how
they 'bused the slaves, and sometimes he would be tellin' some colored person 'bout slavery.

"They sold him from his mother. They sold his mother and two children and kept him. He went
into the house crying and old mis' gave him some biscuits and butter. You see, they didn't
give them biscuits then. That was the same as givin' him candy. She said, 'Old mis' goin' to
give you some good biscuits and some butter.' He never did hear from his mother until after
freedom. Some thought about him and wrote him a letter for her. There was a man here who was
from North Carolina and my husband got to talking with him and he was going back and he knew
my husband's mother and his brother and he said he would write to my husband if my husband
would write him a letter and give it to him to give to his mother. He did it and his mother
sent him an answer. He would have gone to see her but he didn't have money enough then. The
bank broke and he lost what little he had saved. He corresponded with her till he died. But
he never did get to see her any more.

"Nothin' slips up on me. I have a guide. I am warned of everything. Nothin' happens to me that
I don't know it before. Follow your first mind. Conscience it is. It's a great thing to have
a conscience.

"I was born in Tennessee. I have been in Arkansas about forty-six years. I used to cook but
I didn't do it long. I never have worked out much only just my work in the house. My husband
has been dead four years this last April. He was a good man. We were married forty years the
eleventh of December and he died on the eighth of April." He had a son in Memphis. I seen him
not long ago. He is an insurance agent. They was rosy rich looking folks. Mama was a yellow
woman. She had fourteen living children. Her name was Harriett Gates. Papa named Shade Huggins.
They belong to different folks. They was announced married before the War and they didn't have
to remarry.

"She said the overseers was cruel to them. They had white men overseers. She was a field hand.
I heard her say she was so tired when she come to the house she would take her baby in her
arms to nurse and go to sleep on the steps or under a tree and never woke till they would be
going to the field. She would get up and go on back. They et breakfast in the field many and
many a time. Old people cooked and took care of the children. She never was sold. I don't know
if my father was. They come from Alabama to Mississippi and my mother had been brought from
Georgia to Alabama.

"She picked geese till her fingers would bleed to make feather beds for old master I reckon.
They picked geese jus' so often. The Gates had several big quarters and lots of land. They
come to be poor people after the War--land poor. Mother left Gates after the War. They didn't
get nothing but good freedom as I ever heard of. My father was a shoemaker at old age. He said
he learned his trade in slavery times. He share cropped and rented after freedom.

"I heard 'em say the Ku Klux kept 'em run in home at night. So much stealing going on and it
would be laid at the hands of the colored folks if they didn't stay in place. Ku Klux made
them work, said they would starve and starve white folks too if they didn't work. They was
share cropping then, yes ma'am, all of them. I know that they said they had no stock, no land,
no rations, no houses to live in, their clothes was thin. They said it was squally times in
slavery and worse after freedom. They wore the new clothes in winter. By summer they was wore
thin and by next winter they had made some more cloth to make more new clothes. They wove one
winter for the next winter. When they got to share croppin' they had to keep a fire in the
fireplace all night to warm by. The clothes and beds was rags. Corn bread and meat was all
they had to eat. Maybe they had pumpkins, corn, and potatoes. They said it was squally times.

"I got a place. I rented it out to save it. My brother rents it. I can't hardly pay taxes.
I'd like to get some help. I could sew if they would let me on. I can see good. I'm going to
chop cotton but it so long till then.

"I washed and ironed in Memphis till washing went out of style. Prices are so high now and
cotton cheap. I'm counting on better times.

"Times is close. Young folks is like young folks always been. Some are smart and some lazy.
None don't look ahead. They don't think about saving. Guess they don't know how to save. Right
smart spends it foolish. I'm a widow and done worked down."

EX-SLAVES

  Interviewer: Pernella Anderson
  [HW: Hicks, Will]

"I was born in Farmerville, La., I don't know what year. I was about three or four years at
surrender. I lived with my mother and father. The first work I ever did was plow. I did not
work very hard at no time but what ever there was to do I went on and got through with it.
All of our work was muscle work. There were no cultivators.

"I stayed at home with my father and mother until I was 32 years of age. I was thirty years
old when papa died and mother lived two years longer. About a month after mother died I married.
We lived in a real good house. My father bought it after slavery time. We had good furniture
that was bought from the hardware. The first stove that we used we bought it and father bought
it just after surrender. Never used a homemade broom in my life. Now, Ma just naturally liked
ash cakes so she always cooked them in the fireplace. We wore all homespun clothes, and we
wore the big bill baily hats. We chaps went barefooted until I was 16 years old then I bought
my first pair of shoes. They were brass toe progans. I never been in the school house a day
in my life. Can't read neither write nor figure. I went to church. Our first preacher was name
Prince Jones. The biggest games I played was ball and card. I was one of the best dancers.
We danced the old juland dance, swing your partner, promonate. Danced by fiddling. The fiddlers
could beat the fiddlers of today. Get your partners, swing them to the left and to the right,
hands up four, swing corners, right hands up four promonate all around all the way, git your
partners boys. I shoot dice, drink, I got drunk and broke up church one Sunday night. Me and
sister broke up a dinner once because we got drunk. Whiskey been in circulation a long time.
There have been bad people ever since I been in the world."

--Will Hicks.

  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Bert Higgins
                      611 Missouri Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 88

"I was born in slavery times. I was thirteen when peace declared. I was workin' in the field.

"No ma'am, I wasn't born in Arkansas. I was born in Macon, Mississippi.

"Marcus Higgins was my old master. He was good to me. He treated me all right.

"He had a good big plantation--had two plantations. One in North Carolina and one in Mississippi.

"Sold? Yes'm, I was put up on the block, but they couldn't quite make it. Had six of us--boys
and girls--and he sold one or two I 'member. But that's been a long time.

"Yes'm, I can 'member when I was a boy in slavery. Run off too. Old master ketch me and switch
me. Look like the switch would sting so. 'Member the last switchin' I got. Dr. Henderson--I
think he was old master's son-in-law. Me? Well, he whipped me 'cause I'd steal his eggs. I
don't reckon I would a been so bad but I was raised up a motherless child. My mother died and
my stepmother died.

"I can 'member pretty well way back there.

"He'd send me off on a mule to carry the mail to his people around. And I used to tote water.
He had a heap a darkies.

"I could do very well now if I could see and if I wasn't so crippled up. I was a hard worker.

"We had a plenty to eat and plenty to wear in slavery times.

"Old master would whip me if I went any further than the orchard. If I did happen to go outside
the field, I come in 'fore night. But I hardly ever went outside. Sometimes I run off and when
I come back to the house, he'd give me a breshin'.

"I seen the Yankees durin' of the War. I run from 'em and hid. I thought they was tryin' to
carry me off. White folks never did tell me nothin'. They'd come in and throw things outdoors
and destroy 'em--old master's provisions. And they'd take things to eat too.

"My father belonged to Marcus Higgins when I first could remember.

"After freedom we stayed there till I was grown. I don't never 'member him payin' me, but I
got somethin' to eat and a place to stay.

"I never went to school; I had to work. I farmed all my life till I come to the city of Pine
Bluff. I worked here 'bout thirty years.

"I've always been well treated by my white folks. I never sassed a white person in my life
as I remember of--never did. I think that's the reason I was so well took care of 'cause I
never sassed 'em. I've always tried to do what was right.

"I think these here government people have treated us mighty well. They have give us money
and other things.

"When we got free old master read it to us out of the paper. We was out in the field and I
was totin' water. Some of 'em struck work and went to the house and set around a while but
they soon went back to the field. And a few days after that he hired 'em.

"Old master was good. He'd let you stop and rest. He hired a overseer but he didn't do no work.
The time run out 'fore he got started.

"I think this younger generation is havin' a heap harder time than the old folks did. Their
disbehavior and the way they carry theirselves now'days. So many of 'em will pick up things
don't belong to 'em.

"I don't believe in these here superstitions. I tried carryin' a rabbit foot and I know it
never brought me no good luck. If you serve the Lord and try to live right, pray and serve
the Lord, and whatever you need you'll get it." Name and address of informant--Annie Hill,
3010 Izard Street, Little Rock.

2. Date and time of interview--

3. Place of interview--3010 Izard Street, Little Rock.

1. Ancestry--father, Richard Hill; mother Hulda Bruce.

2. Place and date of birth--Nashville, Arkansas in 1877.

3. Family--

4. Places lived in, with dates--Nashville, Benton and Little Rock. She died in 1920. Her name
is Hulda Bruce. She belonged to a man named Leslie during slavery. I forget his name--his first
name. She come from Mississippi. She was sold there when she was eleven years old. That is
where all her people were. There might be some of them here and I don't know it. She said she
had three sisters but I don't know any of them. The folks raised her--the Leslie white folks.
It was the Leslies that brought her and bought her in the old country. I don't know the names
of the people that sold her. She wasn't nothing but a kid. I guess she would hardly know.

"The Leslies brought her to Arkansas when she was eleven. That is what she always told us kids.
She was eleven years old when they sold her. Just like selling mules.

"I don't know what is the first place they come to here. Benton, Arkansas was the first place
I knowed anything about. That is where her folks were and that is where the young generation
of them is now. The old ones is dead and gone.

"I was born in Nashville. And she had come from Benton to Nashville. She was living In Benton,
Arkansas when she died. She was never able to send me to school when I was young. When the
white folks first turned them loose they weren't able to do for them as they are now. Children
have a chance now and don't appreciate it. But when I was coming up my folks weren't able.
Mother knew she was one hundred eight years old because her white folks told her what it was.
When her old white folks died, the young ones hunted it up for her out of the old family Bible
and sent it to me. The Bible was so old that the leaves were yellow and you could hardly turn
them. They were living in Benton, Arkansas and I guess they are still living there because
that is the old home place. That is the kids is still there, 'cause the old folks is dead and
gone. One girl is named Cora and one of the boys is called Bud, Buddy. Leslie is the last name
of them both.

"I got one of her pictures with her young master's kids--three of 'em--in there with her. Anybody
that bothered that picture would git in it with me, 'cause I values it.

"Mother farmed right after the surrender. She married after freedom but went back to her old
name when her husband left. He was named Richard Hill. He was supposed to be a bishop down
there in Arkadelphia. But he wasn't no bishop with mama. All them Hills in Arkadelphia are
kin to me. She had four children--one boy and three girls. The boy died before I was born.
She was just married the one time that I know about.

"Her white folks were good to her. You know there was so many of them that weren't. And you
know they bound to be because they were always good to her. They would be looking for her and
sending her something to eat and sending her shoes and clothes and things like that, and she'd
go to them and stay with them months at a time so they bound to 've been good to her. All the
young kids always called her their Black Mammy. They thought a heap of her. That is since freedom.
Since I been born. That is somethin' I seen with my own eyes.

"I spect my mother's white folks is mad at me. They come to see her just before she died and
they knew she couldn't live long. They told me to let them know when there was a chance.

"That was about three days before she died. There come a storm. It broke down the wire so we
couldn't let them know. My boy was too small; I couldn't send him. He was only nine years old.
And you know how it is out in the country, you can't keep them long. You have to put them away.
You can't keep no dead person in the country. So I had to bury her without letting 'em know it.

"I do laundry work for a living when I can get any to do. I am living with my boy but I do
laundry work to help myself. It is so good, and nice to kinda help yourself. I'll do for self
as long as I am able and when I can't, the children can help me more. I have heard and seen
so many mothers whose children would do things for them and it wouldn't suit so well up the
road. You see me hopping along; I'm trying to work for Annie.

"My mother told me about seein' the pateroles before the War and the Ku Klux Klan afterwards.
She knowed them all right. She never talked much about the pateroles. It was mostly the Ku
Klux. Neither of them never got after her. She said the Ku Klux used to come in by droves.
She said the Ku Klux were dressed all in white--white caps and white hoods over their faces,
and long white dresses. They come out mostly at night. They never did bother her, but they
bothered others 'round her that she knowed about. Sometimes they would take people out and
beat them and do 'round with them. But she never did know just what it was they did and just
what they did it for. You see, her white folks was particular and didn't talk much before her.
So many colored folks learnt things because they eavesdropped their white folks, but mother
didn't do that. She didn't learn nothin' but what they talked before her, and they were careful.
But they protected her. They never did allow nobody to bother her no way.

"She was a Baptist. She belonged to the white folks' church before she was freed. Then she
joined the Methodist church at Benton because there wasn't no other church there. But she was
a full-blood Baptist."

  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Clark Hill
                      715 E. 17th Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 82

"Good morning. My name is Clark Hill. My name goes by my white folks. I was born in Georgia--in
Americus, Georgia. My old master was Will G. Hill and they called my young master Bud. I never
did know what his name was--they just called him Bud.

"It was my job to sweep the yard, keep smoke on the meat and fire under the kiln. Yes mam!
Old master had a big orchard and he dried all the fruit in the kiln--peaches, apples, and pears.
Then he had lots a watermelons too. When they got ripe they'd get all the childun big enough
to tote a melon and we'd carry 'em to the house. I would like to be with my white folks now.

"Old master raised pigeons too and it used to be my job to go down to the pigeon house and
ketch the squalls (squabs).

"I used to go to church with my white folks too. I was the gate opener. They put me on the
little seat at the back of the carriage. When we got there they'd let us childun sit in the
back. The preacher would tell us to obey our master and not take anything that belonged to him.

"Oh, my white folks was good to me. He never hit me but once and that was one time when my
brother went into the kitchen, went into some peas the cook had and she told on him. Old master
come down and told my brother to eat the whole dish full. He never hit him or nothin' but just
stood there and made him eat 'em. I thought I'd help him out a little and said to my brother,
'Give me some.' Old master just took his walking stick and hit me over the head, and that's
the onliest time he ever hit me.

"When you got big enough to marry and was courtin' a woman on another plantation, you couldn't
bring her home with you. Old master would marry you. He'd say 'I give this man to you' and
say 'Clark, I give this woman to you and now you is man and wife.' They never had no book of
matrimony--if they did I never seen it. Then you could go over to see her every Saturday and
stay all night.

"I used to work in the field. They didn't farm then like they do now. They planted one row
a cotton and one row a corn. That was to keep the land from gettin' poor.

"I remember when the Yankees was comin' through I got scared because some of the folks said
they had horns. I know old master took all his meat and carried it to another plantation.

"When freedom come old master give us all our ages. I think when they say we was free that
meant every man was to be his own boss and not be bossed by a taskmaster. Cose old master was
good to us but we wanted to have our own way 'bout a heap a things.

"I come to Arkansas the second year of surrender. Yes'm, I voted when Clayton was sheriff and
I voted for Governor Baxter. I voted several tickets. I was here when they had the Brooks-Baxter
War. They fit not far from where I was livin'.

"Well, that's 'bout all I can remember. My mind ain't so good now and I got the rheumatism
in my legs." I was eleven.

"Born in Georgia--Americus, Georgia. Used to go with my young master to Corinth after the mail.
We'd ride horseback with me right behind him. He used to carry me to church too on the back
seat to open the gates.

"They worked me in the loom room too. Had to hold the broche at the reel. I was glad when my
young master called me out to go after the mail. Then they worked me in the smokehouse.

"I never had no schoolin' a tall. What little I know I learned since I married. My wife was
a good scholar.

"I thank the Lord he spared me. Eighty-four is pretty old.

"I come here to Pine Bluff in '66. Wasn't no town here then. Just some little shacks on Barraque.
And Third Street was called Catfish Street.

"They was fifty carloads come here to Arkansas when I come.

"I've farmed mostly. Then I've cooked four or five years in railroad camps, when they was puttin'
in this Cotton Belt track. Then I've cooked on a steamboat.

"Yes ma'am, I've voted. I voted teeth and toe-nail for one man, and he got it and then they
shot him down. He was about to get on to the fraud. He was 'testin' the election. That was
John M. Clayton. They can do most anything in these here elections. I know 'cause I done been
in so many campaigns."

FOLKLORE SUBJECTS

  #665
  Name of interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Subject: Humorous Story
  Story--Information (If not enough space on this page, add page)

"I heard a story 'bout a old colored man named Tony. It was in slave times and he was prayin'
to the Lord to take him out of bondage. He was prayin', 'Oh Lord, come and take poor old Tony
away.' Just then somebody started knockin' and Tony says, 'Who'd dat?' 'It's the Lord, I come
to take you away.' Then Tony said, 'No! No! Don't take me away. I ain't ready to go.'"

"If a squinch owl starts howlin' 'round your house and if you turn your shoe upside down at
the door, they sure will hush. Now I know that's so.

"I used to run myself nearly to death tryin' to get to the end of the rainbow to get the pot
of gold.

"And I've heard the old folks say if you start any place and have to go back, you make a circle
on the ground and spit in it or you'll have bad luck." Accordin' to what they tell me, I think
I'll be ninety-eight the ninth day of February. I was born in Virginia in Kinsale County and
sold from my mother and father to Arkansas.

"The Lord would have it, old man Ed Lindsey come to Virginia and brought me here to Arkansas.
I was here four years before the Old War ceasted and I was twelve when I come here.

"I was right there standin' behind my mistis' chair when Abe Lincoln said, 'I 'clare there
shall be war!' I was right here in Arkansas--eighteen miles from Pine Bluff when war ceasted.
The Lord would have it. I had a good master and mistis. Old master said, 'Fore old Lincoln
shall free my niggers, I'll free em myself.' They might as well a been free, they had a garden
and if they raised cotton in that garden they could sell it. The Lord bless His Holy Name!
We didn't know the difference when we got free. I stayed with my mistis till she went back
to Virginia.

"Yes, honey, I was here in all the war. I was standin' right by my mistis' chair. I never heard
old master make a oaf in his life, but when they brought the paper freein' the slaves, he said,
'Dad burn it.'

"I member a man called Jeff Davis. I know they sung and said, 'We'll hand old Jeff Davis to
the sour apple tree.'

"I been here a long time. Yes, honey, I been in Arkansas so long I say I ain't goin' out--they
got to bury me here. Arkansas dirt good enough for me. I say I been here so long I got Arkansas
'stemper (distemper).

"My old master in Virginia was Joe Hudson. My father used to ketch oysters and fish. We could
look up the Patomac river and see the ships comin' in. In Virginia I lived next to a free state
and the runaways was tryin' to get away. At Harper's Ferry--that's where old John Brown was
carryin' em across. My old mistis used to take the runaway folks when the dogs had bit their
legs, and keep em for a week and cure em up. This time o' year you could hear the bull whip.
But I was lucky, they was good to me in Virginia and good to me in Arkansas.

"Yes, chile, I was in Alexandria, Virginia in Kinsale County when they come after me by night.
I was hired out to Captain Jim Allen. I had been nursin' for Captain Allen. He sailed on the
sea. He was a good man. He was a Christian man. He never whipped me but once and that was for
tellin' a story, and I thank him for it. He landed his boat right at the landin' on Saturday.
Next day he asked me bout somethin' and I told him a story. He said, 'I'm gwine whip you Monday
morning!' He wouldn't whip me on Sunday. He whipped me and I thank him for it. And to this
day the Lindsey's could trust me with anything they had.

"I was in Virginia a play-chile when the ships come down to get the gopher wood to build the
war ships. Old mistis had a son and a daughter and we all played together and slep together.
My white folks learned me my A B C's.

"They come and got me and carried me to Richmond--that's where they sold em. Sold five of us
in one bunch. Sold my two brothers in New Orleans--Robert and Jesse. Never seed them no more.
Never seed my mother again after I was sold.

"Yes, chile, I was here in Arkansas when the war started, so you know I been here a long time.

"I was here when they fit the last battle in Pine Bluff. They called it Marmaduke's Battle
and they fit it on Sunday morning. They took the old cotehouse for a battery and throwed up
cotton bales for a breastworks. They fit that Sunday and when the Yankees started firin' the
Rebels went back to Texas or wherever they come from.

"When we heard the Yankees was comin' we went out at night and hid the silver spoons and silver
in the toilet and buried the meat. After the war was over and the Yankees had gone home and
the jayhawkers had went in--then we got the silver and the meat. Yes, honey, we seed a time--we
seed a time. I ain't grumblin'--I tell em I'm havin' a wusser time now than I ever had.

"Yankees used to call me a 'know nothin' cause I wouldn't tell where things was hid.

"Yes, chile, I'm this way--I like everbody in this world. I never was a mother, but I raised
everbody else's chillun. I ain't nothin' but a old mammy. White and black calls me mamma. I'll
answer at the name.

"I was married twice. My last husband and me lived together fifty years. He was a preacher.
My first husband, the old rascal--he was so mean to me I had to get rid of him.

"Yes, I been here so long. I think the younger generation is goin' the downward way. They ain't
studyin' nothin' but wickedness. Yes, honey, they tell me the future generation is goin' a
do this and goin' a do that, and they ain't done nothin'. And God don't like it.

"My white folks comes to see me and say as long as they got bread, I got it.

"I went to school the second year after surrender. I can read but I ain't got no glasses now.
I want you to see this letter my mother sent me in 1867. My baby sister writ it. Yes, honey,
I keeps it for remembrance.

"Don't know nothin' funny that happened 'ceptin stealin' my old master's company's hoss and
runnin' a race. White chillun too. Them as couldn't ride sideways ridin' straddle. Better not
ride Rob Roy--that was old master's ridin' hoss and my mistis saddle hoss. That was the hoss
he was talkin' bout ridin' to the war when the last battle was fit in Helena. But he was too
old to go to war.

"Well, goodbye, honey--if I don't see you no more, come across the Jordan."

  #787
  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: Gillie Hill
                      813 Arch Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: About 45

"My grandmother told me that they had to chink up the cracks so that the light wouldn't get
out and do their washing and ironing at night. When they would hear the overseers or the paterolers
coming 'round (I don't know which it was), they would put the light out and keep still till
they had passed on. Then they would go right on with the washing and ironing.

"They would have to wash and iron at night because they were working all day.

"She told me how they used to turn pots down at night so that they could pray. They had big
pots then--big enough for you to get into yourself. I've seen some of them big old pots and
got under 'em myself. You could get under one and pray if you wanted to. You wouldn't have
to prop them up to send your voice in 'em from the outside. The thing that the handle hooks
into makes them tilt up on one side so that you could get down on your hands and knees and
pray with your mouth close to the opening if you wanted to. Anyway, my grandma said they would
turn the pots upside down and stick their heads under them to pray.

"My father could make you cry talking about the way they treated folks in slavery times. He
said his old master was so mean that he made him eat off the ground with the dogs. He never
felt satisfied unless'n he saw a nigger sufferin'."

Interviewer's Comment

Gillie Hill is the daughter of Evelyn Jones already interviewed and reported. The few statements
which she hands in make an interesting supplement to her mother's story. The mother, Evelyn
Jones, remembered very few things in her interview and had to be constantly prompted and helped
by her daughter and son who were present at each sitting. There was considerable difference
of opinion among them over a number of things, especially the age of the mother, the daughter
showing letters to prove the age of seventy, the mother saying she had been told she was sixty-eight,
and the son arguing that the scattering of the ages of her nineteen children showed that she
must be well over eighty.

Gillie Hill claims to be somewhat clairvoyant. She gave a brief analysis of my character, stating
accurately my regular calling and a few of my personal traits even indicating roughly my bringing-up
and where. She is not a professional fortune-teller, and merely ventured a few statements.
My impression was that she was an unusually close and alert observer. Like her mother she is
somewhat taciturn. I should have said that her mother was reserved as well as forgetful. The
mother never ventured a word except in answer to a question, and used monosyllabic answers
whenever possible.

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person Interviewed: Harriett Hill
                      Forrest City, Ark.
                      (Visiting at Brinkley, Ark.)
  Age: 84

"I was born in Lithonia, Georgia, at the foot of Little Rock Mountain, close to Stone Mountain,
Georgia. I been sold in my life twice to my knowing. I was sold away from my dear old mammy
at three years old but I can remember it. I remembers it. It lack selling a calf from the cow.
Exactly, but we are human beings and ought to be better than do sich. I was too little to remember
my price. I was sold to be a nurse maid. They bought me and took me on away that time. The
next time they put me up in a wagon and auctioned me off. That time I didn't sell. John George
(white man) was in the war; he wanted some money to hire a substitute to take his place fightin'.
So he have Jim George do the sellin'. They was brothers. They talked 'fore me some bit 'fore
they took me off. They wouldn't take me to Atlanta cause they said some of the people there
said they wouldn't give much price--the Negroes soon be set free. Some folks in Atlanta was
Yankees and wouldn't buy slaves. They 'cluded the best market to sell me off would be ten or
twelve miles from home. I reckon it was to Augusta, Georgia. They couldn't sell me and start
on back home. A man come up to our wagon and say he'd split the difference. They made the trade.
I sold on that spot for $1400. I was nine or ten years old. I remembers it. Course I do! I
never could forget it. Now mind you, that was durin' the war.

"Master Jake Chup owned mammy and me too. He sold me to John George. Jim George sold me to
Sam Broadnax. When freedom come on that was my home. Freedom come in the spring. He got some
of the slaves to stay to finish up the crops for 1/10 at Christmas. When they got through dividin'
up they said they goin' to keep me for a bounty. I been talkin' to Kitty--all I remembers her
name Kitty. She been down there at the stream washin'. Some children come told me Kitty say
come on. She hung out the clothes. I lit out over the fence and through the field with Kitty
and went to Conniars. She left me at the railroad track and went on down the road by myself
to Lithonia. I walked all night. I met my brother not long after Kitty left me. He was on a
wagon. He knowed me and took me up with him to Mr. Jake Chup's Jr. He was the young man. Then
Chups fed me till he come back and took me to mammy. Master Chups sold her to Dr. Reygans.
I hadn't seen her since I was three years old. She knowed me. My brother knowed me soon as
ever he saw me. I might a not knowed them in a gatherin' but I hadn't forgot them. They hear
back and forth where I be but they never could get to see me. I lived with my folks till I married.

"The first man I lived with ten years. The next one I lived with fifty years and some days
over. He died. They both died. The man I married was a preacher. We farmed long with his preachin'.
We paid $500.00 for forty acres of this bottom land. Cleared it out. I broke myself plum down
and it got mortgaged. The Planters Bank at Forrest City took it over. I ain't had nothin' since.
I ain't got no home. I ain't had nothin' since then. My husband died two years ago and I has
a hard time.

"My folks was livin' in Decatur, Georgia when the Ku Klux was ragin'. We sure was scared of
em. Mighty nigh to death. When freedom come on the niggers had to start up their churches.
They had nigger preachers. Sometimes a white preacher would come talk to us. When the niggers
be havin' preachin' here come the Ku Klux and run em clear out. If they hear least thing nigger
preacher say they whoop him. They whooped several. They sure had to be mighty particular what
they said in the preachin'. They made some of the nigger preachers dance. There wasn't no use
of that and they knowed it. They must of had plenty fun. They rode the country every night
for I don't know how long and that all niggers talked bout.

"My mammy had eleven children. I had one boy. He died a baby.

"My pa come and brought his family in 1873. He come with a gang. They didn't allow white men
to take em off so a white man come and stay round shy and get nigger man to work up a gang.
We all come on a train to Memphis, then we got on a big boat. No, ma'am, we didn't come on
no freight train. We got off at White Hall Landing. They got off all long the river. We worked
on wages out here. Pa wanted to go to Mississippi. We went and made eighteen bales cotton and
got cheated out of all we made. We never got a cent. The man cheated us was Mr. Harris close
to Trotter's Landing.

"Mr. Anderson, the poor white man we worked for, jumped in the river and drowned his self.
The turns (returns) didn't come in for the first batch we sold at all, then when the turns
come they said we done took it up--owed it all. We knowed we hadn't took it up but couldn't
get nothin'. We come back to Arkansas.

"I been to Detroit, short time, and been way, but I comes back.

"I forgot to say this: My mammy was born in South Carolina. Marbuts owned her and sold her.
My pa lived to be 114 or 115 years old. He died in Arkansas. She did too.

"Of course I don't vote! Women ain't got no business runnin' the government!

"I nursed, worked in the field. When I was a slave they raised a little cotton in Georgia but
mostly corn. I chopped cotton and thinned out corn.

"The present times is too fast. Somethin' goin' to happen. The present generation too fast.
Folks racin'. Ridin' in cars too fast. They ain't kind no more.

"I rent a house where I can and I get $10.00 from the government. That all the support I got.
I farmed in the field mighty hard and lost all we had."

  MAY 11 1938
  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Hattie Hill
                      Route 2, Main Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 85

"Yes ma'am, I was raised a house gal. Me and another cousin and I was borned in Georgia. My
old master's name was Edward Maddox. Yes ma'am.

"I had a good master but I didn't have such a good missis. Her name was Fannie Maddox. We belonged
to the old man and he was good to his niggers. He didn't 'low 'em to be cut and slashed about.
But when he was gone that's when old mis' would beat on us.

"I've seen a many a one of the soldiers. They used to march by our place.

"I can remember one of my old missis' neighbors. Her name was Miss Phipps. Old mis' would send
me there to borry meal. Yes ma'am, I'd go and come. She'd always send me. I met the soldiers
a many a time. I'd hide behind a tree and as they'd go by I'd go 'round the tree--I was so scared.

"But thank the Lawd, we is free now.

"I heered old master pray a many a prayer that he would live to see his slaves sot free. And
he died the same year they was sot free. He sent for all his hands to come and see him 'fore
he died. Even the little chillun. I can remember it jus' as well as if 'twas yesterday. Old
mis' died 'fore he did.

"Our folks stayed on the place two years. Old master told 'em he wanted 'em to take care of
themselves and said, 'I want you to get you a place of your own.' He said, 'I raised you honest
and I want you to stay on the place as long as you live or as long as the boys treat you right.'

"I seed the patrollers all right. I 'member that old song 'Run Nigger Run' and a heap of 'em
run too.

"Them Ku Klux was hateful too, but they never bothered my father's house. They beat one man--Steve
McLaughlin--till he couldn't get back to the house. They beat him from the soles of his feet
to the top of his head.

"We had a plenty to eat in slave times. They fed us good. I never did work in the field--I
was raised up a house gal.

"After freedom my father had me in the field.

"I used to cut and split a many a hundred rails in a day and didn't mind it neither.

"I used to like to work--would work now if I was able. And I'd rather work in the field any
day as work in the house. The people where I lived can tell you how I worked. I didn't make
my living by rascality. I worked like my father raised me. Oh, I haven't forgot how my old
father raised me.

"Never went to school but one day in my life. I can't read.

"I didn't come to Arkansas till after I was free. I been livin' here so long I can't tell you
how many years.

"I married young and I'm the mother of six chillun.

"I think a heap of the colored folks is better off free, but a heap of 'em don't appreciate
their freedom.

"Heap of the younger generation is all right and then they's a heap of 'em all wrong.

"I can't remember nothin' else 'cause I was too young then and I'm too old now."

  OCT 18 19--
  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Oliver Hill
                      1101 Kentucky Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 94

Oliver Hill is ninety-four years old, erect, walks briskly with the aid of a cane, only slightly
hard of hearing and toothless.

He was born and lived in the state of Mississippi on the plantation of Alan Brooks where he
said his father was an overseer and not a slave. Said his mother was a full-blooded Indian.
(I have never talked to a Negro who did not claim to be part Indian.) He cannot read or write
and made rather conflicting statements about the reason why. "White folks wouldn't let us learn."
Later on in the conversation he said he went to school about one month when his "eyes got sore
and they said he didn't have to go no more."

"I was nineteen years old when de wa' begun. De white folks never tole us nothin' 'bout what
it was fo' till after de surrender. Dey tole us then we was free. They didn't give us nothin'."

After the surrender most of the slaves left the plantations and were supported by the Bureau.
In the case of Oliver Hill, this lasted five months and then he went back to his former master
who gave him one-fifth of what he made working in the field. Alan Brooks grieved for the loss
of his slaves but at no time were they under any compulsion to remain slaves. After a long
time about half of them came back to work for pay.

The Ku Klux Klan was "de devil", but about all they wanted, according to Oliver, was to "make
a Democrat" of the ex-slaves. They were allowed to vote without any trouble, but "de Democrats
robbed de vote. Yes'm I knowed they did."

Concerning the present restricted suffrage, he thinks the colored people should be allowed
to vote. In general, his attitude toward the white people is one of resentment. Frequent comments
were:

"Dey won't let de colored people bury in de same cemetery with de white people."

"Dey don't like it if a colored man speak to a white woman."

"Dey kill a colored man and de law don't do nothin' 'bout it."

"Old Man Brooks" when referring to his former master.

He lived with the Brooks family for five years after freedom, and seems to have been rather
a favored one with not much to do but "ride around" and going to dances and parties at night.
When Alan Brooks died he left Oliver $600 in cash, a cow and calf, horse, saddle and bridle
and two hogs. He went to live with his father taking his wife whom he had married at the age
of twenty-one.

As soon as the inheritance was gone, the scene changed. In his words, "I thought it gwine last
forever." But it didn't and then he began to hold a succession of jobs--field hand, sorghum
maker, basket weaver, gardener and railway laborer--until he was too old to work. Now he is
supported by the Welfare Department and the help a daughter and granddaughter can give.

About the younger generation--"I don't know what gwine come of 'em. The whites is as bad as
the blacks." He thinks that present conditions are caused by the sinfulness of the people.

There were no slave uprisings but sometimes when they did not work fast enough or do the task
right, they were "whupped" by the overseer and given no food until it was done right.

Oliver came to Arkansas in 1910. He has had two wives and "de Lawd took both of 'em." His second
wife was "'ligious" and they "got along fine." All in all he had a good time during his active
days "and didn't have no trouble with de white folks". He does not believe God ever intended
some of the people to be slaves. It was close to the Fulton Road to Houston, Mississippi. My
folks belong to C. B. Baldwin. After 'mancipation papa stop calling himself Jacob Baldwin and
called himself Jacob Brown in his own pa's name. Mama was named Catherine Brown. The same man
owned them both. They had twelve children. They lost a child born in 1866. I had two brothers
sent to Louisiana as refugees. The place they was sent to was taken by the Yankees and they
was taken and the Yankees made soldiers out of them. Charlie died in 1922 in Mobile, Alabama
and Lewis after the War joined the United States army. I never saw any grandparents. Mama was
born in Baltimore and her mother was born there too as I understood them to say. Mama's father
was a white Choctaw Indian. He was a cooper by trade. His name was John Abbot. He sold Harriett,
my grandma, and kept mama and her brother. Then he married a white woman and had a white family.
Her brother died. That left her alone to wait on that white family. They cut her hair off.
She hated that. She loved her long straight black hair. Then her papa, John Abbot (Abbott?),
died. Her brother run off and was leaving on a ship on the Potomac River. A woman lost her
trunk. They was fishing for it and found mama's brother drowned. He had fell overboard too.

"Mama took a bucket on her arm to keep the stealers from gagging her. She knowed if she had
a bucket or basket they would not bother, they would know she went out on turn (errand) and
would be protected. They didn't bother her then. She went down to the nigger trader's yard
to talk awhile but she was making her way off then. Sometimes she went down to the yard to
laugh and talk with some she knowed down there. She said them stealers would kill 'em and insect
(dissect) 'em. But they didn't get her. But might as well, Jim Williams owned that nigger yard.
He put her on a sailboat named Big Humphries. She was on there hard sailing, she said, twenty-four
days and nights. Jim Williams stole her! On that sailboat is where she seen my papa. When they
got to New Orleans a white man from Baltimore was passing. He seen my mama. He ask her about
her papers. She told him she had been stole. He said without papers Jim Williams couldn't sell
her. He told Jim Williams he better not sell that woman. Jim Williams knowed she was crazy
about my papa. He hired him out and ask her if she wanted to go with him. He got pay for both
of them hired out. It was better for him than if he owned her. When they had two children,
Jim Williams come back out to Chambers County, Alabama where he had them hired out. He ask
her if he would agree to let him sell her. He was going to sell papa and the two children.
She said she had seen them whooped to death in the yards because they didn't want to be sold.
She was scared to contrary him. She had nobody to take her part. So she let him sell her with
papa and the two children. Jim Williams sold her and papa and the two children to Billy Gates
of Mississippi. Jim Williams said, 'Don't never separate Henry and Hannah 'cause I don't have
the papers for Hannah.' Then they lived in the prairies eighteen miles from Houston, where
Billy Gates lived. Mama done well. She worked and they treated her nice. Eight of us was born
on that place includin' me.

"I was raised up in good living conditions and kept myself so till twelve years ago this next
August this creeping neuritis (paralasis) come on. I raised my niece. I cooked, washed and
ironed, and went to the field in field time.

"Master Billy Gates' daughter married Cyrus Brisco Baldwin. He was a lawyer. He give mama,
papa and one child to them. Master Billy Gates' daughter died and left Miss Bessie. Mr. C. B.
Baldwin married again. He went to war in the 'Six Day Crowd.' Miss Bessie Baldwin married Bill
Buchannan at Okolona, Mississippi. Mama went and cooked for her. They belong to her. She was
good as she could be to her and papa both. One time the overseer was going to whip them both.
Miss Bessie said, 'Tell Mr. Carrydine to come and let us talk it over.' They did and she said,
'Give Mr. Carrydine his breakfast and let him go.' They never got no whippings.

"Mama was white as any white woman and papa was my color (light mulatto). After freedom they
lived as long as they lived at Houston and Okolona, Mississippi. She said she left Maryland
in 1839.

"Some blue dressed Yankees come to our shack and told mama to bake him some bread. I held to
her dress. She baked them some. They put it in their nap sacks. That was my first experience
seeing the Yankees.

"They come back and come back on and on. One time they come back hunting the silverware. They
didn't find it. It was in the old seep well. The slaves wasn't going to tell them where it
was. We washed out of the seep well and used the cistern water to drink. It was good silver.
They put it in sacks, several of them, to make it strong. Uncle Giles drapped it down in there.
He was old colored man we all called Uncle Giles. He was no kin to me. He was good as could
be. I loved him. Me and his girl played together all the time. Her name was Roxana. We built
frog houses in the sand and put cool sand on our stomachs. We would lie under big trees and
watch and listen to the birds.

"When Mr. Billy Gates died they give Henry, my youngest brother, to his son, John Gates. Henry,
a big strong fellow, could raise a bale of cotton over his head.

"One time the Yankees come took the meat and twenty-five cows and the best mules. They left
some old plugs. They had two mares in fold. Uncle Giles told them one mare had buck-eye poison
and the other distemper. They left them in their stalls. We had to tote all that stuff they
give out back when they was gone. All they didn't take off they handed out to the slaves. There
was some single men didn't carry their provisions back to the smokehouse. Everybody else did.
They kept on till they swept us all out of victuals. The slaves had shacks up on the hill.
There was six or eight pretty houses all met. Mr. Gates' house was one of them.

"Freedom--Capt. Gehu come and sent for all the slaves to come to Mr. John Gates. We all met
there. He said it was free times now. We lived on and raised peas, corn, pumpkins, potatoes.
The Yankees come and took off some of it. That was the year of the surrender. Mama moved off
the hill in a man's home what moved to town to look after the house for them. It was across
the road from Master John Gates' house. We worked for the Gates a long, long time after that.
We worked for the Baldwins and around till the old heads all dead. I come to Clarendon, Arkansas,
eleven o'clock, eleventh of May 1890. I have no children. I raised my sister's baby. She died.
I live wid her now. She's got grandchildren. I get ten dollars from the Welfare a month. I
buy what I needs to eat with it. I helps out a sight. I had a baby girl. It died an infant.

"The place they refugeed Charlie and Lewis was to Opelousas, Louisiana. It was about the first
part of the country the Yankees took.

"Ku Klux--They never bothered us but in 1876 I seen them pass. My nephew was a little boy.
He said when they passed there was Jack Slaughter on his horse. He knew the big horse. They
went on. The colored men had left their wives and children at home and went up to Red Bud Church
(colored). We seen five pass but others joined on. They had bad times. A colored man killed
a Ku Klux named Tom Middlebrook. One man got his foot cut off wid a ax. Some called them 'white
caps.' I was scared of whatever they called theirselves.

"The younger set of folks seems more restless than they used to be. I noticed that since the
last war (World War). They ain't never got settled. The women is bad as the men now it seems.
Times is better than I ever had them in my life."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Tanny Hill
                      Brinkley, Arkansas
  Age: 56? No record of age

"'Uncle Solomon' we all called him but he wasn't no kin to us, he was the funniest old man
I ever heard tell of. He was a slave. He belong to Sorrel Crockell I heard him say. He didn't
go to no war.

"When the War ended he was a fisherman in Arkansas. He used to tie his own self to a tree keep
the fish from pulling him in the river. He caught big fish in the early times. He'd come to
our house when I was nothing but a child and bring 'nough fish for all our supper. Ma would
cook 'em. Pa would help him scale 'em. We'd love to see him come. He lived thater way from
house to house.

"One time he made me mad. I never had no more use for him. We'd give him tomatoes and onions.
He told us to go bring him thater watermelon out of the garden. He cut and eat it before us.
Never give us a bite. He was saying, 'You goiner get your back and belly beat black and blue.'
I didn't know what he was saying. Grandma found the watermelon was gone. I owned up to it.
Ma got switches and whooped us. I was singing what he was saying. Grandma tole me what he meant.
From that on we had no more of his good fish."

Interviewer's Comment

Large, medium black.

  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: Elizabeth Hines
                      1117 W. Fourteenth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: 70

"I was born January 10, 1868, in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. I came here. I can't read or write.
My brother-in-law told me that I was born three years after the War on January tenth.

"My mother's name was Sara Cloady. My father's name was Square Cloady. I don't remember the
names of any of my grand people. Yes I do; my father's mother was named Bertha because I called
my daughter after her. She must have been in the Square family because that was his name.

"I had four brothers and sisters. Three of them I don't know anything about. I have never seen
them. My sister, Rachael Fortune, suckled me on her breast. That is her married name. Before
she was married her name was Rachael Bennett. Her father and mine was not the same. We was
just half-sisters. We have the same mother though. My father was half Indian and hers was pure-blooded
Indian. They are all mean folks. People say I am mean too, but I am not mean--unless they lie
on me or something. My mother died when I was three years old. Children three years old didn't
have as much sense then as they do now. I didn't know my mother was laid out until I got to
be a woman. I didn't have sense enough to know she was dead. My sister was crying and we asked
her what she was crying about.

"I don't know the name of my mother's old master. Yes I do, my mother's old master was named
Laycock. He had a great big farm. He was building a gas house so that he could have a light
all night and work niggers day and night, but peace came before he could get it finished and
use it. God took a hand in that thing. I have seen the gas house myself. I used to tote water
home from there in a bucket. It was cool as ice-water. The gas house was as big 'round as that
market there (about a half block).

"My father served in the army three years and died at the age of one hundred ten years about
twenty years ago as near as I can remember. That is the reason I left home because he died.
He served in the War three years. He was with the Yankees. Plenty of these old white folks
will know him by the name of Square Cloady. The name of his company was Company E. I don't
know the name of his regiment. He got his pension as long as he lived. His last pension came
just before he died. I turned it back to the courthouse because it is bad to fool with Uncle
Sam. They wrote for my name but when I told them I was married they wouldn't send me anything.
I didn't know to tell them that my husband was dead.

"I was married when I was about twenty-seven and my husband died more than three years before
my father did. My father lived to see me the mother of my last child; my husband didn't. When
my husband was dying, I couldn't see my toes. I was pregnant. My husband died in the year of
the great tornado. The time all the churches were blown down. I think it was about 1915. (Storm
time in Louisiana.)

"I don't know what my mother did in slavery. I don't think she did anything but cook. She was
fine in children and they buys women like that you know. My sister was a water toter. My father
raised cotton and corn and hogs and turkeys. His trade was farming before the War. I don't
know how he happened to get in the army but he was in it three years." [HW: cf. p. 3]

House, Furniture and Food

"Laycock's farm was out in the country about four miles from Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Some of
the slaves lived in log houses and some in big old boxed houses. Most of them had two rooms.
They had nothing but four post beds and chairs like this I am settin' down in (a little cane
chair). I reckon it is cane--looks like it is. They had homemade chairs before the War, boxes,
and benches. The boards were often bought. But nothing else.

"They et greens and pickled pork. My father got tired of that and he would raise hogs. Pickled
pork and corn bread!

"My father never told me what his master was to him, whether he was good or mean. He got free
early because he was in the army. He didn't run away. The soldiers came and got him and carried
him off and trained him. [HW: cf. p. 2] I just know what my father told me because I wasn't
born. He served his full time and then he was discharged. He got an honorable discharge. He
had a wound in the leg where he was shot.

"I got along all right supporting myself by planting cotton until last year when the doctor
stopped me.

"I took care of my father and the Lord is taking care of me. I am weak and still have that
giddy head but not as bad as I used to have it."

Opinions

"Some of the young people do very well but some of them ain't got no manners and don't care
what they do. I am scared for them. The Man above ain't scared and he is going to cut them down."

FOLKLORE SUBJECTS

  Pine Bluff District
  Name of interviewer: Martin--Barker
  Subject: Ex-Slave
  Story:

"Son of Martha and Peter Hinton. Came from N.C. about 12 years ago, at close of Civil War.
Mother had nine children, she belonged to Mr. Sam Hinton.

"At close of war mistis called us to her, said we were free and could go. So we went away for
about a year, but came back. Sorry we were free.

"We saw about 2000 soldiers. Never went to school. Went to white church on plantation. White
preachers said, servants, obey your marster. I was valued at $800.00.

"When I was a small boy I lay at marsters feet and he would let us play with his feet. He always
had shiny shoes and we niggers would keep rubbing them so they would shine more. As I grew
older, I cleaned the yard, later helped pick cotton.

"I am a Baptist. Have behaved myself. Have prayer meeting at my home.

"During the war we had prayer meetings at the different houses on the plantations. We prayed
to be set free. Turned wash pots down in the house to keep the sound down so white folks wouldn't
hear us singing and praying to be set free.

"Overseer would whip neggers when out of humor. Miss Mary would always tell them not to mistreat
her help.

"Times were so hard during slave times, white marster took them into the bottoms and hid them,
so they wouldn't run off with the Yankee soldiers.

"Talk of war got so hot, brought us out of the woods and put us in wagons and took us and de
older people off to Texas.

"We got up at 4 AM, work all day until 9 or 10 at night. On Sunday we worked if it was necessary.

"I was tough and strong. I could outrun a wild animal, barefooted and bare headed.

"We would have a country dance once in awhile. Someone would play the banjo.

"Miss Mary, white mistis called us all in one day and opened a large trunk. She showed us money,
gold and silver, saying that we had all helped to make it for them. Thats the first money I
ever saw.

"Before Christmas we killed hogs.

"Our white folks didn't like any one wearing blue clothes. Thought they were Yankees, and that
meant freedom for us niggers. Men in blue clothes came and put a rope around my marsters neck,
took him all around the nigger cabins and asked where he hid them. He told them, Texas. They
said, get them and free them or they would hang him.

"He sent after them and everything was alright.

"I though my white marster was God. He took sick and died.

"I heard the other slaves saying he committed suicide because he had lost all his money.

"In those times my father saw my mother, decided he wanted her for his woman. He tol his white
folks and they fixed up a cabin for them to live in together. Was no ceremony. Had nigger midwives
for babies.

"I knows every lucky silver pieces of money. I believe in lucky pieces of silver. I is a dreamer,
always been dat way. I have seen my bright days ahead of me, in dreams and visions. If I hears
a woman's voice calling me, a calling me in my sleep I is bound to move outa dat house. I dont
keer wher I goes, I is got to go some whars."

  Information by: Charles Hinton
  Place of residence: RFD 5 Old riv. Rd.
  Occupation:
  Age: 83

  Interviewer: Bernice Bowden.
  Person interviewed: Charlie Hinton (c)
  Age: 89
  Home: Old River Road--Pine Bluff, Ark.

"Oh Lordy, lady, I was pickin' cotton durin' the war. I was here before the first gun was fired.
When the war came they sent my mother and father and all the other big folks to Texas and left
us undergrowth here to make a crop.

"My mother's name was Martha and my father was named Peter Hinton. Now I'm just goin' to tell
you everything--I'm not ashamed. I've got the marks of slavery on me. My old marster and Miss
Mary, they was good to me, but the old cook woman throwed me off the porch and injured my back.
I ain't never been able to walk just right since.

"Now, here's what I remember. Our marster, we thought he was God.

