     "It is, of course, impossible to dogmatise without conclusive
     evidence."--Times.

You should hear our curate.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A NONENTITY.

He was a tramp, a mere tramp, clearly a man of no importance to you or me or anyone else in
the world. The evening was warm, the place secluded and remote, and, other things being equal,
he climbed over the hedge, chose a comfortable position against a haystack, pulled from his
pocket a fragment of a newspaper and a fragment of a pipe and settled down.

A tramp, the merest tramp, seven miles from anywhere, sitting in a field smoking a pipe and
reading a newspaper--what can such a one matter to the world at large?

The portion of the newspaper was that containing the law reports, not a prime favourite with
the tramp. The lengthy report which had squeezed out other matter that might have been worth
reading was a proceeding before the Lords of Appeal, in which Sir Rupert Bingley, K.C., M.P.,
was being very explicit and very firm about the exact limitations of the power of the Divisional
Court to commit for contempt. This was hardly fit matter for the reading of a young and susceptible
tramp, our man was telling himself, when the name of a district which he had once traversed
cropped up in the case and caught his wandering attention.

The spot in question was on the wild Welsh border, and it was at a remote farm thereabouts
that the trouble first began over which their Lordships and Sir Rupert, together with innumerable
other senior counsel, junior counsel, solicitors, law reporters, lay reporters, ushers, and
what-nots were so troubling themselves and each other. The farmer's stack of clover had been
destroyed by fire, and the farmer, feeling that this was rather the affair of the Insurance
Company than himself, had asked for solatium. The Insurance Company asked who set the stack
on fire; the farmer didn't know; the Insurance Company, having regard to the size and the recent
creation of the policy, were prepared to guess. The case was heard at Presteign Assizes and
the farmer lost it, the jury who tried it being not quite so sure as was the farmer of his
innocence in the matter.

Encouraged by this, the Insurance Company prosecuted the farmer for perjury; but the jury that
tried this case took almost a stronger view of the farmer's virtue than he did himself and
found a verdict of "Not Guilty," adding a rider very depreciatory of the Insurance Company.
Encouraged by this verdict, the farmer sued the Insurance Company for malicious prosecution,
but the jury that tried this case had no faith in either party and disagreed. Another jury
were then put in their stead and they as good as disagreed by finding for the farmer but assessing
the damages at one farthing.

It will be observed that their Lordships have not yet appeared in the matter, whereas the haystack,
the cause of all the trouble, had as good as disappeared. Meanwhile our tramp, who had seen
better days and was something of a mathematician, calculated that the total sum spent on counsels'
fees alone up to this point was well over two hundred guineas.

Social reformers get mixed up in everything nowadays, and one appeared in the affair at this
juncture. Having chanced to be in court at the hearing of the Malicious Prosecution suit, he
had formed an opinion of the last-mentioned jury, and in an extremely witty speech, had included
them specifically in the long list of people and things that were no better than they should,
be. One of the jurors had unhappily been among his audience and, possibly because his experience
of another's cause had endeared him to litigation, he must needs start his action for slander.
By the time that action had been tried, and appealed, and a new trial ordered and held, and
the legal proceedings in the respective bankruptcies of the social reformer and the juror were
completed, the total of counsels' guineas must have been well on the other side of a thousand.

Everybody had now forgotten that there ever was a stack involved and no one would have recollected
that the Insurance Company had had anything to do with it, had not the social reformer, in
the course of his public examination, ingenuously attributed his financial downfall to the
original misbehaviour of that company in disbelieving their policy-holders when they declared
that they were not incendiaries. Thereupon, after a number of applications by counsel to a
number of courts, the Insurance Company got itself inserted in the Bankruptcy proceedings,
but not before an enterprising newspaper had taken upon itself to assert that there was an
element of truth in the contention of the social reformer. And then it was that the Contempt
proceedings began, and were fought strenuously stage by stage, each side briefing more and
more counsel as they went along, until at last, when the case came before their Lordships,
there were more barristers involved than could be seated in the limited accommodation provided
at the bar of their Lordships' House.

To calculate even roughly the final total of counsels' fees was no easy sum to be done on the
fingers. After wrestling with it a little, the tramp leant back and puffed hard at his pipe--so
hard that the sparks flew and the smoke became thick around him--so thick that "Bless my soul,"
said the tramp, rising hurriedly, "there's another stack I've been and gone and set afire!"

A tramp, a mere tramp going about the country and setting fire to stacks, is not even he to
be reckoned with in the order of things?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

APRIL FOR THE EPICURE.

(An effort to emulate the gustatory enthusiasm of "The P.M.G.")

April, though regarded as somewhat suspect by meteorologists, appeals with a peculiar force
to gastronomic experts, owing to the number of delicacies associated with the month.

FISH.

Oysters, like the poor, are still with us, but only till the end of the month; hence, ostreophils
should make the most of their opportunities. But, besides the "king of crustaceans," as Colonel
NEWNHAM-DAVIS happily termed the oyster, the sea provides us with a quantity of other succulent
denizens of the deep. Foremost among these is the turbot; a fish held in high honour since
the time of the Roman emperors. Nor must we omit honourable mention of lobster, whitebait,
mullet and eels. It is true that some people have an insuperable aversion from eels, but it
is the mark of the enlightened feeder to conquer these prejudices. Besides, no one is asked
to eat conger-eel at the best houses.

MEAT.

Beef, mutton and pork are in good condition, or, if they are not, they ought to be. But the
ways of the animal world are inscrutable, especially pigs. Lambs, again, show a strange want
of consideration for the consumer, for, though April 12th is called "Lamb and Gooseberry-Pie
Day," lamb, like veal, is dear just now and shows no signs of becoming less expensive. This
is one of the things which independent back-bench Members should ask a question about in the
House of Commons, or, failing that, they might write to The Times.

VERDANT STUFF.

Lovers of salads should now be conscious of a pleasing titillation, for this is the green season
par excellence. Watercress is at its cressiest; and lettuce springs from the earth for no other
reason than to invite the attentions of those two culinary modistes, oil and vinegar--the Paquins
of the kitchen--and so be "dressed", with highest elegance.

LES PETITS OISEAUX.

Pheasants and partridges are, alas! not now obtainable except from cold storage. But let us
not grumble over-much. Let us rather remember that the more they are neglected by the diner
during the mating season the more of them there will be to eat when the horrid period of restriction
is over. Among the rarer birds which are now on the market to compensate us may be mentioned
the bobolink, the dwarf cassowary, the Bombay duckling and the skewbald fintail. The last-named
bird, which comes to us from Algeria, is renowned for its savoury quality and is cooked in
butter and madeira, with a soupçon of cayenne. The effect of the cayenne is to merge the too
prominent black and white of the flesh into an appetising grey. The Rhodesian sparrow is another
highly esteemed delicacy, which does itself most justice when seethed in a casserole with antimony,
garlic and a few drops of eau-de-Cologne.

RHUBARB.

This is an extremely painful subject. Let us hurriedly pass to something more congenial.

EXOTIC FRUIT.

An agreeable seasonal feature is the widening of the horizon to the fruit lover. All sorts
of delightful foreign species and sub-species may now be bad for cash or (if one is lucky)
credit--such as bomboudiac, angelica, piperazine, zakuska, shalloofs and pampooties. A delicious
pampootie fool can be made quite cheaply as follows: 3 lb. of pampooties, 8 oz. of angelica
paregoric, 1 imperial pint of sloe gin, 1 gill of ammoniated quinine, 9 oz. of rock salt. Boil
the sloe gin and quinine to a frazzle, put in the pampooties, cut in thin slices, and take
out an insurance policy.

PLOVERS' EGGS.

These eggs by a strange freak of nature are more easily obtainable in April and May than in
any other month. In fact in December they are worth their weight in gold, and are then to be
found on the tables only of Mr. MALLABY-DEELEY, Mr. ROCKEFELLER, Mr. HARRY LAUDER and Mr. JOHN
BURNS. To-day they are anything from ninepence to a shilling each, and in a fortnight's time
they will be sixpence each, with the added pleasure to the consumer of now and then finding
a young plover inside.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On Wednesday of last week an express train dashed into a flock of
     sheep being driven over a level crossing at Northallerton to-day."

     Meat Trades' Journal.

Only an express train could arrive a week early; the other ones are always late.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a calendar:--

     "April 6th. Dividends due. 'We needs must love the highest when we
     see it.'"

Unfortunately we don't often see it.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOCTURNE.

(A Golf-match has recently been played at Bushey by night.)

  Not in the noontide's horrid glare
    When nervousness and lunch combined
  And James's shoes and well-oiled hair
  Perturb me, but when Cynthia fair
        In heaven is shrined,
  I show my perfect form, and play
  Big brassie-shots like EDWARD RAY.
  By night I am plus four. By day----
        Well, never mind.

  With elfin stance I stride the tee
    And deal my orb an amorous slap
  In the mid-moonshine's mystery,
  And Puck preserves the stroke for me
        From foul mishap;
  Pan saves me from the casual pot
  And Dryad nymphs upbear my shot
  Outstripping James's (James has got
        No soul, poor chap).

  The little pixies of the wood
    Come thronging round him while he putts;
  They do his game no kind of good
  But many an unseen toadstool-hood
        Their craft unshuts;
  They turn his eye-balls to and fro
  And make marsh-lanterns round him glow;
  He is all off, whilst I am--oh!
        One of the nuts.

  The gossips by the club-room fire
    Applaud my game with constant din:
  "Approach-work never was so dire,
  No mashies on this earth expire
        So near the tin;
  You ought to watch his tee-shots whizz
  At number nine. Hot stuff he is.
  The captain's lunar vase is his,
        If he goes in."

