I don't know if other people have noticed it, but this was one of several instances where I
have seen foreigners--Frenchmen, Italians, and Spaniards, for instance--meet death, inevitable
death, with greater firmness than British soldiers or sailors.  Let me explain.  In the field,
or grappling in mortal combat, on the blood--slippery quarterdeck of an enemy's vessel, British
soldier or sailor is the bravest of the brave.  No soldier or sailor of any other country,
saving and excepting those damned Yankees, can stand against them--they would be utterly overpowered--their
hearts would fail them--they would either be cut down thrust through, or they would turn and
flee.  Yet those same men who have turned and fled, will meet death, but it must be as I said,
inevitable, unavoidable death, not only more firmly than their conquerors would do in their
circumstances, but with an intrepidity oh, do not call it indifference!--altogether astonishing.
Be it their religion, or their physical conformation, or what it may, all I have to do with,
is the fact, which I record as undeniable.  Out of five--and twenty individuals, in the present
instance, not a sigh was heard, nor a moan, nor a querulous word.  They stepped lightly into
the boats, and seated themselves in silence.  When told by the seamen to make room, or to shift
so as not to be in the way of the oars, they did so with alacrity, and almost with an air of
civility, although they knew that within half an hour their earthly career must close for ever.

The young Spaniard who had stood forward so conspicuously on the trial, was in my boat; in
stepping in he accidentally trod on my foot in passing forward; he turned and apologized, with
much natural politeness "he hoped he had not hurt me?"

I answered kindly, I presume--who could have done so harshly?  This emboldened him apparently,
for he stopped, and asked leave to sit by me. I consented, while an incomprehensible feeling
crept over me; and when once I had time to recollect myself, I shrunk from him, as a blood
stained brute, with whom even in his extremity it was unfitting for me to hold any intercourse.
When he noticed my repugnance to remain near him, he addressed me hastily, as if afraid that
I would destroy the opportunity he seemed to desire.

"God did not always leave me the slave of my passions," he said, in a low, deep, most musical
voice.  "The day has been when I would have shrunk as you do--but time presses.  You have a
mother?" said he--I assented--"and an only sister?" As it happened, he was right here too.
"And--and"--here he hesitated, and his voice shook and trembled with the most intense and heart--crushing
emotion--"y una mas cara que ambos?" Mary, you can tell whether in this he did not also speak
truth.  I acknowledged there was another being more dear to me than either. "Then," said he,
"take this chain from my neck, and the crucifix, and a small miniature from my bosom; but not
yet--not till I leave the boat. You will find an address affixed to the string of the latter.
Your course of service may lead you to St Jago if not, a brother officer may." His voice became
inaudible; his hot scalding tears dropped fast on my hand, and the ravisher, the murderer,
the pirate, wept as an innocent and helpless infant.  "You will deliver it.  Promise a dying
man-- promise a great sinner." But it was momentary--he quelled the passion with a fierce and
savage energy, as he said sternly, "Promise! promise!" I did so, and I fulfilled it.

The day broke. I took the jewels and miniature from his neck, as he led the way with the firm
step of a hero, in ascending the long gibbet.  The halters were adjusted, when he stepped towards
the side I was on, as far as the rope would let him, "Dexa me verla--dexa me verla, una vez
mas!" I held up the miniature.  He looked--he glared intensely at it.  "Adios, Maria, seas
feliz mi querida, feliz--feliz Maria--adios--adios--Maria Mar".

The rope severed thy name from his lips, sweet girl; but not until it also severed his soul
from his body, and sent him to his tremendous account--young in years, but old in wickedness--to
answer at that tribunal, where we must all appear, to the God who made him, and whose gifts
he had so fearfully abused, for thy broken heart and early death, amongst the other scarlet
atrocities of his short but ill spent life.

The signal had been given--the lumbering flap of the long drop was heard, and five--and--twenty
human beings were wavering in the sea breeze in the agonies of death!  The other eighteen suffered
on the same spot the week following; and for long after, this fearful and bloody example struck
terror into the Cuba fishermen.

"Strange now, that the majority--ahem--of my beauties and favourites through life have been
called Mary.  There is my own Mary--un peu passee certainly--but deil mean her, for half a
dozen lit"--"Now, Tom Cringle, don't bother with your sentimentality, but get along, do."--"Well,
I will get along--but have patience, you Hottentot Venus--you Lord Nugent, you.  So once more
we make sail."

Next morning, soon after gunfire, I landed at the Wherry wharf in Port Royal.  It was barely
daylight, but, to my surprise, I found my friend Peregrine Whiffle seated on a Spanish chair,
close to the edge of the wharf, smoking a cigar.  This piece of furniture is an arm--chair
strongly framed with hard--wood, over which, back and bottom, a tanned hide is stretched, which,
in a hot climate, forms a most luxurious seat, the back tumbling out at an angle of 45 degrees,
while the skin yields to every movement, and does not harbour a nest of biting ants, or a litter
of scorpions, or any other of the customary occupants of a cushion that has been in Jamaica
for a year.

He did not know me as I passed; but his small glimmering red face instantly identified the
worthy little old man to me.

"Good morning, Mr Whiffle--the top of the morning to you, sir."

"Hillo," responded Peregrine--"Tom, is it you?--how d'ye do, man--how d'ye do?" and he started
to his feet, and almost embraced me.

Now, I had never met the said Peregrine Whiffle but twice in my life; once at Mr Fyall's, and
once during the few days I remained in Kingston, before I set out on my travels; but he was
a warm hearted kindly old fellow, and, from knowing all my friends there very intimately, he,
as a matter of course, became equally familiar with me.

"Why the diable came you not to see me, man?  Have been here for change of air, to recruit,
you know, after that demon, the gout, had been so perplexing me, ever since you came to anchor--the
Firebrand, I mean--as for you, you have been mad one while, and philandering with those inconvenient
white ladies the other.  You'll cure of that, my boy you'll come to the original comforts of
the country soon, no fear!"

"Perhaps I may, perhaps not."

"Oh, your cousin Mary, I forgot--fine girl, Tom--may do for you at home yonder," (all Creoles
speak of England as home, although they may never have seen it,) "but she can't make pepper--pot,
nor give a dish of land crabs as land crabs should be given, nor see to the serving up of a
ringtail pigeon, nor rub a beefsteak to the rotting turn with a bruised papaw, nor compose
a medicated bath, nor, nor--oh, confound it, Tom, she will be, when you marry her, a cold,
comfortless, motionless Creole icicle!"

I let him have his swing.  "Never mind her then, never mind her, my dear sir; but time presses
and I must be off, I must indeed, so good morning; I wish you a good morning, sir."

He started to his feet, and caught hold of me.  "Sha'n't go, Tom, impossible--come along with
me to my lodgings, and breakfast with me. Here, Pilfer, Pilfer," to his black valet, "give
me my stick, and massu the chair, and run home and order breakfast--cold calipiver--our Jamaica
salmon, you know, Tom--tea and coffee pickled mackerel, eggs, and cold tongue--any thing that
Mother Dingychops can give us; so bolt, Pilfer, bolt!"

I told him that before I came ashore I had heard the gig's--crew piped away, and that I therefore
expected, as Jonathan says, that the captain would be after me immediately; so that I wished
at all events to get away from where we were, as I had no desire to be caught gossiping about
when my superior might be expected to pass.

"True, boy, true"--as he shackled himself to me, and we began to crawl along towards the wharf--gate
leading into the town.  Captain Transom by this time had landed, and came up with us.

"Ah, Transom," said Whiffle, "glad to see you. I say, why won't you allow Mr Cringle here to
go over to Spanish Town with me for a couple of days, eh?"

"Why, I don't remember that Mr Cringle has ever asked leave."

"Indeed, sir, I neither did ask leave, nor have I thought of doing so," said I.

"But I do for you," chimed in my friend Whiffle.  "Come, captain, give him leave, just for
two days, that's a prime chap.  Why, Tom, you see you have got it, so off with you and come
to me with your kit as soon as possible; I will hobble on and make the coffee and chocolate;
and, Captain Transom, come along and breakfast with me too.  No refusal, I require society.
Nearly drowned yesterday, do you know that?  Off this same cursed wharf too--just here. I was
looking down at the small fish playing about the piles, precisely in this position; one of
them was as bright in the scales as a gold fish in my old grandmother's glass globe, and I
had to crane over the ledge in this fashion," suiting the action to the word, "when away I went"--

And,  to  our  unutterable  surprise,  splash  went  Peregrine  Whiffle, Esquire,  for the
second time, and there--he was shouting, and  puffing, and  splashing  in the water.  We were
both so convulsed  with  laughter that  I  believe he would have been drowned for us; but the
boat--keeper of  the gig, the strong athletic negro before mentioned, promptly jumped on  the
wharf with his boat--hook, and caught the dapper little old beau by  the  waistband  of his
breeches, swaying him up, frightened  enough, with his little coat skirts fluttering in the
breeze, and no wonder, but not much the worse for it all.

"Diable porte I'amour," whispered Captain Transom.

"Swallowed  a  Scotch  pint of salt water to a  certainty--run,  Pilfer, bring  me  some brandy--gout
will be into my stomach, sure as fate--feel him  now--run, Pilfer, run, or gout will beat you--a
dead heat that will be!" And he keckled at his small joke very complacently.

We  had him carried by our people to his lodgings, where, after shifting and  brandying  to
some tune, he took his place at the breakfast  table, and did the honours with his usual amenity
and warm heartedness.

After  breakfast  Peregrine remembered, what the  sly  rogue  had  never forgotten  I  suspect,
that he was engaged to dine with  his  friend  Mr Pepperpot Wagtail, in Kingston.

"But it don't signify, Wagtail will be delighted to see you, Tom hospitable fellow Wagtail--and,
now I recollect myself, Fyall and Aaron Bang are to be there; dang it, were it not for the
gout, we should have a night on't!"

After breakfast we started in a canoe for Kingston, touching at the Firebrand for my kit.

Moses Yerk, the unpoetical first lieutenant, was standing well forward on the quarterdeck as
I passed over the side to get into the canoe, with the gunroom steward following me, carrying
my kit under his arm.

"I say, Tom, good for you, one lark after another."

"Don't like that fellow," quoth Whiffle; "he is quarrelsome in his drink for a thousand, I
know it by the cut of his jib."

