Every man, in his more serious moments, must confess that he has done few things in the course
of his life he would not wish undone; and experience must have shown him that the things he
most feared would have been better ihan those he most prayed for.

Vanity is our dearest weakness, in more senses than one: a man will sacrifice every thing,
and starve out all his other inclinations to keep alive that one.

The man who trusts entirely to nature when he is sick, runs a great risk; but he who puts himself
in the hands of a physician runs a still greater: of the two, nature would seem the better
nurse, for she will, at all events, act honestly, and can have no possible interest in tampering
with disease.

A great idea may be thus defined:--it gives us the perception of many others, and it discovers
to us all at once what we could only have arrived at by a course of reading or inquiry.

We are told to place no faith in appearances, yet it will be found a wiser course to judge
from the human countenance rather than the human voice: most men place a guard over their words
and their actions, but very few can blind the expression that is conveyed by the features.

To assist our fellow-creatures is the noblest privilege of mortality: it is, in some sort,
forestalling the bounty of Providence.

There is no doubt that memory, although it may be cultivated, is originally a gift of nature;
so, also, application must be regarded as a natural endowment; for there are some men, however
well disposed, who can never bring themselves to grapple closely with any thing.

It has been suggested that man has no real necessity for clothing. All other creatures are
furnished with every necessary for their existence, and it is improbable one nobler than them
all should be left in a defective condition: there are some nations, in severer climates than
ours, who have no notion of clothing; and, even in civilized life, the most tender parts of
the body are constantly exposed, as the face, neck, &c.

It is the temper of a blade that must be the proof of a good sword, and not the gilding of
the hilt or the richness of the scabbard; so it is not his grandeur and possessions that make
a man considerable, but his intrinsic merit.

F.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE KNIGHT'S RETURN.

FROM THE GERMAN.

(For the Mirror.)

  "Page, what sound mine ears is greeting,
    Whence the lime-trees wave in pride?"
  "'Tis, sir knight, the herds that bleating,
    Wander o'er the mountain's side."

  "Say, my page, what means this singing?
    Notes so sad, some ill betide;"
  "In the village, crowds are bringing
    From the chapel, home a bride."

  "Say then, why so slowly passes
    Yon dark-rob'd and silent train?"
  "From the saying bridal-masses,
    Monks are coming o'er the plain."

  "Speak then, why I now behold it;
    Whence yon banner's milk-white hue?"
  "Ask no further, they unfold it
    To the bride an honour due."

  "Say, my page, what means that writing
    Graven on yon marble-stone?"
  "'Tis the youth and maiden plighting
    Love to one, and one alone."

  "How, my page, that name the dearest?
    See, and true its meaning tell."
  "Know, and tremble as thou hearest,
    "'Twas for secret love she fell."

  "What! my page, if thus 'tis written,
    If for love she dar'd to die,
  Bertha dead! if thus 'tis written,
    As she perish'd, so will I."

H.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCOTCH ECONOMY.

(To the Editor.)

The amusing letter of S.S. in No. 536, of The Mirror, has but so very recently met my eyes,
that I have been obliged unavoidably to allow some weeks to elapse ere I noticed it. Indeed,
to advert to it at all, I should not have considered necessary, but that your correspondent
seems to imply a doubt as to the accuracy of my assertion, in the article "Shavings," (vide
No. 533, p. 83.) Permit me, for the satisfaction of your readers to state, that I was no "flying
tourist," when the fact of a very considerable waste of fuel in Edinburgh, (fuel which would,
I thought, sell in England, if not wanted in Scotland,) came repeatedly, I may say, almost
daily, under my own personal observation. A residence of two years in Edinburgh (yes, it certainly
was "the Scottish capital," for I had previously resided during a longer period in the Irish
one,) enabled me to state what I then beheld, with a scrutiny which certainly would not have
been warranted by a mere casual visit of two days, two weeks, or two months; that the circumstance
should have irritated S.S. I cannot consider any fault of mine; my statement was correct. The
possibility of Irish labourers being employed to build in Scotland, as they are very generally
in England, does not seem to have occurred to your correspondent; I confess it did to me, but
considered, to mention it in my trifling "Domestic Hint," quite unnecessary, since, had their
wastefulness been hitherto unknown to their employers, it might henceforth, if they pleased
"to take a hint," be by them materially checked. In days when the complaint of poverty is universal,
when the working classes find it difficult to carry on any employment which shall bring them
bread, and when thousands wander over the united kingdom with no apparent means of subsistence,
I did not imagine that a "Hint," as to a possible source of emolument (were it confined but
to half a dozen individuals) to the poor, would be considered a meet subject for ridicule.
I said, or intended to say, if shavings and loose chippings of wood are of little value for
fuel in Scotland, they are acceptable in England; and why, if the proprietors of new houses
choose during their erection, to save the fuel they produce, and of which I repeat I have seen
vast quantities burnt, and bestow it as a charity on such persons as might think it worth acceptance
for sale, "over the Border;" why they should not do so, I have yet to learn.[5] However, waiving
this scheme, which S.S. may be inclined to think rather Utopian, and conceding, that if Scotland
needs not for fuel, her refuse chips and shavings, they would not answer in that light as a
marketable commodity in the sister country, still wood and wood-ashes have become of late years,
agents so valuable and important in chemistry, and other sciences and arts, as to furnish another,
and all-sufficient reason why no reckless destruction should be allowed of an article, every
species of which may be rendered, under some modification, of utility.

    [5] Has Scotland no paupers to whom the gift of wood fuel might
        prove acceptable, in spite of peat? We have in England abundance
        of wood, yet our own poor are distressed for it, glad to pick up
        sticks for firing, and often steal it from fences, &c. in their
        necessity, and the gift of wood is to them a charity, as well as
        that of coals. Why should aught that could he made of use, be
        wantonly destroyed? It is contrary to Scripture; it is in
        opposition to common sense.

Respecting the well preserved eggs of Scotland; though S.S. is probably aware of the circumstance,
yet some of your readers may not be, their sale in England (and indeed I have understood America)
brings her in no inconsiderable profit. In this country they arrive, and I have my account
from an eye-witness, in large deal boxes, most curiously packed, relying solely on each other
for support; since, set up perpendicularly on their ends, with no straw, heather, saw-dust,
or any other material to fill the interstices between them, the fate of every box of this fragile
ware depends, during its journey and unlading, on the safety or fracture of a single egg; but
such is the nicety and compactness of their packing, that rarely, if ever, an accident occurs.

M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRICE OF TEA.

(To the Editor.)

As I have been a subscriber to The Mirror from its commencement, and very frequently refer
to its pages with much pleasure and profit, I hope I may be allowed to correct a statement
made in No. 541, p. 222, under the article Tea. It is said that the profit of one pound to
sell at 7s. is 2s. 2d.

                    s. d.
  Thus, cost price   2  5
  Duty               2  5
  Profit             2  2

                     7  0

In all retail houses of any respectability in the Tea trade, I am sure that Tea costing 2s.
5d. at the sale is never sold above 6s. per lb. and in five out of six shops of the above description
5s. 4d. and 5s. 6d. is the utmost price demanded for such Tea. I and my family have been in
the trade, in one house, considerably more than half a century, and I can assure you, that
from 6d. to 8d. per lb. is the present retail profit upon Tea sold at the East India Company's
sales, under 3s. per lb.

S.

In reply to this note, the authenticity of which we do not question, we can only refer the
writer to our distinct quotation from "the evidence of Mr. Mills, a Tea Broker, before the
House of Lords.' In our 15th volume, No. 414, p. 104, the proportion of profit is differently
stated from an article in the Quarterly Review. A pound of 11s.

Hyson

                                    s. d.
  Costs at the Company's Sale        4  4
  King's Duty                        4  4

                                     8  8
  Retailer's profit, brokerage, &c.  2  4

                                    11  0

We have often received from one of the most extensively dealing retail Tea-dealers in the metropolis,
an assurance, similar to that of our correspondent, S. so that we do not require the substantiation
he proffers.--Ed. M.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Naturalist.

GLEANINGS IN NATURAL HISTORY.

Observers of Nature seem to be just now appreciating the observation of the benevolent Gilbert
White, of Selborne, who lived and died in the last century: "that if stationary men would pay
some attention to the districts on which they reside, and would publish their thoughts respecting
the objects that surround them, from such materials might be drawn the most complete county
histories." Accordingly, a little system of rural philosophy has been founded upon the best
of all bases, home-observation, and such books as have resulted from these labours, promise
to make the study of Nature more popular than will all the Zoological, Botanical, and Geological
Societies of Europe. Among these works we include the cheap reprint of the Natural History
of Selborne; Mr. Rennie's delightful observations which are scattered through the Zoological
volumes of the Library of Entertaining Knowledge; but more especially the Journal of a Naturalist,
published by Mr. Leonard Knapp, about three years since, and stated by the author to have originated
in his admiration of Mr. White's Selborne. The volume before us is the result of a congenial
feeling, and is written by Edward Jesse, Esq., deputy surveyor of his majesty's parks, by means
of which appointment he must have possessed peculiar opportunities and facilities of observation,
as is evident in the local recollections throughout his volume. Thus, we find miscellaneous
particulars of the Royal Parks and Forests, and from the writer's residence on the bank of
the Thames, (we conclude, near Bushy Park,) a few Maxims for an Angler. The whole is a very
charming melange, with a most discursive arrangement, it is true, but never falling into dulness,
or tiring the reader with too minute detail. We intend, therefore, to range through the volume,
and gather a few of its most interesting gleanings to our garner.

Our author thinks he has discovered the use for the remarkable and, indeed, what appears disproportionate
length, of the

Claws of the Skylark.

"That they were not intended to enable the bird to search the earth for food, or to fix itself
more securely on the branches of trees, is evident, as they neither scratch the ground nor
roost on trees. The lark makes its nest generally in grass fields, where it is liable to be
injured either by cattle grazing over it, or by the mower. In case of alarm from either these
or other causes, the parent birds remove their eggs, by means of their long claws, to a place
of greater security; and this transportation I have observed to be effected in a very short
space of time. By placing a lark's egg, which is rather large in proportion to the size of
the bird, in the foot, and then drawing the claws over it, you will perceive that they are
of sufficient length to secure the egg firmly, and by this means the bird is enabled to convey
its eggs to another place, where she can sit upon and hatch them. When one of my mowers first
told me that he had observed the fact, I was somewhat disinclined to credit it; but I have
since ascertained it beyond a doubt, and now mention it as another strong proof of that order
in the economy of Nature, by means of which this affectionate bird is enabled to secure its
forthcoming offspring. I call it affectionate, because few birds show a stronger attachment
to their young."

Instinct allied to reason.

Several interesting anecdotes are quoted to show that there is something more than mere instinct,
which influences the conduct of some animals. Bees and spiders afford many traits, but we quote
the elephant and parrot:

"I was one day feeding the poor elephant (who was so barbarously put to death at Exeter 'Change)
with potatoes, which he took out of my hand. One of them, a round one, fell on the floor, just
out of the reach of his proboscis. He leaned against his wooden bar, put out his trunk, and
could just touch the potato, but could not pick it up. After several ineffectual efforts, he
at last blew the potato against the opposite wall with sufficient force to make it rebound,
and he then, without difficulty, secured it. Now it is quite clear, I think, that instinct
never taught the elephant to procure his food in this manner; and it must, therefore, have
been reason, or some intellectual faculty, which enabled him to be so good a judge of cause
and effect. Indeed, the reflecting power of some animals is quite extraordinary. I had a dog
who was much attached to me, and who, in consequence of his having been tied up on a Sunday
morning, to prevent his accompanying me to church, would conceal himself in good time on that
day, and I was sure to find him either at the entrance of the church, or if he could get in,
under the place where I usually sat.

"I have been often much delighted with watching the manner in which some of the old bucks in
Bushy Park contrive to get the berries from the fine thorn-trees there. They will raise themselves
on their hind legs, give a spring, entangle their horns in the lower branches of the tree,
give them one or two shakes, which make some of the berries full, and they will then quietly
pick them up.

