There is an air of repose about the ensemble that is in itself suggestive of the Orient; and
the illusion is helped out by the pigeons that flock everywhere undisturbed about the approaches
to the building, fluttering to be fed from the hand of some recognized friend, and scarcely
evading the feet of the casual wayfarer. With this scene before him, if one will close his
ears to the hum of the great city at his back he can readily imagine himself on classical soil,
and, dreaming of Greece and Italy, he will enter the door quite prepared to find himself in
the midst of antique marbles and the atmosphere of by-gone ages.

I have already pointed out that the turning-point in the history of the British Museum came
just at the beginning of the century, with the acquisition of the Egyptian antiquities. With
this the institution threw off its swaddling-clothes. Hitherto it had been largely a museum
of natural history; in future, without neglecting this department, it was to become equally
important as a museum of archaeology. The Elgin marbles, including the wonderful Parthenon
frieze, confirmed this character, and it was given the final touch by the reception, about
the middle of the century, of the magnificent Assyrian collection just exhumed at the seat
of old Nineveh by Mr. (afterwards Sir Henry) Layard. Since then these collections, with additions
of similar character, have formed by far the most important feature of the British Museum.
But in the mean time archaeology has become a science.

Within recent years the natural history collection has been removed in toto from the old building
to a new site far out in South Kensington, and the casual visitor is likely to think of it
as a separate institution. The building which it occupies is very modern in appearance as in
fact. It is a large and unquestionably striking structure, and one that gives opportunity for
very radical difference of opinion as to its architectural beauty. By some it is much admired;
by others it is almost equally scoffed at. Certain it is that it will hardly bear comparison
with the parent building in Great Russell Street.

Interiorly, the building of the natural history museum is admirably adapted for its purpose.
Its galleries are for the most part well lighted, and the main central hall is particularly
well adapted for an exhibition of specimens, to which I shall refer more at length in a moment.
For the rest there is no striking departure from the conventional. Perhaps it is not desired
that there should be, since long experience seems to have settled fairly well the problem of
greatest economy of space, combined with best lighting facilities, which always confronts the
architect in founding a natural history museum.

There is, however, one striking novel feature in connection with the structure of the natural
history museum at Kensington which must not be overlooked. This is the quite unprecedented
use of terra-cotta ornamentation. Without there is a striking display of half-decorative and
half-realistic forms; while within the walls and pillars everywhere are covered with terracotta
bas-reliefs representing the various forms of life appropriate to the particular department
of the museum which they ornament. This very excellent feature might well be copied elsewhere,
and doubtless will be from time to time.

As to the exhibits proper within the museum, it may be stated in a word that they cover the
entire range of the faunas and floras of the globe in a variety and abundance of specimens
that are hardly excelled anywhere, and only duplicated by one or two other collections in Europe
and two or three in America.

It would be but a reiteration of what the catalogues of all large collections exhibit were
one to enumerate the various forms here shown, but there are two or three exhibits in this
museum which are more novel and which deserve special mention. One of these is to be found
in a set of cases in the main central hall. Here are exhibited, in a delightfully popular form,
some of the lessons that the evolutionist has taught us during the last half-century. Appropriately
enough, a fine marble statue of Darwin, whose work is the fountain-head of all these lessons,
is placed on the stairway just beyond, as if to view with approval this beautiful exemplification
of his work.

One of these cases illustrates the variations of animals under domestication, the particular
specimens selected being chiefly the familiar pigeon, in its various forms, and the jungle-fowl
with its multiform domesticated descendants.

Another case illustrates very strikingly the subject of protective coloration of animals. Two
companion cases are shown, each occupied by specimens of the same species of birds and animals--in
one case in their summer plumage and pelage and in the other clad in the garb of winter. The
surroundings in the case have, of course, been carefully prepared to represent the true environments
of the creatures at the appropriate seasons. The particular birds and animals exhibited are
the willow-grouse, the weasel, and a large species of hare. All of these, in their summer garb,
have a brown color, which harmonizes marvellously with their surroundings, while in winter
they are pure white, to match the snow that for some months covers the ground in their habitat.

The other cases of this interesting exhibit show a large variety of birds and animals under
conditions of somewhat abnormal variation, in the one case of albinism and the other of melanism.
These cases are, for the casual visitor, perhaps the most striking of all, although, of course,
they teach no such comprehensive lessons as the other exhibits just referred to.

The second of the novel exhibits of the museum to which I wish to refer is to be found in a
series of alcoves close beside the central cases in the main hallway.

Each of these alcoves is devoted to a class of animals--one to mammals, one to birds, one to
fishes, and so on. In each case very beautiful sets of specimens have been prepared, illustrating
the anatomy and physiology of the group of animals in question. Here one may see, for example,
in the alcove devoted to birds, specimens showing not only details of the skeleton and muscular
system, but the more striking examples of variation of form of such members as the bill, legs,
wings, and tails. Here are preparations also illustrating, very strikingly, the vocal apparatus
of birds. Here, again, are finely prepared wings, in which the various sets of feathers have
been outlined with different-colored pigments, so that the student can name them at a glance.
In fact, every essential feature of the anatomy of the bird may be studied here as in no other
collection that I know of. And the same is true of each of the other grand divisions of the
animal kingdom. This exhibit alone gives an opportunity for the student of natural history
that is invaluable. It is quite clear to any one who has seen it that every natural history
museum must prepare a similar educational exhibit before it can claim to do full justice to
its patrons.

