No. 34.]
SATURDAY, JUNE 22. 1850.                               51
    Notes on Milton                                                 53
    Colvil's Whigg's Supplication                                   53

  QUERIES:--
    Hubert le Soeur's Six Brass Statues by E. F. Rimbault, LL.D.    54
    Bishop Jewell's Library                                         54
    The Low Window                                                  55
    Minor Queries:--North Sides of Churchyards--Hatfield--Ulrich
      von Hutten--Simon of Ghent--Boetius--Gloucestershire Gospel
      Tree--Churchyards--Epitaphs--Anthony Warton--Cardinal's
      Hat--Maps of London--Griffith of Penrhyn--Mariner's
      Compass--Pontefract on the Thames                             55

  REPLIES:--
    Study of Geometry in Lancashire by T. T. Wilkinson              57
    Queries Answered, No. 8., by Bolton Corney                      60
    Meaning of Bawn                                                 60
    Replies to Minor Queries:--Births, Marriages, &c.--M. or
      N.--Arabic Numerals--Comment in Apocalypsin--Robert
      Deverell--Hippopotamus--Ashes to Ashes--Dr. Maginn's
      Miscellanies--Living Dog better than a Dead Lion--Gaol
      Chaplains--Rome, Ancient and Modern--Trianon                  60

  MISCELLANIES:--
    Aboriginal Chambers near Tilbury--Mistake in Conybeare and
      Howson's Life of St. Paul                                     62

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
    Notes on Books, Catalogues, Sales, &c.                          63
    Books and Odd Volumes Wanted                                    63
    Notices to Correspondents                                       63
    Advertisements                                                  64

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

THE "AGAPEMONE" OF THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY.

As it is not generally known that the "Agapemone" had a prototype in the celebrated Family
of Love, some account of this "wicked sect" may not at this moment be without interest to your
readers:--

    "Henry Nicholas, a Westphalian, born at Munster, but who had lived a
    great while at Amsterdam, and some time likewise at Embden, was the
    father of this family. He appeared upon the stage about the year 1540,
    styled himself the deified man, boasted of great matters, and seemed
    to exalt himself above the condition of a human creature. He was, as he
    pretended, greater than Moses and Christ, because Moses had taught
    mankind to hope, Christ to believe, but he to love; which last
    being of more worth than both the former, he was consequently greater
    than both those prophets."--See Brandt's Hist. of the Reform, &c., in
    the Low Countries, vol. i. p. 105, ed. 1720.

According to some writers, however, the sect was not founded by Henry Nicholas, but by David
George, an Anabaptist enthusiast of Delft, who died in 1556; and indeed there is some reason
to believe that the Family of Love grew out of the heresies of the said George, with whom Nicholas
had been on friendly terms.

    "'Not content,' says Fuller, speaking of Nicholas, 'to confine his
    errors to his own country, over he comes into England, and in the
    latter end of the reign of Edward the Sixth, joyned himself to the
    Dutch congregation in London, where he seduced a number of artificers
    and silly women.'"--Church. Hist., p. 112, ed. 1655.

On the 12th of June, 1575, according to the historian Hollinshed,

    "Stood at Paule's Crosse five persons, Englishmen, of the sect termed
    the Familie of Love, who there confessed themselves utterlie to detest
    as well the author of that sect, H. N., as all his damnable errors and
    heresies."

A curious little volume on the history and doctrines of this sect appeared in the year 1572,
from the pen of John Rogers, entitled The Displaying of an horrible Secte of grosse and wicked
Heretiques, naming themselves the Family of Love, with the Lives of their Authors, and what
Doctrine they teach in Corners. Imprinted at London for George Bishop. 1579. 12mo. Christopher
Vittall, a joiner of Southwark, who had been infected with the doctrine of Arius some twenty
years before, and whose credit was great amongst the Family of Love, was at this period actively
engaged in teaching their doctrines. He travelled about the country to disseminate them; and
was likewise author of a little book, in reply to Roger's Displaying of the sect, printed in
the same year.

At the close of the year 1580 the sect was increasing so rapidly in England, that the government
took active measures for its suppression, and the Queen issued a proclamation to search for
the "teachers or professors of the foresaid damnable sect," and to "proceed severelie against
them." {50} This proclamation may be seen in Hollinshed and in Camden's Annals.[1]

After the death of Queen Elizabeth--

    "The Family of Love (or Lust rather)," according to Fuller, "presented
    a tedious petition to King James, so that it is questionable whether
    his Majesty ever graced it with his perusall, wherein they endeavoured
    to cleare themselves from some misrepresentations, and by fawning
    expression to insinuate themselves into his Majesty's good opinion."

After printing the petition Fuller proceeds--

    "I finde not what effect this their petition produced, whether it was
    slighted and the petitioners looked upon as inconsiderable, or beheld
    as a few frantick folk out of their wits, which consideration alone
    often melted their adversaries' anger into pity unto them. The main
    design driven on in the petition is, to separate themselves from the
    Puritans (as persons odious to King James), that they might not fare
    the worse for their vicinity unto them; though these Familists could
    not be so desirous to leave them as the others were glad to be left by
    them. For if their opinions were so senseless, and the lives of these
    Familists so sensuall as is reported, no purity at all belonged unto
    them."

The Family of Love, after being exposed and ridiculed both in "prose and rime," finally "gave
up the ghost," and was succeeded by another "wicked sect" denominated the Ranters.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

[Footnote 1: It was reprinted in NOTES AND QUERIES, Vol. i. p. 17.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PUNISHMENT OF DEATH BY BURNING.

A woman was strangled and burnt for coining in front of the Debtors door, Newgate, on the 10th
of March, 1789. I believe this to be the last instance in which this old punishment was inflicted,
at least in the metropolis. The burning part of the ceremony was abolished by the 30 Geo. III.,
c. 48., and death by hanging made the penalty for women in cases of high or petty treason.
E. S. S. W.'s informants are wrong in supposing that the criminals were burnt whilst living.
The law, indeed, prescribed it, but the practice was more humane. They were first strangled;
although it sometimes happened that, through the bungling of the executioner, a criminal was
actually burnt alive, as occurred in the celebrated case of Katherine Hayes, executed for the
murder of her husband in 1726. The circumstances of this case are so remarkable, that, having
referred to it, I am induced to recapitulate the chief of them, in the belief that they will
interest your readers. Hayes, who was possessed of some little property, lodged with his wife
Katherine in Tyburn, now Oxford Road. Mrs. Hayes prevailed upon two men, named Billings (who
lodged in the house) and Wood, a friend of Hayes, to assist her in murdering her husband. To
facilitate that object, Hayes was induced to drink the enormous quantity of seven bottles (at
that time full quarts) of Mountain wine, besides other intoxicating drinks. After finishing
the seventh bottle he fell on the floor, but soon after arose and threw himself on a bed. There,
whilst in a state of stupefaction, he was despatched by Billings and Wood striking him on the
head with a hatchet. The murderers then held council as to the best mode of concealing their
crime, and it was determined that they should mutilate and dispose of the body. They cut off
the head, Mrs. Hayes holding a pail to catch the blood; and she proposed that the head should
be boiled until the flesh came from the skull. This advice was rejected on account of the time
which the process suggested would occupy, and Billings and Wood carried the head in the pail
(it was at night) to the Horseferry at Westminster, and there cast it into the Thames. On the
following day the murderers separated the limbs from the body, and wrapping them, together
with the trunk, in two blankets, carried them to Marylebone fields, and placed them in a pond.
Hayes' head not having been carried away by the tide, as the murderers expected it would have
been, was found floating at the Horseferry in the morning. The attention of the authorities
was drawn to the circumstance, and the magistrates being of opinion that a murder had been
committed, caused the head to be washed and the hair combed out, and then had it placed on
a pole and exposed to public view in St. Margaret's churchyard, in the hope that it might lead
to the discovery of the suspected crime. Great crowds of persons of all ranks flocked to St.
Margaret's churchyard to see the head, and amongst the rest a young man named Bennett, who
perceiving the likeness to Hayes, whom he knew, immediately went to Mrs. Hayes on the subject;
but she assured him that her husband was alive and well, which satisfied him. A journeyman
tailor, named Patrick, also went to see the head, and on his return told his fellow workmen
that it was Hayes. These workmen, who also had known Hayes, then went to look at the head,
and felt the same conviction. It happened that Billings worked at the same shop in which these
men were employed in Monmouth Street, and when he came to work next morning, they told him
of the circumstance. Billings, however, lulled their suspicious by declaring that he had left
Mr. Hayes at home that morning. After the head had been exhibited for four days in the churchyard,
the magistrates caused it to be placed in spirits, in a glass vessel, and in that state it
continued to be exposed to public view. Two friends of Hayes, named Ashley and Longmore, who
had seen the head without imagining that it was his, some time after called on Mrs. Hayes,
on separate occasions, to inquire for her husband, whose absence began to be noticed. Ashley
and Longmore were mutual {51} friends, and their suspicions being excited by the contradictory
statements which Mrs. Hayes had given to them, they went to look again at the head, when a
minute examination satisfied them that it had belonged to Hayes. The apprehension of the murderers
was the result. On the day they were brought up for examination, the trunk and limbs of the
murdered man were found. Wood and Billings confessed and pleaded guilty. Katherine Hayes put
herself on her country, was tried and convicted. Wood died in prison. Billings was hanged in
Marylebone fields, near the pond in which Hayes's body had been concealed. Katherine Hayes
was executed at Tyburn, under circumstances of great horror; for, in consequence of the fire
reaching the executioner's hands, he left his hold of the rope with which he ought to have
strangled the criminal, before he had executed that part of his duty, and the result was, that
Katherine Hayes was burnt alive. The wretched woman was seen, in the midst of flames, pushing
the blazing faggots from her, whilst she yelled in agony. Fresh faggots were piled around her,
but a considerable time elapsed before her torments ended. She suffered on the 3rd of November,
1726. This tragedy forms the subject of a comic ballad which is attributed to Swift.

C. ROSS.

The communication of E. S. S. W. (Vol. ii., p. 6.), which is as interesting as it is shocking,
induces me to send you a short extract from Harrison's Derby and Nottingham Journal, or Midland
Advertiser. The number of this journal which is dated Thursday, September 23, 1779, contains
as follows:--

    "On Saturday two prisoners were capitally convicted at the Old Bailey
    of high treason, viz. They will receive sentence to be drawn on a
    hurdle to the place of execution; the woman to be burnt, and the man
    to be hanged."

I presume that the sentence which the woman underwent was not executed. The barbarous fulfilment
of such a law was, it may be hoped, already obsolete. The motives, however, upon which this
law was grounded is worth noting:--

    "In treason of every kind," says Blackstone, "the punishment of women
    is the same, and different from that of men.
    "But," says the foot-note, "by the statute 30 Geo. III. c. 48., women
    convicted in all cases of treason, shall receive judgment to be drawn
    to the place of execution, and there to be hanged by the neck till
    dead."

The law, therefore, under which a woman could be put to death by burning, was repealed in 1790.

This corroborates the conclusion of E. S. S. W., that the woman he describes was strangled
at the stake to which her neck was bound.

I wish to suggest to any of your legal or other well-informed correspondents, who will have
the kindness to take a little trouble for the benefit of your general readers, that an instructive
and interesting communication might be made by noting down the periods at which the various
more revolting punishments under the English law were repealed, or fell into disuse. For instance,
when torture, such as the rack, was last applied; when embowelling alive and quartering ceased
to be practised; and whose was the last head that fell under the axe's bloody stroke. A word
also on the use of the pillory, ducking-stool, stocks, &c. would interest. Any illustrations
of the modification of our penal code would throw valuable light on the philosophy and improvement
of the national character. And I believe it would appear that the Reformation gradually swept
away the black horrors of the torture-room; that the butchery of the headsman's block ceased
at the close of the civil contest which settled the line of regal succession; and that hanging,
which is the proper death of the cur, is now reserved for those only who place themselves out
of the pale of humanity by striking at human life.

ALFRED GATTY.

Ecclesfield.

E. S. S. W. (Vol. ii., p. 6.) will find a case of burning in Dodsley's Annual Register, 1769,
p. 117.: a Susannah Lott was burned for the murder of her husband at Canterbury, Benjamin Buss,
her paramour, being hanged about fifteen minutes before she was burned.

T. S. N.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Death-bed Mystery.--In conversation with an aged widow,--as devout and sensible as she is unlettered,--I
yesterday learned a death-bed mystery which appeared new to me, and which (if not more commonly
known than I take it to be) you may perhaps think worthy of a place in "NOTES AND QUERIES,"
to serve as a minor satellite to some more luminous communication, in reply to B. H. at Vol.
i., p. 315. My informant's "religio" (as she appears to have derived it by tradition from her
mother, and as confirmed by her own experience in the case of a father, a {52} husband, several
children, and others), is to the effect that a considerable interval invariably elapses between
the first semblance of death, and what she considers to be the departure of the soul.

About five minutes after the time when death, to all outward appearance, has taken place, "the
last breath," as she describes, may be seen to issue with a vapour, or "steam," out of the
mouth of the departed.

The statement reminds me of Webster's argument, in his Display of supposed Witchcraft, chap.
xvi., where, writing of the bleeding of corpses in presence of their murderers, he observes:

    "If we physically consider the union of the soul with the body by the
    mediation of the spirit, then we cannot rationally conceive that the
    soul doth utterly forsake that union, until by putrefaction, tending to
    an absolute mutation, it is forced to bid farewell to its beloved
    tabernacle; for its not operating ad extra to our senses, doth not
    necessarily infer its total absence. And it may be, that there is more
    in that of Abel's blood crying unto the Lord from the ground, in a
    physical sense than is commonly conceived," &c.

Sir Kenelm Digby (I think I remember) has also made some curious remarks on this subject, in
his observations on the Religio Medici of Sir T. Brown.

J. SANSOM.

Easter Eggs.-The custom of dyeing eggs at Easter (alluded to, Vol. i., pp. 244. and 397.) prevails
in different parts of Cumberland, and is observed in this city probably more specially than
in any other part of England. On Easter Monday and Tuesday the inhabitants assemble in certain
adjacent meadows, the children all provided with stores of hard-boiled eggs, coloured or ornamented
in various ways,--some being dyed an even colour with logwood, cochineal, &c.; others stained
(often in a rather elegant manner) by being boiled in shreds of parti-coloured ribbons; and
others, again, covered with gilding. These they tumble about upon the grass until they break,
when they finish off by eating them. These they call pace-eggs, being no doubt a corruption
for pasche.

This custom is mentioned by Brande as existing among the modern Greeks; but I believe it will
be found more or less in almost all parts of Christendom.

I observed when in Syria during Easter quantities of eggs similarly dyed; but it did not occur
to me at the time to inquire whether the practice was connected with the season, and whether
it was not confined to the native Christians.

Information upon this point, and also upon the general origin of this ancient custom, would
be interesting.

A SUBSCRIBER.

Carlisle, June 3. 1850.

