The tedious routine of the State Department did not suit the restless spirit of Robert Toombs.
He had established relations abroad as belligerents, and had placed the new government in touch
with its Southern neighbors. His dispatches were remarkable for brevity, clearness, and boldness;
his public papers are models of nervous style, but he longed for a more active field in the
revolution. He chafed under red-tape and convention. Toombs charged the new administration
with too much caution and timidity. He declared that ninety per cent of war was business, and
that the South must organize victory rather than trust entirety to fighting. He urged the government
to send over cotton to England and buy arms and ships forthwith. "Joe Brown," he impatiently
declared, "had more guns than the whole Confederacy. No new government," said he, "ever started
with such unlimited credit." Mr. Toombs believed that the financial part of the Confederacy
was a failure. "We could have whipped the fight," said he, in his impetuous way, "in the first
sixty days. The contest was haphazard from the first, and nothing but miraculous valor kept
it going." Mr. Toombs said that had he been President of the Confederacy, he would have mortgaged
every pound of cotton to France and England at a price that would have remunerated the planters,
and in consideration of which he would have secured the aid of the armies and navies of both
countries.

But Robert Toombs concluded that his place was in the field, not in the Cabinet. Too many prominent
men, he explained, were seeking bombproof positions. He received a commission as brigadier
general, and on the 21st of July, 1861, joined Generals Beauregard and Johnston at Manassas.

CHAPTER XXII.

BRIGADIER GENERAL IN ARMY OF NORTHERN VIRGINIA.

When Robert Toombs resigned the Cabinet and took the field, he still held the seat, as was
his prerogative, in the Confederate Congress. This body, like the British Parliament, sat in
chairs, without desks. One morning Congress was discussing the Produce Loan. By this measure,
invitations were given for contributions of cotton and other crops in the way of a loan. By
the terms of the act these articles were to be sold and the proceeds turned over to the Secretary
of the Treasury, who was to issue eight per cent bonds for them. This was an extraordinary
measure, and never really amounted to much. Colonel A. R. Lamar, at one time Secretary of the
Provisional Congress, relates that during this debate General Toombs walked into the hall.
"He was faultlessly attired in a black suit with a military cloak thrown over one shoulder
and a military hat in his left hand. He made a rattling speech against the measure. Drawing
himself up, he said: "Mr. Speaker, we have been told that Cotton is King, that he will find
his way to the vaults of the bankers of the Old World; that he can march up to the thrones
of mighty potentates, and drag from the arsenals of armed nations the dogs of war; that he
can open our closed ports, and fly our young flag upon all the seas. And yet, before the first
autumnal frost has blighted a leaf upon his coronet, he comes to this hall a trembling mendicant,
and says, 'Give me drink, Titinius, or I perish.'" The effect was magical; Colonel Lamar, in
commenting upon this dramatic incident, sums up the whole character of Robert Toombs:

"He was cautious and safe in counsel, while wild and exasperating in speech."

