    Patience, peevish worm!
    Are you in such a hurry, then, to writhe?

          [Fierce aside. (Here you draw the chair forward, and,
          placing yourself behind it, speak the following lines with easy
          fluency, accompanied by such pantomime as may suggest itself
          to you.)

    I crave your pardon for my tardiness,--
    Allow me to dispose these lendings--thus:

          [Here you shake out the wrapper.

    This band above the elbows--tighter--so.
    I do assure you, Sir, this is no gag--
    'Tis but a poor contrivance of mine own
    To guard the mouth against th' encroaching sud.
    Refreshing, Sir, indeed, this change of weather!
    But one more knot.... and now

          (here you stride to a position in front of the chair, which
          you survey with folded arms, and a mocking smile)

    --my feigning's done!

    Writhe as you will, I have you at my mercy.
    BALDWIN MCASSIR, have we met at last?

          [In a terrible voice.

    You know me not?--then quail, for I am he
    By you bereft of BANDOLINA'S love!
    Fear not that I would stoop to seek your life--
    My vengeance shall be sated on your hair,
    And that is doomed to perish past recall!
    Cast up your eyes to yonder whirling wheel:

          [Point to ceiling with air of command.

    Then on this brush--'tis set with bristling wires
    (Some frivoller termed it my Cheveux de Frizz),
    Which, with revolving teeth, shall shortly rake
    Those curls by BANDOLINA oft caressed,

          [With a cold sneer.

    You like the prospect? I have fluids here--
    "Elixirs to evolve the latent hair,"
    With others, christened (in some franker mood)
    "Depilatory Agents,"--scarce less potent:
    Upon your helpless head I'll pour them all!

          (Arm raised--savage and threatening aspect.)

    Nay, smile not thus defiance through your gag--
    I swear to lay that haughty crest so low,
    That never shall it soar in pride again!
    Enough of words--to action!... Still that smile--
    So bitter, yet so calm--it maddens me,
    I'll stay my hand no longer!--

          (violent plunge with right arm--after which you recoil and
                    seem to gaze aghast at some object you are holding)

    --juggling fiend!
    Was this the secret of your dauntless port?
    And could my practised eye be so deceived?

          (In a tone of lofty and dignified resignation.)

    Yet, seeing I am thus forestalled by Fate,
    I do renounce my purpose--since I must:
    Take back your wig, MCASSIR, go in peace.

          [Bitter scorn.

    Stay--while, in token that my heart is changed,
    I coax it into comeliness anew.
    Permit me to unloose you--you are free,
    And owe me but a trifle--eighteenpence,

          [Mournfully.

    Pay at the counter as you pass without.

          (Here you are supposed to watch your rival's exit with a gloomy
          scowl.)

    Thus ends my vengeance as some idle dream,
    Yet no--'tis but deferred, with interest!

          (You conclude with a bitter apostrophe to your intended
                    victim.)

    Back to your BANDOLINA, plumaged daw!
    Be bald, but resolute, in your disguise,
    Till haply on her honeymoon she learns
    How you have drawn her with that single hair,
    And I may be avenged! Till then, adieu!

          (Stalk gloomily off, and allow somebody else to remove
                    the chair.)

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE STUMP, IN TWO SENSES.--So the Parliamentary Session and the Cricket Season are over
at last, and contemporaneously. The latter has been productive of long scores and high averages,
the former of little but long speeches and low language. And now two teams of British Cricketers
are outward bound by the Iberia, for a holiday campaign in Australia. Nobody knows exactly
how many teams of slogging politicians are also going for their holiday campaign--"on the stump,"
all over the Kingdom. Mr. Punch wishes the two lots of willow-wielders, led respectively by
Mr. VERNON and ARTHUR SHREWSBURY, a far merrier time and much better "scores" than he fears
will fall to the lot of the peripatetic Parliamentarians.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HOME RULE CURE.--Mrs. M. understands that the only remedy possible for Irish complaints
is Antimony.

       *       *       *       *       *

GREAT NEWS FOR THE IMPECUNIOUS.

I have just received intelligence of so astounding a character and fraught with such glorious
results to the great majority of mankind, that, although I may be said to have partly promised
to keep the wondrous secret to myself until after I had turned the information to my own enormous
advantage, I do not hesitate to reveal to a delighted universe, information which, if true,
will so revolutionise the whole constitution of society, that every individual member of the
almost innumerable class of the indebted, will feel at once enfranchised from the demon that
now pursues him with his insatiable demand for more, and his poor oppressed soul will, as of
old, sing with joy. What then is this glorious discovery that is thus wondrously to relieve
the gentlemen of society from the base bondage of debt? I am naturally forbidden to reveal
all its minute details, but a general outline I feel justified in laying before the world.

My informant, then, who will be one of the very first to take advantage of the discovery directly
it has reached a practical stage, assures me that in an island somewhere in the Pacific Ocean,
named I rather think Ungyway, a discovery has been made of a Gold Mine of so extraordinary
a character that the precious metal lies in it in huge seams like those of a copper or lead mine.

Now comes the financial part of this great discovery. My friend has calculated that the money,
owing by the various respectable classes of society to whom I have already alluded, and the
great National Debt, could all be paid off for, say, a sum of 2000 millions. This somewhat
considerable amount could be raised from the Ungyway Gold Mine at a cost of two millions of
money only, and leave a large profit. The quantity of gold to be so raised would be a mere
trifle of 20,000 tons, which, at the fixed price of £3 17s. 10d. per ounce, at which price
the Bank of England is compelled to purchase any quantity offered to it, would be amply sufficient
for all the glorious purposes to which I have referred. The members of the class above alluded
to, would be permitted to purchase the quantity required by them to free them from their cruel
liabilities, at the cost price of the gold, so that a debt of £1,000 could be extinguished
by, say, an expenditure of twenty shillings! and the crushing National Debt by an immediate
payment of about £750,000! Away fly at once the iniquitous Income-Tax, and the duties on tea
and coffee, and wine and beer, and figs, and almonds and raisins!

No wonder that both France and Germany have been sending out expeditions to discover this Fortunate
Island, but all in vain; and long before these lines meet the gaze of my astonished readers,
the flag that has braved a thousand years the battle and the breeze will be fluttering bravely
on the topmost towers of Ungyway. I need scarcely add that we shall in future pay for all our
imports in gold, and send away our superabundant pauper population, native and foreign, each
with about one hundred golden sovereigns in his capacious pockets, the cost price of which
being about two shillings.

Of course the one thing to do before the great scheme is finally settled by Messrs. ROTHSCHILD
and BARING, will be to get largely into debt at the present price of gold, and pay it off at
the price of the future, and so, as ROBINSON says, spoil the Israelites; and so great is his
faith in the success of the scheme, that he actually offers to join me in the transaction,
and to obtain the money on our joint security. I am to give him my final answer on Saturday.

JOSEPH GREENHORN.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOY AND THE BEAR.

A Ballad of Bulgaria.

  It was the little Bulgar boy, and oh! it was the Bear,
  Whose affectionate relations were remarkable as rare;
  For the Bulgar boy of Bruin was the glory and the joy,
  And if anyone loved Bruin, 'twas that little Bulgar boy.
  It was very very touching, for your Bear, however good,
  Has seldom any liking for your boy--except as food;
  And your boy--or man--from feelings that humanity may blame,
  Has commonly no yearning for your Bear--unless as game.
  But this Bear--on his own showing--was a Bear of simple worth,
  He was not a western "Grizzly," but a Bruin from the North,
  Which we know is "true and tender," or at least so poets swear,
  And these Northern traits--who doubts it?--are conspicuous in the Bear.

  Had he not that boy befriended in the kindest sort of style,
  In a fashion full of valour, as 'twas destitute of guile,
  When a Bubblyjock gigantic from the Bosphorus who hailed,
  Had assaulted that small Bulgar boy, and--thanks to Bruin--failed?
  And all that Bear expected in return for what he'd done,
  (And who of such a sentiment will venture to make fun?)
  Was the gratitude, and confidence, and love, and--well subjection,
  Of the boy whom he had taken 'neath his
  paws--I mean protection.

  But alas for human nature, which is radically bad!
  (And conservatively sinful) this same little Bulgar lad,
  When he found himself in safety from that Stamboul Bubblyjock,
  Took and acted in a manner that humanity must shock,
  For says he, "Oh, thank you, Bruin dear,--and now I'll go and play,
  And I'll just select the game myself, and work it my own way.
  You were quite disinterested, for you said so your own self,
  And I'm sure you don't want power, and of course you can't seek pelf,
  At your little friend's expense, Bear. No, I thank you very much,
  You have made a free boy of me--and I mean to act as such."

  So he ups and makes selection, this ungratefullest of boys,
  Of his soldiers, and his swords and guns, and crowns, and other toys;
  And when Bruin put his paw down in expostulation vain,
  The Bulgar boy suggested he should--take it up again.

  You may easily imagine gentle Bruin's sore disgust,
  At this sad reciprocation of his fondness and his trust.
  Says he, "This little rascal is just rushing on his ruin,
  For his only place of safety is the guardian arms of Bruin."
  And sundry other animals, and birds, and things, agreed with him,
  And cried, "The boy is mad, Bear; we must preach to him, and plead
    with him.
  Ay, even if 'tis needful, though against our natures mild,
  We must--well, we mustn't spare the rod, and spoil the--Bulgar--child."
  There were several Eagles thought this way; the Lion didn't quite,
  But he had a sort of feeling that this fight was not his fight;
  And the Bubblyjock at Stamboul was found acting with the Bear,
  From rather mingled motives, which that fowl did not declare.

  Well, the Bulgar boy persisting still in making his own game,
  The Bear assumes a sternness it is difficult to blame,
  From the Bruin point of view, at least, for strength must be put forth
  Now and then, e'en by a (so-called) Divine Figure from the North.
  And so Bruin rears his carcase, and his sanctimonious "mug,"
  Takes a menacing expression, "Come," he cries, "into my hug,
  And be happy, naughty Bulgar boy; what can you have to fear?"
  And the rest of the Menagerie of Europe say, "Hear! hear!"

  But like another "little boy," of whom you may have heard,
  With a cabalistic action as discourteous as absurd,
  (The Bulgar boy maintains it means no more than prudent doubt)
  He "puts his thumb unto his nose, and spreads his fingers out."

  Now whether Bear will bear it, after all his love and care,
  Or whether that small Bulgar boy will cave in to the Bear,
  And how those Birds, the Eagles and the Bubblyjock, will turn,
  Are questions none can answer now; but he who lives will learn.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: COSTUMES FOR THE RECESS.

       *       *       *       *       *

(NOT SO) BAD HOMBURG.

TRAVEL NOTES, FROM THE DIARY OF TOBY, M.P.

Homburg, Monday.--GEORGE TREVELYAN once told me that his eminent Uncle, having gone all abroad
to Dieppe, wrote to his sister, describing voyage from Dover by five groans. Our journey from
Dover to Calais might be described by five smiles. Sea not absolutely calm; but dancing waves,
curling in sunlight, nothing to Victoria--not our Gracious Sovereign, but Queen of L. C. &
D.'s fleet. Made passage smoothly and swiftly in little over hour. Railway journey hither,
by Brussels and Coblenz, pretty fair for le Continong, but not a patch on the L. C. D. Express
from Victoria Station to Dover. They manage some things better abroad; certainly not express
trains or express boats.

Arrived here to find it raining in torrents. Everybody said it hadn't rained for two months
before. Glad to hear this, but didn't keep us dry. Rain only just commenced; all the shops
and doorways thronged with people, in full summer costume; not an umbrella among twenty; forgotten
what rain was like; now forcibly reminded of its peculiarities. With intermission of one full
day, and occasional hours, been raining ever since. If it must rain, Homburg as good a place
to be in as most public haunts; lies within narrow compass; soil rapidly absorbent; if it rains
in torrents at ten o'clock, and sun afterwards comes out, roadways dry by noon. Then there
is the Kurhaus always open; palatial building, not to be outdone in size and beauty by Casino
at Monte Carlo; but sound of roulette tablets silent. The "game is made" for ever; on ne va
plus. Sometimes, on wet afternoons, there is found in the lofty, and otherwise cool room, one
or two elderly gentlemen, who play doleful game of écarté, poor shivering ghosts of departed
gamesters. Gambling played out, but there remain the magnificent halls. The Ball-room still
used, the music on the Terrace still listened to, the banqueting-hall still crowded, and the
gardens still glowing with roses, and shaded by lindens. Only disappointed gamesters who call
the place Bad Homburgs; even with the rain, it is not so bad after all.

By the way, talking of nature of soil, a dog I met here drawing milk-cart, told me curious
story. Homburg resorted to by invalids of both sexes and all conditions; take the waters inside
and out; but my friend told me of another cure not less remarkable. Soil of Homburg composed
of Fuller's-earth, warranted to absorb superfluous grease from cloth substances. Obese Englishman
hearing this on arrival, asked why this quality should be confined to application to cloth?
if Fuller's-earth took superfluous fat from piece of cloth, why not from body of stout Englishman?
Decided to solve question; dug hole in back-garden; lay in it for twenty minutes with loose
soil shovelled over him up to chin; repeated bath on alternate days for three weeks; end of
first week hole too roomy; end of second week had to be further filled in; end of third week
his clothes no use to him; had to lie in bed for three days whilst re-fitted. Went home quite
a slim person.

Prince of WALES still here when I arrived. Been the lifes and souls of the party for nearly
three weeks. "You here, TOBY?" says he, when we met on first morning; "is House up, then?"
"Not yet, Sir; but I've been all night. Doctor ordered me to be here at seven in morning; this
an immaterial extension to us who have been sitting up at Westminster every night of week till
three or four in morning. So had all-night sitting, and here I am punctually at seven o'clock."

Don't see how I'm going to keep it up though, through three weeks; must find some other way
of getting up at half-past six. Can't imagine how H.R.H. does it; but here he is every morning
at seven o'clock, taking his glasses of water with the rest of the "patients," and going the
regulation walk in the intervals. For an invalid, looks uncommonly robust; does his final four
miles well within the hour.

Saturday.--Rain again, but really so occupied with cure that haven't time to notice it, and
certainly can't let it interfere with Doctor's orders. No more all-night sittings now. End
of third went off to sleep at noon after bath. Didn't wake till six next morning, just in time
to dress and down to Elizabeth Well with the rest. Found this much better arrangement. So now
go to bed about nine in the afternoon; get up at 6.30 in dead of night. Arrived at Well, take
glass of water, then march up and down for fifteen minutes by Homburg clock. Another glass
and another fifteen minutes; a third glass, and hour's walk; after which allowed to totter
home, and breakfast. Amount of things you are not to eat and drink amazing; some of them never
tasted in my life; now strongly tempted. But hotels under sceptre of Doctor DEETZ. He watches
unseen over table d'hôte, and prevents most nice things from coming to dinner.

After breakfast (bread, tea, or coffee, no butter, much less mild breakfast bacon), bath on
alternate days, between eleven and noon. Something like a bath; on first investigation, seems
bottomless; but plummet reaches conclusion at last. Here sit up to the chin for twenty minutes,
shivering at thought of what would happen supposing bath sprang a leak. Luncheon at one, strictly
supervised; between three and five, more tumblers of water at another Well, with more vigorous
walks round and round, as if you were looking for the Post Office, couldn't find it, and began
to feel certain you would miss the next despatch. Dinner at six, with the shadow of the good
Doctor DEETZ pervading the place, and ordering off all the toothsome dishes. Afterwards a stroll
in the Kurhaus, where the band is playing, and men, maids, and matrons, not all quite so young
as they were, chatter and flirt.

Such is our life in Homburg, enlivened, about a fortnight ago, by great scandal, which wild
horses shall not drag from me. But ask any lady fresh from Homburg. Will, at first, say, "No,
she really can't; too painful," and so on. But après, le déluge of confidence.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOME NOTES AT STARMOUTH.

In Professor SKITTLES' chair--with the sun in my eyes. He has not begun to read my character
yet; he is still measuring--with tape this time. I must say he takes great pains. Blazer contingent
has moved up closer; they pretend to recognise me as "Cousin BILL." Take no notice of them--try
to fix my thoughts far away--on ETHEL DERING. How pretty she looked that night! Wonder, if
I had plucked up my courage and spoken, whether she might not have----However, I didn't, and
she couldn't. How full is life of these missed opportunities! ("You're leaving out his nose,
Guv'nor!" from a Blazer, and giggles from idiotic girls in front.) I feel very forlorn and
friendless up here. Professor has finished measuring, and is preparing to "delineate" me.

Cross my legs, and compose myself to listen seriously. ("Cheer up, Sir; he'll tell you when
he's going to 'urt you!" yelps a beast in the background.)

"Here we 'ave a gentleman," says the Professor, passing his hand along the top of my head,
"in some respects rather a contrast to our last subject." (I should hope so, indeed!) "This
gentleman's 'ed is the second largest we have had under examination to-day." ("'Ear-'ear!"
from the Blazers, and a meaningless suggestion that I should "make a good 'atter!") "His Mental
Brain is scarcely so large as we might expect; in fact, if the development of the lower brain
were in proportion, we should find the gentleman--well, I was going to say, an idiot. Fortunately
the brain, though not tall, is wide. He has Firmness, Energy, and what we call Driving Power,
very large. This is a very curious gentleman"--("Oughter be stuffed!" puts in a ruffian, and
everybody laughs--even the Professor--confound him!--smiles indulgently.) "He likes to go everywhere,
and see everything. He can sit down to a good dinner, and enjoy it." (Shouldn't have thought
that a rare characteristic--but it delights the audience.) "His Self-Esteem is large." (There
he is quite wrong--I haven't nearly enough!) "Acquisitiveness also large; this gentleman believes
in getting the full value for his money." (Don't believe I shall get it here, at all events!)
"He is very cheerful and social." ("Don't he look it, too!" from a Blazer, and, of course,
roars of laughter.) "In fact, if he were a little less social, it would be better." (This to
me--who have come down here for absolute seclusion. This Professor is a fool!) "He will be
fond of his children and of his wife." ("And can't she comb his 'air for him!" from the usual
quarter. I am a bachelor, and this sort of thing is getting scandalous.) Professor says, "I
must appeal to this gentleman's friends"--(this gentleman's "friends!")--"to keep a little
more quiet while we are delineating. There is very small Eventuality--we should like to see
a little more Eventuality--he must try to cultivate his Eventuality." (Indeed? Perhaps he will
kindly tell me how I am to set about it!) "Approbativeness large; so we shall see him very
anxious to gain the good opinion of others." (When I don't care a straw what people say of
me! Phrenology is bosh--absolute bosh!) "Destructiveness small; this is not a gentleman who
will do very much damage." (Sighs of mock relief from Blazers.) "Nor is he, we should find,
particularly combative." ... ("You 'aven't seen 'im of a Saturday night," interrupts some vulgar
brute.) Psha!--I won't listen; regard the audience with calm reproach. What a face that is
on the second bench! what a pair of brown eyes!--kind of eyes Juliet must have had. ETHEL'S
are light grey--what a serious, simple expression! She is not giggling, like all those fools--I
could almost fancy she feels for me. How superior she seems to all the rest. ETHEL DERING herself
could not look more exquisitely out of place. In fact, I am not sure that ETHEL would keep
her countenance so well as this girl, who is bending forward with parted lips, and that sweet,
interested light in her eyes.... I am getting sentimental. Was Romeo ever "delineated"? Professor
is summing me up--I may as well listen.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: July yet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: Row me O!

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: "Parting is such sweet sorrow." Shakspeare.

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustration: "Here's for thy panes." Shakspeare.

       *       *       *       *       *

"This is a gentleman of excellent business ability, and I should say he would be perfectly
capable of managing a tolerably large business concern." ("Then how was it he got the sack
from the 'am-and-beef shop?" inquired one of the pests.) "He is pushing and energetic, and
he would get on well--even in a 'olesale business." (He is growing absolutely fulsome!) "If
in business for himself, we shall not find him in a hurry to shut up his shop exactly at the
hour of closing, if he thinks he could make more by keeping open a little longer." (Considering
that I am in Government employ, with a decided leaning to literary pursuits, which has not,
as yet, met with much support--this is rather too much, but it would be snobbish, perhaps,
to say anything.) "I may add," concludes the Professor, with the air of a man who is conceding
somewhat, "that this gentleman would be qualified to succeed, would do very well, as an artistic
decorator. Are there any questions you would like to ask?"

Not after that--no, none; I haven't the heart to ask him if he thinks I could write even a
creditable Nautical Drama! Besides, my faith in Phrenology is shaken. Let me get away--out
of sight and hearing of these infernal Blazers.

Rise and leave with ironical dignity. Professor calls me back--thinks I forgot to pay my shilling.
Annoying, because it had escaped me. "You didn't tell us he had a bump for bilking!" jeers
a fiend--"bilking," I believe, is 'Arryan for going away without paying. Ironical dignity a
failure. "Will I pay half-a-crown extra, and have a written report of my character?" I will
not. Blazers seem sorry to part with me.

Afternoon.--Too much depressed to work at Drama. Sands again. Crowd--Conjuror. I shall see
this time. "I want a soft gentleman's hat," he says, suddenly. "Do you mind?" He takes mine--the
crowd roar. "Will I assist him in this trick?" I did not mean to catch his eye--but I don't
like to be disobliging.

I am in the centre with the Conjuror. "May he do what he pleases with my hat?" "By all means,"
I say, graciously. Then he'll keep it, he says. Childish joke that! "You're quite sure there's
no hole in it?" he asks. I am not, I tell him, in the habit of wearing a hat with a hole in
it. "Ain't you really? how do you get your head in?" he retorts, sharply. Very old--but Starmouth
people easily amused.

"Do I ever toss for drinks?" No, I do not. Then he will show me how to do so, and win every
time. He tosses up a penny on the little table, and covers it with my hat. "Which do I think
it is?" I say heads--to please him. Again. "Now, Sir, heads or tails?" I happen to have seen
it fall head uppermost--but no doubt he has manipulated it some way--if I say tails, he will
look rather foolish. Tails, then. Will I lift my hat? I do--a guinea-pig! Renewed roars. I
ought to be above feeling annoyed at this tomfoolery--but these conjuring fellows go too far.

Evening,--On Pier. Military Band. Bazaar: ladies and children touting for it. Wonder whether
my "Firmness" is as large as Professor SKITTLES declared.--Because I certainly never intended
to buy a box of cracker-bonbons, or a basket of ripe tomatoes--and yet here I am, carrying
them about! And when I took a ticket for a raffle, I hardly counted upon winning this particularly
gaudy sofa-cushion. Clergyman wants to sell me a very small plumcake, only three shillings....
I find I can be firm after all.

The girl with the brown eyes is on the pier, too, with a stout respectable old female--probably
her maid. I think they recognise me as the victim of Phrenology; they glance at me with interest.
Ah me! I wish--I wish, but what is the use of wishing?

In the Bazaar again. Young lady proposes to tell me my fortune for a penny, with a revolving
card. I am in a superstitious mood--I want encouraging. She spins the card; the dial indicates,
as she informs me, with unnecessary glee, "You spend your time in trifles."--Is a Nautical
Drama a "trifle," I should like to know? I can't be quite the thing, for this incident affects
me almost to tears. I have had a depressing day. Bed in low spirits.