"Us went to church wid our white folks 'cause dere warn't no colored churches dem days. None
of de churches 'round our part of de country had meetin' evvy Sunday, so us went to three diffunt
meetin' houses. On de fust Sunday us went to Captain Crick Baptist church, to Sandy Crick Presbyterian
church on second Sundays, and on third Sundays meetin' was at Antioch Methodist church whar
Marster and Mistess was members. Dey put me under de watchkeer of deir church when I was a
mighty little gal, 'cause my white folks sho b'lieved in de church and in livin' for God; de
larnin' dat dem two good old folks gimme is done stayed right wid me all through life, so far,
and I aims to live by it to de end. I didn't sho 'nough jine up wid no church 'til I was done
growed up and had left Marse Gerald; den I jined de Cedar Grove Baptist church and was baptized
dar, and dar's whar I b'longs yit.

"Marster was too old to wuk when dey sot us free, so for a long time us jus' stayed dar and
run his place for him. I never seed none of dem Yankee sojers but one time. Marster was off
in Jefferson and while I was down at de washplace I seed 'bout 12 men come ridin' over de hill.
I was sho skeered and when I run and told Mistess she made us all come inside her house and
lock all de doors. Dem Yankee mens jus' rode on through our yard down to de river and stayed
dar a little while; den dey turned around and rid back through our yard and on down de big
road, and us never seed 'em no more.

"Soon atter dey was sot free Niggers started up churches of dey own and it was some sight to
see and hear 'em on meetin' days. Dey would go in big crowds and sometimes dey would go to
meetin's a fur piece off. Dey was all fixed up in deir Sunday clothes and dey walked barfoots
wid deir shoes acrost deir shoulders to keep 'em from gittin' dirty. Jus' 'fore dey got to
de church dey stopped and put on deir shoes and den dey was ready to git together to hear de
preacher.

"Folks don't know nothin' 'bout hard times now, 'specially young folks; dey is on de gravy
train and don't know it, but dey is headed straight for 'struction and perdition; dey's gwine
to land in dat burnin' fire if dey don't mind what dey's about. Jus' trust in de Lord, Honey,
and cast your troubles on Him and He'll stay wid you, but if you turns your back on Him, den
you is lost, plumb gone, jus' as sho as shelled corn.

"When us left Marse Gerald and moved nigh Athens he got a old Nigger named Egypt, what had
a big fambly, to live on his place and do all de wuk. Old Marster didn't last long atter us
was gone. One night he had done let his farm hands have a big cornshuckin' and had seed dat
dey had plenty of supper and liquor to go wid it and, as was de custom dem days, some of dem
Niggers got Old Marster up on deir shoulders and toted him up to de big house, singin' as dey
went along. He was jus' as gay as dey was, and joked de boys. When dey put him down on de big
house porch he told Old Mistess he didn't want no supper 'cept a little coffee and bread, and
he strangled on de fust bite. Mistess sont for de doctor but he was too nigh gone, and it warn't
long 'fore he had done gone into de glory of de next world. He was 'bout 95 years old when
he died and he had sho been a good man. One of my nieces and her husband went dar atter Marse
Gerald died and tuk keer of Mistess 'til she went home to glory too.

"Mammy followed Old Mistess to glory in 'bout 3 years. Us was livin' on de Johnson place den,
and it warn't long 'fore me and George Kinney got married. A white preacher married us, but
us didn't have no weddin' celebration. Us moved to de Joe Langford place in Oconee County,
but didn't stay dar but one year; den us moved 'crost de crick into Clarke County and atter
us farmed dar 9 years, us moved on to dis here place whar us has been ever since. Plain old
farmin' is de most us is ever done, but George used to make some mighty nice cheers to sell
to de white folks. He made 'em out of hick'ry what he seasoned jus' right and put rye split
bottoms in 'em. Dem cheers lasted a lifetime; when dey got dirty you jus' washed 'em good and
sot 'em in de sun to dry and dey was good as new. George made and sold a lot of rugs and mats
dat he made out of plaited shucks. Most evvybody kep' a shuck footmat 'fore deir front doors.
Dem sunhats made out of shucks and bulrushes was mighty fine to wear in de field when de sun
was hot. Not long atter all ten of our chillun was borned, George died out and left me wid
dem five boys and five gals.

"Some old witch-man conjured me into marryin' Jordan Jackson. Dat's de blessed truth, Honey;
a fortune-teller is done told me how it was done. I didn't want to have nothin' to do wid Jordan
'cause I knowed he was jus' a no 'count old drinkin' man dat jus' wanted my land and stuff.
When he couldn't git me to pay him no heed hisself, he went to a old conjure man and got him
to put a spell on me. Honey, didn't you know dey could do dat back in dem days? I knows dey
could, 'cause I never woulda run round wid no Nigger and married him if I hadn't been witched
by dat conjure business. De good Lord sho punishes folks for deir sins on dis earth and dat
old man what put dat spell on me died and went down to burnin' hell, and it warn't long den
'fore de spell left me.

"Right den I showed dat no 'count Jordan Jackson dat I was a good 'oman, a powerful sight above
him, and dat he warn't gwine to git none of dis land what my chillun's daddy had done left
'em. When I jus' stood right up to him and showed him he warn't gwine to out whack me, he up
and left me and I don't even use his name no more 'cause I don't want it in my business no
way a t'all. Jordan's done paid his debt now since he died and went down in dat big old burnin'
hell 'long wid de old witch man dat conjured me for him.

"Yes, Honey, de Lord done put it on record dat dere is sho a burnin' place for torment, and
didn't my Marster and Mistess larn me de same thing? I sho does thank 'em to dis day for de
pains dey tuk wid de little Nigger gal dat growed up to be me, tryin' to show her de right
road to travel. Oh! If I could jus' see 'em one more time, but dey can look down from de glory
land and see dat I'se still tryin' to follow de road dat leads to whar dey is, and when I gits
to dat good and better world I jus' knows de Good Lord will let dis aged 'oman be wid her dear
Marster and Mistess all through de time to come.

"Trust God, Honey, and He will lead you home to glory. I'se sho enjoyed talkin' to you, and
I thanks you for comin'. I'se gwine to ax Him to take good keer of you and let you come back
to cheer up old Nicey again." A gate through an old-fashioned picket fence led into a spacious
yard where dense shade from tall pecan trees was particularly inviting after a long walk in
the sweltering heat.

An aged mulatto woman was seated on the narrow porch. Her straight white hair was arranged
in braids, and her faded print dress and enormous checked apron were clean and carefully patched.
A pair of dark colored tennis shoes completed her costume. She arose, tall and erect, to greet
her visitor. "Yessum, dis here's Julia Larken," she said with a friendly smile. "Come right
in, Chile, and set here and rest on my nice cool porch. I knows you's tired plumb out. You
shouldn't be out walkin' 'round in dis hot sun--It ain't good for you. It'll make you have
brain fever 'fore you knows it."

When asked for the story of her life, Julia replied: "Lordy, Chile, did you do all dis walkin',
hot as it is today, jus' to hear dis old Nigger talk? Well, jus' let me tell you, dem days
back yonder 'fore de war was de happiest time of my whole life.

"I don't know much 'bout slavery, 'cause I was jus' a little gal when de war ended. I was borned
in war times on Marse Payton Sails' plantation, way off down in Lincoln County. My Ma was borned
and bred right dar on dat same place. Marster bought my Daddy and his Mammy from Captain LeMars,
and dey tuk de name of Sails atter dey come to live on his place. Mammy's name was Betsy Sails
and Daddy was named Sam'l. Dey was married soon atter Marster fetched Daddy dar.

"Dere ain't no tellin' how big Marster's old plantation was. His house set right on top of
a high hill. His plantation road circled 'round dat hill two or three times gittin' from de
big road to de top of de hill. Dere was a great deep well in de yard whar dey got de water
for de big house. Marster's room was upstairs and had steps on de outside dat come down into
de yard. On one side of his house was a fine apple orchard, so big dat it went all de way down
de hill to de big road.

"On de other side of de house was a large gyarden whar us raised evvything in de way of good
veg'tables; dere was beans, corn, peas, turnips, collards, 'taters, and onions. Why dey had
a big patch of nothin' but onions. Us did love onions. Dere was allus plenty of good meat in
Marster's big old smokehouse dat stood close by de well. Marster, he believed in raisin' heaps
of meat. He had cows, hogs, goats, and sheep, not to mention his chickens and turkeys.

"All de cloth for slaves' clothes was made at home. Mammy was one of de cooks up at de big
house, and she made cloth too. Daddy was de shoe man. He made de shoes for all de folks on
de plantation.

"De log cabins what de slaves lived in was off a piece from de big house. Dem cabins had rock
chimblies, put together wid red mud. Dere warn't no glass in de windows and doors of dem cabins--jus'
plain old home-made wooden shutters and doors." Julia laughed as she told of their beds. "Us
called 'em four posters, and dat's what dey was, but dey was jus' plain old pine posties what
one of de men on de plantation made up. Two posties at de head and two at de foot wid pine
rails betwixt 'em was de way dey made dem beds. Dere warn't no sto'-bought steel springs dem
days, not even for de white folks, but dem old cord springs went a long ways towards makin'
de beds comfortable and dey holped to hold de bed together. De four poster beds de white folks
slept on was corded too, but deir posties warn't made out of pine. Dey used oak and walnut
and sometimes real mahogany, and dey carved 'em up pretty. Some of dem big old posties to de
white folkses beds was six inches thick.

"Slaves all et up at de big house in dat long old kitchen. I kin jus' see dat kitchen now.
It warn't built on to de big house, 'cept it was at de end of a big porch dat went from it
to de big house. A great big fireplace was 'most all de way 'cross one end of dat kitchen,
and it had racks and cranes for de pots and pans and ovens but, jus' let me tell you, our Marster
had a cookstove too. Yessum, it was a real sho' 'nough iron cookstove. No'm, it warn't 'zactly
lak de stoves us uses now. It was jus' a long, low stove, widout much laigs, jus' flat on top
wid eyes to cook on. De oven was at de bottom. Mammy and Grandma Mary was mighty proud of dat
stove, 'cause dere warn't nobody else 'round dar what had a cookstove so us was jus' plumb
rich folks.

"Slaves didn't come to de house for dinner when dey was wukin' a fur piece off in de fields.
It was sont to 'em, and dat was what kilt one of my brothers. Whilst it was hot, de cooks would
set de bucket of dinner on his haid and tell him to run to de field wid it fore it got cold.
He died wid brain fever, and de doctor said it was from totin' all dem hot victuals on his
haid. Pore Brudder John, he sho' died out, and ever since den I been skeered of gittin' too
hot on top of de haid.

"Dere was twelve of Mammy's chillun in all, countin' Little Peter who died out when he was
a baby. De other boys was John, Tramer, Sam'l, George, and Scott. De only one of my brothers
left now is George, leastwise I reckon he's livin' yet. De last 'count I had of him he was
in Chicago, and he must be 'bout a hundred years old now. De gals was me and Mary, 'Merica,
Hannah, Betsy, and Emma.

"'Fore Grandma Mary got too old to do all de cookin', Mammy wuked in de field. Mammy said she
allus woke up early, and she could hear Marster when he started gittin' up. She would hurry
and git out 'fore he had time to call 'em. Sometimes she cotch her hoss and rid to the field
ahead of de others, 'cause Marster never laked for nobody to be late in de mornin'. One time
he got atter one of his young slaves out in de field and told him he was a good mind to have
him whupped. Dat night de young Nigger was tellin' a old slave 'bout it, and de old man jus'
laughed and said: 'When Marster pesters me dat way I jus' rise up and cuss him out.' Dat young
fellow 'cided he would try it out and de next time Marster got atter him dey had a rukus what
I ain't never gwine to forgit. Us was all out in de yard at de big house, skeered to git a
good breath when us heared Marster tell him to do somepin, 'cause us knowed what he was meanin'
to do. He didn't go right ahead and mind Marster lak he had allus been used to doin'. Marster
called to him again, and den dat fool Nigger cut loose and he evermore did cuss Marster out.
Lordy, Chile, Marster jus' fairly tuk de hide off dat Nigger's back. When he tried to talk
to dat old slave 'bout it de old man laughed and said: 'Shucks, I allus waits 'til I gits to
de field to cuss Marster so he won't hear me.'

"Marster didn't have but two boys and one of 'em got kilt in de war. Dat sho'ly did hurt our
good old Marster, but dat was de onliest diffunce de war made on our place. When it was over
and dey said us was free, all de slaves stayed right on wid de Marster; dat was all dey knowed
to do. Marster told 'em dey could stay on jus' as long as dey wanted to, and dey was right
dar on dat hill 'til Marster had done died out and gone to Glory.

"Us chillun thought hog killin' time wes de best time of all de year. Us would hang 'round
de pots whar dey was rendin' up de lard and all day us et dem good old browned skin cracklin's
and ash roasted 'taters. Marster allus kilt from 50 to 60 hogs at a time. It tuk dat much meat
to feed all de folks dat had to eat from his kitchen. Little chillun never had nothin' much
to do 'cept eat and sleep and play, but now, jus' let me tell you for sho', dere warn't no
runnin' 'round nights lak dey does now. Not long 'fore sundown dey give evvy slave chile a
wooden bowl of buttermilk and cornpone and a wooden spoon to eat it wid. Us knowed us had to
finish eatin' in time to be in bed by de time it got dark.

"Our homespun dresses had plain waisties wid long skirts gathered on to 'em. In hot weather
chillun wore jus' one piece; dat was a plain slip, but in cold weather us had plenty of good
warm clothes. Dey wove cotton and wool together to make warm cloth for our winter clothes and
made shoes for us to wear in winter too. Marster evermore did believe in takin' good keer of
his Niggers.

"I kin ricollect dat 'fore dere was any churches right in our neighborhood, slaves would walk
8 and 10 miles to church. Dey would git up 'way 'fore dawn on meetin' day, so as to git dar
on time. Us wouldn't wear our shoes on dem long walks, but jus' went barfoots 'til us got nearly
to de meetin' house. I jus' kin 'member dat, for chillun warn't 'lowed to try to walk dat fur
a piece, but us could git up early in de mornin' and see de grown folks start off. Dey was
dressed in deir best Sunday go-to-meetin' clothes and deir shoes, all shined up, was tied together
and hung over deir shoulders to keep 'em from gittin' dust on 'em. [HW in margin: Sunday clothing]
Men folks had on plain homespun shirts and jeans pants. De jeans what deir pants was made out
of was homespun too. Some of de 'omans wore homespun dresses, but most of 'em had a calico
dress what was saved special for Sunday meetin' wear. 'Omans wore two or three petticoats all
ruffled and starched 'til one or dem underskirts would stand by itself. Dey went barfoots wid
deir shoes hung over deir shoulders, jus' lak de mens, and evvy 'oman pinned up her dress and
evvy one of her petticoats but one to keep 'em from gittin' muddy. Dresses and underskirts
was made long enough to touch de ground dem days. Dey allus went off singin', and us chillun
would be wishin' for de time when us would be old enough to wear long dresses wid starched
petticoats and go to meetin'. Us chillun tried our best to stay 'wake 'til dey got home so
us could hear 'em talk 'bout de preachin' and singin' and testifyin' for de Lord, and us allus
axed how many had done jined de church dat day.

"Long 'fore I was old enough to make dat trip on foot, dey built a Baptist church nearby. It
was de white folkses church, but dey let deir own Niggers join dar too, and how us chillun
did love to play 'round it. No'm, us never broke out no windows or hurt nothin' playin' dar.
Us warn't never 'lowed to throw no rocks when us was on de church grounds. De church was up
on top of a high hill and at de bottom of dat hill was de creek whar de white folks had a fine
pool for baptizin'. Dey had wooden steps to go down into it and a long wooden trough leadin'
from de creek to fill up de pool whenever dere was baptizin' to be done. Dey had real sermons
in dat church and folks come from miles around to see dem baptizin's. White folks was baptized
fust and den de Niggers. When de time come for to baptize dem Niggers you could hear 'em singin'
and shoutin' a long ways off.

"It jus' don't seem lak folks has de same sort of 'ligion now dey had dem days, 'specially
when somebody dies. Den de neighbors all went to de house whar de corpse was and sung and prayed
wid de fambly. De coffins had to be made atter folks was done dead. Dey measured de corpse
and made de coffin 'cordin'ly. Most of 'em was made out of plain pine wood, lined wid black
calico, and sometimes dey painted 'em black on de outside. Dey didn't have no 'balmers on de
plantations so dey couldn't keep dead folks out long; dey had to bury 'em de very next day
atter dey died. Dey put de corpse in one wagon and de fambly rode in another, but all de other
folks walked to de graveyard. When dey put de coffin in de grave dey didn't have no sep'rate
box to place it in, but dey did lay planks 'cross de top of it 'fore de dirt was put in. De
preacher said a prayer and de folks sung Harps from de Tomb. Maybe several months later dey
would have de funeral preached some Sunday.

"Us had all sorts of big doin's at harvest time. Dere was cornshuckin's, logrollin's, syrup
makin's, and cotton pickin's. Dey tuk time about from one big plantation to another. Evvy place
whar dey was a-goin' to celebrate tuk time off to cook up a lot of tasty eatments, 'specially
to barbecue plenty of good meat. De Marsters at dem diffunt places allus seed dat dere was
plenty of liquor passed 'round and when de wuk was done and de Niggers et all dey wanted, dey
danced and played 'most all night. What us chillun laked most 'bout it was de eatin'. What
I 'member best of all is de good old corn risin' lightbread. Did you ever see any of it, Chile?
Why, my Mammy and Grandma Mary could bake dat bread so good it would jus' melt in your mouth.

"Mammy died whilst I was still little and Daddy married again. I guess his second wife had
a time wid all of us chillun. She tried to be good to us, but I was skeered of her for a long
time atter she come to our cabin. She larnt me how to make my dresses, and de fust one I made
all by myself was a long sight too big for me. I tried it on and was plumb sick 'bout it bein'
so big, den she said; 'Never mind, you'll grow to it.' Let me tell you, I got dat dress off
in a hurry 'cause I was 'most skeered to death for fear dat if I kept it on it would grow to
my skin lak I thought she meant. [HW in margin: Humor] I never put dat dress on no more for
a long time and dat was atter I found out dat she jus' meant dat my dress would fit me atter
I had growed a little more.

"All us chillun used to pick cotton for Marster, and he bought all our clothes and shoes. One
day he told me and Mary dat us could go to de store and git us a pair of shoes apiece. 'Course
us knowed what kind of shoes he meant for us to git, but Mary wanted a fine pair of Sunday
shoes and dat's what she picked out and tuk home. Me, I got brass-toed brogans lak Marster
meant for us to git. 'Bout half way home Mary put on her shoes and walked to de big house in
'em. When Marster seed 'em he was sho' mad as a hornet, but it was too late to take 'em back
to de store atter de shoes had done been wore and was all scratched up. Marster fussed: 'Blast
your hide, I'm a good mind to thrash you to death.' Mary stood dar shakin' and tremblin', but
dat's all Marster ever said to her 'bout it. Us heared him tell Mist'ess dat dat gal Mary was
a right smart Nigger.

"Marster had a great big old bull dat was mighty mean. He had real long horns, and he could
lift de fence railin's down one by one and turn all de cows out. Evvy time he got out he would
fight us chillun, so Marster had to keep him fastened up in de stable. One day when us wanted
to play in de stable, us turned Old Camel (dat was de bull) out in de pasture. He tuk down
rails enough wid his horns to let de cows in Marster's fine gyarden and dey et it all up. Marster
was wuss dan mad dat time, but us hid in de barn under some hay 'til he went to bed. Next mornin'
he called us all up to git our whuppin', but us cried and said us wouldn't never do it no more
so our good old Marster let us off dat time.

"Lak I done said before, I stayed on dar 'til Marster died, den I married Matthew Hartsfield.
Lordy, Chile, us didn't have no weddin'. I had on a new calico dress and Matthew wore some
new blue jeans breeches. De Reverend Hargrove, de white folks preacher, married us and nobody
didn't know nothin' 'bout it 'til it was all over. Us went to Oglethorpe County and lived dar
19 years 'fore Matthew died. I wuked wid white folks dar 'til I married up wid Ben Larken and
us come on here to Athens to live. I have done some wuk for 'most all de white folks 'round
here. Ben's grandpappy was a miller on Potts Creek, nigh Stephens, and sometimes Ben used to
have to go help him out wid de wuk, atter he got old and feeble.

"Dey's all gone now and 'cept for some nieces, I'm left all alone. I kin still mind de chillun
and even do a little wuk. For dat I do give thanks to de Good Lord--dat he keeps me able to
do some wuk.

"Goodbye Chile," said Julia, when her visitor arose to leave. "You must be more keerful 'bout
walkin' 'round when de sun is too hot. It'll make you sick sho'. Folks jus' don't know how
to take de right sort of keer of deyselves dese days."

[HW: Dist. 5 Ex-Slave #67 E.F. Driskell 12/31/36]

[HW: GEORGE LEWIS] [Date Stamp: MAY 2- --]

Mr. George Lewis was born in Pensacola, Florida December 17, 1849. In addition to himself and
his parents, Sophie and Charles Lewis, there were thirteen other children; two of whom were
girls. Mr. Lewis (Geo.) was the third eldest child.

Although married Mr. Lewis' parents belonged to different owners. However, Dr. Brosenhan often
allowed his servant to visit his wife on the plantation of her owner, Mrs. Caroline Bright.

In regard to work all of the members of the Lewis clan fared very well. The father, who belonged
to Dr. Brosenhan, was a skilled shipbuilder and he was permitted to hire himself out to those
needing his services. He was also allowed to hire [HW: out] those children belonging to him
who were old enough to work. He was only required to pay his master and the mistress of his
children a certain percent of his earnings. On the Bright plantation Mrs. Lewis served as maid
and as part of her duties she had to help with the cooking. Mr. Lewis and his brothers and
sisters were never required to do very much work. Most of their time was spent in playing around
in the yard of the big house.

In answer to a query concerning the work requirements of the other slaves on this particular
plantation Mr. Lewis replied "De sun would never ketch dem at de house. By de time it wus up
dey had done got to de fiel'--not jes gwine. I've known men to have to wait till it wus bright
enough to see how to plow without "kivering" the plants up. Dey lef' so early in de mornings
dat breakfus' had to be sent to dem in de fiel'. De chillun was de ones who carried de meals
dere. Dis was de first job dat I had. All de pails wus put on a long stick an' somebody hold
to each end of de stick. If de fiel' hands was too far away fum de house at dinner time it
was sent to dem de same as de breakfus'".

All of the slaves on the plantation were awakened each morning by a bugle or a horn which was
blown by the overseer. The same overseer gave the signal for dinner hour by blowing on the
same horn. All were usually given one hour for dinner. None had to do any work after leaving
the fields unless it happened to be personal work. No work other than the caring for the stock
was required on Sundays.

A few years before the Civil War Mrs. Bright married a Dr. Bennett Ferrel and moved to his
home in Georgia (Troupe County).

Mr. Lewis states that he and his fellow slaves always had "pretty fair" food. Before they moved
to Georgia the rations were issued daily and for the most part an issue consisted of vegetables,
rice, beans, meat (pork), all kinds of fish and grits, etc.

"We got good clothes too says Mr. Lewis. All of 'em was bought. All de chillun wore a long
shirt until dey wus too big an' den dey was given pants an' dresses. De shoes wus made out
of red leather an' wus called brogans. After we moved to Georgia our new marster bought de
cloth an' had all de clothes made on de plantation. De food wus "pretty fair" here too. We
got corn bread an' biscuit sometimes--an' it was sometimes too--bacon, milk, all kinds of vegetables
an' sicha stuff like dat. De flour dat we made de biscuits out of was de third grade shorts."

The food on Sunday was almost identical with that eaten during the week. However, those who
desired to were allowed to hunt as much as they pleased to at night. They were not permitted
to carry guns and so when the game was treed the tree had to be cut down in order to get it.
It was in this way that the family larder was increased.

"All in all", says Mr. Lewis, "we got everything we wanted excep' dere wus no money comin'
for our work an' we couldn't go off de place unless we asked. If you wus caught off your plantation
without a permit fum marster de Paddy-Rollers whupped you an' sent you home."

The slaves living quarters were located in the rear of the "big house" (this was true of the
plantation located in Pensacola as well as the one in Georgia). All were made of logs and,
according to Mr. Lewis, all were substantially built. Wooden pegs were used in the place of
nails and the cracks left in the walls were sealed with mud and sticks. These cabins were very
comfortable and only one family was allowed to a cabin. All floors were of wood. The only furnishings
were the beds and one or two benches or bales which served as chairs. In some respects these
beds resembled a scaffold nailed to the side of a house. Others were made of heavy wood and
had four legs to stand upon. For the most part, however, one end of the bed was nailed to the
wall. The mattresses were made out of any kind of material that a slave could secure, burlap
sacks, ausenberg, etc. After a large bag had been made with this material it was stuffed with
straw. Heavy cord running from side to side was used for the bed springs. The end of the cord
was tied to a handle at the end of the bed. This pemitted the occupant to tighten the cord
when it became loosened. A few cooking utensils completed the furnishings. All illumination
was secured by means of the door and the open fire place.

All of the slaves on the plantation were permitted to "frolic" whenever they wanted to and
for as long a time as they wanted to. The master gave them all of the whiskey that they desired.
One of the main times for a frolic was during a corn shucking. At each frolic there was dancing,
fiddling, and eating. The next morning, however all had to be prepared to report as usual to
the fields.

All were required to attend church each Sunday. The same church was used by the slave owners
and their slaves. The owners attended church in the morning at eleven o'clock and the slaves
attended at three o'clock. A white minister did all of the preaching. "De bigges' sermon he
preached", says Mr. Lewis, "was to read de Bible an' den tell us to be smart an' not to steal
chickens, eggs, an' butter, fum our marsters." All baptising was done by this selfsame minister.

When a couple wished to marry the man secured the permission of his intended wife's owner and
if he consented, a broom was placed on the floor and the couple jumped over it and were then
pronounced man and wife.

There was not a great deal of whipping on the plantation of Dr. Ferrel but at such times all
whippings were administered by one of the overseers employed on the plantation. Mr. Lewis himself
was only whipped once and then by the Doctor. This was just a few days before the slaves were
freed. Mr. Lewis says that the doctor came to the field one morning and called him. He told
him that they were going to be freed but that before he did free him he was going to let him
see what it was like to be whipped by a white man, and he proceeded to paddle him with a white
oak paddle.

When there was serious illness the slaves had the attention of Dr. Ferrel. On other occasions
the old remedy of castor oil and turpentine was administered. There was very little sickness
then according to Mr. Lewis. Most every family kept a large pot of "Bitters" (a mixture of
whiskey and tree barks) and each morning every member of the family took a drink from this
bucket. This supposedly prevented illness.

When the war broke out Mr. Lewis says that he often heard the old folks whispering among themselves
at night. Several times he saw the Northern troops as well as the Southern troops but he dos'nt
know whether they were going or coming from the scene of the fighting. Doctor Ferrel joined
the army but on three different occasions he deserted. Before going to war Dr. Ferrel called
Mr. Lewis to him and after giving him his favorite horse gave him the following "charge" "Don't
let the Yankees get him". Every morning Mr. Lewis would take the horse to the woods where he
hid with him all day. On several occasions Dr. Ferrel slipped back to his home to see if the
horse was being properly cared for. All of the other valuables belongings to the Ferrels were
hidden also.

All of the slaves on the plantation were glad when they were told that they were free but there
was no big demonstration as they were somewhat afraid of what the Master might do. Some of
them remained on the plantation while others of them left as soon as they were told that they
were free.

Several months after freedom was declared Mr. Lewis' father was able to join his family which
he had not seen since they had moved to Georgia.

When asked his opinion of slavery and of freedom Mr. Lewis said that he would rather be free
because to a certain degree he is able to do as he pleases, on the other hand he did not have
to worry about food and shelter as a slave as he has to do now at times. The old Negress was
tired and while resting she talked of days long passed and of how things have changed since
she was "a little gal."

"My pa wuz William Young, and he belonged to old Marse Wylie Young and later to young Marse
Mack Young, a son of old marster. Pa wuz born in 1841, and he died in 1918.

"Ma wuz Lula Lumpkin, and she belonged to Marse Jack Lumpkin. I forgits de year, but she wuz
jus' 38 years old when she died. Ma's young mistis wuz Miss Mirriam Lumpkin, and she wuz sho'
good ter my ma. I 'members, 'cause I seed her lots of times. She married Marse William Nichols,
and she ain't been dead many years.

"I wuz born at Steebens (Stephens), Georgia, in 1862 at seben 'clock in de mornin' on de 27th
day of April. Yassum, I got here in time for breakfast. Dey named me Mirriam Young. When I
wuz 'bout eight years old, us moved on de Bowling Green road dat runs to Lexin'ton, Georgia.
Us stayed dar 'til I wuz 'bout 10 years old, den us moved to de old Hutchins place. I wukked
in de field wid my pa 'til I wuz 'bout 'leben years old. Den ma put me out to wuk. I wukked
for 25 dollars a year and my schoolin'. Den I nussed for Marse George Rice in Hutchins, Georgia.
I think Marse George and his twin sister stays in Lexin'ton now. When I wuz twelve, I went
to wuk for Marse John I. Callaway. Ma hired me for de same pay, 25 dollars a year and my schoolin'.

"Missus Callaway sho' wuz good to me. Sha larnt me my books--readin' and writin'--and sewin',
knittin', and crochetin'. I still got some of de wuk dat she larnt me to do." At this point
Aunt Merry proudly displayed a number of articles that she had crocheted and knitted. All were
fashioned after old patterns and showed fine workmanship. "Mistis larnt me to be neat and clean
in evvything I done, and I would walk 'long de road a-knittin' and nebber miss a stitch. I
just bet none of dese young folkses now days could do dat. Dey sho' don't do no wuk, just run
'round all de time, day and night. I don't know what'll 'come of 'em, lessen dey change deir ways.

"Whilst I wuz still nussin' Missis' little gal and baby boy dey went down to Buffalo Crick
to stay, and dey give me a pretty gray mare. She wuz all mine and her name wuz Lucy.

"I tuk de chillun to ride evvy day and down at de crick, I pulled off dey clo'es and baptized
'em, in de water. I would wade out in de crick wid 'em, and say: 'I baptizes you in de name
of de Fadder and de Son and de Holy Ghost.' Den I would souse 'em under de water. I didn't
know nobody wuz seein' me, but one mornin' Missis axed me 'bout it and I thought she mought
be mad but she just laughed and said dat hit mought be good for 'em, 'cause she 'spect dey
needed baptizin', but to be keerful, for just on t'other side of de rock wuz a hole dat didn't
have no bottom.

"Dere wuz just two things on de place dat I wuz 'fraid of, and one wuz de big registered bull
dat Marster had paid so much money for. He sho' wuz bad, and when he got out, us all stayed
in de house 'til dey cotched 'im. Marster had a big black stallion dat cost lots of money.
He wuz bad too, but Marster kept 'im shut up most of de time. De wust I ever wuz skeert wuz
de time I wuz takin' de baby to ride horseback. When one of de Nigger boys on de place started
off on Marster's horse, my mare started runnin' and I couldn't stop 'er. She runned plumb away
wid me, and when de boy cotched us, I wuz holdin' de baby wid one hand and de saddle wid t'other.

"I sho' did have a big time once when us went to Atlanta. De place whar us stayed wuz 'bout
four miles out, whar Kirkwood is now, and it belonged to Mrs. Robert A. Austin. She wuz a widder
'oman. She had a gal name' Mary and us chillun used to play together. It wuz a pretty place
wid great big yards, and de mostes' flowers. Us used to go into Atlanta on de six 'clock 'commodation,
and come home on de two 'clock 'commodation, but evvythings changed now.

"At de Callaway place us colored folks had big suppers and all day dinners, wid plenty to eat--chicken,
turkey, and 'possum, and all de hogs us wanted. But dere warnt no dancin' or fightin', 'cause
old Missis sho' didn't 'low dat.

"I married when I wuz sebenteen. I didn't have no weddin'. I wuz just married by de preacher
to Albert McCommons, at Hutchins. Us stayed at Steebens 'bout one year after us married and
den come to Athens, whar I stays now. I ain't never had but two chillun; dey wuz twins, one
died, but my boy is wid me now.

"I used to nuss Miss Calline Davis, and she done got married and left here, but I still hears
from 'er. She done married one of dem northern mens, Mr. Hope. I 'members one time whilst dey
wuz visitin' I stayed wid 'em to nuss deir baby. One of Mr. Hope's friends from New York wuz
wid 'em. When dey got to de train to go home, Miss Calline kissed me good-bye and de yankee
didn't know what to say. Miss Calline say de yankees 'low dat southern folks air mean to us
Niggers and just beat us all de time. Dey just don't know 'cause my white folkses wuz all good
to me, and I loves 'em all."

As the interviewer left, Aunt Merry followed her into the yard asking for a return visit and
promising to tell more, "bout my good white folkses." The small front yard was gay with snapdragons,
tiger lilies, dahlias, and other colorful flowers, and the two-story frame house, painted gray
with white trimmings seemed to be in far better repair than the average Negro residence.

Chewing on a cud of tobacco, Ed answered the knock on his front door. "Good evenin' Lady,"
he said. "Have a cheer on de porch whar it's cool." Ed is about five feet, six inches in height,
and on this afternoon he was wearing a blue striped shirt, black vest, gray pants and black
shoes. His gray hair was topped by a soiled gray hat.

Nett, his wife, came hobbling out on the porch and sat down to listen to the conversation.
At first the old man was reluctant to talk of his childhood experiences, but his interest was
aroused by questioning and soon he began to eagerly volunteer his memories. He had just had
his noon meal and now and then would doze a little, but was easily aroused when questions called
him back to the subject.

"I was borned in Oconee County," he said, "jus' below Watkinsville. My Ma and Pa was Louisa
and Henry McCree, but Old Marster called Pa 'Sherm' for short. Far as I ever heared, my Ma
and Pa was borned and brung up right dar in Oconee County. Dere was six of us chillun: Silas,
Lumpkin, Bennie, Lucy, Babe, and me. Babe, she was borned a long time atter de war.

"Little Niggers, what was too young to wuk in de fields, toted water to de field hands and
waited on de old 'omans what was too old to wuk in de craps. Dem old 'omans looked atter de
babies and piddled 'round de yards.

