Of Tunbridge Wells, as an olden and modern resort, we have very recently spoken,[6] and we
are happy to perceive that the association of the place with the literary characters of the
last century, as pleasantly recorded by Samuel Richardson, has been turned to interesting account
in the pages before us. Cumberland, the dramatist, we omitted to mention, not only resided
for some years, but wrote many of his works, at Tunbridge Wells: and here he recognised the
sterling talent of Dowton, the comedian, who, through Cumberland, was first introduced to the
London stage. "One of the houses at Mount Ephraim, (at the Wells,) adjoining the Tunbridge
Ware manufactory, formerly belonged to the infamous judge Jeffries;" and an adjoining house
was built by Sir Edmund King, physician to Charles II., and his frequent residence here probably
attracted the court. The antiquities of the environs are very attractive. On a lofty knoll
are the remains of an ancient encampment, called Saxon-bury Castle, from its name, ascribed
to the Saxons; a neighbouring spot bears the name of Dane's Gate, and is supposed to be part
of an old trackway or military road. "On Edridge Green continued, for many years, a curious
mortar or large gun, said to have been the first made in England. The tradition is that it
was cast at Buxted furnace about twelve miles north of Lewes. It is preserved in the British
Museum; and some account of it, with a print, is given in the Archaeologia, vol. x. p. 472."
Next is the estate of Edridge, among the lords of which were Godwin, Earl of Kent and the Earl
of Montaigne and Cornwall: Mayfield, was possessed by the see of Canterbury before the Norman
conquest, and at its palace Sir Thomas Gresham lived in sumptuous style, and probably entertained
Queen Elizabeth in one of her progresses; among the curiosities here the anvil, hammer, and
tongs, which are traditionally said to have belonged to the noted St. Dunstan, "and, who is
also said to have used the last instrument most ungallantly, and even brutishly, in twinging
the nose of Old Nick, who tempted the immaculate prelate in the form of a fine lady;" Bayham,
or Bageham Abbey, about 6 miles south-east of the Wells, was a monastery of great extent in
1200, but is now so dilapidated and overgrown as scarcely to enable the antiquary to trace
its architectural features: here too is an immense pollard ash-tree, which Gough describes,
in his additions to Camden's Britannia, as being "several yards in girth, as old, if not older,
than the abbey, and supposed to be the largest extant." Mr. Britton likewise noticed here a
curious instance of ivy, which has not only covered nearly the whole surface of the (abbey)
building, but has insinuated its treacherous branches into the joints and crevices of the masonry.
"The wood," says our observant author, "has grown to a great size, and displaced columns, mouldings,
mullions, &c. and thus overturned and destroyed the very objects it was intended to adorn."
What a picture is this of the wild luxuriance of nature devastating the trim and chiselled
glories of art! Next is Scotney Castle, the ancient part of which is said to have been a fortress
in the reign of Richard II.; the moat still remains. The author hints that the tour may be
advantageously extended to Bodiam Castle; Winchelsea, near which is Camber, one of the fortresses
built by Henry VIII. to guard the south coast; Battle Abbey, founded by William the Norman,
and calling up in review the battle of Hastings, and the Bayeaux tapestry; the Roman fort of
Pevensey; and Hurstmonceaux Castle built by Roger Fiennes, treasurer to King Henry VI. Returning
to the Wells, and in the more immediate vicinity, are Somer Hill, whose chase, manor, and appurtenances
were conveyed by Queen Elizabeth to her favourite Dudley, Earl of Leicester, and subsequently
to the widow of the magnanimous but ill-fated Earl of Essex; also, Great Bounds, of the age
of Elizabeth, and conveyed to her relative Henry Cary, Lord Hunsden. Come we then to Tunbridge
Castle, built by De Tonbridge, a kinsman of the Conqueror, who came with the invaders to share
the spoil of their victory: "here, it is said, he congregated his retainers and vassals. These
were all called into active service soon after the death of William I.," for De Tonbridge,
(or Earl Clare, as he had been created,) espoused the cause of Robert Curtoise, in opposition
to William Rufus, who had seized the crown. The castle is described by Mr. Britton with interesting
and not dry-as-dust minuteness, although only some dilapidated and almost undefinable fragments
remain. Tunbridge Priory and the Free Grammar School are next mentioned, the latter in connexion
with Dr. Vicesimus Knox, who was master of the school for some years.

    [6] See Mirror, vol. xiv. p. 66, and vol. xviii. p. 225.

Let us hope that the frequenters of the Wells will not, in their grave moments, forget the
olden glory of Penshurst, about six miles N.W. of the gay resort,--Penshurst, as Mr. Britton
terms it, "the memorable, the once splendid, but now sadly dilapidated mansion of the Sydneys,"
or as Charlotte Smith sung with touching simplicity, in 1788:

                             Upon this spot,
  Ye towers sublime, deserted now and drear,
    Ye woods deep sighing to the hollow blast!
  The musing wand'rer loves to linger near,
    While History points to all your glories past.

Yet, how can we enumerate the ancient fame of Penshurst in this brief memoir; from Sir John
de Poulteney, who first embattled the mansion in the reign of Edward II:, to Sir John Shelley
Sydney, the present proprietor of the estate; or how can we here describe the mansion, wherein
that pains-taking investigator, Mr. Carter, in 1805, recognised the architectural characteristics
of the reigns of Henry II., Richard III., Henry VIII., Elizabeth, James I. and George I. and
III. But we must observe, "it is presumed, that whilst residing here, Henry VIII. became acquainted
with Anne Boleyn, then living with her father at Hever Castle, in this neighbourhood." Among
the more glorious events of the place, is the birth of the amiable Sir Philip Sydney here,
Nov. 29, 1554, as Spencer dignified him, "the president of nobleness and chivalrie;" the celebrated
Algernon; and his daughter, the Saccharissa of Waller. In this romantic retreat, Sydney probably
framed his Arcadia; here he may have sung

  O sweet woods, the delight of solitariness!
  O how much do I like your solitariness.

Enough of the baronial hall at Penshurst has been spared to show the lantern for ventilation
in the roof, "the original fire-hearth beneath it, with a large and-iron for sustaining the
blazing log;" though of the place generally, Mr. Britton observes, "A house that has been so
long deserted by its masters must exhibit various evidences of ruin and decay. Not only walls,
roofs, and timbers, but the interior furniture and ornaments are assailed by moth, rust, and
other destructive operations." Alas! the fittest scene of Burke's lament for chivalry would
have been the hall of Penshurst. Yet, a Sir Philip Sydney exists, and has lately been honoured
with some distinction, as Churchill would say, "flowing from the crown." In the park at Penshurst,
is, however, one of Nature's memorials of one of her proudest sons--"a fine old oak tree, said
to have been planted at Sir Philip Sydney's birth:" and in Penshurst churchyard, on the south
side of the mansion, several of the Sydneys lie sleeping. Requiescant in pace.

Hever Castle, built in the reign of Edward III., already mentioned as the residence of the
Boleyns, is about four miles north-west of Penshurst.

We have left ourselves but space to mention in the vicinity of the Wells, Buckhurst and Knole,
magnificent seats of the Sackvilles, Earls of Dorset, whose splendid details have already filled
volumes. Lastly, we promise the Wells visiter some gratification, by extending his tour to
Brambletye House, memorialized in Horace Smith's entertaining novel. These few traits may serve
to show the picturesqueness of the environs of the Wells, and consequently of Mr. Britton's
volume; and we leave the reader with their grateful impression on his memory.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO CAROLINE, VISCOUNTESS VALLETORT.

WRITTEN AT LACOCK ABBEY, JANUARY, 1832.

By Thomas Moore, Esq.

  When I would sing thy beauty's light,
  Such various forms, and all so bright,
  I've seen thee, from thy childhood, wear,
  I know not which to call most fair,
  Nor 'mong the countless charms that spring
  For ever round thee, which to sing.

  When I would paint thee, as thou art,
  Then all thou wert comes o'er my heart,--
  The graceful child, in beauty's dawn,
  Within the nursery's shade withdrawn,
  Or peeping out,--like a young moon
  Upon a world 'twill brighten soon.
  Then next, in girlhood's blushing hour,
  As from thy own loved Abbey-tower
  I've seen thee look, all radiant, down,
  With smiles that to the hoary frown
  Of centuries round thee lent a ray,
  Chacing ev'n Age's gloom away;--
  Or, in the world's resplendent throng,
  As I have mark'd thee glide along,
  Among the crowds of fair and great
  A spirit, pure and separate,
  To which even Admiration's eye
  Was fearful to approach too nigh;--
  A creature, circled by a spell
  Within which nothing wrong could dwell,
  And fresh and clear as from the source,
  Holding through life her limpid course,
  Like Arethusa through the sea,
  Stealing in fountain purity.

  Now, too, another change of light!
  As noble bride, still meekly bright,
  Thou bring'st thy Lord a dower above
  All earthly price, pure woman's love;
  And show'st what lustre Rank receives,
  When with his proud Corinthian leaves
  Her rose, too, high-bred Beauty weaves.
  Wonder not if, where all's so fair,
  To choose were more than bard can dare;
  Wonder not if, while every scene
  I've watch'd thee through so bright hath been,
  Th' enamour'd Muse should, in her quest
  Of beauty, know not where to rest,
  But, dazzled, at thy feet thus fall,
  Hailing thee beautiful in all!

Metropolitan.

       *       *       *       *       *

PROGRESS OF CRIME.

(From a paper in Fraser's Magazine, entitled the Schoolmaster in Newgate--evidently from the
hand of a shrewd observer, and the result of considerable experience and laborious investigation.)

By a reference to the Old Bailey session calendar, it will be seen that about 3,000 prisoners
are annually committed to Newgate, making little short of 400 each session, of which there
are eight in a year. Out of the gross number, about 350 are discharged by proclamation. Of
these nothing can be said, as they must be considered innocent of the crimes with which they
were charged, there not being primâ facie evidence to send them on their trials. There remain
2,550 who are tried, with the progressive increase of 4-7ths annually. Some persons have supposed
this accumulation of offenders bears a regular proportion to the progress of population. As
well may they assert that the demand for thieves in society regulates the supply, as in other
markets of merchandise. The cause is in the maladministration of the laws--the sending out
so many old offenders every session to teach and draw in the more juvenile and less experienced
hands--with the uncertainty of punishment, by the inequality of sentences for crimes of a like
nature--to which may be added the many instances of mistaken, or rather mis-directed leniency,
compared with others of enormous severity for trifling offences; all which tend to induce the
London thieves to entertain a contempt for that tribunal. An opinion prevails throughout the
whole body, that justice is not done there. I do not mean to say they complain of the sentences
being too severe generally; that would be natural enough on their parts, and not worth notice.
They believe everything done at that court a matter of chance; that in the same day, and for
a like crime, one man will be sentenced to transportation for life, while another may be let
off for a month's imprisonment, and yet both equally bad characters.

It only needs that punishment should be sure to follow the conviction for crime, and that the
judgments should be uniform and settled, to strike terror into the whole body of London criminals.
Out of the 2,550 annually tried, nearly one-fourth are acquitted, leaving little short of 2,000
for sentence in each year. Of these the average transported are 800; deduct 200 for cases of
an incidental nature, i.e. crimes not committed by regular offenders, and there remain 1,000
professed thieves who are again turned loose in a short period on the town, all of whom appear
in due course again at the court of the Old Bailey, or at some other, many times in the revolution
of one year. Here lies the mischief. An old thief will be sure to enlist others to perpetuate
the race. There is no disguising the fact: the whole blame is with the court whose duty it
is to take cognizance of these characters. Whilst the present system is pursued, of allowing
so many old offenders to escape with trifling punishments, the evils will be increased, and
the business of the court go on augmenting, by its own errors. The thief is now encouraged
to speculate on his chances--in his own phraseology, "his good luck." Every escape makes him
more reckless. I knew one man who was allowed a course of seventeen imprisonments and other
punishments before his career was stopped by transportation; a sentence which does, however,
sooner or later overtake them, and which would be better both for themselves and the country
were it passed the first time they were in the hands of the court as known thieves. Observing
only a certain, and nearly an equal, number transported each session, they have imbibed a notion,
that the recorder cannot exceed it, and that he selects those to whom he takes a dislike at
the bar, not for the magnitude of their offence, but from caprice or chance. It is under this
impression they are afraid of speaking when in court, lest they should give offence, and excite
petulance in the judge, which would, in their opinion, inevitably include them in the devoted
batch of transports, of which their horror is inconceivable; 1st, because many have already
undergone the punishment; and 2dly, all who have not are fully aware of the privations to which
it subjects them. Their anxious inquiry regarding every particular relating to the treatment,
is a strong manifestation of their uneasiness on this subject. Yet Mr. Wontner and Mr. Wakefield
(says the Quarterly reviewer) think neither transportation nor the hulks have any terrors for
them. How they come to this opinion, I cannot imagine. If they draw their inference from the
noise and apparent mirth of the prisoners when they leave Newgate for the hulks, I think their
premises false.

