BLACKWOOD'S
  EDINBURGH MAGAZINE.

  No. CCCLX. OCTOBER, 1845. Vol. LVIII.

  CONTENTS.

  Montesquieu,                                           389
  A Reminiscence of Boyhood. By Delta,                   408
  De Burtin on Pictures,                                 413
  Manner and Matter,                                     431
  Marston; or, the Memoirs of a Statesman. Conclusion.   439
  How we Got Up the Glenmutchkin Railway,                453
  The Science of Languages. Kavanagh,                    467
  Scrambles in Monmouthshire,                            474
  Neapolitan Sketches,                                   486
  A Meditation,                                          494
  On the Old Year,                                       495
  Corali,                                               ib.

No. CCCLX. OCTOBER, 1845. Vol. LVIII.

MONTESQUIEU.

Montesquieu is beyond all doubt the founder of the philosophy of history. In many of its most
important branches, he has carried it to a degree of perfection which has never since been
surpassed. He first looked on human affairs with the eye of philosophic observation; he first
sought to discover the lasting causes which influence the fate of mankind; he first traced
the general laws which in every age determine the rise or decline of nations. Some of his conclusions
were hasty; many of his analogies fanciful; but he first turned the human mind in that direction.
It is by repeatedly deviating into error that it can alone be discovered where truth really
lies: there is an alchemy in the moral, not less than in the material world, in which a vast
amount of genius must be lost before it is discovered that it has taken the wrong direction.
But in Montesquieu, besides such occasional and unavoidable aberrations, there is an invaluable
treasure of profound views and original thought--of luminous observation and deep reflection--of
philosophic observation and just generalization. His fame has been long established; it has
become European; his sayings are quoted and repeated from one end of the world to the other;
but to the greater part of English readers, his greatness is known rather from the distant
echo of continental fame, than from any practical acquaintance with the writings from which
it has arisen.

Though Montesquieu, however, is the father of the philosophy of history, it is due to Tacitus
and Machiavel to say, that he is not the author of political thought. In the first of these
writers is to be found the most profound observations on the working of the human mind, whether
in individuals or bodies of men, that ever were formed by human sagacity: in the latter, a
series of remarks on Roman history, and the corresponding events in the republics of modern
Italy, which, in point of deep political wisdom and penetration, never were surpassed. Lord
Bacon, too, had in his Essays put forth may maxims of political truth, with that profound sagacity
and unerring wisdom by which his thoughts were so preeminently distinguished. But still these
men, great as they were, and much as they added to the materials of the philosophy of history,
can hardly be said to have mastered that philosophy itself. It was not their object to do so;
it did not belong to the age in which they lived to make any such attempt. They gave incomparable
observations upon detached points in human annals, but they did not take a general view of
their tendency. They did not consider whence the world had come, or whither it was going. They
formed no connected system in regard to the march of human events. They saw clearly the effects
of particular measures or systems of government at the time, but they did not reflect on the
chain of causes which first raised up, and afterwards undermined it. Aristotle, the most powerful
intellect of the ancient world, was of the same calibre as a political observer. He considered
only the effects of the various forms of government which he saw established around him. In
that survey he was admirable, but he never went beyond it. Bossuet's Universal History is little
more than a history of the Jews; he refers every thing to the direct and immediate agency of
Providence, irrespective of the freedom of the human will. Montesquieu first fixed his eyes
upon the rise, progress, and decay of nations, as worked out by the actions of free agents.
The Grandeur et Décadence des Romains is as original as the Principia, and laid the foundation
of a science as sublime, and perhaps still more important to man than the laws of the planetary
bodies.

Charles Secondat, Baron de la Brede and Montesquieu, was born at the chateau of La Brede, near
Bourdeaux, on the 18th January 1689. The estate of La Brede had been long in his family, which
was a very ancient one; it had been erected into a barony in favour of Jacob de Secondat, his
great-great-grandfather, by Henry IV. The office of President of the Parliament (or Local Court
of Justice) of Bourdeaux, had been acquired by his family in consequence of the marriage of
his father with the daughter of the first president of that tribunal. From his earliest years
young Montesquieu evinced remarkable readiness and vivacity of mind; a circumstance which determined
his father to breed him up to the "magistracy," as it was termed in France--a profession midway,
as it were, between the career of arms peculiar to the noble, and the labours of the bar confined
to persons of plebeian origin, and from which many of the greatest men, and nearly all the
distinguished statesmen of France took their rise. Montesquieu entered with the characteristic
ardour of his disposition into the studies suited for that destination; and at the age of twenty
he had already collected the materials of the Esprit des Loix, and evinced the characteristic
turn of his mind for generalization, by an immense digest which he had made of the civil law.
But these dry, though important studies, did not exclusively occupy his mind; he carried on,
at the same time, a great variety of other pursuits. Like all men of an active and intellectual
turn of mind, his recreation was found not in repose, but in change of occupation. Books of
voyages and travels were collected, and read with avidity; he devoured rather than read the
classical remains of Greece and Rome. "That antiquity," said he, "enchants me, and I am always
ready to say with Pliny--You are going to Athens; show respect to the gods."

It was under this feeling of devout gratitude to the master minds of the ancient world, that
he made his first essay in literature, which came out in a small work in the form of letters,
the object of which was to show, that the idolatry of most Pagans did of itself not merit eternal
damnation. Probably there are few good Christians, from Fénélon and Tillotson downwards, who
will be of an opposite opinion. Even in that juvenile production are to be found traces of
the sound judgment, correct taste, and general thought which characterised his later works.
But he was soon thrown into the proper labours of his profession. On the 24th February 1714,
he was admitted into the parliament of Bourdeaux as a councillor; and his paternal uncle, who
held the president's chair, having died two years after, young Montesquieu was, on the 13th
July 1716, appointed to that important office, though only twenty-seven years of age. Probably
his being thrown thus early in life into the discharge of onerous and important duties, had
an important effect in producing that firmness and maturity of judgment by which his mind was
subsequently distinguished. Some years afterwards, he gave a convincing proof of his fitness
for the situation, in the vigour with which he remonstrated against the imposition of a fresh
tax on wine, which had the effect of procuring its removal at the time, though the necessities
of government led to its being reimposed some years after. But his ardent mind was not confined
to professional pursuits. He concurred in the formation of an academy of sciences at Bourdeaux,
and read some papers in it on natural history; and his attention being in this way turned to
physical science, he wrote and published in the journals, a project for a "Physical History
of the Earth, Ancient and Modern."

But in no human being was more completely exemplified the famous line--

    "The proper study of mankind is man."

Montesquieu's genius was essentially moral and political; it was on man himself, not the material
world with which he was surrounded, that his thoughts were fixed. This strong bent soon appeared
in his writings. He next read at the academy at Bourdeaux, a "Life of the Duke of Berwick,"
and an "Essay on the Policy of the Romans in Religion," which was the basis of the immortal
work which he afterwards composed on the rise and fall of that extraordinary people. These
desultory essays gave no indication of the first considerable work which he published, which
was the famous Lettres Persanes. They appeared in 1721, when he was thirty-two years of age.
Their success was immediate and prodigious; a certain indication in matters of thought, that
they were not destined to durable fame. They fell in with the ideas and passions of the time;
they were not before it; thence their early popularity and ultimate oblivion. The work was
published anonymously; for the keen but delicate satire on French manners and vices which it
contained, might have endangered the author, and as it was he had no small difficulty, when
it was known he was the writer, in escaping from its effects. It consists in a series of letters
from an imaginary character, Usbeck, a Persian traveller, detailing the vices, manners, and
customs of the French metropolis. The ingenuity, sarcasm, and truth, which that once celebrated
production contains, must not make us shut our eyes to its glaring defects; the vices of the
age, as they mainly contributed to its early popularity, have been the chief cause of its subsequent
decline. It contains many passages improperly warm and voluptuous, and some which, under the
mask of attacks on the Jesuits, had the appearance, at least, of being levelled at religion
itself. No work, at that period, could attract attention in France which was not disfigured
by these blemishes. Even the great mind of Montesquieu, in its first essay before the public,
did not escape the contagion of the age.

But, erelong, the genius of this profound thinker was devoted to more congenial and worthy
objects. In 1726, he sold his office of president of the parliament of Bourdeaux, partly in
order to escape from the toils of legal pursuit and judicial business, which, in that mercantile
and rising community, was attended with great labour; partly in order to be enabled to travel,
and study the institutions and character of different nations--a pursuit of which he was passionately
fond, and which, without doubt, had a powerful effect in giving him that vast command of detached
facts in political science, and that liberal view of institutions, habits, and manners, differing
in some degree from his own, by which his philosophical writings are so eminently distinguished.
Here, as in the biography of almost all other really great men, it is found, that some circumstances
apparently trivial or accidental have given a permanent bent to their mind; have stored it
with the appropriate knowledge, and turned it, as it were, into the allotted sphere, and contributed
to form the matrix in which original thought was formed, and new truth communicated by Providence
to mankind. In the course of his travels, which lasted several years, he visited successively
Austria, Hungary, Italy, Switzerland, the Rhine, Flanders, Holland, and England--in the latter
of which he lived two years. During these varied travels, he made notes on all the countries
which he visited, which contributed largely to the great stock of political information which
he possessed. These notes are still extant; but, unfortunately, not in such a state of maturity
as to admit of publication.

On his return to France, which took place in 1732, he retired to his native chateau of La Brede,
and commenced in good earnest the great business of his life. Great and original as this work--the
most perfect of all his compositions--was, it did not give vent to the whole ideas which filled
his capacious mind. Rome, great as it was, was but a single state; it was the comparison with
other states, the development of the general principles which run through the jurisprudence
and institutions of all nations, which occupied his thoughts. The success which attended his
essay on the institutions and progress of a single people, encouraged him to enlarge his views
and extend his labours. He came to embrace the whole known world, civilized and uncivilized,
in his plan; and after fourteen years of assiduous labours and toil, the immortal "Spirit of
Laws" appeared.

The history of Montesquieu's mind, during the progress of this great work, is singularly curious
and interesting. At times he wrote to his friends that his great work advanced "à pas de géant;"
at others, he was depressed by the slow progress which it made, and overwhelmed by the prodigious
mass of materials which required to be worked into its composition. So distrustful was he of
its success, even after the vast labour he had employed in its composition, that he sent his
manuscript before publication to a friend on whose judgment he could rely--Helvetius. That
friend, notwithstanding all his penetration, was so mistaken in his reckoning, that he conceived
the most serious disquietude as to the ruin of Montesquieu's reputation by the publication
of such a work. Such was his alarm that he did not venture to write to the author on the subject,
but gave the manuscript to another critic, Saurin, the author of a work entitled Spartacus,
long since extinct, who passed the same judgment upon it. Both concurred in thinking that the
reputation of Montesquieu would be entirely ruined by the publication of the new manuscript;
the brilliant author of the semi-voluptuous, semi-infidel Lettres Persanes, would sink into
a mere Legist, a dull commentator on pandects and statutes, if he published the Esprit des
Loix, "That," said Helvetius, "is what afflicts me for him, and for humanity, which he was
so well qualified to have served." It was agreed between them that Helvetius should write to
Montesquieu to give him an account of their joint opinion, that he should not give the work
to the world in its present state. Saurin, with some reason, was afraid that Montesquieu would
be hurt at their communication; but Helvetius wrote to him--"Be not uneasy; he is not hurt
at our advice; he loves frankness in his friends. He is willing to bear with discussions, but
answers only by sallies, and rarely changes his opinions. I have not given him ours from any
idea that he would either change his conduct or modify his preconceived ideas, but from a sense
of the duty of sincerity cost what it will, with friends. When the light of truth shall have
dispelled the illusions of self-love, he will at least not be able to reproach us with having
been less indulgent than the public."

Montesquieu, however, was not discouraged. He sent his manuscript to the press with hardly
any alteration, and took for his motto, Prolem sine matre creatam;[1] in allusion to the originality
of his conception, and the total want of any previous model on which it had been formed. The
work appeared in the month of July 1748; and its success, so far as the sale went, was prodigious.
Before two years had elapsed, it had gone through twenty-two editions, and been translated
into most of the European languages. This early success, rare in works of profound and original
thought, showed, that though it was in advance of the age, it was but a little in advance;
and that it had struck a key which was ready to vibrate in the national mind. Like all distinguished
works, if it was much read and admired by some, it was as keenly criticized and cut to pieces
by others. Madame de Deffand said it was not the Esprit des Loix he had written, but Esprit
sur les Loix. This expression made a great noise; it had a certain degree of truth, just enough,
when coupled with epigrammatic brevity, to make the fortune of the sayer. Encouraged by its
success, the enemies of original genius, ever ready to assail it, united their forces, and
Montesquieu was soon the object of repeated and envenomed attacks. It was said, that to establish
certain favourite theories, he availed himself of the testimony of travellers obscure and of
doubtful credit; that he leapt too rapidly from particulars to general conclusions; that he
ascribed to the influence of climate and physical laws what was in fact the result of moral
or political causes; that he had split the same subject into small chapters, so confusedly
arranged that there was no order or system in the work; that it was still incomplete, and wanted
the master-hand which was to put it together; and that it resembled the detached pieces of
a mosaic pavement, each of which is fair or brilliant in itself, but which have no meaning
or expression till disposed by the taste and skill of the artist. There was some truth in all
these criticisms; it is rare that it is otherwise with the reproaches made against a work of
original thought. Envy generally discovers a blot to hit. Malignity is seldom at a loss for
some blemish to point out. It is by exaggerating slight defects, and preserving silence on
great merits, that literary jealousy ever tries to work out its wretched spite. The wisdom
of an author is not to resent or overlook, but in silence to profit by such sallies; converting
thus the industry and envy of his enemies into a source of advantage to himself.

Montesquieu, in pursuance of these principles, passed over in silence the malignant attacks
of a herd of critics, whose works are now buried in the charnel-house of time, but who strove
with all the fury of envy and disappointment to extinguish his rising fame. When pressed by
some of his friends to answer some of these attacks, he replied--"It is unnecessary; I am sufficiently
avenged on some by the neglect of the public, on others by its indignation." The only instance
in which he deviated from this wise resolution was in replying to the attacks of an anonymous
critic, who, in a Journal entitled the Nouvelles Ecclesiastiques, had represented him as an
atheist. In his Lettres Persanes, though he had never assailed the great principles of his
religion, he had, in his sallies against the Jesuits, gone far to warrant the belief that he
was inclined to do so; and had already done enough in the estimation of the tyrannical and
bigoted ecclesiastics who at that period ruled the Church of France, to warrant his being included
in the class of infidel writers. But his mind, chastened by years, enlightened by travelling
and reflection, had come to cast off these prejudices of his age and country, the necessary
result of the Romish tyranny by which it had been oppressed, but unworthy of an intellect of
such grasp and candour. In the Protestant countries of Europe, particularly Holland and England,
he had seen the working of Christianity detached from the rigid despotism by which the Church
of Rome fetters belief, and the well-conceived appliances by which it stimulates imagination,
and opens a refuge for frailty. Impressed with the new ideas thus awakened in his mind, he
had in his Esprit des Loix pronounced a studious and sincere eulogium on Christianity; recommending
it, not only as the most perfect of all systems of religious belief, but as the only secure
basis of social order and improvement. It was material to correct the impression, partly just,
partly erroneous, which his earlier and more indiscreet writings had produced; and with this
view he wrote and published his Defence de l' Esprit des Loix. This little piece is a model
of just and candid reasoning, accompanied with a refined and delicate vein of ridicule, which
disarmed opposition without giving ground for resentment. He congratulated himself on the fine
satire with which he had overthrown his enemies.--"What pleases me in my Defence, is not so
much," said he, "to have floored the Ecclesiastics, as to have let them fall so gently." Posterity
will find a more valuable charm in this little production; it is, that the author in it has
unconsciously painted himself. His contemporaries have recorded, that in reading it they could
believe they heard the writer speak; and this proves that his talents in conversation had been
equal to those he displayed in writing--a combination very rare in persons of the highest class
in literature.

The fame of Montesquieu, great as it was in his own country, was even greater in foreign ones.
In Great Britain in particular, the Esprit des Loix early acquired a prodigious reputation.
It was read and admired by all persons of thought and education. This was partly the consequence
of England being so much in advance of France in the career of liberty--alike in matters civil
and ecclesiastical. The new ideas, hardy thoughts, and original conceptions of the great work
met with a ready reception, and cordial admiration, in the land of freedom and the Reformation--in
the country where meditation had so long been turned to political subjects, contemplation to
religious truth. But another cause of lasting influence also contributed to the same effect.
Original genius is ever more readily and willingly admired in foreign states than its own:
a prophet has no honour in his own country. He interferes too much with existing influences
or reputations. To foreigners, he is more remote--more like a dead man. Human vanity is less
hurt by his elevation.

The latter years of Montesquieu's life were spent almost entirely in retirement at his paternal
chateau of La Brede, varied occasionally by visits to the great world at Paris. He was occupied
in agriculture and gardening--tenacious of his seignorial rights, but indulgent to the last
degree to his tenantry, by whom he was adored. Never was exemplified in a more remarkable manner
the soothing influence of the recollections of a well-spent life on the felicity of its later
years, or the fountains of happiness which may be opened in the breast itself from the calm
serenity of conscious power and great achievement. He conversed much, with the farmers and
peasants on his estate, whose houses he frequently entered, and whose convivialities, on occasion
of a marriage or a birth, he seldom failed to attend. He often preferred their conversation
to that of persons their superiors in rank or information--"for," said he, "they are not learned
enough to enter into argument; they only tell you what they know, which frequently you do not
know yourself." Though he lived with the great when in Paris, partly from necessity, partly
from inclination, yet their society was noways necessary to his happiness. He flew as soon
as he could from their brilliant assemblies to the retirement of his estate, where he found
with joy, philosophy, books, and repose. Surrounded by the people of the country in their hours
of leisure, after having studied man in the intercourse of the world and the history of nations,
he studied it in those simple minds which nature alone had taught; and he found something to
learn there. He conversed cheerfully with them; like Socrates, he drew out their talents and
information; he appeared to take as much pleasure in their conversation as in that of the brilliant
circles by which he was courted in the capital; he terminated their disputes by his wisdom,
assuaged their sufferings by his beneficence.

In society he was uniformly affable, cheerful, and considerate. His conversation was light,
agreeable, and instructive, abounding with anecdotes of the great number of eminent men with
whom he had lived. Like his style in writing, it was brief, tranchant, and epigrammatic, full
of wit and observation, but without a particle of bitterness or satire. In common with all
men of the highest class of intellect, he was totally devoid of envy or jealousy. None more
readily applauded genius or merit in others, or was more desirous on all occasions to bring
it forward, and give it the due reward. No one recounted anecdotes with more vivacity, a happier
effect, or less tedium. He knew that the close of all such narratives contains in general all
that is pleasing in them; and therefore he hastened to arrive at it before the patience of
his hearers could be exhausted. He had a perfect horror at long stories. He was frequently
absent, and remained in society for some time wrapt in thought, without speaking; but never
failed, on such occasions, to make amends by some unexpected remark or anecdote, which revived
the languishing conversation. His mind was full: no subject could be mentioned on which he
was not informed; but he never brought his knowledge ostentatiously forward, and sought rather
to draw out those around him, and lead the conversation so as to make others shine, than to
do so himself.

He was regular and methodical in his life; and this arose not merely from his character and
disposition, but the order he had prescribed to himself in his studies. Though capable of long-continued
effort and profound meditation, he never exhausted his strength; he uniformly changed the subject
of his labour, or book, to some recreation, before feeling the sensation of fatigue. Temperate
in his habits, serene and unruffled in his mind, he enjoyed a much larger share of happiness
than falls to the lot of most men. He was fortunately married; had affectionate children, whose
kindness and attentions solaced his declining years; and his remarkable prudence and economy
not only preserved him from those pecuniary embarrassments so common to men of genius, but
enabled him frequently to indulge the benevolence of his disposition by splendid acts of generosity.
He frequently said that he had never experienced a chagrin in life which an hour's reading
did not dissipate. In his later years, when his eyesight was affected he depended chiefly on
listening to reading aloud, which was done alternately by his secretary and one of his daughters.
He had every thing which could make life happy; an ample fortune, affectionate family, fame
never contested, the consciousness of great powers nobly applied--"I have never through life,"
said he in his old age, "had a chagrin, still less an hour of ennui. I waken in the morning
with a secret pleasure at beholding the light. I gaze upon it with species of ravishment. All
the day I am content. In the evening when I retire to rest, I fall into a sort of reverie which
prevents the effort of thought, and I pass the night without once waking."

No man ever possessed a higher sense of the dignity of intellectual power, of its great and
glorious mission, of its superiority to all the world calls great, and of the consequent jealousy
and aversion with which it is sure to be regarded by the depositaries of political authority.
He was neglected by them; he knew it, and expected it; it never gave him a moment's chagrin.
"He was not insensible," says D'Alembert, "to glory; but he had no desire to win but by deserving
it. Never did he attempt to enhance his reputation by the underhand devices and secret machinations
by which second-rate men so often strive to sustain their literary fortunes. Worthy of every
eloge and of every recompense, he asked nothing, and was noways surprised at being forgot.
But he had courage enough in critical circumstances to solicit the protection at court of men
of letters persecuted and unfortunate, and he obtained their restoration to favour." What a
picture of the first man of his age, living in retirement, asking nothing, noways surprised
at being forgot! He knew human nature well who acted thus after writing the Esprit des Loix.
Power loves talent as long as it serves itself, when it is useful but manageable; it hates
it when it becomes its instructor. Self-love is gratified by the subservience of genius in
the first case; it is mortified by its superiority in the last.

But this honoured and happy life was drawing to a close. Shortly after the publication of the
Esprit des Loix, the strength of Montesquieu rapidly declined; it seemed as if nature had been
exhausted by that great production. "I had intended," said he in his journal, "to give more
extent and depth to some parts of the Esprit des Loix, but I have become incapable of it. Reading
has weakened my eyes; and it seems as if the little light that still remains to them, is but
the dawn of the day when they will close for ever." His anticipations were not long of being
carried into effect. In February 1755, he was seized with an inflammatory fever when on a visit
at Paris. The utmost care and attention was bestowed on him by a number of friends especially
the Duc de Nivernois and the Duchesse d'Aiguillon, two of his oldest friends; but he sunk under
the malady at the end of thirteen days. The sweetness of his temper and serenity of his disposition
never deserted him during this illness. From the first he was aware of its dangerous nature,
but not a groan, a complaint, or a murmur ever escaped his lips. The Jesuits made strenuous
endeavours to get possession of him during his last moments; but, though strongly impressed
with religions principle, he resisted all their efforts to extract from him a declaration in
favour of their peculiar tenets. "I have always respected religion," said he; "the morality
of the Gospel is the noblest gift ever bestowed by God on man." The Jesuits strenuously urged
him to put into their hands a corrected copy of the Lettres Persanes, in which he had expunged
the passages having an irreligious tendency, but he refused to give it to them; but he gave
the copy to the Duchesse d'Aiguillon, and Madame Dupré de St Maur, who were in the apartment,
with instructions for its publication, saying, "I will sacrifice every thing to religion, but
nothing to the Jesuits." Shortly after he received extreme unction from the hands of the curé
of the parish. "Sir," said the priest, "you now feel how great is God." "Yes," he replied,
"and how little man." These were his last words. He died on the 10th of February 1755.

Montesquieu left a great number of manuscripts and notes; but they were in so incomplete a
state, that a few detached fragments only have been deemed fit for publication. He had written
a journal of his travels, and in particular a set of "Notes on England," which would have been
of much value had they been worked up to a mature form; but death interrupted him when he was
only in the commencement of that great undertaking. He had begun a history of France under
Louis XI., which is still extant, though very little progress was made in the work. The introduction,
containing a sketch of the state of Europe at that period, is said to equal the most brilliant
picture left by his immortal hand. It is written in the terse, epigrammatic style which is
so characteristic of its author; and a few striking expressions preserved by those who have
had access to the manuscript, will convey an idea of what the work would have been. "He saw
only," said he, "in the commencement of his reign, the commencement of vengeance." Terminating
a parallel of Louis XI. and Richelieu, which he drew much to the advantage of the latter, he
observed, "He made the monarch play the second part in the monarchy, but the first in Europe--he
lowered the king, but he raised the Kingdom." These and similar expressions are in Montesquieu's
peculiar and nervous style, and they prove that the work would have contained, if completed,
many brilliant passages; but they do not warrant the conclusion that the history itself would
have been of much value. There is nothing more dangerous to an historian than great powers
of epigrammatic expression; it almost inevitably leads to the sacrifice of truth and candour
to point and antithesis. It is well for Tacitus that we have not the other side of his story
recounted by a writer of equal power, but less party spirit and force of expression. In truth,
it is probable the world has not lost much by Montesquieu's numerous unpublished manuscripts
having been left in an incomplete state. There is no end to the writing of romances, or the
annals of human events, but there is a very early limit to the production of original ideas,
even to the greatest intellects; to Plato, Bacon, Newton, Smith, or Montesquieu, they are given
only in a limited number. Hence their frequent repetition of the same thoughts, when their
writings become voluminous. Montesquieu has done enough; his mission to man has been amply
fulfilled.

In common with other men whose thoughts have made a great and wide-spread impression on mankind,
the originality and value of Montesquieu's conceptions cannot be rightly appreciated by subsequent
ages. That is the consequence of their very originality and importance. They have sunk so deep,
and spread so far among mankind, that they have become common and almost trite. Like the expressions
of Shakspeare, Gray, or Milton, they have become household words; on reading his works, we
are astonished to find how vast a proportion of our habitual thoughts and expressions have
sprung from that source. This, however, far from being a reproach to an author, is his highest
commendation; it demonstrates at once the impression his thoughts have made on mankind. If
we would discover the step a great man has made, we must recur to the authors in the same line
who have preceded him, and then the change appears great indeed. The highest praise which can
be bestowed on an author of original thought, is to say, that his ideas were unknown to the
authors who preceded, trite with those who followed him.

The great characteristic of Montesquieu's thoughts, is the tracing the operation of general
and lasting causes on human affairs. Before his time, the march of political or social events
was ascribed by divines to the immediate and direct agency of the Deity guiding human actions,
as a general moves an army; by men of the world, to chance, or the mastering influence of individual
energy and talent. Bossuet may be considered as the most eminent of the former class. Voltaire
brought the doctrines of the latter to their highest perfection. In opposition to both, Montesquieu
strenuously asserted the operation of general laws, emanating doubtless originally from the
institutions of the Deity, and the adaptation of the human mind to the circumstances in which
man is placed in society, but acting at subsequent periods through the instrumentality of free
agents, and of permanent and lasting operation in all ages of the world. Machiavel had frequently
got sight of this sublime theory in his political writings; and in his Discorsi on Roman History,
many of the most profound observations ever made by man on the working of the human mind under
free institutions, and of the corresponding effects of similar principles of action in the
republics of antiquity, and of those of Italy in modern times, are to be found. But it was
Montesquieu who first carried out the doctrine to its full extent, and traced its operation
through an infinity of historical events and political institutions. It is to the success with
which he has done this, and the combined philosophical depth and grasp of details which his
writings exhibit, that his colossal reputation has been owing. He had prodigious acquaintance
with individual facts, united to the power of classifying them under their proper heads, and
deducing from them their general and common principles. Like the steam-engine, he could, by
turns, turn a thread round a spindle, and elevate a seventy-four in the air. He was the Kepler
of science; like the immortal German, he had made eighty thousand observations in the social
world; but, like him, he could deduce the few laws of national advance or decline from the
regular irregularity of their motion.

The expression, Esprit des Loix, selected as the title of Montesquieu's great work, was not
happily chosen. What he meant was not the Spirit of Laws, but the causes from which laws have
arisen; the "Leges Legum," as Cicero said, to which they were owing, and from which they had
sprung. He ascribed very little influence to human institutions in moulding the character or
determining the felicity of man. On the contrary, he thought that these institutions were in
general an effect, not a cause. He conceived that they arose, in every country, from something
peculiar in the race from which the nature descended, or the climate, employments, or mode
of earning subsistence to which it was chained in subsequent times by the physical circumstance
in which it was placed. A certain type or character was imprinted on every people, either by
the ineradicable influence of blood, which descends to the remotest generations, or the not
less irremovable effect of external and physical circumstances which attaches to them through
all ages. It was this blood and those circumstances which formed the national character, and
through it, in the course of generations, moulded the national customs and institutions. Such
customs and institutions were those which, having been framed by necessity, or the dictates
of expedience, according to the circumstances in which each people were placed, were best adapted
to their temper and situation. True wisdom consisted not in altering but following out the
spirit of existing laws and customs; and, in his own words--"No nation ever yet rose to lasting
greatness but from institutions in conformity to its spirit." No calamities were so great or
irremediable as those which arose from disregarding the separate characters stamped on the
different races and nations of men by the hand of the Almighty, or seeking to force upon one
people or one race the institutions which have arisen among, and are adapted to, another.

Such are the fundamental principles which run through Montesquieu's writings, and to the elucidation
of which he devoted the fifteen best years of his life. It will readily be perceived that they
are entirely at variance with the whole doctrines of the French philosophers of the latter
part of the eighteenth century, and which were practically enforced and carried into effect
in their great Revolution. With them institutions were every thing; national character, descent,
employment, or physical circumstances, nothing. All mankind would be the same if they only
enjoyed the same liberty, laws, and institutions. The differences observable among them were
entirely the result of the different governments forced upon men, in various stages of their
progress, by the tyranny of kings, the force of conquest, or the machinations of priests. One
frame of institutions, one code of laws, one set of government maxims, were adapted for all
the world, and if practically acted upon would every where produce the same pure and upright
character in the people. Vice and wickedness were the hateful effect of aristocratic pride,
kingly lusts, or sacerdotal delusion; the human heart was naturally innocent, and bent only
upon virtue; when the debasing influence of these corrupters of men was removed, it would universally
resume its natural direction. Hence the maxim of Robespierre--"Le peuple est toujours bon,
le magistrat toujours corruptible." Hence the readiness with which the constitution-mongers
at Paris set themselves to prepare skeletons of government for all nations, and their universal
identity with that originally cast during the fervour of the Revolution for the Great Nation.
Hence also, it may be added, their experienced evils, short duration, and universal sweeping
away, within a few years, before the accumulated suffering and aroused indignation of mankind.

It was owing to this fundamental variance between the doctrines of Montesquieu and those of
the greater part of his contemporaries, and nearly the whole generation which succeeded him,
that the comparative obscurity of his fame after his death, and the neglect which his writings
for long experienced in France, are to be ascribed. When we contemplate the profound nature
of his thoughts, the happy terseness and epigrammatic force of his expressions, and the great
early fame which his writings acquired, nothing appears more extraordinary than the subsequent
neglect into which, for above half a century after his death, he fell.[2] Voltaire, Rousseau,
Helvetius, Condorcet, Turgot, and the Encyclopédists, were then at the acme of their reputation;
and their doctrines as to the natural innocence of man, and the universal moulding of human
character by political institutions, not of political institutions by human character, were
too much at variance with Montesquieu's deductions and conclusions to admit of their coexisting
together. The experience of the Revolution, both abroad and at home, however, erelong spread
a doubt among many thinking men, whether these doctrines were in reality as well founded as
they were universally represented to be by the philosophers of the preceding age. Napoleon,
who was thoroughly convinced of their erroneous nature, had a high admiration for Montesquieu,
and frequently quoted his sentiments. But still the opposite set of opinions, diffused over
the world with the tricolor flag, maintain their ground with the great majority even of well-informed
men, at least in all republican states and constitutional monarchies. The policy of England
in encouraging the revolutions of Belgium, Portugal, Spain, and the South American republics,
has, for the last thirty years, been mainly founded on the principle, that institutions similar
to those of Britain may with safety be transferred to other states, and that it is among them
alone that we are to look for durable alliances or cordial support. The wretched fate of all
the countries, strangers to the Anglo-Saxon blood, who have been cursed with these alien constitutions,
whether in the Spanish or Italian Peninsulas, or the South American states--the jealous spirit
and frequent undisguised hostility of America--the total failure of English institutions in
Ireland, have had no effect with the great majority of men in this country, in rooting out
these fatal errors. More than one generation, it is apparent, must descend to their graves
before they are fairly expelled from general thought by experience and suffering. So obstinately
do men cling to doctrines, which are flattering to human vanity, in opposition alike to the
dictates of wisdom and the lessons of experience; and so true in all ages is the doctrine of
the Roman Catholic church, that pride is the last sin which can be conquered in the human heart.

One remarkable instance will illustrate the manner in which Montesquieu supported the opposite
principles, that institutions are moulded by the character and circumstances of nations, not
the moulders of them. It is well known that primogeniture, though neither the law of succession
in the Roman empire, nor originally of the nations of Northern Europe, in whom the allodial
customs at first generally prevailed, came to be universally introduced with the feudal system,
and the thorough establishment of a military aristocracy in every country of Europe. But, strange
to say, there are some places where the rule is just the reverse, and the youngest son succeeds
to the whole movable estate of the father, as is still the custom of some boroughs in England.[3]
Montesquieu ascribes, and apparently with reason, these opposite rules of succession to a similar
feeling of expedience and necessity in the different circumstances in which the same race of
Northmen were placed in different periods of their progress. The succession of the youngest
son to the father's estate was the bequest of the patriarchal ages, when the youngest son generally
remained last at home with his aged parent, his elder brothers having previously hived off
with their herds and flocks. He therefore naturally succeeded to the movables of which he was
alone in possession, jointly with his father, at the latter's death.

On the other hand, the descent of the whole landed estate to the eldest son, to the exclusion
of his younger brothers and sisters, was naturally suggested by the settlement of a brave and
martial race of conquerors in extensive districts gained by their valour, and which could be
maintained only in the lands they had won by the sword. To divide the estate in such circumstances
of peril, was to expose it to certain destruction; unity of operation in all its forms, one
head, one castle, was as indispensable as one general to an army, or one sovereign to a kingdom.
The old maxim, "divide et impera," was universally felt to be of fearful application. Empires,
duchies, principalities, earldoms, baronies, private estates, could alone be preserved entire,
amidst the general hostility with which all were surrounded, by descending to a single occupant.
That occupant was naturally the eldest son, the first-born of the family, the first who arrived
at man's estate, and the most capable on that account to render the necessary protection to
its various members and dependants. Hence the general establishment of the law of primogeniture
in all the countries of Europe. And for a similar reason, when the necessity which at first
occasioned this general deviation from the feelings of equal affection to offspring was removed
by the establishment of regular government, and general security, and the spread of commerce,
with the necessity of capital to fit out sons and daughters, had been generally felt, this
custom was silently abrogated at least in the commercial and middle classes, and a division
of the succession, whether in land or money, into nearly equal parts, very generally took place.

It may readily be inferred from these observations, that the doctrines of Montesquieu, as to
the moulding of institutions by external circumstances, and the character of nations, not of
the character of nations by institutions and forms of government, is one of the very highest
importance, not merely to speculative philosophers, but practical statesmen. In truth, it is
the question of questions; the one thing needful to be understood both by the leaders of thought
and the rulers of men. Unless correct and rational views are entertained on this subject, internal
legislation will be perpetually at fault, external policy in a false direction. Reform will
degenerate into revolution, conquest into desolation. The greatest calamities, both social
and foreign, recorded in the history of the last half century, have arisen from a neglect of
the maxims of Montesquieu, as to the indelible influence of race and external circumstances
on human character, and the adoption in their stead of the doctrines of Voltaire and Rousseau,
on the paramount influence of political institutions and general education on human felicity.
Our policy, both social and foreign, is still mainly founded on the latter basis. If Montesquieu's
principles as to no nation ever arriving at durable greatness but by institutions in harmony
with its spirit and origin, had been generally adopted, the French Revolution, which originated
in the Anglo and American mania, and the desire to transplant English institutions into the
soil of France, would never have taken place. Had the same views prevailed in the British Cabinet,
the iniquitous support of the revolt of the South American colonies in 1821 and 1822, and the
insidious encouragement of the ruinous revolutions of Spain and Portugal during the Carlist
war, would not have stained the honour of England, and ruined the prospects of the Peninsula.
Had they pervaded the British community, the two fatal mistakes of policy in our time, the
sudden emancipation of the negro slaves in the West Indies, and the unloosing all the bonds
of government in Ireland, by the transplantation of Anglo-Saxon institutions, and the tempered
freedom of England, into the midst of the Celtic blood and semi-barbarous passions of Ireland,
would never have been committed. The great question at issue, in short, between Montesquieu
and the Encyclopédists, as to whether man is moulded by institutions, or institutions by man,
is the fundamental question, not only speculative, but practical, of the age; and without correct
ideas on which, internal legislation and external policy are equally certain to be precipitated
into error, and benevolence itself to become the parent of unbounded calamities.

And yet, if the matter be considered dispassionately, and without the disturbing influence
of human pride and democratic ambition, which have obscured the visions of three generations
of the ablest men in Europe, it seems extraordinary how any doubt could ever have been entertained
on the subject. What are laws and institutions but the work of men, the concentration of the
national will in times past, or at the present moment? If so, how could they have arisen but
from the will of the people? It is only removing the difficulty a step further back to say,
as has so often been done, that they were imposed, not by the will of the nation, but by the
power of the tyrants who had oppressed, or the priests who had deluded it. For who were these
tyrants or these priests? Not one in twenty thousand to the whole community. If they were empowered
and enabled to impose arbitrary or debasing institutions, it must have been because the immense
majority devolved to them the task; because, conscious of inability to govern themselves, or
wanting the inclination to do so, they willingly resigned themselves to the guidance and direction
of others. The Czar at St. Petersburg, the Sultaun at Constantinople, the Emperor at Pekin,
reign just as much by the national will, and in a manner just as conformable to the national
wish, as the Consuls of Rome, the Committee of Public Salvation at Paris, or the present constitutional
Monarchs of France or England. The proof of this is, that when the people are dissatisfied
with their administration, or displeased with the sovereign, they have no difficulty in dispatching
him. The twisting of a sash round the neck in Russia, the bowstring in Constantinople or Ispahan,
are very effectual monitors--fully as much so as a hostile Parliamentary majority in the house
of Commons or Chamber of Deputies. In a word, government in every country being conducted by
the few over the many by the hundreds over the hundred thousands, it is altogether impossible
that the administration or institutions can be, for any length of time, at variance with the
general will; because, if it was, it would not be submitted to. It may be, indeed, despotic
and tyrannical in the highest degree, but that is no indication that it is contrary to the
general will; it is only an indication that the general will is to be slaves--no unusual occurrence
among men.

This fundamental principle of Montesquieu as to the perpetual and ineradicable influence of
race, climate, and physical circumstances, in forming national character, and moulding national
institutions, is unquestionably the true doctrine on the subject, though probably several generations
must pass away, and an incalculable amount of suffering be endured by mankind, before it is
generally admitted. Coupled with the cardinal point of the Christian faith, the inherent and
universal corruption of the human heart, it forms the only foundation of a salutary or durable
government. Decisive proof of this may be found in the fact, that the revolutionary party,
all the world over, maintain directly the reverse; viz. that free political institutions, and
general education, are all in all; and that, if established, the native virtue of the human
heart affords a sufficient guarantee for general happiness. Montesquieu's principles lead to
the conclusion that all reform and amelioration of existing institutions, to be either durable
or beneficial, must be moulded on the old precedents, and deviate as little as may be, and
that only from obvious necessity or expedience, from them. They utterly repudiate all transplantation
of constitutions, or forcing upon one people the institutions or privileges of another. They
point to experience as the great and only sure guide in social or political change, and for
the obvious reason, that it alone can tell what has been found to be suitable to the circumstances,
and adapted to the character and wants, of the nation among whom it has taken place. It is
not that our ancestors were in the least wiser than we are; doubtless they did many foolish
things, as we do. It is that time has consigned their foolish things, whether laws or measures,
to the grave; and nothing has descended to our time but those institutions which have been
found to be beneficial in their tendency. The portions of our present legislation which are
suitable to the country, will in like manner descend to posterity, and the folly and absurdity
will in a few generations be heard of no more.

It has been already remarked, that the Grandeur et Décadence des Romains is a more complete,
and in some respects profound work, than the Esprit des Loix. A few quotations will justify,
it is thought, this high eulogium--

     "The circumstance of all others which contributed most to the
     ultimate greatness of Rome, was the long-continued wars in
     which its people were early involved. The Italian people had no
     machines for conducting sieges; and in addition to this, as the
     soldiers every where served without pay, it was impossible to
     retain them long before a fortified town; thus few of their wars
     were decisive. They fought for the pillage of a camp, or the
     booty of the fields, after which victors and vanquished retired
     alike into their respective cities. It was this circumstance
     which occasioned the long resistance of the Italian cities, and,
     at the same time, the obstinacy of the Romans in their endeavours
     to subjugate them; it was that which gave them victories which
     did not enervate, and conquests which left them their poverty.
     Had they rapidly conquered the neighbouring cities, they would
     have arrived at their decline before the days of Pyrrhus, of the
     Gauls, and of Hannibal; and, following the destiny of all the
     nations in the world, they would too quickly have gone through
     the transition from poverty to riches, and from riches to
     corruption."--C. 1.

What a subject for reflection is presented in this single paragraph! Rome, without any knowledge
of siege equipage, thrown in the midst of the Italian states bristling with strongholds; and
slowly learning, during centuries of indecisive, and often calamitous contests, that military
art by which she was afterwards to subdue the world! It was in like manner, in the long, bloody,
and nearly balanced contests of the Grecian republics with each other, that the discipline
was learned which gave Alexander and the Macedonian phalanx the empire of Asia; and in the
protracted struggles of the Anglo-Saxons, first with each other in the Heptarchy, and then
with the Danes and Normans in defence of their coasts, that the foundation was laid of the
energy and perseverance which have given the British race their present eminence and dominion
among men.

     "It has been often observed," says Montesquieu, "that our armies
     generally melt away under the fatigue of the soldiers, while
     those of the Romans never failed to preserve their health by it.
     The reason is, that their fatigues were continued; whereas our
     soldiers are destroyed by passing from a life of almost total
     inactivity to one of vehement exertion--the thing of all others
     most destructive to health. Not only were the Roman soldiers
     accustomed, during war, to incessant marching, and fortifying of
     the camps, but in peace they were daily trained to the same
     active habits. They were all habituated to the military step,
     that is, to go twenty miles, and sometimes twenty-four, in five
     hours. They did this bearing burdens of sixty pounds. They were
     daily trained to run and leap with their whole equipment on; in
     their ordinary drills the swords, javelins, and arrows were of a
     weight double of that used in war, and the exercises were
     continued."--C. 2.

There can be no doubt that this passage both explains much of the astonishing conquests of
the Roman legions, and furnishes ample subject for reflection to a modern observer. The constant
employment of these troops in the construction of great public works, as highways, bridges,
harbours, or the like, was at once the best security for the health of the soldiers and the
circumstance, of all others, which rendered their maintenance tolerable to the people. If we
examine the inscriptions found in all parts of the world, where Roman remains are to be met
with, we shall find that they were raised by the hands of the legions. It was their persevering
and incessant toil which formed the magnificent highways, which, emanating from the Roman Forum,
extended to the furthest extremity of the empire. The prodigious labour required for these
great undertakings; the vast bridges and viaducts which required to be constructed; the mountains
to be levelled; morasses and valleys to be filled up, habituated the legionary soldiers to
such an amount of daily labour, that their engaging in the fatigues of a campaign was felt
rather as a recreation than a burden. Hence, the dreadful sickness which in modern armies invariably
attends the commencement of a campaign, and in general halves its numerical strength before
a sword has been drawn, was for the most part unknown, and hence, too, the extraordinary achievements
performed by small bodies of these iron veterans. How great the difference in modern times,
where the naval and military forces are every where kept up during peace in almost total idleness;
and the consequence is, that they are at once an eyesore to the citizens whose substance they
consume in what is deemed useless ostentation, and are deprived of half their numerical strength,
and more than half their efficiency, on first engaging in the fatigues of real warfare.

No province hails the arrival of a modern division of troops, no seaport longs for the presence
of a man-of-war, as the signal for the commencement of great and beneficent pacific undertakings,
as was the case in the Roman empire. Of what incalculable use might the British navy be, if
even a part of it was employed in transporting the hundred thousand colonists who annually
seek in our distant possessions, or in the American States, that profitable market for their
industry, which they cannot find amidst our crowded manufactories at home? And this is an instance
of the manner in which the reflections of Montesquieu, though made in reference only to the
Roman empire, are in truth applicable to all ages and countries; as the parables in the Gospels,
though delivered only to the fishermen of Judea, contain the rules of conduct for the human
race to the end of the world.

Regarding the comparative causes of corruption in a military and commercial state, Montesquieu
makes the following observation. Let him that feels it not applicable to this nation and ourselves,
throw the first stone:--

     "Carthage having become richer than Rome, was also more
     corrupted. For this reason, while at Rome public employments
     were chiefly awarded to ability and virtue, and conferred no
     advantage, but a greater share of fatigues to be endured, and
     dangers incurred, every thing which the public had to bestow was
     sold at Carthage, and every service rendered by individuals was
     paid by the state. The tyranny of a prince does not bring a
     despotic state nearer its ruin than indifference to the public
     good does a republic. The advantage of a free state consists in
     this, that its revenues are in general better administered; and
     even where this is not the case, it has at first the advantage of
     not being governed by court favourites. But, on the other hand,
     the corrupting power in a democracy, when once brought into
     action, erelong becomes more dissolving than in a despotism; for
     instead of paying court merely to the friends and relations of
     the prince, it becomes necessary to provide for the friends and
     relations of the multitude who have a share in political power.
     All is then lost. The laws are eluded in a more dangerous manner
     than by the violence of a despot; for they are so by the
     interests of the changing many, not the passions of one, whose
     position at the head of the state being fixed and unchangeable,
     gives him a lasting interest in its preservation."--C. 4.

How many reflections does this passage, written in France above a century ago, awaken in the
breast of a British citizen at this time!--"Si monumentum quæris, circumspice!" So true it
is, that real political truth belongs to no age or locality--"non alia Romæ, alia Athenis;"
it is of eternal application, and is destined to receive confirmation from the experience of
men, and the lessons of history, to the end of the world.

     "Powers," says Montesquieu, "which owe their greatness to
     commerce, may exist long in mediocrity, but their grandeur can
     never be of long duration. The reason is, that they rise to
     greatness by little and little, without any one being aware of
     their growth, as they have done nothing which attracts attention,
     awakens alarm, or indicates their power. But when it has risen to
     that point, that no one can avoid seeing it, all the surrounding
     nations secretly endeavour to deprive the great commercial state
     of advantages which they all envy, and which have taken them, as
     it were, by surprise."--C. 4.

Few persons who contemplate the present state of the British empire, its astonishing rise to
greatness in the space of less than a century--the general, it may be said universal jealousy
with which it is regarded, and the perilous pinnacle on which it now stands, will deny the
justice of this observation. May the remark, as to the short duration of power founded on such
a basis, not receive an additional, and even more memorable confirmation in ourselves! But
one thing is perfectly clear. This remark indicates the impossibility of conciliating the adjoining
and poorer states while our commercial superiority continues, and thus strikes at the very
foundation of the reciprocity system, on which our whole commercial policy for the last quarter
of a century has been founded. That system proceeds on the principle, that by opening to the
adjoining states a fair communication of advantages, it is in the power of a great commercial
state, not only to conciliate their good-will, but obtain with them a great and mutually beneficial
mercantile intercourse. Montesquieu's observation points to the undying and universal jealousy
by its neighbours with which such a power is ever surrounded, and the futility of all attempts,
while its superiority exists, to avert their mercantile hostility, or preserve with them any
considerable commercial traffic. Which is the better option, let the hedge of hostile tariffs
with which, after boundless concessions to purchase commercial good-will, we are surrounded
in every direction, give the answer.

On the comparative value of infantry and cavalry in war, Montesquieu, though no professional
soldier, makes the following observation, on which those who are so, would do well to ponder:--

     "The Carthaginian cavalry was superior to that of the Romans, for
     two reasons. One was, that the Numidian and Spanish horses were
     better than those of Italy; the other, that the Roman cavalry was
     ill armed; for Polybius tells us, that it was not till they had
     carried on war in Greece, that they changed their manner of
     equipping that limb of military strength. In the first Punic
     war, Regulus was beat as soon as the Carthaginians made choice of
     plains for combat, where their cavalry could act to advantage; in
     the second, Hannibal owed to the Numidian horse his principal
     victories. It was not till whole corps of them began to go over
     to the Romans in Italy, that the latter began to breathe. Scipio
     having conquered Spain, and contracted an alliance with
     Masinissa, deprived the Carthaginians of that advantage. He did
     more, he gained it for himself. It was the Numidian cavalry which
     gained the battle of Zama, and terminated the war in favour of
     the Romans."--C. 4.

It is impossible to read the admirable account of Hannibal's campaign in the last volume of
Arnold's History of Rome, without perceiving that this observation, as to the decisive effect
of the Numidian cavalry upon the fortunes of the war, in first giving victory to the Carthaginians
when they were entirely on their side, and gradually, and at length decisively restoring it
to that of the Romans, when they were won over to their eagles, is entirely well-founded. Napoleon
was of the same opinion, and has repeatedly expressed it in various parts of his works. "Give
me," said that great man, "the French infantry and the Mameluke horse, and I will conquer the
world." It was his constant affirmation that cavalry, equally brave and skillfully led, should
always, other things being equal, overthrow infantry; and that the contrary opinion which generally
prevails, was owing to horse, considered as the sole strength of war during the feudal ages,
having been unduly decried since the invention of fire-arms. All the world knows the immense
use he made of his heavy cavalry in all his campaigns; how often, in circumstances the most
critical, it chained victory to his standards; how nearly it re-established his affairs, and
replaced the imperial crown upon his head on the field of Waterloo. How striking a proof of
human sagacity that the philosophic sage, in the early part of the seventeenth century, should
have divined a truth which the researches of the historian and the exploits of the conqueror
were to confirm in the middle of the eighteenth!

     "Those who are governed by a king," says Montesquieu, "are less
     tormented by envy and jealousy, than those who live under an
     hereditary aristocracy. The prince is so far distant from his
     subjects, that he is rarely seen by them; he is so far above them
     that nothing in his situation can mortify his self-love. But the
     nobles who govern in an aristocracy are under the eyes of all,
     and they are not so elevated, but that odious comparisons are
     made without ceasing. Thus in all ages we have seen the people
     detest their senators, though they frequently love their king.
     Republics, where birth confers no title to power, are in that
     respect in a better situation than aristocracies; for the people
     feel less jealousy of an authority which they give to whom they
     please, and take from whom they incline."--C. 8.

How many confirmations of this remark have the history of France during the Revolution, and
of England during the Reform mania afforded! And this affords an illustration of a truth, which,
the more history is studied, will be rendered more apparent, viz., that the principles which
lie at the bottom of the greatest changes in the political world, and produce the most devastating
evils to society, are in reality the same which we see acting every day around us in common
life. In the jealousies of the tea-table, the animosities of the market-place, the envy of
trade, we may see the passions working, which, infused into a whole people, tear society in
pieces. It is only supposing the same malevolent or selfish desires working in every breast,
directed against one object, and rendered irresistible from that very multiplication, and we
have the envy of the coterie transformed into the fury of revolution. Whoever will closely
observe the working of that mainspring of human actions--selfishness--on the society, whether
in a village, a city, a country, or a metropolis in which he resides, will have no difficulty
in discerning the real but secret, and therefore unobserved spring of the greatest changes
that ever occur in the political and social world. Voltaire said the factions at Geneva were
storms in a teacup; if any man will study the motion of water in a teacup, he will be at no
loss to understand the hurricanes of the Atlantic.

On the division of the Roman people into centuries and tribes, which was the cardinal point
of their constitution, Montesquieu makes the following important observation:--

     "Servius Tullius was the author of the famous division of the
     people into centuries, which Livy and Dionysius Halicarnassus
     have so well described. He distributed an hundred and
     ninety-three centuries into six classes, and put the whole lower
     people into the last century, which singly formed the sixth
     class. It is easy to see that that arrangement virtually excluded
     the lower classes from the suffrage, not de jure, but de
     facto. Subsequently it was agreed, that except in some
     particular cases they should, in voting, follow the division into
     tribes. There were thirty-five of these tribes who gave each
     their vote: four were from the city, thirty-one from the
     country. The principal citizens, being all rural proprietors,
     were naturally classed in the country tribes: the lower people
     were all massed together in the four urban ones. This
     circumstance was regarded, and with reason, as the salvation of
     the republic. Appius Claudius had distributed the lower people
     among the whole tribes, but Fabius classed then again in the four
     urban ones, and thence acquired the surname of 'Maximus.' The
     Censors very five years took a survey of the citizens, and
     distributed the people in the tribes to which they legally
     belonged; so that the ambitious could not render themselves
     masters of their suffrages, nor the people abuse their own
     power."--C. 8.

The Romans had good reason for styling Fabius "Maximus," who discovered this way of preventing
the lower classes, by their number, from acquiring an overwhelming superiority in the government
of the state. He achieved as great a good for his country by so doing, as by baffling Hannibal
after the battle of Cannæ. But for that circumstance the Roman constitution would have become,
after the change of Appius Claudius, a mere prototype of the American democracy; a government
constantly swayed by a numerical majority of the lowest class of citizens. There can be no
doubt that the matter at issue, in this question, is the most material which can engage the
attention of political philosophers and statesmen in a free country, and that, on its determination,
its ultimate fate is entirely dependant. So great is the number of the working-classes in every
old and opulent community, compared to those who possess the advantages of property and superior
education, that nothing is more certain than that, if the elective franchise be widely diffused,
and no mode of classifying the votes, as at Rome, has been discovered, the sway of a numerical
majority of incompetent electors will, erelong, become irresistible. Certain ruin then awaits
the state. It was that which ruined Athens in ancient, which has destroyed Poland in modern
times, and is fast undermining the foundations of the social union in America. The Roman method
of giving every citizen a vote, but classifying them in such a way that the paramount influence
of a mere numerical majority was prevented, and the practical direction of affairs was thrown
into the hands of the better class of citizens, though not free from objection, is the most
perfect method of combining universal suffrage in the citizens, with the real direction of
affairs by those fitted to conduct them, which the wit of man has ever divined.

In truth, it deserves consideration by those who think on human affairs, and the probable form
of government which may be expected to prevail in future among men, whether universal suffrage
is the real evil to be dreaded; and whether equality of suffrage is not the real poison which
destroys society. Abstractly considered, there is much justice in the plea so constantly advanced
by the working-classes, that being members of the community, and contributing to its support
or opulence by their labour, they are entitled to a certain voice in the direction of its affairs.
If no one has a voice at all but the sovereign, as in a despotism, or no one except a few magnates,
as in an aristocracy, the humbler classes cannot complain at least of inconsistency, whatever
they may of injustice, if they are excluded. But if a vast body of electors, as in Great Britain,
are admitted, and still the great bulk of the working-classes are excluded, it is not easy
to see on what principle the exclusion of some can be rendered consistent with the admission
of others. It deserves consideration whether the true principle would not be to give every
able-bodied working man, major and not receiving parochial relief, a vote, but a vote of much
less weight than his superiors in intelligence, property, or station. This might be done either
as the Romans did, by making the votes be taken by centuries, and classing all the votes of
the poorer electors in a limited number of centuries, or giving each man a personal vote, and
giving the holders of property, in addition, more votes for their property; as one for every
pound of direct taxes paid. Louis XVI. proposed a plan of this sort to Turgot before the Revolution;
but that minister, deeply embued with the principles of democracy, rejected it; and Neckar,
following out his views, practically established universal suffrage. Possibly the plan, if
adopted and honestly carried into execution, might have prevented the whole calamities of the
Revolution.

Of the dangers of such a multiplication of votes, without any restriction, Roman history affords
a memorable example.

     "Rome," says Montesquieu, "had conquered the world with the aid
     of the Italian cities, and, in return, she had communicated to
     them a great variety of privileges. At first they cared little
     for these advantages; but when the rights of Roman citizenship
     was that of universal empire, when no one was any thing in the
     world if he was not a Roman citizen, and with that little he was
     every thing, the Italian people resolved to perish or acquire
     that envied distinction. Being unable to attain this object by
     prayers and remonstrances, they had recourse to arms: the whole
     allies on the Eastern coast of the Peninsula revolted, those on
     the Western side were about to follow their example. Rome,
     obliged to combat as it were the hands by which it had conquered
     the world, was lost; it was about to be reduced to its walls,
     when it extricated itself from the difficulty by extending the
     privilege to the allies who had remained faithful, and shortly
     after to the whole.

     "From that moment Rome ceased to be a city of which the people
     had the same spirit, the same interest, the same love of freedom,
     the same reverence for the Senate. The people of Italy having
     become citizens, every town brought thither its dispositions, its
     separate interests, its dependence on some neighbouring
     protector. The city, torn with divisions, formed no longer a
     whole; and as the vast majority of the citizens were so only by a
     species of fiction, had neither the same magistrates, the same
     walls, the same temples, the same gods, nor the same places of
     sepulture, Rome was no longer seen with the same eyes; the
     undivided love of country was gone; Rome was no more. The
     inhabitants of whole provinces and cities were brought up to the
     capital to give their suffrages, or compel others to give them;
     the popular assemblies degenerated into vast conspiracies, a
     troop or seditious band usurped the sacred name of Comitia; the
     authority of the people, their laws, even themselves, became a
     mere chimera; and the anarchy rose to such a point that it became
     impossible to tell whether the people had made an ordinance, or
     had not. Writers are never tired of descanting on the divisions
     which ruined Rome; but they have not seen that those divisions
     always existed, and ever must exist in a free community. It was
     solely the greatness of the republic which was the cause of the
     evil, by changing popular tumults into civil wars. Faction was
     unavoidable in Rome; its warriors, so fierce, so proud, so
     terrible abroad, would not be moderate at home. To expect in a
     free state men at once bold in war, and timid in peace, is to
     look for an impossibility. It may be assumed as a fixed
     principle, that wherever you see every one tranquil in a state
     which bears the name of a republic, liberty there has been long
     since extinct."--C. 9.

The representative system has saved Great Britain and America from these terrible popular comitia,
in which, as Montesquieu has truly said, the mobs of the people became the convulsions of an
empire; and which tore in pieces Poland in modern, as it had done Rome in ancient times. But
does not the real evil exist, despite this liberation from the actual tumult, in the representative
government of a great empire, as much as in the stormy comitia of an overgrown republic? It
is not the mere strife in the streets, and shedding of blood in civil warfare, bad as it is,
and truly as the "bellum plusquam civile" exceeds all others in horror, which is the only evil.
The separation of interests, the disregard of common objects in the struggle for individual
elevation, the tyranny of one class by another class, is the thing which really dissolves the
national bonds in every wide-spread and free community. We see this source of discord operating
with as much force in the divided representation of great popular states, as in the bloody
contests of the Roman forum or the plain of Volo in Poland. The nullification of South Carolina,
the obnoxious tariff of America, the fierce demands for the repeal of the union in Ireland,
the sacrifice of agricultural and producing, to commercial and monied interests in Great Britain,
prove that these evils are in full operation among ourselves, as well as our descendants on
the other side of the Atlantic. There is a confusion of tongues, and separation of mankind
from the undue amalgamation of interests, as well as individuals. Providence has a sure way
to punish the selfishness and presumption of men who seek to build up a Babel of human construction;
and that is to leave them to the consequences of their own extravagance.

The style of Montesquieu may be judged from the extracts, few and imperfect as they are, given
in the preceding pages. It is not vehement, eloquent, or forcible; but condensed, nervous,
and epigrammatic. No writer has furnished to succeeding times so many brilliant passages to
quote; but there are many who can be read en suite with more satisfaction. This is not unfrequently
the case with writers on philosophical subjects of the highest class of intellect; and it arises
from the variety and originality of their ideas. The mind of the reader is fatigued by following
out the multitude of thoughts which their works engender. At the close of every paragraph almost,
you involuntarily close the book, to reflect on the subjects of meditation which it has presented.
The same peculiarity may be remarked in the annals of Tacitus, the essays of Bacon, the poetry
of Milton, the Inferno of Dante, the Discorsi of Machiavel. In the habit of expansion which
has arisen in more recent times from the multiplication of books, the profits made by writing,
and the necessity of satisfying the craving of a voracious public for something new, is to
be found the cause of the remarkable difference in the modes of composition which has since
become prevalent. When men write for the monthly or quarterly press, there is no time to be
condensed or profound. What has been gained, however, in animation and fervour, has too often
been lost in thought; and it may be doubted whether, among the many writers of the present
day, whether in Great Britain or the Continent, there is one whose works, a century hence,
will be deemed to contain as much of original and valuable ideas as even the preceding sketch,
imperfect as it is, has presented in Montesquieu.

A REMINISCENCE OF BOYHOOD.

By Delta.

                       Bishop King.

                        I.

    'Twas a blithe morning in the aureate month
    Of July, when, in pride of summer power,
    The sun enliven'd nature: dew-besprent,
    A wilderness of flowers their scent exhaled
    Into the soft, warm zephyr; early a-foot,
    On public roads, and by each hedge-way path,
    From the far North, and from Hybernia's strand,
    With vestures many-hued, and ceaseless chat,
    The reapers to the coming harvest plied--
    Father and mother, stripling and young child,
    On back or shoulder borne. I trode again
    A scene of youth, bright in its natural lines
    Even to a stranger's eyes when first time seen,
    But sanctified to mine by many a fond
    And faithful recognition. O'er the Esk,
    Swoln by nocturnal showers, the hawthorn hung
    Its garland of green berries, and the bramble
    Trail'd 'mid the camomile its ripening fruit.
    Most lovely was the verdure of the hills--
    A rich luxuriant green, o'er which the sky
    Of blue, translucent, clear without a cloud,
    Outspread its arching amplitude serene.
    With many a gush of music, from each brake
    Sang forth the choral linnets; and the lark,
    Ascending from the clover field, by fits
    Soar'd as it sang, and dwindled from the sight.
    'Mid the tall meadow grass the ox reclined,
    Or bent his knee, or from beneath the shade
    Of the broad beech, with ruminant mouth, gazed forth.
    Rustling with wealth, a tissue of fair fields,
    Outstretch'd to left and right in luxury;
    And the fir forests on the upland slopes
    Contrasted darkly with the golden grain.

                    II.

      Pensively by the river's bank I stray'd--
    Now gazing on the corn-fields ripe and rich;
    Now listening to the carol of the birds
    From bush and brake, that with mellifluous notes
    Fill'd the wide air; and now in mournful thought--
    That yet was full of pleasure--running through
    The mazy past. I know not how it was,
    But from the sounds--the season--and the scene--
    Soften'd my heart; and, as the swallow wings
    In autumn back to softer sunnier climes--
    When summer, like a bright fallacious dream,
    Hath with its flowers and fragrance pass'd away--
    So, from the turmoil of maturer years,
    In boyish thoughts my spirit sought relief.

                    III.

      Embathed in beauty pass'd before my sight,
    Like blossoms that with sunlight shut and ope,
    The half-lost dreams of many a holiday,
    In boyhood spent on that blue river side
    With those whose names, even now, as alien sounds
    Ring in the ear, though then our cordial arms
    Enwreathed each other's necks, while on we roam'd,
    Singing or silent, pranksome, never at rest,
    As life were but a jocund pilgrimage,
    Whose pleasant wanderings found a goal in heaven.
    But when I reach'd a winding of the stream,
    By hazels overarch'd, whose swollen nuts
    Hung in rich clusters, from his marginal bank
    Of yellow sand, ribb'd by receding waves,
    I scared the ousel, that, like elfin sprite,
    Amid the water-lilies lithe and green,
    Zig-zagg'd from stone to stone; and, turning round
    The sudden jut, reveal'd before me stood,
    Silent, within that solitary place--
    In that green solitude so calm and deep--
    An aged angler, plying wistfully,
    Amid o'erhanging banks and shelvy rocks,
    Far from the bustle and the din of men,
    His sinless pastime. Silver were his locks,
    His figure lank; his dark eye, like a hawk's,
    Glisten'd beneath his hat of whitest straw,
    Lightsome of wear, with flies and gut begirt:
    The osier creel, athwart his shoulders slung,
    Became full well his coat of velveteen,
    Square-tail'd, four-pocket'd, and worn for years,
    As told by weather stains. His quarter-boots,
    Lash'd with stout leather thongs, and ankles bare,
    Spoke the adept--and of full many a day,
    Through many a changeable and checquer'd year,
    By mountain torrent, or smooth meadow stream,
    To that calm sport devoted. O'er him spread
    A tall, broad sycamore; and, at his feet,
    Amid the yellow ragwort, rough and high,
    An undisturbing spaniel lay, whose lids,
    Half-opening, told his master my approach.

                    IV.

      I turn'd away, I could not bear to gaze
    On that grey angler with his rod and line;
    I turn'd away--for to my heart the sight
    Brought back, from out the twilight labyrinth
    Of bypast things, the memory of a day,
    So sever'd from the present by the lapse
    Of many a motley'd, life-destroying year,
    That on my thoughts the recognition came
    Faintly at first--as breaks the timid dawn
    Above the sea, or evening's earliest star
    Through the pavilion of the twilight dim--
    Faintly at first--then kindling to the glow
    Of that refulgent sunshine, only known
    To boyhood's careless and unclouded hours.

                    V.

      Even yet I feel around my heart the flush
    Of that calm, windless morning, glorified
    With summer sunshine brilliant and intense!
    A tiny boy, scarcely ten summers old,
    Along blue Esk, under the whispering trees,
    And by the crumbling banks, daisy-o'ergrown,
    A cloudless, livelong day I trode with one
    Whose soul was in his pastime, and whose skill
    Upon its shores that day no equal saw:--
    O'er my small shoulders was the wicker creel
    Slung proudly, and the net whose meshes held
    The minnow, from the shallows deftly raised.
    Hour after hour augmenting our success,
    Turn'd what was pleasure first, to pleasant toil,
    Lent languor to my loitering steps, and gave
    Red to the cheek, and dew-damp to the brow:
    It was a day that cannot be forgot--
    A jubilee in childhood's calendar--
    A green hill-top seen o'er the billowy waste
    Of dim oblivion's flood:--and so it is,
    That on my morning couch--what time the sun
    Tinges the honeysuckle flowers with gold,
    That cluster round the porch--and in the calm
    Of evening meditation, when the past
    Spontaneously unfolds the treasuries
    Of half-forgotten and fragmental things,
    To memory's ceaseless roamings--it comes back,
    Fragrant and fresh, as if 'twere yesterday.
    From morn till noon, his light assiduous toil
    The angler plied; and when the mid-day sun
    Was high in heaven, under a spreading tree,
    (Methinks I hear the hum amid its leaves!)
    Upon a couch of wild-flowers, down we sat
    With healthful palates to our slight repast
    Of biscuits, and of cheese, and bottled milk;
    The sward our table, and the boughs our roof:
    And oh! in banquet hall, where richest cates
    Luxurious woo the pamper'd appetite,
    Never did viands proffer such delight,
    To Sybarite upon his silken couch,
    As did to us our simple fair that day.

                        VI.

      Bright shone the afternoon, say rather burn'd,
    In floods of molten gold, with all its rich
    Array of blossoms by that river's side--
    Wild camomile, and lychnis in whose cups
    The bee delights to murmur, harebells blue,
    And violets breathing fragrance; nor remote
    The aureate furze, that to the west-winds sigh,
    Lent its peculiar perfume blandly soft.
    At times we near'd the wild-duck and her brood
    In the far angle of some dim-seen pool,
    Silent and sable, underneath the boughs
    Of low hung willow; and, at times, the bleat
    Of a stray lamb would bid us raise our eyes
    To where it stood above us on the rock,
    Knee-deep amid the broom--a sportive elf.
    Enshrined in recollection--sleep those hours
    So brilliant and so beautiful--the scene
    So full of pastoral loveliness--the heart
    With pleasure overflowing--and the sky
    Pavilion'd over all, an arch of peace--
    God with his fair creation reconciled:
    And oh! to be forgotten only with
    The last fond thoughts of memory, I behold
    That grand and gorgeous evening, in whose blaze
    Homeward with laden paniers we return'd.
    Through the green woods outshot the level rays
    Of flooding sunlight, tinging the hoar bark
    Of the old pine-trees, and in crimson dyes
    Bathing the waste of flowers that sprang beneath;
    It was an hour of Paradise restored--
    Eden forth mirror'd to the view again,
    As yet ere Happiness forsook its bowers,
    Or sinless creatures own'd the sway of death.
    All was repose--and peace--and harmony;
    The flocks upon the soft knolls resting lay,
    Or straying nibbled at the pastures green;
    Up from its clovery lurking-place, the hare
    Arose; the pheasant from the coppice stray'd;
    The cony from its hole disporting leapt;
    The cattle in the bloomy meadows lay
    Ruminant; the shy foal scarcely swerved aside
    At our approach from under the tall tree
    Of his delight, shaking his forelocks long
    In wanton play; while, overhead, his hymn,
    As 'twere to herald the approach of night,
    With all her gathering stars, the blackbird sang
    Melodiously, mellifluously, and Earth
    Look'd up, reflecting back the smiles of Heaven!
    For Innocence, o'er hill and dale again
    Seem'd to have spread her mantle, and the voice
    Of all but joy in grove and glade was hush'd.

                    VII.

      Thro' the deep glen of Roslin--where arise
    Proud castle and chapelle of high St Clair,
    And Scotland's prowess speaking--we had traced
    The mazy Esk by cavern'd Hawthornden,
    Perch'd like an eagle's nest upon the cliffs,
    And eloquent for aye with Drummond's song--
    Through Melville's flowery glades--and down the park
    Of fair Dalkeith, scaring the antler'd deer
    'Neath the huge oaks of Morton and of Monk,
    Whispering, as stir their boughs the midnight winds.
    These left behind, with purpling evening, now
    We stood beside St Michael's holy fane,
    With its nine centuries of gravestones girt;
    And, from the slopes of Inveresk, gazed down
    Upon the Frith of Forth, whose waveless tide
    Glow'd like a plain of fire. In majesty,
    O'ercanopied with many-vestured clouds,
    The mighty sun, low in the farthest west,
    With orb dilated, o'er the Grampian chain,
    Mountain up-piled on mountain, huge and blue,
    Was shedding his last rays, adorn'd the shores
    Of Fife, with all its towns, and woods, and fields,
    And bathing Ben-Ean and Ben-Ledi's peaks
    In hues of amethyst. Ray after ray,
    From the twin Lomond's conic heights declined,
    And died away the glory; and, at length,
    As sank the last, low horizontal beams,
    And Twilight drew her azure curtains round,
    From out the south, twinkled the Evening star!

                    VIII.

      Since then full often hath the snow-drop shown
    Its early flower--hath summer waved its corn--
    Hath autumn shed its leaves--and Arctic gales
    Brought wintry desolation on their wings!
    When Memory ponders on that boyish scene,
    Broken seems almost every tie that links
    That day to this--and to the child the man:
    The world is alter'd quite in all its thoughts--
    In all its works and ways--its sights and sounds--
    With the same name it is another sphere,
    And by another race inhabited.
    The old familiar dwellings, with their trees
    Coeval, mouldering wall, and dovecot rent--
    The old familiar faces from the streets,
    One after one, have now all disappear'd,
    And sober sires are they who then were sons,
    Giddy and gay:--a generation new
    Dwells where they dwelt--whose tongues are silent quite--
    Whose bodily forms are reminiscences
    Fading:--the leaden talisman of Truth
    Hath disenchanted of its rainbow hues
    The sky, and robb'd the fields of half their bloom.
    I start, to conjure from the gulf of death
    The myriads that have gone to come no more:--
    And where is he, the Angler, by whose side
    That livelong day delightedly I roam'd,
    While life to both a sunny pastime seem'd?
    Ask of the winds that from the Atlantic blow,
    When last they stirr'd the wild-flowers on his grave!

DE BURTIN ON PICTURES.

The writings of enthusiasts, however dry the subjects upon which they employ their pens, have
always some power of fascination. Many a one who has never hooked a fish, has found delight
in Isaac Walton. He is still the pleasant companion by river and brooklet, and the cause why,

    "He that has fishing loved should fish the more,
    And he should fish who never fish'd before."

But then the subject is the loveliest of arts, Painting--embracing as it does the beautiful,
the great, and the pathetic, whatever charms the eye and moves the heart--we are sensible of
more than common pleasure, and become soothed into dreams and visions of our own, even by the
gentle garrulity of a connoisseur. Is there any one who pretends to acquaintance with literature,
however uninitiated he may be in the mysteries of the arts, who has not read the Discourses
of Sir Joshua Reynolds, and who has not wished, after reading them, to be enabled to say, "anche
io son pittore?" When we are told of picture galleries with their thousand works of art, and
are warmed by the descriptions, feeble though they must be, of many of them, we seem to be
suddenly led by a lamp of more magical power than Aladdin's; for what was his gallery of fruit-trees
bearing, precious stones, to a gallery rich in pictures, the still brighter fruits of genius,
presenting endless variety, each one almost a world in itself, and all, enticing the imagination
into regions unbounded, of charm and loveliness, suggested, though not made visible, but to
the mind's eye? We remember in our school days giving Virgil credit for much tact in endeavouring
to make a gentleman of Æneas, and succeeding too for a while in raising the more than equivocal
character of his hero, by placing him in the picture-gallery of the Queen of Carthage, and
giving him leisure to contemplate and to criticise, and poetically to describe to his silent
and spiritless lounger-friend many noble and many touching works. In this passage we also obtain
the great Latin poet's opinion of the ameliorating effect of "collections." The hero of the
Æneid knew immediately he was among an amiable people. The picture-gallery was the "nova res
oblata" which "timorem leniit"--

    "Hic primum Æneas sperare salutem
    Ausus, et afflictis melius confidere rebus;
    Namque"----

It is singular that all the courts of Europe have, for more than two centuries, been earnestly
engaged in forming public galleries, a national benefit and honour which England had neglected
with her great wealth, and with opportunities singularly favourable, until within a few years;
and even now we are making but very slow progress, and works of art of the olden and golden
time are becoming more rare, and immensely rising in value. Had we, as a nation, collected
even fifty years ago--speaking of the transactions as a money speculation, in which view, according
to the taste of the day, we must look at every thing--our purchases would now have been worth
treble the first cost in money. The unhappy fate of Charles I. was most adverse to the arts
here. It not only scattered the collection made by him, but, by the triumph of Puritanism,
plunged the country first into a dislike of, and, for long subsequent periods, into an indifference
for art. We even doubt if this gross feeling has altogether subsided. We do not yet take a
national pride in works of genius, unless they immediately bear upon the art of living. No
country is so rich as ours in private, and none so poor in public collections. And if we progress
so slowly in our National Gallery, we can scarcely wonder that public institutions of the kind
have not been dreamed of in the provinces. We sincerely hope that the movement Mr Ewart is
making will be crowned with success, and that in time "collections" in our cities and towns
will be the result.

The Musée of Paris, in 1844, contained upwards of fifteen hundred pictures. According to the
catalogue compiled in 1781, the Imperial Gallery of Vienna then contained twelve hundred and
thirty-four. According to the catalogue of 1839, the Dresden gallery contained eighteen hundred
and fifty-seven. At Munich, the present king has erected a spacious building, into which he
has draughted a selection, from among several thousands, of about fifteen hundred. And what
have we done to improve the national taste? And strange, indeed, does it appear, that whenever
such a subject is brought before the public mind in Parliament, it is solely with a view to
the connexion of art with manufactures. There must be in the nature of things a certain connexion;
but unnecessarily to bind them in union is to bind then unnaturally, and to put the shackles
upon the higher, which cannot bear them without degradation. We hail with great pleasure every
publication whose object is to promote a love for the fine arts; and more particularly those
which show a due reverence for the old masters; for, however unwilling we may be to limit the
power of genius, no one who has any pretensions to taste, and is of a cultivated mind, will
deny that, if their works are not perfection, they are at least in a right direction. The novelties
which more modern art has sought will pass away, we are persuaded, as not founded upon true
principles, and we shall best advance by properly appreciating what has been done before us.
We will not here enter into the subject of the décadence of art, nor its causes. We believe
that if adequate national and provincial galleries were formed, more especially at our universities,
the improved public taste would create a demand which this country would not lack genius to
supply. We are not in the exact condition of Italy at the sudden rise of art there. The public,
in the days of Raffaelle and Michael Angelo, had nothing, or but little to unlearn; the previous
aim had fortunately not been very multifarious; the sentiment of art was right, and the direction
true. It remained only to enlarge the sphere; the principles were in being; they required but
confirmation. Grace and power naturally arose; for there was no counteracting education, nothing
positively bad altogether to lay aside, though there was something to correct. Now with us,
on the contrary, art has run into very strange vagaries; the enlargement of the boundaries
has been unlimited, but it has been in regions far below the Parnassian Mount. We have talked
of the High Ideal, and practised and encouraged ad infinitum the Low Natural, and too often
have descended to the worse, the Low Unnatural; so that, upon the whole, we have to unlearn
very much before we can be said to be in the rudiments of Real Art. Let us suppose one born
with every natural endowment, with imagination, and a power of imitation. The mind, after all,
is fed with realities; there is in it also process of digestion, which converts the real into
the imaginative. Now, in early years, how rare it is that the naturally endowed artist is not
ill fed--unhealthy diet of the mind entices him every where. If in the country, he is sparingly
fed--sees little or nothing of Art, little perhaps beyond the Sign of an Inn--and is scarcely,
from other sources of education, taught to look with the mind's eye, through the undignified
appearance, to the actual dignity even of the nature he sees:--if he has lived in the city,
the Print shops are inevitable lures to cheat him by little and little out of his natural taste,
if there be one; for at first it can be but a mere germ. The works of greatness, of goodness,
will be the last things that he will see; for seldom indeed will they be presented to his sight.
For the pure, the sweet, the graceful, the dignified, he will have thrust before his eyes gaudy,
tawdry caricature and grimace; and, worse still, perhaps wholly vulgar obscenities. Were he
in his boyhood given a present in the pictorial line, it would be of an Opera-dancer or a race-course,
or an abomination of London low life. What "slang" is to the ear, so would it be to the eye;
and such is in nine cases out of ten the first education of those aspirants in art, who, ere
they have unlearned any thing, set up for themselves--and abuse the old masters. Generally
speaking, they are brought up in an anti-ideal school; the powers, therefore, that nature has
given them, are not only uncultivated, but led astray; and similar education and similar tastes
in the public, find them a market for very low, very worthless commodities. We have, in fact,
a great deal to unlearn. The first step with us all, is, to unlearn. Could we see nothing bad
it would not be so. That which would, at first view, be thought the greatest benefit to art,
engraving, has but spread the wider the pestilence of false taste. It is from all this the
earlier and greater painters were free. The evil, however, having once so spread, is not to
be easily corrected. Bad taste has claimed a perpetuity of copyright. Good taste must proceed
from an opposite source, and work in spite of the bad. It must come from publications, just
criticisms, lives of painters,[4] familiar treatises on the principles of art; and more especially
from national and other public galleries, to direct attention, and indeed to create a demand
for those other auxiliary works. People will seek to understand and feel that which is continually
put before them. Could they never see any but fine productions, they would soon have a relish
for them that now is impossible; but by little and little, the sight of what is good will create
a liking, and the liking will soon reach an adoration, and the unlearning process is imperceptibly
going on. Corrupted as our eyes now are, we would venture to assert, that were you to offer,
either in prints or originals, to boys of fourth and fifth forms at our public schools, in
one hand a vile and gaudy horse and jockey, and in the other a pure and lovely picture by Raffaelle,
the former would be taken. Here is a lamentable neglect in education; the ear must suffer the
probing and the torture of metres and verse-making, but the eye is left unguarded, unprotected,
to shift for itself, or to yield to the fascinations the first pander of evil chooses to offer.
The school-boy might be improved at the universities; but there, too, is the same neglect.
In our time, it was a rare thing to see a "man's" room without many engravings; and that sufficiently
shows how much a school of art is wanted in those places, and what a hold they would have upon
youth. But we cannot say much for the taste of the productions, that generally we will not
say graced the walls. We had hoped that the Taylor bequest would have established at Oxford,
not only a picture gallery, but a professorship of Painting and Sculpture. A large Building
has been erected; and we have heard of an intention to remove to it some rubbish called pictures.
If that threat be accomplished, we shall despair of seeing them removed to give place to better
things. The majority will be satisfied with seeing walls covered, and look no further. We have
heard likewise that some very valuable pictures have been offered upon very favourable terms
to the university. If there be amongst any an intention of forming a gallery, we would urge
them to use their best endeavours to make as soon as may be a beginning. For every succeeding
year not only increases the difficulty in obtaining the concurrence of influential persons,
but the annually rising value of pictures makes delay an imprudence. Besides, if a beginning
were once made--were it once shown that the universities are in earnest--valuable bequests
might greatly promote the great object. And this is an advantage that admits not of being put
off to the morrow.

We have digressed from our purpose, which was to acknowledge the pleasure we have received
from the pages of M. de Burtin's work; or we should rather say, from Mr White's translation.
We have been some years acquainted with the original work in French. Its value in its present
form is not lessened by the number of years that have passed between the original French edition
and the translation; for general remarks on art are of all times, and there is much in the
particular information the volume contains, such as lists of prices, and some other matters,
from which useful comparisons may be now made.

The author very modestly, in his introduction, professes not to write "for artists nor accomplished
connoisseurs;" yet to such, we believe, the volume, in its compressed form, will be of most
value. He has the honesty to confess that he has learned his connoisseurship at some cost--that
he has been victimized into a knowledge of art. And as this is generally the case with most
collectors in the beginning, and not unfrequently in the end too, he thinks he may be of some
use to others in showing "how to judge pictures well"--"what is a good picture;" and not of
the least value, how to use it when you have it. His qualification as teacher cannot be denied;
for he has not only collected, but travelled much, visited all the important collections, and
by comparing picture with picture, and style with style, he has been enabled to speak with
accuracy upon the distinguishing marks of schools and masters. A universal admiration, a love
that will embrace all schools and all styles, is of very rare attainment, and perhaps hardly
to be desired; for every man of any strength, of any fixed tone of character, must necessarily
have a bias. And besides, one man naturally receives more powerfully impressions through form,
another through colour. It is not inconsistent that a perfect connoisseur should be equally
affected by both; but the mind is not allowed the same latitude with regard to subject; the
passion will ever be for that which is congenial; whatever is foreign to it will receive but
a cold and passing admiration. We should collect from the whole contents of this volume, that
the author was never an enthusiastic admirer of what is termed high Italian art. He seldom
dwells upon "the sublime and beautiful." Gifted rather with a complacent acquiescence in what
is great, than stirred by it to any heat of rapture, it is probable that at least the sphere
of his pleasures was enlarged; and his nice sense of the beauty, touch, and colour, rendered
pictures, of subjects of little interest, more pleasing to him, than they could be to the connoisseur
of more exclusive taste. His predilection is, however, for Colour; and we agree with him, "that
without the science of colouring, that so difficult science, about which the exclusive partisans
of ideal beauty trouble themselves so little, their antiques and their ideal perfection may
produce designs, but never can pictures."

Two definitions are laid down, which, as frequent reference is made to them, we copy. Definition
of painting--"The art of applying colours, without relief, upon a plain surface, so as to imitate
any object in the manner in which it is seen, or may be conceived visible in nature." "A good
picture" he defines to be, "a good choice of subject well represented." If we knew precisely
what is here meant by "nature," a word used by all writers on art in very various senses, and
commonly very vaguely, we might not find fault with the definition; but genius, which has

    "Exhausted worlds, and then imagined new,"

is not too strictly to be limited to the actualities of external nature. It is the nature of
the mind, under certain impulses and impressions, to exaggerate, to combine from memory, not
from sight, even to the verge of the impossible; for even this extravagance is the product
of human passion, which by its nature disdains common boundaries; and this, in painting, is
especially the province of Colour, which may be said to be the poetical language of art, and
admits differences of the same kind as exist between common speech and poetical and figurative
diction.

The painter as well as poet may colour somewhat highly,

    "And breathe a browner horror o'er the woods."

Critics too often write of art as if it had only to do with what actually exists; whereas it
is given to it as to poetry "to make," to create--all that is required is a certain connexion
with the real, sometimes exceedingly slight, which shall be sufficiently delusive for present
purpose. The agile mind can pass over a deep and formidable chasm upon a slender thread; and
when over, is too much occupied in the new region to turn back and measure the means of passage.
We suspect our author's view of nature is too limited.

Upon "a good choice of subject" are some good remarks. Disgusting subjects are justly condemned.
"It is evident that an animal, flayed or embowelled, entrails, meat raw or mangled, blood,
excrements, death's-heads, carcasses, and similar objects, if they strike upon the view too
much, will be as disgusting in a picture as they are in nature; and that grimaces, hideous
or monstrous deformities, whether moral or physical, will be as shocking in the one as the
other. Events which are sufficiently unnatural, barbarous, and cruel, to shake violently the
soul, and cause it to tremble with insurmountable horror, create an agitation too frightful
for it to resist, much less to be pleased with. Subjects of so bad a choice, (which Horace
severely prohibits from being introduced upon the scene,) do little honour to the painter.
They become even more insupportable in proportion as they approach nearer to reality by the
perfection of their execution." The translator thinks his "author has stated this too broadly;"
and instances, as pictures of this kind to be admired for their truth, The Lesson of Anatomy,
by Rembrandt; Prometheus Devoured by the Vulture, by Salvator Rosa; Raising of Lazarus, by
Sebastian del Piombo. Of the two first subjects, we think they are to be condemned, if, in
the Prometheus, the enduring mind of Prometheus be not the subject. But surely the grand picture
of Piombo, though it is all awful, has in it nothing disgusting, or that comes within the condemned
list. The question to be asked in all these cases is, what is the object, as well as what is
the subject. Is it to teach, to improve, to soften the mind by human love and sympathy, or
to excite it to a just and hopeful indignation, for therein is a source of pleasure? The rule
of tragedy should be applicable here. Undoubtedly, we receive pleasure from tragic representations.
Isolated, barbarism, cruelty would be intolerably disgusting. But in every good tragedy, there
are always good and lovely characters with whom we can sympathise. We are bettered by thus
uniting ourselves with what is lovely; and are content to take at second-hand, and thus feel
only in a safe degree, the distresses to which, as human nature ourselves, we are liable. In
pictured representation, however, we have to guard against the too vivid, and at the same time
too permanent, as being a fixed expression, which, by the art and power of language, we are
not allowed to dwell upon too exclusively; and relief is offered in change and diversity. There
are some very judicious remarks upon disgusting subjects in "An Essay on the Choice of Subjects
in Painting," read, we believe, some years ago, by Mr Duncan, at the Institution at Bath. We
remember an account in the Essay of a very ridiculous burlesque (it is not intended so to be)
of some of the horrific legends of the Italian schools. The picture was exhibited in the chapel
of Johanna Southcote, at Newington Butts, near London. St Johanna was represented in a sky-blue
dress, leading the devil with a long chain, like a dancing-bear, surrounded by adoring angels.
Is not this doubtful? "I add, that, excepting man, that King of Nature, whose head presents
to a painter the subject that is most interesting for character, grace, dignity, and expression
of the whole mind, of which it is the mirror, no animal, dead or alive, affords, in any one
part of its frame, whatever care may be taken in the execution, more than a subject for a study,
or will by any means form what can be called a picture." This surely is not quite true. There
is a very fine picture of a lioness, dimly seen at the mouth of her den, in grim repose, that
is very grand. One colour pervades the whole--there is nothing forced; but the very colour
is of the stealthiness of the animal's nature; it is so dim, that the animal is not strikingly
discoverable, but grows out upon the sight, and we feel the sense of danger with the knowledge
of security. And surely this is the sublime of art. Had the author seen some of the noble animals,
gifted with noble characters by nature, and by the hand of our Landseer, he would have hesitated
ere he pronounced thus strongly.

The choice of a subject is considered as belonging solely to invention, irrespective of composition
or disposition. "The honour of inventing truly belongs to him whose imagination creates all,
or almost all, of new." A distinction is made between composition and design: indeed, according
to our author, there are three parts of invention--composition, disposition, and design. There
is a repetition of the charge of disproportion in objects, brought against Raffaelle, to which
we do not implicitly bow. He is considered as having "committed two striking faults against
nature and lineal perspective, in his famous picture of the Transfiguration, by the ridiculous
smallness of his Mount Tabor, and by the disproportionable size of the Christ and of the two
Prophets." But we question if the mind, in that state of feeling in which it beholds a miraculous
and altogether overwhelming subject, is not necessarily in a condition to overstep the actual
rules of nature, and to receive a type of things for the reality, admitting the small to stand
for the great. Were it conscious of very exact formal truth, the power of the subject would
be reduced. Actual perspective would have, in Raffaelle's case, ruined the picture. There was
that boldness of genius which Shakspeare, when the nature of the subject required it, adopted,
which made the one, leap over time, and the other, space and proportion.

Under the head "disposition of the subject," there is a somewhat unsatisfactory sentence. "It
contributes to the 'goodness' of the picture," "if it avoid uniformity and positions that are
too symmetrical; if it distribute the light well; if by means of it the groups pyramid and
unite well; and if it give value to all the parts of the picture by means of each other, in
such a manner as that the result shall be a satisfactory whole." There is much here that is
true; but there is something false. And that which is false in it, has often strangely misled
artists in their arrangement and grouping. There are some subjects of a perfectly symmetrical
character; however rare they may be, there are some. Raffaelle, in his cartoon of delivering
the keys to Peter, paints, as nearly as may be, all the apostles' heads in one line. Is not
the character of Gothic architecture symmetrical? Painters of architectural subjects very commonly
overlook this, and by perspective difference destroy this orderly character. Few make the centre
the point of sight; which is, however, the proper one for representation, as it alone shows
the exact conformity and order, the idea of which it was the purpose of the architect to present,
and which constitutes the beauty. The "pyramid" rule is manifestly absurd, and seldom has even
a tolerably good effect. It was the quackery of a day.[5] The good masters did not work upon
it. It is, in fact, a little truth taken out of a greater, and misapplied--a part of that circular
character of composition, as it were a principle of reflection, by which lines close in upon
or recede from each other. We have, in a former paper in this Magazine, treated of this principle--to
dwell on it now would take us far from our purpose. As to the ability of all persons to judge
of the naturalness of a picture, the translator doubts the correctness of the affirmative opinion
of his author. He remarks, that "it requires considerable practice and experience to enable
one to judge how much art can do; what is the exact medium between feebleness and exaggeration,
which constitutes the all-surpassing quality of truth, of which he declares himself a partisan;
and in what manner one painter differs from or excels another in the representation of it."
It may also be observed, that people in general have uncultivated eyes, and see not the whole
beauties of any one object; they are commonly quite ignorant of ideal and sentimental beauty,
almost wholly arising out of the power of art--the representing the imagination. It is when
such persons are called upon to see nature in a picture, that they show how imperfect their
sight has been. Seeing the representation in a frame, they know it to be a work of art, and
generally object to shadow; whereas, could they see the picture placed at an open window or
some deceiving position, they would be deceived. Many, knowing the intention is to deceive
them, are ready armed with objections, which, however, they make because they have sought them,
not because they have felt them. What we term local colour, is termed by M. de Burtin proper
colour; local colour he considers as the colour made variable by space, by locality, air, light,
and surrounding bodies. The distinction may be useful; but proper colour will itself be difficult
to discover, for we never can see it entirely separated from some foreign influence. In a picture
it would be perhaps best to consider that the proper colour which would be proper to the half-tone,
whether modified by aerial perspective or not. He considers that proper colour is not shown
mostly in objects in the foreground, for there the light which destroys it is most powerful;
light destroys proper colour, and substitutes its own. "It is the perfect understanding of
this interesting principle, which renders the works of Rubens, and of his best scholars, so
superior for their magic truth of colour. It is this which explains why they make the colour
of the blood to appear through the fine and transparent skin of their Flemings, particularly
of the women, only in proportion as the effect of the light is lost in the retiring parts;
and why the red prevails more in these parts in general, which are illuminated only by a reflected
light too feeble to change the natural colour. The latter may often be even strengthened by
the colour of the object from which the reflected light proceeds, which happens when one flesh
part is reflected upon another, as may be remarked more particularly towards the extremities."

The following quotation is well worth considering--the observation it contains is new. "As
to the influence of light upon the local colours, one of the plainest proofs of it is, that
the colour of objects seen in broad day, diminishes in force the more that the sun enlightens
the distant plain on which they are placed. This observation, and many other analogous ones,
convince me that the light in a picture in general exerts a greater influence upon the local
colours than even the air, although those who have written upon the art seem to attribute the
local colours exclusively to the interposition of the air and the vapours with which it is
charged. The above remark, though useful to all painters, becomes the more indispensable to
those who have to do with landscape, seeing that without attention to it, the aerial perspective
would render useless, by a false and mannered representation, the just proportions and the
exact contours dictated by linear perspective. Another remark, not less interesting, is, that
the colour of cast shadows depends, beyond every thing, on that of the light, and consequently
on the state of the atmosphere and the time of the day, as well as the season of the year."
Hence is it that the brown shadows of art, which are adopted for the sake of warm, are, in
good painters such as Vandyke, always blended with the silvery grey.

"Of the general tone of colour."--This part of the subject is treated rather with regard to
strict observation of nature, than its poetical applicability to art. For surely there is a
distinction; there should be a tone of colour belonging to the subject, irrespective of the
actual colour of place or time of day, properly belonging to the action represented. It is
well observed, that the argentine or silvery tone so much admired and sought after by amateurs,
"is nothing but the faithful imitation of the tone assumed by nature in countries where the
rays of the sun are not too perpendicular, every time that the air is in that state of transparency
required to temper to the necessary degree the too brilliant blue of a pure sky, and itself
to receive and transmit this desirable silvery tone which delights the spectator." By this
it would appear that our artists' dreams of countries, alio sub sole, are not likely to bring
beauty of colour to their pictures--that the fables of Eastern skies are, with regard to art,
fables; and though there is now always an attempt, and that by no mean powers, to drag the
spectators at our exhibitions under the very chariot of the sun, "sub curru nimium propinqui
solis," real beauty of colour will be found much nearer home.

We are somewhat surprised by, as it would appear from the general observations of De Burtin,
an accidental truth which he has not elsewhere followed to its consequences. "If pictures offend
against nature, and become cold by the employment of cold colours upon them, such as black,
white, blue, and green, either pure or bluish, and by the omission of the glazings which the
tone of the light requires, or if they become so from the natural coldness of night and of
snow, not remedied by art, the painter ought to correct the fault in the manner I have previously
hinted at." In the following remark, we can see the great defect in the colouring of Murillo's
pictures, especially in his backgrounds, who appears always to have painted on a wet and dingy
day. "But nothing can correct the cold of a sky concealed by the kind of clouds last mentioned,
or rendered totally invisible by mist." He rescues the clear-obscure from the meaning commonly
attached to it as light and shade. "In the literal sense, this word means nothing but the obscure
which is at the same time clear." It should rather be defined to be light in shadow; but it
will be difficult to establish any other sense for it than the disposition of the light and
shade in a picture. The inventor of it, for practical use, was Leonardo da Vinci. Of this chiaroscuro
he says: "It is this, in fine, against which so many renowned Italian masters have sinned,
but in which the immortal Correggio is so eminently distinguished, and which proves how they
err who have named Titian the prince of colourists. For how much soever he may possess in a
supreme degree very many other parts of colouring, he has so misunderstood this one in his
general harmony, that his grounds are rarely in agreement with the rest of his picture, and
are often all black. His Venus, in the Dresden gallery, and his Ecce Homo, in that of Vienna,
two of his most renowned pictures but especially the latter, present striking proofs, among
very many others, of the correctness of my opinion on this great colourist."

Those who object, as some venture to do, to Titian's colour, especially in his backgrounds,
we believe overlook his intention, and are not aware how much what they consider defects affect
the whole. Objections have been made to the background of the Peter Martyr, without considering
how appropriate the colouring is to the subject. There are some just observations on the necessity
of transparency, which should not be confined to shadows and demi-tints, "which cannot do without
it." It has been said that Titian and Correggio glazed over every part of the picture, thereby
giving even the lights a sort of transparency. Of harmony of colour, he says, "Under the pencil
of an intelligent artist, local colours, even the least agreeable, and those which have the
least affinity among themselves, may become very agreeable to the eye, and contribute powerfully
to the harmony of the picture through the interposition of some other colour, as in music discordant
tones are happily united by means of intermediate ones." The translator appends to this a note
in which he quotes from Mengs, that "The three primary colours being red, blue, and yellow,
when any one of them is prominently used, it should be accompanied by one which unites the
other two. Thus, if pure red be used, it should be accompanied by green, which is a compound
of blue and yellow. This compound colour is called the contrasting colour, and is always used
sparingly. But the harmonizing colour is said to be the compound made by any one colour itself,
along with the next adjoining to it on either side of the spectrum. Thus red will be harmonized
by purple, the colour produced by compounding it with blue on the one side of it, and it will
also be harmonized by orange, which is the colour produced by compounding it with the yellow,
next to it on the other side of the spectrum." In treating "of the effect" of a picture, although
the author with a kind of reluctance admits, or "will not condemn absolutely" factitious effects,
he has no predilection for them, and blames for the extravagant use of them Carravagio and
others of the Italian schools. Unquestionably they afford a power which should be used with
judgment, then most applicable when the supernatural of the subject overpowers the familiarity
of more natural effects. Of the "empasto," so much spoken of by connoisseurs, he is an admirer.
He directs that the "colours which compose the empasto" should be perfectly well ground, and
the ground perfectly smoothed. Yet this was not always the case in the empasto of Paul Veronese,
whose empasto was often of a broken and mortary surface; and it would appear, from an examination
of such parts of his pictures, as if he had purposely used water with his oil-paint, which
would have the effect of slightly separating the particles, and thereby giving brilliancy from
the broken surface of refracting particles. This seems to have escaped the notice of M. de
Burtin in this place. It has been said of Michael Angelo, that he never painted more than one
picture in oil. Like the relics of saints, that one has wonderfully multiplied. Our author
speaks of one in his own possession, which is certainly not described as according to the manner
we should expect on that great master. "A truly unique picture, by the great Michael Angelo
Buonarroti, in my possession, proves to what an astonishing degree art can imitate gold, silver,
and stones, without using the originals, by the magic illusion with which the rare genius has
painted them as ornaments. They look as if relieved on the armour of the two cavaliers, insomuch
that one would believe them to be truly the work of an actual chisel." He admires the smooth
empasto; and among the painters who practised it, laudably mentions Vander Werff. But he blames
others less known for carrying it out to an extreme finish. To our taste, the smooth empasto
of Vander Werff is most displeasing; rendering flesh ivory, and, in that master, ivory without
its true and pleasing colour. This branch of the subject ends with remarks on touch, which
completes the list of the parts that contribute "to make a good picture." The manner of a painter
is in nothing so distinguished as in his touch. There must, then, be great variety in the touch
of painters. To be a judge of masters, it is necessary, as the first step to connoisseurship,
to be acquainted with this executive part of their art. "Since it is correct to say that without
a good touch there cannot be a good picture, one may say likewise, that he is not a good master
who has not a good touch, and who does not know how to avoid using it too much." It is a mark
of a defective mind, when the painter is too much pleased with the dexterity of his hand. Many
however, require this hint; their pictures are so overlaid with touch, that the autographs
supersede the subject.

The incipient connoisseur will do well to read the chapter in this volume which will tell him
"how to judge pictures well." It will tell him even in what position to see a picture. He disapproves
of the use of the mirror, in which the picture is reflected as giving a softness and harmony
not genuine; but as it was the practice of Giorgione and Correggio, "in order to learn the
effect of the colours, of the masses, and of the work as a whole," he recommends it to the
painter. He expects, however, from the amateur an impartiality almost impossible to attain,
when it is expected to reach such a point that "all schools, all masters, all manners, and
all classes of pictures will be a matter of indifference to him." We fear that an amateur who
could reach this indifference, would be rather a general admirer than a good lover. The amateur
thus advanced, "will soon be able to weigh impartially the grounds of the dispute between the
partisans of ideal beauty on the one hand, and the beauty which exists in nature on the other."
But here is a mistake in initio; for is not the Ideal, too, Nature? We should have rather expected
a disquisition to elucidate this point; but our author prefers passing away from the real question
to indulge in a little severity on the admirers of the Ideal, which Ideal we are persuaded
he never understood; for he considers evidently that the "ideal beauties," with the "magic
truth" of the Dutch school in execution, would be perfection. He would view a work painted
under this union as perfection. To us it would, we feel quite sure, be an intolerable performance.
For this little bit of bad taste he is called to account by his translator. The author's taste
was, after all, we suspect, rather incomplete; rather the product of an educated eye than of
a mind educated to embrace the Ideal. The fact is, the Ideal in practice must be the reach
of a something which the eye, however educated, does not altogether find in external nature;
but which, from the data of external nature, the mind creates, partly by combination, and partly
from a power of its own invention altogether. The external senses in educated man are obedient
to this inventive direction of the mind, and at length receive their greater, perhaps often
only, pleasures from it. It is easy to imagine how the more evident and real beauties of the
inferior schools, for we do not hesitate to speak of the Italian as the higher, more easily
captivate, especially, the incipient lovers of art. They begin by collecting the Dutch; but
as they advance in taste and knowledge, and acquire the legitimate feeling for art, they are
sure to end with the Italian. The uninitiated may wonder to be told there is any difficulty
in judging "whether a picture is in good preservation or not." Yet here is a chapter to teach
this "useful knowledge." The "perils that flesh is heir to," are nothing if compared to the
perils that environ the similitudes of flesh. "Nos nostraque morti debemur." Men and pictures
suffer from the doctors as well as from time. Pictures, too, are often in the "hand of the
spoiler," and are subject, with their owners, to a not very dissimilar quackery of potion and
lotion, undergo as many purifications, nor do they escape the knife and scarification; are
laid upon their backs, rubbed and scrubbed, skinned, and oftentimes reduced to the very ribs
and dead colouring of what they were. It is surprising how great a number of pictures are ruined
by the cleaners. We are sorry to read this account of Correggio's celebrated Notte. "Even when
they do not destroy the picture entirely, they, at all events, leave the most injurious traces
behind, depriving it of its transparency and harmony, and much of the effect, rendering it
hard, cold, and weak. Of this the admirable 'Night' of Correggio at Dresden presents a very
sad example."

We look upon the audacious man who dares to repaint upon an old picture unnecessarily, and
by wholesale, as guilty of a crime. It is the murder of another man's offspring, and of his
name and fame at the same time. We have heard of a man half a century ago going about the country
to paint new wigs upon the Vandykes. We would have such a perpetrator bastinadoed on the soles
of his feet. "I was present," says our author, "at Amsterdam during a dispute between one who
had just sold a landscape for several thousand florins, and the agent who had made the purchase
on commission. The latter required an important change to be made towards the centre of the
picture, which he contended would be very much improved thereby. It was in vain that the seller,
with whom I agreed in opinion upon the point, persisted in refusing to repaint a work in such
good preservation, and by so great a master; for the broker closed his lips by protesting,
that unless the demand were complied with, he was instructed to throw up the bargain." We look
with equal horror on buyer and seller. Would not the latter have sold his father, mother, brothers,
sisters, aunts, and cousins? It has been said that, in compliment to William III., many of
the portraits of the ancestors of the courtiers of the day were re-painted with aquiline noses.
M. de Burtin very justly observes, that the new touches on old pictures do not preserve their
tone, but he does not give the true reason. He seems to entertain no notion that pictures were
painted with any other vehicle than common oil; and, in a short discussion upon Van Eyck's
discovery, he only shows that he takes up what others have said, and never himself could have
read what the monk Theophilus really wrote; for, like M. Merimée, he supposes the monk to say
what he never did say. It is only surprising that, in his numerous cleanings, he did not discover
the difference between the old paint of one date and of another, and how they require different
solvents. There is a chapter upon "the manner of knowing and appreciating copies," from which
the beginner, in collecting, may take some useful hints. He repeats the well-known anecdote
of the copy from Raffaelle by Andrea del Sarto, which Julio Romano, who had worked upon the
picture, believed to be the original, though assured beforehand by Vasari that it was a copy.
With regard to Rubens, by far the greater number of pictures said to be by him, are by the
hands of his scholars, to whom he gave the design and outline merely, sometimes touching up
the pictures with his own hand. This has been a common and a justifiable practice with great
painters, both ancient and modern, or it would have been impossible for any one pair of hands
to have done the works which bear the names of some well-employed painters. The few pictures
entirely by the hand of Rubens confirm the suspicion as to others, by their superiority. Contemporary
copies he considers in a very different light from more modern, because the modern being from
the old after they had deepened, deepen still more, and in a few years scarcely resemble in
tone the originals. It is from such copies that an ill name has been given to all copies. We
have very little feeling for amateurs in their annoyances and embarrassments, who discover
that they have only purchased a copy; for they did not judge according to the merits of the
picture, but the name under which it was admitted.

The sixth chapter, upon "The manner of analysing and describing pictures," furnishes some good
hints to catalogue-makers and auctioneers. The examples are ingeniously worded, and with no
little precision. The number given is but a selection from about 240 pages. Whoever will try
his hand at a descriptive catalogue, will find it not so easy a task as he imagined. We should
have perhaps entertained a higher opinion of the author's judgment, though not a higher of
his descriptive power, supposing it to have been exercised as a disciple of the noted Mr Puff,
who took a double first in those arts, had the translator kindly omitted an outline of a picture
by Poelemburg--The Adoration of the Shepherds. It is certainly well described in generality
and detail; but never was any thing more like Mr Puff's style than the following:--"Poelemburg
has here surpassed himself by the exactness of the design, and the fine form of the figures.
He has carried to the highest degree their gracious and simple expression. The picture is not
less distinguished for the attractive effect of light well distributed, for harmony and the
clear obscure, for the agreeable and sweet tone of the proper colours, and for that truth,"
&c. &c. &c.--but alas! the outline! "Look on this picture and on this." It may have been a
pretty picture, though the subject is much above Poelemburg; but--shall we pronounce it?--the
design is wretched--we cannot help it, and would spare it if we could. Strange are the blunders
made in descriptive catalogues. An instance is given--an amusing specimen from a well-established
manufactory. "The famous picture of Raffaelle, painted for the church of St John at Bologna,
representing St Cecilia holding a musical instrument in her hands, with others at her feet,
affords an example of the errors alluded to. She listens with rapt attention to a choir of
angels borne on the clouds, and singing. On her right hand are St Paul and St John the Evangelist,
strongly characterized; the one by his sword, the other by his eagle, and both by the airs
of the heads. On her left are St Magdalene with her cup, and St Augustine with his cross and
pontifical garments." Hitherto all the world had been agreed upon the justness of the description;
but the author of the Manual of the French Museum, printed in 1803, judged it proper to make
one of his own, of which behold the title and the substance--The Martyrdom of St Cecilia.

"Raffaelle would not represent the martyrdom of a young virgin like the execution of a malefactor.
Here Cecilia advances towards the place where the palm of martyrdom awaits her. Her feet only
still belong to this earth. Her upraised eyes tell that her thoughts are already in heaven.
The man who bears the sword is not an executioner whose stern ferocity augments that of the
spectacle. Here the headsman has an air of compassion. Behind the saint walks a priest who
assists her. His physiognomy is common, but sweet. He applauds the tranquil resignation of
the victim, who seems already to hear the celestial concert that is going on above. The angels
celebrate her coming before hand! One of the companions of Cecilia points them out to her with
his finger, and seems to do so as an encouragement to her. A young man follows the saint. His
action is too expressive to suppose it that of a parent or convert." This is indeed a very
fine specimen, both for what is said and what is unsaid--the surmise is perfectly French, and
the pitying tender familiarity of Cecilia, for commiseration's sake robbed of her saintship,
would be enough to melt an auction-room to tears, were the picture to be sold and thus described.

The very best auction description of a picture we remember ever to have heard, was one most
fluently given, and with a most winning and gentlemanly manner, by Mr Christie, the father
of the present justly appreciated Mr Christie, as true and honourable as unerring in his judgment
of pictures. It was many years ago. The picture to be sold was the celebrated one of the three
goddesses, The Judgment of Paris, a large picture. Now the difficulty of the case lay in this,
that it was well known that there were three pictures of the subject, all claiming to be originals.
This was well known and talked about. There were in fact three pictures of the judgment of
Paris. After minutely and most ably describing the picture, Mr Christie came to this delicate
acknowledgment. He admitted there were three; the great painter, delighted with his subject,
enamoured of the beauties he had created, had, as it were, thrice thrown himself at the feet
of each goddess. The three pictures were an offering and homage to each. None could determine
which was best. The subject was the Judgment of Paris--it was an enviable opportunity for a
happy purchaser "to throw the golden apple." We do not pretend to give, with any exactness,
the eloquent wording of this address; nor can we describe the perfect grace with which it was
delivered. Every one in the room seemed to know that he was listening to a scholar and a gentleman,
and felt a confidence. But to return to De Burtin. The chapter on "the general schools of painting,"
contains both useful information and judicious remarks. He mentions the embarrassment the amateur
must feel, seeing that authors are not agreed among themselves in the number and classification
of schools. Some reckon three, some five, some eight, some extend the number to twelve. Lanzi
even makes fourteen of the Italian schools alone. "In order that the school of a particular
city or country may take its place among the general schools, it is necessary, in my opinion,
that it shall have produced a great many masters celebrated for their merit, and that these
shall have in their style and manner something common to them all, which particularly characterizes
them, and which is sufficiently remarkable to distinguish their school from all others. Upon
this principle, I reckon eight schools in all; and these are, the Florentine or Tuscan, the
Roman, the Lombard, the Venetian, the Flemish, the Dutch, the French, and the German. If it
were sufficient to have given to the world artists renowned for their merit, the Spanish might
likewise claim a place among the general schools, were it only from having possessed a Morales,
a Velasquez, and a Murillo. Naples, too, might enjoy the same privilege, from the names of
Spagnoletto, Calabrese, Salvator Rosa, and Luca Giordano. Genoa, likewise, from Castiglione,
Strozzi, Castelli, and Cambiasi. But the want of a general distinctive character prevents their
being ranked under the general schools, and the masters are, for the most part, placed separately
in that one or other of the acknowledged schools to which their manner approaches most nearly,
or to which their master belonged." The distinguishing marks of the schools are ably laid down.
The author confesses that he feels a difficulty in generalizing the characteristics of the
Florentine school. He adopts the somewhat exaggerated (as he allows) account of M. Levesque.
His characteristics are--fine movement, a certain sombre austerity, an expression of vigour,
which excludes perhaps that of grace, a character of design, the grandeur of which is in some
sort gigantic. They may be reproached with a kind of exaggeration; but it cannot be denied
that there is in this exaggeration an ideal majesty, which elevates human nature above the
weak and perishing nature of reality. The Tuscan artists, satisfied with commanding admiration,
seem to disdain seeking to please. The description of the Roman school we conceive to be not
so fortunate. Its excellence is attributed to the antique, distinguished "by great beauty in
the forms, a composition elegant, although often singular, and by expressions ideal rather
than natural, of which a part is often sacrificed to the preservation of beauty." If we receive
as models of these two most celebrated schools, Michael Angelo Buonarroti, and Raffaelle, (though
it should be observed, if we look to the actual genius of these great men, we must not forget
the early age at which Raffaelle died,) such distinction as this may be drawn. That the Florentine
school had for its object the personal, the absolute bodily power and dignity of man, and such
strong intellect and energy as would be considered in necessary agreement with that perfect
condition of the human form. That there is therefore, in their vigorous delineations, a great
and simple, and, as it were, gigantic rudeness very perceptible. On the contrary, in the Roman,
the subordination of the person to the cultivated mind is decidedly marked. It is the delineation
of man further off from his ruder state, showing in aspect, and even in bodily movements, the
mental cultivation. The one school is of an Antediluvian, the other of a Christian race. Hence,
in the latter, under the prerogative of love, grace and a nicer beauty are assumed; and a delicacy
and purity arising from minds educated to bear, to forbear, chastened by trial, endowed with
a new greatness not inconsistent with gentleness. Yet was simplicity strongly marked in the
Roman school; nor do we think the blame thrown upon their colouring justly thrown, as it was
most consistent with the characteristic dignified simplicity; nor do we agree with those who
think it inharmonious in itself. Baroccio is praised, in that he added somewhat of the colouring
of Correggio to the study of the antique and the works of Raffaelle; but it is more than doubtful
if the innovation upon the Roman simplicity be not a deterioration of the school. The colouring,
the chief characteristic of the Venetian school, represents mankind in a still further onward
(we use not the word advanced, because it may be misunderstood) state, in the state of more
convention, of manners, and of luxury. Hence even most refined subjects of the Venetian are,
with regard to purity, and moral and intellectual beauty, in a grade of inferiority to the
Roman and Florentine. They are of the age of a civil government rather than of a religious
influence. The countenances indicate the business of the world; the more varied costume, the
more rich covering of the figures, with less of the nude, are marks of merchandise and traffic.
This is perceptible, and possibly somewhat to the disparagement of the full display of the
subject, in the grand picture of Del Piombo, the Raising of Lazarus, though perhaps that picture,
bearing such evidence of the design if not the hand of Michael Angelo, may by some not be admitted
as belonging to the Venetian school. We mean not to say that the Venetian school did not advance
the art by the new power of colour, the invention of that school; it opened the way to a new
class of subjects, which still admitted much of the grand and the pathetic. It certainly did
more; it showed that there was a grand and a pathetic in colour alone, a principle of art which,
though first shown, and not in its perfect degree by the Venetians, has never yet been carried
out as a principle. We hear much of its beauty, its harmony, in a limited sense of its power,
but seldom of its sentiment.

The remarks of M. de Burtin upon the Peter Martyr of Titian are very strange. He must have
been much deceived when he saw this wonderful picture, either by its position or the state
of his own vision. We saw the picture out of its frame, and down against the wall, and saw
no factitious unnatural effect, nor any black and white. "This picture," he says, "so full
of merit in other respects, presents a striking example of the factitious and unnatural effect
produced by the extraordinary opposition of black and white. I am well aware that gay and brilliant
colouring would not be appropriate to a cruel action; but a measure is to be observed in every
thing, and I cannot be convinced that there could occur, in broad day, and in the open air,
a scene in which all was obscure and black except the figures." Obscurity and blackness in
Titian's Peter Martyr! Our author has attached the school of Bologne to that of Lombardy, as
others have done, in consideration that the Caracci in forming their school greatly studied
Correggio. Yet undoubtedly Correggio stands quite apart from the Caracci. The Bologna was in
fact a "Composite" school. If the Venetian school was indicative of business, of the activities
of society as a mass, the Lombard school, as first distinguished by Correggio, assumed more
homely grace, it was domestic, of the hearth--the cherished love, the sweet familiar grace.
This was its characteristic; it bore a kind of garden luxuriance and richer embellishment of
colour, not the embellishment of civic pomp as seen in the Venetian, but a coloured richness
as of the fruit and flower of a new Eden. The Holy Families of Correggio are in fragrant repose.
The earth pays the homage of her profusion, and, as conscious of the presence of him that shall
remove her curse, puts on her gorgeous apparel. The next descent from this grade of art would
be to the pastoral. M. de Burtin objects to the airs of the heads, "graceful and smiling felt
not to be altogether appropriate when the action is sad or violent." We can imagine that he
alludes to the picture of the Martyrdom of St Placidus and Flavia at Parma. The smiling saint
receiving the sword in her bosom, as a boon in thankfulness or that coming bliss which is already
hers in vision, is perhaps as touching as any expression ever painted by Correggio. Did our
author miss the meaning of that devotional and more than hopeful smile? This picture, like
some others of Correggio, is very grey, and has probably had much of its glazing removed. In
M. de Burtin's notice of the Flemish school, we entirely pass over the discussion respecting
Van Eyck and his discovery; enough has been said upon that subject. The partiality of our author
for Rubens is very perceptible. The characteristics of the Flemish school are confined to Historical
painting, and even in that class there is scarcely more than one example, Rubens. Between Rubens
and Vandyke there is certainly affinity beyond that of colouring, though in colouring to a
limited degree. Between Rubens and Teniers there is surely a gap of many classes. If there
be any characteristic mark common to both, it must lie in the silvery lightness of colouring,
distinctness and freedom of touch, as if both had used the same vehicle, and in the same manner,
allowance being made for the size and subjects of their pictures. We are not disposed to detract
from the reputation of Rubens as a colourist; no painter perhaps better understood theoretically
and practically the science of the harmony of colours, and their application to natural representation.
But he was entirely careless as to sentiment of colouring. Action even to its utmost superiority
was his forte, and for this one expression his colouring, by its vivid power and contrasts,
was certainly very admirable.

The Dutch school is so blended with the Flemish, separating from both Rubens and Vandyke, and
their immediate scholars, that it is difficult to speak of them as distinct schools. Fascinating
as they undoubtedly are, they utterly abandon the power to teach for the art of pleasing. They
are not for the public; have little to do with events of any great interest. There is a manifest
descent from the high pretensions of art; the aim is to gratify the mere love of exact imitation,
and to interest by portraiture of manners. "If, then," says our author, "truth of imitation
is the first business of works of art; if, without that, no picture is in a situation to please;
if all that is visible over the whole face of nature be included in the domain of painting,
how is it that among the exclusive partisans of historical subjects, there are persons so blind
as not to see that the marvellous productions of this school, and of the Flemish, have filled
with admirable success the immense gaps which their vaunted Italian schools have left in different
parts of art?"

The very first sentence of this passage is of very undefined sense; we can guess at what is
meant by the sneer upon the "vaunted Italian schools." There are not only immense gaps, but
great gulfs, over which there is no legitimate passage. If these schools have "done so much
honour to the art of painting," as M. de Burtin asserts that they have, it has rather been
in their perpetuating it as a practical art, than by adding to its dignity or importance. If,
however, it be allowable to separate Rubens from the Flemish school, we may with still greater
propriety set apart by himself that extraordinary man Rembrandt, who, if any, had some insight
of the sentiment of colour.

Very little compliment is paid to the French school by De Burtin. He considers that it has
no characteristic but that of the imitation of all schools. It should be observed in justice
to more modern French painters, that this was written in 1808. The very opposite opinions of
M. Levesque against, and Lairesse in favour of Simon Vouet, the founder of the school, are
quoted. The opinions of neither will weigh much with modern critics, even though it were certain
that those ascribed to Lairesse were his. Neither Claude nor Nicolas Poussin are allowed to
belong to the French school. We presume De Burtin had but little taste for landscape, for he
does not mention, we believe, in this whole work, Gaspar Poussin--nor does he dwell much upon
Claude. It is extraordinary that in mentioning the one, he should take no notice of his great
contemporary.

And here we may observe, that writers on art have ever been neglectful in the extreme with
regard to this part of art--we should add, this delightful part, and so capable of sentiment.
They take a vast jump from the high Italian Historic (of Figures) to the low Flemish and Dutch,
not even in those latter schools discriminating the better portion of the landscape from the lower.

There is wanting a new classification, one not so much of schools, nor of styles per se, as
of subjects--in which the School of Landscape would require an ample treatment. It is a school
which, by the neglect of critics, has been allowed to descend to its lowest depth; yet is it
one which is daily becoming more the public taste--a taste, nevertheless, which has as yet
given to it but little of its former elevation, which it had entirely lost before it reached
us through the deterioration of the Dutch and Flemish schools.

The German school, the first in antiquity, was extinguished with its masters. It was founded
by Albert Durer, whose genius was acknowledged and admired by Raffaelle himself. The modern
German school was not in existence at the date of this publication in 1808.

An entire chapter is given upon "the causes of the characteristics which distinguish the different
schools from each other." There is, however, nothing new said upon this subject. Undoubtedly
there is much truth in the following passage: "So much did the liberty which the Dutch had
just recovered from the Spaniards, by unheard-of efforts, become fatal among them to the same
class of art, the foundations of which they sapped by their resolution to banish their priests,
and to substitute a religion that suffers neither pictures nor statues of saints in their churches.
From that time all the views of their painters were necessarily turned to the other classes
of art, more susceptible of a small form, and therefore more suitable to the private houses
of the Dutch, which, though neat and commodious, are not sufficiently large for pictures of
great size." If the dignity of art is to be recovered, it will be by national galleries, and
we might yet perhaps hope, by re-opening our churches for the admission of scriptural pictures.

The chapter upon the division of pictures into classes, is by no means satisfactory. It is
admitted by the translator to be incomplete. At its conclusion is a quotation from Pliny, which,
as it is intended to justify De Burtin's taste for the low Flemish and Dutch schools, does
not indicate a very high taste in either Pliny or himself. Pliny says of Pyreicus, that "few
artists deserve to be preferred to him. That he painted, in small, barbers' and shoemakers'
stalls, asses, bears, and such things." He further adds, that his works obtained larger prices
than other artists of nobler subjects obtained, and that he was not degraded by choosing such
low subjects. We beg pardon of Pliny, but we would not give three farthings for his pictorial
judgment. Indeed, had not Lucian given us some most vivid descriptions of some of the ancient
pictures, we should have had no very high opinion of them. For the well-known anecdotes speak
only in favour of mechanical excellence. Our author, in his chapter on the art of describing
pictures, might have taken Lucian for his model with great propriety. There is in this chapter
on division into classes, much nonsense about beauty, Ideal and Physical. De Burtin thinks
we have not any instinctive feeling for physical beauty as of moral beauty; that a fixed proportion
of parts neither in men nor animals, any more than in architecture, is the foundation of beauty--which
is perfectly ridiculous, and not worth an argument. Ideal beauty he here treats with great
contempt, and points out two truths on this matter demonstrated by comparative anatomy; "the
one of which is, that the beauty of the antique heads depends chiefly on the facial line in
them, making an angle of 100 degrees with the horizontal line; the other is, that it is certain
that such a head is never found in nature."

In the tenth chapter he treats of "the causes of the superiority of the pictures of the 16th
and 17th centuries over those of the past century." He looks upon Rome and the Antique as the
chief cause, and that artists go there before they have established principles of art. It is
not, he asserts, in difference of colours; for "Giorgione and Titian neither made this themselves,
nor brought them from afar, but bought then uniformly in the shops at Venice." He appears to
entertain no suspicion of loss or deterioration of vehicle; on the contrary, thinks some artists
have been very successful in copies, here rather contradicting his former remarks upon the
difference between old copies and new; but, above all, he attributes this décadence of art
to the neglect of colour. That, however, is evidently only one part of the art. We are almost
induced to smile either at his flattery or his simplicity in naming certain exceptions of modern
times, whose names will be little known to, and those known not much in the admiration of,
the English collector, "all of whom have carried their art to a very high degree of perfection."
In his chapter on the "different manners of the masters," it is observable how little he has
to say of the Italian schools; almost all the subsequent remarks in the volume are confined
to the Flemish and Dutch. He greatly praises Dietrici for his manner, which to us is not pleasing,
and which we should term an imitating flippancy. He tells an anecdote of Titian, which, if
it rest upon any good authority, tends to prove that Titian's medium must have been one which
admitted the mixture of water with oil. Of Titian he says, that at the end of his life "he
used to daub his best works anew with red paint, because he thought the colour too feeble.
But happily his pupils had the address to prevent the fatal effects of his foolishness, by
making up his colours with water only, or with an oil that was not of a drying nature." With
colours ground, Titian could not have mixed his pencil in oil alone and unmixed--and he would
himself have immediately discovered the cheat, for it would have dried as distemper dead, and
crumbled away under his hand. He might have so painted, if oil and water had been combined,
and the vehicle rendered saponaceous, which it probably was. Many artists have been led, he
observes, to change the manner from good to bad. We have a remarkable instance in our Gainsborough,
whose latter scratchy, slovenly manner is most displeasing; nor had he at any time an imagination
to justify it, or rather to qualify it by the power of his compositions.

It is strange that he attributes slovenliness of manner to Rembrandt, "from Avarice." Documents
have recently been produced showing that Rembrandt's goods were seized for payment of no very
large debt. But is not M. de Burtin altogether mistaken in this manner of Rembrandt? Any of
his pictures that show this slovenliness, are, we should suspect, in those parts merely sketched
in--a method agreeable to his practice, which was to work upon and upon, glazing, and heaping
colour--a method which required, in the first instance, a loose and undefined sketchy manner.
Some few years ago there was a picture by him exhibited at the Institution, Pall-Mall--dead
game, wonderfully painted, and evidently unfinished; a boy in the background was, as we might
term it, daubed in in a very slovenly manner, and with a greenish colour, evidently for the
sake of that colour as an underground. Under the head "Historical" in this chapter, it is strange
to find but seven names, Rubens, Vandyke, Rembrandt, Lairesse, Poelemburg, Albert Durer, and
Hans Holbein. Even with some of these names it is too much honour to place Lairesse and Poelemburg.

In reference to the lower classes of subjects, we think justice is hardly done to Jan Steen,
of whom, considering him even as a colourist, more should have been said, than that he "is
distinguished by the drollery of his subjects, and by the most true and ingeniously simple
expression of the feelings of common life." All this might be said of many others; the characteristic
of Jan Steen is still wanting. So we think as to Philip Wouverman; no notice is taken of his
too great softness, the evident fault of his manner. Nor are we satisfied with the description
of Backhuysen. It should have been noticed in what he is distinguished from Vandervelde. His
defect in composition is so striking, as frequently to show a want of perspective in design,
and often he has no principal object in his picture. His vessels are either too large or too
small for the scene; and his execution was likewise too softened. He winds up this part of
the subject with a quotation from Diderot, that "he cannot be manner'd, either in design or
colouring, who imitates nature scrupulously, and that mannerism comes of the master of the
academy, of the school, and of the Antique," which we very much doubt, for the mannerism is
often in the mind, the peculiar, the autographic character of the painter, which he stamps
even upon nature. Were a Wynantz, and a Claude or Poussin, put down before the same scene,
how different would be their pictures, how different the vision in the eye of the three! A
Claude would see the distances, a Gaspar Poussin the middle distances and flowing lines, and
Wynantz the docks and thistles. The chapter "on the signatures of the Masters," will be found
useful to collectors. He says that where there is a false signature it is removed by spirits
of wine, and that is the proof that it is false. He does not draw the inference, that as spirits
of wine destroy the one vehicle and not the other, the old and original, they must differ.

Another chapter is devoted to "The famous balance composed by De Piles for estimating the different
degrees of merit in the principal historical painters." This famous balance is a piece of critical
coxcombry with which we never could have tolerable patience. It is an absurd assumption of
superiority in the critic over all the masters that ever were; as if he alone were able to
conceive perfection, to which no painter has ever been able to advance; that perfection on
which the critic, or rather De Piles, had his eye, is Number 20; that no Painter has approached
it nearer than nineteen. It commences with a falsehood in supposition, that the critic is above
the Painter, or Art, or the only one really cognisant of it. The fact being quite the reverse,
for we know nothing that we have not been absolutely taught by genius. It is genius that precedes;
it is the maker, the worker, the inventor, who alone sees the step beyond. Did the critic see
this step he would cease to be the critic, and become the maker. He would become the genius.
In the arts, whether of poetry, painting, or music, we know nothing but what practical genius
tells us, shows us, teaches us; seldom is it, indeed, that the scholar critic comprehends fully
the lessons taught; but to pretend to go before the masters, and to set up a post with his
Number 20 marked upon it, and to bid his master reach it if he can, is the puerile play of
an infantine intellect, or very conceited mind! And so we give M. De Piles, and all his followers,
a slap in the face, and bid them go packing with Number 20. We will not condescend to pull
to pieces this fantastic scheme, which is in its distinctions, and weighings and calculations,
appreciations and depreciations, as false as it must necessarily be, arising from a mind capable
of laying down any such scheme at all. The chapter on prices, and the lists contained, will
be consulted with advantage by collectors. It contains valuable documents, showing the fluctuations
of public taste. There is much useful information upon cleaning pictures, and on varnishes.
Something has been recently said to bring into practice again the varnishing with white of
egg. M. de Burtin is decidedly against the practice. "As to the varnishes of water, isinglass,
and white of egg, every prudent amateur will attack them the instant that he discovers such
dangerous enemies, and will use every effort to free his pictures from them." We think him
utterly mistaken in the following passage. "In operating upon a work of art, whether to clean
it or to raise the varnish, it ought to be remembered, that the colours grow hard only by the
lapse of time." If so, surely a hundred years would be time enough to harden--but the chemical
tests which touch the hard paint, if it be hard, of a century old, will not be applicable to
those of still older date, and of better time. He had shown this unconsciously in what he had
said of spirits of wine. We have taken some pains in the pages of Maga to disabuse the public
with regard to the imaginary benefit of painting in varnish--a most pernicious practice; and
that it is so, we have elsewhere given both proof and authorities. We are glad to find our
author on our side. "Besides, no one at the present day (1808) is ignorant of their absurd
method of painting in varnish, which corrupts the colours, and prevents them ever attaining
the requisite hardness." There is much useful matter upon varnishing, which it will be well
that collectors and keepers of public galleries should read with attention. We do not say follow,
but read; for it is indeed a very serious matter to recommend a varnish, seeing how many pictures
are totally ruined by bad applications. We have been told that drying oil mixed with mastic
varnish has been, though not very recently, used in our National Gallery. We hope it is a mistake,
and that there has been no such practice. The effect must be to make them dull and horny, and
to destroy all brilliancy in time. We say no more upon that subject, believing that our National
Gallery is intrusted to good hands, and that whatever is done, will be done with judgment,
and not without much reflection. A new varnish has appeared, "Bentley's." We believe it is
copal, but rendered removable as mastic. It is certainly very brilliant, not, or but slightly,
subject to chill, and is more permanent, as well as almost colourless. De Burtin not only denounces
the use of oil in varnishes, but speaks of a more disgusting practice, common in Italy, of
rubbing pictures "with fat, oil, or lard, or other animal grease.... So destructive a practice
comes in process of time to rot the picture, so that it will not hold together." We should
scarcely have thought it worth while to notice this, had we not seen pictures so treated in
this country. Behold a specimen of folly and hazardous experiment:--"At that time, I frequented
the Dresden gallery every morning, and got from M. Riedal all the details of his practice.
He informed me that, amongst others, the chief works of Correggio, Raffaelle, Titian, and Procaccini,
after having undergone his preparatory operations, had got a coat of his 'oil of flowers,'
which he would repeat, until every part became 'perfectly bright.' And on my remarking, that
in the admirable 'Venus' of Titian, the carnations alone were bright, and all the rest flat,
he told me with perfect coolness, that 'having only as yet given it three coats of his oil,
that it was not astonishing, but that he would put it all in unison by multiplying the coats.'"
The man should have been suffocated in his "oil of flowers," preserved in them, and hung up
in the gallery in terrorem. Could ghosts walk and punish, we would not have been in his skin,
though perfumed with his preservative oil of flowers, under the visitations of the ghosts of
Correggio, Raffaelle, Titian, and Procaccini. "Such," adds M. de Burtin, "was his threat at
the very moment that I felt overpowered with chagrin, to see the superb carnations of Titian
acquiring a yellowish, sad, and monotonous tone, through the coats that he had already given
to it."

We have noticed, at considerable length, this work, and have been led on by the interest of
the subject. The perusal of this translation will repay the connoisseur, and we think the artist.
The former, in this country, will be surprised to find names of artists, whose works will not
be found in our collections, at least with their titles. The artist will find some useful information,
and will always find his flame of enthusiasm fed by reading works upon the subject of art,
though they should be very inferior to the present useful volume. We recommend it as not unamusing
to all who wish to think upon art, and to acquire the now almost necessary accomplishment of
a taste for pictures.

MANNER AND MATTER.

A TALE.

CHAPTER I.

Along the dusty highway, and underneath a July sun, a man about fifty, tending somewhat to
the corpulent, and dressed in heavy parsonic black, might have been seen treading slowly--treading
with all that quiet caution which one uses who, conscious of fat, trusts his person to the
influence of a summer sky. Mr Simpson, such was the name of this worthy pedestrian, passed
under the denomination of a mathematical tutor, though it was now some time since he had been
known to have any pupil. He was now bent from the village of ------ to the country-seat of
Sir John Steventon, which lay in its neighbourhood. He had received the unusual honour of an
invitation to dinner at the great man's house, and it was evidently necessary that he should
present himself, both his visage and his toilet, in a state of as much composure as possible.
The dust upon his very shining boot, this a touch from his pocket-handkerchief, before entering
the house, could remove, and so far all traces of the road would be obliterated; but should
this wicked perspiration once fairly break its bounds, he well knew that nothing but the lapse
of time, and the fall of night, would recover him from this palpable disorder. Therefore it
was that he walked with wonderful placidity, making no one movement of body or mind that was
not absolutely necessary to the task of progression, and holding himself up, so to speak, within
his habiliments as if he and they, though unavoidably companions on the same journey, were
by no means intimate or willing associates. There was a narrow strip of shade from the hedge
that ran beside the road, and although the shadow still left the nobler half of his person
exposed to the rays of the sun, he kept carefully within such shelter as it afforded. If he
encountered any one, he stood still and examined the foliage of the hedge. To dispute the path
in any other manner, with the merest urchin he might meet, was out of the question. It would
have caused excitement. Moreover he was a meek man, and in all doubtful points yielded to the
claim of others. Grocery-boys and barrow-women always had the wall of him. Our traveller proceeded
so tranquilly, that a sparrow boldly hopped down upon the ground before him; he was so resolved
to enter into conflict with no living creature, that he paused till it had hopped off again.

Mr Simpson's toilet, though it had been that day a subject of great anxiety with him, presented,
we fear, to the eyes of the world nothing remarkable. A careless observer, if questioned on
the apparition he had met with, would have replied very briefly, that it was the figure of
an old pedant dressed in a suit of rusty black. Suit of rusty black! And so he would dismiss
the aggregate of all that was choice, reserved, and precious in the wardrobe of Mr Simpson.
Rusty black, indeed! Why, that dress coat, which had been set apart for years for high and
solemn occasions, had contracted a fresh dignity and importance from every solemnity with which
it had been associated. And those respectable nether-garments, had they not always been dismissed
from service the moment he re-entered his own dusty apartment? Had they not been religiously
preserved from all abrasion of the surface, whether from cane-bottomed chair, or that under
portion of the library table which, to students who cross their legs, is found to be so peculiarly
pernicious to the nap of cloth? What could have made them worse for wear? Would a thoughtless
world confound the influence of the all-embracing atmosphere, with the wear and tear proper
to cloth habiliments? And then his linen--would a careless public refuse to take notice that
not a single button was missing from the shirt, which, in general, had but one solitary button
remaining--just one at the neck, probably fastened by his own hand? Above all, was it not noticeable
that he was not to-day under the necessity of hiding one hand behind him under the lappets
of his coat, and slipping the other down his half-open umbrella, to conceal the dilapidated
gloves, but could display both hands with perfect candour to public scrutiny? Were all these
singular merits to pass unacknowledged, to be seen by no one, or seen only by himself?

It was an excellent wish of Burns'--

    "Oh, would some power the giftie gie us,
    To see ourselves as others see us!"

But it would be a still more convenient thing if some power would give the rest of the world
the faculty of seeing us as we see ourselves. It would produce a most comfortable state of
public opinion; and on no subject would it operate more favourably than on that of dress. Could
we spread over beholders the same happy delusion that rests on ourselves, what a magical change
would take place in the external appearance of society! Mr Simpson is not the only person who
might complain that the world will not regard his several articles of attire from the same
point of view as himself. We know a very charming lady, who, when she examines her kid gloves,
doubles her little fist, and then pronounces--they will do--forgetful that she is not in the
habit of doubling her pretty fist in the face of every one that she speaks to--and that, therefore,
others will not take exactly the same point of view as herself.

Notwithstanding the heat of the sun, our mathematician contrived to deliver himself in a tolerable
state of preservation at the mansion of Sir John Steventon. We pass over the ceremony of dinner,
and draw up the curtain just at that time when the ladies and gentlemen have re-assembled in
the drawing-room.

We look round the well-dressed circle, and it is some time before we can discover our worthy
friend. At length, after a minute research, we find him standing alone in the remotest corner
of the room. He is apparently engaged in examining the bust of the proprietor of the mansion,
which stands there upon its marble pedestal. He has almost turned his back upon the company.
Any one, from his attitude, might take him for a connoisseur, perhaps an artist, absorbed in
his critical survey. But so far is he from being at the present moment drawn away by his admiration
of the fine arts, that we question whether he even sees the bust that is standing upright,
face to face, before him. He has got into that corner, and knows not how to move from it. He
knows not where else to put himself, or what else to be looking at. The scene in which he finds
himself has, from the solitude of his later years, become strange and embarrassing. The longer
he stands there, the more impossible does it seem for him to get away, or even to turn round
and face the company. The position of the valorous Schmelzle, who having read upon a board
the notice "that spring guns were set upon the premises," trembled as much to retreat as to
advance, to move a foot backwards or forwards, or in any direction, but stood gazing at the
formidable announcement, was scarcely more painful than that of Simpson. Although probably
not a single person in the room was taking the least notice of his movements, he felt that
every eye was upon him. The colour was mounting in his cheek. Every moment his situation was
becoming more intolerable. We are afraid that he would soon have committed something very absurd--have
broken from his moorings with a shout--or dispelled the sort of nightmare that was stifling
him by some violent gesture, perhaps by dealing a blow at that bust which stood there so placidly
before him, just as the poor youth did at the British Museum, who threw a stone at the Portland
vase, to prove that he also was a man, and had volition, and was not to be looked into stone
by the Gorgon of society. Fortunately, however, Sir John Steventon himself came to the rescue.

"Well, Mr Simpson," said the baronet pointing to the bust, "do you trace a resemblance?"

Mr Simpson was so overjoyed to have at length some one at hand to whom he might speak, or seem
to be speaking, and so connect himself with the society around him, that to the simple question
he made not one only, but several answers, and very dissimilar ones too. In the same breath
he found it a likeness, yet not very like, and ended with asking for whom it was intended.

Sir John Steventon smiled, and after one or two indifferent observations, led Mr Simpson apart
into a little study or sanctum of his own, which communicated with the drawing-room. It will
be naturally concluded that there existed some peculiar reason for the invitation passed on
our humble mathematician, who was not altogether the person, under ordinary circumstances,
to find himself a guest at rich men's tables. The following conversation will explain this
departure from the usual course of things, and the respectable conventions of society.

"You were some years," said Sir John, "a tutor in the family of the late Mr Scott?"

"I was," responded Mr Simpson, "and prepared his son for Cambridge. Had the young man lived"----

"He would, I am sure," politely interrupted Sir John, "have borne testimony to the value of
your instruction. I am, as you may be aware, the executor of Mr Scott. That gentleman was so
well satisfied with the exertions you made, and the interest you took in his son, that, on
your quitting him, he presented you, I believe, with an annuity of fifty pounds, to be enjoyed
during your life. This is, if I may be allowed to say so, the chief source of your income."

"The only one," answered Mr Simpson. "For although I willingly proclaim myself tutor of mathematics,
because a title, no matter what, is a protection from the idle curiosity of neighbours; yet,
if I may venture to say so, my life is, indeed, devoted to science for the love of science
itself, and with the hope of enrolling my name, although the very last and humblest, amongst
those who have perfected our knowledge of the mathematics, and extended their application.
I have already conceived, and in part executed a work."

Mr Simpson was launching on the full tide of his favourite subject. He thought, as good simple
creatures always do, that he could not make a better return for the hospitalities of the rich
man, than by pouring out his whole heart before him. Sad mistake which these simple people
fall into! The rich man cares nothing for their heart, and is very susceptible to ennui.

"Very good," interrupted Sir John, "very good; but with regard to this annuity. I have not
yet looked over the papers relating to it, and I hope, for your sake, I shall find it properly
secured."

"I have a deed formally drawn up."

"True, true; and I hope all will be found straightforward in this, and in other affairs of
the testator, and that nothing will compel me to call in the assistance or sanction of the
Court of Chancery in administering the estate. In that case, although your claim might be ultimately
substantiated, yet the payment of your annuity might, for some years, be suspended."

"I pray God not!" exclaimed our man of science with some trepidation. "I have lived so much
alone, so entirely amongst my figures and diagrams, that I have not a friend in the world of
whom I could borrow sixpence."

"Well, I trust," resumed Sir John, after a short pause, "that there will be no occasion for
applying to a Court of Chancery. There ought to be none. There is but one child, Mrs Vincent,
whom you have seen this evening in the drawing-room. The great essential is to keep prying
and meddlesome attorneys from thrusting themselves into the business. You acted as confidential
secretary as well as tutor, while you were domiciled with Mr Scott."

"I did."

"There was a pecuniary transaction between myself and Mr Scott, to which I think you were privy."

"A loan of ten thousand pounds, for which you gave your bond."

"Exactly. I see you are informed of that circumstance. You are not, perhaps, equally well informed
that that bond was cancelled; that the debt, in short, was paid. This happened after you had
left Mr Scott. But although, as I tell you, this debt no longer exists, yet it might create
a great embarrassment to me, and to every person interested in the estate of the testator,
if it were known that such a debt ever had existed. Mrs Vincent has just returned from India,
expecting a very considerable fortune from her late father. To her, in general terms, the whole
property is left. She will be disappointed. There is much less than she anticipates. However,
not to make a long story of this matter, all I have to request of you is this, if any one should
question you as to the property of your late patron, and especially as to this transaction,
be you silent--know nothing. You have ever been a man of books, buried in abstractions, the
answer will appear quite natural. This will save you, be assured, from much vexation, disquietude,
and grievous interruption to your studies, and I shall rest your debtor for your considerate
behaviour. A contrary course will create embarrassment to all parties, and put in jeopardy
your own annuity, on which, as you say, you depend for subsistence, and the carrying out of
your scientific projects."

As Mr Simpson sat silent during this communication, Sir John continued some time longer in
the same strain. He made no doubt that the simple mathematician before him was quite under
his influence--was completely in his power. That simple person, however, who lived in obscurity,
almost in penury--to society an object of its wisely directed ridicule--was a man of honour.
Little had he to do with the world; even its good opinion was scarcely of any importance to
him. What to him was the fastidiousness of virtue--to him whom poverty excluded from the refined
portion of society, and knowledge and education from the vulgar and illiterate? What could
he profit by it? Nothing, absolutely nothing. And yet there was no power on earth could have
made this man false to his honour. Partly, perhaps, from his very estrangement from the business
of the world, his sense of virtue had retained its fresh and youthful susceptibility. As is
the case with all such men, he was slow to attribute villany to others. This it was had kept
him silent; he waited to be quite convinced that he understood Sir John. When the truth stood
plainly revealed, when it became evident to him that this debt of ten thousand pounds was not
paid, and that he was brought there to be bribed or intimidated into a guilty secrecy, his
whole soul fired up with indignation.

He had listened, as we say, in silence. When satisfied that he perfectly comprehended Sir John,
he rose from his seat, and briefly intimating that he should not leave him long in doubt as
to the manner in which he should act, turned, and abruptly left the apartment. Sir John had
no time to arrest him, and could only follow, and be a witness to his movements. He re-entered
the drawing-room. Where were now all the terrors of that scene? Where the awe which its easy
elegant ceremonial inspired? Gone, utterly gone. He had now a duty to fulfil. You would have
said it was another man. Had he been the proprietor of the mansion, he could not have entered
with a more assured and unembarrassed air. There was a perfect freedom and dignity in his demeanour
as he stepped across the room. In the centre of the room, throned, as it were, upon the sofa,
sat two ladies, remarkable above all the others, for the finished elegance of their manner,
and the splendour of their toilet. The one was Lady Steventon, the other Mrs Vincent. Some
minutes ago, not for all the world would he have stood alone upon that piece of carpet in front
of this sofa. No courtier, assured of the most smiling reception, could have drawn his chair
with more ease to the vacant spot beside Mrs Vincent, than did now Mr Simpson. He immediately
entered into conversation on the subject that at the moment engrossed all his thoughts; he
reminded her of the confidential intimacy which had subsisted between himself and her late
father; proffered his assistance to aid her in the arrangement of her affairs; and, in particular,
gave a succinct account of the transaction which Sir John had manifested so great anxiety to
conceal.

The manner in which all this was said, so entirely took Sir John Steventon by surprise, that
he was unable to interfere with a single word. Mrs Vincent, to whom the information was evidently
quite new, concealed the embarrassment she felt in some general expressions of thanks to Mr
Simpson. He, when he had fulfilled his object, rose, and making a profound bow to his host
and hostess, quitted the house. His demeanour was such, that his host involuntarily returned
his salutation with one of marked deference and respect.

CHAPTER II.

A year had rolled round, and Mrs Vincent was established in all her rights. Sir John Steventon
had been disappointed in the fraudulent scheme he had devised; not disappointed, however, as
he deemed, in the revenge he had taken on the man who had frustrated it. Payment of Mr Simpson's
annuity was resisted, and the poor mathematician was in great straits for those necessaries
of life, which, necessary as they may be, are often with a great portion of the human family
very fortuitous. Ask not on what legal pretexts Sir John had been successful in inflicting
this revenge. Such pretexts are "thick as blackberries." Facilis est descensus--No rich suitor
ever sought long for admission into the Court of Chancery, however difficult even he may have
found the escape from it. Neither, do we apprehend, is there any remedy for this abuse of law,
in the legal reforms usually contemplated by our legislators. The only effective remedy, if
we may be here permitted to give a remark, would be this--that the state administer civil justice
at its own expense to rich and poor alike--that, as it protects each man's life and limb, so
it should protect each man's property, which is the means of life, which is often as essential
to him as the limbs by which he moves. This is the only mode of realizing that "equal justice"
which at present is the vain boast of every system of jurisprudence, when the suitor has to
pay for protection to his property.

Poor Simpson, who had lived for some years on his scanty annuity, and had lived content, for
his wants were few, and his mind utterly absorbed in his science, now found himself without
the simplest means of subsistence. He had escaped, as he thought, for ever, from the necessity
of applying his science to satisfy mere animal wants; he began to think he should be very fortunate
if all his science would procure for him the commonest "board and lodging!" When a man has
ceased to cultivate his relationship with society, and wishes, after a time, to return to them,
he will find that a blank wall has been built up between him and the world. There is not even
a door to knock at, let alone the chance of its opening when he knocks. Our mathematician knew
not where to look for a pupil, nor for a friend who would recommend him. Some unavailing attempts
he made to obtain his rights through litigation; but he soon found, that to the loss of his
money he was adding only the loss of all tranquillity of mind. The lawyer he employed neglected
(and very naturally) a suit which would have required on his part large advances, the repayment
of which was very precarious.

In this predicament he bethought himself of making an appeal to Mrs Vincent, the lady whom
he had benefited by his simple and straightforward honesty; not that he held her under any
peculiar obligation to him; what he had done was by no means to oblige her; it was strictly
a self-obligation; he could not have acted otherwise, let the consequences have been what they
might. But he reasoned with himself, that the annuity of which he was deprived would fall into
the general residue of the estate, and be in fact paid to her; and as he could not believe
that she would wish to profit by the villany of Sir John, he thought there could be nothing
derogatory to him, nor exacting upon her, if he proposed to relinquish entirely his legal claim
upon the estate, and receive the annuity from her hands. She must surely be desirous, he thought,
to fulfil the solemn engagements of her deceased parent. Full of these cogitations, he betook
himself to London, where Mrs Vincent had established herself.

The reader must imagine himself introduced into an elegantly furnished drawing-room, in one
of the most fashionable quarters of the metropolis. Had we any talent for the description of
the miracles of upholstery, it would be a sin to pass over so superb and tasteful a scene without
a word. But the little descriptive power we possess must be reserved for the lady who was sitting
in the midst of one of those domestic miniature palaces, of which the "interiors" of London
could present so great a number. Mrs Vincent had lately become a widow, at the opening of our
narrative, and was therefore still dressed in black. But though in black, or rather perhaps
on that very account, her attire was peculiarly costly. In black only can magnificence of apparel
be perfectly allied with purity of taste. And certainly nothing could harmonize better than
the rich satin dress, and the superb scarf of lace which fell over it with such a gorgeous
levity. A pope in his highest day of festival might have coveted that lace. Between the black
satin and the light folds of the scarf, relieved by the one, and tempered, and sometimes half
hidden by the other, played a diamond cross, which might have been the ransom of a Great Mogul.
The features of Mrs Vincent were remarkably delicate, and her pale beauty was of that order
which especially interests the imagination. She wore her hair plainly parted upon either side,
revealing the charming contour of her well-shaped head. A patriarch would have gloried in his
age if it gave him the privilege to take that dear head between his hands, and imprint his
holy kiss upon the forehead. Her little girl, her sole companion and chief treasure in the
world, stood prattling before her; and the beauty of the young mother was tenfold increased
by the utter forgetfulness of herself, which she manifested as she bent over her child, absorbed
in the beauty of that dear little image which she was never weary of caressing.

Mrs Vincent was even more fascinating in manner than in appearance. She was one of those charming
little personages whom every one idolizes, whom men and women alike consent to pet. It was
impossible to be in the same room with her half an hour without being perfectly ready to do
every thing, reasonable or unreasonable, that she could request of you. The charm of her conversation,
or rather of her society, was irresistible; there was a sweet subdued gaiety in her speech,
accent, and gestures which made you happy, you knew not why; and though by no means a wit,
nor laying the least claim to be a clever person, there was a sprightly music in her tones,
and a spontaneous vivacity in her language, which left a far more delightful impression than
the most decided wit.

Where shall we find a more beautiful picture than that of a young mother, and that mother a
widow, bending over the glossy tresses of her child? Never is woman so attractive, so subduing;
never does she so tenderly claim our protection; never is she so completely protected, so unassailable,
so predominant. Poor Simpson felt his heart penetrated with the holiest love and veneration
when he entered the room.

Nothing could exceed the graceful and benevolent manner in which Mrs Vincent received him.
He had been the tried friend of her father, the beloved tutor of her brother; he had lately
been of signal service to herself. Mr Simpson was overpowered with his reception. The object
of his visit seemed already accomplished. Hardly did it appear necessary to proceed with any
verbal statement; surely she knew his position, and this was enough. She had been restored
to her rights; she would not, she could not, allow him to suffer by an act which led to that
restoration; still less would she consent to reap herself the benefit of an injustice perpetrated
upon him.

Some explanation, however, of the object of his visit he found it necessary to make. When he
had concluded the brief statement which he thought sufficient, the lady answered in the softest
voice in the world--that she was sorry she could not enter upon that subject, as she had promised
Sir John Steventon not to interfere between him and Mr Simpson--that Sir John had exacted this
promise, and she had given it, as necessary to facilitate the arrangement of her affairs. What
could she do, an unprotected woman, with the interests of her child depending upon her? She
was bound, therefore, she regretted to say, not to intermeddle in the business. But then Mr
Simpson could proceed with his legal remedies. She did not presume to pass an opinion upon
the justice of his claim, or to advise him not to prosecute it.

In brief, she had given up the brave and honourable man, who had befriended her at the peril
of his fortune, to the revenge of the wealthy, unscrupulous baronet, who had intended to defraud
her. It was so agreeable to be on amicable terms with her father's executor.

Our mathematician doubted his ears. Yet so it was. And it was all repeated to him in the blandest
manner in the world. She seemed to think that a duty to any one else but her child was out
of the question. We believe that many interesting and beautiful mothers have the same idea.

Mr Simpson gasped for breath. Some quite general remark was the only one that rose to his lip.
"You are angels--to look upon," he half-murmured to himself.

It was not in his disposition to play the petitioner, and still less to give vent to feelings
of indignation, which would be thought to have their origin only in his own personal injuries.
It was still surprise that was predominant in him, as at length he exclaimed--"But surely,
madam, you do not understand this matter. This annuity was honestly won by long services rendered
to your father, and to his son. Instead of receiving other payments, I had preferred to be
finally remunerated in this form--it was my desire to obtain what in my humble ideas was an
independence, that I might devote my life to science. Well, this annuity, it is my all--it
stands between me and absolute penury--it is the plank on which I sail over the waters of life.
I have, too, an object for my existence, which this alone renders possible. I have studies
to pursue, discoveries to make. This sum of money is more than my life, it is my license to
study and to think."

"Oh, but, Mr Simpson," interrupted the lady with a smile, "I understand nothing of mathematics."

Mr Simpson checked himself. No, she did not understand him. What was his love of science or
his hope of fame to her? What to her was any one of the pains and pleasures that constituted
his existence?

"Besides," added the lady, "you are a bachelor, Mr Simpson. You have no children. It can matter
little"----

A grim smile played upon the features of the mathematician. He was probably about to prove
to her, that as children are destined to become men, the interests of a man may not be an unworthy
subject of anxiety. However important a person a child may be, a man is something more. But
at this moment a servant entered, and announced Sir John Steventon!

On perceiving Mr Simpson, that gentleman was about to retreat, and with a look of something
like distrust at Mrs Vincent, he said that he would call again. "Nay, come in!" exclaimed the
mathematician with a clear voice. "Come in! The lady has not broken her word, nor by me shall
she be petitioned to do so. It is I who will quit this place. You have succeeded, Sir John,
in your revenge--you have succeeded, and yet perhaps it is an imperfect success. You shall
not rack the heart, though you should starve the body. You think, perhaps, I shall pursue you
with objurgation or entreaty. You are mistaken. I leave you to the enjoyment of your triumph,
and to the peace which a blunted conscience will, I know, bestow upon you."

Sir John muttered, in reply, that he could not debate matters of business, but must refer him
to his solicitor.

"Neither personally," continued Mr Simpson, "nor by your solicitor, will you hear more of me.
I shall forget you, Sir John. Whatever sufferings you may inflict, you shall not fill my heart
with bitterness. Your memory shall not call forth a single curse from me. Approach. Be friendly
to this lady. Be mutually courteous, bland, and affable--what other virtues do you know?"

He strode out of the room. His parting word was no idle boast. Sir John heard of him and of
his just claims no more; and the brave-hearted man swept the memory of the villain from his
soul. He would not have it there.

The baronet soothed his conscience, if it ever gave him any uneasiness, by the supposition
that the aged mathematician had found some pupils--that probably he eked out as comfortable
a subsistence as before, and had only exchanged the dreamy pursuit of scientific fame, for
the more practical labours of tuition. But no such fortune attended Mr Simpson. He had lived
too long out of the world to find either friends or pupils, and the more manifest his poverty,
the more hopeless became his applications. Meanwhile, utter destitution stood face to face
before him. Did he spend his last coin in the purchase of the mortal dose? Did he leap at night
from any of the bridges of the metropolis? He was built of stouter stuff. He collected together
his manuscripts, a book or two, which had happily for him been unsaleable, his ink-bottle and
an iron pen, and marched straight--to the parish workhouse. There was no refusing his claim
here. Poverty and famine were legible in every garment, and on every feature. In that asylum
he ended his days, unknown, unsought for.

One of his companions, dressed like himself, in the workhouse costume, who had gathered that
he was the sufferer by some act of injustice of a rich oppressor, thought, on one occasion,
to console him by the reflection, that his wrongdoer would certainly suffer for it in the next
world--in his own energetic language, that he would certainly be d----d.

"Not on my account--not, I hope, on my account," said the mathematician, with the greatest
simplicity in the world. "No revenge either here or hereafter. But if civil government deserved
the name, it would have given me justice now. Had I been robbed of sixpence on the highway,
there would have been hue and cry--the officers of government would not have rested till they
had found and punished the culprit. I am robbed of all; and, because I am poor and unfriended--circumstances
which make the loss irremediable--the law puts forth no hand to help me. Men will prate about
the expense--the burden on the national revenue--as if justice to all were not the very first
object of government--as if--but truce to this. My good friend, you see these fragments of
snuff that I have collected--could you get them exchanged for me for a little ink?"

MARSTON; OR, THE MEMOIRS OF A STATESMAN.

                Part XX.

As my mission was but temporary, and might be attended with personal hazard, I had left Clotilde
in England, much to her regret, and travelled with as small a retinue as possible; and in general
by unfrequented ways, to avoid the French patroles which were already spread through the neighbourhood
of the high-roads. But, at Burgos, the Spanish commandant, on the delivery of my passport,
insisted so strongly on the necessity for an escort, placing the wish on a feeling of his personal
responsibility, in case of my falling into the enemy's hands, that to save the señor's conscience,
or his commission, I consented to take a few troopers, with one of his aides-de-camp, to see
me in safety through the Sierra Morena.

The aide-de-camp was a character; a little meagre being, who, after a long life of idleness
and half-pay, was suddenly called into service; and now figured in a staff-coat and feather.
His first commission had been in the luckless expedition of Count O'Reilly against the Moors;
and it had probably served him as a topic, from that time to the moment when he pledged his
renown for my safe delivery into the hands of the junta of Castile. He had three leading ideas,
which formed the elements of his body and soul,--his exploits in the Moorish campaign; his
contempt for the monks; and his value for the talents, courage, and fame of Don Ignacio Trueno
Relampago, the illustrious appellative of the little aide-de-camp himself. He talked without
mercy as we rode along; and gave his opinions with all the easy conviction of an "officer on
the staff," and all the freedom of the wilderness. The expedition to Africa had failed solely
for want of adopting "the tactics which he would have advised;" and his public services in
securing the retreat would have done honour to the Cid, or to Alexander the Great, had not
"military jealousy refused to transmit them to the national ear." His opinion of Spanish politics
was, that they owed their occasional mistakes solely to the culpable negligence of the war-minister
"in overlooking the gallant subalterns of the national army." Spain he regarded as the natural
sovereign of Europe; and, of course, of all mankind--its falling occasionally into the background
being satisfactorily accounted for by the French descent of her existing dynasty, by the visible
deterioration in the royal manufacture of cigars, and, more than either, "by the tardiness
of military promotion." This last grievance was the sting. "If justice had been done," exclaimed
the new-feathered warrior, rising in his stirrups, and waving his hand, as if he was in the
act of cleaving down a Moor, "I should long since have been a general. If I had been a general,
the armies of Spain would long since have been on a very different footing. Men of merit would
have been placed in their proper positions; the troops would have emulated the exploits of
their forefathers in the age of Ferdinand and Isabella; and, instead of receiving a king from
France, we should have given her one; while, instead of seeing a French emperor carrying off
our princes, as the hawk carries off pigeons, or as a gipsy picks your pocket under pretence
of telling your fortune, we should have been garrisoning Paris with our battalions, and sending
a viceroy to the Tuileries."

I laughed; but my ill-timed mirth had nearly cost me an "affair of honour" with the little
regenerator. His hand was instantly on the hilt of his sword, and every wrinkle on his brown
visage was swelling with wrath; when my better genius prevailed, He probably recollected that
he was sent as my protector, and that the office would not have been fulfilled according to
his instructions, by running me through the midriff. But, with all his pomposity, he had the
national good-nature; and when we sat down to our chicken and bottle of Tinto in one of those
delicious valleys, he was full of remorse for his burst of patriotic temper.

The day had been a continued blaze of sunshine, the road a burning sand, and the contrast of
the spot where we made our halt was tempting. The scene was rich and riant, the evening lovely,
and the wine good. I could have reposed there for a month, or a year, or for ever. It would
have been enough to make a man turn hermit; and I instinctively gazed round, to look for the
convent which "must lie" in so luxurious a site. My companion informed me that I was perfectly
right in my conjecture, that spot having been the position of one of the richest brotherhoods
of Spain. But its opulence had been unluckily displayed in rather too ostentatious a style
in the eyes of a French brigade; who, in consequence, packed up the plate in their baggage,
and, in the course of a tumult which followed with the peasantry, burned the building to the
ground.

Yet, this misfortune was the source of but slight condolence on the part of my friend. He was
perfectly of the new school. "They were Theatines," said he--"as bad as the Jesuits in every
thing but hypocrisy--powerful, insolent, bold-faced knaves; and after their robbing me of the
inheritance of my old, rich uncle, which one of those crafty padres contrived to make the old
devotee give them on his death-bed, I had dry eyes for their ill luck. But, I suppose," added
he, "you know their creed?" I acknowledged my ignorance. "Well, you shall hear it. It is incomparably
true; though, whether written for them by Moratin or Calderon, I leave to the antiquarians."
He then chanted it in the style of the monkish service, and with gesticulations, groans, and
upturning of eyes, which strongly gave me the idea that he had employed his leisure, if not
relieved his sense of the war-minister's neglect, by exerting his talents as the "Gracioso"
of some strolling company. The troopers gathered round us, with that odd mixture of familiarity
and respect which belongs to all the lower ranks of Spain; and the performer evidently acquired
new spirits from the laughter of his audience, as he dashingly sang his burlesque:--

                Cancion.

    Los mandamientos de los Teatinos,[6].
    Mas humanos son que divinos.

                   Coro.--Tra lara, tra lara.

    Primo--Adquirir mucho dinero. Tra lara, &c.
    Segundo--Sujetar todo il mondo. Tra lara, &c.
    Tercero--Buen capon, buen carnero. Tra lara, &c.
    Quarto--Comprar barato, y vender caro. Tra lara, &c.
    Quinto--Con el blanco aguar el tinto. Tra lara, &c.
    Sexto--Tener siempre el lomo en siesto. Tra lara, &c.
    Septimo--Guardase bien del sereno. Tra lara, &c.
    Octavo--Obrar la suya, y lo ageno. Tra lara, &c.
    Nono--Hazar del penitente esclavo. Tra lara, &c.
    Decimo--Mesclarse en cosas d'estado. Tra lara, &c.

    Coro.--Estes diez mandamientos se encierran en dos--
              Todo para mi, y nada para vos.
                                Tra lara, tra lara, &c.

The whole performance was received with an applause which awoke the little aide-de-camp's genius
to such an extent, that he volunteered to sing some stanzas of his own, immeasurably more poignant.
He was in the act of filling a bumper to the "downfall of all monkery on the face of the earth,"
when the report of a musket was heard, and the bottle was shivered in his hand. The honour
of Don Ignacio Trueno Relampago was never in greater danger, for he instantly turned much whiter
than his own pocket-handkerchief: but the Spaniard is a brave fellow, after all; and seeing
that I drew out my pistols, he drew his sword, ordered his troopers to mount, and prepared
for battle. But, who can fight against fortune? Our horses, which had been picketed at a few
yards' distance in the depth of the shade, were gone. A French battalion of tirailleurs, accidentally
coming on our route, had surrounded the grove, and carried off the horses unperceived, while
our gallant troopers were chorusing the songster. The sentinel left in charge of them had,
of course, given way to the allurements of "sweet nature's kind restorer, balmy sleep," and
awoke only to find himself in French hands. Don Ignacio would have fought a legion of fiends;
but seven hundred and fifty sharpshooters were a much more unmanageable affair; and on our
holding a council of war, (which never fights,) and with a whole circle of bayonets glittering
at our breasts, I advised a surrender without loss of time. The troopers were already disarmed,
and the Don, appealing to me as evidence that he had done all that could be required by the
most punctilious valour, surrendered his sword with the grace of a hero of romance. The Frenchmen
enjoyed the entire scene prodigiously, laughed a great deal, drank our healths in our own bottles,
and finished by a general request that the Don would indulge them with an encore of the chant
which had so tickled their ears during their advance in the wood. The Don complied, malgrè,
bongrè; and at the conclusion of this feat, the French colonel, resolved not to be outdone
in any thing, called on one of his subalterns for a song. The subaltern hopelessly searched
his memory for its lyrical stores; but after half a dozen snatches of "chansons," and breaking
down in them all, he volunteered, in despair, what he pronounced, "the most popular love-song
in all Italy." Probably not a syllable of it was understood by any one present but myself;
yet this did not prevent its being applauded to the skies, and pronounced one of the most brilliant
specimens of Italian sensibility. It was in Latin, and a fierce attack on the Jesuits, which
the young officer, a palpable philosophe, had brought with him from the symposia of the "Ecole
Polytechnique:"--

    Mortem norunt animare[7]
    Et tumultus suscitare,
    Inter reges, et sedare.

    Tanquam sancti adorantur,
    Tanquam reges dominantur,
    Tanquam fures deprædantur.

    Dominantur temporale,
    Dominantur spirituale,
    Dominantur omnia male.

    Hos igitur Jesuitas,
    Heluones, hypocritas,
    Fuge, si cælestia quæras.

    Vita namque Christiana
    Abhorret ab hac doctrinâ,
    Tanquam fictâ et insanâ.

The colonel of the tirailleurs was a complete specimen of the revolutionary soldier. He was
a dashing figure, with a bronzed face; at least so much of it as I could discover through the
most inordinate pair of mustaches ever worn by a warrior. He was ignorant of every thing on
earth but his profession, and laughed at the waste of time in poring over books; his travelling-library
consisting of but two--the imperial army-list, and the muster-roll of his regiment. His family
recollections went no higher than his father, a cobbler in Languedoc. But he was a capital
officer, and the very material for a chef-de-bataillon--rough, brave, quick, and as hardy as
iron. Half a dozen scars gave evidence of his having shared the glories of France on the Rhine,
the Po, and the Danube; and a cross of the Legion of Honour showed that his emperor was a different
person from the object of Don Ignacio's cureless wrath, the war-minister who "made a point
of neglecting all possible merit below that of a field-marshal."

The Frenchman, with all his, brusquerie, was civil enough to regret my capture, "peculiarly
as it laid him under the necessity of taking me far from my route;" his regiment then making
forced marches to Andalusia, to join Dupont's division; and for the purpose of secrecy, the
strictest orders having been given that the prisoners which they might make in the way should
be carried along with them. As I had forwarded my official papers from Galicia to Castile,
and was regarded simply as an English tourist, I had no sense of personal hazard; and putting
the best complexion which I could upon my misadventure, I rode along with the column over hill
and dale, enjoying the various aspects of one of the most varied and picturesque countries
in the world. Our marches were rapid, but chiefly by night; thus evading at once the intolerable
heat of the Spanish day, and collisions with the people. We bivouacked in the shelter of woods,
or in the shade of hills, during the sultry hours; and recommenced our march in the cool of
the eve, with short halts, until sunrise. Then we flung ourselves again under the shelter of
the trees, and enjoyed those delights of rest and appetite, which are unknown to all but to
the marchers and fasters for twelve hours together.

But, on our crossing the Sierra Morena, and taking the direction of Andalusia, the scene was
wholly changed. The country was like one vast field of battle. The peasants were every where
in arms, villages were seen burning along the horizon, and our constant vigilance was necessary
to guard against a surprise. Every soldier who lay down to rest but a few yards from the column,
or who attempted to forage in the villages, was sure to be shot or stilettoed; provisions were
burned before our faces; and even where we were not actually fired on, the frowns of the population
showed sufficiently that the evil day was at hand. At length we reached the range of hills
which surround the plain of Cordova; yet only just in time to see the army of Dupont marching
out from the city gates, in the direction of Andujar. As I stood beside the colonel, I could
observe, by the knitting of his brow, that the movement did not satisfy his military sagacity.
"What a quantity of baggage!" he murmured: "how will it be possible to carry such a train through
the country, or how to fight, with such an encumbrance embarrassing every step? Unless the
Spanish generals are the greatest fools on earth, or unless Dupont has a miracle worked for
him, he must either abandon three-fourths of his waggons, or be ruined."

But I was now to have a nearer interest in the expedition. The battalion had no sooner joined
the army on its advance, than I was ordered to appear before the chief of the staff. The language
of this officer was brief, but expressive.

"You are a spy."

"You are misinformed. I am a gentleman and an Englishman."

"Look here." He produced a copy of my letter to the junta of Castile, which some clerk in the
French pay had treacherously transmitted from Madrid. "What answer have you to this?"

I flung the letter on the table.

"What right have you to require an answer? I have not come voluntarily to the quarters of the
French army; I am a prisoner; I am not even in a military capacity. You would only act in conformity
to the law of nations by giving me my liberty this moment; and I demand that you shall do your
duty."

"I shall do it! If you have any arrangements to make, you had better lose no time; for I wait
only the general's signature to my report, to have you shot." He turned on his heel. A sergeant
with a couple of grenadiers entered, and I was consigned for the night to the provost-marshal.
How anxiously I spent that night, I need not say. I was in the hands of violent men, exasperated
by the popular resistance, and accustomed to disregard life. I braced myself up to meet my
untoward catastrophe, and determined at least not to disgrace my country by helpless solicitation.
I wrote a few letters, committed myself to a protection above the passions and vices of man,
wrapped my cloak round me, and sank into a sound slumber.

I was aroused by a discharge of cannon, and found the camp in commotion. The Spaniards, under
Reding and Castanos, had, as the colonel anticipated, fallen upon our line of march at daybreak,
and cut off a large portion of the baggage-train. It had been loaded with the church-plate,
and general plunder of Cordova; and the avarice of the French had obviously involved them in
formidable difficulty. But, even in the universal tumult, the importance of my seizure was
not forgotten; and I was ordered to the rear in charge of a guard. The action now began on
all sides; the cannonade rapidly deepening on the flank and centre of the French position,
and the musketry already beginning to rattle on various points of the line. From the height
on which I stood, the whole scene lay beneath my eye; and nothing could have been better worth
the speculation of any man--who was not under sentence of being shot as soon as the struggle
was over!

I was aware of the reputation of the French general. He held a high name among the braves of
the imperial army for the last ten years, and he had been foremost everywhere. In the desperate
Italian campaign against the Austrians and Russians; in the victorious campaign of Austerlitz;
in the sanguinary campaign of Eylau--Dupont was one of the most daring of generals of brigade.
But his pillage of Cordova had roused the Spanish wrath into fury; and the effort to carry
off his plunder made it impossible for him to resist a vigorous attack, even with his twenty
thousand veterans. He had indulged himself in Cordova, until the broken armies of the south
had found time to rally; and a force of fifty thousand men was now rushing down upon his centre.
The hills, as far as the eye could range, were covered with the armed peasantry, moving like
dark clouds over their sides, and descending by thousands to the field. The battle now raged
furiously in the centre, and the charges of the French cavalry made fearful gaps in the Spanish
battalions. At length, the rising of the dust on the right showed that a strong column was
approaching, which might decide the day. My heart beat slow as I saw the tricolor floating
above its bayonets. It was the advanced guard, with Dupont at its head--a force of three thousand
men, which had returned rapidly on its steps, as soon as the sound of the attack had reached
it. It was boldly resisted by the Swiss and Walloon brigades of the Spanish line: but the French
fire was heavy, its manoeuvre was daring, and I began to fear for the fate of the day; when
a loud explosion, and a hurried movement at the extreme of the French position, turned my eyes
to the left wing. There the Spanish attack had swept every thing before it. Brigade after brigade
was giving way, and the country was covered with scattered horsemen, infantry retiring in disorder,
and broken and captured guns. The peasantry, too, had joined in the pursuit, and the wing seemed
utterly ruined. To retrieve this disorder was now hopeless, for the French general had extended
his line to the extraordinary length of ten miles. His baggage-train was his ruin. The whole
Spanish line now advanced, shouting, and only halting at intervals to cannonade the enemy.
The French returned a feeble fire, and began to retreat. But retreat was now impossible, and
they must fight, or be massacred. At this moment I saw an officer, from the spot where Dupont
sat on his charger surrounded by his staff, gallop between the two armies. He was met by a
Spanish officer. The firing ceased. Dupont had surrendered, with all the troops in Andalusia!

I was now at liberty, and I was received by the Spanish commander-in-chief with the honours
due to my mission and my country. After mutual congratulations on this most brilliant day,
I expressed my wish to set off for Madrid without delay. An escort of cavalry was ordered for
me, and by midnight I had left behind me the slaughter and the triumph, the noblest of Spanish
fields, the immortal Baylen!

The night was singularly dark; and as the by-roads of the Peninsula are confessedly among the
most original specimens of the road-making art, our attention was chiefly occupied, for the
first hour, in finding our way in Indian file. At length, on the country's opening, I rode
forward to the head of the troops, and addressed some questions, on our distance from the next
town, to the officer. He at once pronounced my name, and my astonishment was not less than
his own. In the commandant of the escort I found my gallant, though most wayward, young friend,
Mariamne's lover, Lafontaine! His story was brief. In despair of removing her father's reluctance
to their marriage, and wholly unable to bring over Mariamne to his own opinion, that she would
act the wiser part in taking the chances of the world along with himself, he had resolved to
enter the Russian or the Turkish service, or any other in which he had the speediest probability
of ending his career by a bullet or a sabre-blow. The accidental rencontre of one of his relations,
an officer high in the Spanish service, had led him into the Peninsula; where, as a Royalist,
he was warmly received by a people devoted to their kings; and had just received a commission
in the cavalry of the guard, when the French war broke out. He felt no scruples in acting as
a soldier of Spain; for, with the death of Louis, he had regarded all ties as broken, and he
was now a citizen of the world. I ventured to mention the name of Mariamne; and I found that,
there at least, the inconstancy charged on his nation had no place. He spoke of her with eloquent
tenderness, and it was evident that, with all his despair of ever seeing her again, she still
held the first place in his heart. In this wandering, yet by no means painful, interchange
of thoughts, we moved on for some hours; when one of the advanced troopers rode back, to tell
us that he had heard shots in the distance, and other sounds of struggle. We galloped forward,
and from the brow of the next hill saw flames rising from a village in the valley beneath,
and a skirmish going on between some marauding troops and the peasantry. Lafontaine instantly
ordered an advance; and our whole troop were soon in the centre of the village, busily employed
with the pistol and sabre. The French, taken by surprise, made but a slight resistance, and,
after a few random shots, ran to a neighbouring wood. But as I was looking round, to congratulate
my friend on his success, I saw him, to my infinite alarm, reel in his saddle, and had only
time to save him from falling to the ground.

The accommodation of the Ventas and Posadas is habitually wretched, and I demanded whether
there was not a house of some hidalgo in the neighbourhood, to which the wounded officer might
be carried. One of the last shots of the skirmish had struck him in the arm, and he was now
fainting with pain. The house was pointed out, and we carried my unfortunate friend there,
in a swoon. Even in that moment of anxiety, and with scarcely more than the first dawn to guide
us, I could not help being struck with the cultivated beauty of the avenue through which we
passed, and the profusion and variety of the flowers, which now began to breathe their opening
incense to the dawn. The house was old, but large and handsome, and the furniture of the apartment
into which we were shown, was singularly tasteful and costly. Who the owner was, was scarcely
known among the bold fellows who accompanied us; but by their pointings to their foreheads,
and their making the sign of the cross at every repetition of my enquiries, I was inclined
to think him some escaped lunatic. I shortly, however, received a message from him, to tell
me, that so soon as the crowd should be dismissed, he would visit the officer. The apartment
was cleared and he came. This was a new wonder for me. It was Mordecai that entered the room.
The light was still so imperfect, that for awhile he could not recognise either of us; and
when I advanced to take his hand, and addressed him by his name, he started back as if he had
trod upon a snake. However, his habitual presence of mind soon enabled him to answer all my
enquiries, and, among the first, one for the health and happiness of his daughter. Fearful
of the effects of his intelligence, whether good or evil, on the nerves of Lafontaine, who
still lay on the sofa, almost invisible in the dusk, I begged to follow him to another room,
and there I listened to his whole anxious history since our parting.--Mariamne had suddenly
grown discontented with Poland; which to Mordecai himself had become a weary residence, from
the ravages of the French war. For some reason, unaccountable to me, said the old man, she
set her heart upon Spain, and had now been domiciled in this secluded spot for a year. But
she was visibly fading away. She read and wrote much, and was even more attached to her harp
and her flowers than ever; yet declared that she had bid farewell to the world. The father
wept as he spoke, but his were the tears of sorrow rather than of anguish. They stole quietly
down his cheeks, and showed that the stern and haughty spirit was subdued within him. I had
not ventured to allude to Lafontaine; but the current of his own thoughts at length led to
that forbidden topic. "I am afraid, Mr Marston," said he, "that I have been too harsh with
my child. I looked for her alliance with some of the opulent among my own kindred; or I should
have rejoiced if your regards had been fixed on her, and hers on you. And in those dreams,
I forgot that the affections must choose for themselves. I had no objection to the young Frenchman,
but that he was a stranger, and was poor.--Yet are not we ourselves strangers? and if he was
poor, was not I rich? But all is over now; and I shall only have to follow my poor Mariamne,
where I should have much rather preceded her,--to the grave."

I now requested to see Mariamne. She met me with almost a cry of joy, and with a cheek of sudden
crimson; but, when the first flush passed away, her looks gave painful proof of the effect
of solitude and sorrow. The rounded beauty of her cheek was gone, her eyes, once dancing with
every emotion, were fixed and hollow, and her frame, once remarkable for symmetry, was thin
and feeble. But, her heart was buoyant still, and when I talked of past scenes and recollections,
her eye sparkled once more. Still, her manner was changed--it was softer and less capricious;
her language, even her voice, was subdued; and more than once I saw a tear stealing on her
eye. At length, after hearing some slight detail of her wanderings, and her fears that the
troubles of Spain might drive her from a country in whose genial climate and flowery fields
"she had hoped to end her days;" I incidentally asked--whether, in all her wanderings, she
had heard of "my friend, Lafontaine." How impossible is it to deceive the instinct of the female
heart! The look which she gave me, the searching glance of her fine eyes, which flashed with
all their former lustre, and the sudden quivering of her lip, told me how deeply his image
was fixed in her recollection. She saw at once that I had tidings of her lover; and she hung
upon the hand which I held out to her, with breathless and beseeching anxiety. After some precautions,
I revealed to her the facts--that he was as faithfully devoted to her as ever, and--that he
was even under her roof!

I leave the rest of her story to be conjectured. I shall only say, that I saw her made happy;
the burden taken off her spirits which had exhausted her frame; her former vivacity restored,
her eye sparkling once more; and even the heart of her father cheered, and acknowledging "that
there was happiness in the world, if men did not mar it for themselves." The "course of true
love" had, at last, "run smooth." I was present at the marriage of Lafontaine. The trials of
fortune had been of infinite service to him; they had sobered his eccentricity, taught him
the value of a quiet mind, and prepared him for that manlier career which belongs to the husband
and the father. I left them, thanking me in all the language of gratitude, promising to visit
me in England.

       *       *       *       *       *

My mission to the junta was speedily and successfully accomplished. Spain, in want of every
thing but that which no subsidy could supply, a determination to die in the last intrenchment,
was offered arms, ammunition, and the aid of an English army. In her pride, and yet a pride
which none could blame, she professed herself able to conquer by her own intrepidity. Later
experience showed her, by many a suffering, the value of England as the guide, sustainer, and
example of her national strength. But Spain had still the gallant distinction of being the
first nation which, as one man, dared to defy the conqueror of all the great military powers
of the Continent. The sieges of Saragossa and Gerona will immortalize the courage of the Spanish
soldier; the guerilla campaigns will immortalize the courage of the Spanish peasant; and the
memorable confession of the French Emperor, that "Spain was his greatest error, and his ultimate
ruin," is a testimonial more lasting than the proudest trophy, to the magnanimous warfare of
the Peninsula.

This was the Crisis. The spirit of the whole European war now assumed a bolder, loftier, and
more triumphant form. A sudden conviction filled the general heart, that the fortunes of the
field were about to change. Nations which had, till then, been only emulous in prostration
to the universal conqueror, now assumed the port of courage, prepared their arms, and longed
to try their cause again in battle. The outcry of Spain, answered by the trumpet of England,
pierced to the depths of that dungeon in which the intrigue and the power of France had laboured
to inclose the continental nations. The war of the Revolution has already found historians,
of eloquence and knowledge worthy of so magnificent an era of human change. But, to me, the
chief interest arose from its successive developments of the European mind. The whole period
was a continued awakening of faculties, hitherto almost unknown, in the great body of the people.
The first burst of the Revolution, like the first use of gunpowder, had only shown the boundless
force of a new element of destruction. The Spanish insurrection showed its protecting and preservative
power. The tremendous energy which seemed to defy all control, was there seen effecting the
highest results of national defence, and giving proof of the irresistible strength provided
in the population of every land. What nation of Europe does not possess a million of men for
its defence; and what invader could confront a million of men on their own soil? Let this truth
be felt, and aggression becomes hopeless, and war ceases to exist among men.

For the first time in the history of war, it was discovered, that the true force of kingdoms
had been mistaken--a mistake which had lasted for a thousand years; that armies were but splendid
machines; and that, while they might be crushed by the impulse of machines more rapid, stronger,
and more skilfully urged, nothing could crush the vigour of defence, while it was supplied
by a people.

The levée en masse of France was but the rudest, as it was the earliest, form of the new discovery.
There, terror was the moving principle. The conscription was the recruiting-officer. The guillotine
was the commander who manoeuvred the generals, the troops, and the nation. Yet, the revolutionary
armies differed in nothing from the monarchical, but in the superiority of their numbers, and
the inferiority of their discipline.

The war of Spain was another, and a nobler advance. It was the war of a nation. In France the
war was the conspiracy of a faction. In Spain the loss of the capital only inflamed the hostility
of the provinces. In France the loss of the capital would have extinguished the Revolution;
as it afterwards extinguished the Empire. I think that I can see the provision for a still
bolder and more beneficent advance, even in those powerful developments of national capabilities.
It will, perhaps, be left to other nations. Spain and France have a yoke upon their minds,
which will disqualify them both from acting the nobler part of guides to Europe. Superstition
contains in itself the canker of slavery; perfect freedom is essential to perfect power; and
the nation which, from the cradle, prostrates itself to the priest, must retain the early flexure
of its spine. The great experiment must be reserved for a nobler public mind; for a people
religious without fanaticism, and free without licentiousness; honouring the wisdom of their
fathers, without rejecting the wisdom of the living age; aspiring but to the ministration of
universal good, and feeling that its opulence, knowledge, and grandeur are only gifts for mankind.

The system of the war was now fully established. All the feelings of England were fixed on
the Peninsula, and all the politics of her statesmen and their rivals were alike guided by
the course of the conflict. The prediction was gallantly fulfilled--that the French empire
would there expose its flank to English intrepidity; that the breaching battery which was to
open the way to Paris, would be fixed on the Pyrenees; that the true sign of conquest was the
banner of England.

The battle of the Ministry was fought in Spain, and as victoriously as the battle of our army.
We saw Opposition gradually throw away its arms, and gradually diminish in the popular view,
until its existence was scarcely visible. Successive changes varied the cabinet, but none shook
its stability. Successive ministers sank into the grave, but the ministry stood. The spirit
of the nation, justly proud of its triumphs, disdained to listen to the whispers of a party,
who murmured defeat with victory before their eyes; who conjured up visions of ruin, only to
be rebuked by realities of triumph; and to whom the national scorn of pusillanimity, and the
national rejoicing in the proudest success, could not unteach the language of despair. Perceval,
the overthrower of the Foxite ministry, perished; but the political system of the cabinet remained
unchanged. Castlereaghperished--Liverpool perished; but the political system still remained.
The successive pilots might give up the helm, but the course of the great vessel continued
the same--guided by the same science, and making her way through sunshine, and through storm,
to the same point of destination.

The three successive ministers were men of high ability for government, though their character
of ability exhibited the most remarkable distinctions. Perceval had been a lawyer, and had
risen to the rank of attorney-general. In the House, he carried the acuteness, the logic, and
even the manner, of his profession with him. Without pretending to the power of eloquence,
he singularly possessed the power of conviction; without effecting changes in the theory of
the constitution, he put its truths in a new light; and without a trace of bigotry, he defended,
with conscientious vigour, the rights of the national religion. Sustaining a bold struggle
at the head of the feeblest minority perhaps ever known in Parliament, he had shown unshaken
courage and undismayed principle in the day of the Foxite supremacy. This defence was at length
turned into assault, and his opponents were driven from power. His ministry was too brief for
his fame. But, when he fell by the hand of a maniac, he left a universal impression on the
mind of the empire, that the blow had deprived it of a great ministerial mind.

Lord Castlereagh exhibited a character of a totally different order, yet equally fitted for
his time. An Irishman, he had the habitual intrepidity of his countrymen, combined with the
indefatigable diligence of England. Nobly connected, and placed high in public life by that
connexion, he showed himself capable of sustaining his ministerial rank by personal capacity.
Careless of the style of his speeches, he was yet a grave, solid, and fully-informed debater.
But it was in the council that his value to the country was most acknowledged. His conception
of the rights, the influence, and the services of England, was lofty; and, when the period
came for deciding on her rank in the presence of continental diplomacy, he was her chosen,
and her successful, representative. His natural place was among the councils of camps, where
sovereigns were the soldiers. The "march to Paris" was due to his courage; and the first fall
of Napoleon was effected by the ambassador of England.

Lord Liverpool was a man equally fitted for his time. The war had triumphantly closed. But,
a period of perturbed feelings and financial necessities followed. It required in the minister
a combination of sound sense and practical vigour--of deference for the public feelings, yet
respect for the laws--of promptitude in discovering national resources, and yet of firmness
in repelling factious change. The head of the cabinet possessed those qualities. Without brilliancy,
without eloquence, without accomplished literature; still, no man formed his views with a clearer
intelligence; and no man pursued them with more steady determination. Perhaps disdaining the
glitter of popularity, no minister, for the last half century, had been so singularly exempt
from all the sarcasms of public opinion. The nation relied on his sincerity, honoured his purity
of principle, and willingly confided its safety to hands which none believed capable of a stain.

But the characters of those three ministers were striking in a still higher point of view.
Their qualities seem to have been expressly constructed to meet the peculiar exigency of their
times. Perceval--acute, strict, and with strong religious conceptions--to meet a period, when
religious laxity in the cabinet had already enfeebled the defence of the national religion.
Castlereagh--stately, bold, and high-toned--to meet a period, when the fate of Europe was to
be removed from cabinets to the field, and when he was to carry the will of England among assembled
monarchs. Liverpool--calm, rational, and practical; the man of conscience and common sense--for
the period, when the great questions of religion had been quieted, the great questions of the
war had died with the war, and when the supreme difficulty of government was, to reconcile
the pressure of financial exigency with the progress of the people--to invigorate the public
frame without inflaming it by dangerous innovation--and to reconstruct the whole commercial
constitution, without infringing on those principles which had founded the prosperity of the
empire.

At length the consummation came: the French empire fell on the field by the hand of England.
All the sovereigns of Europe rushed in to strip the corpse, and each carried back a portion
of the spoils. But the conqueror was content with the triumph, and asked no more of glory than
the liberation of mankind.

While all was public exultation for this crowning event, fortune had not neglected to reward
the gentler virtues of one worthy of its noblest gifts. In my first campaign with the Prussian
troops in France, I had intrusted to the care of the old domestic whom I found in the Chateau
de Montauban, an escritoire and a picture, belonging to the family of Clotilde. The old man
had disappeared; and I took it for granted that he had been plundered, or had died.

But one day, after my return from one of those splendid entertainments with which the Regent
welcomed the Allied sovereigns, I found Clotilde deeply agitated. The picture of her relative
was before her, and she was gazing at its singularly expressive and lovely countenance with
intense interest.

She flew into my arms. "I have longed for your coming," said she, with glowing lips and tearful
eyes, "to offer at least one proof of gratitude for years of the truest protection, and the
most generous love. Michelle, the husband of my nurse, has arrived; and he tells me, that this
escritoire contains the title-deeds of my family. I was resolved that you alone should open
it. In the frame of that picture, in a secret drawer, is the key." The spring was touched,
the key was found; and in the little chest was discovered, untouched by chance or time, the
document entitling my beautiful and high-hearted wife to one of the finest possessions in France.
By a singular instance of good fortune, the property had not been alienated, like so many of
the estates of the noblesse; and it now lay open to the claims of the original proprietorship.
I hastened to Paris. My claim was acknowledged by the returned Bourbon, and Clotilde had the
delight of once more sitting under the vine and the fig-tree of her ancestors. The old domestic
had made it the business of years to obtain the means of reaching England. But the war had
placed obstacles in his way every where, and he devoted himself thenceforth to the guardianship
of his precious deposit, as the duty of his life. He was almost pathetic, in his narration
of the hazards to which it had been exposed in the perpetual convulsions of the country, and
in the rejoicing with which he felt himself at last enabled to place it in the hands of its
rightful mistress, the last descendant of the noble house of De Tourville.--But I had still
to experience another gift of fortune.

On the evening of my birth-day, Clotilde had given a rustic fête to the children of her tenantry;
and all were dancing in front of the chateau, with the gaiety and with the grace which nature
seems to have conferred as an especial gift on even the humblest classes of France.

The day was one of the luxury of summer. The landscape before me was a rich extent of plain
and hill; the fragrance of the vast gardens of the chateau as rising as the twilight approached;
my infants were clustering round my knee; and in that thankfulness of heart, which is not less
sincere for its not being expressed in words, I came to the conclusion, that no access of wealth,
or of honours, could add to my substantial happiness at that hour.

My reverie was broken by the sound of a calèche driving up the avenue. A courier alighted from
it, who brought a letter with a black seal, addressed to me. It was from the family solicitor.
My noble brother had died in Madeira; where he had gone in the hopeless attempt to recruit
a frame which he had exhausted by a life of excess. In that hour, I gave him the regrets which
belonged to the tie of blood. I forgot his selfishness, and forgave his alienation. I thought
of him only as the remembered playfellow of my early days; and could say in heart--"Alas, my
brother!" The landscape before me at last sank into night; and with feelings darkened like
it, yet calm and still, I saw the closing of a day which, painful as was the cause, yet called
me to new duties, gave me a stronger hold upon society, and placed me in that position which
I fully believe to combine more of the true materials of happiness and honour than any other
on earth--that of an opulent English nobleman.

My brother, dying childless, had devolved the family estates to me, disburdened of the results
of his prodigality; but I had still much to occupy me, in restoring them from the neglect of
years. The life of the member of government was now to alternate with the life of the country
gentleman; and my transfer to the House of Peers gave me the comparative leisure, essential
to the fulfilment of the large and liberal duties which belong to the English landholder. To
cheer the country life by rational hospitality; to make friends of those whom nature had made
dependents; to sustain those laws which had turned England into a garden; and to protect that
"bold peasantry," who ought to be the pride, as they are the strength of their country; to
excite the country gentlemen to the scientific study of the noblest of all arts, as it was
the first, the cultivation of the soil; to maintain among that gallant race a high sense of
their purposes, their powers, and their position; to invigorate the principles which had made
them the surest defenders of the throne in its day of adversity; and to fix in their minds
by example, more effectual than precept, a solemn fidelity to the faith and to the freedom
of their forefathers:--these were the objects which I proposed to myself, and which the loftiest
intellect, or the amplest opulence, might be well employed in attempting to fulfil.

Those objects had been placed before England, from the day when the light of the Reformation
broke through the darkness of a thousand years, and her brow was first designed for the diadem.
By those she was made the universal protector of Europe, in its day of fugitive princes and
falling thrones; and by those alone will be erected round her, if she shall remain true to
her allegiance, a wall of fire, in the days of that approaching contest which shall bring the
powers of good and evil front to front, in strength and hostility unknown before, and consummate
the wars of the world.

Yet with those tranquil and retired pursuits, I still took my share in the activity of public
life. I was still minister, and bore my part in the discussions of the legislature. But the
great questions which had once sounded in my ear, like the call to battle in the ear of the
warrior, had passed away. The minds that "rode in the whirlwind, and ruled the storm," had
vanished with the storm. The surge had gone down; and neither the dangers of my earlier day,
nor the powers which were summoned to resist them, were to be found in the living generation.
Yet, let it not be thought that I regard the mind of England as exhausted, or even as exhaustible.
The only distinction between the periods is, that one gave the impulse, and that the other
only continues it. When peril comes again, we shall again see the development of power. We
might as well doubt the existence of lightning, because the day is serene, the sun shining,
and no cloud rolls across the heaven. But when the balance of the elements demands to be restored,
we shall again be dazzled by the flash, and awed by the thunder.

But time has taught me additional lessons. I have learned to see a hand, in all its clouds,
which guides man and kingdoms with more than human power. In these remembrances, I have spoken
but little of religion. It belongs to the chamber more than to the council; and it is less
honoured than humiliated by being brought idly before men. But by that light I have been able
to see, where subtler minds have been blind. The man may be bewildered by the glare of the
torch in his hand, who would have found his way by trusting to the milder lustre of the stars.
In the great war of our time, the greatest since the fall of the Roman empire--the war of the
French Revolution--I think, that I can trace a divine protection, distinctly given to England
as the champion of justice, honour, and religion. I offer but the outline of this view; but
to me the proof is demonstrative.--In every instance in which France aimed an especial blow
at England, that blow was retorted by an especial retribution; while her assaults on the continental
kingdoms were made with triumphant impunity.

I give the examples.--The French expedition to Egypt was formed with the express object of
breaking down the influence of England in the East, and ultimately subverting her Indian empire--that
expedition was the first which tarnished the military renown of the Republic, cost her a fleet,
and lost her an army. Of the army which Napoleon led to Egypt, not a battalion returned to
Europe but as the prisoners of England!

The French invasion of Spain was a blow aimed expressly at England. Its object was the invasion
of England--the Spanish war broke down the military renown of the Empire, and was pronounced
by Napoleon to be the origin of his ruin!

The invasion of Russia was a blow aimed expressly at England. Its object was the extinction
of English commerce in the whole sea-line of the north--that invasion was punished, by the
ruin of the whole veteran army of France!

Napoleon himself at length met the troops of England. He met them with an arrogant assumption
of victory--"Ah! je les tiens, ces Anglais." Never was presumption more deeply punished. This
single conflict destroyed him; his laurels, his diadem, and his dynasty, were blasted together!

It is not less memorable, that during the entire Revolutionary war, France was never suffered
to inflict an injury on England; with one exception--the perfidious seizure of the English
travelling in the French territories under the safeguard of the Imperial passports. But this,
too, had its punishment--and one of the most especial and characteristic retribution--Napoleon
himself was sent to a dungeon! By a fate unheard of even among fallen princes, the man who
had treacherously made prisoners of the English was himself made a prisoner, was delivered
into English hands, was consigned to captivity in an English island, and died the prisoner
of England!

I speak of events like these, not in the spirit of superstition, nor in the fond presumption
of being an interpreter of the mysterious ways of Providence. I record them, in a full consciousness
of the immeasurable distance between the intellect of man and the wisdom of the supreme Disposer.
But they convey, at least to my own feelings, a confidence, a solemn security, a calm yet ardent
conviction, that chance has no share in the government of the world; that the great tide of
things, in its rise and fall, has laws, which, if unapproached by the feebleness of human faculties,
are not the less true, vast, and imperishable; that if, like the air, the agency of that ruling
and boundless authority is invisible, we may yet feel its existence in its effects, rejoice
in the acknowledgment of a power which nothing can exhaust, and take to our bosoms the high
consolation, that the good of man is the supreme principle of the system.

       *       *       *       *       *

Men actively employed in public life, are strangely apt to think that there is no progress
outside their circle. But, on my return to Mortimer Castle, I found this conception amply confuted.
The world had moved as rapidly in those shades, as in the centre of cabinets and courts. Time
had done its work, in changing the condition of almost every human being whom I had known in
my early days. The brothers and sisters, whom I had left children, were now in the full beauty
of their prime; my brothers showy and stirring youths; my sisters fair and gentle girls, just
reaching that period of life when the countenance and mind are in their bloom together, and
the highborn woman of England is the loveliest perhaps in the world. The extravagance of my
elder brother had dilapidated the provision intended for the younger branches of his house.
My habits, learned in a sterner school, enabled me to retrieve their fortunes, and I thus secured
a new tie to their regards. Justice is essential to all gratitude, and I found them ready to
pay the tribute, to the full.

Among my first visits was one to my old friend and tutor, Vincent. I found him still resident
on his living; and with spirits, on which time had wrought no change. Years had passed lightly
over his head. His eye was as vivid, and his mind as active as ever. He perhaps stooped a little
more, and his frame had lost something of that elasticity of step which had so often tried
my young nerves in our ramblings over the hills. But he was the same cordial, animated, and
high-toned being, in all his feelings, that I had seen him from the first hour. I found him
in his garden, arranging, selecting, and enjoying his flower-beds with all the spirit of a
horticulturist. But he apologised for what he termed, "its disorder." "For," said he, "I have
lost all my gardeners." On my looking doubtful, "All my girls," said he, "are gone; all married;
all wedded to one neighbour or another. Such is the way in which I have been left alone." I
made my condolences on his solitude, in due form. "Yet I am not quite solitary," added the
gay old man, "after all; or my solitude depends upon myself. My girls are all married to our
squires, honest fellows, and some of them well enough off in the world. But I made a stipulation,
that none of them should marry out of sight from the gazebo on the top of yonder hill; and
when I want their company, I have only to hoist a flag. You see that I have not altogether
forgotten my days of the sabre and the signal-post; my telegraph works well, and I have them
all trooping over here with the regularity of a squadron."

The approach of winter made the castle a scene of increased liveliness. I had always looked
with strong distaste on the habit of flying to watering-places at the season when the presence
of the leading families of a county is most important to the comforts of the tenantry, and
to the intelligent and social intercourse of the higher ranks. I sent a request to Lafontaine
and his wife, that they should perform their "covenant," and venture to see "how English life
contrived to get through the dulness of its Decembers." My request was countersigned by Clotilde,
and this was irresistible. They came, and were received with a joyous welcome. They too had
undergone a change. Lafontaine was graver, and was much the better for his gravity. He was
now the sincere and kind-hearted being for which nature had intended him. The coxcombry of
French early life had disappeared, and left behind it only that general grace and spirit which
makes the maturity of a foreign life its most interesting portion. Mariamne was still more
advantageously changed. Her wild vivacity was less subdued than transformed into elegance of
manner; her features were still handsome, travel had given her knowledge, and her natural talents
had been cultivated by the solitary hours, in which but for that cultivation she might have
sunk into the grave. She had brought with her, too, another remembrance, and one of that order
which produces the most powerful effect upon the whole character of woman. She had brought
her first-born, a lovely infant, in which her whole soul seemed to be absorbed, and in which
she already discovered more beauties and good qualities than fate or fortune had ever given
to human nature. But the centre of our circle, and the admiration and love of all, sat my wife,
my generous, noble, pure-spirited Clotilde. Time, too, had wrought its change on her; but it
was only to give her deeper claims on the feelings of a heart which could not imagine happiness
without her. The heroine had wholly disappeared, and given place to the woman; the character
of resistance to the shocks and frowns of fortune, which adversity had made essential perhaps
to her being, had passed away with her day of suffering. She was now soft, mild, tender, and
confiding. She often reminded me of some of those plants which, when exposed to the storm,
contract and diminish their form and foliage; but, when sheltered, resume their original luxuriance
and loveliness. Clotilde, in the sufferings of the emigration, in the terrors of the Revolution,
and in the march through the Vendée, might have perished, but for that loftiness of soul which
was awakened by the exigency of the trial. But now, surrounded with all the security of rank,
and with opulence for her enjoyment, and with love to cherish her, she displayed the force
of her nature only in the fondness of her affections. Thus surrounded, thus cheered, thus looked
up to by beings whom I loved; what had I to ask for more? Nothing. I here close my page of
life. I still vividly retain all the sense of duty, all the feeling of patriotism, and all
the consciousness, that age will neither dull my heart towards those whom I have so long loved,
nor shut up theirs to me. I believe in the possibility of friendship untainted by selfishness,
and I am firm in the faith, of love that knows no decline. I look round me, and am serenely
happy. I look above me, and am sacredly thankful.

HOW WE GOT UP THE GLENMUTCHKIN RAILWAY, AND HOW WE GOT OUT OF IT.   Sat.

"Well, then--there's a checque.

THE SCIENCE OF LANGUAGES.[8]

The past history of Mr Morgan Kavanagh is probably as little known to our readers as it is
to ourselves. But his future destiny is not equally obscure. We have it, on his own authority,
that he has made a discovery of unparalleled merit and magnitude, as simple as it is surprising,
and calculated, in an equal degree, to benefit mankind, and immortalize its author. He has
discovered the science of languages--a science in which the wisest hitherto have been smatterers,
but in which the most shallow may henceforward be profound. In the prophetic spirit of conscious
genius, Horace, Ovid, and other great men, have boasted of the perpetuity of fame achieved
by their efforts; and Kavanagh, apparently under a similar inspiration, indulges the pleasing
anticipation, that he has completed a monument more lasting than brass--of which material,
it may be observed, he does not appear to have a deficient supply. He confesses, that on so
trite a subject, the presumption is against him of so great an achievement; but he sticks to
his point, and is sure that he has attained an undying name by his inestimable disclosures:--

     "A discovery equalling in magnitude the one to which I lay claim,
     must appear to all, before examining its accompanying proofs,
     just about as probable as the discovery, in the neighbourhood of
     the British Channel, of some rich and extensive island that had
     escaped till now the mariner's notice. Then am I either
     egregiously in error, or, through my humble means, one of the
     greatest and most important discoveries on record has been made."

The alternative here allowed us is irresistible--either our author is egregiously in error,
or he has made a great discovery. Who can doubt it? We feel at once driven to the wall by the
horns of so dexterous a dilemma; and unable as we are, in the kindness of our hearts, to adopt
the more uncivil supposition, we succumb, without a struggle, to the only choice left us, and
concede to such a disputant all that he can demand.

Mr Kavanagh is determined that the importance of his discovery shall lose nothing from his
reluctance to put it in the strongest light:--

     "If, from having taken a view of the human mind different from
     any other hitherto taken, and from having founded a rational
     principle, in conformity with this view, I can offer such a
     definition of words as may bear the strictest investigation, and
     which all may understand; and if a child, by adhering to this
     principle, may be able to account for words with all their
     changes and variations, and show them such as they must have
     been, not only ages before the Bible and the Iliad had been
     written, but even as they were at their very birth; then it will,
     I dare hope, be admitted, that I shall not only have surmounted
     innumerable difficulties, but have discovered the real science of
     languages. Yet all this, and a great deal more, may be done by
     the application of the principle by which I am guided."

Again he says:--

     "I am sorry that the resolution I have formed, of frankly speaking
     my mind throughout this work, obliges me to express myself as I
     do here and elsewhere with such an apparent want of modesty; but
     were I to adopt, with regard to this discovery, and the knowledge
     we have hitherto had of the science of grammar, what is
     understood by a more becoming and humble tone, I should, by doing
     so, lose in truth what I might gain by affected modesty, since I
     should not only be speaking falsely, but be leading the reader
     into error by concealing from him my real opinion, which I should
     by no means do. And if while it be allowed, as I am sure it must,
     that though I do well to speak as I think, it be observed that
     this is not a reason why I should think as I do--that is, so
     presumptuously--I beg to reply, that if I had never thought so,
     this discovery had never been attempted, and much less made; for
     notwithstanding what the world may say about the modesty of
     certain great men, I do in my heart believe that such modesty has
     been ever affected, and that it is wholly impossible that any
     thing great may be undertaken or achieved, but where there is at
     bottom great presumption, which is, after all, nothing more than
     a consciousness of one's own strength."

This is all right, and no apology was necessary. Why should a man be modest, who, in the six
thousandth year of the creation, has found out, for the first time, the science of languages?
Though entirely devoid of originality ourselves, we can sympathize with the proud exultation
of those who have produced a new and "glorious birth." From the cackling of the hen when she
has laid an egg, to the [Greek: heurêcha] of Archimedes when he discovered hydrostatics, we
see the instinctive impulse under which those who have brought to light a great result, are
constrained to proclaim it aloud; and we should be thankful when the mighty inventor can refrain
from rushing out, in native nudity, into the public way.

The discoverer of the science of languages, however, does not come forth upon us, like Archimedes,
in a state of dishabille. Attired in the same fashionable garb, rejoicing in the same paper
and type, and issuing from the shelves of the same respectable publishers, Mr Kavanagh's two
goodly octavos may fitly range, as far as exterior is concerned, with the collected productions
of Jeffrey and Macaulay, who will no doubt feel honoured by such good company. The fly-leaf
at the beginning of the work warns all pirates and poachers "that it is private property, protected
by the late Copyright Act;" and a foot-note seems to inform us that a French edition is simultaneously
to appear in Paris. Who could doubt that such mighty notes of preparation were to usher in
some magnum opus, worthy of the expectations thus excited?

Mr Kavanagh appears to us to have lived for some time in France, and if so, he has not lived
there in vain. He has acquired the knack of framing a bill of fare, that would do honour to
the reigning prince of restaurateurs, whoever he may be, and would create an appetite under
the ribs of death. Take the following excerpts from the contents:--

     "What the author should do before attempting to prove the
     discovery of the science of languages. This he does, and a great
     deal more."

     "View of the human mind. That taken by eminent philosophers
     inquired into, and found to be erroneous. The author's view of
     it."

     "Proof that there are no such words as substantives or nouns."

     "Pronouns, supposed like nouns, but erroneously, to represent
     substances. They never represent nouns, as they have been
     supposed to do. Proof that they never stand for substances, nor
     can be, any more than nouns, the subject of propositions. Their
     real nature shown, and difficulties and locutions connected with
     them accounted for. The original form of oh me! and ah me!"

     "Thus far the author pretends to have shown that there is but one
     part of speech."

     "The author's account of the verb. Why it cannot be compared like
     the adjective. The verb is an adjective or name in the fourth
     degree. It does not represent an action. TO and DO. Shown how it
     does not represent an action, and how grammarians have been led
     to suppose that it does."

     "How men expressed themselves in the beginning of the world, when
     they had occasion to make use of the verb TO BE."

     "The nature of a past participle in English and French. This
     knowledge of a past participle in French leads to a precious
     discovery."

     "How to find the etymology of words. Instances given: the meaning
     of friend, mind, blind, &c., shown."

     "The origin of the termination ish discovered. The etymology of
     the words, Ireland, Scotland, Dublin, with many other
     etymologies."

     "The feminine and plural of mon, ton, son, explained.
     Mes, tes, and ses, not plural numbers. Notre and votre
     do not come from the Latin words noster and vester. No
     language derived from another."

     "The first names man ever had for his own dwelling, with several
     other etymologies, such as barrack, good-by, property,
     coin, copper, maistre, castor, out-cast, caserne,
     quoit, cat, quiet, discus, Apollo, tranquil, keel,
     cuisse, &c."

     "The delicate meaning of certain words."

     "The extraordinary wisdom displayed in the formation of words:
     different accounts of the words man, woman, Adam, &c. The
     meanings of animare, animal, animation, beget, amo,
     Venus, shame, honte, &c.

     "The etymology of squat, cower, square, four, year,
     fair, faire, &c."

     "In the account given of the letters of the Greek alphabet are to
     be found explained the letters of all languages. To what this
     knowledge may lead. Shown how the twenty-four letters make but
     one. The dot over the i. A straight line, a circle, &c."

     "The ing in being accounted for. Meaning of big, wig,
     mig, &c.; of hat, oyster, &c.; of eight, octo, &c.; of
     nigh, near, night, &c. The literal meaning of negatives and
     affirmatives. What man's first oaths were."

     "Big, once a name for the Divinity."

     "How all numbers make but one. No such thing as a plural number.
     Examination of the ten figures, 1, 2, 3, &c. Each of them means
     one."

     "Concluding observations resumed. The difficulty of believing in
     this discovery. The great wisdom it contains. The language
     supposed to be spoken in heaven."

     "The advantages to be derived from this discovery. How
     Mathematicians, Theologians, Grammarians, Lexicographers,
     Logicians, and Philosophers, are likely to consider this
     discovery. Other works proposed."

     "The members of the press. Bookmaking. The many important
     discoveries in this work lie in the way of its immediate success
     with such minds as cannot receive new ideas. The view which the
     man of enlarged ideas is likely to take of it. The author's
     pretensions. His confidence in the ultimate success of this
     discovery."

We confess we felt our mouth water at the glimpses thus afforded of the coming feast; and we
are happy to acknowledge that what we expected was fully realized.

It must not be imagined that we are going to furnish, in these trivial pages, a full disclosure
of Mr Kavanagh's discovery. There are several reasons for our not doing so. First, we could
not, in common justice, think of spoiling the sale of Mr Kavanagh's book. Secondly, we are
not sanguine that, in the space allowed us, we could make the discovery understood by our readers.
And thirdly, we are not sure that we understand it ourselves. But, as far as consistent with
these considerations, we shall endeavour to give such a view of it as may excite, without satiating,
curiosity, and may give the means of conjecturing what the book itself must be, of which we
are enabled to offer such specimens.

It is a common and allowable artifice, in those attempting to lead us up the hill of science,
to point to some attractive object that is to be reached at the summit. Mr Kavanagh employs
this expedient with great effect. He shows us, near the outset of our journey, one astonishing
result to which it is to conduct us, and which necessarily inflames our eagerness to get over
the ground:--

     "That the reader may have in advance some notion of this manner
     of analysing words, and discovering their hidden meaning, I beg
     here to give, for the present, the contents of the analysis of
     the English alphabet collectively considered; that is, not as
     to what each letter means when read by itself, but as to what
     they all mean when read together in the following order:--

            A B C D E F G H I (or J) K L M N O P Q
                    R S T U (or V) W X Y Z;

     of which the literal meaning in modern English is--This first
     book is had of the Jews; it opens the mind, and is good breeding
     and wisdom. I shall show in the proper place how this meaning
     may be found in the above characters."

The steps by which we are to reach a mighty secret like this, are given by our author in great
detail; for, as he candidly observes--

     "Though my discoveries are mostly about as evident as any thing
     in Euclid, still, as they are new to the world, and require,
     previous to their being received as truths, the disagreeable
     admission that we have been hitherto in error; some art, besides
     down-right logical persuasion, will be necessary towards bringing
     the mind friendly to them."

The first discovery Mr Kavanagh seems to have made is, that he knew nothing of grammar; and
had he stopped here, he would have been entitled to no small praise for discernment. But this
was but a stepping-stone to greater things.

Mr Kavanagh seems by and by to have found out that "there are no such words as substantives
or nouns; that is to say, words standing for substances, or representing substances in any
manner." He discovered that such words, and indeed all words, are, whether it be true or not,
sounds to our ears not altogether new. We had a notion that, at least, the term noun, nom,
and nomen, meant properly a name, but of course Mr Kavanagh must know better. We must decline,
however, to follow him through his explanation on this footing of the real presence.

But then comes an announcement of undoubted originality, "that all words called substantives
are but names in the fourth degree of comparison; that is to say, in a degree above the one
commonly called the superlative." We durst not doubt that Mr Kavanagh is here right; but, for
persons of slow perception like ourselves, we should have liked to see a little more fully
explained what are the first, second, and third degrees of comparison of those names, of which
hat, stick, thing, hand, foot, &c., are the fourth degrees. Discoverers should bear a little
with beginners; and we suggest that, in a second edition, a full table should be given of what
we desiderate.

The view thus taken of nouns, leads, it seems, to important results, and, in particular, enables
us to explain what Mr Kavanagh had been puzzling himself about for half his lifetime--the meaning
of the expressions, "This is John's book," and "this is a book of John's." We had always thought
that the first of these phrases was plain sailing, and that the second meant, "this a book
of John's books--or, one of John's books," ex libris Joannis. But these simple suppositions
cannot satisfy men of science, who require a discovery to explain what other men think they
understand without one:--

     "We can now account for what has hitherto puzzled all grammarians,
     namely, the double possessive. This book of John's means, this
     book of all John's; that is, this book forming a part of all
     John's, of all things belonging to John."

     "And how rich and full the meaning of this new possessive! What
     an image it brings before the mind, compared to the wretched
     meaning our ignorance of this noble science has hitherto taught
     us to allow it to have! This book is John's, means, we have been
     told, this book is John's book. How frivolous, how poor, compared
     to, 'this book is part of all things corporeal and ideal
     belonging to John.' How useless this repetition of the same word
     book! and how incorrect! since if John possessed only one book,
     and that we said, 'this book of John's is better than mine,' we
     were immediately stopt, as we cannot say, this book of John's
     book is better than mine. But now we know that this book of
     John's, &c., means, 'this book is a part of all John's,' &c."

Our discoverer thereafter proceeds to analyse the personal terminations of verbs, of which
he seems to give an elucidation highly satisfactory to himself, and which, we hope, will be
equally so to his readers. It is obviously of oriental origin, being analogous to the astronomical
theory of the elephant and tortoise, by which the Hindoos are said so clearly to account for
the support of our terrestrial planet. "Love, lovest, loveth, or loves," &c., have been formed
by combining the root with the inflections of the auxiliary verb, to have. He gives a very
distinct table by which

     "We see that love hast has been shortened to lovest; love
     has, to loves; love hath to loveth; love had to loved;
     and love hadst to lovedst. The ha has been omitted
     throughout, as, love [ha]st; love [ha]s; love [ha]th; love [ha]d;
     love [ha]dst."

This is remarkably ingenious, and it must be from a very unphilosophical curiosity that ignorant
persons like ourselves are tempted to ask how Mr Kavanagh explains the origin of the inflections
have, hast, hath, had, &c. We have been accustomed to regard these terminations, though in
a contracted form, as having the same origin as those of other verbs; and we doubt if it would
command general acquiescence to say that "hath" was a compound of "have hath." But these are
probably foolish doubts, only showing the small progress of our scientific enlightenment; and
we feel assured that they would occur to no one who was once fully imbued with Mr Kavanagh's
principles.

A similar theory is applied by Mr Kavanagh with equal success to the Latin system of conjugation;
but we think it better to refer our readers to the book itself, than weaken its effect by any
attempt at an abstract of it. We cannot, however, resist quoting Mr Kavanagh's account of the
advantages to which his theories directly tend.

     "And this inquiry has led me to the most important of all my
     discoveries; since it not only showed me the original of the
     endings of the Latin verbs, but also those of the several
     declensions of Latin nouns, adjectives, pronouns, participles,
     &c., with their several cases, genders, numbers, &c. And this
     knowledge will not only apply to the Latin language, but of
     course to all the languages in the world. From this I have been
     also led to discover the real nature of a pronoun, and how words
     have been made in the beginning of time, and how they have
     increased from a single letter, or at most from two, to all which
     they have at present: by which means we may see the state of
     languages at different periods of the world, even such as they
     must have been ages before the building of the tower of Babel;
     which knowledge will, it is presumed, throw great light on the
     ancient history of the world, since men must, in the composition
     of words, have ever made allusion to things already known, and
     such as might serve to explain the words they made. Thus is it
     even in our own times, and thus has it ever been. I intend
     towards the end of this work to give numerous instances of how
     words were at first formed, and the various forms they bore at
     different times; so that no doubt may remain on any man's mind,
     either as to the truth of this, the most important part of my
     discovery, or as to the advantages which may, from our following
     it up, arise from it."

In pursuing this interesting subject, Mr Kavanagh shows the important part in etymology played
by the Latin verb esse.

     "Nothing of this has, however, been known. The greatest
     lexicographers have not even suspected that sagesse was for
     sage-esse (sage-étre,) so short-sighted is man without the
     light of science; then much less did they suspect that for to
     be, and to go there was, whilst languages were yet in their
     infancy, but one word. The learned, from their not knowing that
     sagesse is for sage-esse, must have lost discovering the
     etymology of a vast number of words in all languages. Thus, all
     the French words ending in esse, as, caresse, finesse, paresse,
     &c., have never been accounted for; and, in like manner, the
     etymology of all English words ending in ess and ness, as,
     caress, happiness, &c., has been unknown. But here the
     reader, as he has not yet seen how we are to discover in words
     their own definitions, may say, that though he can admit caress
     and caresse to be for cara or carus esse (to be dear,) and
     finesse to be for fin-esse (être fin,) he cannot so readily
     allow paresse and happiness to be accounted for after a
     similar manner, since paresse must hence become par-esse, and
     happiness, happin-esse, which words par and happin here
     offer no meaning. But a little farther on, he will know that
     par here signifies on the ground; so that paresse literally
     means on the ground to be, that is, to be lying down, or doing
     nothing. He will also see, that the termination ness has not
     the ridiculous meaning assigned it by the learned, namely, "the
     top or the foot of a hill" (I forget which,) but that it
     literally means the being (en-esse,) so that happiness was
     first en-esse-happy, (the being happy, the thing happy,) after
     which, en-esse became contracted to ness, and so fell behind
     happy, making happiness.

     "Here, not to perplex the reader's and my own mind, by the
     considering of too many things at once, I am really obliged to
     turn my view from the many important discoveries that rush upon
     me, all emanating out of this little word be, or go, (no
     matter which we call it,) in order merely to show how verbs in
     Latin have, from this single word, formed their endings."

By and by it appears that if we are so much indebted to the Latin for their verb esse, the
Latin is no less indebted to us for our verb am.

     "But I have not shown by what artifice this past time (ibam) of
     eo is formed. It is, we may see, composed of two words, ib
     and am; yet the latter word am has all the appearance of a
     present time or a future; as we may see it in eam, legam, and
     audiam. Then it is evidently to the word ib we are indebted
     for this word ibam having a past signification; and as there
     is now no such Latin word, we are led to believe that ib must
     be a contraction, and this at once leads us upon ibi, which
     means, then, or, at that time. Hence, ibam is a contraction
     of ibi am, there being only the letter i omitted. Now, as
     am is evidently a present time, and the same am we have in
     English, it means, "I existence;" so that when ibi is added to
     it, both words mean, "I existence then," or "at that time;" and
     it is in this manner that men, in the beginning, made a past
     time. If we now turn to the past time of sum (eram, eras,
     erat, &c.) we shall find that the same method has been adhered
     to. The am here is the am in ibam; and now we have to look
     to the word er by which it is preceded, in order to find its
     past signification. This brings us to era, or as it is now
     written in Latin, æra which, like ibi, refers also to a past
     time, meaning that epoch. Then eram, which might as well be
     written æram, is a contraction of æraam, there being, as
     before, but a single letter omitted, (the a,) and the meaning
     is as before, "I existence then, or at that epoch."

Certainly if ever there was a man who "existenced" at an era or epoch, or rather who was himself
the era, Mr Kavanagh may claim the distinction.

We are informed by the printer that our space is nearly out, and we must therefore draw to
a close. We cannot better fill up the limits allowed us, than by selecting a few examples of
our author's successful treatment of etymology. It will be seen that in the zoological department
of this subject he is particularly happy.

     "The third person plural, étoient, is a very curious word: it
     literally means the great lives--and there is for this a very
     wise reason. When this word first received this name, persons
     were not referred to, but the winds of heaven; and hence the
     propriety of the name great lives or great beings; and also
     of making this name signify afterwards persons or beings
     gone, since nothing can, to all appearance, be more gone than
     the winds that have passed by. When oient means the great
     lives, it is to be thus analysed: oi-iv-it; or thus,
     ii-iv-it; or thus, iv-iv-it. But when considered as meaning
     but a single idea, it may be indifferently written went or
     ivent. It is easy to perceive that ivent is no other than
     vent, the French of wind, the i having been dropped. Thus we
     discover the origin of the English word went: we see that it is
     the same as vent or wind."

     "As the French word souvent means, when analysed, all the
     wind (is-oii-vent), it would appear that men in the beginning
     of time received also the idea of frequency from the winds. But
     in a country rarely visited by them, this idea must have been
     borrowed from some other natural object. Thus the Latin word for
     often (sæepè) takes, when analysed, this form, is-æ-ip-é,
     which literally means, is the bees. Here the word bees is
     represented by ip-è, of which the meaning is bee, bee; but
     to avoid the repetition of the second bee, a pronoun, that is
     è, and which means life or being, has been put in its place.
     When it is remarked that this pronoun might as well be is or
     es as what it is, it will be admitted that sæpè might as well
     be written sæpes. I make this remark to show how slight the
     difference between apes, the Latin of bees and apè in
     is-apè, which means also the bees. Now the English word
     often becomes, when analysed, en-ov-it, of which the literal
     meaning is the sheep-sheep; the pronoun it serving here as in
     the last instance, and for the same reason, as a substitute for
     the second word sheep; but this it might as well be es or
     is. In Latin the word for sheep is ov is, which must have
     first been is ov; that is, the sheep: but when the is fell
     behind, it became ovis, and it has no other meaning than the
     one life (is-o-vie). Thus we perceive that the winds, bees,
     and sheep, have, in three different countries, given birth to
     the same idea."

Mr Kavanagh adds in a foot-note as to the word sheep--

     "This is for she-bay; that is, the female-bay, this animal being
     so called from its crying bay. Hence it would appear that the
     word sheep (she-bay) did not in the beginning apply equally to
     both genders, but that it was only in the feminine. When we
     recollect that the b and the p are frequently confounded, it
     can be easily admitted that, with our great love for contraction,
     sheep should be used instead of sheeb. An analysis of the
     French word for sheep (brebis) confirms what I have here stated
     with regard to this animal's being called after its bleat. When
     analysed, it is is-bre-be; of which the literal meaning is,
     the bray bay; that is, the cry bay or the breath bay, for
     the word breath (bray the) is no other than the bray which
     became breath from the article the falling behind bray. And
     this again is confirmed by an analysis of the word bleat, which
     makes it-BE-il-ea, or it bay il é, and means, the bay it
     is, that is, it is the cry of the sheep."

     "Mons," says Mr Kavanagh, "is the original of monster in
     English, of monstre in French, and monstrum in Latin. Then
     the literal meaning of these words is--monster, it is to be a
     mountain; est er literally means 'it is the thing,' and, of
     course, these two words first preceded mon, thus, est er mon
     (it is the thing mountain.) Monstre is for mon estre, this
     estre being the infinitive être, and the same as est re (it
     is the thing.) Monstrum is more modern in its form than either
     the English word monster, or the French word monstre, since
     it has in its composition the pronoun um, besides what these
     two words have. Then the Latins had monstre or monster before
     they had monstrum; and they must have said um monstre or um
     monster just as the French say now le monstre."

     "The word chien becomes when analysed (and the explanation of
     the alphabet will show how this happens) ic iv ien; or, as
     ien can be reduced to iv, we may say it is equal to ic iv
     iv. No matter which of these two forms we adopt, the analysis of
     chien will be still the same, since both are expressive of
     haste. Ic iv ien means the thing come or go, or life
     life. Thus if we contract iv ien to one word, we have vien,
     so that ic vien will mean the come; and this word is we know
     expressive of haste, since venir, as we have seen in the
     account given of oient, means the wind (ir ven). In like
     manner ic iv iv may mean the life life, which we know from
     the repetition of life must imply quickness. And hence it is
     that iv iv become when contracted, vive, that is, be alive.
     Now when we contract iv ien to vien, if we give to ic its
     primitive meaning, which is that of here, we shall, by allowing
     that vien in the beginning went before ic, have for the
     meaning of both words, come here (vien ic). Hence it is we
     still hear a dog called upon in English by Here! here! and in
     French by the word Ici with the dog's name attached to it. The
     English word dog is also, when analysed, expressive of haste,
     since it makes id eo ge or id-o-ge, which implies the thing
     go, or the go, go."

We conclude this brief, and, we fear, imperfect notice of so great a work, by suggesting for
the author's consideration, whether, in a revisal of his views, he might not bestow some attention
on one or two other languages than English and French. His attainments in these seem to be
of a superior order, and he seems also to have made considerable progress in the Latin rudiments.
We do not hold that Greek is essential, but we respectfully submit that the acquisition of
Anglo-Saxon, and some other older dialects of Europe, with which English is generally supposed
to have some connexion, might with advantage be attempted. Not that we imagine Mr Kavanagh's
views would then be changed or improved. The etymologist's eye, "in a fine frenzy rolling,"
may have intuitive perceptions of results such as no course of study could attain. But still
there is a vulgar prejudice to which we think it prudent to pay some deference, and which recommends
that, before writing on a subject, we should know something about it.

This, however, is a secondary matter, which we merely submit in passing. As it is, Mr Kavanagh
has taken his place as a philologist on an elevation which only a few can hope to attain. He
may be said to have done for language in general what has hitherto only been attempted in the
field of Celtic speculation; but it is no light matter to have followed and outstripped in
their course the illustrious men who have excelled in that more limited province. Henceforth
the name of Morgan Kavanagh will be entwined in the same undying wreath with those of Lachlan
Maclean and Sir William Betham.

SCRAMBLES IN MONMOUTHSHIRE.

A SEQUEL TO HOUSE-HUNTING IN WALES.

As we sat in the state of mind which has become characteristic of the gallant Widdrington--in
the large room at the Angel inn at Abergavenny, wondering when our pilgrimage among the hotels
would come to an end--a messenger of joyful tidings made his appearance in the person of our
friendly landlord. He had just remembered that a house about three miles off was occasionally
let--he thought it was unlet at that moment--it was the larger portion of a farm-house, originally
occupied by the 'squire, but now in the hands of a most respectable farmer. We would hear no
more; in ten minutes from this communication we were careering along in a one-horse car to
judge for ourselves--our imaginations filled with the same celestial visions that blest the
slumbers of the friar, in the song--

    "All night long of heaven I dream--
    But that is fat pullets and clouted cream"--

and before we had conjured up one-half the delights of a residence in a real farm-house, we
turned in at some iron gates, drove up a gravelled avenue, and stood at the door of a very
nice, comfortable-looking house, that in many advertisements would pass very well for "a quiet
and gentlemanly mansion, fit for a family of the first distinction." The rooms were of good
size--a beautiful lawn before the door--a well-filled garden behind--fields, hedges, trees
all round--and the river winding through brushwood a few hundred yards in front. It did not
take long to settle about terms. We were installed the very next day; and, after our ten days'
wanderings, it was no little satisfaction to find once more

    "All that the heart can dream of heaven
        --a home!"

Trunks were unpacked, books laid on the table, and, in spite of the season of the year, a roaring
fire went rushing up the chimney; and as we looked round, after candles were brought in, and
the novel skies and unaccustomed earth shut out, we could hardly believe we had gone through
such a succession of coaches and cars, boats, busses, and flies--Yorks, Westerns, Beauforts,
Angels, Swans, Lions, and other beasts of hospitable inclinations--but that we had long been
completely settled in our present quarters, while all these conveyances and hotels were the
phantasmata of a dreadful dream.

Even in the best furnished houses, in Aladdin's palace itself, new-comers always discover some
deficiency; and a few things were wanting in this to complete our felicity;--but Fate, which
had frowned from every sign-board on us for a long time, was now determined to make up for
her bad behaviour, and at that moment put into our hands a catalogue of household goods to
be sold the very next day, a few miles off, at Oakfield Lodge. The one-horse car was again
put in requisition, and our hostess--the kindest of women--accompanied us to the sale, and
by nodding at intervals to the auctioneer, procured all the articles required.

A sale is always a melancholy event. A house looks so miserable with all its carpets and chairs
and tables piled in useless heaps--the beds dismantled--and the rooms filled with a staring
crowd, handling every thing, and passing its vulgar judgment upon curtains and drapery that
the proprietor perhaps thought finer than those of a Grecian statue--on pier-glasses which
had reflected shapes of love or beauty--on the polish of mahogany that had been set in a roar
with wit,--a low, mean, savage-hearted crowd, bent on making bargains, and caring nothing for
the associations that make commonest furniture more valuable than cedar and ebony. The auction
on this occasion lasted nearly a week; and day after day the whole population of the neighbourhood
streamed to it like a fair. It was a handsome house, and the arrangement of the rooms spoke
audibly of taste and comfort. Selling the things that agreed together so well, to go into separate
situations--the library table to one town--the library chairs to another--seemed very like
selling a family of slaves to different masters; so, after a cursory glance at the dwelling,
we betook ourselves in solitary rumination to the banks of the river. And a quiet, steady,
calm, respectable kind of river the Usk is--not of the high aristocratic appearance of the
Wye, with wild outbursts of youthful petulance softened immediately into grace and elegance--but
a sedate individual, like a retired citizen, well to do in the world, and glad to jog on as
uninterruptedly as he can. The grounds of Oakfield slope down to the water--and beautiful grounds
they are--a line of rich meadows, shaded with stately trees, and divided into numerous portions
by invisible wires, stretches for several miles along the banks; and the abrupt elevation,
bounding this level sweep of grass and stream, affords an admirable site for two or three of
the moderate-sized and tasteful villas that seem the characteristics of this vicinity. On pursuing
our way through field and fell towards the suspension bridge over the river, we saw, emerging
from a wood, a figure that Isaac Walton would have adopted immediately for his son and heir.
He was a good-looking young man, but so piscatorially habilimented that there was no making
out his order or degree from his external sophistications. Round his hat were twined spare
lines; on his back, as Paris's quiver hung over his shoulder broad, was suspended a fish-basket;
an iron blade of a foot or so in length formed the end of his rod; and, as if he had been afraid
of the disciples of the gentle Rebecca, he bore an instrument something between a Highland
claymore and a reaping-hook; and as we looked on his accoutrements, we thought we would not
be a trout in such a neighbourhood on any consideration. Escape must be impossible for everything
with fins, from a thirty-pound salmon to a minnow. As we got near him, he handled his rod with
a skill and dexterity that left the young waterman far behind in the management of his oars;
and, after a whisk or too in the upper air, he deposited the hook and line, not on the ripple
in the middle of the Usk, but on the bough of an elm-tree.

"Here's a mess!" he said, with a half-despairing, half-angry look at the entanglement. He pulled,
and it seemed firmer at every tug. We approached to render what aid we could.

"Here's a mess!" again he said.

"You can scarcely call it a kettle of fish," was our sympathizing reply; and by the aid of
crooked sticks to hold the bough with, and the warlike weapon, which cut off some of the branches,
the hook was regained, the fly found uninjured, and with mutual good wishes we each took off
his several way.

There seems a good deal of amateur fishing in this country. In the course of our walk to the
bridge, we saw three or four individuals flogging the water with great energy, who had evidently
been fitted out in Bond Street, or who were perhaps taking out the value of the dresses in
which they had enacted piscators at the fancy ball; but their success, we are sorry to say,
was in no degree proportioned to the completeness of their preparations; and we suspect that
people with less adornments, and a much more scanty apparatus of flies and fish-baskets, are
the real discoverers of the treasures of the deep in the shape of trout and sewin. This latter
fish, the sewin, we may add in passing, is a luxury of which the Usk has great reason to boast;
for it is better than any thing we remember of the salmon kind, except the inimitable grilses
at Stirling.

On returning from the sale, with the carriage loaded with our purchases, we disposed our new
acquisitions in the different rooms, and laid ourselves out for a few weeks' enjoyment of the
blest retirement--friend to life's decline--which we had struggled so hard to gain, and which
now looked so satisfying in every point.

There is nothing to be compared, for comfort and beauty, to a dairy-farm. Arable lands are
detestable; and the windows of the house generally look into a horrible yard, where the present
agonies of the nose are made tolerable only by the hope of the rich crop to come. Here our
windows looked upon a sloping green field, bounded from the road by a good thick hedge, at
the distance of seventy or eighty yards. Beyond the road stretched fine luxuriant meadows,
each bordered with its fence of noble elms, down to the river; so that we had nothing to do
but cross the road, and wander among fields and hedgerows, miles and miles, either east or
west--always within hearing of the gentle voice of the Usk, and often in sight of the long,
still reaches of the river, that looked like beautiful lakes, fringed to the water side with
willows and flowering shrubs. Seventeen or eighteen cows were our fellow-lodgers at the farm;
and no sight is more fascinating, especially if you are fond of warm milk, than the long majestic
march, and musical invocations, of the milky mothers, as they come home at evening from the
pastures. Before three days were over, the names of all the cows were household words among
the young ones; their very voices were distinguished; and it was decided that the flower of
the flock, as to beauty, was Glo'ster, though some of us stoutly maintained that the whiteness
of Handsome entitled her to the prize. Then there were about thirty sheep; but with them (in
spite of frequent intercourse) we could only make out a general acquaintance--for we disbelieve
altogether in the possibility of distinguishing one of the flock from the others. It must be
the easiest thing in the world for a sheep to establish an alibi; and we are rather surprised
that the impossibility of detection does not encourage some of the bolder of the woolly-sided
heroes to some desperate outrage. There could be no identifying the culprit. But we saw no
instance of spirit among them, except a wicked attempt on the part of a young lamb to overthrow
authorities and powers; and we are sorry to say it was successful. Our friend the farmer discovered
the presence of some insects in the wool, or rather in the body, of one of the yearlings. He
proceeded, attended by us all, to extirpate this fatal enemy with his shears; and, having seized
the sufferer, put its head between his knees, and proceeded to lay bare the hiding-place of
the devouring grub. By some unlucky chance, the lamb got its head loose, pushed forward with
two or three tremendous jumps, and the operator was thrown on his back, his feet in the air,
and the shears held helplessly up in his discomfited hands. It created great consternation
among the spectators; and the two younger children, after looking on in speechless amazement,
thought, probably, that the assailant was a tiger in disguise, and sought safety ignominiously
in flight. The patient--the lamb, we mean--was again submitted to the shears, the grub extirpated,
and the cure, we believe, effected. The muscular power of a sheep is tremendous; and, if it
were to get its head between the ankles of the brazen Achilles, down would fall the glory of
Hyde Park. It is lucky they have not found out the secret of their strength, as they might
take such a dangerous attitude as materially to raise the price of mutton--a consummation by
no means to be wished.

In addition to the cows and sheep, and innumerable multitudes of chickens and turkeys, the
farm boasted a goodly array of horses. These would have made a poor figure at Newmarket, as
they were no kin to Godolphin or Eclipse--but in plough or harrow they looked respectable.
There was an old mare, and her daughter, and her daughter's daughter--Grannie, and Polly, and
Rose by name. There were also another mare and her foal; but our acquaintance was confined
to the three generations--or rather to the two--for Grannie was old and stupid; and as the
farmer sported a fine old-fashioned strong rough gig, we occasionally pressed Polly into the
service, put two or three children on footstools in the front, brandished a whip that had done
duty at the plough, and trotted off with the easy dignity of four miles an hour, and lionized
the whole neighbourhood. Amidst bumps, and thumps, and bursts of laughter at the unwieldy turn-out,
the excursion was pleasanter than if made in a chariot and four.

One day we started off to visit Ragland Castle; the distance was five or six miles, the day
beautiful, the mare in splendid order, and the whip ornamented with a new lash. Disregarding
the whinnyings and neighings with which the family received our steed as we passed the field
where they were all assembled to see us at the gate, from Grannie down to the foal, we applied
the thong vigorously, and chirruped, and whistled, and cried "Gee!" and "Hither!" and got fairly
into a trot; and an easy thing it is to maintain the pace after you have once got into it--in
fact, you find some difficulty in getting into a slower rate; and if by any chance we pulled
up altogether to see a view, Polly, who was no judge of the picturesque, was very apt to turn
round and run away home--if the word "run away" can be applied to a very determined walk, with
no regard whatever to bit and rein. A struggle of this sort was very apt to occur at Llansaintfraed
Lodge, meaning, we are told, in the original, the Church of St Bridget--and a pretty church
it is. It is in a park of moderate size, crowning a gentle elevation; a carriage-drive leads
to it, nicely gravelled, for it is the approach to Llansaintfraed House. The church, when we
saw it, was all festooned over the porch and a portion of the walls, with honeysuckle in full
show; roses and other flowers were planted all round, and a fine solid stone cross threw its
beautiful shadow over the graves. The church is very small and very old, and owes a part of
its good condition to the good fortune of having had the late Bishop of Llandaff for a parishioner.
Some years ago he occupied Llansaintfraed House, and rescued the parish from the disgrace of
a ruinous and neglected church. It is only to be wished that every parish had its manor occupied
so well--for a district with churches so shamefully fallen into disrepair we never saw. In
all the churchyards, for instance, the piety of our forefathers had raised a cross; and it
surely does not argue a man to be a Puseyite, if he thinks highly of such an emblem in such
a place; and in every instance, except this one of Llansaintfraed, the hand of the spoiler
hath been upon it. The cross, in every instance, is broken, and only a portion of the broken
pillar remaining. If the archdeacon disapproves of the cross, let it be removed altogether;
but if not, let it be repaired, and not left to affront the parishioners with the daily spectacle
of the rate-payers' meanness and the clergyman's neglect. So, having managed to get Polly's
head round again--for she had availed herself of our pause to whisk homeward--we proceed on
our way to Ragland. Welsh precisians, we perceive, call it Rhaglan--and probably attach a nobler
meaning to the name than can be forced out of the Saxon Rag and Land; but as novelists and
historians have agreed in calling it Ragland, we shall keep to the old spelling in spite of
sennachie and bard. A short way beyond Llansaintfraed is the handsome gate and beautiful park
of Clytha; the gate surmounted by a magnificent and highly ornamented Gothic arch, and the
mansion-house pure Grecian--an allegory, perhaps, of the gradual civilization of mankind, or
the process by which chivalrous knights are turned into Christian gentlemen. The house is modern,
and even the arch without much pretension to antiquity; but the family stretching far back
into the gloom of ages, and lineal ancestors of the antediluvian patriarchs. Since the Deluge,
however, they have restricted themselves to this part of Monmouthshire; and judging from the
number of Joneses--which is the great name in the neighbourhood--there seems no great chance
of the genealogical tree being in want of branches. There is nothing so strange in a new vicinity
as the different weight attached to family names. We have known districts where the word Smith
itself, even without the fictitious dignity of y in the middle and e at the end, was pronounced
with great veneration. Jones--elsewhere sacred to the comic muse--is of as potent syllable--unluckily
it has only one--along the banks of the Usk, as Scott or Douglas on the Nith and Yarrow. And
such is the effect of territorial or moral association, that we shall willingly withdraw an
objection we made to a line in the tragedy of our late friend J---- S----, where some one,
speaking of the patriot Pym--to eye and ear the most pithless and contemptible of cognomens--says,

    "There is a sound of thunder in the name."

We have no doubt there was a very distinct peal of heaven's dread artillery in the ear of that
bitter-hearted Roundhead every time he heard the magic word--Pym.

The family highest in mere antiquity in Monmouthshire, we are told, rejoices in the curious-looking
name of Progers. From them are descended the noble Beauforts, and even the Joneses of Clytha.
For hundreds of years, the Progerses had kept going down-hill; estate after estate had disappeared;
farm after farm took to flight; till, thirty or forty years ago, the blood of the Progerses
flowed in the veins of a poor gentleman with about two hundred a-year, a house in very bad
repair, and family pride that seemed to flourish in proportion as every thing else decayed.
Some tourist, in the course of his researches, encountered this Monmouthshire Marins sitting
among the ruins of his former state. The tourist was of a genealogical turn of mind, and the
Desdichado poured forth his hoarded boasts in his sympathizing ear. "Out of this house," he
said, pointing mechanically to the tottering walls of his family mansion, but metaphorically
alluding to the House of Progers, "came the Joneses of Clytha and Llanerth--out of this house
came the noble Somersets, now Dukes of Beaufort;" and so he went on, relating all the great
and powerful names that had owed their origin to his house. The tourist seems also to have
had some knowledge of architecture, for his answer to the catalogue was--"Well, sir, it's my
advice to you to come out of this house yourself as quickly as you can, or it will be down
upon you some of these days to a certainty."

On passing Clytha, we enter into a territory which might more justly be called Somersetshire
than the county the other side of the channel. The Dukes of Beaufort seem paramount wherever
you go; and in every town, and even in all the villages, there is sure to be a house of entertainment
with the royal portcullis on the signpost, and the name of the Beaufort Arms. The domains of
the family must be larger than half a dozen foreign principalities; and, from all we heard,
the conduct of the present noble Somerset is worthy of his high position--liberal, kind-hearted,
magnificent. One thing very pleasant to see was the little garden-ground taken from the road,
and attached to nice clean cottages, almost all the way. Little portions, about thirty feet
in depth, and considerable length, formed the wealth and ornament of the wayside dwellings.
They were all well filled with apple and other fruit-trees, and stocked with useful vegetables.
If this is the plan of enclosing commons, we wish we were in Parliament to give Lord Worsley
our aid; for a few perches, well hedged and carefully kept, are worth all the rights of pasture,
whether of cows, geese, or donkeys, that ever the poor possessed. Inside of this fringe of
rustic independencies, snug farm-houses rose up in all directions; but, with a perverseness
which seems characteristic of the whole county, and not limited to farm-houses, or even semi-genteel
villas, no sooner does a man fix on a nice situation--a rising knoll beside a river--a gentle
slope--or beautiful level green--no sooner does he rear a modest, or perhaps an ornamental,
mansion on the site, than his next care is to plant as thick round it as the trees will stand.
Elms, poplars, oaks, and larches, in a few years block up the view; and arbutus, rododendrons,
and enormous Portugal laurels, stand as an impenetrable screen before every window; so that
a house, which by its architecture ought to be an ornament to the neighbourhood, and should
command noble hills and rich valleys, might as well be a wigwam in an Indian forest. There
seems a greater tendency to rheumatism than romance among the inhabitants; and, by the by,
we observed on all the walls Welsh placards of Parr's pills. But in spite of the large letters,
and the populousness of the towns and villages where they were posted up, we did not see a
single individual reading the announcements. Query, can the Welsh peasantry read Welsh? or
is their book-learning limited to English, and their native tongue left to its oral freedom,
untrammeled with A, B, C? In addition to the usual fence of impenetrable trees and shrubs,
we noticed one pretty little dwelling, newly built, a mile or two from the village of Ragland,
tastefully ornamented with an immense heap of compost, which nearly barricaded the drawing-room
window. The inhabitant must have been a prodigious agriculturist; and probably preferred the
useful, but unromantic heap, to any other object in the view. We gave it the name of Guano Hall.

But where, all this while, is Ragland Castle, and when will the old mare jiggle joggle to the
end of our course? All eyes were kept in constant motion to catch a glimpse of the towers and
pinnacles, of which we felt sure we were now within a mile. Trees, trees, and nothing but trees,
with sometimes a glimpse of blue hills far off, and wreaths of smoke from cottages or farms
rising above the wilderness of leaves. At last, on a little elevation on the left hand, rising
solemnly, into the silent air, we caught sight of the old ruin, with great ponderous walls,
covered with ivy, and the sky seen through the open arches of its immense windows. A beautiful
mass of building, with such rents and fissures in it, that you wondered whether it was ever
entire; and the walls so thick and massive that you wondered again how it ever fell into decay.
We hobbled into the village, keeping the castle in view the whole time, got good quarters for
the mare at the first hostel we encountered, and proceeded up a country lane to spend an hour
or two among the ruins. The entrance is very fine, and might give rise to grand historic emotions
in people fond of the feudal and sublime; but in our instance such a train of thought would
have been impossible, for just inside of the majestic portal sat an old harper thrumming away
at the pathetic melody of Jenny Jones. He might as well have played Jim Crow at once, for romance
was put to flight, and we speedily got as far as we could from the descendant of Talessin.
The Duke of Beaufort has fitted up the ruins in a way that would have gratified the heart of
Mrs Radcliffe. Winding stairs lead, in the thickness of the walls, from tower to tower, and
the dim corridors and dizzying bartizans are made safe to the most timid of Cockneys by stout
wooden banisters, that enable you to stand as securely on a crumbling battlement as on the
top of Salisbury plain. We saw the courts and quadrangles, admired the splendid windows, and
only wondered at the lowness of the ceilings of some of the principal rooms, as from floor
to floor could not have been more than seven feet and a half. There were fountain courts without
a fountain; and chapel-yards with no chapel; why should we speak of kitchens, conjuring up
visions of roasted oxen, and butteries suggestive of hogsheads of home-brewed ale, when fire-places
are now choked up, and nothing is left of the buttery but a pile of broken stones? At first,
on going in, we dilated on the grand things we should do in the way of restoration if we were
the lord of the castle. First, we would fit it up exactly as it was in the brave days of old:
we should have new floors put in the audience-chamber; a roof on the great dining-hall; a stately
dais at the upper end, and get it from the hands of Pugin--the identical castle of the days
of Elizabeth. But, on closer inspection, we came to the conclusion that the natural condition
of such buildings is that of interesting remains. The rooms are low, the passages are dark,
the bed-rooms dog-kennels, the stairs ladders, the court-yards damp, the windows all turned
the wrong way, and, in short, the sixteenth century an excellent trimmer of popes and conqueror
of armadas, but a very bad architect.

In one of the court-yards was a flock of sheep nibbling at the grass that had been trodden
by the great marquis, as he walked down after his noble defence, to deliver his sword to the
Parliamentarian Fairfax. Has Cattermole or Charles Landseer never thought of the brave old
cavalier, at the age of eighty-five, surrendering his ancestral home,--surrounded by his sorrowing
garrison, and bearing himself with the true dignity of a heroic noble? Let them think of this,
and send us a proof print.

Leader of the sheep was the most beautiful ram that ever was seen since Aries was made a star.
All our common-place muttons at home sank into insignificance at once. The children patted
it, and fed it, and kissed it,--and to all their endearments it answered in the most bewitching
manner. It followed them like a dog, and rubbed its head against them, and it was soon very
evident that the greatest beauty of Ragland Castle, in certain eyes, was thickly cased in wool.
The ancient gardener told us it had once taken such a fancy to one of the visitors, that it
had followed her up a hundred and sixty steps to the very top of the signal tower,--and the
old lady was so pleased with it, she wished to take it home with her, though she lived two
or three hundred miles off. And certainly if ever a pet of such a size was allowable, it must
have been the gentle creature before us. But all things are deceitful--gentle-looking rams
among the number,--for on the discontinuance of our gifts, he waxed all of a sudden very wroth,
and favoured the youngest of the party with a butt, that made her not know whether she was
on her head or her heels--which is an extraordinary specimen of ignorance, for she was exactly
half-way between both. So, converting our admiration of the golden fleece into a kick, we raised
the astonished victim of his anger, and after a delightful stroll got into our gig again, and
in due time arrived at our comfortable home.

We have heard of people being a month at Cairo, and never going to see the Pyramids,--a circumstance
which does not give a very lofty idea of their activity. We determined to show those stay-at-homes
a good example, and not remain a week in Monmouthshire without visiting the Wye. Again the
old gig was put in requisition; but on this occasion we succeeded in borrowing a horse of a
neighbouring farmer, that trotted merrily up and down hill at a reasonable pace; and away we
started on one of the few warm days of this hyperborean summer, on our way to the town of Monmouth.
Great is the enjoyment of passing through a beautiful country on a fine clear day in June.
There was no dust--the sun was not too hot--the hedges were in full leaf, and no drawback to
our felicity except a preternatural dread of stone heaps by the roadside, on the part of our
steed, which: kept us on the alert to try and pull in the proper direction the moment he shied
to the side. All other objects in nature or art it passed with the equanimity of a sage; tilted
waggons with the wind flapping their canvass coverings with a sound and motion that would justify
a little tremor in the heart of Bucephalus--stagecoaches, loaded with men and luggage, rushing
down-hill at fifteen miles an hour, and apparently determined to force their way over our very
heads. Against all these it showed the most unflinching courage; but if it came to a heap of
stones, large or small, broken or entire, it lost its presence of mind in a moment, and would
have jumped for safety into the ditch at the other side of the road, if not restrained by a
pull at the rein, and a good cut of the whip scientifically applied. Even the milestone was
an object of great alarm; and as there were twelve of them on the way, and the cowardly creature
never by any chance missed seeing them, however deep they were sunk in hedges, or buried in
grassy banks, we never required to distinguish the figures on the stones, but calculated the
progress we made by the number of starts and struggles. After a dozen of these debates, which
created great amusement among the juveniles of the party, we arrived at the clean delightful
town of Monmouth--and here let us make amends for the disparaging mention of this place in
our former narrative of House-Hunting in Wales. The weather on that occasion was very bad,
and the inn we lunched at a very poor and uncomfortable one. When a person's principal acquaintance
with a town consists in his experience of its wet streets and tough beef steaks, it is no wonder
that his impressions are not of the most agreeable kind. On the present occasion we drove to
the Beaufort Arms, and, in imitation of the Marquis of Exeter, "we pulled at the bell with
a lordly air." The hostler and his curates rushed zealously from the further end of the yard,
and received us with astonishing command of face--not a grin was visible, even the waiters
stood with decorous solemnity, while child after child was lifted down, and all out of one
gig. They rather looked on with the pleased expression we have seen on the countenances of
a rural audience when Mr Ingilby, or other juggler, produced, out of some unaccountably prolific
hat, a stewing-pan, a salt cellar, a couple of eggs, a brood of chickens, and finally the maternal
hen. We ordered a cold dinner to be put into baskets, with a moderate accompaniment of bottles
and glasses--enquired if a boat was to be had to take us up the Wye--were recommended to a
certain barge-master of the name of Williams; and, in a very short space of time, were safely
stowed in a beautiful clipper, thirty feet long, with only nine inches draught of water, with
a gorgeous morning over our heads, luxurious cushions on the seats, a tug, in the shape of
a most strong, active fellow, pulling us by the towing-path, and, seated at the helm, the most
civil, the most polite, the most communicative, and the most talkative man that it ever was
our fortune to meet. He united in his own person a vast multiplicity of trades and offices.
He was innkeeper, boat-builder, boat-owner, pilot, turner, Bristol-trader, wood-merchant, coracle-maker,
fisherman, historian, and, above all, a warrior of the most tremendous courage. In all of these
capacities he had no rival; and as it was his own boat, his native town, his own river, and
we were merely his passengers, he had it all his own way. He stood up in the excitement of
his discourse, and talked without a moment's intermission--sometimes to us--sometimes to a
little boy he had brought on board to look after the baskets--sometimes to the man on the towing-path--and
sometimes to himself; but at all times there fell thick and fast about our ears the words of
Thomas Williams; and of all his words, Thomas Williams was the hero. As people get used to
the noise of a waterfall, at last we stood the perpetual sound without any inconvenience, and
carried on quiet conversation, or sank into silent admiration, as we floated past the bold
cliffs, or soft-wooded shores, of the sylvan Wye.

For the first mile or two from Monmouth, the hermit of the woods is nothing to boast of. The
banks are low; the water sluggish; and the scenery common-place. The beauties begin at a bend
of the river, where Mr Blakemore has built a large and comfortable-looking house. On a high,
conical hill above the mansion, there stands a lofty gazebo of open iron-work, commanding a
view of we don't remember how many counties; but before our cicerone had got half-way into
an account of each of them, with their capital towns, the names of the present mayors, and
the noble families he had supplied with cricket-bats, we had passed far away among the noble
scenery of the oak district; and our friend launched into a description of oak plantations
in general--the value of oaks per acre--the sum paid to Lord George for his estate, which was
bought by government fourteen years ago, the last time the duke was in power--

"What duke?"

An unlucky question, for it led into a disquisition o all dukes, ancient and modern, and an
encomium on the late Duke of Beaufort, as the best soldier that England had ever produced.
"He was a true soldier's friend, and flogged every soul that came on parade-ground with a dirty
shirt. I don't think there was ever seen such a militia regiment--there was a sight more flogging
in it than the reg'lars--so it was quite a comfort to some fellers that didn't like it, to
go into the line. I was in it myself; but I liked the duke, though he would have flogged me
as soon as look at me. And such dinners he gave us when our time was over--it was dreadful--six
of our corporals died of drinking in one month. He was certainly the greatest officer ever
I see. I was threatened myself with a thing they call delirium tremens, for he dined us in
tents for a fortnight at a time. It's a pity the French never landed; we would have licked
them like sacks. I hates a Frenchman, and hope to have a fling at 'em yet."

In the mean time we had glided further and further into the leafy recesses of the river. Such
banks are nowhere else to be seen--high perpendicular cliffs, broken off in all manner of fantastic
shapes; sometimes a great rock standing up bare, smooth, and majestic, like a vast tower of
some gigantic cathedral; sometimes a solitary column, higher and more massive than any of an
architect's designing, with its capital ornamented with self-sown shrubs, and its base washed
by the rippling water. Each of these called forth an anecdote from our guide, philosopher,
and friend--one was "the scene of the great fight between Characterus and the Romans. The Romans
licked 'em; for them Welsh was never no great shakes. I could lick any three ancient Britons
I ever saw myself--and they knows it. And, as to Characterus, he could be no great general,
or he never would have fought on that side of the water. He should have come across to the
other side, and he would have licked them Romans to a certainty."

We thought it was a pity Mr Williams, who, in spite of his contempt for the ancient Britons,
was as true a Welshman as ever ate his leek, had not been of the council of war of Caractacus--for
it was the scene of his great struggle we were passing. The ground still bears the name of
Slaughter Field, and was a fit altar on which to offer the last victims to national freedom.
The scenery all round it is of the noblest character--rock and wood, and the mountain chain
that they hoped had shut out the invader. The river bends round it, and enables you to keep
for a long time in view the plain where the battle was fought, and the rude remains of what
is considered to have been the Roman encampment. After an hour or two delightfully spent in
gliding under enormous cliffs, and winding among woods of all hues and sizes, hanging over
the precipice, and waving their branches almost down to the water's edge, we arrived at our
point of destination, a high rock called Simon's Yatt, which our agreeable companion described
as the finest thing in the world. On bringing to at the landing-place, we found we had nearly
a mile to walk up a steep road, newly escarped on the side of the hill; and setting ourselves
manfully to the effort, we began our march--Williams insisted on being the useful member of
the party. He offered, in the plenitude of his strength, to carry the shawls, to carry a couple
of children, to carry ourselves; he thought nothing of weights; he was used to hard labour;
he rather liked some difficult thing to do; and finally, nearly broke down under the burden
of one of the provision baskets; stopping every now and then to rest, and evidently over-tasked.
The day was very hot--the soil was a red ironstone--there was no shelter from the pervading
sun--and the ascent was on an inclination of at least one foot in six; at last, however, urged
on by a desire to enjoy the prospect--and the lunch--and also with a malicious intention, shared
by the whole party, to walk our companion to death, we surmounted all difficulties, wound round
a rocky eminence at the top, and suddenly found ourselves on a beautifully wooded platform,
six or seven hundred feet above the river, and in the enjoyment of the most surprising view
we ever saw. The river Wye takes a sharp turn round the foot of this enormous projection, not
only winding round the extremity, but actually flowing down on one side exactly as it flowed
up on the other, leaving Simon's Yatt as a sort of wedge inserted in its course; and presents
the extraordinary effect of the same river at the same moment running both north and south.
The summit of Simon's Yatt is not above fifty feet wide, and the descent on one side is perpendicular,
showing the river directly under your feet, and on the other is nearly precipitous, leaving
only room, between its base and the river, for a most picturesque assemblage of cottages called
the New-Weir village. Directly in front is the rich level champaign, containing the town of
Ross at a considerable distance, Goodrich Priory, and many other residences, from the feudal
Castle to the undated Grange. On the horizon-line you recognise Ledbury, the Malvern hills;
and the whole outline of the Black mountains. On the right, where the river careers along in
its backward course, you see the interminable foliage of the forest of Dean, and the rich valleys
of Glo'stershire. A very handsome house, about a mile down the river, attracted our attention.
"It's a reg'lar good billet," said Mr Williams, breaking off from some other piece of information
with which he was regaling the idle wind, for by this time we had acquired a power of not hearing
a word he said; "and it's a great shame, the gent as owns it never lives in it. He is a very
great man in foreign parts; and the Pope is his uncle. So, in course, he always lives in France
to be near his great relations." No cross-examination could shake his statement of this genealogical
curiosity; so we looked with increased interest on the mansion of the Pope's nephew, whose
principal merit by the by, in Mr William's eyes, was, that he had once furnished him with a
coracle. After gratifying our eyes for a long time with the surprising prospect, we found a
nice shady spot in a plantation at a little distance; spread shawls and cloaks upon the grass,
and were soon engaged in the mysteries of cold meat, hard-boiled eggs, an excellent salad,
and Guinness's porter--not to mention a beautiful gooseberry tart and sparkling ginger-beer.
Some feasts have been more splendid, and some perhaps more seasoned with eloquence and wisdom--but,
as the Vicar of Wakefield says of the united party of the Primroses and the Flamboroughs, "If
there was not much wit among the company, there was a great deal of laughter, and that did
just as well." So we laughed a good hour among the shady walks at Simon's Yatt--managed for
five whole minutes to stop our companion's conversation by filling his mouth with beef and
porter, distributed the fragments among a hungry and admiring population of young coal-heavers
who looked on--like a group starting out of Murillo's pictures--and with empty baskets and
joyous hearts set off on our homeward way. We glided at our own sweet will down the river,
exchanged the bark for our plethoric gig, and in due course of time, after twelve starts at
the twelve milestones, arrived in safety at our home.

By this time there were no symptoms left of deficient health and strength--the invalid would
have done for an honorary member of the club of fat people recorded in the Spectator; and we
looked, with disdain on the level territory on the banks of the Usk, and longed for hills to
climb, and walls to get over, and rocks to overcome, like knights-errant in search of adventures.
No walk was too great for us. We thought of challenging Captain Barclay to a match against
time, or of travelling through England as the Pedestrian Wonders. Walker, the twopenny postman,
would have had no chance against us. So, merely by way of practice, we started off one day,
with straw-hats and short summer frocks, and every other accompaniment of a professed pedestrian's
turn-out, and away we went on a pilgrimage to the churchyard of Llanvair Kilgiden. Through
rich fields of grass we sauntered--over stiles we leapt--through hedges we dashed--and occasionally
became prosaic enough to walk on for half a mile or so in a country lane, but generally we
preferred trespassing through a corn-field, and losing our way in searching for a short cut
across a plantation; and at last, after many hairbreadth 'scapes--after being terrified by
the bellowing of a bull, which turned out to be a sentimental cow giving vent to her agitated
feelings in what somebody calls a "gentle voice and low"--after nearly losing half the party
by the faithlessness of a plank that crossed a ditch that swarmed with an innumerable multitude
of tadpoles--after surpassing these, and many other perils, we at last got into the quiet road
that leads from Penty Goitre bridge down to the church of Llanvair--a large, solemn-looking
churchyard, ornamented with a goodly array of splendid yew-trees, and boasting, at some former
period, a majestic stone cross, now of course defaced, and the very square it stood upon moss-grown
and in ruins. The church itself is a plain quiet structure, but the sylvan beauty and peaceful
seclusion of the situation cannot be surpassed. We measured the great yews, and several of
them were twenty-four or twenty-five feet in circumference at four feet from the ground. There
were some graves enclosed in railings, and surrounded by evergreens and rose-trees; and the
sentiment of the place was not destroyed by a few nibbling sheep that cropped the short grass
on the graves where the rude forefathers of the hamlet slept. Can the sepulchral muses have
found their way to so remote a district as this? Have "afflictions sore" and "vain physicians"
obtained a sculptor among the headstones of this out-of-the-way place? We made a survey of
the inscriptions, as a very sure guide to the state of education among the peasantry, and are
compelled to confess that the schoolmaster had decidedly gone abroad. Even monuments of some
pretension to grandeur, with full-cheeked cherubs on the sides, and solid stones on the top,
offered no better specimens of spelling and composition that this:--

    "Laden with age my years they flew--
    The Lord is holy, just, and trew."

And on the slab, over a child of three years old, the following pithy observation:--

    "If life and care could death pervent,
    My days would not so soon been spent."

The sculptor, in many instances, (being tired probably of chiselling the same words over and
over,) had attempted an improvement by altering the arrangement of the lines,--an ingenious
device on his part, and a pleasing puzzle to the spectator:--

    "A tender husband and a father
    dear, a faithful friend lies
    buried hear, he was true and
    just in all his ways, he do
    deserve this worthey praise."

To the memory of Margaret, wife of John Hall, appeared some lines of a superior kind, with
which we never met elsewhere:--

    "You see around me richer neighbours lie
    As deep and still in this cold ground as I;
    From ease and plenty they were called away--
    Could I in lingering sickness wish to stay?
    When faith supports the body worn with pain,
    To live is nothing but to die is gain."

But as if to show that the muse had made a very flying visit to the hamlet, and had left the
mason, on the next occasion, to his own unassisted genius, the epitaph on two other members
of the same family runs thus:--

    "When in the world we did remain,
    Our latter days was grief and pain,
    But God above he thought it best
    To take we to a place of rest."

What can it be that induces people, who were probably as unpoetical as Audrey in their lives,
to wish the ornament of verse upon their tombstones? The effect must be almost ludicrous upon
those who were acquainted with the living individual, to hear "the long resounding march and
energy divine" of heroics and Alexandrines proceeding from him, now he is dead. Philosophy
put by the epitaph-writer in the mouths of a chaw-bacon--moral reflections on the loveliness
of virtue in the mouth of a poor-law overseer--and noble incitements to follow a good example
in the mouth of the bully or drunkard of the parish, must be far from useful to the surviving
generation. We therefore highly approve of the remarks of a sententious gentleman in this churchyard,
who seems to lay no great claim to extraordinary merit himself, but favours his co-parishioners
with very useful advice:--

    "Farewell, vain world, I've seen enough of thee,
    And now am careless what thou say'st of me,--
    Thy smiles I court not, nor thy frowns I fear;
    My cares are past; my head lies quiet here--
    What faults thou see'st in me take care to shun--
    Look well at home; enough there's to be done."

By the time we had transferred these and other inscriptions to our note-book, the party were
refreshed and ready for the homeward walk. We got over the same stiles and underwent the same
dangers as before, and happily completed our voyage of discovery to the beautiful churchyard
of Llanvair.

Day after day saw us all busy in ferreting out fine views or old manor-houses--the little Skirrid
or old Llangattock. Sometimes we crossed the river and wandered through the delicious lanes
of Llanover, or passed through Llanellen on our way to the Blorenge. As our courage and strength
expanded, we tried bolder flights--spent a day among the smoke and thunder of the Nantiglo
ironworks--with processions of thousands of men hurrying off amidst music, and shouts of the
most tremendous loudness, to a dinner at their club. Great, hard-featured, savage-looking fellows
they were, though in their holiday attire, and accompanied by one or two of the Bailey family--the
real iron kings of the neighbourhood; and a sight of their grim features and brawny arms gave
us a more vivid respect for the courage of Sir Thomas Philips, who drove them back from the
sack and massacre of Newport; and also a clearer idea of the almost justifiable hardihood of
the worshipful Mister Frost, in thinking that with ten or twelve thousand souls, made of fire,
and children of the mine, he could upset Old England, and be himself the legitimate successor
of King Coal.

Another day we spent among the ruins of Llantony Abbey, one of the finest remains of ecclesiastical
architecture in the kingdom. The person who owns the ground and the ruins, is a poet, a philosopher,
a scholar, so at least he wishes to be thought; but from the condition of the abbey, (a small
pot-house protruding its vulgar sign from one of the noble entrances, and a skittle-ground
being established in the main aisle--desolation, neglect, and dirtiness all around,) we formed
no very high estimate of the taste or feeling of Mr Walter Savage Landor. If he had no higher
object than merely to keep up the beauty of the building, you might expect that he would have
guarded it from the degradation of beer, tobacco, and British spirits. A man of a poetical
mind would have taken care to prevent such miserable associations as are supplied by a tap
and skittle-ground;--a person of loftier and purer sentiments would have shown more reverence
for the genius loci, and would have remembered that the walls were once vocal with Christian
prayers, and that what in other instances would be only negligence, is profanation here. But
probably the innkeeper pays his rent regularly, and we hope will be made the interlocutor in
an imaginary conversation with the last abbot of Llantony.

The object we had in coming into Wales was now entirely gained; and after ten weeks most happy
wanderings over hill and dale, and constantly breathing the clear fresh air of Monmouthshire,
we packed up bag and baggage, and returned to our home with a stock of health laid in for winter
use, which will keep us constantly in mind of the benefits we derived from change of scene.

NEAPOLITAN SKETCHES.

GARDEN OF THE VILLA REALE.

This garden--which, during the winter months, is the lounge of the English idler at Naples,
and then looks as flowerless and dingy as Kensington in an east wind--assumes a very different
appearance in spring. On the 7th of May, we, who had passed the winter at Rome, were at once
struck with the brilliancy of unusual blossoms, and the number of distinguished vegetable foreigners
who lifted their heads out of parterres, of the very existence of which in winter one is scarcely
conscious. The formal line of clipt Ilex that looks towards the sea, had changed its dusky
hue for a warmer tint; statues that had been doing sentinel all the winter without relief,
now seem to bend delighted over fragrant flower-beds, and enjoy the spring. Two high shrubs
in flower (Metresiglias) hoist from opposite beds, the one its white, the other its red banner.
Two of the Muses, the Speciosa and Paravisogna, or bread-tree plant, were raising their light
spiry trunks out of a corbeille taller than a life-guardsman. They want no hothouse in Naples:--would
you shade your face from the sun, an elsewhere exotic, the Brazilian Camarotta at your feet,
furnishes you with a screen. The white flocks of the Acacia verticillata are peeping out from
the ranks of those small triangular leaves, which are so singularly attached, without stalks,
by one of these angles to the stem. Amidst these pleasant perfumes camphor would be unwelcome,
but there is the laurel that yields it. Fennel has here become a tree, in which, like the mustard
of the Gospels, the fowls of the air may lodge; we are dwarfs beside it! Three kinds of the
soft, slimy Mallow of the Marsh are here so much WOODY and so tall, that we must pick their
flowers on tiptoe. The flattened disk of the sky-blue Nana arborea contrasts with the Betula
sanguinea, glowing deeply in the flower-bed of many lighter-coloured petals; the sweet-scented
African laurel grows against the long-leafed Babylonian willow, which susurrates droopingly
over your head, as if it were "by the waters of Babylon." The fountains, with their hydrophilous
tribes, add to the charm; and many a beautiful Launaria aquatica had already buoyed himself
up on his large cordate leaves on the surface of the tazza, and was filling his vegetable skin
with water. All these beauties and peculiarities, a mere scantling of the whole of the Villa
Reale, escape the lounger, and the nurserymaids, and children, and those of either sex who
have appointments to keep, or to look out for; and the soldiers, and the police, and the Neapolitan
nobility and gentry, and the pickpockets, and others:--to the nurseryman and botanist, things
not to be forgotten; and at present the weather is not too hot to interfere with their enjoyment.

SERVI DI PENA.

At Castel Nuovo, a penal settlement of Naples, we held conversation with a man sentenced to
the galleys, and wearing, accordingly, a yellow jacket; but yellow is not here, as at Leghorn,
the deepest dye. Here, it is red cloth and manacles that go together. We asked him his crime.
"Un piccolo omicidio." "A small homicide, provoked by a dispute for a single ducat! I quarrelled
with a man now in paradise. I killed him at one stab, but the devil possessed me to give him
another colpo di coltello after he had fallen; and as the judges asked me why I did this, and
I could not perfectly satisfy them, they concluded I was a sanguinary fellow, and gave me eighteen
years galleys--but, as you see, I have no chains; nor ever had--mai! mai!" and he extended
his hands in somewhat of the attitude of Raphael's Paul before Festus, to suit the action to
the word. "No! he was of a very different order of criminals to a boatful of birboni in red
jackets, all bad cases of homicide and robbery!"

"What do you call bad cases?"

"Why, I call it a bad case to kill a man for NOTHING."

"Well, but theft to any amount is not so bad as taking away life."

"Oh! as to that, the police are quite right! A decent and a devout man does not commit homicides
every day: but he that steals at all, steals always!" So that our culprit reasoned, like Paley,
on the tendency of crimes. It was his Chapter of the Silver Spoon, with a new exposition from
the mouth of a Galeote! And they pluck men at Cambridge for not getting up their Paley! Our
philosophical criminal seemed satisfied with his lot.

     "We are not so badly off after all: we walk out with an obliging
     escort, who let us do pretty much as we like; and all our work is
     confined to sweeping the courts in front of the king's palace. We
     are free of the castle, and allowed to conduct strangers over it,
     as in your case. Oh! for the fellows at St Stefano, it is quite
     another matter; as a part of their punishment, they are
     compelled to be idle!"

Our rascal was allowed a new coat once every eighteen months, with two pair of drawers and
as many shirts, and a penny a-day for pocket-money! These piccoli omicidii at home do not get
off so cheap, but stabbing is endemic at Naples. When a queen of Naples brings the Neapolitans
a new prince--great joy of course!--all the penal settlements except St Stefano receive three
years' mitigation of their sentence; but the crimes that consign to that island are senza grazia--the
rays of royal bounty do not reach those dark and solitary cells. The St Stefano convicts form
a body of three hundred doomed men, incorrigible housebreakers or systematic assassins. The
food of all classes of criminals is the same, whatever the offence, and consists of twenty-four
ounces of bread, with half-a-pint measure of beans and some oil--a basin of cabbage soup, without
meat, for dinner, and meat once in fourteen days: there are eight thousand out-of-doors convicts,
many of whom being under sentence for a less space than two years, work in their own clothes--which
is, of course, a considerable saving to government. Although all the galley-slave establishments
are full, no place swarms like Naples with so many meritorious candidates for the red and yellow
liveries of the state.

ST CARLO, &c.

St Carlo is, as the guide-books tell us, "a very fine theatre." What we particularly like,
is the absence of all side-lights round its boxes. Two hundred burners, arranged in three rows
round a small chandelier, give just light enough to set off the fine chastened white and gold,
and the one quiet fresco which embellishes the ceiling. A pit of vast size, divided into comfortable
sittings, six tiers of boxes, and an orchestra of great space, suited to the extraordinary
size of the house, secure a far less adulterated playhouse atmosphere than we are used to;
and so exempt from the ordinary inconveniences, that we were able to sit out the Semiramide,
even with Ronzi di Begnis, now old and out of keeping, for the heroine. Surely she never should
have been Semiramis, even in her palmy day! Actors and actresses will not know that words written
for them, scenery and dresses adapted for them, and attitudes invented for them, can never
make them the personages mentioned in the playbill. On returning home, we stood at our balcony
gazing on the lovely face of a true Naples night--a night beyond description!--the whole vault
of heaven lighted by one light: a full moon, like a subdued sunshine over earth and water.
A world of light, that shone on a world of darkness, tinging the air, gilding the mountain-tops,
and making the sea run like melted phosphorus. And what a silence abroad! not the perilous
cessation of sound which so often only anticipates the storm; nor the sultry stillness of an
exhausting noon; but a mighty and godlike display, as it were, of the first full moon after
creation shining on an entranced world!

POZZUOLI.

An amphitheatre is one of those few ruins that leave no problem to solve. Here we have a grey
antiquity without any mutilation of form, and merely spoliated of its benches. The patron saint
of Naples was, they say, imprisoned here. A little chapel ascertains the spot, but he does
no miracles on this arena. When we come to temples, we are always at a great loss for proprietors.
The very large one here is called of Jupiter Serapis. The remaining columns of this temple,
whatever it was, exhibit a very remarkable appearance. Three pillars, forty-two feet in height,
up to about twelve feet above their pedestals, have the surface of the marble as smooth as
any in the Forum; then comes a portion of nine or ten feet, of which the marble has been bored,
drilled in all directions, by that persevering bivalve the Lithodomus; the perforations are
so considerable, and go so deep, as to prove "the long-continued abode" of these animals within
the stone, and by consequence, as Mr Lyell observes, "a long-continued immersion of the columns
in the sea at some period recent, comparatively, with that of its erection." Indeed, there
is abundant evidence adduced in the fourth volume of his Geology to show, that all this ground
was at a no very distant period under the sea, like Monte Nuovo in its neighbourhood, and was
thrust out of the water to its present level. When the ground on which this temple stood, collapsed,
the bottom part of its columns was protected by "the rubbish of decayed buildings and strata
of turf;" the middle or perforated part was left exposed to the action of the sea bivalves
above alluded to; and the upper part, which was never under the water, remained smooth and
free from perforation. But these columns not only prove by internal evidence the general fact
of the ground on which they stand having been submerged--they also furnish an exact measure
of the degree to which it sunk; viz. twenty feet--i.e. the height where these perforations
terminate at present. You can only cross the floor of this building on stepping-stones; and
as you do so, you see shoals of small sea-fish darting about in the shallow water which occupies
its area, into which the sea has been admitted on purpose, to prevent the accumulation of the
stagnant water that had infected this particular spot with intense malaria.

BAIÆ.

We took a hot bath under the soi-disant villa of Lucullus. Steam, sulphur, and hot water, may
be had cheap any where along this coast. An awful place it was to enter naked, and be kept
in the dark, stifling, as we were, for some seconds which seemed minutes, till our guide returned
with a milord's dressing-gown, which he assured us had been hung up as a votive offering for
cured rheumatism. Being candidates ourselves for a similar benefit, we desired to be rubbed
down like milord, till aluminous perspiration stood thick upon us, the alum being deposited
from the walls and atmosphere of the place. We were soon obliged to beg for quarter. The milord,
whose dressing-gown we were possessed of, was so bad as to be obliged to be rubbed sitting;
but so powerful is the remedy, that after fifteen such sittings, he walked round the lake (two
miles), and went home in his carriage "guerito!" "Such baths!" that had cured he knew not how
many persons:--

    "Men who'd spent all upon physician's fees,
    Who'd never slept, nor had a moment's ease,
    Were now as roaches sound, and all as brisk as bees!"--CRABBE.

What with its hot water, sulphur, vapour, and alum, we too should have fancied Naples might
have been comparatively exempt from rheumatisms and skin diseases, in both of which it abounds.

LUCRINE AND AVERNUS LAKES.

From the sea and its inlet called the Lucrine Lake, we pass along a pleasant green lane, about
a mile long, which issues on Avernus, whose waters we find both limpid and clear; but are instructed
that two months later will change them to a dark-red colour, and that the neighbourhood will
then become very malarious and unsafe. A piece of semicircular wall on one side of the lake,
indicates the whereabouts of a temple of Proserpine, or Apollo, or any god or goddess you please.
We were so absurd as to pay a scudo to be taken through a vile tunnel, accompanied by two torch-bearers,
and two other dirty wretches, who often carry us pick-a-back through one black hole into another,
splashing us through dark pools, putting us down here and there as they pleased, picking us
up again, grinning like demons, and by dint of shaking their torches above, and disturbing
the water below, raising foul smells enough to intoxicate fifty Sybils. At length, half suffocated
by those classical delights, we cry Enough! enough! and beg to be put into our saddles again.
The Stufa di Nerone, a little further on the high-road, is another volcanic calidarium in full
activity, where you may boil eggs or scald yourself in a dark cavern. There you may deposit
your mattrass and yourself in any one of a store of berths wrought into that most unpicturesque
tufa, of which the exterior face constitutes the whole of the sea view of Baiæ. If ever there
were decorations in these caverns, they are gone; but there probably never were. Diana, Mercury,
Venus, and Apollo all claim brick tenements, called temples, in this little bay, all close
together on the seaside, and none having any claim at present either on the artist or the poet.

We quit the seaside at this spot, and reach the summit of the hill above, where there is more
torch-work and more disappointment for those that go a Sybil-seeking with the sixth book of
Virgil for a guide. Those who like it may also grope their way through Nero's prisons, and
descend into the Piscina Mirabilis, that vast pilastered cellar like an underground dissenting
chapel. They say the Roman fleet was supplied with water from this huge tank; but if this had
been the intention of its construction, why obstruct it with more pillars or supports of square
masonry than the roof absolutely required, without which incumbrances a reservoir of half its
size would have held more water,--and for water it was evidently meant? Ascending the hill
we see a man or two working away at a newly-discovered tomb, from which he told us he had removed
several skulls in perfect preservation, even to the teeth of both jaws, together with some
small sepulchral lamps and old copper coins. We dine on the summit of a low hill, immediately
opposite a cape better known to fame than the Cape of Good Hope--the promontory of Misenum,
with Procida and Ischia on our right, and Nisida with its white lazaretto, and Puteoli (Pozzuoli,)
where St Paul landed, on our left. We took to plant collecting after dinner, and were glad
to learn that we should find at Puzzuoli a celebrated botanist of the locality, who could declare
to us the unknown of all we should collect. On our return, therefore, the man of science was
fetched to look at our wild nose-gay and at us. We show him a specimen; he calls it by some
outlandish name; we tell him what we want is its Latin one. It is Latin, he says, which he
is actually speaking! We thought not. A crowd of fishermen and rustics are fast collecting
around us; we try him with another one of the grasses. "Questo è asparago," cries a bumpkin,
unasked, from behind. "Che asparagi?" says il mio Maestro, "è Pimpinella." We show him a Cytisus,
and he calls it a Campanula. Seeing that so great a difference exists between our friend and
Linnæus, we ask no further questions.

Tench and eels abound in Avernus, and coot and teal also blunder here occasionally, as if to
contradict Virgil and confute etymology--for Avernus is [Greek: aornos] (birdless,) and Latinised
as every one knows. However, few birds are to be found here. The Lucrine is now a mere salt-water
pond of small extent, affording the little sea fish, in rough weather, a sort of playground.
No Lucrine oysters now, though these dainties are of excellent quality at Naples, and might
have satisfied Montanus himself. As to the Mare Mortuum, it is another rank, unwholesome, unpicturesque
pond. We walked all round it, and have a right to say so; and, if we had done so twice after
sunset, might perchance have had to say more.

PROCIDA.

"Ego vel Prochytam præpono Suburræ," says Juvenal, and so would we if compelled to live in
that nasty St Giles's beyond the Coliseum; but as the "vel" seems strangely misapplied--for
the situation of Procida must always have been delightful--the poet's preference must be understood
as of a dull unlively place, with few inhabitants or resources, to a dense and dangerous population.
Baiæ itself is not three miles from Procida; but the Roman Baiæ was thronged with good society,
and this little island was doubtless then as unpeopled as it is now populous. Procida is about
three-fourths of an hour's fair rowing from Miniseolæ, on the Baian side; but you may run your
boat over on a fine day in half an hour. As you approach the houses, you discern the not unpicturesque
frontage of a little fishing town; but all is as revolting within as fair without. Something
of the Greek or Albanese costume is still preserved here, and they offer to dress up one of
their families in full parure for our further satisfaction, if we will pay them. The view from
the leads of the fort (under which the galley-slaves are confined) is fine indeed! Ischia and
Vesuvius, and the whole stretch of the bay, and Sorrento, and the promontory of Minerva. Procida
builds good enough trading vessels. We saw two in the harbour of Baiæ, as we rowed back on
a delicious evening towards sunset; they were going on a first voyage, bound for our London
docks;--and à propos of the London docks, all this country is, as it always was, rich in productive
vineyards and bad wine. Every hill once gave its own epithet to wines celebrated in longs and
shorts of immortal celebrity, whereas the land round Rome could never have been viniferous.
You may still drink Falernian, if so minded, on its native seat of St Agatha. The wine of Gaurus
has not deserted Monte Babaro, and Lachryma, though not classical, has its own celebrity; and
the islands of Ischia and Procida also produce a strong, heating, white wine. But there is
not any wine, from the Alps to Messina, to be compared to those of the Garonne, and the Rhine,
or the Moselle. The Barbarians subdued by the Roman legions have long had it all their own
way, not only in this, but in every other good thing except sunshine; but the vine, growing
as it grows, suspended as it is suspended, and wreathed round the hills of Italy, is still
the plant which secures the loudest admiration of the foreigner. "The vine of Italy for ever!"--so
we join the chorus of all travellers, and say-"till it lies bruised, bleeding, fermenting in
the vat! then commend us to the Bacchus of lands far nearer home." And here, feeling ourselves
called upon for a song, we will sing one.

        A VINTAGE SONG.

    ABRIDGED FROM BÉRANGER.

    "Amidst the Celtic hordes of old
    That gather'd round his wayworn band,
    The cumbrous booty to behold
    Brought from Ausonia's sunny land,
    Thus Brennus spake--'This lance of mine
    Bears Rome's best gift--Behold--the Vine!
        Plant, plant the Vine, to whose fair reign belong
        The arts of Peace, and all the realms of Song!

    "'They told us of its wondrous juice;
    We fought to taste it, and have won!
    Now o'er your hills new wealth diffuse
    And cherish well the warrior's boon.
        Plant, plant the Vine, &c.

    "'Nor for ourselves alone we tore
    That stem away; your ships shall bear
    The freighted joy to many a shore,
    And spread the unknown gladness there.
        Plant, plant the Vine, &c.'

    "He ended, and in face of all,
    While deep in earth he strikes the lance
    And plants the shoot--unconscious Gaul
    Prepares the world's vast vineyard--France!"[9]

THE PALACE OF CASERTA.

About thirteen miles from Naples is one of the finest kingly residences in Europe--so say all
the guide-books, and they are right. Vanvitelli is the very Michael Angelo of palace-rearing!
Its shape is a parallelogram approaching to a square. Counting mezzanines, it has six stories
besides the attics; and is pierced with no less than 1700 windows. Its stair, the very perfection
of that sort of construction, is vast in all its dimensions, and so very easy, that you look
down from its summit admiring, with untried lungs, the enormous height you have reached. It
starts double from the ground, and twenty persons might ascent either branch abreast, and meet
one another at the spot where it begins to return upon itself; so that the noble octagonal
landing above finds itself just over the starting-place below. From this post four large windows
command four spacious courts, and the simple construction of this gigantic edifice stands unveiled.
You now begin your journey through vast, lofty, magnificently marbled, and very ill-furnished
apartments, of which, before you have completed the half circuit of a single floor, you are
heartily tired, for, beyond the architecture, there is nothing to see. The commonest broker's
shop would furnish better pictures. Boar-hunts of course, to represent how Neapolitan kings
kill boars at Portici, and shoot wild-ducks on the Lago di Fusina. There is also an ample historical
fresco on the ceiling of the antechamber to the throne-room, on which Murat had caused to be
represented some notable charge where he proved victorious; but after he was shot, Ferdinand,
with great taste, judgment, and good feeling, erased, interpolated, and altered the picture
into a harmless battle of Trojans against Greeks, or some such thing! The palace has two theatres
and a chapel; and you must change your conductor four times if you would be led through the
whole. For this enormous edifice boasts of only twelve servants, at eleven dollars a-month
from the privy purse. Caserta, which, even in its present imperfect state, has cost 7,000,000
scudi, is raised amidst a swarm of paupers, who are permitted to besiege the stranger, and
impede his progress, with an importunity such as could be shown by none but men on the eve
of famishing. We never saw such a population of beggars as those which infest the walls of
this most sumptuous palace and its park--but the park is a park indeed! It may have something
of the formality of Versailles or Chantilly; but its leading features are essentially English;
its thickets and copses abound in hares and pheasants. The ilex attains twice the height we
remember to have seen it reach elsewhere. Its islands and fishponds, its kitchen and flower-gardens,
put one in mind of a first-rate English country-seat. The ornamental water is fetched, by an
aqueduct worthy of old Rome, from mountains seven miles off, first emptying its whole charge
over a high ledge of rock, making a waterfall (which you see from the drawing-room window)
over a series of steps and terraces, which get wider as they get lower, till they terminate
in a superb basin within a quarter of a mile of the palace, where the water makes its last
bound, and forms a broad lake fit for Diana and her nymphs, amidst woods fit for Actaeon and
his dogs. Of course we asked to be conducted to these stone terraces, over which the dash of
the mountain stream into the lake is effected: but as we passed the latter, we were surprised
by our guide approaching the water, and, beginning to whistle, he begs us to observe the water
begins to be troubled at a distance, and the more he whistles the more the commotion increases.
Ten, twenty, and in half a second hundreds of immense fish come trooping up, and, undeterred
by our presence, approach as near as they dare to the surface of the water where he stands;
they swim backwards and forwards, and lash the water with their tails. What is the matter?
Why! they come to be fed! and such is the ferocious impatience of this aquatic menagerie, that
we long to assist in quelling it; and so we dip our hand into the man's basket of frogs, and
drop a few right over the swarm--and now the water is bubbling and lathering with the workings
and plungings of these mad fish; and so large are they, so strong, so numerous, that, all angler
as we are, we really felt unpleasantly, nor would we, after what we saw, have trusted hand
or foot in the domain of such shark-like rapacity. They consume five basketsful of frogs and
minnows a-day. Except that of the Caserta beggars, we never saw any thing like the hunger of
the Caserta fish.

THE SILK MANUFACTORY.

The silk manufactory at Caserta is worth a visit. The labour is chiefly accomplished by the
hand, as is all labour in Naples. Silk is wound off into skeins by a mill turned by the artificial
falls of the aqueduct. At one extremity you see the unpromising cocoons; at the other the most
rare and beautiful velvets and gros de Naples. The locality of this manufactory is delightful,
and the old queen preferred its comforts and cheerfulness to the solitary grandeur of the palace
in the plain. In place of occupying and paying the poor round his palace to make silk and satins
for his court and the Pope, the present king spends his money in gunpowder and soldiering.
They accuse him of having less compassion for the misfortunes of the poor than even his father
Francis, or his grandfather Ferdinand of blessed memory. The view from this spot of the huge
palace itself, with Vesuvius smoking to our right, and Capri shining before it, is one of those
not to be forgotten.

THE SNAKE TAMER.

Behold the old snake-finder with his sack! "Ola! vecchio, che cosa avete pigliato quest' oggi?"
was a question put from our one-horse cart, till then going at a great rate through the village
of Somma, to a little old man, with a humpback, a sack, and a large shallow box. He was dressed
in a queer costume, had a wolf's brush in his hat, and remarkably tight-fitting leather leggings.
"Tre! fra altri una vipera meschia." "Oh! oh! aspetta," added we--we must see the viper. Upon
which there was a broad grin all round the circle; but the driver stopped, and down we got.
The old man, seeing our intention to be serious, got a chair for us from a cottage, and putting
his box on his knee, looked knowing, and thus began.

"Gentlemen, you have all seen a viper, basta feroce--a reptile that every one runs from except
me, and those who know, as I do, how to humour him. I have a viper in this box whom I have
so perfectly tamed, that he lives with two others, and never quarrels with them. I will open
the box, and, as you will see, they will all lie as if they were dead, until I notice one,
when he will put up his head that I may take him out."

He opened the box, where lay coiled, and perfectly still, a spotted viper, an immense black
snake, and one very light and silvery like an eel.

"Here's my family," said the old man; and catching the viper round the middle, brought him
out, while the others wriggled a little, as if in expectation of being caressed in their turn.
"This animal, signor, is not so bad in his temper as you have been told. It is only when he
is making love that he is poisonous--to all but his females; but in this, gentlemen, he is
scarcely worse than many of yourselves, whom it is not safe then to approach."

"Bravo, bravo, vecchaccio! ancora! Go it again!" sounds every where from the circle collected
round the old snake-charmer.

"If you tread upon his tail, gentlemen, what can you expect but a bite? Would not you bite
if you had your tails trodden on?"

The viper now raised his head, and darted it out, with about half of his body behind it, at
the crowd. The two nearest peasants fell back. The viper, missing his spring, turns round to
bite the hand that is holding him, but no sooner touches it, than off it glides from the horny
finger, wriggling both head and tail at a great rate.

"He has been warmed by my hand, sirs, and wants to escape! Ingrato! Come, I have something
to tell you that these gentlemen must not hear!"

And he opened his month, and the viper thrust his head between his lips; upon which the old
man closes them and makes believe to mumble the horrid head, the body appearing violently convulsed,
as if it really suffered violence.

"He has lost his teeth," said one, "and can't bite."

"Sicuro," said another, and began to yawn.

"No," said the old man, "his teeth are all in his head. You doubt it, do you? See here, then."

And catching him by the head, and drawing down his lower jaw, having forced the mouth to its
full stretch, he drew the red surface of his upper-jaw smartly over the back of his own hand
two or three times, so as to bring blood from six or seven orifices. Then, drying the blood
off his hand, he returns his viper to the box, and asks a baiocco for the exhibition.

"What's the price of your viper?" ask we.

"Two carlines, excellenza."

"Here, tie him up for me in my handkerchief." Which was accordingly done, and we popped him
into spirits of wine, as a souvenir of Monte Somma, and of the old man whom we saw handling him.

"Does he gain a livelihood by his trade?" we enquired.

"He teaches people how to catch serpents; and by familiarizing them with the danger, they work
in greater comfort, and are not afraid of going over any part of Monte Somma, which, as it
abounds in vipers and snakes, still deters the unpractised a little. Besides, they like to
see the snake caught and exhibited, and every body gives him something."

A MEDITATION.

    Some hidden disappointment clings
      To all of man--to all his schemes,
    And life has little fair it brings,
      Save idle dreams.

    The peace that may be ours to-day,
      Scarce heed we, looking for the morrow;
    The slighted moments steal away,
      And then comes sorrow.

    The light of promise that may glow
      Where life shines fair in bud or bloom,
    Ere fruit hath ripen'd forth to show,
      Is quench'd in gloom.

    The rapture softest blush imparts,
      Dies with the bloom that fades away,
    And glory from the wave departs
      At close of day.

    Where we have garner'd up our hearts,
      And fixed our earnest love and trust,
    The very life-blood thence departs,
      And all is dust.

    Then, Nature, let us turn to thee;
      For in thy countless changes thou
    Still bearest immortality
      Upon they brow.

    Thy seasons, in their endless round
      Of sunshine, tempest, calm or blight,
    Yet leave thee like an empress crown'd
      With jewels bright.

    Thy very storms are life to thee,
      'Tis but a sleep thy seeming death;
    We see thee wake in flower and tree
      At spring's soft breath.

    We view the ruin of our youth,
      Decay's wan trace on all we cherish;
    But thou, in thine unfailing truth,
      Canst never perish.

                              J.D.

ON THE OLD YEAR.

    With mournful tone I hear thee say,
      "Alas, another year hath sped!"
    As if within that circlet lay
      Life's garland dead.

    Vain thought! Thy measure is not Time's;
      Not thus yields life each glowing hue;
    Fair fruit may fall--the tendril climbs,
      And clasps anew.

    Time hath mute landmarks of his own;
      They are not such as man may raise;
    Not his the rudely number'd stone
      On life's broad ways.

    The record measuring his speed
      Is but a shadow softer spread--
    A browner leaf--a broken reed,
      Or mildew shed.

    And if his footfall crush the flower,
      How sweet the spicy perfume springs!
    His mildew stain upon the tower
      A glory brings.

    Then let the murmuring voice be still,
      The heart hold fast its treasure bright;
    The hearth glows warm when sunbeams chill;
      Life hath no night.

                                  J.D.

CORALI.

    Soft-brow'd, majestic Corali!
      Thou like a memory serene
    Seemest to me--or melody,
      Or moonlight scene.

    With thee life in soft plumage glides,
      As on the ruffled lake the swan,
    Whose downy breast the struggle hides
      That speeds it on.

    In thy fair presence wakes no care;
      Harsh discords into music melt;
    Thy harmony alone is there--
      Alone is felt.

    The heart, unsway'd by hope or dread,
      Safe haven'd in a clime of balm,
    Nor chain'd in ice, nor tempest-sped,
      Lies rock'd in calm.

                                 J.D.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF FRANK ABNEY HASTINGS.

    "Man wrongs and time avenges, and my name
    May form a monument not all obscure."

The success of the Greek insurrection against the Turks, is the event in contemporary history
concerning which it is most difficult to form a precise and correct idea. Causes and effects
seem, to the ordinary observer, to be utterly disproportionate. Its progress set the calculations
of statesmen at defiance; and while congresses, ambassadors, and protocols, were attempting
to fetter it in one direction, it generally advanced with increased speed in some other, totally
unexpected.

It was very natural that the Greeks should take up arms to emancipate themselves from Turkish
oppression, the moment a favourable opportunity presented itself; but certainly, few foreigners
conceived that the time they selected afforded them much chance of success. Kolocotroni, however,
appears to have understood the internal condition of the Ottoman empire rather better than
Metternich. The unwarlike habits of the majority of the Greek population, contrasted with the
military feelings of the Turks, and with the numbers and valour of the Ottoman armies, rendered
their cause desperate for some years, even in the opinion of their most enthusiastic friends.
The whole progress of the Revolution was filled with anomalous occurrences; and the wisdom
of the statesman, and the skill of the warrior, were constantly set at nought by events, the
causes of which have still been too generally overlooked by the professional politicians of
all nations who mix in the affairs of Greece.

Unquestionably, therefore, there exists much in the condition of the Greek nation, and in the
character of the people, which has been completely misunderstood by foreigners. Nor do we entertain
any hope of seeing the affairs of Greece placed on a better footing, until the Greeks themselves
collect and publish detailed information concerning the statistics and the administration of
the kingdom.

Hitherto, not a single report of any value has been published on any branch of the public service;
so that the foreign ministers at Athens are, from absolute want of materials, compelled to
confine their active exertions for the good of Greece to recommending King Otho to choose particular
individuals, devoted to the English, French, or Russian party, as the case may be, to the office
of cabinet ministers. Not even an army list has yet been published in Greece, though the Hellenic
kingdom is in the twelfth year of its existence. But as the publication of an army list would
put some restraint on political jobbing and ministerial patronage, each minister leaves it
to be done by his successor.

The fate of all the foreigners who have taken an active part in the Greek Revolution is worthy
of notice. Many persons of high, and of deservedly high, reputation embarked in the cause,
yet not one of the number added to his previous fame by his exploits. Although the names of
Byron, Cochrane, and Capo d'Istrias appear in the annals of Greece, it is doubtful whether
their actions in the country exercised any direct influence on the course of events. We think
we may safely assert that they did not, and that these distinguished and able men were all
carried along by the current of events. To us, it appears that the fate of Greece would have
undergone no change if these great men had changed places;--if Capo d'Istrias had enacted the
part of lord high admiral, Lord Cochrane that of commander-in-chief at Missolonghi, and Lord
Byron, in his day, that of president of the Greek republic, things would have been little better
and no worse. The ambassadors with their treaties and protocols at London, and the admirals
with their untoward event at Navarin, were almost as unfortunate as all other volunteers in
the Greek cause. The ambassadors were occupied for years in trying to hinder the Greek state
from attaining the form it ultimately assumed; and, in spite of the battle of Navarin, Ibrahim
Pasha carried away from the Peloponnesus an immense number of Greek prisoners, in the very
fleet the allied admirals supposed they had destroyed.

The insignificance of individual exertions in this truly national Revolution, has been equally
remarkable among the Greeks themselves. Indeed it has been made a capital charge against them
by strangers, that no man of distinguished talent has arisen to direct the destinies of the
country. Perhaps there is a worse feature than this prominent in the Greek community, and this
is a disposition to calumniate whatever little merit may exist. Here again, however, we cannot
refrain from remarking, that a singular resemblance may be traced between the conduct of the
strangers in Greece, and the Greeks themselves. A vice so predominant must doubtless be nourished
by some inherent defect in the constitution of society in Greece, rather than in the characters
of individuals.

If no Greek has succeeded in gaining a glorious pre-eminence by the Revolution, we must recollect
that the foreigners who have visited the country have contrived to bury there all the fame
they brought with them. Singular too as it may appear, a love of quarrelling and a passion
for calumny have been found to be as decidedly characteristic of the foreigners in Greece,
as of the natives. The Philhellenes were notoriously a most insubordinate body; the English
in Greece have never been able to live together in amity and concord; the three European powers
who signed a treaty to aid and protect Greece, have rarely been able to agree on the means
of carrying their good intentions into execution on a systematic plan. The corps diplomatique
has often astounded the Greeks by its feuds and dissensions. The Bavarians made their sojourn
in the country one prolonged querelle d'Allemande. Even the American missionaries at Athens
have not escaped severe attacks of the universal epidemic, and during the paroxysms of the
malady have made all Greece spectators of their quarrels.[10]

The single exception which so often occurs to confirm the general ruler, exists in this case
as in so many others. One European officer rendered very important services to Greece, and
so conducted himself as to acquire the respect and esteem of every party in that singularly
factious land. This officer was Frank Abney Hastings; but he always made it his rule of life
to act, amidst the license and anarchy of society in Greece, precisely as he would have felt
himself called upon to act in similar circumstances, could they have occurred, in England.
We shall now attempt to erect a humble monument to his memory. The pages of Maga have frequently
rescued much that is good from the shadow of oblivion; and, in this instance, we hope that
a short account of the actions of the best of the Philhellenes will not only do honour to his
memory, but will likewise throw some new light on the history of the Greek Revolution.

Frank Abney Hastings was the younger son of the late Lieutenant-general Sir Charles Hastings,
Bart., and his elder brother Sir Charles Abney Hastings inherited the baronetcy. The late Sir
Charles Hastings was colonel of the 12th foot, and knight grand cross of the Guelphic order;
he possessed a large fortune, and he was well known for his singularity at Carlton House, and
in the fashionable circles of London, about the beginning of the present century. The present
baronet, Sir Charles Abney Hastings, entered the army when young, but retired after having
served some time in the Mediterranean. Frank was born on the 14th of February 1794, and was
placed in the navy when about eleven years old. Hardly six months after he became a midshipman,
he was present at the battle of Trafalgar on board the Neptune. An explosion of powder between
the decks of the Neptune during the action, by which several men were killed and wounded, early
directed his attention to the service of artillery on board ship; and the science of gunnery
became his favourite study. Hastings was subsequently serving in the Seahorse when that frigate
engaged two Turkish men-of-war, and captured one of them, which proved to be a frigate much
larger than herself. During his career of service, he visited every quarter of the globe.

After having served nearly fifteen years, he was sent to the West Indies in command of the
Kangaroo, a vessel destined for the surveying service, carrying out his commission as commander.
On arriving in the harbour of Port-Royal, in Jamaica, he was supposed to have brought the Kangaroo
to an anchor in an improper manner. The flag-captain of the admiral's ship, then in the harbour
considered this offence so extraordinary, that he took a still more extraordinary manner of
expressing his dissatisfaction. We cannot give our readers a better idea of the circumstance
than by transcribing the words of a letter which Hastings, on his return to England, addressed
to Lord Melville, then first lord of the Admiralty. "He thought proper to hail me in a voice
that rang through the whole of Port-Royal, saying--'You have overlayed our anchor--you ought
to be ashamed of yourself--you damned lubber, you--who are you?'" Of course such an insult,
both personal and professional, could never be overlooked. Hastings, however, feeling the importance
of any step he might take to his future reputation, both as a sailor and a gentleman, waited
until he had delivered up the command of the Kangaroo to the officer appointed to conduct the
survey; and having received his commission as commander, and being ready to return to England
on half-pay, he sent a challenge to the flag-captain who had thus insulted him.

The admiral on the station was, by some circumstance, informed of this challenge, and on his
representation of the affair to the Admiralty, Hastings was dismissed the service. We shall
conclude our mention of this most unfortunate business by quoting a few more words from the
letter of Hastings to Lord Melville, which we have already alluded to:--"I have served fourteen
years under various captains, and on almost all stations. I have certainly seen greater errors
committed before; yet I never was witness to such language used to the commander of a British
vessel bearing a pendant." "Your lordship may, perhaps, find officers that will submit to such
language, but I do not envy them their dearly purchased rank; and God forbid that the British
navy should have no better supporters of its character than such spiritless creatures." These
words express the deep attachment he always felt to the service.

    "Alas! how bitter is his country's curse
    To him who for that country would expire."

Hastings now found that all his hopes of advancement at home were blasted, and, without any
loss of time, he determined to qualify himself for foreign service. He flattered himself that
he might acquire a reputation abroad, which would one day obtain for him the restoration of
his rank in the navy in a distinguished manner. He resided in France for some time, in order
to acquire a thorough knowledge of the French language, which, by dint of close application,
he soon spoke and wrote with ease and correctness.

About three years after his dismissal from the navy, the position of the Greeks induced him
to believe that in Greece he should find an opportunity of putting in practice several plans
for the improvement of maritime warfare which he had long meditated. He embarked at Marseilles
on the 12th of March 1822, and arrived at Hydra on the 3d of April. Here he was kindly received
by the two brothers Jakomaki and Manoli Tombazis, and their acquaintance soon ripened into
friendship.

The Greek fleet was preparing to sail from Hydra to encounter the Turks, and Hastings was anxious
to accompany it, in order to witness the manner in which the Greeks and Turks conducted their
naval warfare. As it was necessary for a stranger to receive an authorization from the general
government before embarking in the fleet, Hastings repaired to Corinth, which was then the
seat of the executive power. The hostility displayed to the Greek cause by Sir Thomas Maitland,
the lord high commissioner in the Ionian islands, had rendered the British name exceedingly
unpopular at this time, in Greece, and Alexander Maurocordatos, (called at that period Prince
Maurocordatos,) who was president of the Greek Republic, partook of the popular prejudice against
Englishmen.

On arriving at Corinth Hastings met with a very cool reception, and spies were placed to watch
his conduct; for though the president had made no progress in organizing the naval, military,
or financial administration, he had already established a numerous and active secret police.
For several days Hastings was unable to obtain an audience of Maurocordatos; but an American,
Mr Jarvis, (afterwards a lieutenant-general in the Greek service,) to whom Hastings had given
a passage from Marseilles, was received with great attention. Jarvis, as well as Hastings,
observed "that the police was very severe and vigilant in Corinth;" and on the 15th of April
he wrote thus:--"I paid my respects to the prince, and was invited to come in the evening.
I had a long conversation with him, and he was particularly kind to me, and liked me the more,
as he said, for being an American. He told me many of the bad actions of the English, and plainly
told me he and the rest took my friend and companion for a spy. I then answered what was necessary--approved
his dislike of the English and his foresight, but showed him that he was in the wrong in this
case."

These suspicions being mentioned to Hastings, he immediately addressed a letter to the president,
demanding that his offer of serving on board the fleet should be either definitely refused
or accepted by the Greek government. He, at the same time, pointed out to Maurocordatos the
absurdity of suspecting him as a spy. We translate his own letter, which is in French. "I am
suspected by your excellency of being an English spy. Considering the conduct of the British
government to Greece, I expected to meet with some prejudice against the English among the
ignorant; but I own I was not prepared to find this illiberality among men of rank and education.
If the English government required a spy in Greece, it would not address itself to a person
of my condition. I am the younger son of Sir Charles Hastings, Baronet, a general in the army,
and who was educated in his youth with the Marquis of Hastings, governor-general of India;
so that I could surely find a more lucrative, less dangerous, and more respectable employment
in India than that of a spy in Greece. I quitted England because I considered the government
treated me with injustice, in arbitrarily dismissing me from the navy, after more than fourteen
years of active service, for an affair of honour, while I was on half-pay." This letter obtained
for Hastings an audience of the president, and his services were at length accepted.

On the 3d of May 1822, the Greek fleet began to get under weigh at Hydra, and Hastings embarked
as a volunteer on board the Themistocles, a corvette belonging to the brothers Tombazis. The
scene presented by the Hydriote ships hauling out of harbour was calculated to depress the
hopes of the most sanguine friend of Greece. Those of the crew who chose to come on board did
so; the rest remained on shore, and came off as it suited their convenience. When it became
necessary to make sail, the men loosed the sails, but shortly found that no sheets were rove,
and the bow-lines bent to the bunt line cringles. At last sheets were rove. But as the ships
were getting clear of the harbour, a squall came on; then every man on board shouted to take
in sail; but there were no clue-lines bent, and the men were obliged to go out on the jib-boom
to haul down the sail by hand. The same thing occurred with the topgallant sails. The crews,
however, were gradually collected; things assumed some slight appearance of order; and after
this singular exhibition of anarchy and confusion, the fleet bore up for Psara.

It is needless to describe the scenes of misery Hastings witnessed when the fleet arrived at
Scio, as the particulars of the frightful manner in which that island had been devastated by
the Turks are generally known. The war was at this period carried on with unexampled barbarity,
both by the Greeks and Turks. As an illustration of the manner in which naval warfare had been
previously conducted in the Levant, we shall quote the account given by an English sailor of
the conduct of the Russo-Greek privateers in 1788. The modern atrocities were not perpetrated
on so large a scale, and the officers rarely countenanced them, but still it would be too invidious
to cite single examples. We shall therefore copy a short extract from Davidson's narrative
of a cruise on board one of the vessels connected with the expedition of the famous Greek privateer
and pirate, Lambro. "The prize had on board eighty-five hands, which we took on board us, and
confined in the hold until next day; when they were called up one by one, and had their heads
cut off in the same manner as we cut off ducks' heads at home, and we then threw them overboard.
This was the first time we were obliged to take it by turns to put them to death. The English,
when called upon, at first refused it; but when the captain told them they were cowards, and
that he could not believe they were Englishmen, they went and did the same as the rest; and
afterwards were even worse than the others, for they always were first when such work was going
on. Sometimes we had three or four in a day to put to death for each man's share." Things are
certainly better than this in our times; but the statesmen who have constituted the kingdom
of Greece should recollect, that these occurrences took place in the dominions of King Otho
on the 21st of May 1789, and that similar scenes, though not on so extensive a scale, were
witnessed by Hastings in the month of May 1822.

The Greek naval force at this period consisted entirely of merchant ships, fitted out at the
private expense of their owners. These vessels were generally commanded either by the owners
or their near relations, whose whole fortune frequently consisted in the vessel they were to
lead into action. It is not surprising that under such circumstances many brave men, who would
willingly have exposed their lives, felt some hesitation in risking their property. The Greek
ships, previously to the breaking out of the Revolution, had been navigated by crews interested
in certain fixed proportions in the profits of the cargo. As the proprietor of the ship, the
captain, and the sailors formed a kind of joint-stock company, they were in the habit of deliberating
together on the measures to be adopted, and in discussing the destination of the vessel. The
disorder and want of discipline naturally arising from such habits, were greatly increased
by the practice which was introduced at the breaking out of the Revolution, of always paying
the sailors their wages in advance. In a fleet so composed and manned, Hastings soon perceived
that there was no hope of executing any of his projects for the improvement of naval artillery.
After fitting locks and sights to the guns in the Themistocles, and building up a furnace for
heating shot in her hold, he found that all his arrangements were of no avail. Some order was
absolutely necessary, but he discovered by experience that there was nothing the Albanians
of Hydra held in so much honour as disorder.

The naval campaign of 1822 was signalized by the successful attack of the Greek fire-ships
on the fleet of the Capitan Pasha off Scio. Kanaris, who conducted his vessel with admirable
courage and presence of mind, set fire to the ship bearing the pasha's flag, which was completely
destroyed. Pepinos, who commanded the Hydriot fire-ship, was not so fortunate in his attack
on the ship of the Reala Bey. His vessel was disengaged, and though it drifted on board another
line-of-battle ship, the Turks succeeded in extinguishing the flames in both.

Hastings, having failed to persuade the Greeks to fit out one or two gun-boats with long guns
of large calibre and furnaces for heating shot, became disgusted with the service on board
the fleet, which was confined to sending marauding parties to the coast of Asia Minor, where
the plunder was oftener taken from the poor Greek villagers than from their Ottoman masters.
These expeditions were conducted with unparalleled disorder, and without any plan. Before quitting
the fleet, Hastings made a last attempt to inspire the councils of the admiral with some of
his own energy. He waited on the celebrated Admiral Miaoulis with a plan for capturing a Turkish
frigate then anchored at Tenedos. This interview between these two remarkable men is of great
importance for the appreciation of their respective characters and views at this period. In
order to convey to our readers as vividly as possible the impression which it produced on the
mind of Hastings, we shall transcribe the account of it in his own words. It must be recollected,
in justification of Miaoulis, that he had not then had time to avail himself of the enlarged
experience he subsequently acquired in his capacity of admiral of the Greek fleet. He was then
little more than a judicious and courageous captain of a merchant brig, just elected by the
suffrage of his equals to lead them. As one of the owners of the ships hired by government,
his attention was naturally rather directed to the destruction than to the capture of the large
Turkish men-of-war; and it is probable that he considered the total want of discipline among
the Hydriotes as presenting insuperable difficulties to the execution of the plan, and as likely
to render the Turkish frigate, even if captured, utterly useless to the Greeks, who would doubtless
have allowed her to rot in port.

Shortly after this disagreeable affair, Hastings had an opportunity of acquiring considerable
personal reputation among the Hydriote sailors, by saving the corvette of Tombazis in circumstances
of great danger. In pursuing some Turkish sakolevas off the north of Mytilene, they ran in
near Cape Baba, and made for the shore under a cliff, where a considerable number of armed
men soon collected from the neighbouring town. The captain and crew of the Themistocles, eager
for prizes, pursued them; when the ship was suddenly becalmed within gun-shot of a battery
at the town, which opened a well-directed fire on the corvette. In getting from under the fire
of the battery, a baffling wind and strong current drove the ship within sixty yards of the
high rocky cliff where the Turkish soldiers were posted. These troops opened a sharp but ill-directed
fire of musketry on the deck of the Themistocles; and on this occasion the total want of order,
and the disrespect habitually shown to the officers, had very nearly caused the loss of the
vessel. The whole crew sought shelter from the Turkish fire under the bulwarks, and no one
could be induced to obey the orders which every one issued. A single man would spring forward
for a few seconds, at intervals, to execute the most necessary manoeuvre. Hastings was the
only person on deck who remained silently watching the ship slowly drifting towards the rocks.
He was fortunately the first to perceive the change in the direction of a light breeze which
sprang up, and by immediately springing forward on the bowsprit, he succeeded in getting the
ship's head round. Her sails soon filled, and she moved out of her awkward position. As upwards
of two hundred and fifty Turks were assembled on the rocks above, and fresh men were arriving
every moment, there can be no doubt that in a short time the enemy would have brought a piece
of artillery to bear on the Themistocles from a position inaccessible to her fire; so that,
even if she had escaped going on shore on the rocks, her destruction seemed inevitable, had
she remained an hour within gun-shot of the cliff. Thus, the finest vessel in the Greek fleet
was in imminent danger of being lost, through the carelessness and obstinacy of the captain,
who, though repeatedly entreated by Hastings to have a small anchor constantly in readiness,
could never be induced to take this necessary precaution.

On this occasion, however, both the captain and the crew of the Themistocles did Hastings ample
justice. Though they had refused to avail themselves of his skill, and neglected his advice,
they now showed no jealousy in acknowledging his gallant conduct, and he became a permanent
favourite with the crew ever after this exploit. Though he treated all with great reserve and
coldness, as a means of insuring respect, there was not a man on board that was not always
ready to do him any service. Indeed the candid and hearty way in which they acknowledged the
courage of Hastings, and blamed their own conduct in allowing a stranger to expose his life
in so dangerous a manner to save them, afforded unquestionable proof that so much real generosity
was inseparable from courage, and that, with proper discipline and good officers, the sailors
of the Greek fleet would have had few superiors.

When the naval campaign was concluded, Hastings joined the troops engaged in the siege of Nauplia.
That force was exposed to the greatest danger by the irruption of a large Turkish army into
the Morea, commanded by Dramali Pasha. While engaged in defending the little fort of Bourdzi
in the port of Nauplia, and under the guns of that fortress, he became intimately acquainted
with Mr Hane, a young artillery officer, who subsequently served under his orders with great
distinction. At this time Hastings raised a company of fifty men, whom he armed and equipped
at his own expense. But as his actions on shore are not immediately connected with the great
results of his services to Greece, we shall confine this sketch exclusively to the share he
took in the naval warfare. He served the campaign of 1823 in Crete, as commander of the artillery;
but a violent fever compelling him to quit that island in autumn, he found, on his return to
Hydra, that Lord Byron had arrived at Cephalonia.

It was of great importance to the Greek cause that the services of Lord Byron should be usefully
directed, and it was equally necessary that the funds collected by the Greek committee in London
should be expended in the way most likely to be of permanent advantage to Greece. The moment
appeared suitable for one who, like Hastings, had acquired some experience by active service,
both with the fleet and army, to offer his advice. He accordingly drew up a project for the
construction and armament of a steam-vessel, which he recommended as the most effectual mode
of advancing the Greek cause, by giving the fleet a decided superiority over the Turks at sea.
It appeared to Hastings that it was only by the introduction of a well-disciplined naval force,
directly dependent on the central government, that order could be introduced into the administration,
as well as a superiority secured over the enemy. It is not necessary to enter into all the
professional details of this memoir, as we shall have occasion to state the manner in which
Hastings carried his views into execution a few years later. Its conclusion was to recommend
Lord Byron to direct his attention to the purchase or construction of a steam-vessel, armed
with heavy guns, and fitted up for the use of hot shot and shells as its ordinary projectiles.

Neither Lord Byron nor Colonel Stanhope, the agent of the Greek committee, seem to have appreciated
the military science of Hastings, and the plan met with little support from either.

The Greek government shortly after this obtained its first loan in England; and, during the
summer of 1824, Hastings endeavoured to impress its members with the necessity of rendering
the national cause not entirely dependent on the disorderly and tumultuous merchant marine,
which it was compelled to hire at an exorbitant price. It is needless to record all the difficulties
and opposition he met with from a government consisting in part of shipowners, eager to obtain
a share of the loan as hire for their ships. These ships were in some danger of rotting in
harbour, in case a national navy should be formed. The loan, however, appeared inexhaustible;
and in the autumn of 1824, Hastings returned to England, with a promise that the Greek government
would lose no time in instructing their deputies in London to procure a steam-vessel to be
armed under his inspection, and of which he was promised the command. This promise was soon
forgotten; a number of favourable accidents deluded the members of the Greek government into
the belief that their deliverance from the Turkish yoke was already achieved, and they began
to neglect the dictates of common prudence. The Greek committee in London emulated the example
of the Greek government at Nauplia; and in place of acting according to the suggestions of
common sense and common honesty, that body engaged in a number of tortuous transactions, ending
in the concoction of a dish called "the Greek pie." Ibrahim Pasha awakened the heroes at Nauplia
from their dreams, and Cobbett disturbed the reveries of the sages in London.

The success which attended Ibrahim Pasha on his landing in the Peloponnesus in 1825, and the
improvement displayed by the Turks in their naval operations, seriously alarmed the Greeks.
The advice of Hastings occurred to their remembrance; but, even then, it required the active
exertions of two judicious friends of Greece in London to induce the Greek deputies to take
the necessary measures for fitting out a steamer. Hastings, in a letter addressed to the Greeks,
which he wrote on his return to Greece, declared distinctly that the gratitude of the Greek
nation was due to the Right Honourable Edward Ellice and to Sir John Hobhouse, and not to the
Greek deputies in London, if the steam-vessel he commanded proved of any service to the cause.

Greece was then in a desperate condition. Navarin was taken by Ibrahim Pasha, the Romeliat
army was completely defeated, and the Egyptians encamped in the centre of the Peloponnesus,
after routing every body of troops which attempted to arrest their progress. The Turkish and
Egyptian fleets kept the sea in spite of the gallant attacks of Miaoulis; and the partial successes
of the Greeks were more honourable to their courage than injurious to the real strength of
their enemies. In the mean time, the Greek government had lost all power of commanding either
respect or obedience at home, in consequence of the civil wars which prevailed previously to
the arrival of the Egyptians, and the intrigues of Maurocordatos and Kolettis to obtain the
sole direction of affairs.

At this conjuncture, Lord Cochrane's name excited universal attention in England, and he was
engaged by the Greek deputies, and some friends of the cause, to enter the Greek service. He
received for his services £37,000 sterling, in cash; and an additional sum of £20,000 was paid
into the hands of Sir Francis Burdett, to be given to Lord Cochrane whenever the independence
of Greece should be secured.

This transaction happened in the month of August 1825; but in the month of March, a steam-vessel,
called the Perseverance, of about four hundred tons, had already been ordered; and Hastings
had been named to command her, and received authority to arm her with sixty-eight pounders,
according to the plan he had submitted to the Greek government. When Lord Cochrane was appointed
commander-in-chief of the Greek fleet, five more steam-vessels were ordered to be built; but
it may be observed, that only two of these ever reached Greece. The equipment of the Perseverance
was then kept back, in order that the whole squadron might sail together under the auspices
of Lord Cochrane. The news of the taking of Missolonghi by the Turks at last threw the friends
of Greece into such a state of alarm, and the outcry against the dilatory manner in which the
steam-boat expedition in the Thames was fitting out, became so violent over all Europe, that
the Perseverance was hastily completed, and allowed to sail alone.

After a series of difficulties and disappointments, which it required all the extraordinary
perseverance and energy of Hastings to overcome, he was hurried away from Deptford on the twenty-sixth
of May 1826, though the engine of the Perseverance was evidently in a very defective state.
The boiler burst in the Mediterranean; and the ship was detained at Cagliari, reconstructing
a boiler, until the twenty-eighth of August. She arrived in Greece too late to be of any use
in the naval campaign of that year. The winter was spent in aiding the operations of the army,
which was endeavouring to raise the siege of Athens.

The Karteria, which was the name of the Perseverance in the Greek navy, was armed on the principle
which Hastings had laid down as necessary to place the Greeks with small vessels on some degree
of equality with the line-of-battle ships and large frigates of the Turks: namely, that of
using projectiles more destructive than the shot of the enemy. These projectiles were hot shot
and shells, instead of the cold round-shot of the Turks. We have already mentioned that the
Karteria was armed with sixty-eight pounders. Of these she mounted eight; four were carronades
of the government pattern, and four were guns of a new form, cast after a model prepared by
Hastings himself. These guns were seven feet four inches long in the bore, and weighed fifty-eight
hundred-weight. They had the form of carronades in every thing but the addition of trunnions
to mount them like long guns; these trunnions, however, were, contrary to the usual practice,
placed so that their centre intersected a line through the centre of the bore of the gun. They
were mounted on ten-inch howitzer carriages, which answered the purpose admirably. The shells
used were generally strapped to wooden bottoms; but they were more than once employed without
any precaution, except that of putting them in the gun with the fusees towards the muzzle.
The hot shot were heated in the engine fires, and were brought on deck by two men in a machine
resembling a double coal-box, which was easily tilted up at the muzzle of the gun to be loaded.

Hastings fired about eighteen thousand shells from the Karteria in the years 1826 and 1827,
with a miscellaneous crew composed of Englishmen, Swedes, and Greeks, and never had a single
accident from explosion. As a very small number of hot shot can be heated at once, and as an
iron ball of eight inches diameter loses its spherical form if kept for any length of time
red hot, this projectile could only be used in particular circumstances. It happened more than
once on board the Karteria, that shot which had remained for some time in the engine fires,
had so lost their form as not to enter the muzzle of the guns. With regard to the great danger
which is supposed to attend the use of hot shot on board ships, Hastings thus states his opinion
in a "Memoir on the use of Shells, Hot Shot, and Carcass Shells, from ship artillery:"[11]
"I have continually used hot shot with perfect safety; my people having become so familiar
with them, that they employ them with as little apprehension as if using cold shot."

We shall now give a regular account of the career of active service in which Hastings was engaged,
as captain of the Greek steam-frigate Karteria, extracted in part from his own official reports
and private letters, and drawn in part from the testimony of eyewitnesses of all his actions.

In February 1827, Captain Hastings was ordered by the Greek government to co-operate with the
troops under General Gordon, destined to relieve Athens. Captain Hastings, sailing from Egina,
passed round the island of Salamis, and entering the western strait between it and Megara,
arrived, unobserved by the Turks, in the bay where the battle of Salamis was fought--now called
the port of Ambelaki. This was the first time the passage had ever been attempted by a modern
man-of-war. During the presidency of Count Capo-d'Istrias, Sir Edmund Lyons carried H.M.S.
Blonde through the same passage.

The troops under General Gordon were landed in the night, and they occupied and fortified the
hill of Munychia without any loss of time. It was then resolved to drive the Turks from a monastery
at the Piræus, in which they kept a garrison to command the port. The troops were ordered to
attack the building on the land side, and Hastings entered the Piræus to bombard it from the
sea. A practicable breach was soon made; but the Greek troops, though supported by the fire
of a couple of field-pieces, were completely defeated in their feeble attempts to storm this
monastery. The Turks, on the other hand, displayed the greatest activity; and the Seraskier
Kutayhi Pasha, who commanded the army besieging Athens, soon arrived with a powerful escort
of cavalry, and bringing with him two long five-inch howitzers with shells, boasting that with
these he would sink the Karteria. As the object of the Greek attack had completely failed,
and the troops had retired, the Karteria quitted the port just as the Turks opened their fire
on her.

A few days after this, the Turks, having defeated a division of the Greek army destined to
make a diversion from the plain of Eleusis, attempted to carry the camp of General Gordon by
storm. Captain Hastings now entered the Piræus again, even at the risk of exposing the Karteria
to the Turkish shells; as he saw that by his powerful fire of grape he could prevent the Turks
from forming in any force to attack the most vulnerable part of the camp. The fire of the Karteria
soon produced its effect; but it drew all the attention of the Pasha to the vessel, as he perceived
it was vain to persist in attacking the troops until he compelled the steamer to quit the Piræus.
Five guns directed their fire against her, and though three were either dismounted by her fire,
or rendered useless by their carriages breaking, still two elongated five-inch howitzers being
placed between the monastery and an adjoining tower, which covered them from the fire of the
Karteria, contrived to keep up a well-supported fire. The effect produced by the shells from
the Turkish guns was soon considerable, though several of those which struck the Karteria did
not explode. One, however, fixed in the carriage of a long sixty-eight pounder, and exploded
there, though fortunately without injuring either Captain Hane, the artillery-officer engaged
in pointing the gun, or any of the men who were working it. Another exploded in the Karteria's
counter, and tore out the planking of two streaks for a length of six feet, and started out
the planking from the two adjacent streaks. As this shell struck the vessel on the water's
edge, a ship built in the ordinary manner would have been sunk by this explosion of about nine
ounces of powder; but the Karteria was in no danger, as she was built with her timbers close
and caulked together. She was also constructed with two solid bulkheads enclosing the engine-room,
caulked and lined, so as to be water-tight; consequently, any one of her compartments might
have filled with water from a shot-hole without her sinking. The attack of the Turks on the
Greek camp having been repulsed, nothing remained for Hastings but to retreat from his dangerous
position in the Piræus as speedily as possible. This, however, he did not effect without loss;
all his boats were shot through, and he had to encounter a severe fire of musketry from the
Turks stationed on each side, as he moved through the pillars at the entrance of the port.

In the month of March an expedition was planned by General Heideck, who was afterwards one
of the members of the unhappy regency which misgoverned Greece during the minority of King
Otho. The object of this expedition was to destroy the magazines of provisions and stores which
the Turks possessed at Oropos, and, by occupying their lines of communication with Negropont,
to compel them to raise the siege of Athens. This was the only feasible method by which the
Greeks could ever have hoped to defeat the Turks; but when the execution of it was proposed,
it always met with some opposition. When it was at last undertaken by a foreigner, the operation
was conducted in so weak and desultory a manner, as to end in complete disgrace.

The naval force which accompanied General Heideck was unusually powerful, as he was then the
acknowledged agent of the King of Bavaria. It consisted of the frigate Hellas of sixty-four
guns, with the flag of Admiral Miaoulis, the Karteria, and some smaller vessels as transports.
The Greek vessels arrived before Oropos in the afternoon, and as the Hellas was compelled to
anchor about a mile from the Turkish camp, Captain Hastings immediately steamed into the port.
He captured two transports laden with grain and flour, which had just arrived from Negropont;
and having anchored within two hundred yards of the Turkish batteries, he opened on them a
fire, which in a short time dismounted every gun which they could bring to bear on his ship.
A carcass-shell lodging in the fascines of which the principal battery was constructed, soon
enveloped the whole in flames--the powder-magazine exploded, and the carriages of the guns
were rendered useless.

At this moment the Greek troops, of whom one hundred and fifty were on board the Karteria,
loudly demanded to be led to attack the camp; and an officer from General Heideck, who had
remained on board the Hellas, was expected every moment to place himself at their head. No
orders, however, arrived. Hastings remained all night in the port, and it was not until dawn
next morning that the troops were landed. The Turks, in the mean time, had been more active;
they had also received considerable reinforcements; the day was consumed without General Heideck
going on shore, and a large body of Turkish cavalry making its appearance in the afternoon,
he issued orders to re-embark the troops, and sailed back to Egina.

The public attention was suddenly diverted from this disgraceful exhibition of European military
science by the arrival of Lord Cochrane in Greece. He came, however, in an English yacht, which
had been purchased to expedite his departure, but unaccompanied by a single one of the five
steamers which were still unfinished in the Thames. His lordship was soon after appointed lord
high admiral of Greece; General Church was at the same time named generalissimo of the land
forces; and both officers directed all their attention to raising the siege of Athens, which
Kutayhi continued to attack with the greatest constancy.

Captain Hastings was now detached for the first time with an independent naval command. The
Turks drew their supplies for carrying on the siege of Athens from a great distance in their
rear, as all the provinces of Greece were in a state of desolation. This circumstance exposed
their lines of communication, both by land and sea, to be attacked by the Greeks in many different
points. Volo was one of the principal depots at which the supplies transmitted from Thessalonica
and Constantinople were secured; and from this station they were forwarded by the channel of
Euboea to the fortress of Negropont, and thence to Oropos. From Oropos these supplies were
transported on horses and mules to the camp of the Pasha at Patissia, near Athens. Captain
Hastings was now charged with the duty of cutting off the communications of the Turks between
Volo and Oropos, and instructed to use every exertion to capture their transports and destroy
their magazines. For this purpose he sailed from Poros with a small squadron, consisting of
the Karteria and four hired vessels--the corvette Themistocles, belonging to the Tombazis;
the Ares, belonging to the Admiral Miaoulis; and two small schooners.

On the afternoon of a beautiful clear day, the little fleet entered the bay of Volo, in which
eight Turkish transports were seen at anchor. It was some time before the enemy was persuaded
that the Greek vessels were bearing down to attack them, for they considered the anchorage
perfectly defended by two batteries which they had erected on the cape, enclosing the harbour,
opposite the castle of Volo. The castle itself is a square fort in a dilapidated condition,
with only a few guns mounted.

At half-past four o'clock, the Themistocles and Ares received orders to anchor before the batteries,
just out of the reach of musketry, and not to waste a single shot before they had taken up
their positions. They were then directed to open a heavy fire of grape and round shot on the
enemy. While they were executing these orders, Hastings entered the port, and opened his fire
of shells on the intrenchments of the Turks, and of grape on the transports, which were filled
with men to prevent their capture. The heavy fire of the Karteria, which poured on the enemy
three hundred two-ounce balls from each of its guns, soon threw the Turks into confusion; and
the boats were manned, and sent to board the transports. Five vessels being heavily laden,
though they had been run aground, were not close to the shore, and these were soon captured;
but two brigs being empty, were placed close under the fire of the troops in the intrenchments.
Though they were attacked by all the boats of the squadron, they were not taken until after
an obstinate resistance. The English boatswain of the Karteria, who was the first to mount
the side of one, was wounded; but he succeeded in gaining the deck, and hauling down the Turkish
flag. A Turk, however, who had no idea of surrendering to an infidel, rushed at him, and fired
a pistol at his head. The ball, fortunately, only grazed his forehead. The Turk then leaped
overboard, and endeavoured to swim on shore; but one of the English sailors, considering his
conduct so unfair as to merit death, jumped into the sea after him, and, having overtaken him,
deliberately cut his throat with a clasp-knife, as he had no other weapon, and then returned
on board. The Greek Revolution too often gave occasions for displaying

    "The instinct of the first-born Cain,
    Which ever lurks somewhere in human hearts."

It was found impossible to get the two brigs afloat; and, as their sails had been landed, it
would have been impossible to navigate them. They were therefore burnt; and another smaller
vessel, which was so placed that Hastings would not expose his men by attempting to take possession
of her, was destroyed by shells. A shell, exploding in her hull, blew her fore-mast into the
water. For four hours the Karteria remained in the harbour of Volo. The corvette and brig had
so completely silenced the fire of the batteries, that they appeared to be abandoned; while
the guns of the castle only kept up an irregular and ill-directed fire on the Karteria. The
magazines were all in flames from the effect of the red-hot shot fired into them; and, as night
approached, the Karteria made the signal for all the vessels to make sail out of the harbour
with a light breeze from the land. The spectacle offered by the bay as it grew dark was peculiarly
grand. On the sombre outline of the hills round the gulf, innumerable fires were seen; and
a continued discharge of musketry was heard proclaiming the arrival of each little band of
troops which reached the camp at Volo. The lurid light thrown out by the flames from the burning
magazines, and the reflection of the blazing transports, which were quickly consumed to the
water's edge, enabled the steamer, in departing, to destroy the carriages of two guns which
the Turks were endeavouring to get ready to salute the departing squadron.

Hastings had expected to find at Volo a large Turkish man-of-war, mounting sixteen heavy guns,
and two mortars which had been constructed for the siege of Missolonghi, but which had not
even got so far as Volo until after the fall of that place. This vessel was now waiting until
the Turks should require her to bombard some seaport in the possession of the Greeks. A Greek
fishing-boat came alongside to inform Hastings that the Pasha had ordered this vessel to Tricheri
for greater security, where she was moored, with three schooners taken from the Greeks at Psara,
in a small bay protected by a battery of twelve guns. In this position, she was considered
perfectly safe from the attacks of the whole Greek fleet, aided by the fire-frigate herself,
as the Turks called the Karteria. Hastings proceeded immediately to Tricheri, hoping to surprise
the enemy by an attack during the night; but he found the Turks on the alert, and their well-directed
fire of musketry rendered it impossible to continue the attack with the smallest chance of success.

At daylight next morning, Hastings examined the position of the enemy with care, but he saw
there was no hope of capturing the bomb-ketch or any of the schooners; he therefore determined
to confine his operations to destroying them. After getting up the steam and heating a few
shot, he stood in to about three-quarters of a mile of the Turkish ship, and going slowly round
in a large circle, he brought his long guns to bear successively, and fired them with the greatest
deliberation. He then moved out of gun-shot of the Turkish battery to observe the effect of
his fire. In about half an hour, a quantity of smoke was observed to issue from the large Turkish
vessel, which the enemy appeared at first to disregard; but, in a short time, they seemed to
discover that their ship was on fire, for they were seen hurrying down and rushing on board
in great numbers. The carronades were now reloaded with shells, and the long guns with large
grape, and the Karteria stood in to prevent the enemy from continuing his endeavours to extinguish
the fire. The attention of the Turks was thus distracted; the flames soon burst through the
decks of the ship, and, catching the rigging, rendered all approach to her impossible. In a
short time she was a mass of flame; and her guns to the land-side, having been loaded, went
off, discharging their shot into the battery formed for her protection. As her upper works
burned away, she drifted from her station; but getting again on shore against the rocks, her
magazine exploded, and the remains of her hull, with all her guns, sank in deep water. The
three schooners also received several shells, and were so injured, as to be rendered unable
to put to sea without undergoing great repairs.

The loss of the Greek squadron in this expedition was very small; only three men were killed
and two wounded. But one of the killed was James Hall, an Englishman on board the Karteria--an
old sailor of a most excellent character, and possessed of considerable knowledge in every
branch of his profession. He was killed by a twelve-pound shot from the battery at Tricheri.
This shot, after breaking the claw of an anchor, rebounded, and, in falling, struck Hall in
the pit of the stomach, and rolled on the deck, as if it had hardly touched his clothes. He
fell instantly, and was taken up quite dead--the usual tranquil smile his features bore still
lingering on his lips. Hall was not only a most excellent sailor, but, a truly honest man,
and he was long remembered and deeply regretted by all on board the Karteria. His remains were
committed to the deep, Captain Hastings reading the funeral service; for the English insisted
that he would have preferred a sailor's funeral to being interred on shore in a Greek churchyard.

James Hall was the only human spirit among the rude crew of the Karteria, and after his death
most of the English sailors displayed the feelings of savages. One old man-of-war's man, who
had served in many a well-fought action, declared that he would kill every Turkish prisoner
taken in the prizes at Volo; and he attempted one night to break into the cabin abaft the larboard
paddle-box, in which some of these Turks were confined. Armed with a large knife, he proclaimed
that he was determined to kill the prisoners, and he called on the other sailors to assist
him. He argued, that the war with the Turks was an irregular warfare; and as the Turks killed
their prisoners, on the ground that they were either rebels or outlaws, it was the duty of
the Greeks to kill every Turk who fell into their power. When brought before Captain Hastings,
he persisted in his determination; and though he was perfectly sober, he at last declared that
he would quit the service, unless the English were allowed in future to kill the prisoners.
Hastings tried to reason with him, but in vain. It was necessary to put him under arrest, and
when the Kateria returned to Poros, he demanded his discharge, and quitted Greece.

The Karteria suffered very severely in her hull and rigging, from the fire of the castle at
Volo, and the battery at Tricheri. She lost her jib-boom, main-topmast, gaff, and larboard
cat-head, and received much other damage; so that it was necessary to proceed to Poros to give
her a thorough repair. On her way, she was fortunate enough to capture four vessels laden with
stores and provisions for the Turks of Negropont.

At Poros, Hastings found the affairs of the navy very little improved by Lord Cochrane's presence
in Greece; and we think that we cannot convey a better idea of their state, than is contained
in a letter which he addressed to his lordship on the 30th of April 1827. "It is with deep
regret I see the extreme discontent on board the Sauveur brig, which seems to me to be greatly
increased by, if not entirely owing to, the Greeks being paid in advance, and the English being
in arrears of wages. In this country, I must repeat, my lord, nothing can be done without regular
payments. By paying out of my own funds when others could not be obtained, I have established
the confidence both of Greeks and English in this vessel, as far as money is concerned; but
I cannot continue to pay out of my own pocket. If funds are not forthcoming, I beg leave to
resign. Whilst I am on board, the people will always consider me personally responsible for
their wages; and I must again remark, I have suffered already much too severely in my private
fortune in this service to admit of my making further sacrifices. Besides wages for the crew,
I have various expenses to repair damages sustained in the late actions at Volo and Tricheri."
Captain Hastings was, however, at this time, easily induced to continue his services on board
the Karteria, as the defeat of the Greek army before Athens on the 6th of May, and the departure
of General Gordon, Count Porro, and several other Philhellenes, who considered the cause utterly
hopeless, rendered the moment unsuitable for his resignation.

The Karteria was again fitted for sea with the greatest expedition, and joined Lord Cochrane,
when he made an unsuccessful attempt to surprise and capture Ibrahim Pasha at Clarenza. Hastings
was separated from the Hellas by bad weather, and in returning to the rendezvous at Spetzia,
he lost two of his masts and two men, in a hurricane off Cape Malea. Shortly after his return
to Poros, where he was again compelled to refit, he received the following laconic communication
from Lord Cochrane, in which all mention of a rendezvous was omitted.

     "Memo.--If the Perseverance is fit for service, please join the
     squadron without delay.

        "COCHRANE.
        "Hellas, 7th June 1827.
        "Captain Hastings, Perseverance."

In consequence of this order, Captain Hastings set out in search of Lord Cochrane. A series
of fruitless cruises followed, in which every division of the Turkish fleet contrived to escape
the Greeks. At last, it was resolved that an attack should be made on Vasiladhi, the little
fort which commands the entrance into the lagoons of Missolonghi; and the whole fleet, under
the command of Lord Cochrane in person, appeared off that place. The attempt was only persisted
in for a short time, and it failed.

The treaty of the 6th of July 1827, for the pacification of the affairs of Greece, between
Great Britain, France, and Russia, now became known to the Greeks; and the news stimulated
both them and their friends to make increased exertions, in order that the Allies might find
as much of the country as possible already delivered from the Turkish yoke. A small squadron
of ten Turkish brigs having entered the Gulf of Lepanto, Lord Cochrane gave Hastings an order
to pursue them, conceived in the following flattering terms:--

    Off Missolonghi, 18th Sept. 1827.

     "You have been good enough to volunteer to proceed into the Gulf
     of Lepanto, into which, under existing circumstances, I should
     not have ordered the Perseverance (Karteria.) I therefore leave
     all the proceedings to your judgment, intimating only, that the
     transporting of General Church's troops to the north of the gulf,
     and the destruction or capture of the enemy's vessels, will be
     services of high importance to the cause of Greece."

Captain Hastings immediately entered the gulf, passing through the formidable strait between
the castles of the Morea and Roumelia, called the Dardanelles of Lepanto, during the night.
On the 29th of September, having collected his little squadron, consisting of the Karteria,
the brig Sauveur of eighteen guns, commanded by Captain Thomas, and two gun-boats, each mounting
a long thirty-two pounder; Hastings stood into the bay of Salona (Amphissa) to attack a Turkish
squadron, consisting of nine vessels, anchored under the protection of batteries, and a large
body of troops placed at the Scala of Salona. Three Austrian merchantmen in the port were also
filled with armed men, in spite of the remonstrances of their masters, and assisted in defending
the squadron at anchor.

About ten o'clock A.M., the Karteria, followed by the Sauveur and the two gun-boats, stood
into the bay to attack this formidable position. The Turks were so confident of victory, that
they were eager to see the Greek ships anchor as near them as possible. They therefore withheld
their fire until Captain Hastings made the signal for anchoring. The Karteria proceeded much
nearer the shore than the sailing vessels, and having anchored within five hundred yards, opposite
the vessel which bore the flag of the Turkish commodore, she opened her fire. The Turks then
commenced a furious cannonade from upwards of sixty pieces of artillery; but they had hardly
time to reload the greater part of the guns on board their ships. Captain Hastings, before
going into action, had heated several shells, thinking that sixty-eight pound shot might pass
through both sides of the vessels he was about to engage so near, as they were principally
constructed of fir. After firing one broadside of cold shot to make sure of the range, his
second consisted of two hot shells from the long guns, and two carcass-shells from the carronades.
One of these lodged in the hull of the Turkish commodore, and, reaching the powder-magazine,
the action commenced by blowing up his ship.[12] A carcass-shell exploding in the bows of the
brig anchored next to the commodore, she sank forward, while a hot shell striking her stern,
which stood up in the shallow water, it was soon enveloped in flames. In a few minutes, another
vessel was perceived to be on fire; and a fine Algerine schooner, mounting twenty long brass
guns, having received a shell which exploded between her decks, was abandoned by her crew.

The battle of Salona afforded the most satisfactory proofs of the efficiency of the armament
of steam-boats, with heavy guns, which Captain Hastings had so long and so warmly advocated.
The terrific and rapid manner in which a force so greatly superior to his own was utterly annihilated
by the hot shot and shells of the Karteria, silenced the opponents of Captain Hastings' plan
throughout all Europe. From that day it became evident to all who studied the progress of naval
warfare, that every nation in Europe must adopt his principles of marine artillery, and arm
some vessels in their fleets on the model he had given them. In Greece the question of continuing
to hire merchant ships to form a fleet was put to rest; and the necessity of commencing the
formation of a national navy was now admitted by Hydriotes, Spetziotes, and Psariotes.

The services of the other vessels in the Greek squadron at Salona, though eclipsed by the superior
armament of the Karteria ought not to be overlooked. Captain Thomas, who commanded the Sauveur,
displayed all the courage, activity, and skill of an experienced English officer; he silenced
the two batteries, on which the Turks had placed great dependence, as alone sufficient to prevent
the Greeks from entering the port; and by a well-directed fire of grape, he compelled the troops
which lined the shore to get under the cover of the irregular ground in the neighbourhood.
Hastings then made the signal for all the boats of the squadron to take possession of the Algerine
schooner and the two other brigs which were not on fire.

A severe contest took place in order to gain possession of the schooner; for the fire of the
Greek ships being suspended as the boats approached her, the Turkish troops sprang from their
hiding-places, and rushed to the edge of the rocks, which commanded a view of her deck. From
this position they opened a heavy fire of musketry on those who had mounted her sides. The
fire of the gun-boats again cleared the beach; but the Turks contrived to keep up a severe
fire at intervals, and Mr Scanlan, the first lieutenant of the Sauveur, was killed, and several
others wounded, in attempting to get her under weigh. Captain Hastings steamed up to the schooner
at last, and having got her stream-cable made fast, attempted to move her; but the cable broke,
and it became evident that the falling tide in the bay had fixed her firmly on the ground.
With incredible exertions her long brass guns were all saved, and she was then set on fire.
Mr Phalangas, a Greek officer, the first lieutenant of the Karteria, was also wounded in setting
fire to a brig anchored at some distance from the rest. The boats then concluded the day by
driving the Turks from the Austrian merchantmen, and bringing out these vessels as prizes.

In this engagement nine Turkish vessels were destroyed, though defended by batteries on shore
and upwards of 500 veteran troops; yet it cost the assailants only six men killed and a few
wounded. In the despatch of Captain Hastings, announcing the victory, he pays a high tribute
to the merits of Captain Hane, who had served with him at the siege of Nauplia in 1822, and
in Crete during the campaign of 1823. "The services of Captain Hane of the artillery, serving
on board this vessel, are too well known on every former occasion to make it necessary for
me to say more than that I am equally indebted to him now as on other occasions."

Ibrahim Pasha was at Navarin with an immense fleet, when he heard of the destruction of his
ships in the bay of Salona. Sir Edward Codrington and Admiral de Rigny had, on the 25th of
September, entered into convention with him to suspend all hostilities against the Greeks until
he should receive answers from Constantinople and Alexandria to the communications made on
the part of the three allied powers; but neither Hastings nor the Turkish commodore in the
Gulf of Lepanto were aware of this circumstance. The rage of Ibrahim when he heard of the result
of the affair at Salona knew no bounds, and he determined to inflict the severest vengeance
on Hastings, whose little squadron he thought he could easily annihilate.

Sir Edward Codrington, after arranging the terms of the convention, had repaired to Zante to
wait the arrival of several vessels he expected, and Admiral de Rigny had left Navarin to collect
the French force in the Archipelago. Ibrahim, seeing that there were no ships of the allies
at Navarin capable of stopping his fleet, ordered twenty-six men-of-war to put to sea on the
30th of September. He embarked himself with this division of his fleet, determined to witness
the destruction of the Greek squadron. A violent gale, however, compelled him to put back on
the 3d of October; but a part of his fleet, under the command of the Patrona Bey, persisting
in its endeavours to enter the Gulf of Lepanto, was pursued by Admiral Codrington, who forced
it to return to Navarin, but not until he had found himself obliged to fire into several of
the Ottoman ships. As the English admiral had at the time a very small force at Zante, many
of the Turkish ships might, in spite of all his exertions, have escaped into the gulf, unless
he had been aided in arresting their progress by a succession of gales which blew on the 4th,
5th, and 6th of October. These gales assisted Sir Edward Codrington in compelling the whole
of the dispersed fleet of the Patrona Bey to seek refuge in the port of Navarin.

In the mean time the position of Captain Hastings was one of extreme danger, and Lord Cochrane,
who addressed his last official communication to him on the 12th of October, conveys his parting
words of praise and confidence in the following terms:--"You have done so much good, and so
much is anticipated from your keeping open the communications between the shores of the gulf,
that I think you would do well to remain for a while where you are. You occupy, however, a
position of risk, if the reports are true regarding the fleet being off Patras; and therefore
I leave you to act in all things as you judge best for the public service." Hastings, as soon
as he was informed of Ibrahim Pasha's intention to attack him, and before he had received the
news of his deliverance by the movement of Sir Edward Codrington's squadron, had selected the
spot in which he hoped to be able to defy the attacks of the whole fleet sent against him.
He chose a small bay at the eastern extremity of the Gulf of Corinth, formed in the rocky precipices
of Mount Geranion, and open to the Alcyonian sea. This little bay or port is called Stravá.
Its entrance is protected by two rocky islands, and it is bounded on the continent by a succession
of precipices covered by pine woods, which render the debarkation of a large force in the neighbourhood
very difficult. Hastings proposed to defend this position by landing four of his guns on the
mainland and the islands; and he made every preparation for receiving the Egyptians with a
well-sustained fire of hot shot, while a number of Greek troops were assembled to man the rocks
around.

There can be no doubt that Ibrahim Pasha committed a blunder in violating the convention into
which he had just entered, and his attempt at taking vengeance into his own hands, instead
of appealing to the three allied powers, created great distrust on the part of the admirals.
They naturally enough conceived that he would always hold himself ready to take every advantage
of their absence, and their only method of effectually watching the immense fleet assembled
at Navarin was by bringing their own squadrons to an anchor in that immense harbour. The battle
of Navarin, on the 20th of October, was the natural consequence of the distrust on the one
side, and the eager desire of revenge on the other, which rendered the proximity of the different
fleets necessary. The affair of Captain Hastings at Salona, as one of the proximate causes
of this great naval engagement, acquires an historical importance far exceeding its mere military
results. In the eyes of the Greeks and Turks it very justly occupies a prominent place in the
history of the Greek war, as it is by them always viewed as the link which connects their military
operations with the celebrated battle of Navarin.

The destruction of the Turkish and Egyptian fleets delivered Greece from imminent peril; but
in the exultation created by the assurance that their independence was firmly established,
the Greek government began to forget the services which the Karteria had rendered in the days
of their despair. No supplies of any kind were forwarded to Captain Hastings, who remained
in the gulf; both Lord Cochrane and the government allowed him to remain without provisions,
and his crew would have in great part quitted him, unless he had paid the men their wages from
his own fortune. On the 17th of November he wrote to Lord Cochrane, urging the necessity of
sending him some assistance. This letter, which remained unanswered, contains the following
passages:--"I am now seven thousand pounds out of pocket by my services in Greece, and I am
daily expending my own money for the public service. Our prizes are serving as transports for
the army, and we must either shortly abandon this position or be paid. Without money I cannot
any longer maintain this vessel. I will do all I can; but I must repeat, that it is not quite
fair I should end a beggar, after all the labour, vexation, and disappointment I have experienced
for so many years."

The only body of troops available for any national purpose, which had been kept together after
the loss of Athens, with the exception of the corps of regular troops under General Fabvier,
was that assembled by General Church on the southern shores of the Gulf of Lepanto. As soon
as the battle of Navarin had paralysed the movements of the Turks, General Church determined
to transport his troops from the Morea into Acarnania, where the Greek captains, who had submitted
to the Turks, offered again to take up arms, if an adequate force appeared in the province
to support them. The principal object which detained the Karteria in the gulf had been to assist
the movements of General Church, who now resolved to cross over to Acarnania from Cape Papas.
On the evening of the 17th of November, Captain Hastings received a communication from General
Church, requesting him to appear off Cape Papas next day.

In order to arrive at the rendezvous in time, Hastings was compelled to quit the gulf in the
daytime, and consequently to expose his own ship and the three prizes to the fire of the castles
of the Morea and Romelia--an act of rashness of which he would not willingly have been guilty.
The castle of the Morea mounted about sixty guns, and that of Romelia twenty-seven; those commanding
the straights were of large calibre. As their fire crossed, the passage of the Dardanelles
of Lepanto was always considered a dangerous enterprise; and certainly, if the batteries had
been served by good artillerymen, no ship could have ventured under their fire without being
destroyed. Even with the gunners of Ibrahim Pasha's army, the passage was attended with considerable
risk.

The little squadron of Captain Hastings approached the castles about noon on a beautiful day.
The Karteria, leading with a favourable wind, and spreading an immense extent of canvass from
her four low masts, glided along with the aid of her steam at an amazing rate. Her three prizes,
followed with every sail set, and two Greek misticos availed themselves of the opportunity
of quitting the gulf in order to cruise as privateers between Patras and Missolonghi. The moment
the Karteria came within gun-shot of the Turkish castles, they opened their fire; and for some
time the balls fell thick around her--those of both castles passing over her hull, and falling
beyond their mark. Several shot, however, struck her sails, and the slow and regular manner
in which each gun was discharged as it came to bear, indicated that the passage was not likely
to be effected without some loss. Fortunately very few shot struck the hull of the Karteria,
yet the damage she received was not inconsiderable. The funnel was shot through, a patent windlass
was broken to pieces, and the fragments of the iron wheels scattered about the decks like a
shower of grape. Several paddles were wrenched off the starboard paddle-wheel, and one shot
passed through the side near the water's edge. Two of the best sailors on board were killed
by a twenty-four pound shot while working a gun on the quarter-deck. The hand of a boy was
carried away by another, and yet all this loss was sustained ere the Karteria had reached the
centre of the passage. At the moment when every shot was taking effect, the Turks suddenly
lost the range. Every succeeding shot passed over the steamer, and she proceeded along under
the fire of more than half the guns, without receiving any additional damage. The Turks were
only able to reload a few guns to discharge at the rest of the squadron, which escaped uninjured.

The loss of two men killed and one wounded, distressed Captain Hastings. He was sure the Turks
at Patras would soon receive an exaggerated account of the damage he had sustained, from their
spies at Zante; and as this would embolden those who furnished their camp with provisions,
he was extremely anxious to destroy any vessels that might be anchored at Patras, in order
to convince the enemy that the Karteria was to be dreaded, even after receiving the greatest
injury. A favourable opportunity fortunately offered itself of displaying the power of the
steamer to Ibrahim Pasha's camp at Patras. On approaching the roadstead, a brig heavily laden
was seen at anchor, which had evidently arrived the preceding night, little expecting that
the Greek squadron would quit the gulf in the daytime. Hastings immediately made every preparation
for cutting her out, but the Austrian consul was seen approaching in a small boat, with a flag
like the ensign of a three-decker. The following dialogue took place between him and Hastings
alongside the Karteria, while the Austrians in the brig were actively engaged in getting every
thing ready to haul their vessel, at a moment's warning, under a battery of Turkish field-pieces
placed on the beach.

Hastings.--"As Austrian consul, you must be aware that the Greek government have been blockading
Patras for some time, and that there is now a gun-boat cruising off the port."

Austrian Consul.--"My government acknowledges no such authority as a Greek government, and,
consequently, does not admit the validity of its acts."

Hastings.--"My orders, however, are to enforce those acts. I must, therefore, request you to
proceed immediately to the Austrian brig at anchor in the Harbour, and order the master to
come on board with his papers."

Austrian Consul.--"I believe I am speaking to an Englishman; and neither Austria nor Turkey
being at war with England, you are bound to respect the Austrian flag."

Hastings.--"You are speaking, sir, to an officer in the Greek service, commanding the squadron
blockading Patras; and if the Austrian brig does not place itself under my protection in five
minutes, I shall fire into the Turkish camp, and it will be destroyed."

In saying this, Captain Hastings took out his watch and left the consul, who vainly endeavoured
to renew the conversation in order to gain time. When he quitted the Karteria, he pulled towards
the shore, instead of proceeding to communicate Hastings' orders to the master of the brig.
This being, apparently, a concerted signal, the greatest exertions were suddenly commence to
haul the Austrian vessel under the guns of the battery.

Hastings allowed the Austrian consul five minutes to reach the shore; and as he was not inclined
to expose his crew to any loss in taking possession of a prize which he could easily destroy
without danger, he directed his fire against the Austrian brig. As soon as he found that he
was approaching the range of the Turkish battery, he fired a few shells into it and the Austrian
vessel. One of these exploding in her hull near the water's edge, tore out great part of her
side, and she sank almost instantaneously, barely leaving time for the crew to escape in the
long-boat.

On the 28th of November, General Church reached Cape Papas with the first division of his army,
consisting of only six hundred men, which was embarked and transported to Dragomestré. Two
days after, the squadron returned, and conveyed over to Romelia the remainder of the Greek
troops, not exceeding seven hundred soldiers; so that General Church opened his winter campaign
in Acarnania, which led to the conquest of that province, with a force of only one thousand
three hundred fighting men.

While the Greek army was engaged in fortifying its position at Dragomestré, Captain Hastings
resolved to attack Vasiladhi--the small insular fort commanding the entrance into the lagoons
of Missolonghi and Anatolikon, which Lord Cochrane had attempted in vain to capture about three
months before. On the 22d of December he anchored about three thousand yards from the fort,
finding that it was impossible to bring the Karteria any nearer. For nearly a mile round Vasiladhi,
the depth of the water does not exceed three feet, and the fort itself rises little more than
six feet above the level of the sea. The bombardment of such a place was a delicate operation,
requiring the most favourable weather, and the very best artillery practice. The first day
the attempt was made, two hundred shells were fired without producing any effect. When fired
en ricochet, they diverged to the right and left in a manner which gave Vasiladhi the appearance
of an enchanted spot. Captain Hastings conjectured that this singular circumstance was owing
to the shallowness of the water; the mud approaching the surface close to the fort, afforded
so much more resistance to the shells which fell in its immediate vicinity, as to cause a more
marked deviation in the line of their primary direction.

At the same time it was found that those shells which were fired with a charge of eight pounds
of powder, at twenty-three degrees of elevation--the highest elevation that could be given
to the long guns--all varied to the right, though the day was perfectly calm. This variation
appeared to be caused by a strong current of air at some height above the earth's surface;
but it was so irregular that it was found impossible to make any correct allowance for it;
and it was singular, that any wind perceptible on the deck of the Karteria blew in the contrary
direction.

For some days after this unsuccessful attempt, the weather was too stormy to think of renewing
the attack; but on the 29th of December the day was perfectly calm, and the atmosphere of that
transparent clearness which characterises the climate of Greece. Hastings determined to bombard
Vasiladhi a second time. The first shell fired indicated that the circumstances were now favourable;
and the fourth, which Captain Hastings fired with his own hand, exploded in the powder-magazine.
All the boats were instantly ordered out to storm the place; but the Turks were thrown into
such a state of confusion by the explosion of the powder, and the fire which burst out in their
huts, that they were unable to offer any resistance; and the assailants, commanded by Captain
Hane of the artillery, entered the place, seized the arms of the Turks, and set them to work
at extinguishing the fire, which was spreading to the magazine of provisions, as if they had
only arrived to assist their friends. There were fifty-one Turks in the fort; twelve had been
killed by the explosion.

Captain Hastings ordered all the prisoners to be transported on board the Karteria; and as
he could ill spare any of his provisions, and could not encumber his vessel with enemies who
required to be guarded, he resolved to release them immediately. He therefore informed the
Turkish commandant that he would send him to Missolonghi in a monoxylon, or canoe used in the
lagoons, in order to procure two large flat-bottomed boats to take away the prisoners. The
Turk, who considered this was only a polite way of letting him know that he was to be drowned
or suffocated in the mud, showed, nevertheless, no signs of fear or anger. He thanked Captain
Hastings for the soldier-like manner in which he had been treated, and said that, as a prisoner,
it was his duty to meet death in any way his conqueror might determine. The scene at last began
to assume a comic character;--for Hastings was the last person on board to perceive that his
prisoner supposed that he was about to be murdered by his orders; and the Turkish commandant
was the only one who did not understand that it was really Hastings' intention to send him
to Missolonghi in perfect safety. When the Turk was conducted to the monoxylon, in which one
of his own men was seated, in order to paddle the boat through the lagoon, he was convinced
of his error, and his expressions of gratitude to Hastings were warm, though as dignified as
his previous conduct.

The flat-bottomed boats arrived next day, and took away the prisoners. They brought a sheep
and a sabre as a present to Captain Hastings from the Turkish commandant, accompanied by a
letter expressing his regret that the commander-in-chief in Missolonghi would not allow him
to come himself to visit his benefactor.

The conquest of Vasiladhi did not diminish the difficulties with which Hastings was surrounded,
nor remove any of the disagreeable circumstances attendant on the neglect with which he was
treated by Lord Cochrane and the Greek government. On the 7th of January 1828, he wrote to
a friend in the following desponding terms:--"I am full of misery. I have not a dollar. I owe
my people three months' pay, and five dollars a man gratuity for Vasiladhi. I have no provisions.
I have lost an anchor and chain. If I can get out of my present difficulties, I may perhaps
go into the gulf."

On the 16th of January he wrote to the Greek government, stating all the difficulties of his
position, and complaining of the manner in which the Karteria had been left entirely dependent
on his private resources. He wrote: "It has become an established maxim to leave this vessel
without any supplies. Dr Goss has just been at Zante, and has left three hundred dollars for
the Helvetia, now serving under my orders--but not one farthing, no provisions, and not even
a single word, for me. Five months ago, I was eight thousand dollars in advance for the pay
of my crew; and, since that time, I have only received one thousand dollars from the naval
chest of Lord Cochrane, and six hundred from the military of General Church. This last sum
is not even sufficient to pay the expenses incurred by the detention of our prizes in order
to serve as transports for the army. I have, in addition to the ordinary expenses of this vessel,
been obliged to purchase wood for our steam-engine, and provisions for the gun-boat Helvetia--to
which I have also furnished two hundred dollars in money to pay the crew. The capture of Vasiladhi
has cost me two thousand dollars; yet I have not taken the brass cannon in that fort, and replaced
them with the iron guns of our prizes, in order to assist me in meeting my expenses."

About this time Count Capo d'Istrias arrived in Greece to assume the presidency of the republic;
and Captain Hastings, as soon as he was informed of his arrival, transmitted him a very valuable
letter, in which he gave a luminous picture of the state of affairs in Western Greece. This
letter is particularly instructive, as it gives an admirable summary of the line of conduct
which gained Hastings his great reputation in Greece. "From the hour of my receiving the command
of the Karteria, I determined to break down the system existing in the navy of paying the sailors
in advance, as such a practice is destructive of all discipline. The Greek government and Lord
Cochrane, however, did not adopt this rule. They paid their own equipages in advance, and they
left mine unpaid."

Count Capo d'Istrias, though a very able diplomatist, was not a military man; and he paid no
attention to Hastings' letter. Lord Cochrane, who had long ceased to hold any communication
with Captain Hastings, had, a short time previous to the arrival of Count Capo d'Istrias, suddenly
disappeared from Greece, in the English yacht in which he arrived, without giving the Greek
government any notice of his intention. In this state of things, it was not wonderful that
the naval affairs of the country fell into the most deplorable anarchy; and the disorder became
so painful to Captain Hastings, that he resigned the command of the Kateria and resolved to
quit Greece.

The importance of preventing so distinguished a Philhellene from quitting Greece so shortly
after his own arrival, struck Count Capo d'Istrias very forcibly, and he resolved to do every
thing in his power to retain Captain Hastings in his service. To effect this, he invited him
to a personal interview at Poros, in order, as he said, to avail himself of the valuable experience
of so tried a friend to the cause of his country. When they met, it was easy for Capo d'Istrias
to persuade Hastings to resume the command of the naval division in the Gulf of Corinth; particularly
as the president promised to adopt the principles which Hastings laid down as necessary for
the formation of a national navy, and engaged to follow his advice in organizing this force.
Nothing, indeed, could have gratified the ambition of Captain Hastings so much as being employed
in this way, since he could thus hope to raise a durable monument of his naval skill, and a
lasting memorial of his service in Greece.

After commencing the formation of a naval arsenal at Poros, and laying the foundation for some
superstructure of order in the naval administration, Hastings again assumed the command of
the Karteria; and on the 9th of May 1828, anchored off Vasiladhi, in order to co-operate with
the troops under General Church. The united forces had been directed by the president to act
against Anatolikon and Missolonghi, which, it was hoped, would easily be compelled to surrender.
After reconnoitring the approaches to Anatolikon, which General Church had resolved to attack
first, Captain Hastings, with his usual activity, prepared rocket-frames, and brought all his
boats into the lagoons. On the 15th, an attempt was made to set fire to the town by the discharge
of a number of six and twelve-pound rockets; but, though many entered the place, no conflagration
ensued, and the attack failed. It was then determined to bombard Anatolikon; and, under the
cover of a heavy fire of shells from the batteries, and grenades from the gun-boats, to make
an attempt to carry the place by storm.

The 25th of May was fixed for the assault; and Captain Hastings, who felt the necessity of
enforcing order, and setting an example of courage in so important a crisis, determined to
direct the attack of the naval forces in person. Unfortunately, a division of the land forces,
which were totally destitute of all discipline, and not even officered in a regular manner,
had been embarked in the boats of some Greek privateers, for the purpose of assisting in the
attack. The real object of these troops was to try to get first into the place in order to
pillage. Before the artillery had produced any effect, and before Captain Hastings had made
all the necessary dispositions for the assault, these irregular troops advanced to the attack.
Two officers of the marine, who commanded the gun-boats at the greatest distance from the boats
of the Karteria, seeing the attack commencing, and supposing that the signal had been given
by Captain Hastings, pushed forward. No alternative now remained between carrying the place,
or witnessing a total defeat of a considerable part of the force under his command; Hastings,
therefore, without a moment's hesitation, endeavoured to repair the error already committed,
by rendering the attack as general as possible. Making the signal of attack, he led the boats
of the Karteria to the assault.

The ardour of the troops who rashly commenced the attack abated, as soon as they found that
the Turks received them with a well-directed fire of musketry. After some feeble attempts to
approach the enemy, in which they sustained no loss, they kept their boats stationary far out
of musket-shot of Anatolikon. On the other side, the boats of the Greek squadron advanced with
great gallantry and steadiness; but the Turks had assembled a powerful force, which was posted
in a well-protected position, and opened a severe fire on the assailants. The shallow water,
and intricate channel through the lagoon, retarded the progress of the two gun-boats; and Captain
Andrea, who commanded that in advance, having been killed, and some of his men wounded, his
crew was thrown into disorder. Captain Hastings, pushing forward in his gig to repair this
loss, was almost immediately after struck by a rifle-ball in the left arm, and fell down. His
fall was the signal for a general retreat.

When the boats returned to the Karteria, the wound of Captain Hastings was examined and bandaged.
By a most unfortunate accident, there was no surgeon attached to the ship at the time; one
surgeon having left a few days before, and his successor not having arrived. A medical man
had, however, without any loss of time, been procured from the camp on shore; and after he
had dressed the wound, he declared that it was not alarming, and that the arm was in no danger.
Though he suffered great pain, Captain Hastings soon began to turn his attention to repairing
the loss the Greek arms had sustained. On the 28th of May, he wrote a report of the proceedings
before Anatolikon, addressed to the minister of the marine; and in it he expressed the hope,
that in a few days his wound would be so far healed as to allow him again to assume the direction
of the operations against Anatolikon in person.

But, in spite of the favourable opinion expressed by the surgeon of the troops, it became evident
that the wound was rapidly becoming worse; and it was decided that amputation was necessary.
In order to entrust the operation to a more skilful surgeon than the one who had hitherto attended
him, it was necessary that Captain Hastings should proceed to Zante. This decision had unfortunately
been delayed too long. Tetanus had ensued before the Karteria reached the port; and, on the
1st of June, Frank Abney Hastings expired at Zante, on board the Karteria, which he had so
gloriously commanded.

The moment his death was known in Greece, the great value of his services was universally felt.
All hope of organizing the Greek navy perished with him; and notwithstanding the advice and
assistance of the European powers, and the adoption of many plans prepared by the allies of
Greece, the naval force of that country is in a much worse condition to-day than it was at
the time of Captain Hastings' death in 1828. Every honour was paid to his memory. The president
of Greece, Count Capo d'Istrias, decreed that his remains should receive a public funeral;
and by an ordinance addressed to Mr Alexander Maurocordatos, the minister of the marine, and
Mr George Finlay and Mr Nicholas Kalergy, the personal friends of the deceased, he charged
these gentlemen with this sacred duty. Mr Tricoupi pronounced the funeral oration when the
interment took place at Poros; and he concluded his discourse with the following words, as
the prayer of the assembled clergy in the name of the whole Greek nation:--"O LORD! IN THY
HEAVENLY KINGDOM REMEMBER FRANK ABNEY HASTINGS, WHO DIED IN DEFENCE OF HIS SUFFERING FELLOW-CREATURES."

But nations are proverbially ungrateful. Nearly seventeen years have now elapsed since the
death of Hastings, the best and ablest Englishman who, even to the present hour, has been connected
in any way with the public affairs of Greece; yet neither the Greek government nor the Greek
people, though often revelling in millions rashly furnished them by their injudicious friends,
have ever thought of paying their debt of gratitude to the memory of Frank Abney Hastings.
While stars and ribands have been lavishly conferred on those whose power was supposed to influence
the arrival of expected millions, the heirs of Hastings were forgotten. We are bound, however,
to absolve a considerable portion of the nation from the charge of ingratitude and avarice,
which we only thereby concentrate against the government, and the leading statesmen of the country.

When the numerous Greek sailors who had served under the orders of Hastings heard of his death,
many of them happened to be at Egina. They immediately collected a sum of money among themselves,
and engaged the clergy at Egina to celebrate the funeral service in the principal church, with
all the pomp and ceremony possible in those troubled times. Never probably was a braver man
more sincerely mourned by a veteran band of strangers, who, in a foreign land, grieved more
deeply for his untimely loss.

It may appear surprising to many of our readers that we should give to the name of Hastings
so very prominent a position in the history of the latter days of the Greek Revolution, when
that name is comparatively unknown at home. To make this apparent, we shall endeavour to explain
the manner in which the Greeks carried on their warfare with the Turks; and it will then appear
that European officers were not generally likely to form either a correct or a favourable opinion
of the military affairs of the country. It is not, therefore, surprising that false ideas of
the state of Greece have prevailed, or indeed that they still continue to prevail, even among
the foreigners long resident in the new Greek kingdom. The military operations of the Greeks,
both at sea and on shore, were remarkable, not only for a total want of all scientific knowledge,
but also for the absence of every shadow of discipline, and the first elements of order and
subordination. The troops consisted of a number of separate corps, each under its own captain,
who regulated the movements, and provided for the supply of his men, from day to day. Every
soldier joined his standard, and left it, when he thought fit, unless when it happened that
he had received some pay in advance; in which case, he was bound in honour to remain in the
camp for the term he was engaged. With such an army, any systematic plan of campaign, and all
strategetical combinations, were clearly impossible; and when they have been attempted by the
different European officers who have commanded the Greeks, they have invariably ended in the
most complete defeats the Greeks have ever sustained. So entirely were the operations of the
war an affair of chance, that the mountain skirmishes, in which the Greek troops excelled,
were usually brought on by accident.

In such an army, it is evident that the services of many an able officer would be useless.
A Greek general could only acquire and maintain a due influence over his troops by taking a
rifle in his hand, and bounding over the rocks in advance of his soldiers. The best general,
therefore, in the estimation of the soldiers, was the officer who could run fastest, see furthest,
and fire with truest aim from behind the smallest possible projection of a rock. In cases where
it became absolutely necessary to enforce obedience to an order, the captain required to be
both able and willing to knock down the first man who dared to show any signs of dissatisfaction
with the butt of his pistol. Many excellent European generals were not competent to emulate
the fame to be gained in such a service.

Matters were very little better in the fleet. The sailors were always paid in advance, or they
refused to embark; if on a cruise, when the term for which they had been paid expired, they
always returned home, unless prevented by an additional payment. While at sea, they frequently
held councils to discuss the movements of their ships, and repeatedly compelled their captains
to alter the plans adopted by the admiral; and sometimes they have been known to carry their
ships home in defiance of their officers. Even the brilliant exploits of the fire-ships which
destroyed the Turkish three-deckers, were entirely performed by volunteers, and are rather
due to the daring courage of Kanaris, and a few other individuals, than to the naval skill
of the Greek fleet. In the latter years of the war, when the Turks and Egyptians had, by the
exertions of Sultan Mahmoud and Mohammed Ali, made some small progress in naval affairs, the
fire-ships of the Greeks failed to produce any important results.

Captain Hastings, observing the total difference between Greek and European warfare, avoided
the error into which foreigners generally fell, of allowing their authority to be mixed up
with that of others, over whose actions they could not exercise any efficient control. Instead
of seeking a command, the imposing title of which might flatter his vanity, and impose on the
rest of Europe, Hastings steadily refused to accept any rank, or place himself in any command,
where he would have been unable to enforce obedience to his orders. By this means, and by the
sacrifice of very large sums of money from his private fortune, in paying not only the men,
but even all the officers who bore commissions on board the Karteria, he was enabled to maintain
some order and discipline in that vessel. Though he was at the head of the smallest detached
force commanded by a foreigner in Greece, there can be no doubt that, of all the foreigners
who have visited Greece, he rendered the greatest service to the cause of her independence.
At the same time, it is not wonderful that all other foreigners have felt but little inclined
to give the due meed of praise to a line of conduct which they have never had strength of mind
to imitate.

It may be observed here, that the naval operations of Captain Hastings possess considerable
interest in connexion with the modern history of maritime warfare in Europe. The Karteria was
the first steam-vessel armed with long sixty-eight pounders; she was the first vessel from
which eight-inch shells and hot shot were used as ordinary projectiles. And this great change
in the employment of destructive elements of warfare was introduced by Captain Hastings among
a people where he had to teach the first principles of military discipline. Yet he overcame
every difficulty; and with very little assistance, either from the Greek government, or the
officers who were his superiors in the Greek navy, he succeeded in giving all the naval powers
of Europe a valuable practical lesson in marine artillery. Great Britain is especially called
upon to acknowledge her obligations to Captain Hastings. She has imitated the armament of the
Greek steam-frigate Karteria in several vessels; and though the admiralty have doubtless added
many improvements in our ships, we are only the more explicitly bound to recognise the debt
of gratitude we owe. By rendering naval warfare not only more destructive, but at the same
time making it more dependent on a combination of good gunnery and mechanical knowledge with
profound naval skill, he has increased the naval power of Great Britain, where all these qualities
are cultivated in the highest degree. At the same time, the civilized world is indebted to
him for rendering battles so terrible as to be henceforth less frequent; and for putting an
end to naval warfare as a means of amusing kings, and gratifying the ambition of princely admirals,
or vain-glorious states.

In concluding this sketch of the biography of Hastings, we regret that we have to record the
death of Colonel Hane of the Greek army, so long his companion during the war, and who is so
often and so honourably mentioned in his despatches as Captain Hane of the artillery. His death
is another blot on Greece, and on what is called the English party in Greece, by whom he was
treated with the greatest neglect. Colonel Hane was removed from active employment in 1842,
when King Otho placed many Philhellenes and Greeks on a trifling pittance of half-pay, in order
to retain a number of Bavarian officers in his service, who were richly endowed with staff-appointments.
As a Philhellene, a constitutionalist, and an Englishman, it was natural that Colonel Hane
should be treated with the utmost severity by the court and the Bavarian administration.

The adoption of the constitution on the 15th September (3d O.S.) 1843, caused all the Bavarians
to be dismissed from the Greek service; but there were so many Greeks more eager in their solicitations
for appointments than Colonel Hane, and ministers are always so much more ready to listen to
the claims of their party than their country, that the title of a stranger to the gratitude
of Greece was easily forgotten. When Mr Alexander Maurocordatos, however, became prime-minister,
his subserviency to English diplomacy was supposed by many to indicate a feeling of attachment
to English views, and an esteem for the English character. Under this impression, Mr Bracebridge,
Dr Howe, and Mr George Finlay, solicited Sir Edmund Lyons to exert his influence to prevent
an Englishman, who, for twenty-three years, had served Greece with courage and fidelity, from
dying of absolute want. Mr Maurocordatos gave Sir Edmund Lyons some promises, but those promises
were never fulfilled; and Colonel Hane died of a broken heart at Athens, on the 18th of September
1844, leaving a young wife and three children in the most destitute condition.

It was well known to every body in Athens, from King Otho to the youngest soldiers in the army,
that Colonel Hane had for some time suffered the severest privations of poverty, which he had
vainly endeavoured to conceal. That his last hours were soothed by the possession of the necessaries
of life, was owing to the delicacy with which Dr Howe and Mr Bracebridge contrived to make
the assistance they supplied as soothing to his mind, as it was indispensable for the comfort
of his declining health.

Frank Abney Hastings, the hero who commanded the Karteria, and John Hane, the gallant officer
who fought by his side, now rest in peace. Two volunteers, their friends and companions in
many a checkered scene of life, still survive to cherish the memory of the days spent together
on board the Karteria. One has acquired a wide-extended reputation in America and Europe, by
the intelligence, activity, and we may truly say genius, with which he has laboured to alleviate
the sufferings of humanity. But for an account of Dr Howe's exertions to extend the blessings
of education to the blind, the deaf, and the dumb, we must refer to Dickens' American Notes.
The other still watches the slow progress of the Greeks towards that free and independent condition
of which these friends of their cause once fancied they beheld the approaching dawn. We may,
therefore, allow the names of Hastings, Hane, Howe, and Finlay, to stand united on our page--

    "As in this glorious and well foughten field
    They stood together in their chivalry."

[2] "There is no one now thinks of reading Montesquieu," said the Marquis of Mirabeau, author
of L'Ami des Hommes, and a distinguished economist, to the King of Sweden, in 1772, at Paris.--See
Biog. Univ. xxix. 89.

[3] This is still the case in some parts of England, according to the custom called Borough-English,
Blackstone, ii. 93. Duhalde mentions that a similar rule of descent prevails among some of
the Tartar tribes whom he visited on the frontiers of China: a curious indication of the justice
of Montesquieu's speculation as to its origin.

[4] We were once told by Mr West, the president, that the reading of Richardson, (to use his
own words,) "lighted up a fire in his breast that had never been extinguished; and that he
had in consequence, and contrary to the wishes of his friends and relatives, who were Quakers
at Philadelphia, resolved to become a painter." By a very curious circumstance, this identical
volume is now in our possession, the legacy of the very man, whose history is worth relating,
who lent it to Mr West when a boy.

[5] Fuseli objects that the principal figures and chief action in the Raising of Lazarus, by
Sebastian del Piombo, are crowded into a corner. He would have had them "pyramid;" so does
received quackery overpower the judgment of men of sense, and acute reasoning.

[6] CHANT.

    The Theatines' commandments ten
    Have less to do with saints than men.

              Chorus.--Tra lara, tra lara.

    1--Of money make sure. Tra lara, &c.
    2--Entrap rich and poor.
    3--Always get a good dinner.
    4--In all bargains be winner.
    5--Cool your red wine with white.
    6--Turn day into night.
    7--Give the bailiff the slip.
    8--Make the world fill your scrip.
    9--Make your convert a slave.
    10--To your king play the knave.

    Chorus.--Those ten commandments make but two--
         All things for me, and none for you.
                          Tra lara, tra lara.

[7]

    Breeders of all foreign wars,
    Breeders of all household jars,
    Snugly 'scaping all the scars.

    Worshipp'd, like the saints they make;
    Tyrants, forcing fools to quake;
    Grasping all we brew or bake.

    All our souls and bodies ruling,
    All our passions hotly schooling,
    All our wit and wisdom fooling.

    Lords of all our goods and chattels,
    Firebrands of our bigot battles.
    When you see them, spring your rattles.

    Shun them, as you'd shun the Pest;
    Shun them, teacher, friend, and guest;
    Shun them, north, south, east, and west.

    France, her true disease has hit;
    France has made the vagrants flit;
    France has swamp'd the Jesuit.

[8] The Discovery of the Science of Languages. By MORGAN KAVANAGH. London: Longman, Brown,
Green, and Longmans. 1844.

[9] The poets are a little at variance, and do not all celebrate the same wine--(as some of
us like Port, and some Madeira)--some, doubtless, dealt with better wine-merchants than others.
Poets have the privilege of celebrating plain women, and wine that nobody else can drink. Redi
talks of Monte Fiascone and Monte Pulciano--both raisin wines to English or French stomachs.
Florence had no fame in those days, and now makes by far the best wine in Italy--give us good
Chianti, and none of your Aleatico or Vino Santo. At Rome, there is not a flask of any thing
fit to drink; and we recollect when bad Spanish wine was brought up the Tiber to meet the deficiency.
Orvieto is far from wholesome; yet, in Juvenal's time, Albano furnished a wine of superlative
quality.

    "Albani veteris pretiosa senectus;"

the same passage denouncing Falernian by the epithet of acris--a wine, he says, to make faces
at. Again, Cuma and Gaurus--the privilege of drinking those wines was for the rich only--are
now the common drink of the peasants who cultivate them.

    "Te Trifolinus ager fecundis vitibus implet,
    Suspectumque jugum Cumis, et Gaurus inanis."

The vinum Setinum, wine fit for patriots to drink "on the birthdays of Brutus and Cassius,"
was never heard of by a subject of the Pope, nor would be worth above a paul a flask. But the
day is far off when Italy will quaff a generous goblet on any such solemnity, or pour out a cup

    "Quale coronati Thrasca, Helvidiusque bibebant,
    Brut rum et Cassî natablibus."

[10] During the dissensions of the Regency and the corps diplomatique, old Kolocotroni, who
was then confined in the fortress above the town of Nauplia, once remarked--"These Franks abuse
us for quarrelling, but"--and here he threw out his right hand with the fingers wide apart
towards the town of Nauplia below him, exclaiming, [Greek: na], with true Greek energy--"they
worry one another like dogs--to unshame us." [Greek: Trôgountai san schulia dia na mas exentropiasan.]

[11] Published by RIDGWAY. 1828.

[12] In a description of the engagement, forwarded by the Austrian consul at Patras to the
consul-general in the Ionian islands, which was captured by the Greeks, the following is the
account given by the Austrians:--"Il commandante della flottiglia Ottomana con terzo del Vapore
andò per aria, avendogli questo gettato una granata in Santa Barbara."

  Misprints corrected:
    "Lairisse" corrected to "Lairesse" (page 429)
    "sb ject" corrected to "subject" (page 464)
    unnecessary leading "ac-" removed (page 466)
    "head" to "heard" (page 480)
    "ruler" corrected to "rule"

