The young artist, in his eighth year, began to show a manly intellect. It was in the third
tour through Germany to Paris, London. &c. that the fame of Mozart extended throughout Europe;
but as many particulars of this period of his life are already known, from the account published
by Daines Barrington in the Philosophical Transactions, the Letters of Baron Grimm, and other
sources, we shall only notice the newest and most interesting incidents of this part of the
Biography. From Wasserburg, Leopold Mozart writes, "We went up to the organ to amuse ourselves,
where I explained the pedals to Wolfgang. He began instantly to make an attempt with them,
pushed back the stool and preluded standing, treading the bass to his harmonies as if he had
practised for months." The violin-playing of Nardini, whom the party heard at Ludwigsberg,
is much praised by Leopold Mozart for the neatness of the execution, and the beauty and equality
of the tone. At Frankfort, Wolfgang one morning on waking began to cry. His father asked him
the reason. He said he was so sorry at not being able to see his friends Hagenaur, Wenzl, Spitzeder,
and Reibl. Though the children performed before all the persons of distinction they met on
their route, yet as they were often rewarded with costly presents, swords, snuff-boxes, trinkets,
&c. instead of money, the father had much anxiety on this account. He says, in a letter from
Brussels, "At Aix we saw the Princess Amelia, sister to the King of Prussia, but she has no
money. If the kisses which she gave my children, especially to Master Wolfgang, had been louis
d'ors, we might have rejoiced." In Paris, little Mozart performed feats which would have done
honour to an experienced Kapellmeister, transposing at sight, into any key whatever, any airs
which were placed before him, writing the melody to a bass, or the bass to a melody, with the
utmost facility and without premeditation. His deep acquaintance with harmony and modulation
surprised every one, and his organ-playing was particularly admired. A very pleasant picture
of the musical family was painted in Paris, of which an engraving is given in the Biography.
Mozart's sister relates, that when they were at Versailles, Madame de Pompadour had her brother
placed upon a table, and that as he approached to salute her, she turned away from him; upon
which he said indignantly, "I wonder who she is, that she will not kiss me--the empress has
kissed me!" At Versailles the whole court was present to hear the little boy of eight years
play upon the organ, and he was moreover treated by the royal family with great distinction,
particularly by the queen. When she dined in public, young Mozart had the honour to stand near
her, to converse with her constantly, and now and then to receive some delicacy from her hand.
The father writes, "the queen speaks as good German as we do. As, however, the king understands
nothing of it, the queen interprets all that our heroic Wolfgang says."

(To be concluded in our next.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

  SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ATTACHMENT.

Mr. Best, in his Memorials, says, I told my friend, Sir J., that Mr. ---- said, that among
other fishes good for food, he was particularly attached to a smelt. "---- him;" said Sir J.,
"I wish a smelt was attached to him--to his nose for a week, till it stank, and cured him of
his attachment."

       *       *       *       *       *

WINE.

