THE OLD CASTLE

                                 AND

                            Other Stories.

                   LONDON: THOMAS NELSON AND SONS.

                       EDINBURGH; AND NEW YORK.

                                1881.

       *       *       *       *       *

Contents.

THE OLD CASTLE,

GEORGE AND ALICK,

THE SIXPENNY CALICO,

A WESTMORELAND STORY,

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OLD CASTLE.

How pleasant the parlour looked on the evening of "Flaxy's" birthday. To be sure it was November,
and the wind was setting the poor dying leaves in a miserable shiver with some dreadful story
of an iceberg he had just been visiting. But what cared Dicky and Prue, or Dudley and Flaxy,
or all the rest sitting cosily around that charming fire, which glowed as if some kind fairy
had filled up the little black grate with carbuncles and rubies? Over the mantle-piece were
branches of pretty white sperm candles, whose light fell softly on the heavy red curtains and
the roses in the carpet, and danced in the eyes of the happy children.

They, the children, had been having a "splendid time." They had played games, and put together
dissected maps, and tried puzzles, and read in Flaxy's wonderful books; and since tea they
had had a grand romp at "fox and geese," even such big boys as Bernard and Dudley joining in;
and now they were resting with pretty red cheeks and parted mouths.

"Well, what shall we do now?" cried little Prue, who could not bear that a minute of the precious
time should be wasted in mere sitting still.

"Why, isn't it a good time for some one else to tell his story?" asked Flaxy.

"Just the thing," was the unanimous response. "Another story! a story!" and then a voice cried,
"And let Dudley Wylde tell it."

"Well," said Dudley, slowly, "if I must tell a true story about myself, I'm afraid it won't
be much to my credit, but as Flaxy wasn't a coward about it, I'll try to be as brave as a girl.
Shall I tell you something that happened to Bernard and me when we lived over in England?"

"Oh, please don't tell that story, Dud," pleaded Bernard with reddening cheeks, but all the
rest cried, "Oh, yes, go on, go on," and Dudley began.

"You all know that Bernard and I were both left orphans when we were almost little babies,
and Uncle Wylde sent for us to come and live with him--me first, and Bernard about a year afterwards.
I was only six years old when Bernard came, but I remember I was very angry about it. Old Joe,
the coachman, and I, had had a quarrel that morning, and he told me uncle 'would never care
for me any more after Cousin Bernard came, for he was a much finer boy than I, and looked like
a young English lord, with his blue eyes and white skin, but I was a little, dark, ill-tempered
foreigner (my mother was Italian, you know), and he wondered how uncle could like me at all.'"

"But uncle did love you dearly, you know," broke in Bernard.

"A great deal better than I deserved, that's certain," said Dudley, "but I almost worshipped
him, and I couldn't bear the thoughts of his loving any one better than me. So all the day
that Bernard was expected I stood sulkily by the window, and would not play, nor eat, nor even
speak when Uncle Wylde came and took me in his lap.

"'Poor child,' said uncle, at last, 'he needs some one of his own age to play with. I hope
the little cousins will be fine company for each other.'

"Just then the carriage drove up, and uncle ran out and took such a lovely little boy in his
arms; but when I heard him say, almost with a sob, 'Darling child, you are just the image of
your dear, dear mother,' then I thought, 'There, it is all true what Joe said, uncle loves
him the best already;' and I bit my fingers so that when uncle bade me hold out my hand to
my cousin, he was frightened to see it covered with blood, and drew back with a shiver; and
then I grew angry about that, too, and called him 'proud,' and went and hid away every plaything
I could find.

"Well, I won't have time to tell you every little thing, only that as Bernard and I grew up
together, I did not love him any better. He was almost always kind and good."

"Now Dud, you must not say so," said Bernard, blushing. "I did everything to tease you."

"You must not interrupt," cried Dudley. "This is my story, remember. You never teased me much,
but the great thing I couldn't forgive you was that uncle loved you best."

"No, I'm sure he didn't," cried Bernard.

"No more interruptions," said all the children, and Dudley went on.

"Well, you see I was very suspicious and miserable, and I always thought Bernard wanted to
make fun of me. When he first began to call me 'Dud,' for short, I thought he meant that I
was like the old rags that Joe used to clean the carriages with, for he always used to call
them 'old duds.' And then sometimes when I came in from riding on Lightfoot's bare back, with
my hair blown every sort of a way, if he said, 'Shall we have our lessons now, uncle? here
comes Wylde,' I always thought he was trying to make uncle think I was wild like those horrid
Indians we used to read about, while he, Bernard, was always neat and smooth like a little
gentleman. So you see there was nothing that Bernard could do or say, that I did not twist
around to make myself miserable.

"One day, when I had been playing with my dog Sambo half the morning, and riding Lightfoot
the rest of the time, I was called on to recite Latin to uncle, and didn't know one word. But
Bernard recited like a book, and when it was over, uncle did not scold me, he never did, but
just gave Bernard the pretty picture I had long been wanting, of the boy climbing up over crag
and ice, shouting 'Excelsior.'

"That very afternoon we had planned to take a walk together to an old ruined castle, but I
was so cross and sullen I wonder Bernard did not slip away and go alone. I can't begin to tell
you how envious and unhappy I felt, and I quarrelled so with him about every little thing,
that at last he scarcely opened his mouth."

"I don't believe this story is true," said Flaxy indignantly. "I'm sure the Dudley Wylde we
know was never so bad and quarrelsome."

Dudley smiled, while Bettine whispered softly, "But he's different now, Flaxy. Do you know
his uncle says he is trying to be a Christian?"

Flaxy looked up with a bright tear of sympathy, as Dudley continued.

"At last we reached the castle, where we had often been before, and for a while I was more
good-natured, for there was nothing I liked better than climbing up and down the broken stairway,
which wound round and round like a great screw, or looking into every queer little room hid
away in the thick walls, or climbing to the turrets to wave my handkerchief like the flag of
a conquering hero.

"But this afternoon there was something new to see. In the great hall just under the stairs,
the floor had lately caved away, and you could see down into a deep vault. Bernard and I lay
down with our faces just over the edge, and tried to see the bottom, but it was dark as pitch,
and we couldn't make out anything.

"'I shouldn't wonder if they buried dead people there, a great while ago,' said Bernard, with
a little shiver; and when we both got up, feeling very sober, he said, just to raise our spirits,--

"'Let's have a race up the steps, and see which will get to the roof first.'

"Off we started. I could generally climb like a wild cat, but in some way I stumbled and hurt
my knee, and Bernard gained very fast. I felt my quick temper rising again. 'Shall he beat
me in everything?' I said to myself, and with a great spring I caught up to him, and seized
his jacket. Then began a struggle. Bernard cried 'Fair play,' and tried to throw me off; but
I was very angry, and strong as a young tiger, and all of a sudden--for I didn't know what
I was about--I just flung him with all my might right over the edge, where the railing was
half broken down!"

"Oh dear! oh dear!" cried little Prue, bursting into tears, "did it kill him?"

A merry laugh from Bernard, followed by a hearty chorus from the rest, restored bewildered
little Prue to her senses. But Dudley went on very soberly.

"Bernard screamed as he went over, and with that scream all my anger died in a minute, and
I sat down on the stairs, shaking from head to foot. Then I listened, but I didn't hear a sound.
I don't know how long I sat there, but at last I got up very slowly, and began to come down
just like an old man. It was so dreadfully still in the old castle, that I felt in a queer
way, as if I must be very careful, too, and I stepped on my tip-toes, and held my breath. When
I got to the foot, I felt as if a big hand held my heart tight, and when I tried to walk towards
the spot where I thought Bernard must have fallen, I could not move a step. But after a great
while--it seemed like a year--I managed to drag myself to the place, and, do you know, no one
was there!"

"Why, where could he be?" cried the astonished children.

"Well, I thought he might have fallen, and rolled off under the stairs into that dreadful vault."

"Oh, don't have him get in there, please," cried tender little Prue.

"Then," said Dudley slowly, "I leaned over the vault, and called his name, 'Bernard! Bernard!'
and then I jumped back, and almost screamed, for I thought some other boy had spoken. I did
not know my own voice; it sounded so strange and solemn. But no one answered, and I dragged
myself away, feeling as if that awful hand grew tighter on my heart, and thinking, as I went
out of the door, how two of us went in, and why I was coming out alone. Then I sat down on
the grass, and though it was warm summer weather, I shivered from head to foot, and I remember
thinking to myself, 'This queer boy sitting here isn't Dudley Wylde--this boy couldn't get
angry, he's as cold as an icicle--and Dudley Wylde's heart used to beat, beat, oh! so lively
and quick, but this boy's heart is under a great weight, and will never stir again--this boy
will never run again, nor laugh, nor care for anything--this boy isn't, he can't be Dudley
Wylde;' and I felt so sorry for him I almost cried. Then, all of a sudden, I remember, I began
to work very hard. I picked up stones out of the path, and carried them a great way off, and
worked till I was just ready to drop. Then I took some flowers, and picked them all to pieces--so
curious to see how they were put together, and I worked at that till I was nearly wild with
headache. Then I sat very still, and wondered if that boy who wasn't, couldn't be, Dudley Wylde--was
ever going home; and then I thought that perhaps if he sat there a little while longer he would
die, and that was the best thing that could happen to him, for then he would never hear any
one say--'Where is Bernard?' So I sat there in this queer way, waiting for the boy to die,
when I heard a noise, and, looking up, saw--"

"Oh, what?" cried little Prue, clasping her hands, "a griffin, with claws?"

But Dudley could not speak, and Bernard went on. "It's too bad for 'Dud' to tell that story,
when he makes himself so much worse than he really was. I was as much to blame as he in that
quarrel, and I ought to have had my share of the misery. You see, when he threw me over, my
tippet caught on the rough edge of the railing, and held me just a minute, but that minute
saved me, for in some way, I hardly know how, I swung in and dropped safely on the steps just
under 'Dud.' Then I hurried into one of those queer little places in the wall, and hid, for
I was angry, and meant to give him a good fright; and as I happened to have a little book in
my pocket, I began to read, and got so interested that I forgot everything till it began to
grow dark. Then I hurried down, wondering that everything was so still. But when I saw 'Dud,'"
said he, turning with an affectionate glance to his cousin, "I was frightened, for he was so
changed I hardly knew him, and I was afraid he was dying. So I ran to him, and took him right
in my arms, and called him every dear name I could think of; but he only stared at me, with
the biggest, wildest eyes, you ever saw. 'Dud,' said I, 'dear fellow, what is the matter, don't
you know me?' Then all of a sudden he burst out crying. O girls! you never cried like that,
and I hope you never will,--great big sobs, and I helped him. Then he flung his arms tight
around my neck, and kissed me for the first time in his life--kissed me over and over, my cheeks
and my hair and my hands, and then he laughed, and right in the midst cried as if his heart
would break, and I began to understand that poor 'Dud' thought he had killed me. No one knows
how long we laughed and cried, and kissed each other, but when we grew a little calmer we went
back into the old castle, and on the very steps where we had our quarrel, we knelt down, holding
each other's hands, and promised always to love each other, and try to keep down our wicked
tempers."

"And we asked some one to help us to keep the resolution," said Dudley, gently.

"Well, how is it!" said little Prue with a bewildered air; "was it you and 'Dud' that went
and knelt on the steps to pray?"

"Yes, 'Dud' and I."

"Well then, what became of that other wicked boy that wasn't Dudley Wylde at all?"

Another shout covered poor Prue with confusion, as Bernard answered,--

"Would you believe it, you dear little Prue, we have never seen anything of him from that day
to this?"

GEORGE AND ALICK.

"Well, you know, Annie, it is all very well to try to be kind to and help nice people--people
whom you like. It is the nicest thing in the world to help you, Annie, because you are always
so good, and kind, and gentle. But there are people to whom I never could be kind, let me try
ever so much."

"But Georgie," his sister began.

He interrupted her with some impatience.

"Oh, I know what you are going to say. You always say that we ought to like everybody. But
that is nonsense. Everybody is not likable, and I don't like people who are not likable, and
I never shall, and never can."

"I did not mean to say that. I don't always say it; I don't think I ever said it," she answered
quietly. "I know that one cannot like people who are not likable. But Georgie," (with much
earnestness,) "I know, and you know, that it is God's will, that it is God's command, that
we should be kind, and tender, and gentle, and pitiful to every one, whether we like them or not."

Yes, Georgie did know that. Often had he been reminded of it. But as this was a command he
often broke, he did not like to think of it. He moved restlessly and impatiently on his chair,
and said, with some fretfulness:--

"Well, but how can one; at least how can a rough boy like me? You can, Annie, I know. You do.
Although you are often confined to this stupid bed for weeks at a time, you do more good, and
make more people happy and comfortable, than any one in all the house. You are so good. It
is easy for you."

"No, Georgie, it is not easy for me," she answered, her sweet, pale face, flushing at his praise.
"I am not always kind. But a thought came into my mind about a year ago that has always helped
me a great deal. I think God must have put it into my mind. Indeed I am sure he did, it has
helped me so much."

"And what was the thought?" George asked eagerly.

"I was thinking how difficult it was to feel kindly, to feel rightly towards those whom we
don't care for, who are not pleasant; and then it came all in a minute into my head, that we
should find it much easier if we could only remember ever and always that everybody we meet
must be either God's friend or God's enemy."

"But how could that help?" George asked, knitting his brows, as if greatly puzzled.

Annie tried to explain.

"You know," she said, "that there are no two ways about it,--that we must either be God's friend
or his enemy."

"Yes," he answered thoughtfully; "papa made me see that long ago."

"And every boy you meet is either the one or the other, whatever else he may be, nice or not,
pleasant and likable, or unpleasant and unlikable. If he be God's friend--if he be a boy who
loves our dear Lord Jesus Christ," she went on, with an earnestness of feeling which brought
tears to her eyes,--"a boy whom Christ loves, and for whom he died--a boy that Christ cares
for, and is ever watching over, and in whose troubles and pleasures, joys and sorrows, Christ
is tenderly concerned--O Georgie, if he be Christ's friend, must not we like to be kind to
and help him, to do him as much good and as little harm as we can?"

"Yes, yes, I see," he answered softly, and with much feeling. Annie went on.

"And if he be a boy who does not love God," she said solemnly, "then must he be one of the
wicked with whom God says that he is angry every day. And oh, Georgie, think what it must be
to have God angry with you every day! to go through the world without God, never to think of
him with love! to have no God to serve, no God to care for you; never to have your troubles
made easy by knowing that the loving God has sent them, never to have your joys made sweet
because they are his loving gift! O Georgie, how dreary, how desolate! Can you help being pitiful
to any one who is in such a state?"

"No, oh no," was said by Georgie's eyes even more earnestly than by his tongue. He said no
more; for boys cannot speak of what they feel so readily as girls. But Annie's thought had
gone deep into his heart, and as he went a few minutes after down towards the village on an
errand for his father, his whole thoughts were occupied by it. Much more soberly than usual
did he walk down the avenue, thinking over again all that Annie had said, and praying earnestly
that God would keep it in his memory, and bring it strongly before him each time he had occasion
to use it.

Such occasion was close at hand. As he came out of the gate into the road, he saw, a little
way before him, a boy who, as he feared--nay, rather as he knew--was one of those wicked of
whom Annie had been speaking. His name was Alick. Poor fellow, he was a cripple; he had been
a cripple from his very babyhood. He had never been able to put his feet to the ground, to
walk or run about like other boys, but could only get along slowly and painfully by the help
of crutches. He was besides very delicate, and often suffered violent attacks of pain in his
back and limbs, so that every one must have felt sorry for him, had he not been such a bad,
cruel, selfish boy, that anger often drove pity away from the softest hearts. But there was
this excuse for him, he had never had any one to teach him better. His mother died when he
was a baby. His father was very rich, but was a coarse, hard man--one who, like the unjust
judge, feared not God, nor regarded man. He was fond of his poor boy, who was his only child,
but he showed his fondness by indulging his every wish, and suffering him to do in all things
exactly as he pleased. So that Alick grew more and more wicked, cruel, and selfish every year,
until he had come to be disliked and avoided by every one who knew him. Georgie had a particular
dislike to him. For Alick, knowing that Georgie was far too brave to strike a cripple who could
not help himself, took the greatest pleasure in teasing, and provoking, and working him up
into passions which George could not vent upon him.

The two boys saw each other a good while before they met, and Alick had time to prepare a taunting
speech which he knew would be particularly provoking to George. But George also had time to
think of Alick, time to recollect what Annie had said about the utter dreariness of going through
the world without God; and God, answering George's earnest prayer, caused this recollection
to move his heart to the tenderest pity and concern for poor Alick. So when the mocking, provoking
speech was given forth in the bitterest way, George's only answer was a look of tender, even
of loving compassion.

Alick misunderstood George's feeling. He thought that look was meant to express pity for his
infirmities, and pity on that account he could not bear. His cheek flushed crimson with anger,
and he poured forth a volley of fearful oaths and curses upon George, who was now passing him
upon the opposite side of the road. Again George only answered with that look so strangely
full of deep, tender pity, that Alick's heart was stirred by it, he knew not how nor why. He
felt half provoked, as if he were being cheated out of his anger, and taking up a small stone
from the old wall against which he leaned, he threw it at George, hitting him pretty smartly
upon the arm. George took no further notice than merely to turn round and walk backward, so
as to be able to watch for and avoid future compliments of the same kind. Many such were sent
after him without effect. But just as he was getting beyond reach, Alick, in a last violent
effort to throw far enough, overbalanced himself, one crutch slipped from under him, and he
fell forward on his face in the mud!

In an instant George was by his side, helping him to rise, and asking tenderly if he were hurt.
He was covered with mud from head to foot, his face was sorely cut and bruised by some sharp
stones lying under the mud, and his teeth had cut through his upper lip. Georgie raised him
into a sitting posture, and did all he could for him. A little burn ran by the way-side. Georgie
dipped his handkerchief in it, and kneeling beside him, tried to wash away the mud and blood
from his face with the utmost tenderness and gentleness, saying all the time words of kindness
and concern, and giving him those looks of deep, wistful pity.

At first Alick submitted to his kind offices without speaking; but after a few minutes he turned
his head from him with a fretful, impatient, "There, that'll do," and stretched out his hand
for his crutches. Georgie brought them to him, and helped him to get upon them. But poor Alick
had severely sprained his shoulder in trying to save himself as he fell, and the attempt to
use his crutches gave him the most violent pain. Selfish boys are never manly. They always
think too much of their own troubles. This new pain, and the fear that he should not be able
to get home, were too much for Alick. He gave way to a most unrestrained fit of crying. At
another time George would have been either provoked or amused at the big boy crying thus like
a baby. But now the pity God had planted in his heart swallowed up every other feeling. He
thought only of comforting and helping him.

"Oh, don't cry," he said encouragingly; "I'll get you home, never fear. See, sit here a minute,
and I'll run for Annie's garden-chair, and wheel you home in it." And having seated him comfortably
leaning against the wall, he ran off, and was back with the chair before even the impatient
Alick could have expected him.

It was not easy to drive the chair through the soft mud, where hidden stones, were constantly
turning aside the wheels, jarring George's arms, and calling forth bitter complaints from the
fretful Alick. But Georgie bore complaints and jarrings with equal patience and kindly good
humour, and as the homes of the two boys were not far apart, he got Alick safe to his own door
in no very long time.

The next afternoon when Georgie came home from school, he heard from his mother that the doctor
had been there to see Annie, and had told them that Alick was very ill. He had sprained his
back as well as his shoulder, and was suffering great pain, and must, the doctor said, be confined
to bed for many weeks. Georgie felt very sorry for him.

"Sickness and pain are bad enough," he thought, "even when one can feel that it is our good
and loving Father who has sent them; but what must they be to him?" And he asked his mother's
leave to go to see if he could be of any use to Alick. His mother consented, and resolutely
turning his mind from the cricket-match just beginning in the school-yard, George went.

He found the poor boy in a pitiable state. His face was swelled from the effect of the cuts
and bruises; one eye was quite closed up, and the other he could only open a little way, for
a minute at a time. He could not turn himself in bed,--the sprained arm was bound to his side;
he could do nothing to amuse himself; and in that motherless, sisterless home, there was no
one to devise amusement for him. His father was kind and anxious about him; but it never occurred
to him to sit by his bedside, and try to make the time pass pleasantly; and even if it had
occurred to him, he would not have known how to do it. All that money could buy Alick had in
abundance; but tenderness and kind companionship were what he most wanted, and these could
not be bought.

He seemed pleased to see Georgie, and gladly accepted his offer to sit for a little with him
and read to him. Georgie read aloud very well, and with great spirit, and Alick was delighted
with an amusement which was quite new to him. The hour Georgie was allowed to give him passed
most delightfully, and when Georgie rose to go away, he was eagerly asked to come back the
next day.

The next, and the next, and many succeeding afternoons, Georgie spent by Alick's bedside, reading
or chatting to him; and when he was able to use his arms, playing with him at chess, draughts,
or any such game that Alick liked. That tender pity which God had put into Georgie's heart
for the poor wicked boy, he kept fresh and warm from day to day; and Georgie never grudged
the time or trouble which he gave to Alick,--never lost patience with him, however fretful
and unreasonable he might be, but was ever ready to do what Alick wished, whether he himself
liked it or not.

One afternoon they had played for a long time at a favourite game of Alick's, but one which
Georgie thought very tiresome.

"Well, that is one of the nicest games in the world," said Alick, stretching himself back upon
his pillows when the game was done. "Isn't it? Don't you like it?"

"No," said Georgie, looking up with an amused smile; "I don't like it much."

"Why then did you play so long without saying that you did not like it?" Alick asked, much
surprised.

"Because you like it. I wanted you to have what you like," Georgie answered simply; and having
put away all the things, he stooped over Alick and asked him very kindly, nay, I may say very
lovingly, if he thought he should have a better night, if he thought his pain was less than
it had been.

"Yes,--no,--I don't know," Alick said, looking earnestly up into Georgie's eyes. "But, Georgie,
I say, why do you care so much?"

"Because I am so very sorry for you," burst from Georgie's very heart.

"You well may," muttered poor Alick, glancing down at his useless, shrunken limbs. But this
time there was no anger in his thoughts.

"It is not for that, not at all for that," Georgie cried eagerly, as if guessing that pity
for his infirmities might be painful.

"For what then?" Alick asked, looking at him keenly.

"Because you do not know, you do not love God," Georgie answered with deep feeling. "O Alick,
how heartless, how dreary it must be!" and the tears rose to his eyes, and ran down his cheeks
without his knowing it.

His words, spoken in that tone of intense pity, thrilled Alick to the heart. This was the meaning
of all those looks of tender, yearning compassion which Georgie so continually cast upon him.
And was it then such a terrible thing not to know God?

Georgie's "how heartless, how dreary!" sounded again in his ears, and seemed to answer the
question. He said nothing to Georgie nor to any one; but all night long these words came back
and back to his mind. He could not get rid of them. They were pressed down into his heart by
the recollection of all that exceeding tender pity which Georgie's eyes had so long expressed
for him, and of Georgie's loving, patient kindness, during his illness. And ever deeper and
stronger grew the sense that his life was in truth, and ever had been, more heartless and dreary
than Georgie could imagine.

Next day, when Georgie came to his bedside, Alick looked him full in the face and said:--

"Georgie, can you teach me to know God?"

You may imagine how Georgie's heart leaped with joy at the question. Often had he longed to
speak to Alick of his God and Saviour, but hitherto he had been afraid to do it; not afraid
of what Alick might say to or of him, but afraid to hear him speak against the Lord whom he
had so often blasphemed. Now his mouth was opened, and in simple, boyish speech, he poured
out his heart to Alick, and told him all he knew of Christ's love in taking upon himself the
sins of those who were his enemies. And God's Spirit going with the words he taught Georgie
to speak, Alick's heart was touched, and the poor boy was brought to take Christ as his Lord
and his God.

THE SIXPENNY CALICO.

One day a new scholar appeared in school, and as usual was the mark of public gaze. She was
gentle and modest-looking, and never ventured to lift her eyes from her books. At recess, to
the inquiries, "Who is she?" "What's her name?" nobody could satisfactorily answer. None of
us ever saw or heard of her before.

"I know she's not much," said one of the girls.

"Poorly off," said I.

"Do you see her dress? Why, I believe it is nothing but a sixpenny calico."

"Poor thing, she must be cold."

"I can't imagine how a person can wear calico in winter," said another, whose rich plaid was
the admiration of the school.

"I must say I like to see a person dressed according to the season," remarked another; "that
is, if people can afford it," she added, in a manner plainly enough indicating that her father
could.

Such was recess talk. None of us went to take the stranger by the hand and welcome her as the
companion of our studies and our play. We stood aloof, and stared at her with cold and unfeeling
curiosity. The teacher called her Abby. When she first came to her place for recitation, she
took a seat beside the rich plaid. The plaid drew haughtily away, as if the sixpenny calico
might dim the beauty of its colours. A slight colour flushed Abby's cheek, but her quiet remained
the same. It was some time before she ventured on the play-ground, and then it was only to
stand aside, and look on, for we were slow in asking her to join us.

On one occasion we had a harder arithmetic lesson than usual, completely baffling our small
brains. Upon comparing notes at recess, none of us had mastered it.

"I'll ask Abby of her success," said one of my intimate associates.

"It is quite unlikely she has," I replied; "do stay here; besides, what if she has?"

"I will go," she answered.

Away she went, and as it appeared, Abby and she were the only members of the class ready for
recitation. Abby had been more successful than the rest of us, and kindly helped my friend
to scale the difficulties of the lesson.

"Shall we ask Abby to join the sleigh-ride?" asked one of the girls, who was getting a subscription
for a famous New Year's ride.

"Judging from her dress," I said, "if she goes, we must give her the ride."

"But how will it do to leave her out?" they asked.

"She does not of course expect to be asked to ride with us," I said; "she is evidently of a
poor family."

As a sort of leader in school, my words were influential, and poor Abby was left out. How often
did I contrast my white hands and warm gloves with the purple fingers and cheap mittens of
my neighbour Abby. How miserable I should be with such working hands and no gloves.

By-and-by I took to patronizing her. "She is really a very nice creature, and ought to join
us more in our plays," we said. So we used to make her "one of us" in the play-ground. In fact,
I began to thaw towards her very considerably. There was something in Abby which called out
our respect.

One Saturday afternoon, as I was looking out of the window, wishing for something to do, my
mother asked me to join her in a little walk. On went my new cloak, warm furs, and pink hat,
and in a trice I was ready. We went first to the stores, where I was very glad to be met by
several acquaintances in my handsome winter dress. At last I found my mother turning off into
less frequented thoroughfares.

"Where, mother," I asked, "in this vulgar part of the town?"

"Not vulgar, my dear," she said. "A very respectable and industrious part of our population
live here."

"Not fashionable, certainly," I added.

"And not vulgar because not fashionable, by any means," she said; for you may be sure my false
and often foolish notions were not gained from her. She stopped before a humble-looking house,
and entered the front door.

"Where are you going?" I asked with much curiosity.

She gently opened a side door, and hesitated a moment on the threshold.

"Caroline, come in," said a voice from within. "I am very happy to see you."

"Pray, don't rise, dear," said my mother, going forward and affectionately kissing a sick lady
who sat in a rocking chair. "You look better than when I saw you before. Do not exert yourself."

I was introduced, and I fancied the invalid looked at me with a sort of admiring surprise as
she took my hand and hoped I should prove worthy of such a mother. Then, while my mother and
she were talking, I sat down and took notes with my eyes of everything in the room. It looked
beautifully neat, and the furniture evidently had seen better days. By-and-by mother asked
for her daughter.

"Gone out on some errands," said the sick lady. "The dear child is an inexpressible blessing
to me," and tears filled her eyes.

"A mother might well be thankful for such a daughter. She is a pattern my child might safely
imitate."

I thought I should be exceedingly glad to see the person my mother was so willing I should copy.

"She will return soon," said the invalid. "She has gone to carry some work which she has contrived
to do in her leisure moments. The self-sacrifice of the child is wonderful. She seems to desire
nothing that other girls of her age generally want. A little while ago, an early friend who
had found me out and befriended me as you have done"--tears came into the speaker's eyes--"sent
her a handsome winter dress. 'O mother,' she said, 'this is too expensive for me, when you
want some warm flannel so.' I told her it was just what she needed. A few days afterwards she
went out and came home with a roll of flannel and a calico dress. 'See, mother,' she said,
'I shall enjoy this calico a hundred times more than the finest dress in the world, when you
can have your flannel.' Excuse me for telling it, but you know a mother's heart. There is her
step; she is coming."

The outer door opened. How I longed to see the comer! "A perfect angel," I thought, "so generous,
so disinterested, so good; I should love her." The latch was lifted. A young girl entered,
and my school-fellow Abby stood before me! I could have sunk into the earth for very shame.
How wicked my pride! how false and foolish my judgments! Oh, how mean did my fine winter dress
appear before the plain sixpenny calico!

I was almost sure my mother had managed all this, for she had a way of making me see my faults,
and making me desire to cure them, without ever saying much directly herself. This, however,
had not come about by her intervention; God taught me by his providence.

As we walked home, my mother gave me an account of Mrs. G----, an early friend who made an
imprudent marriage. But that story is no matter here. I will only add, my judgment of people
was formed ever after according to a better standard than the dress they wore, and that Abby
and I became intimate friends.

A WESTMORELAND STORY.

Who among my little readers are not older than ten years? Come and I shall tell you a story
of what happened to six poor children, all under that age, about fifty years ago. It will be
a good lesson for us all, to see what God helped one brave little girl to do.

Agnes Green was nine years old, and had five brothers and sisters younger than herself. Their
father was a respectable working man, and they all lived in a small cottage in a wild valley
of the mountains of Westmoreland. If you take a good map of England, and look in the north
for Westmoreland, you may see Grasmere marked. It is the name of a beautiful valley and also
of a lake and a village in it. Beyond this is a smaller valley called Easdale, quite surrounded
by high hills, with just one narrow opening into Grasmere. Here, in a lonely cottage, the Greens
lived. In fair weather the older children could go to the Grasmere school. Their mother did
all she could to keep them neat and comfortable; but she could not afford to have a servant,
and so little Agnes was taught to do many more things than are common at her age. She was a
very good and clever child, and learned to milk the cow, mend the fire, cook the dinner, nurse
the little ones--do all that was possible for her age and strength. Which of you is at all
like her? You may say, perhaps, that there is no need for you to learn such things. But you
cannot begin too soon to be useful. Had poor Agnes been as helpless as some of you, she and
her brothers and sisters must have died of cold and hunger in the sad time I am going to tell
you of.

One winter day, Mr. and Mrs. Green had business which made them very anxious to go to a farm-house
at some distance from Easdale. There was snow on the ground, but the morning was fine; and
to save a long road round by Grasmere, they determined to take a short cut right over the mountains,
which they had sometimes done before. So Mrs. Green made everything straight for the day, bidding
Agnes take good care of the little ones, and expect her and their father back in the evening
before dark; and then both parents kissed the children, and set out on the journey, from which
they were never to return. They got safe to the farm, where a number of people were assembled
at a sale, did their business, and said they would go home by the same way, although many of
their friends advised them not to attempt it, for more snow was evidently coming on.

Evening came, and Agnes made a bright peat fire, which all the children gathered round, expecting
every minute to hear their parents' voices at the door. But it began to get dark and late,
and still they did not come. Agnes had often heard of the dangers of snow among the hills,
and she soon got uneasy. Her little brothers were afraid too, though they hardly knew for what.
They listened to every sound of the wind; they started at times, thinking it was their father's
step; but all in vain. At last Agnes said they must go to bed; and as they had all been well
trained to be obedient, they came and said their prayers at her knees, and then went to rest
with fearful hearts.

