And when he must be off, I kissed him lightly; for success brings security, and I was growing
accustomed to these partings; but he drew me to his breast, struck by some pang of coming evil,
and called me mother. Ah! then my heart yearned over my little boy, and I would fain have stayed
his going; but, dashing the tears from his eyes, he hurried away, nor looked behind him once.

All through the winter, which for him was summer, my heart lay lightly in its place, and I
waited calmly the coming of the end. The struggle was almost over; the storm-cloud had rolled
back, after deluging the land in blood; in this consecrated soil slavery was forever buried;
the temple of freedom was reared in the name of all men, and the dove of peace sat brooding
in its eaves.

All this my little boy had said must come to pass before he sheathed his sword; and this had
come to pass.

He had marched "to the sea," my conquering hero, and was "coming up," crowned with new laurels.
I was waiting the fulness of time, lulled with the fulness of content. Sherman had gathered
his hosts for another combat,--the last,--and then the work would be done, and well done. Thus
wrote my little boy; and my heart echoed his words, "well done."

This battle-day I worked out of doors from morning until night, seeking to bring order and
beauty out of confusion and decay, striving to have all things ready when he came. My sleep
was sweet that night, and I awoke with these words in my mind:--

    "Lord, in the morning Thou shall hear
      My voice ascending high."

The sun streamed in through the eastern window, and all the hills beyond were bathed in glory;
the earth was fair to look upon, and happiness, descending from the skies, nestled in my heart.

I planted all this day, covering precious seed, thinking on their summer beauty; and, as the
evening fell, I stood at the garden gate watching the way he must come for whose coming I longed
with a longing that could not be uttered.

As I looked, idly speculating on his speed, a horseman dashed up in mad haste, his steed spent
and flecked with foam. Men do not ride so hot with good tidings,--what need to make such haste
with evil?

Still, no sense of loss, no shadow of the coming night. Peace covered my heart, and would not
be scared away. Blind infatuation! that could not see.

"Was it not then a victory?" I cried; for sadness and defeat were written in his face.

"Nay, not that." The outstretched hand turned white with pity. "But this--"

Too kind to speak the words, at sight of which I fell, struck by a bolt that, riving his heart,
through leagues of space had travelled straight to mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

Months later, when the long night had passed away, and the dawn brought patience and resignation,
one who saw him fall, gloriously, told me the story. I could bear it then; for in my soul's
eclipse I had beheld him walking on the heavenly hills, and knew that there he was waiting for me.

He lies buried, at his own request, where he fell, on Southern soil.

O pilgrim to those sacred shrines, if in your wandering ye come upon a nameless grave, marked
by a sunken sword, tread lightly above the slumbers of my little boy!

LAKE CHAMPLAIN.

    Not thoughtless let us enter thy domain;
      Well did the tribes of yore,
    Who sought the ocean from the distant plain,
      Call thee their country's door.[F]

    And as the portals of a saintly pile
      The wanderer's steps delay,
    And, while he musing roams the lofty aisle,
      Care's phantoms melt away

    In the vast realm where tender memories brood
      O'er sacred haunts of time,
    That woo his spirit to a nobler mood
      And more benignant clime,--

    So in the fane of thy majestic hills
      We meekly stand elate;
    The baffled heart a tranquil rapture fills
      Beside thy crystal gate:

    For here the incense of the cloistered pines,
      Stained windows of the sky,
    The frescoed clouds and mountains' purple shrines,
      Proclaim God's temple nigh.

    Through wild ravines thy wayward currents glide,
      Round bosky islands play;
    Here tufted headlands meet the lucent tide,
      There gleams the spacious bay;

    Untracked for ages, save when crouching flew,
      Through forest-hung defiles,
    The dusky savage in his frail canoe,
      To seek the thousand isles,

    Or rally to the fragrant cedar's shade
      The settler's crafty foe,
    With toilsome march and midnight ambuscade
      To lay his dwelling low.

    Along the far horizon's opal wall
      The dark blue summits rise,
    And o'er them rifts of misty sunshine fall,
      Or golden vapor lies.

    And over all tradition's gracious spell
      A fond allurement weaves;
    Her low refrain the moaning tempest swells,
      And thrills the whispering leaves.

    To win this virgin land,--a kingly quest,--
      Chivalric deeds were wrought;
    Long by thy marge and on thy placid breast
      The Gaul and Saxon fought.

    What cheers of triumph in thy echoes sleep!
      What brave blood dyed thy wave!
    A grass-grown rampart crowns each rugged steep,
      Each isle a hero's grave.

    And gallant squadrons manned for border fray,
      That rival standards bore,
    Sprung from thy woods and on thy bosom lay,--
      Stern warders of the shore.

    How changed since he whose name thy waters bear,
      The silent hills between,
    Led by his swarthy guides to conflict there,
      Entranced beheld the scene!

    Fleets swiftly ply where lagged the lone batteau,
      And quarries trench the gorge;
    Where waned the council-fire, now steadfast glow
      The pharos and the forge.

    On Adirondack's lake-encircled crest
      Old war-paths mark the soil,
    Where idly bivouacks the summer guest,
      And peaceful miners toil.

    Where lurked the wigwam, cultured households throng;
      Where rung the panther's yell
    Is heard the low of kine, a blithesome song,
      Or chime of village bell.

    And when, to subjugate the peopled land,
      Invaders crossed the sea,
    Rushed from thy meadow-slopes a stalwart band,
      To battle for the free.

    Nor failed the pristine valor of the race
      To guard the nation's life;
    Thy hardy sons met treason face to face,
      The foremost in the strife.

    When locusts bloom and wild-rose scents the air,
      When moonbeams fleck the stream,
    And June's long twilights crimson shadows wear,
      Here linger, gaze, and dream!

FOOTNOTES:

[F] One of the aboriginal names of Lake Champlain signifies the open door of the country.

YESTERDAY.

There is a gleam of ultramarine,--which, most of all tints, say the painters, possesses the
quality of light in itself,--banished to the farthest horizon of the ocean, where it lies all
day, a line of infinite richness, not to be drawn by Apelles, and in its compression of expanse--leagues
of sloping sea and summer calm being written in that single line--suggestive of more depth
than plummet or diver can ever reach. Such an enchantment of color deepens the farther and
interior horizon with most men,--whether it is the atmosphere of one's own identity still warming
and enriching it, or whether the orbed course of time has dropped the earthy part away, and
left only the sunbeams falling there. But Leonardo da Vinci supposed that the sky owed its
blue to the darkness of vast space behind the white lens of sunlit air; and perhaps where the
sea presents through the extent of its depth, as it slips over into other hemispheres, tangents
with the illumined atmosphere beyond, it affords a finer filter for these blue rays, and thenceforth
hoards in its heart the wealth and beauty of tint found in that line of ultramarine. Thus too,
perhaps, in the eyes of these fortunate men, every year of their deepening past presents only
a purer strain for such sunshine as is theirs, until it becomes indeed

    "The light that never was, on sea or land."

The child's conjecture of the future is one of some great, bright, busy thing beyond the hills
or over the river. But the thought is not definite: having nothing to remember, he has nothing
by which to model his idea.

The man looks back at the past in much the same manner, to be sure,--always with something
between,--if not the river or the hills, at least a breath of mist out of which rises the vision
he invokes; but the vision has a shape, precise and clear.

If it is sadness that he seeks, sadness comes, dark as the nun of the Penseroso, without a
glimmer of the countless and daily trifles of fairer aspect that made her actual presence possible
to suffer,--comes to flatter his memory with assurance of strength in having endured so much
and yet survived, or to stab him with her phantom poniards freshly and fiercely as ever,--no
diffused affair, but a positive shape of melancholy.

But if the phase to be recalled is of a cheerful sort, how completely likewise does it assert
its essence,--a sunbeam falling through that past from beginning to end. All the vexatious
annoyances of the period that then seemed to counterbalance pleasure are lost to view, and
only the rosy face of an experience that was happiness itself smiles upon him. What matter
the myriad frets that then beset him in the flesh? They were superficial substance,--burrs
that fell; he was happy in spite of them; he does not remember them; he sees nothing but the
complete content; he in fact possesses his experience only in the ideal.

It is the dropping out of detail that accomplishes this in one case and the other. In either,
the point of view alone is fixed. The rest is variable, and depends, it may be, on the nature
of that subtile and volatile ether through which each man gazes.

That the latter, the brighter vision, predominates, is as true as that sunny days outnumber
rainy ones. Though Argemone, rather than remember, may have blotted out her memory; or though
Viviani, after fifty years of renowned practice in his profession, may be unable to look back
at it without a shudder,--then endowed with youth, health, energy, ambition,--now lacking these,
the recollection of the suffering he has seen overwhelming his sensitive nature blackly and
heavily as clods of burial might do;--yet they are but those points of shadow that throw the
fact into prominence. It has been said that pain, remembered, is delight. This is true only
of physical pain. Mental agony ever remains agony; for it is the body that perishes and the
affections of the body. Still, with most men the past is an illuminated region, forever throwing
the present into the shade. In the Zend Avesta, a farsang is defined to be the space within
which a long-sighted man can see a camel and distinguish whether it be white or black; but
the milestones of the memory are even less arbitrary than this: no matter how far the glance
flies, in those distances every man's camel is white.

The maidens of to-day are not so beautiful as the maidens were when our young senses could
drink in their beauty; the St. Michael pears have died out; the blight has got possession of
the roses. When we married, a white one climbed up the house-side and thrust its snowy sprays
in at the casement of the wedding-chamber. Find us such climbers now! A young girl once on
the beach, watching her father's ship slip away on the wind, had her glance caught by a sparkle
in the sand; and there lay a treasure at her feet, a heap of crimson crystals, a mine of jewels.
What wealth! What possibilities! No more going to sea! No more watching ships out of sight!
She gathered a double-handful of the splendid cubes as earnest, and ran back to the house with
them. Such assurance having been displayed, there was no hesitation. The man-servant followed
her swift guidance to the shore again, with shovel and sack and a train of the whole household,--but
the tide had come in, and the place was not there. Day after day was search made for that mass
of garnets, but always in vain. It was one of those deposits that Hugh Miller somewhere speaks
of, as disclosed by one tide and hidden by another. But all her life long, though she wore
jewels and scattered gold, no gem rivalled the blood-red lustre of that sudden sparkle in the
sands; and no wealth equalled the fabulous dreams that were born of it. It was to her as precious
and irreparable as to the poet the Lost Bower.

          "I affirm that since I lost it
            Never bower has seemed so fair;
          Never garden-creeper crossed it,
            With so deft and brave an air;
    Never bird sang in the summer, as I saw and heard them there."

This light of other days is unfailingly, by its owners, carried over to every child they meet.
As if the caterpillar were in better estate than the butterfly, each boy is seeing his best
days. Yet there is not a child in the world but is pursued by cares. His desk-mate's marbles
oppress him more than will forcemeat-balls and turtle-soup when he becomes an alderman; there
are lessons to learn, terrible threats of telling the teacher to brave, and many a smart to
suffer. Childhood is beautiful in truth, but not therefore blest,--that is, for the little
bodiless cherubs of the canvas. It was one of Origen's fancies that the coats of skins given
to Adam and Eve on their expulsion from Paradise were their corporeal textures, and that in
Eden they had neither flesh nor blood, bones nor nerves. The opening soul, that puts back petal
after petal till the fructifying heart of it is bare to all the sweet influences of the universe,
is something lovely for older eyes to see,--perhaps no lovelier than the lawful development
of later lives to larger eyes than ours,--perhaps no lovelier than that we are to undergo.
The first moment when the force of beauty strikes a child's perceptions would be an ineffable
one, if he had anything to compare it with or measure it by; but as it is, even though it pierce
him through and through with rapture, he is not aware of that rapture till after-years reproduce
it for him and sweeten the sensation with full knowledge. The child is so dear to the parents,
because it is their own beings bound together in one; the baby is so beautiful to all, because
so sacred and mysterious. Where was this life a moment since? Whither will it fleet a moment
hence? He may be a fiend or an archangel by and by, as he and Fate together please; but now
his little skin is like a blush rose-leaf, and his little kisses are so tender and so dear!
yet it is as an object of nature that he charms, not in his identity as a sufferer of either
pain or pleasure. Childhood, by these blind worshippers of yesterday, is simply so vaunted
and so valued because it is seen again in the ideal: the detail is lost in distance; the fair
fact alone remains.

But yesterday has its uses, of more value than its idolatries. Though too often with its aerial
distances and borrowed hues it is a mere pleasure region, instead of that great reservoir from
which we might draw fountains of inexhaustible treasure, yet, if we cultivated our present
from our past, homage to it might be as much to the purpose at least as the Gheber's worship
of the sun. The past is an atmosphere weighing over each man's life. The skilful farmer with
his subsoil-plough lets down the wealthy air of the actual atmosphere into his furrows, deeper
than it ever went before; the greedy loam sucks in the nitrogen there, and one day he finds
his mould stored with ammonia, the great fertilizer, worth many a harvest. Are they numerous
who thus enrich the present with the disengaged agents of the past, the chemic powers obtained
from that superincumbent atmosphere ever elastically stretching over them? Let our farmer scatter
pulverized marble upon his soil forever,--crude carbonate of lime,--and it remains unassimilated;
but let him powder burnt bones there, and his crop uses it to golden advantage,--now merely
the phosphate of lime, but material that has passed through the operations of animal life,
of organism. With whatever manure he work his land, be it wood-ashes or guano or compost, he
knows that that which has received the action of organic tissues fattens it the best; and so
a wise man may fertilize to-day better with the facts of an experience that he has once lived
through, than with any vague and unorganized dreams. But the fool has never lived;--life, said
Bichat, is the totality of the functions;--his past has endured no more organization than his
future has; he never understood it; he can make no use of it; so he deifies it, and burns the
flying moment like a joss-stick before the wooden image in which he has caricatured all its
sweet and beneficent capabilities;--as if it were likely that one moment of his existence could
be of any more weight than another.

The sentiment which a generation feels for another long antecedent to itself, is not utterly
dissimilar from this. Its individuals being regarded with the veneration due to parents and
due to the dead, it is forgotten that they were men, and men whose lessons were necessarily
no wiser than those of the men among us; men, too, of no surpassing humility, since they presumed
to prescribe inviolable laws to ages far wiser than themselves. Yet though the philosophy of
the Greek and Roman were lost, would it need more than the years of a generation to replace
what scarcely can exceed the introspection of a single experience? If their art were lost,
does not the ideal of humanity remain the same so long as the nature of humanity endures? But
of the seven sciences of antiquity, two alone deserve the name,--their arithmetic and their
geometry. Their music was a cumbrous and complicated machinery, and the others were exercises
of wit and pleasure and superstition. It is true that the Egyptian excelled, that the Arabian
delved somewhat into the secrets of nature; but who venerates those people, and who spends
all that season in study of their language that he should spend in putting oxygen into his
blood and lime into his bones? The sensuous Greek loved beauty; he did not care to puzzle his
brain when he could please it instead. Euclid and Apollonius, indeed, carried the positive
science of mathematics to great height, but physical science is the growth of comparative to-day;
with habits of thought hampered by priesthoods and systems, the efforts of antiquity were like
abortive shoots,--it is within the last four centuries that the strong stem has sprung up,
and the plant has flowered. Neither do our youth study the classics for their science; and
yet is not the pursuit of science nobler than all other pursuits, since it leads its followers
into the mysteries of the creation and into the purposes of God? Small is the profit to be
found in recital of the fancies of heathen ages or the warfares of savage tribes. But so far
is the mere breath of the ancients exalted above this sacred search, that a university will
turn out proficients who write Greek verses by the ream, but cannot spell their own speech;
who can name you the winning athletes of the first Olympiad, but are unable to state the constituents
of the gas that lights their page, and never dream, as the chemist does, that these "sunbeams
absorbed by vegetation in the primordial ages of the earth, and buried in its depths as vegetable
fossils through immeasurable eras of time, until system upon system of slowly formed rocks
has been piled above, come forth at last, at the disenchanting touch of science, and turn the
night of civilized man into day." They can paint to you the blush of Rhodope or Phryne, till
you see the delicious color blend and mingle on the ivory of their tablets; but until, like
Agassiz, we can all of us deduce the fish from the scale, and from that blush alone deduce
the human race, we are no nearer the Divine intentions in the creation of man, for all such
lore as that. An author has somewhere asked, What signify our telegraphs, our anæsthetics,
our railways? What signifies our knowledge of the earth's structure, of the stars' courses?
Are we any the more or less men? But certainly he is the more a man, he comes nearer to God's
meaning in a man, who conquers matter, circumstance, time, and space. That one who sees the
universe move round him understandingly, and fathoms in some degree the wonder and the beauty
of the eternal laws, must be a pleasanter object to his Creator than any other who, merely
employing pleasure, makes a fetich of his luxuries, his Aldines and Elzevirs, and, dying, goes
into the unknown world no wiser concerning the ends and aims of this one than when he entered
it. Rather than periods that decay and sin might bring again, should one remember the wonderful
history of the natural world when the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. Rather
should one read the record of the rain, it seems,--the story of the weather some morning, cycles
since, with the way the wind was blowing written in the slanting drip of the rain-drops caught
and petrified on the old red sandstone,--marks of the Maker as he passed, one day, a million
years ago,--than decipher on the scroll of any palimpsest, under the light-headed visions of
an anchorite, some half-erased ode of Anacreon.

But, after all, this veneration for the ancients--who personally might be forgiven for their
misfortune in having lived when the world was young, were not one so slavish before them--is
only because again one looks at the ideal,--looks through that magical Claude Lorraine glass
which makes even the commonest landscape picturesque. We forget the dirty days of straw-strewn
floors, and see the leather hangings stamped with gold; we forget the fearful feet of sandal
shoon, but see the dust of a Triumph rising in clouds of glory. We look at that past, feeling
something like gods, too.

We cannot consider those things happening remotely from us on the earth's surface, even now,
without suffering them to partake somewhat of the property of by-gone days. It makes little
difference whether the distance be that of meridians or of eras. When at sunrise we fancy some
foreign friend beholding dawn upon the silver summits of the Alps, we are forced directly to
remember that with him day is at the noon, and his sunrise has vanished with those of all the
yesterdays,--so that even our friend becomes a being of the past; or when, bathed in the mellow
air of an autumn afternoon, the sunshine falling on us like the light of a happy smile, and
all the vaporous vistas melting in clouded sapphire, it occurs to us that possibly it is snowing
on the Mackenzie River, and night has already darkened down over the wide and awful ice-fields,--then
distance seems a paradox, and time and occasion mere phantasmagoria; there are no beings but
ourselves, there is no moment but the present; all circumstance of the world becomes apparent
to us only like pictures thrown into the perspective of the past. But, except to these blest
beholders, the inhabitants of the dead centuries are mere spectral shades; for it takes a poet's
fancy to vitalize with warmth and breath again those things that, having apparently left no
impress on their own generation, seem to have no more signification for this than the persons
of the drama or the heroes of romance.

Yet, in a far inferior way, every man is a poet to himself. In the microcosm of his own small
round, every one has the power to vivify old incident, every one raises bawbles of the desk
and drawer, not only into life, but into life they never had. With the flower whose leaves
are shed about the box, we can bring back the brilliant morning of its blossoming, desire and
hope and joyous youth once more; with the letter laid away beside it rises the dear hand that
rested on the sheet, and moved along the leaf with every line it penned: each trinket has its
pretty past, pleasant or painful to recall as it may be. There is no trifle, however vulgar,
but, looking at its previous page, it has a side in the ideal. When one at the theatre saw
so many ringlets arranged as "waterfalls," he laughed and said, they undoubtedly belonged to
the "dead-heads." But Belinda, who wears a waterfall, and at night puts it into a box, considers
the remark a profanity, and confesses that she never adorns herself with this addition but
she thinks of that girl in France who cherished her long locks, and combed them out with care
until her marriage-day, when she put on a fair white cap, and sold them for her dowry. There
are more poetic locks of hair, it must be said;--the keepsake of two lovers; the lock of Keats's
hair, too sacred to touch, lying in its precious salvatory. But that is the ideal of the past
belonging to Belinda's waterfall, a trivial, common thing enough, yet one that has a right
to its ideal, nevertheless, if we accept the ecstasies of a noted writer upon its magic material.
"In spinning and weaving," says he, "the ideal that we pursue is the hair of a woman. How far
are the softest wools, the finest cottons, from reaching it! At what an enormous distance from
this hair all our progress leaves us, and will forever leave us! We drag behind and watch with
envy this supreme perfection that every day Nature realizes in her play. This hair, fine, strong,
resistant, vibrant in light sonority, and, with all that, soft, warm, luminous, and electric,--it
is the flower of the human flower. There are idle disputes concerning the merit of its color.
What matter? The lustrous black contains and promises the flame. The blond displays it with
the splendors of the Fleece of Gold. The brown, chatoyant in the sun, appropriates the sun
itself, mingles it with its mirages, floats, undulates, varies ceaselessly in its brook-like
reflections, by moments smiles in the light or glooms in the shade, deceives always, and, whatever
you say of it, gives you the lie charmingly.--The chief effort of human industry has combined
all methods in order to exalt cotton. Rare accord of capital, machinery, arts of design, and
finally chemical science, has produced those beautiful results to which England herself renders
homage in buying them. Alas! all that cannot disguise the original poverty of the ungrateful
tissue which has been so much adorned. If woman, who clothes herself with it in vanity, and
believes herself more beautiful because of it, would but let her hair fall and unroll its waves
over the indigent richness of our most brilliant cloths, what must become of them! how humiliated
would the vestment be!--It is necessary to confess that one thing alone sustains itself beside
a woman's hair. A single fabricator can strive there. This fabricator is an insect,--the modest
silkworm."

"A particular charm surrounds the works in silk," our author then goes on to say. "It ennobles
all about it. In traversing our rudest districts, the valleys of the Ardèche, where all is
rock, where the mulberry, the chestnut, seem to dispense with earth, to live on air and flint,
where low houses of unmortared stone sadden the eyes with their gray tint, everywhere I saw
at the door, under a kind of arcade, two or three charming girls, with brown skin, with white
teeth, who smiled at the passer-by and spun gold. The passer-by, whirled on by the coach, said
to them under his breath: 'What a pity, innocent fays, that this gold may not be for you! Instead
of disguising it with a useless color, instead of disfiguring it by art, what would it not
gain by remaining itself and upon these beautiful spinners! How much better than any grand
dames would this royal tissue become yourselves!'"

Perhaps it was the dowry of one of these very maidens that Belinda wears; and all this would
only go to show that to every meanest thing the past can lend a halo. When one person showed
another the "entire costume of a Nubian woman, purchased as she wore it,"--a necklace of red
beads, and two brass ear-rings simply, hanging on a nail,--how it brought up the whole scene,
the wondrous ruins, the Nile, the lotos, and the palm-branch, the splendid sky soaring over
all, the bronze-skinned creature shining in the sun! What a past the little glass bits had
at their command, and what a more magnificent past hung yet behind them! Who would value a
diamond, the product of any laboratory, were such a possibility, so much as that one which,
by its own unknown and inscrutable process, defying philosopher and jeweller, has imprisoned
the sunshine that moss or leaf or flower sucked in, ages since, and set its crystals in the
darkness of the earth,--a drop of dew eternalized? What tree of swift and sudden springing,
that grows like a gourd in the night to never so stately a height, could equal in our eyes
the gnarled and may be stunted trunk that has thrown the flickering shadows of its leaves over
the dying pillows alike of father, child, and grandchild? The ring upon the finger is crusted
thick with memories, and, looking at it, far more than in the present do you live in the past.
Perhaps it is for this that we are so jealous of events: we fear to have our memories impinged
upon by pain. The woman whose lover has deserted her mourns not the man she must despise, but
the love that has dropped out of her past, proving hollow and worthless. But she to whom he
remains faithful borrows perpetually store of old love to enrich the daily feast; she gilds
and glorifies the blest to-day with the light of that love transfigured in the past. And so,
in other shapes and experiences, it is with all of us indeed; since into this fairy-land all
can fly for refuge, can pick again their roses and ignore their thorns, can

              "Change
    Torment with ease, and soonest recompense
    Dole with delight,"

Nor is this living in the past entirely the voluntary affair of pleasure and of memory. In
another and more spiritual way it masters us. Never quite losing the vitality that once it
had, with an elastic springiness it constantly rebounds, and the deed of yesterday reacts upon
the deed of to-day. There is something solemn in the thought that thus the blemish or the grace
of a day that long ago disappeared passes on with awfully increasing undulations into the demesne
of the everlasting.

Yesterday, in truth,--looking though it may like a shadow and the phantom of itself,--is the
only substance that we possess, the one immutable fact. To-day is but the asymptote of to-morrow,
that curve perpetually drawing near, but never reaching the straight line flying into infinity.
To-morrow, the great future, belongs to the heaven where it tends. Were it otherwise, seeing
the indestructible elements, and the two great central forces forever at their work, we might
fancy ourselves, in one form or another, continual here on the round world. For when Laplace,
through the acceleration of the moon, dropping her ten seconds a hundred years towards us,
discovered the change in the earth's orbit,--swinging as it does from ellipse to circle and
back again to ellipse, vibrating like a mighty pendulum, the "horologe of eternity" itself,
with tremendous oscillations, through the depths of space,--he taught us that the earth endures;
and so that the clay with which we are clothed still makes a part of the great revolution.
Yet, since the future is no possession of our own, but a dole and pittance, we know that the
earth does not endure for us, but that when we shall have submitted to the conditions of eternal
spirit, yesterday, to-morrow, and to-day must alike have ceased to exist, must have vanished
like illusions; for eternity can be no mere duration of time, but rather some state of being
past all our power of cognition.

And though we are to inherit eternity, yet have authority now only over the period that we
have passed, with what wealth then are the aged furnished! Sweet must it be to sit with folded
hands and dream life over once again. How rich we are, how happy! How dear is the old hand
in ours! Years have added up the sum of all the felicity that we have known together, and carried
it over to to-day. Those that have left our arms and gone out into other homes are still our
own; but little sunny heads besides cluster round the knees as once before they did. Not only
have we age and wisdom, but youth and gayety as well. On what light and jocund scenes we look!
on what deep and dearer bliss! We see the meaning of our sorrows now, and bless them that they
came. With such firm feet we have walked in the lighted way that we gaze back upon, how can
we fear the Valley of the Shadow? Ah! none but they, indeed, who have threescore years and
ten hived away in the past, can see the high design of Heaven in their lives, and from the
wrong side of the pattern picture out the right.

    "So at the last shall come old age,
    Decrepit, as befits that stage.

THE JOHNSON PARTY.

The President of the United States has so singular a combination of defects for the office
of a constitutional magistrate, that he could have obtained the opportunity to misrule the
nation only by a visitation of Providence. Insincere as well as stubborn, cunning as well as
unreasonable, vain as well as ill-tempered, greedy of popularity as well as arbitrary in disposition,
veering in his mind as well as fixed in his will, he unites in his character the seemingly
opposite qualities of demagogue and autocrat, and converts the Presidential chair into a stump
or a throne, according as the impulse seizes him to cajole or to command. Doubtless much of
the evil developed in him is due to his misfortune in having been lifted by events to a position
which he lacked the elevation and breadth of intelligence adequately to fill. He was cursed
with the possession of a power and authority which no man of narrow mind, bitter prejudices,
and inordinate self-estimation can exercise without depraving himself as well as injuring the
nation. Egotistic to the point of mental disease, he resented the direct and manly opposition
of statesmen to his opinions and moods as a personal affront, and descended to the last degree
of littleness in a political leader,--that of betraying his party, in order to gratify his
spite. He of course became the prey of intriguers and sycophants,--of persons who understand
the art of managing minds which are at once arbitrary and weak, by allowing them to retain
unity of will amid the most palpable inconsistencies of opinion, so that inconstancy to principle
shall not weaken force of purpose, nor the emphasis be at all abated with which they may bless
to-day what yesterday they cursed. Thus the abhorrer of traitors has now become their tool.
Thus the denouncer of Copperheads has now sunk into dependence on their support. Thus the imposer
of conditions of reconstruction has now become the foremost friend of the unconditioned return
of the Rebel States. Thus the furious Union Republican, whose harangues against his political
opponents almost scared his political friends by their violence, has now become the shameless
betrayer of the people who trusted him. And in all these changes of base he has appeared supremely
conscious, in his own mind, of playing an independent, a consistent, and especially a conscientious
part.

Indeed, Mr. Johnson's character would be imperfectly described if some attention were not paid
to his conscience, the purity of which is a favorite subject of his own discourse, and the
perversity of which is the wonder of the rest of mankind. As a public man, his real position
is similar to that of a commander of an army, who should pass over to the ranks of the enemy
he was commissioned to fight, and then plead his individual convictions of duty as a justification
of his treachery. In truth, Mr. Johnson's conscience is, like his understanding, a mere form
or expression of his will. The will of ordinary men is addressed through their understanding
and conscience. Mr. Johnson's understanding and conscience can be addressed only through his
will. He puts intellectual principles and the moral law in the possessive case, thinks he pays
them a compliment and adds to their authority when he makes them the adjuncts of his petted
pronoun "my"; and things to him are reasonable and right, not from any quality inherent in
themselves, but because they are made so by his determinations. Indeed, he sees hardly anything
as it is, but almost everything as colored by his own dominant egotism. Thus he is never weary
of asserting that the people are on his side; yet his method of learning the wishes of the
people is to scrutinize his own, and, when acting out his own passionate impulses, he ever
insists that he is obeying public sentiment. Of all the wilful men who, by strange chance,
have found themselves at the head of a constitutional government, he most resembles the last
Stuart king of England, James II.; and the likeness is increased from the circumstance that
the American James has, in his supple and plausible Secretary of State, one fully competent
to play the part of Sunderland.

The party which, under the ironical designation of the National Union Party, now proposes to
take the policy and character of Mr. Johnson under its charge, is composed chiefly of Democrats
defeated at the polls, and Democrats defeated on the field of battle. The few apostate Republicans,
who have joined its ranks while seeming to lead its organization, are of small account. Its
great strength is in its Southern supporters, and, if it comes into power, it must obey a Rebel
direction. By the treachery of the President, it will have the executive patronage on its side,--for
Mr. Johnson's "conscience" is of that peculiar kind which finds satisfaction in arraying the
interest of others against their convictions; and having thus the power to purchase support,
it will not fail of those means of dividing the North which come from corrupting it. The party
under which the war for the Union was conducted is to be denounced and proscribed as the party
of disunion, and we are to be edified by addresses on the indissoluble unity of the nation
by Secessionists, who have hardly yet had time to wash from their hands the stains of Union
blood. The leading proposition on which this conspiracy against the country is to be conducted
is the monstrous absurdity, that the Rebel States have an inherent, "continuous," unconditioned,
constitutional right to form a part of the Federal government, when they have once acknowledged
the fact of the defeat of their inhabitants in an armed attempt to overthrow and subvert it,--a
proposition which implies that victory paralyzes the powers of the victors, that ruin begins
when success is assured, that the only effect of beating a Southern Rebel in the field is to
exalt him into a maker of laws for his antagonist.

In the minority Report of the Congressional Joint Committee on Reconstruction, which is designed
to supply the new party with constitutional law, this theory of State Rights is most elaborately
presented. The ground is taken, that during the Rebellion the States in which it prevailed
were as "completely competent States of the United States as they were before the Rebellion,
and were bound by all the obligations which the Constitution imposed, and entitled to all its
privileges"; and that the Rebellion consisted merely in a series of "illegal acts of the citizens
of such States." On this theory it is difficult to find where the guilt of rebellion lies.
The States are innocent because the Rebellion was a rising of individuals; the individuals
cannot be very criminal, for it is on their votes that the committee chiefly rely to build
up the National Union Party. Again, we are informed that, in respect to the admission of representatives
from "such States," Congress has no right or power to ask more than two questions. These are:
"Have these States organized governments? Are these governments republican in form?" The committee
proceed to say: "How they were formed, under what auspices they were formed, are inquiries
with which Congress has no concern. The right of the people to form a government for themselves
has never been questioned." On this principle, President Johnson's labors in organizing State
governments were works of supererogation. At the close of active hostilities the Rebel States
had organized, though disloyal, governments, as republican in form as they were before the
war broke out. The only thing, therefore, they were required to do was to send their Senators
and Representatives to Washington. Congress could not have rightfully refused to receive them,
because all questions as to their being loyal or disloyal, and as to the changes which the
war had wrought in the relations of the States they represented to the Union, were inquiries
with which Congress had no concern! And here again we have the ever-recurring difficulty respecting
the "individuals" who were alone guilty of the acts of rebellion. "The right of the people,"
we are assured, "to form a government for themselves, has never been questioned." But it happens
that "the people" here indicated are the very individuals who were before pointed out as alone
responsible for the Rebellion. In the exercise of their right "to form a government for themselves,"
they rebelled; and now, it seems, by the exercise of the same right, they can unconditionally
return. There is no wrong anywhere: it is all "right." The people are first made criminals,
in order to exculpate the States, and then the innocence of the States is used to exculpate
the people. When we see such outrages on common sense gravely perpetrated by so eminent a lawyer
as the one who drew up the committee's Report, one is almost inclined to define minds as of
two kinds, the legal mind and the human mind, and to doubt if there is any possible connection
in reason between the two. To the human mind it appears that the Federal government has spent
thirty-five hundred millions of dollars, and sacrificed three hundred thousand lives, in a
contest which the legal mind dissolves into a mere mist of unsubstantial phrases; and by skill
in the trick of substituting words for things, and definitions for events, the legal mind proceeds
to show that these words and definitions, though scrupulously shielded from any contact with
realities, are sufficient to prevent the nation from taking ordinary precautions against the
recurrence of calamities fresh in its bitter experience. The phrase "State Rights," translated
from legal into human language, is found to mean, the power to commit wrongs on individuals
whom States may desire to oppress, or the power to protect the inhabitants of States from the
consequences of their own crimes. The minority of the committee, indeed, seem to have forgotten
that there has been any real war, and bring to mind the converted Australian savage, whom the
missionary could not make penitent for a murder committed the day before, because the trifling
occurrence had altogether passed from his recollection.

In fact, all attempts to discriminate between Rebels and Rebel States, to the advantage of
the latter, are done in defiance of notorious facts. If the Rebellion had been merely a rising
of individual citizens of States, it would have been an insurrection against the States, as
well as against the Federal government, and might have been easily put down. In that case,
there would have been no withdrawal of Southern Senators and Representatives from Congress,
and therefore no question as to their inherent right to return. In Missouri and Kentucky, for
example, there was civil war, waged by inhabitants of those States against their local governments,
as well as against the United States; and nobody contends that the rights and privileges of
those States were forfeited by the criminal acts of their citizens. But the real strength of
the Rebellion consisted in this, that it was not a rebellion against States, but a rebellion
by States. No loose assemblage of individuals, though numbering hundreds of thousands, could
long have resisted the pressure of the Federal power and the power of the State governments.
They would have had no means of subsistence except those derived from plunder and voluntary
contributions, and they would have lacked the military organization by which mobs are transformed
into formidable armies. But the Rebellion being one of States, being virtually decreed by the
people of States assembled in convention, was sustained by the two tremendous governmental
powers of taxation and conscription. The willing and the unwilling were thus equally placed
at the disposition of a strong government. The population and wealth of the whole immense region
of country in which the Rebellion prevailed were at the service of this government. So completely
was it a rebellion of States, that the universal excuse of the minority of original Union men
for entering heartily into the contest after it had once begun was, that they thought it their
duty to abide by the decision, and share the fortunes, of their respective States. Nobody at
the South believed at the time the war commenced, or during its progress, that his State possessed
any "continuous" right to a participation in the privileges of the Federal Constitution, the
obligations of which it had repudiated. When confident of success, the Southerner scornfully
scouted the mere suspicion of entertaining such a degrading notion; when assured of defeat,
his only thought was to "get his State back into the Union on the best terms that could be
made." The idea of "conditions of readmission" was as firmly fixed in the Southern as in the
Northern mind. If the politicians of the South now adopt the principle that the Rebel States
have not, as States, ever altered their relations to the Union, they do it from policy, finding
that its adoption will give them "better terms" than they ever dreamed of getting before the
President of the United States taught them that it would be more politic to bully than to plead.

In the last analysis, indeed, the theory of the minority of the Reconstruction Committee reduces
the Rebel States to mere abstractions. It is plain that a State, in the concrete, is constituted
by that portion of the inhabitants who form its legal people; and that, in passing back of
its government and constitution, we reach a convention of the legal people as its ultimate
expression. By such conventions the acts of secession were passed; and, as far as the people
of the Rebel States could do it, they destroyed their States considered as organized communities
forming a part of the United States. The claim of the United States to authority over the territory
and inhabitants was of course not affected by these acts; but in what condition did they place
the people? Plainly in the condition of rebels, engaged in an attempt to overturn the Constitution
and government of the United States. As the whole force of the people in each of the Rebel
communities was engaged in this work, the whole of the people were rebels and public enemies.
Nothing was left, in each case, but an abstract State, without any external body, and as destitute
of people having a right to enjoy the privileges of the Constitution as if the territory had
been swept clean of population by a pestilence. It is, then, only this abstract State which
has a right to representation in Congress. But how can there be a right to representation when
there is nobody to be represented? All this may appear puerile, but the puerility is in the
premises as well as in the logical deductions; and the premises are laid down as indisputable
constitutional principles by the eminent jurists who supply ideas for the National Union Party.

The doctrine of the unconditional right of the Rebel States to representation being thus a
demonstrated absurdity, the only question relates to the conditions which Congress proposes
to impose. Certainly these conditions, as embodied in the constitutional amendment which has
passed both houses by such overwhelming majorities, are the mildest ever exacted of defeated
enemies by a victorious nation. There is not a distinctly "radical" idea in the whole amendment,--nothing
that President Johnson has not himself, within a comparatively recent period, stamped with
his high approbation. Does it ordain universal suffrage? No. Does it ordain impartial suffrage?
No. Does it proscribe, disfranchise, or expatriate the recent armed enemies of the country,
or confiscate their property? No. It simply ordains that the national debt shall be paid and
the Rebel debt repudiated; that the civil rights of all persons shall be maintained; that Rebels
who have added perjury to treason shall be disqualified for office; and that the Rebel States
shall not have their political power in the Union increased by the presence on their soil of
persons to whom they deny political rights, but that representation shall be based throughout
the Republic on voters, and not on population. The pith of the whole amendment is in the last
clause; and is there anything in that to which reasonable objection can be made? Would it not
be a curious result of the war against Rebellion, that it should end in conferring on a Rebel
voter in South Carolina a power equal, in national affairs, to that of two loyal voters in
New York? Can any Democrat have the face to assert that the South should have, through its
disfranchised negro freemen alone, a power in the Electoral College and in the national House
of Representatives equal to that of the States of Ohio and Indiana combined?

Yet these conditions, so conciliatory, moderate, lenient, almost timid, and which, by the omission
of impartial suffrage, fall very far below the requirements of the average sentiment of the
loyal nation, are still denounced by the new party of "Union" as the work of furious radicals,
bent on destroying the rights of the States. Thus Governor James L. Orr of South Carolina,
a leading Rebel, pardoned into a Johnsonian Union man, implores the people of that region to
send delegates to the Philadelphia Convention, on the ground that its purpose is to organize
"conservative" men of all sections and parties, "to drive from power that radical party who
are daily trampling under foot the Constitution, and fast converting a constitutional Republic
into a consolidated despotism." The terms to which South Carolina is asked to submit, before
she can be made the equal of Ohio or New York in the Union, are stated to be "too degrading
and humiliating to be entertained by a freeman for a single instant." When we consider that
this "radical party" constitutes nearly four fifths of the legal legislature of the nation,
that it was the party which saved the country from dismemberment while Mr. Orr and his friends
were notoriously engaged in "trampling the Constitution under foot," and that the man who denounces
it owes his forfeited life to its clemency, the astounding insolence of the impeachment touches
the sublime. Here is confessed treason inveighing against tried loyalty, in the name of the
Constitution it has violated and the law it has broken! But why does Mr. Orr think the terms
of South Carolina's restored relations to the Union "too degrading and humiliating to be entertained
by a freeman for a single instant"? Is it because he wishes to have the Rebel debt paid? Is
it because he desires to have the Federal debt repudiated? Is it because he thinks it intolerable
that a negro should have civil rights? Is it because he resents the idea that breakers of oaths,
like himself, should be disqualified from having another opportunity of forswearing themselves?
Is it because he considers that a white Rebel freeman of South Carolina has a natural right
to exercise double the political power of a white loyal freeman of Massachusetts? He must return
an affirmative answer to all these questions in order to make it out that his State will be
degraded and humiliated by ratifying the amendment; and the necessity of the measure is therefore
proved by the motives known to prompt the attacks of its vilifiers.

The insolence of Mr. Orr is not merely individual, but representative. It is the result of
Mr. Johnson's attempt "to produce harmony between the two sections," by betraying the section
to which he owed his election. Had it not been for his treachery, there would have been little
difficulty in settling the terms of peace, so as to avoid all causes for future war; but, from
the time he quarrelled with Congress, he has been the great stirrer-up of disaffection at the
South, and the virtual leader of the Southern reactionary party. Every man at the South who
was prominent in the Rebellion, every man at the North who was prominent in aiding the Rebellion,
is now openly or covertly his partisan, and by fawning on him earns the right to defame the
representatives of the people by whom the Rebellion was put down. Among traitors and Copperheads
the fear of punishment has been succeeded by the hope of revenge; elation is on faces which
the downfall of Richmond overcast; and a return to the old times, when a united South ruled
the country by means of a divided North, is confidently expected by the whole crew of political
bullies and political sycophants whose profit is in the abasement of the nation. It is even
said that, if the majority of the "Rump" Congress cannot be overcome by fair means, it will
be by foul; and there are noisy partisans of the President who assert that he has in him a
Cromwellian capacity for dealing with legislative assemblies whose notions of the public good
clash with his own. In short, we are promised, on the assembling of the next Congress, a coup
d'état.

Garret Davis, of Kentucky, was, we believe, the first to announce this executive remedy for
the "radical" disease of the state, and it has since been often prescribed by Democratic politicians
as a sovereign panacea. General McClernand, indeed, proposed a scheme, simpler even than that
of executive recognition, by which the Southern Senators and Representatives might effect a
lodgment in Congress. They should, according to him, have gone to Washington, entered the halls
of legislation, and proceeded to occupy their seats, "peaceably if they could, forcibly if
they must"; but the record of General McClernand, as a military man, was not such as to give
to his advice on a question of carrying positions by assault a high degree of authority, and,
there being some natural hesitation in following his counsel, the golden opportunity was lost.
Mr. Montgomery Blair, who professes his willingness to act with any men, "Rebels or any one
else," to put down the radicals, is never weary of talking to conservative conventions of "two
Presidents and two Congresses." There can be no doubt that the project of a coup d'état has
become dangerously familiar to the "conservative" mind, and that the eminent legal gentlemen
of the North who are publishing opinions affirming the right of the excluded Southern representatives
to their seats are playing into the hands of the desperate gang of unscrupulous politicians
who are determined to have the right established by force. It is computed that the gain, in
the approaching elections, of twenty-five districts now represented by Union Republicans, will
give the Johnson party, in the next Congress, a majority of the House of Representatives, should
the Southern delegations be counted; and it is proposed that the Johnson members legally entitled
to seats should combine with the Southern pretenders to seats, organize as the House of Representatives
of the United States, and apply to the President for recognition. Should the President comply,
he would be impeached by an unrecognized House before an "incomplete" Senate, and, if convicted,
would deny the validity of the proceeding. The result would be civil war, in which the name
of the Federal government would be on the side of the revolutionists. Such is the programme
which is freely discussed by partisans of the President, considered to be high in his favor;
and the scheme, it is contended, is the logical result of the position he has assumed as to
the rights of the excluded States to representation. It is certain that the present Congress
is as much the Congress of the United States as he is the President of the United States; but
it is well known that he considers himself to represent the whole country, while he thinks
that Congress only represents a portion of it; and he has in his character just that combination
of qualities, and is placed in just those anomalous circumstances, which lead men to the commission
of great political crimes. The mere hint of the possibility of his attempting a coup d'état
is received by some Republicans with a look of incredulous surprise; yet what has his administration
been to such persons but a succession of surprises?

But whatever view may be taken of the President's designs, there can be no doubt that the safety,
peace, interest, and honor of the country depend on the success of the Union Republicans in
the approaching elections. The loyal nation must see to it that the Fortieth Congress shall
be as competent to override executive vetoes as the Thirty-Ninth, and be equally removed from
the peril of being expelled for one more in harmony with Executive ideas. The same earnestness,
energy, patriotism, and intelligence which gave success to the war, must now be exerted to
reap its fruits and prevent its recurrence. The only danger is, that, in some representative
districts, the people may be swindled by plausibilities and respectabilities; for when, in
political contests, any great villany is contemplated, there are always found some eminently
respectable men, with a fixed capital of certain eminently conservative phrases, innocently
ready to furnish the wolves of politics with abundant supplies of sheep's clothing. These dignified
dupes are more than usually active at the present time; and the gravity of their speech is
as edifying as its emptiness. Immersed in words, and with no clear perception of things, they
mistake conspiracy for conservatism. Their pet horror is the term "radical"; their ideal of
heroic patriotism, the spectacle of a great nation which allows itself to be ruined with decorum,
and dies rather than commit the slightest breach of constitutional etiquette. This insensibility
to facts and blindness to the tendency of events, they call wisdom and moderation. Behind these
political dummies are the real forces of the Johnson party, men of insolent spirit, resolute
will, embittered temper, and unscrupulous purpose, who clearly know what they are after, and
will hesitate at no "informality" in the attempt to obtain it. To give these persons political
power will be to surrender the results of the war, by placing the government practically in
the hands of those against whom the war was waged. No smooth words about "the equality of the
States," "the necessity of conciliation," "the wickedness of sectional conflicts," will alter
the fact, that, in refusing to support Congress, the people would set a reward on treachery
and place a bounty on treason. "The South," says a Mr. Hill of Georgia, in a letter favoring
the Philadelphia Convention, "sought to save the Constitution out of the Union. She failed.
Let her now bring her diminished and shattered, but united and earnest counsels and energies
to save the Constitution in the Union." The sort of Constitution the South sought to save by
warring against the government is the Constitution which she now proposes to save by administering
it! Is this the tone of pardoned and penitent treason? Is this the spirit to build up a "National
Union Party"? No; but it is the tone and spirit now fashionable in the defeated Rebel States,
and will not be changed until the autumn elections shall have proved that they have as little
to expect from the next Congress as from the present, and that they must give securities for
their future conduct before they can be relieved from the penalties incurred by their past.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Armadale. A Novel. By WILKIE COLLINS. New York: Harper and Brothers.

Except for the fact that there is nothing at all automatic in his inventions, there seems to
be no good reason why Mr. Collins should not make a perpetual motion. He has a surprising mechanical
faculty, and great patience and skill in passing the figures he contrives through the programme
arranged for them. Having read one of his novels, you feel as if you had been amused with a
puppet-show of rare merit, and you would like to have the ingenious mechanician before the
curtain. So much cleverness, however, seems to be thrown away on the entertainment of a single
evening, and you sigh for its application to some work of more lasting usefulness; and the
perpetual motion occurs to you as the thing worthiest such powers. Let it be a perpetual literary
motion, if the public please. Given a remarkable dream and a beautiful bad woman to fulfil
it; you have but to amplify the vision sufficiently, and your beautiful bad woman goes on fulfilling
it forever in tens of thousands of volumes. As the brother of De Quincey said, when proposing
to stand on the ceiling, head downwards, and be spun there like a whip-top, thus overcoming
the attraction of gravitation by the mere rapidity of revolution, "If you can keep it up for
an instant, you can keep it up all day." Alas! it is just at this point that the fatal defect
of Mr. Collins's mechanism appears. But for the artisan's hand, the complicated work would
not start at all, and we perceive that, if he lifted it for a moment from the crank, the painfully
contrived dream would drop to pieces, and the beautiful bad woman would come to a jerky stand-still
in the midst of her most atrocious development. A perpetual literary motion is therefore out
of the question, so far as Mr. Collins is concerned; and we can merely examine his defective
machinery, with many a regret that a plan so ingenious, and devices so labored and costly,
should be of no better effect.

We think, indeed, that all his stories are constructed upon a principle as false to art as
it is false to life. In this world, we have first men and women, with certain well-known good
and evil passions, and these passions are the causes of all the events that happen in the world.
We doubt if it has occurred to any of our readers to see a set of circumstances, even of the
most relentless and malignant description, grouping themselves about any human being without
the agency of his own love or hate. Yet this is what happens very frequently in Mr. Collins's
novels, impoverishing and enfeebling his characters in a surprising degree, and reducing them
to the condition of juiceless puppets without proper will or motion. It is not that they are
all wanting in verisimilitude. Even the entirely wicked Miss Gwilt is a conceivable character;
but, being destined merely to fulfil Armadale's dream, she loses all freedom of action, and,
we must say, takes most clumsy and hopeless and long-roundabout methods of accomplishing crimes,
to which one would have thought a lady of her imputed sagacity would have found much shorter
cuts. It is amazing and inartistic, however, that after all her awkwardness she should fail.
Given a blockhead like Armadale, and a dreamer like Midwinter, there is no reason in nature,
and no reason in art, why a lady of Miss Gwilt's advantages should not marry both of them;
and the author's overruling on this point is more creditable to his heart than to his head.
These three people are the chief persons of the story, and their hands are tied from first
to last They are not to act out their characters: they are to act out the plot; and the author's
designs are accomplished in defiance of their several natures. Some of the minor persons are
not so ruthlessly treated. The Pedgifts, father and son, are free agents, and they are admirably
true to their instincts of upright, astute lawyers, who love best to employ their legal shrewdness
in a good cause. Their joint triumph over Miss Gwilt is probable and natural, and would be
a successful point in the book, if it were conceivable that she should expose herself to such
a defeat by so much needless plotting with Mrs. Oldershaw. But to fill so large a stage, an
immense deal of by-play was necessary, and great numbers of people are visibly dragged upon
the scene. Some of these accomplish nothing in the drama. To what end have we so much of Mr.
Brock? Others elaborately presented only contribute to the result in the most intricate and
tedious way; and in Major Milroy's family there is no means of discovering that Miss Gwilt
is an adventuress, but for Mrs. Milroy to become jealous of her and to open her letters.

It cannot, of course, be denied that Mr. Collins's stories are interesting; for an infinite
number of persons read them through. But it is the bare plot that interests, and the disposition
of mankind to listen to story-telling is such that the idlest conteur can entertain. We must
demand of literary art, however, that it shall interest in people's fortunes by first interesting
in people. Can any one of all Mr. Collins's readers declare that he sympathizes with the loves
of Armadale and Neelie Milroy, or actually cares a straw what becomes of either of those insipid
young persons? Neither is Midwinter one to take hold on like or dislike; and Miss Gwilt is
interesting only as the capable but helpless spider out of which the plot of the story is spun.
Pathos there is not in the book, and the humor is altogether too serious to laugh at.

Four Years in the Saddle. By COLONEL HARRY GILMORE. New York: Harper and Brothers.

It is sometimes difficult to believe, in reading this book, that it is not the production of
Major Gahagan of the Ahmednuggar Irregulars, or Mr. Barry Lyndon of Castle Lyndon. Being merely
a record of personal adventure, it does not suggest itself as part of the history of our late
war, and, but for the recurrence of the familiar names of American persons and places, it might
pass for the narrative of either of the distinguished characters mentioned.

In dealing with events creditable to his own courage and gallantry, Colonel Gilmore has the
unsparing frankness of Major Gahagan, and it must be allowed that there is a remarkable likeness
in all the adventures of these remarkable men. It is true that Colonel Gilmore does not fire
upon a file of twenty elephants so as to cut away all their trunks by a single shot; but he
does kill eleven Yankees by the discharge of a cannon which he touches off with a live coal
held between his thumb and finger. Being made prisoner, he is quite as defiant and outrageous
as the Guj-puti under similar circumstances: at one time he can scarcely restrain himself from
throwing into the sea the insolent captain of a Federal gunboat; at another time, when handcuffed
by order of General Sheridan, he spends an hour in cursing his captors. The red-hair of the
Lord of the White Elephants waved his followers to victory; Colonel Gilmore's "hat, with the
long black plume upon it," is the signal of triumph to his marauders. Both, finally, are loved
by the ladies, and are alike extravagant in their devotion to the sex. Colonel Gilmore, indeed,
withholds no touch that can go to make him the hero of a dime novel; and there is not a more
picturesque and dashing character in literature outside of the adventures of Claude Duval.
Everywhere we behold him waving his steel (as he calls his sword); he wheels before our dazzled
eyes like a meteor; he charges, and the foe fly like sheep before him. And no sooner is he
come into town from killing a score or two of Yankees, than the ladies--who are all good Union
women and have just taken the oath of allegiance--crowd to kiss and caress him; or, as he puts
it in his own vivid language, he receives "a kiss from more than one pair of ruby lips, and
gives many a hearty hug and kiss in return." In his wild way, he takes a pleasure in evoking
the tender solicitude of the ladies for his safety,--eats a dish of strawberries in a house
upon which the Yankees are charging to capture him, and remains for some minutes after the
strawberries are eaten, while the ladies, proffering him his arms, are "dancing about, and
positively screaming with excitement." At another time, when the bullets of the enemy are hissing
about his ears, he puts on a pretty girl's slipper for her. "Such," he remarks, with a pensive
air, "are some of the few happy scenes that brighten a soldier's life."

Colonel Gilmore, who has the diffidence of Major Gahagan, has also the engaging artlessness
which lends so great a charm to the personal narrative of Mr. Barry Lyndon. He does not reserve
from the reader's knowledge such of his exploits as stealing the chaplain's whiskey, and drinking
the peach-brandy of the simple old woman who supposed she was offering it to General Lee. "Place
him where you may," says Colonel Gilmore, "and under no matter what adverse circumstances,
you can always distinguish a gentleman." He has a great deal of fine feeling, and can scarcely
restrain his tears at the burning of Chambersburg, after setting it on fire. Desiring a memento
of a brother officer, he takes a small piece of the dead man's skull. It has been supposed
that civilized soldiers, however brave and resolute, scarcely exulted in the remembrance of
the lives they had taken; and it is thought to be one of the merciful features of modern warfare,
that in the vast majority of cases the slayer and the slain are unknown to each other. Colonel
Gilmore has none of the false tenderness which shrinks from a knowledge of homicide. On the
contrary, he is careful to know when he has killed a man; and he recounts, with an exactness
revolting to feebler nerves, the circumstances and the methods by which he put this or that
enemy to death.

We think we could hardly admire Colonel Gilmore if he had been of our side during the war,
and had done to the Rebels the things he professes to have done to us. As it is, we trust he
will forgive us, if we confess that we have not read his narrative with a tranquil stomach,
and that we think it will impress his Northern readers as the history of a brigand who had
the good luck to be also a traitor.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS.

The Structure of Animal Life. Six Lectures delivered at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, in January
and February, 1862. By Louis Agassiz, Professor of Zoölogy and Geology in the Lawrence Scientific
School. New York. C. Scribner & Co. 8vo. pp. viii., 128. $2.50.

History of the Life and Times of James Madison. By William C. Rives. Vol. II. Boston. Little,
Brown, & Co. 8vo. pp. xxii., 657. $3.50. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 8vo. pp. 502, $4.50.

Poems. By Annie E. Clarke. Philadelphia. J. B. Lippincott & Co. 16mo. pp. 146. $1.00.

The Living Forces of the Universe. The Temple and the Worshippers. By George W. Thompson. Philadelphia.
Howard Challen. 12mo. pp. xxiv., 358. $1.75.

Jealousy. By George Sand, Author of "Consuelo," &c. With a Biographical Sketch of the Author.
Philadelphia. T. B. Peterson & Bro. 12mo. pp. 304. $2.00.

Stories told to a Child. By Jean Ingelow. Boston. Roberts Brothers. 18mo. pp. vi., 424, $1.75.

Canary Birds. A Manual of Useful and Practical Information for Bird-Keepers. New York. William
Wood & Co. 16mo. paper, pp. 110. 50 cents.

The Origin of the Late War, traced from the Beginning of the Constitution to the Revolt of
the Southern States. By George Lunt. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo, pp. xiv., 491. $3.00.

False Pride; or, Two Ways to Matrimony. A Companion to "Family Pride." Philadelphia. T. B.
Peterson & Bro. 12mo. pp. 265. $2.00.

The Genius of Edmund Burke. By J. L. Batchelder. Chicago. J. L. Batchelder. 12mo. pp. 50. $1.00

Letters of Life. By Mrs. L. H. Sigourney. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 414. $2.50.

The Church of England a Portion of Christ's one Holy Catholic Church, and a Means of restoring
Visible Unity. An Eirenicon, in a Letter to the Author of "The Christian Year." By E. B. Pusey,
D. D., Regius Professor of Hebrew, and Canon of Christ Church, Oxford. New York. D. Appleton
& Co. 12mo. pp. 395. $2.00.

The Temporal Mission of the Holy Ghost; or, Reason and Revelation. By Henry Edward, Archbishop
of Westminster. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 274. $1.75.

The Fortune Seeker. By Mrs. Emma D. E. N. Southworth. Philadelphia. T. B. Peterson & Bro. 12mo,
pp. 498. $2.00.

Stonewall Jackson: a Biography. With a Portrait and Map. By John Esten Cooke, formerly of General
Stuart's Staff. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 470. $3.50.

The Phenomena of Plant Life. By Leo H. Grindon, Lecturer on Botany at the Royal School of Medicine,
Manchester, etc. Boston. Nichols & Noyes. 12mo. pp. 93. $1.00

A History of New England, from the Discovery by Europeans to the Revolution of the Seventeenth
Century, being an Abridgment of his "History of New England during the Stuart Dynasty." By
John Gorham Palfrey. In Two Volumes. New York. Hurd & Houghton. 12mo. pp. xx., 408; xii., 426.
$5.00.

The Story of Kennett. By Bayard Taylor. New York. Hurd & Houghton. 12mo. pp. x., 418. $2.25.

A New Translation of the Hebrew Prophets, with an Introduction and Notes. By George R. Noyes,
D. D., Hancock Professor of Hebrew, etc., and Dexter Lecturer in Harvard University. Third
Edition, with a New Introduction and additional Notes. In Two Volumes. Boston. American Unitarian
Association. 12mo. pp. xcii., 271; iv., 413. $4.50.

St. Martin's Eve. By Mrs. Henry Wood. Philadelphia. T. B. Peterson & Brothers. 8vo. pp. 327. $2.00.

The Man of the World. By William North, Author of "The Usurer's Gift," etc. Philadelphia. T.
B. Peterson & Bro. 12mo. pp. 437. $2.00.

Life of Emanuel Swedenborg. Together with a brief Synopsis of his Writings, both Philosophical
and Theological. By William White. With an Introduction by B. F. Barrett. First American Edition.
Philadelphia. J. B. Lippincott & Co. 12mo. pp. 272. $1.50.

The Reunion of Christendom. A Pastoral Letter to the Clergy, etc. By Henry Edward, Archbishop
of Westminster. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 8vo. paper. pp. 66. 50 cts.

The Principles of Biology. By Herbert Spencer. Vol. I. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp.
x., 475. $2.50. D. Appleton & Co. 8vo. pp. iv., 256. $2.50. By Thomas Rivers. First American,
from the Thirteenth English Edition. New York. Orange Judd & Co. 12mo. pp. x., 133. $1.00.

New Book of Flowers. By Joseph Breck. New York. Orange Judd & Co. 12mo. pp. 480. $1.75.

The History of Usury, from the earliest Period to the present Time. Together with a brief Statement
of General Principles concerning the Conflict of the Laws of different States and Countries,
and an Examination into the Policy of Laws on Usury and their Effect upon Commerce. By J. B.
C. Murray. Philadelphia. J. B. Lippincott & Co. 12mo. pp. 158. $1.50.

Hidden Depths. Philadelphia. J. B. Lippincott & Co. 12mo. pp. 351. $2.00.

A Historical Inquiry concerning Henry Hudson; his Friends, Relatives, and Early Life, his Connection
with the Muscovy Company, and Discovery of Delaware Bay. By John Meredith Read, Jr. Albany.
Joel Munsell. 8vo. pp. vi., 209. $5.00.