                              171
Making a Sugar-Bowl.                       171
Rest for flat Dishes.                      173
The Target.                                183
Dolly's Shoes                              186
A Maine Wood-Chopper.                      193
A River-Driver.                            196
"The Liberated Logs came sailing along."   197
Through the Sluice.                        198

ILLUSTRATED SCIENCE FOR BOYS AND GIRLS.

HOW NEWSPAPERS ARE MADE.

We will suppose that it is a great newspaper, in a great city, printing daily 25,000, or more,
copies. Here it is, with wide columns, with small, compact type, with very little space wasted
in head lines, eight large pages of it, something like 100,000 words printed upon it, and sold
for four cents--25,000 words for a cent. It is a great institution--a power greater than a
hundred banking-houses, than a hundred politicians, than a hundred clergymen. It collects and
scatters news; it instructs and entertains with valuable and sprightly articles; it forms and
concentrates public opinion; it in one way or another, brings its influence to bear upon millions
of people, in its own, and other lands. Who would not like to know something about it?

And there is Tom, first of all, who declares that he is going to be a business man, and who
already has a bank-book with a good many dollars entered on its credit side--there is Tom,
I say, asking first of all: "How much does it cost? and where does the money come from? and
is it a paying concern?" Tom shall not have his questions expressly answered; for it isn't
exactly his business; but here are some points from which he may figure:

"How much does it cost?" Well, there is the publishing department, with an eminent business
man at its head, with two or three good business men for his assistants, and with several excellent
clerks and other employès. Then there is the Editor-in-Chief, and the Managing Editor, and
the City Editor, and a corps of editors of different departments, besides reporters--thirty
or forty men in all, each with some special literary gift. Then there are thirty or forty men
setting type; a half-dozen proof-readers; a half-dozen stereotypers; the engineer and foreman
and assistants below stairs, who do the printing; and several men employed in the mailing department.
Then there are tons and tons of paper to be bought each week; ink, new type, heavy bills for
postage; many hundreds of dollars a week for telegraphic dispatches; and the interest on the
money invested in an expensive building; expensive machinery, and an expensive stock of printers'
materials--nothing being said of the pay of correspondents of the paper at the State Capitol,
at Washington, at London, at Paris, etc. Tom is enough of a business man, already, I know,
to figure up the weekly expenses of such an establishment at several thousands of dollars--a
good many hundreds at each issue of the paper.

"And where does the money come from?" Partly from the sale of papers. Only four cents apiece,
and only a part of that goes to the paper; but, then, 25,000 times, say two-and-a-half cents,
is $625, which it must be confessed, is quite a respectable sum for quarter-dimes to pile up
in a single day. But the greater part of the money comes from advertisements. Nearly half of
the paper is taken up with them. If you take a half-dozen lines to the advertising clerk, he
will charge you two or three dollars; and there are several hundred times as much as your small
advertisement in each paper. So you may guess what an income the advertising yields. And the
larger, the more popular, and the more widely read the paper, the better will be the prices
which advertisers will pay, and the more will be the advertisements. And so the publisher tries
to sell as many papers as he can, partly because of the money which he gets for them, but more,
because the more he sells the more advertising will he get, and the better rates will he charge
for it. So, Tom, if you ever become the publisher of a newspaper, you must set your heart on
getting an editor who will make a paper that will sell--whatever else he does or does not do.

"And is it a paying concern?" Well, I don't think the editors think they get very large pay,
nor the correspondents, nor the reporters, nor the printers, nor the pressmen. They work incessantly;
it is an intense sort of work; the hours are long and late; the chances of premature death
are multiplied. I think they will all say: "We aren't in this business for the money that is
in it; we are in it for the influence of it, for the art of it, for the love of it; but then,
we are very glad to get our checks all the same." As to whether the paper pays the men who
own it--which was Tom's question: I think that that "depends" a great deal on the state of
trade, on the state of politics, and on the degree to which the paper will, or will not, scruple
to do mean things. A great many papers would pay better, if they were meaner. It would be a
great deal easier to make a good paper, if you did not have to sell it. When, then, Jonathan
shall have become a minister, he doesn't want to bear down too hard on a "venal press" in his
Fast Day and Thanksgiving sermons. Perhaps, by that time, Tom will be able to explain why.

"How, now, is this paper made?" "But," interrupts Jonathan, "before they make it, I should
like to know where they get the 100,000 words to put into it; I have been cudgeling my brains
for now two weeks to get words enough to fill a four page composition--say 200 words, coarse."

The words which are put into it are, besides the advertisements, chiefly: 1. News; 2. Letters
and articles on various subjects; 3. Editorial articles, reviews, and notes; 4. Odds and ends.

The "letters and articles on various subjects" come from all sorts of people: some from great
writers who get large pay for even a brief communication; some from paid correspondents in
various parts of the world; some from all sorts of people who wish to proclaim to the world
some grievance of theirs, or to enlighten the world with some brilliant idea of theirs--which
generally loses its luster the day the article is printed. A large proportion of letters and
articles from this last class of people get sold for waste-paper before the printer sees them.
This is one considerable source of income to the paper, of which I neglected to tell Tom.

As for the "odds and ends"--extracts from other papers, jokes, and various other scraps tucked
in here and there--a man with shears and paste-pot has a good deal to do with the making of
them. If you should see him at work, you would want to laugh at him--as if he were, for all
the world, only little Nell cutting and pasting from old papers, a "frieze" for her doll's
house. But when his "odds and ends," tastefully scattered here and there through the paper,
come under the reader's eye, they make, I am bound to say, a great deal of very hearty laughter
which is not that laughter of ridicule which the sight of him at his work might excite.

About the "news," I must speak more fully. The "editorial articles, reviews, and notes," we
shall happen upon when we visit the office.

A part of the news comes by telegraph from all parts of the world. Some of it is telegraphed
to the paper by its correspondents, and the editors call it "special," because it is especially
to them. Perhaps there is something in it which none of the other papers have yet heard of.
But the general telegraphic news, from the old-world and the new, is gathered up by the "Associated
Press." That is to say, the leading papers form an Association and appoint men to send them
news from the chief points in America and in Europe. These representatives of the Associated
Press are very enterprising, and they do not allow much news of importance to escape them.
The salaries of these men, and the cost of the telegraphic dispatches, are divided up among
the papers of the Association, so that the expense to each paper is comparatively small. Owing
to this association of papers, hundreds of papers throughout the country publish a great deal
of matter on the same day which is word-for-word alike.

Two devices in this matter of Associated Press dispatches save so much labor, that I think
you will like me to describe them.

One is this: Suppose there are a dozen papers in the same city which are entitled to the Associated
Press dispatches. Instead of making a dozen separate copies, which might vary through mistakes,
one writing answers for all the dozen. First, a sheet of prepared tissue paper is laid down,
then a sheet of a black, smutty sort of paper, then two sheets of tissue paper, then a sheet
of black paper, and so on, until as many sheets of tissue paper have been piled up, as there
are copies wanted. Upon the top sheet of paper, the message is written, not with pen, or pencil,
but with a hard bone point, which presses so hard that the massive layers of tissue paper take
off from the black paper a black line wherever the bone point has pressed. Thus a dozen pages
are written with one writing, and off they go, just alike, to the several newspaper offices.
The printers call this queer, tissue-paper copy--"manifold."

The other device is a telegraphic one. Suppose the Associated Press agent in New York is sending
a dispatch to the Boston papers. There are papers belonging to the Association at, say, New
Haven, Hartford, Springfield and Worcester. Instead of sending a message to each of these points,
also, the message goes to Boston, and operators at New Haven, Hartford, Springfield, and Worcester,
listen to it as it goes through, and copy it off. Thus one operator at New York is able to
talk to perhaps a score of papers, in various parts of New England, or elsewhere, at once.

But in a large city there is a great deal of city and suburban news. Take for example, New
York; and there is that great city, and Brooklyn, and Jersey City, and Hoboken, and Newark,
and Elizabeth, to be looked after, as well as many large villages near at hand. And there is
great competition between the papers, which shall get the most, the exactest, and the freshest,
news. Consequently, each day, a leading New York paper will publish a page or more of local
news. The City Editor has charge of collecting this news. He has, perhaps, twenty or twenty-five
men to help him--some in town, and others in the suburbs.

His plan for news collecting will be something like this: He will have his secretary keep two
great journals, with a page in each devoted to each day. One of these, the "blotter," will
be to write things in which are going to happen. Everything that is going to happen to-morrow,
the next day, the next, and so on, the secretary will make a memorandum of or paste a paragraph
in about upon the page for the day on which the event will happen. Whatever he, or the City
Editor, hears or reads of, that is going to happen, they thus put down in advance, until by
and by, the book gets fairly fat and stout with slips which have been pasted in. But, this
morning, the City Editor wants to lay out to-day's work. So his secretary turns to the "blotter,"
at to-day's page, and copies from it into to-day's page in the second book all the things to
happen to-day--a dozen, or twenty, or thirty--a ship to be launched, a race to come off, a
law-case to be opened, a criminal to be executed, such and such important meetings to be held,
and so on. By this plan, nothing escapes the eye of the City Editor who, at the side of each
thing to happen, writes the name of the reporter whom he wishes to have write the event up.
This second book is called the "assignment book;" and, when it is made out, the reporters come
in, find their orders upon it, and go out for their day's work, returning again at evening
for any new assignments. Besides this, they, and the City Editor, keep sharp ears and eyes
for anything new; and so, amongst them, the city and suburbs are ransacked for every item of
news of any importance. The City Editor is a sort of general. He keeps a close eye on his men.
He finds out what they can best do, and sets them at that. He gives the good workers better
and better work; the poor ones he gradually works out of the office. Those who make bad mistakes,
or fail to get the news, which some other paper gets, are frequently "suspended," or else discharged
out-and-out. Failing to get news which other papers get, is called being "beaten," and no reporter
can expect to get badly "beaten" many times without losing his position.

And now, Tom, and Jonathan, and even little Nell, we'll all be magicians to-night, like the
father of Miranda, in "The Tempest," and transport ourselves in an instant right to one of
those great newspaper offices.

It is six o'clock. The streets are dark. The gaslights are glaring from hundreds of lamp-posts.
Do you see the highest stories of all those buildings brilliant with lights? Those are the
type-setters' rooms of as many great newspapers. In a twinkling we are several stories up toward
the top of one of these buildings. These are the Editorial Rooms. We'll make ourselves invisible,
so that they'll not suspect our presence, and will do to-night just as they always do.

Up over our heads, in the room of the type-setters, are a hundred columns, or more, of articles
already set--enough to make two or three newspapers. The Foreman of the type-setters makes
copies of these on narrow strips of paper with a hand-press, and sends them down to the Editor-in-Chief.
These copies on narrow strips of paper, are called "proofs," because, when they are read over,
the person reading them can see if the type has been set correctly--can prove the correctness
or incorrectness of the type-setting.

The Editor-in-Chief runs rapidly through these proofs, and marks, against here and there one,
"Must," which means that it "must" be published in to-morrow's paper. Against other articles
he marks, "Desirable," which means that the articles are "desirable" to be used, if there is
room for them. Many of the articles he makes no mark against, because they can wait, perhaps
a week, or a month. By having a great many articles in type all the time, they never lack--Jonathan
will be glad to know--for something to put into the paper. Jonathan might well take the hint,
and write his compositions well in advance. Against some of the articles, the word "Reference"
is written, which indicates that when the article is published an editorial article or note
with "reference" to it must also be published. Before the Editor-in-Chief is through, perhaps
he marks against one or two articles the word "Kill," which means that the article is, after
all, not wanted in the paper, and that the type of it may be taken apart--the type-setters
say "distributed"--without being printed.

When the Editor-in-Chief is through with the proofs, perhaps he has a consultation with the
Managing Editor--the first editor in authority after him--about some plans for to-night's paper,
or for to-morrow, or for next week. Perhaps, then, he summons in the Night Editor. The Night
Editor is the man who stays until almost morning, who overlooks everything that goes into the
paper, and who puts everything in according to the orders of the Editor-in-Chief, or of the
Managing Editor. Well, he tells the Night Editor how he wants to-morrow's paper made, what
articles to make the longest, and what ones to put in the most important places in the paper.
Then, perhaps, the City Editor comes knocking at the door, and enters, and he and the Editor-in-Chief
talk over some stirring piece of city news, and decide what to say in the editorial columns
about it.

After the Editor-in-Chief has had these consultations, perhaps he begins to dictate to his
secretary letters to various persons, the secretary taking them down in short-hand, as fast
as he can talk, and afterwards copying them out and sending them off. That is the sort of letter-writing
which would suit little Nell--just to say off the letter, and not to have to write it--which,
in her case, means "printing" it in great, toilsome capitals. After dictating perhaps a dozen
letters, it may be that the Editor-in-Chief dictates in the same manner, an editorial article,
or some other matter which he wishes to have appear in the paper. Thus he spends several hours--perhaps
the whole night--in seeing people, giving directions, dictating letters and articles, laying
out new plans, and exercising a general headship over all things.

Turning, now, from his room, we observe in the great room of the editors, a half dozen men
or more seated at their several desks--the Managing Editor and the Night Editor about their
duties; two or three men looking over telegraph messages and getting them ready for the type-setters;
two or three men writing editorial, and other articles.

From this room we turn to the great room of the City Department. There is the City Editor,
in his little, partitioned-off room, writing an editorial, we will suppose, on the annual report
of the City Treasurer, which has to-day been given to the public. At desks, about the great
room, a half-dozen reporters are writing up the news which they have been appointed to collect;
and another, and another, comes in every little while.

Over there, is the little, partitioned-off room for the Assistant City Editor. It is this man's
duty, with his assistant, to prepare for the type-setters all the articles which come from
the City Department. There are stacks and stacks of them. Each reporter thinks his subject
is the most important, and writes it up fully; and, when it is all together, perhaps there
is a third or a half more than there is room in the paper to print. So the Assistant City Editor,
and his Assistant, who come to the office at about five o'clock in the afternoon, read it all
over carefully, correct it, cut out that which it is not best to use, group all the news of
the same sort so that it may come under one general head, put on suitable titles, decide what
sort of type to put it in, etc.,--a good night's work for both of them. They also write little
introductions to the general subjects, and so harmonize and modify the work of twenty or twenty-five
reporters, as to make it read almost as if it were written by one man, with one end in view.

The editors of the general news have to do much the same thing by the letters of correspondents,
and by the telegraphic dispatches.

While this sort of work goes on, hour after hour, with many merry laughs and many good jokes
interspersed to make the time fly the swifter, we will wander about the establishment. Here,
in the top story of the building, is the room of the type-setters. Every few minutes, from
down-stairs in the Counting Room, comes a package of advertisements to be put into type; and
from the Editorial Rooms a package of news and general articles for the same purpose. They
do not trouble to send them up by a messenger. A tube, with wind blown through it very fast,
brings up every little while a little leathern bag, in which are the advertisements or the
articles--the "copy" as the type-setters call it.

In this room are thirty or forty type-setters. Each one of them has his number. When the copy
comes up, a man takes it and cuts it up into little bits, as much as will make, say, a dozen
lines in the paper, and numbers the bits--"one," "two," etc., to the end of the article. Type-setter
after type-setter comes and takes one of these little bits, and in a few moments sets the type
for it, and lays it down in a long trough, with the number of the bit of copy laid by the side
of it. We will suppose that an article has been cut up into twenty bits. Twenty men will each
in a few moments be setting one of these bits, and, in a few minutes more they will come and
lay down the type and the number of the bit in the long trough, in just the right order of
the number of the bits--"one," "two," etc. Then all the type will be slid together, and a long
article will thus be set in a few minutes, which it would take one or two men several hours
to set. It is by this means that long articles can in so short a time be put into type. Each
man who takes a bit, has to make his last line fill out to the end of the line; and, because
there are sometimes not words enough, so that he has to fill out with some extra spaces between
the words, you may often see in any large daily paper every two inches, or so, a widely spaced
line or two showing how the type-setter had to fill out his bit with spaces--only he would
call the bit, a "take."

I said that each type-setter has his number. We will suppose that this man, next to us, is
number "twenty-five." Then he is provided with a great many pieces of metal, just the width
of a column, with his number made on them--thus: "TWENTY-FIVE." Every time he sets a new bit
of copy, he puts one of these "twenty-fives" at the top; and when all the bits of type in the
long trough are slid together the type is broken up every two inches or so, with "twenty-five,"
"thirty-seven," "two," "eleven," and so on, at the top of the bits which the men, whose numbers
these are, have set. When a proof of the article is taken, these several numbers appear; and,
if there are mistakes, it appears from these numbers, what type-setters made them, and they
have to correct them. Also, of each article, a single "proof" is taken on colored paper. These
colored paper "proofs" are cut up the next day, and all the pieces marked "twenty-five," "thirty-seven,"
and so on, go to the men who have these numbers, and when pasted together show how much type,
number "twenty-five," "thirty-seven," and so on, are to be paid for setting--for the type-setters
are paid according to the amount of type which they set.

As fast as the proofs are taken they go into the room of the proof-readers to be corrected.
The bits of copy are pasted together again, and one man holds the copy while another reads
the proof aloud. The man holding the copy notices any points in which the proof does not read
like the copy, and tells the man who is reading it. The man reading it corrects the variations
from copy, and corrects all the other mistakes which he can discover, and then the type-setters
have to change the type so as to make it right. There the proof readers sit hard at work, reading
incredibly fast, and making rapid and accurate corrections; then the "copy" is locked up, and
no one can get at it, except the Managing Editor or Editor-in-Chief gives an order to see it.
This precaution is taken, in order to make certain who is responsible for any mistakes which
appear in the paper--the editors, or the type-setters.

By this time it is nearly midnight, and the editors, type-setters, etc., take their lunches.
They either go out to restaurants for them, or have them sent in--hot coffee, sandwiches, fruit,
etc.--a good meal for which they are all glad to stop.

And now the Foreman of the type-setters sends to the Night Editor that matter enough is in
type to begin the "make-up"--that is, to put together the first pages of the paper. There the
beautiful type stands, in long troughs, all corrected now, the great numbers of the type-setters
removed from between the bits of type--the whole ready to be arranged into page after page
of the paper. So the Night Editor makes a list of the articles which he wants on the page which
is to be made up; the Foreman puts them in in the order which the Night Editor indicates; the
completed page is wedged securely into an iron frame, and then is ready to be stereotyped.

The room of the stereotypers is off by itself. There is a furnace in it, and a great caldron
of melted type metal. They take the page of the paper which has just been made up; put it on
a hot steam chest; spat down upon the type some thick pulpy paper soaked so as to make it fit
around the type; spread plaster of Paris on the back, so as to keep the pulpy paper in shape;
and put the whole under the press which more perfectly squeezes the pulpy paper down upon the
type, and causes it to take a more perfect impression of the type. The heat of the steam chest
warms the type, and quickly dries the pulpy paper and the plaster of Paris. Then the pulpy
paper is taken off, and curved with just such a curve as the cylinders of the printing-press
have, and melted type metal is poured over it, which cools in a moment; when, lo, there is
a curving plate of type-metal just like the type! The whole process of making this plate takes
only a few minutes. They use such plates as these, rather than type, in printing the great
papers chiefly for reasons like these: 1. Because plates save the wear of type; 2. Because
they are easier handled; 3. Because they can be made curving, to fit the cylinders of the printing
presses as it would be difficult to arrange the type; 4. Because several plates can be made
from the same type, and hence several presses can be put at work at the same time printing
the same paper; 5. Because, if anything needs to be added to the paper, after the presses have
begun running, the type being left up-stairs can be changed and new plates made, so that the
presses need stop only a minute for the new plates to be put in--which is a great saving of time.

But, coming down into the Editorial Rooms again--business Tom, and thoughtful Jonathan, and
sleepy little Nell--all is excitement. Telegrams have just come in telling of the wreck of
an ocean steamer, and men are just being dispatched to the steamer's office to learn all the
particulars possible, and to get, if it may be, a list of the passengers and crew. And now,
just in the midst of this, a fire-alarm strikes, and in a few moments the streets are as light
as day with the flames of a burning warehouse in the heart of the business part of the city.
More men are sent off to that; and, what with the fire and the wreck, every reporter, every
copy-editor, every type-setter and proof-reader are put to their hardest work until the last
minute before the last page of the paper must be sent down to the press-rooms. Then, just at
the last, perhaps the best writer in the office dashes off a "leader" on the wreck sending
a few lines at a time to the type-setters--a leader which, though thought out, written, set,
corrected, and stereotyped in forty minutes, by reason of its clearness, its wisdom, and its
brilliancy, is copied far and wide, and leads the public generally to decide where to fix the
blame, and how to avoid a like accident again. There is the work of the "editorial articles,
reviews, and notes"--to comment on events which happen, and to influence the minds of the public
as the editorial management of the paper regards to be wise. There is all sorts of this editorial
writing--fun, politics, science, literature, religion--and he who says, with his pen, the say
of such a newspaper, wields an influence which no mind can measure.

Well, the fire, and the wreck, have thoroughly awakened even little Nell. And so down, down
we go, far under ground, to the Press-rooms. There the noise is deafening. Two or three presses
are at work. At one end of the press is a great roll of paper as big as a hogshead and a mile
or more long. This immense roll of paper is unwinding very fast, and going in at one end of
the machine; while at the other end, faster than you can count, are coming out finished papers--the
papers printed on both sides, cut up, folded, and counted, without the touch of a hand--a perfect
marvel and miracle of human ingenuity. The sight is a sight to remember for a lifetime. Upon
what one here sees, hinges very much of the thinking of a metropolis and of a land.

And now, here come the mailing clerks, to get their papers to send off--with great accuracy
and speed of directing and packing--by the first mails which leave the city within an hour
and a half, at five and six o'clock in the morning. And after them come the newsboys, each
for his bundle; and soon the frosty morning air in the gray dawn is alive with the shouting
of the latest news in this and a dozen other papers.

This, I am sure, is too fast a world even for business Tom: so let us "spirit" ourselves back
to our beds in the quiet, slow-moving, earnest country--Tom and Jonathan and little Nell and
I--home, and to sleep--and don't wake us till dinner-time!

UMBRELLAS.

About one hundred and thirty years ago, an Englishman named Jonas Hanway, who had been a great
traveller, went out for a walk in the city of London, carrying an umbrella over his head.

Every time he went out for a walk, if it rained or if the sun shone hotly, he carried this
umbrella, and all along the streets, wherever he appeared, men and boys hooted and laughed;
while women and girls, in doorways and windows, giggled and stared at the strange sight, for
this Jonas Hanway was the first man to commonly carry an umbrella in the city of London, and
everybody, but himself, thought it was a most ridiculous thing to do.

But he seems to have been a man of strength and courage, and determined not to give up his
umbrella even if all London made fun of him. Perhaps, in imagination, he saw adown the future,
millions of umbrellas--umbrellas enough to shelter the whole island of England from rain.

Whether he did foresee the innumerable posterity of his umbrella or not, the "millions" of
umbrellas have actually come to pass.

But Jonas Hanway was by no means the first man in the world to carry an umbrella. As I have
already mentioned, he had travelled a great deal, and had seen umbrellas in China, Japan, in
India and Africa, where they had been in use for so many hundreds of years that nobody knows
when the first one was made. So long ago as Nineveh existed in its splendor, umbrellas were
used, as they are yet to be found sculptured on the ruins of that magnificent capital of Assyria,
as well as on the monuments of Egypt which are very, very old; and your ancient history will
tell you that the city of Nineveh was founded not long after the flood. Perhaps it was that
great rain, of forty days and forty nights, that put in the minds of Noah, or some of his sons,
the idea to build an umbrella!

Although here in America the umbrella means nothing but an umbrella, it is quite different
in some of the far Eastern countries. In some parts of Asia and Africa no one but a royal personage
is allowed to carry an umbrella. In Siam it is a mark of rank. The King's umbrella is composed
of one umbrella above another, a series of circles, while that of a nobleman consists of but
one circle. In Burmah it is much the same as in Siam while the Burmese King has an umbrella-title
that is very comical: "Lord of the twenty-four umbrellas."

The reason why the people of London ridiculed Jonas Hanway was because at that time it was
considered only proper that an umbrella should be carried by a woman, and for a man to make
use of one was very much as if he had worn a petticoat.

There is in one of the Harleian MSS. a curious picture showing an Anglo-Saxon gentleman walking
out, with his servant behind him carrying an umbrella; the drawing was probably made not far
from five hundred years ago, when the umbrella was first introduced into England. Whether this
gentleman and his servant created as much merriment as Mr. Hanway did, I do not know; neither
can I tell you why men from that time on did not continue to use the umbrella. If I were to
make a "guess" about it, I should say that they thought it would not be "proper," for it was
considered an unmanly thing to carry one until a hundred years ago when the people of this
country first began to use them. And it was not until twenty years later, say in the year 1800,
that the "Yankees" began to make their own umbrellas. But since that time there have been umbrellas
and umbrellas!

The word umbrella comes from the Latin word umbra, which means a "little shade;" but the name,
most probably, was introduced into the English language from the Italian word ombrella. Parasol
means "to ward off the sun," and another very pretty name, not much used by Americans, for
a small parasol, is "parasolette."

It would be impossible for me to tell you how many umbrellas are made every year in this country.
A gentleman connected with a large umbrella manufactory in the city of Philadelphia gave me,
as his estimate, 7,000,000.

This would allow an umbrella to about one person in six, according to the census computation
which places the population of the United States at 40,000,000 of people. And one umbrella
for every six persons is certainly not a very generous distribution. Added to the number made
in this country, are about one-half million which are imported, chiefly from France and England.
You who have read "Robinson Crusoe," remember how he made his umbrella and covered it with
skins, and that is probably the most curious umbrella you can anywhere read about. Then there
have been umbrellas covered with large feathers that would shed rain like a "duck's back,"
and umbrellas with coverings of oil-cloth, of straw, of paper, of woollen stuffs, until now,
nearly all umbrellas are covered either with silk, gingham, or alpaca. And this brings us to
the manufacture of umbrellas in Philadelphia, where there are more made than in any other city
in America.

If you will take an umbrella in your hand and examine it, you will see that there are many
more different things used in making it than you at first supposed.

First, there are the "stick," made of wood, "ribs," "stretchers" and "springs" of steel; the
"runner," "runner notch," the "ferule," "cap," "bands" and "tips" of brass or nickel; then
there are the covering, the runner "guard" which is of silk or leather, the "inside cap," the
oftentimes fancy handle, which may be of ivory, bone, horn, walrus tusk, or even mother-of-pearl,
or some kind of metal, and, if you will look sharply, you will find a rivet put in deftly here
and there.

For the "sticks" a great variety of wood is used; although all the wood must be hard, firm,
tough, and capable of receiving both polish and staining. The cheaper sticks are sawed out
of plank, chiefly, of maple and iron wood. They are then "turned" (that is made round), polished
and stained. The "natural sticks," not very long ago, were all imported from England. But that
has been changed, and we now send England a part of our own supply, which consists principally
of hawthorne and huckleberry, which come from New York and New Jersey, and of oak, ash, hickory,
and wild cherry.

If you were to see these sticks, often crooked and gnarled, with a piece of the root left on,
you would think they would make very shabby sticks for umbrellas. But they are sent to a factory
where they are steamed and straitened, and then to a carver, who cuts the gnarled root-end
into the image of a dog or horse's head, or any one of the thousand and one designs that you
may see, many of which are exceedingly ugly. The artist has kindly made a picture for you of
a "natural" stick just as it is brought from the ground where it grows, and, then again, the
same stick after it has been prepared for the umbrella.

Of the imported "natural" sticks, the principal are olive, ebony, furze, snakewood, pimento,
cinnamon, partridge, and bamboo. Perhaps you do not understand that a "natural" stick is one
that has been a young tree, having grown to be just large enough for an umbrella stick, when
it was pulled up, root and all, or with at least a part of the root. If, when you buy an umbrella
that has the stick bent into a deep curve at the bottom for the handle, you may feel quite
sure that it is of partridge wood, which does not grow large enough to furnish a knob for a
handle, but, when steamed, admits of being bent.

The "runner," "ferule," "cap," "band," etc., form what is called umbrella furniture and for
these articles there is a special manufactory. Another manufactory cuts and grooves wire of
steel into the "ribs" and "stretchers." Formerly ribs were made out of cane or whalebone; but
these materials are now seldom used. When the steel is grooved, it is called a "paragon" frame,
which is the lightest and best made. It was invented by an Englishman named Fox, seventeen
or eighteen years ago. The latest improvement in the manufacture of "ribs" is to give them
an inward curve at the bottom, so that they will fit snugly around the stick, and which dispenses
with the "tip cup,"--a cup-shaped piece of metal that closed over the tips.

Of course we should all like to feel that we Americans have wit enough to make everything used
in making an umbrella. And so we have in a way; but it must be confessed that most of the silk
used for umbrella covers, is brought from France. Perhaps if the Cheney Brothers who live at
South Manchester in Connecticut, and manufacture such elegant silk for ladies' dresses, and
such lovely scarfs and cravats for children, were to try and make umbrella silk, we would soon
be able to say to the looms of France, "No more umbrella silk for America, thank you; we are
able to supply our own!"

But the "Yankees" do make all their umbrella gingham, which is very nice. And one gingham factory
that I have heard about has learned how to dye gingham such a fast black, that no amount of
rain or sun changes the color. The gingham is woven into various widths to suit umbrella frames
of different size, and along each edge of the fabric a border is formed of large cords. As
to alpaca, a dye-house is being built, not more than a "thousand miles" from Philadelphia on
the plan of English dye-houses, so that our home-made alpacas may be dyed as good and durable
a black as the gingham receives; for although nobody minds carrying an old umbrella, nobody
likes to carry a faded one. Although there are umbrellas of blue, green and buff, the favorite
hue seems to be black.

And now that we have all the materials together to make an umbrella, let us go into a manufactory
and see exactly how all the pieces are put together.

First, here is the stick, which must be "mounted." By that you must understand that there are
two springs to be put in, the ferule put on the top end, and if the handle is of other material
than the stick, that must be put on.

