    But ere the library was half supplied
      With all its pomps of cabinet and shelf,
    The booby squire repented him, and cried
                  Unto himself:

    "This room is much more roomy than I thought;
      Ten thousand volumes hardly would suffice
    To fill it, and would cost, however bought,
                  A plaguey price.

    "Now, as I only want them for their looks,
      It might, on second thoughts, be just as good,
    And cost me next to nothing, if the books
                  Were made of wood.

    "It shall be so, I'll give the shaven deal
      A coat of paint--a colorable dress,
    To look like calf or vellum and conceal
                  Its nakedness.

    "And, gilt and lettered with the author's name,
      Whatever is most excellent and rare
    Shall be, or seem to be ('tis all the same),
                  Assembled there."

    The work was done, the simulated hoards
      Of wit and wisdom round the chamber stood,
    In binding some; and some, of course, in boards
                  Where all were wood.

    From bulky folios down to slender twelves
      The choicest tomes, in many an even row
    Displayed their lettered backs upon the shelves,
                  A goodly show.

    With such a stock as seemingly surpassed
      The best collections ever formed in Spain,
    What wonder if the owner grew at last
                  Supremely vain?

    What wonder, as he paced from shelf to shelf
      And conned their titles, that the squire began,
    Despite his ignorance, to think himself
                  A learned man?

    Let every amateur, who merely looks
      To backs and binding, take the hint, and sell
    His costly library--for painted books
                  Would serve as well.

     Poetry means more to us and we get more enjoyment from reading it
     when we understand some of the difficulties that the poet has in
     writing it and can recognize those things which make it poetry in
     form.

     For instance, you will notice in the poem which we have just read
     that every stanza has four lines; that, in printing, the first and
     third lines begin close to the margin, while the second and fourth
     lines begin a little farther in on the page--that is, they are
     indented. Now if you will look at the ends of the lines you will
     see that the words with which the first and third lines terminate
     are in rhyme, and that the words with which the second and fourth
     lines terminate are in rhyme. In other words, the indentation at
     beginning of lines in poetry calls attention to the rhymes.

     It is true throughout The Country Squire that every pair of lines
     taken alternately ends in rhymes which are perfect or nearly so.
     Now a perfect rhyme is one in which the two rhyming syllables are
     both accented, the vowel sound and the consonants which follow the
     vowels are identical, and the sounds preceding the vowel are
     different. For instance, the words smile and style rhyme. Both
     of these are monosyllables and hence accented. The vowel sound is
     the long sound of i; the consonant sound of l follows. The
     sounds preceding the i are similar but not identical, represented
     by sm in the first case and st in the second. In the fifth
     stanza the first line ends with the word dispatch, the third with
     the word batch. This rhyme is perfect, because the accent on the
     word dispatch is naturally on the second syllable. In the ninth
     stanza the word dress is made to rhyme with nakedness. This is
     not strictly perfect, for the natural accent of nakedness is on
     the first syllable.

     It may be interesting for beginners to work out the rhyme scheme of
     a poem and write it down. This is very easily done. Take the first
     stanza in The Country Squire. Represent the rhyming syllable of
     the first line by a, the rhyming syllable of the second line by
     b. It follows then that the rhyming syllable of the third line
     must be represented by a, and the rhyming syllable of the fourth
     line by b. Writing these letters in succession we have the
     nonsense word abab, which will always stand for stanzas of this
     kind. If you are interested in this turn to the studies at the end
     of the next poem, To My Infant Son. The first
     stanza here has eight lines, the first four of them rhyming
     alternately in pairs, the next four in couplets. If now we apply
     the plan that is suggested for writing out the rhyme scheme, the
     word for the first stanza is ababccdd.

     The second stanza has ten lines. Its rhyme scheme is evidently
     quite different, for here the first six lines rhyme in couplets and
     the last four alternately in pairs. The word to represent such a
     scheme is aabbccdede.

     Can you write out the words which will represent the rhyme scheme
     in the other stanzas in this poem?

     Find the other poems in this book and write out the rhyme scheme
     for them. Notice that in most poems the stanzas have the same
     number of lines, and that the rhyme scheme of one stanza is just
     like that of another. Take the other books in this series and turn
     to the poems, find what an endless variety of rhymes there is and
     how the scheme differs in different poems.

  ALGIDUS, al´ ji dus

  ANJOU, oN´´ zhoo´

  ATHELSTANE, ath´ el stane

  BANGWEOLO, bang´´ we o´ lo

  BECHUANALAND, beck´´ oo ah´ na land

  BOIS-GUILBERT, BRIAN DE, bwah geel bayr´, bre oN´ deh

  CEDRIC, ked´ rick, or sed´ rick

  CHALDEA, kal de´ ah

  CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES, shahr´´ zhay´ daf fayr´

  CHIAJA, kyah´ ya

  FALERII, fah le´ ry i

  FRONT-DE-BOEUF, froN deh beuf´

  GIBAULT, zhee bo´

  KHIVA, ke´ vah

  LIGEIA, li je´ yah

  MAISONVILLE, may´´ zoN veel´

  MALVOISIN, mal vwah saN´

  MARESCHAL, mahr´ shal

  MASSOUEY, mas su´ y

  NAOMI, nay o´ mi

  NGAMI, ngah´ me

  NICARAGUA, nee´´ kar ah´ gwah

  ONEIDA, o ni´ dah

  PSALMS, sahms

  RAKSH, rahksh

  ROWENA, ro e´ na

  RUSTUM, roos´ tum

  SAGA, say´ gah

  SEIUS, se´ yus

  SEISTAN, says´ tahn

  SENNACHERIB, sen nak´ e rib

  SOHRAB, so´ rahb

  TARPEIAN, tahr pe´ yan

  TONGRES, toN´ gr´

  VELASQUEZ, vay lahs´ kayth

  VENEZUELA, ven e zwe´ lah

  VINCENNES, vin senz´

  YRIARTE, e re ahr´ tay

  ZOUCHE, zooch

   ix  Babocck changed to Babcock
  Plate facing p. 30  Abbottsford changed to Abbotsford
   37  glady changed to gladly
   45  Saxon, Rowena. changed to Saxon, Rowena."
   60  avow-himself changed to avow himself
   76  occupy. "Ladies," changed to occupy. Ladies,"
   86  puting changed to putting
  106  burden?" changed to burden?
  108  landingplace changed to landing-place
  161  carelessnesss changed to carelessness
  172  "It is yours changed to 'It is yours
  174  Aber-baijan changed to Ader-baijan
  182  Gudruz changed to Gudurz
  196, fn. 23  indentification changed to identification
  221  Engand changed to England
  264  its breast!" changed to its breast!
  308  with Chrismas holly changed to with Christmas holly
  345  hear me! changed to "hear me!
  352  footsool changed to footstool
  356  Chrismas Eve the mass changed to Christmas Eve the mass
  363, fn. 13  line means. changed to line means,
  363, fn. 15  ascent to to changed to ascent to
  363, fn. 15  Now. gentlemen changed to Now, gentlemen
  368  woful-wan changed to woeful-wan
  432  well acount for changed to well account for
  451  and patroled during changed to and patrolled during
  452  bady changed to badly
  460  Why, papa changed to "Why, papa

  Inconsistent hyphenation and spelling

