A Supplement to

A COMPILATION OF THE MESSAGES AND PAPERS OF THE PRESIDENTS

1789-1902

BY JAMES D. RICHARDSON

A REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE STATE OF TENNESSEE

COMPILED AND ARRANGED BY

GEORGE RAYWOOD DEVITT, M.A.

MEMBER NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY, ETC., ETC.

THIS VOLUME PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF BUREAU OF NATIONAL LITERATURE AND ART

1904

Prefatory Note

As the exigencies which prompted, at a late date, the change of plans in the compilation of
this work, left the messages and papers of the McKinley administration incomplete and defective,
it has been felt that the time has now arrived for their collection. In this supplement are
included the messages, proclamations and executive orders of President McKinley which do not
appear in Volume X, and those of his successor, President Roosevelt, to date. They set forth
the home affairs of the nation, and illustrate the stability of the government and institutions
of the United States. They demonstrate that affairs were conducted with attention and directness
unaffected by the apparently distracting, but glorious, incidents, which marked her interposition
by arms and the extension of her sheltering aegis to Cuba. They teach us that the foundations
of this country are deep-rooted and that the process of nation-building, as recounted in these
volumes, has proceeded upon right lines and with an unbounded fidelity to principle and purpose.

GEORGE RAYWOOD DEVITT.

WASHINGTON, D.C., October 1, 1902.

SUPPLEMENT

       *       *       *       *       *

William McKinley

March 4, 1897, to September 14, 1901

       *       *       *       *       *

Additional Messages, Proclamations, Executive Orders and Last Public Utterance to the People
at Buffalo

William McKinley

(For portrait and early biographical sketch see Vol. X, pp. 125, 126, 127)

At the National Republican Convention which met at Philadelphia in June, 1901, William McKinley
was again nominated the Republican candidate for the Presidency of the United States. At the
November election he was re-elected, receiving 292 electoral votes, against 155 votes for William
J. Bryan.

In September, 1901, he accepted an invitation to be present at the Pan-American Exposition
at Buffalo. On September 5 he delivered his last public utterance to the people, in the Temple
of Music, to a vast audience. The next day, returning from a short trip to Niagara Falls, he
yielded to the wishes of the people and held a reception in the Temple. Among those who, passing
in single file, took him by the hand, was one who approached with his hand wrapped and held
to his breast as though injured. Concealed within the covering was a loaded revolver; and as
he gave his other hand to the President, a token of friendship, he quickly fired two shots,
from the effects of which the President sank into the arms of those near him. He was taken
to the residence of Mr. John G. Milburn, President of the Exposition Company, where on September
14, 1901, after an unexpected relapse, he died. The body was taken to Washington, D.C., and
the state funeral was held in the rotunda of the Capitol. Thence the body was taken to his
home in Canton, Ohio, for interment.

The period covered by the administration of William McKinley was, undoubtedly, more crowded
with events calculated to try and to touch the very heart of the nation than was any period
since the Civil War. The United States has passed through crisis after crisis in quick succession
and has emerged not only in safety but with untarnished honor, increased glory, and the great
consciousness of solidarity and unification. This is attested by the wise management of affairs
in connection with the Nicaragua Canal; the increase of the navy, the formation of an army
and the imposition of taxes which in no way impeded the march of industry; the settlement of
railway claims; and the successful starting in life of Cuba and the administration of far colonial
affairs. Aside from the wise counsels of the Executive of the nation, the calmness and cool
action of the people, amid distracting and perplexing events, have contributed to the honor
of the nation in no slight degree. All of this, and more, was abundantly testified to, at the
time of the deplorable circumstances attending William McKinley's death by the unexampled outburst
throughout the world of sympathy with the bereaved nation and of admiration for the man.

INAUGURAL ADDRESS

Fellow-Citizens:

In obedience to the will of the people, and in their presence, by the authority vested in me
by this oath, I assume the arduous and responsible duties of President of the United States,
relying upon the support of my countrymen and invoking the guidance of Almighty God. Our faith
teaches that there is no safer reliance than upon the God of our fathers, who has so singularly
favored the American people in every national trial, and who will not forsake us so long as
we obey His commandments and walk humbly in His footsteps.

The responsibilities of the high trust to which I have been called--always of grave importance--are
augmented by the prevailing business conditions, entailing idleness upon willing labor and
loss to useful enterprises. The country is suffering from industrial disturbances from which
speedy relief must be had. Our financial system needs some revision; our money is all good
now, but its value must not further be threatened. It should all be put on an enduring basis,
not subject to easy attack, nor its stability to doubt or dispute. Our currency should continue
under the supervision of the Government. The several forms of our paper money offer, in my
judgment, a constant embarrassment to the Government and a safe balance in the Treasury. Therefore
I believe it necessary to devise a system which, without diminishing the circulating medium
or offering a premium for its contraction, will present a remedy for those arrangements which,
temporary in their nature, might well in the years of our prosperity have been displaced by
wiser provisions. With adequate revenue secured, but not until then, we can enter upon such
changes in our fiscal laws as will, while insuring safety and volume to our money, no longer
impose upon the Government the necessity of maintaining so large a gold reserve, with its attendant
and inevitable temptations to speculation. Most of our financial laws are the outgrowth of
experience and trial, and should not be amended without investigation and demonstration of
the wisdom of the proposed changes. We must be both "sure we are right," and "make haste slowly."
If, therefore, Congress, in its wisdom, shall deem it expedient to create a commission to take
under early consideration the revision of our coinage, banking and currency laws, and give
them that exhaustive, careful and dispassionate examination that their importance demands,
I shall cordially concur in such action. If such power is vested in the President, it is my
purpose to appoint a commission of prominent, well-informed citizens of different parties,
who will command public confidence, both on account of their ability and special fitness for
the work. Business experience and public training may thus be combined, and the patriotic zeal
of the friends of the country be so directed that such a report will be made as to receive
the support of all parties, and our finances cease to be the subject of mere partisan contention.
The experiment is, at all events, worth a trial, and, in my opinion, it can but prove beneficial
to the entire country.

The question of international bimetallism will have early and earnest attention. It will be
my constant endeavor to secure it by co-operation with the other great commercial powers of
the world. Until that condition is realized when the parity between our gold and silver money
springs from and is supported by the relative value of the two metals, the value of the silver
already coined and of that which may hereafter be coined, must be kept constantly at par with
gold by every resource at our command. The credit of the Government, the integrity of its currency,
and the inviolability of its obligations must be preserved. This was the commanding verdict
of the people, and it will not be unheeded.

Economy is demanded in every branch of the Government at all times, but especially in periods,
like the present, of depression in business and distress among the people. The severest economy
must be observed in all public expenditures, and extravagance stopped wherever it is found,
and prevented wherever in the future it may be developed. If the revenues are to remain as
now, the only relief that can come must be from decreased expenditures. But the present must
not become the permanent condition of the Government. It has been our uniform practice to retire,
not increase our outstanding obligations, and this policy must again be resumed and vigorously
enforced. Our revenues should always be large enough to meet with ease and promptness not only
our current needs and the principal and interest of the public debt, but to make proper and
liberal provision for that most deserving body of public creditors, the soldiers and sailors
and the widows and orphans who are the pensioners of the United States.

The Government should not be permitted to run behind or increase its debt in times like the
present. Suitably to provide against this is the mandate of duty--the certain and easy remedy
for most of our financial difficulties. A deficiency is inevitable so long as the expenditures
of the Government exceed its receipts. It can only be met by loans or an increased revenue.
While a large annual surplus of revenue may invite waste and extravagance, inadequate revenue
creates distrust and undermines public and private credit. Neither should be encouraged. Between
more loans and more revenue there ought to be but one opinion. We should have more revenue,
and that without delay, hindrance, or postponement. A surplus in the Treasury created by loans
is not a permanent or safe reliance. It will suffice while it lasts, but it can not last long
while the outlays of the Government are greater than its receipts, as has been the case during
the past two years. Nor must it be forgotten that however much such loans may temporarily relieve
the situation, the Government is still indebted for the amount of the surplus thus accrued,
which it must ultimately pay, while its ability to pay is not strengthened, but weakened by
a continued deficit. Loans are imperative in great emergencies to preserve the Government or
its credit, but a failure to supply needed revenue in time of peace for the maintenance of
either has no justification.

The best way for the Government to maintain its credit is to pay as it goes--not by resorting
to loans, but by keeping out of debt--through an adequate income secured by a system of taxation,
external or internal, or both. It is the settled policy of the Government, pursued from the
beginning and practised by all parties and Administrations, to raise the bulk of our revenue
from taxes upon foreign productions entering the United States for sale and consumption, and
avoiding, for the most part, every form of direct taxation, except in time of war. The country
is clearly opposed to any needless additions to the subject of internal taxation, and is committed
by its latest popular utterance to the system of tariff taxation. There can be no misunderstanding,
either, about the principle upon which this tariff taxation shall be levied. Nothing has ever
been made plainer at a general election than that the controlling principle in the raising
of revenue from duties on imports is zealous care for American interests and American labor.
The people have declared that such legislation should be had as will give ample protection
and encouragement to the industries and the development of our country. It is, therefore, earnestly
hoped and expected that Congress will, at the earliest practicable moment, enact revenue legislation
that shall be fair, reasonable, conservative, and just, and which, while supplying sufficient
revenue for public purposes, will still be signally beneficial and helpful to every section
and every enterprise of the people. To this policy we are all, of whatever party, firmly bound
by the voice of the people--a power vastly more potential than the expression of any political
platform. The paramount duty of Congress is to stop deficiencies by the restoration of that
protective legislation which has always been the firmest prop of the Treasury. The passage
of such a law or laws would strengthen the credit of the Government both at home and abroad,
and go far toward stopping the drain upon the gold reserve held for the redemption of our currency,
which has been heavy and well-nigh constant for several years.

In the revision of the tariff especial attention should be given to the re-enactment and extension
of the reciprocity principle of the law of 1890, under which so great a stimulus was given
to our foreign trade in new and advantageous markets for our surplus agricultural and manufactured
products. The brief trial given this legislation amply justifies a further experiment and additional
discretionary power in the making of commercial treaties, the end in view always to be the
opening up of new markets for the products of our country, by granting concessions to the products
of other lands that we need and cannot produce ourselves, and which do not involve any loss
of labor to our own people, but tend to increase their employment.

The depression of the past four years has fallen with especial severity upon the great body
of toilers of the country, and upon none more than the holders of small farms. Agriculture
has languished and labor suffered. The revival of manufacturing will be a relief to both. No
portion of our population is more devoted to the institution of free government nor more loyal
in their support, while none bears more cheerfully or fully its proper share in the maintenance
of the Government or is better entitled to its wise and liberal care and protection. Legislation
helpful to producers is beneficial to all. The depressed condition of industry on the farm
and in the mine and factory has lessened the ability of the people to meet the demands upon
them, and they rightfully expect that not only a system of revenue shall be established that
will secure the largest income with the least burden, but that every means will be taken to
decrease, rather than increase, our public expenditures. Business conditions are not the most
promising. It will take time to restore the prosperity of former years. If we cannot promptly
attain it, we can resolutely turn our faces in that direction and aid its return by friendly
legislation. However troublesome the situation may appear, Congress will not, I am sure, be
found lacking in disposition or ability to relieve it as far as legislation can do so. The
restoration of confidence and the revival of business, which men of all parties so much desire,
depend more largely upon the prompt, energetic, and intelligent action of Congress than upon
any other single agency affecting the situation.

It is inspiring, too, to remember that no great emergency in the one hundred and eight years
of our eventful national life has ever arisen that has not been met with wisdom and courage
by the American people, with fidelity to their best interests and highest destiny, and to the
honor of the American name. These years of glorious history have exalted mankind and advanced
the cause of freedom throughout the world, and immeasurably strengthened the precious free
institutions which we enjoy. The people love and will sustain these institutions. The great
essential to our happiness and prosperity is that we adhere to the principles upon which the
Government was established and insist upon their faithful observance. Equality of rights must
prevail, and our laws be always and everywhere respected and obeyed. We may have failed in
the discharge of our full duty as citizens of the great Republic, but it is consoling and encouraging
to realize that free speech, a free press, free thought, free schools, the free and unmolested
right of religious liberty and worship, and free and fair elections are dearer and more universally
enjoyed to-day than ever before. These guaranties must be sacredly preserved and wisely strengthened.
The constituted authorities must be cheerfully and vigorously upheld.

One of the lessons taught by the late election, which all can rejoice in, is that the citizens
of the United States are both law-respecting and law-abiding people, not easily swerved from
the path of patriotism and honor. This is in entire accord with the genius of our institutions,
and but emphasizes the advantages of inculcating even a greater love for law and order in the
future. Immunity should be granted to none who violate the laws, whether individuals, corporations,
or communities; and as the Constitution imposes upon the President the duty of both its own
execution, and of the statutes enacted in pursuance of its provisions, I shall endeavor carefully
to carry them into effect. The declaration of the party now restored to power has been in the
past that of "opposition to all combinations of capital organized in trusts, or otherwise,
to control arbitrarily the condition of trade among our citizens," and it has supported "such
legislation as will prevent the execution of all schemes to oppress the people by undue charges
on their supplies, or by unjust rates for the transportation of their products to the market."
This purpose will be steadily pursued, both by the enforcement of the laws now in existence
and the recommendation and support of such new statutes as may be necessary to carry it into
effect.

Our naturalization and immigration laws should be further improved to the constant promotion
of a safer, a better, and a higher citizenship. A grave peril to the Republic would be a citizenship
too ignorant to understand or too vicious to appreciate the great value and beneficence of
our institutions and laws, and against all who come here to make war upon them our gates must
be promptly and tightly closed. Nor must we be unmindful of the need of improvement among our
own citizens, but with the zeal of our forefathers encourage the spread of knowledge and free
education. Illiteracy must be banished from the land if we shall attain that high destiny as
the foremost of the enlightened nations of the world which, under Providence, we ought to achieve.

Reforms in the civil service must go on; but the changes should be real and genuine, not perfunctory,
or prompted by a zeal in behalf of any party simply because it happens to be in power. As a
member of Congress I voted and spoke in favor of the present law, and I shall attempt its enforcement
in the spirit in which it was enacted. The purpose in view was to secure the most efficient
service of the best men who would accept appointment under the Government, retaining faithful
and devoted public servants in office, but shielding none, under the authority of any rule
or custom, who are inefficient, incompetent, or unworthy. The best interests of the country
demand this, and the people heartily approve the law wherever and whenever it has been thus
administrated.

Congress should give prompt attention to the restoration of our American merchant marine, once
the pride of the seas in all the great ocean highways of commerce. To my mind, few more important
subjects so imperatively demand its intelligent consideration. The United States has progressed
with marvelous rapidity in every field of enterprise and endeavor until we have become foremost
in nearly all the great lines of inland trade, commerce, and industry. Yet, while this is true,
our American merchant marine has been steadily declining until it is now lower, both in the
percentage of tonnage and the number of vessels employed, than it was prior to the Civil War.
Commendable progress has been made of late years in the upbuilding of the American Navy, but
we must supplement these efforts by providing as a proper consort for it a merchant marine
amply sufficient for our own carrying trade to foreign countries. The question is one that
appeals both to our business necessities and the patriotic aspirations of a great people.

It has been the policy of the United States since the foundation of the Government to cultivate
relations of peace and amity with all the nations of the world, and this accords with my conception
of our duty now. We have cherished the policy of non-interference with the affairs of foreign
governments wisely inaugurated by Washington, keeping ourselves free from entanglement, either
as allies or foes, content to leave undisturbed with them the settlement of their own domestic
concerns. It will be our aim to pursue a firm and dignified foreign policy, which shall be
just, impartial, ever watchful of our national honor, and always insisting upon the enforcement
of the lawful rights of American citizens everywhere. Our diplomacy should seek nothing more
and accept nothing less than is due us. We want no wars of conquest; we must avoid the temptation
of territorial aggression. War should never be entered upon until every agency of peace has
failed; peace is preferable to war in almost every contingency. Arbitration is the true method
of settlement of international as well as local or individual differences. It was recognized
as the best means of adjustment of differences between employers and employees by the Forty-ninth
Congress, in 1886, and its application was extended to our diplomatic relations by the unanimous
concurrence of the Senate and House of the Fifty-first Congress in 1890. The latter resolution
was accepted as the basis of negotiations with us by the British House of Commons in 1893,
and upon our invitation a treaty of arbitration between the United States and Great Britain
was signed at Washington and transmitted to the Senate for its ratification in January last.
Since this treaty is clearly the result of our own initiative; since it has been recognized
as the leading feature of our foreign policy throughout our entire national history--the adjustment
of difficulties by judicial methods rather than force of arms--and since it presents to the
world the glorious example of reason and peace, not passion and war, controlling the relations
between two of the greatest nations in the world, an example certain to be followed by others,
I respectfully urge the early action of the Senate thereon, not merely as a matter of policy,
but as a duty to mankind. The importance and moral influence of the ratification of such a
treaty can hardly be overestimated in the cause of advancing civilization. It may well engage
the best thought of the statesmen and people of every country, and I cannot but consider it
fortunate that it was reserved to the United States to have the leadership in so grand a work.

It has been the uniform practice of each President to avoid, as far as possible, the convening
of Congress in extraordinary session. It is an example which, under ordinary circumstances
and in the absence of a public necessity, is to be commended. But a failure to convene the
representatives of the people in Congress in extra session when it involves neglect of a public
duty places the responsibility of such neglect upon the Executive himself. The condition of
the public Treasury, as has been indicated, demands the immediate consideration of Congress.
It alone has the power to provide revenues for the Government. Not to convene it under such
circumstances I can view in no other sense than the neglect of a plain duty. I do not sympathize
with the sentiment that Congress in session is dangerous to our general business interests.
Its members are the agents of the people, and their presence at the seat of Government in the
execution of the sovereign will should not operate as an injury, but a benefit. There could
be no better time to put the Government upon a sound financial and economic basis than now.
The people have only recently voted that this should be done, and nothing is more binding upon
the agents of their will than the obligation of immediate action. It has always seemed to me
that the postponement of the meeting of Congress until more than a year after it has been chosen
deprived Congress too often of the inspiration of the popular will and the country of the corresponding
benefits. It is evident, therefore, that to postpone action in the presence of so great a necessity
would be unwise on the part of the Executive because unjust to the interests of the people.
Our action now will be freer from mere partisan consideration than if the question of tariff
revision was postponed until the regular session of Congress. We are nearly two years from
a Congressional election, and politics cannot so greatly distract us as if such contest was
immediately pending. We can approach the problem calmly and patriotically, without fearing
its effect upon an early election.

Our fellow-citizens who may disagree with us upon the character of this legislation prefer
to have the question settled now, even against their preconceived views, and perhaps settled
so reasonably, as I trust and believe it will be, as to insure great permanence, than to have
further uncertainty menacing the vast and varied business interests of the United States. Again,
whatever action Congress may take will be given a fair opportunity for trial before the people
are called to pass judgment upon it, and this I consider a great essential to the rightful
and lasting settlement of the question. In view of these considerations, I shall deem it my
duty as President to convene Congress in extraordinary session on Monday, the 15th day of March,
1897.

In conclusion, I congratulate the country upon the fraternal spirit of the people and the manifestations
of good will everywhere so apparent. The recent election not only most fortunately demonstrated
the obliteration of sectional or geographical lines, but to some extent also the prejudices
which for years have distracted our councils and marred our true greatness as a nation. The
triumph of the people, whose verdict is carried into effect to-day, is not the triumph of one
section, nor wholly of one party, but of all sections and all the people. The North and the
South no longer divide on the old lines, but upon principles and policies; and in this fact
surely every lover of the country can find cause for true felicitation. Let us rejoice in and
cultivate this spirit; it is ennobling and will be both a gain and a blessing to our beloved
country. It will be my constant aim to do nothing, and permit nothing to be done, that will
arrest or disturb this growing sentiment of unity and co-operation, this revival of esteem
and affiliation which now animates so many thousands in both the old antagonistic sections,
but I shall cheerfully do everything possible to promote and increase it. This is the obligation
I have reverently taken before the Lord Most High. To keep it will be my single purpose, my
constant prayer; and I shall confidently rely upon the forbearance and assistance of all the
people in the discharge of my solemn responsibilities.

MESSAGES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, March 15, 1897.

To the Congress of the United States:

Regretting the necessity which has required me to call you together, I feel that your assembling
in extraordinary session is indispensable because of the condition in which we find the revenues
of the Government. It is conceded that its current expenditures are greater than its receipts,
and that such a condition has existed for now more than three years. With unlimited means at
our command, we are presenting the remarkable spectacle of increasing our public debt by borrowing
money to meet the ordinary outlays incident upon even an economical and prudent administration
of the Government. An examination of the subject discloses this fact in every detail and leads
inevitably to the conclusion that the condition of the revenue which allows it is unjustifiable
and should be corrected. During that fiscal year $40,570,467.98 were paid upon the public debt,
which had been reduced since March 1, 1889, $259,076,890, and the annual interest charge decreased
$11,684,576.60.

Since that time the receipts of no fiscal year, and with but few exceptions of no month of
any fiscal year, have exceeded the expenditures. Notwithstanding there was a decrease of $16,769,128.78
in the ordinary expenses of the Government, as compared with the previous fiscal year, its
income was still not sufficient to provide for its daily necessities, and the gold reserve
in the Treasury for the redemption of greenbacks was drawn upon to meet them. But this did
not suffice, and the Government then resorted to loans to replenish the reserve.

In February, 1894, $50,000,000 in bonds were issued, and in November following a second issue
of $50,000,000 was deemed necessary. The sum of $117,171,795 was realized by the sale of these
bonds, but the reserve was steadily decreased until, on February 8, 1895, a third sale of $62,315,400
in bonds, for $65,116,244, was announced to Congress.

The receipts of the Government for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1895, were $390,373,203.30
and the expenditures $433,178,426.48, showing a deficit of $42,805,223.18. A further loan of
$100,000,000 was negotiated by the Government in February, 1896, the sale netting $111,166,246,
and swelling the aggregate of bonds issued within three years to $262,315,400. For the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1896, the revenues of the Government from all sources amounted to $409,475,408.78,
while its expenditures were $434,678,654.48, or an excess of expenditures over receipts of
$25,203,245.70. In other words, the total receipts for the three fiscal years ending June 30,
1896, were insufficient by $137,811,729.46 to meet the total expenditures.

Nor has this condition since improved. For the first half of the present fiscal year, the receipts
of the Government, exclusive of postal revenues, were $157,507,603.76, and its expenditures,
exclusive of postal service, $195,410,000.22, or an excess of expenditures over receipts of
$37,902,396.46. In January of this year, the receipts, exclusive of postal revenues, were $24,316,994.05,
and the expenditures, exclusive of postal service, $30,269,389.29, a deficit of $5,952,395.24
for the month. In February of this year, the receipts, exclusive of postal revenues, were $24,400,997.38,
and expenditures, exclusive of postal service, $28,796,056.66, a deficit of $4,395,059.28;
or a total deficiency of $186,061,580.44 for the three years and eight months ending March
1, 1897. Not only are we without a surplus in the Treasury, but with an increase in the public
debt there has been a corresponding increase in the annual interest charge, from $22,893,883.20
in 1892, the lowest of any year since 1862, to $34,387,297.60 in 1896, or an increase of $11,493,414.40.

It may be urged that even if the revenues of the Government had been sufficient to meet all
its ordinary expenses during the past three years, the gold reserve would still have been insufficient
to meet the demands upon it, and that bonds would necessarily have been issued for its repletion.
Be this as it may, it is clearly manifest, without denying or affirming the correctness of
such a conclusion, that the debt would have been decreased in at least the amount of the deficiency,
and business confidence immeasurably strengthened throughout the country.

Congress should promptly correct the existing condition. Ample revenues must be supplied not
only for the ordinary expenses of the Government, but for the prompt payment of liberal pensions
and the liquidation of the principal and interest of the public debt. In raising revenue, duties
should be so levied upon foreign products as to preserve the home market, so far as possible,
to our own producers; to revive and increase manufactures; to relieve and encourage agriculture;
to increase our domestic and foreign commerce; to aid and develop mining and building; and
to render to labor in every field of useful occupation the liberal wages and adequate rewards
to which skill and industry are justly entitled. The necessity of the passage of a tariff law
which shall provide ample revenue, need not be further urged. The imperative demand of the
hour is the prompt enactment of such a measure, and to this object I earnestly recommend that
Congress shall make every endeavor. Before other business is transacted, let us first provide
sufficient revenue to faithfully administer the Government without the contracting of further
debt, or the continued disturbance of our finances.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, April 7, 1897.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

Information which has recently come to me from the governors of Arkansas, Mississippi, and
Louisiana, and from prominent citizens of these States and Tennessee, warrants the conclusion
that widespread distress, involving the destruction of a large amount of property and loss
of human life, has resulted from the floods which have submerged that section of the country.
These are stated, on reliable authority, to be the most destructive floods that have ever devastated
the Mississippi Valley, the water being much higher than the highest stage it has reached before.
From Marion, Ark., north of Memphis, to Greenville, Miss., a distance of more than 250 miles
by river, it is reported there are now at least fifty towns and villages under water, and a
territory extending from 100 miles north of Memphis to 200 miles south, and from 5 to 40 miles
wide, is submerged. Hundreds of thousands of acres of cultivated soil, with growing crops,
are included in the submerged territory. In this section alone there are from 50,000 to 60,000
people whose property has been destroyed and whose business has been suspended. Growing crops
have been ruined, thousands of cattle have been drowned, and the inhabitants of certain areas
threatened with starvation. As a great majority of the sufferers are small farmers, they have
thus been left entirely destitute, and will be unprepared for work even after the floods have
subsided.

The entire Mississippi Valley in Arkansas is flooded and communication with many points cut
off. In Mississippi a like condition exists. The levees in Louisiana, with a single exception,
have held; but the water is rising and the situation there is reported as being extremely critical.

Under such circumstances the citizens of these States look for the co-operation and support
of the National Government in relieving the pressing cases of destitution for food, clothing,
and shelter, which are beyond the reach of local efforts. The authorities who have communicated
with the Executive recognize that their first and most energetic duty is to provide as far
as possible the means of caring for their own citizens; but nearly all of them agree in the
opinion that after their resources have been exhausted a sum aggregating at least $150,000
and possibly $200,000 will be required for immediate use.

Precedents are not wanting that in such emergencies as this Congress has taken prompt, generous,
and intelligent action, involving the expenditure of considerable sums of money, with satisfactory
results. In 1874 $590,000 was appropriated, and in 1882 $350,000 was also appropriated for
relief in same direction, besides large sums in other years.

The citizens' relief committee of Memphis has taken prompt action, has already cared for from
6,000 to 7,000 refugees from the flooded districts, and they are still arriving in that city
in large numbers daily. Supplies and provisions have been sent to the various points in Arkansas
and Mississippi by this committee, but the utmost that can be done by these efforts is to partly
relieve the most acute cases of suffering. No action has yet been taken for the great majority
of the inhabitants living in the interior, whose condition has already been described.

Under these conditions and having exerted themselves to the fullest extent, the local authorities
have reluctantly confessed their inability to further cope with this distressing situation
unaided by relief from the Government. It has therefore seemed to me that the representatives
of the people should be promptly informed of the nature and extent of the suffering and needs
of these stricken people, and I have communicated these facts in the hope and belief that the
legislative branch of the Government will promptly re-enforce the work of the local authorities
in the States named.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, April 14, 1897.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith for the consideration of the respective Houses of the Congress, a report
of the Secretary of State representing the appropriateness of early action in order that the
Government of the United States may be enabled to accept the invitation of that of the French
Republic to participate in the Universal Exposition to be held at Paris in 1900.

The recommendations of this report have my most cordial approval, and I urge upon the Congress
such timely provision for this great international enterprise as will fittingly respond to
the widely testified wish and expectation of our inventors and producers that they may have
adequate opportunity again, as in the past, to fortify the important positions that have won
in the world's competitive fields of discovery and industry. Nor are the traditional friendships
of the United States and France and the mutual advantages to accrue from their enlarged commercial
intercourse less important factors than the individual interests to be fostered by renewed
participation in a great French exposition, especially when it is remembered that the present
display is projected with a degree of completeness and on a scale of magnificence beyond any
of the European exhibitions that have marked the close of the century.

It is proper that I should emphasize the need of early action, for if the present session pass
without suitable provision being made, the postponement of the matter for nearly a year longer
could not but operate greatly to the disadvantage of the United States, in view of the elaborate
preparations already making by other governments, and of the danger that further delay may
result in an inadequate allotment of space to this country as well as an incomplete organization
of the American exhibit.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, May 3, 1897.

To the Congress of the United States:

I transmit a report from the Secretary of State reciting the circumstances attending the lynching
at Hahnville, La., on the night of August 8, 1896, of three Italian subjects, named Salvatore
Arena, Giuseppe Venturelia, and Lorenzo Salardino, and I recommend the appropriation by Congress,
without admitting the liability of the Government of the United States in the premises, of
the sum of $6,000, to be paid by the Secretary of State to the Government of Italy, and to
be distributed by that government in such manner as it may deem proper among the heirs of the
three Italian subjects above named.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, May 13, 1897.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit herewith, in response to the Senate resolution of April 22, 1897, addressed to the
Secretary of State, a report from that officer relative to diplomatic and consular reports
on postal savings banks systems in foreign countries.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, May 17, 1897.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

Official information from our consuls in Cuba establishes the fact that a large number of American
citizens in the island are in a state of destitution, suffering for want of food and medicines.
This applies particularly to the rural districts of the central and eastern parts.

The agricultural classes have been forced from their farms into the nearest towns, where they
are without work or money. The local authorities of the several towns, however kindly disposed,
are unable to relieve the needs of their own people, and are altogether powerless to help our
citizens.

The latest report of Consul-General Lee estimates six to eight hundred Americans are without
means of support. I have assured him that provision would be made at once to relieve them.
To that end I recommend that Congress make an appropriation of not less than $50,000, to be
immediately available for use, under the direction of the Secretary of State.

It is desirable that a part of the sum which may be appropriated by Congress should, in the
discretion of the Secretary of State, also be used for the transportation of American citizens
who, desiring to return to the United States, are without means to do so.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, July 1, 1897.

To the Congress of the United States:

On the 15th ultimo all the buildings of the immigration station at Ellis Island, New York,
excepting the heating plant and lighting apparatus, were destroyed by fire.

I transmit herewith a letter from the Secretary of the Treasury, which states the fact and
explains the need of rebuilding.

In order that there may be no delay in this important work, I recommend that an appropriation
be made at once of $600,000, the sum estimated by the Secretary of the Treasury as required
for this purpose.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, July 23, 1897.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, July 24, 1897.

To the Congress of the United States:

In my message convening the Congress in extraordinary session I called attention to a single
subject--that of providing revenue adequate to meet the reasonable and proper expenses of the
Government. I believed that to be the most pressing subject for settlement then. A bill to
provide the necessary revenues for the Government has already passed the House of Representatives
and the Senate and awaits executive action.

Another question of very great importance is that of the establishment of our currency and
banking system on a better basis, which I commented upon in my inaugural address in the following
words:

  Our financial system needs some revision; our money is all good now,
  but its value must not further be threatened. It should all be put upon
  an enduring basis, not subject to easy attack, nor its stability to
  doubt or dispute. The several forms of our paper money offer, in my
  judgment, a constant embarrassment to the Government and imperil a safe
  balance in the Treasury.

Nothing was settled more clearly at the late national election than the determination upon
the part of the people to keep their currency stable in value and equal to that of the most
advanced nations of the world.

The soundness of our currency is nowhere questioned. No loss can occur to its holders. It is
the system which should be simplified and strengthened, keeping our money just as good as it
is now with less expense to the Government and the people.

The sentiment of the country is strongly in favor of early action by Congress in this direction,
to revise our currency laws and remove them from partisan contention. A notable assembly of
business men with delegates from twenty-nine States and Territories was held at Indianapolis
in January of this year. The financial situation commanded their earnest attention, and after
a two days' session the convention recommended to Congress the appointment of a monetary commission.

I recommend this report to the consideration of Congress. The authors of the report recommend
a commission "to make a thorough investigation of the monetary affairs and needs of this country
in all relations and aspects, and to make proper suggestions as to any evils found to exist
and the remedies therefor."

This subject should receive the attention of Congress at its special session. It ought not
to be postponed until the regular session.

I therefore urgently recommend that a special commission be created, non-partisan in its character,
to be composed of well-informed citizens of different parties who will command the confidence
of Congress and the country because of their special fitness for the work, whose duty it shall
be to make recommendations of whatever changes in our present banking and currency laws may
be found necessary and expedient, and to report their conclusions on or before the 1st day
of November next, in order that the same may be transmitted by me to Congress for its consideration
at its first regular session.

It is to be hoped that the report thus made will be so comprehensive and sound as to receive
the support of all parties and the favorable action of Congress. At all events, such a report
cannot fail to be of value to the executive branch of the Government, as well as to those charged
with public legislation, and to greatly assist in the establishment of an improved system of
finance.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

FIRST ANNUAL MESSAGE.

       *       *       *       *       *

           [See Vol.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, December 6, 1897.

Maj. Moses P. Handy of Chicago, was appointed such special commissioner, and I now enclose
his report, giving the details of his mission. It is a comprehensive and clear presentation
of the situation. He recommends that an appropriation of $919,600 be granted, so that a creditable
exhibit on behalf of the United States may be made. The details of this report will show how
this appropriation may be profitably expended.

Besides securing a much larger amount of space than had been reserved, Major Handy obtained
the gratifying assurance that the United States will be placed on a footing with the most favored
nations, and "that in the installation of every important department the United States will
have a location commensurate with the dignity and importance of the country and adjoining in
every case countries of the first rank."

In view of the magnitude and importance of the approaching exposition, and of our standing
among the nations which will be there represented, and in view also of our increased population
and acknowledged progress in arts, science, and manufactures, I earnestly commend the report
of Major Handy to your consideration, and trust that a liberal appropriation may be made.

Moreover, the magnificent exhibit of the French Republic at Chicago in 1893, on which a million
dollars were expended, should be a strong incentive to reciprocal liberality on the part of
the Government of the United States, and suggests to our citizens the necessity as well as
the propriety of installing at the Paris Exposition an exhibit on a par with that of the Government
and people of France at Chicago, and in keeping with the scope and extent of the preparations
which are being made by nearly all the important nations of the earth for their proposed exhibits
in that exposition.

I suggest that the subject be given timely and favorable consideration.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 14, 1898.

To the Congress of the United States:

I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of State in regard to the award of the commissioners
appointed pursuant to the stipulations of the convention of February 8, 1896, between the United
States and Great Britain, providing for the settlement of the claims presented by the latter
against the former in virtue of the convention of February 29, 1892.

The report of the Secretary of State presents a clear epitome of the award and renders unnecessary
any extended observations on my part further than to say that I cordially coincide with his
recommendation and that our treaty obligations demand prompt and favorable action by Congress,
which I urgently hope may be taken, to the end that these long-pending questions may be finally
and satisfactorily terminated.

The total amount necessary to satisfy the award of the commissioners is $473,151.26, which
I recommend be appropriated.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 18, 1898.

Following the course adopted in the case of the lynching of three Italian subjects at Hahnville,
La., on August 8, 1896, I recommend the appropriation by Congress, out of humane consideration
and without reference to the question of liability of the Government of the United States in
the premises, of the sum of $2,000 to be paid by the Secretary of State to the Government of
Mexico, to be by that Government distributed among the heirs of the above-named Luis Moreno.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 26, 1898.

To the Congress:

I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of State and accompanying papers presenting
the claim of Capt. B. Tellefsen, of the Norwegian steamer Albert, against the Government of
the United States, for $998.96, being the expenses incurred by him in consequence of a violation
of Article XIII of the treaty of commerce and navigation of 1827 between the United States
and Sweden and Norway.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, March 22, 1898.

To the Senate:

In connection with Senate Document No. 39, Fifty-fifth Congress, second session, and in further
response to the resolution of the Senate of July 12, 1897, I transmit herewith a report from
the Secretary of State, with additional papers, relating to postal telegraphs, telephones,
and postal savings banks in Austria.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, March 31, 1898.

To the Congress:

I transmit herewith, for the information of Congress, a communication from the Secretary of
Agriculture covering a detailed report showing the present condition of the beet-sugar industry
in this country and the results of experiments made by the Department of Agriculture in the
production of sugar from beets in the United States during the past year.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, April 4, 1898.

To the Senate of the United States:

In response to the resolution of the Senate of January 17, 1898, I transmit a report from the
Secretary of State, accompanied by copies of correspondence exchanged between Henry Woodruff,
trustee and of counsel for the holders of a majority of the first-mortgage bonds of "The Railway
of the East," of Venezuela, et al., and the Department of State, and by a list of claims of
citizens of the United States presented after August 1, 1898, and, so far as appears, not settled
by Venezuela, nor disposed of by the commission of 1889-90.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, April 7, 1898.

To the Senate:

In response to the resolution of the Senate of February 26, 1898, requesting the President
"if not incompatible with the public interest, to transmit to the Senate the proceedings of
the international commission authorized in the concurrent resolution of Congress of April 29,
1890, and a subsequent international convention between the United States and Mexico of May
6, 1896, and also the correspondence relating thereto with Mexico by the Department of the
Interior, Department of War, and Department of Justice, as well as the Department of State,
relating to the equitable distribution of the waters of the Rio Grande River, including the
draft of an incomplete treaty between said Governments, negotiated between the late Secretary
of State, Mr. Olney, on the part of the United States, and Mr. Romero, on the part of Mexico,
and all the correspondence between said officials relating thereto," I transmit herewith reports
from the Secretary of State, the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Attorney-General,
with accompanying papers.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, April 15, 1898.

To the Senate:

In connection with Senate Document No. 39, Fifty-fifth Congress, second session, and in further
response to the resolution of the Senate of July 12, 1897, I transmit herewith a report from
the Secretary of State, with accompanying papers relating to postal telegraphs, telephones,
and postal savings banks in the colony of Victoria.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, April 27, 1898.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, May 16, 1898. In view of the value of these reports to the business interests
of the country, I indorse the recommendation of the Secretary of State that Congress authorize
the printing of a special edition of 10,000 copies of the general summary entitled "Review
of the World's Commerce," and 5,000 copies of Commercial Relations (including this summary),
to enable the Department of State to meet the demands for such information.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, May 16, 1898.

To the House of Representatives:

I return herewith to the House of Representatives, in which it originated, House bill No. 2219,
entitled "An act for the relief of the administrators of Isaac P. Tice, deceased, and others,"
without my approval.

The object of this bill is to confer upon the Court of Claims jurisdiction to retry and determine
a case brought by the representatives of Isaac P. Tice against the United States in the Court
of Claims in the year 1873 to recover from the Government the sum of $25,000, the alleged value
of certain meters invented by Isaac P. Tice for the purpose of measuring the quality and strength
of distilled spirits.

It was claimed that this amount, together with the sum of $733.33 for storage of said meters,
was due to the claimant under a contract made between Tice and the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue in pursuance of section 15 of the act of March 2, 1867 (14 Stats., 481). From the report
of the case in 13 Court of Claims Reports, 112, it appears that the matter was fully and deliberately
tried and argued both on behalf of the claimant and of the United States, and that at December
term, 1877, the Court of Claims rendered a decision adverse to the claimant, expressly stating
that the claimants had failed to establish their claim both in law and on the facts. Not satisfied
with this conclusion of the Court of Claims, the claimants took an appeal to the Supreme Court
of the United States, where the case was again argued and was decided, October term, 1878,
the judgment of the Court of Claims being declared to be in accordance with the law and therefore
affirmed. In these two decisions the law and the facts pertaining to the claim were fully set
forth and discussed.

The bill further confers upon the Court of Claims jurisdiction to try and determine certain
alleged claims of said Tice and others for money collected on account of the Tice meters, but
not paid over to him or them under the regulations of the Treasury.

The amount of the latter claim, according to the report of the committee of the House of Representatives
to which this bill was referred, is $140,000. It does not appear from the report of the committee,
nor from any documents to which I have access, who are the other persons by whom this latter
sum is claimed. The claim for $140,000 must have accrued prior to July, 1871, and therefore
at this time is of at least twenty-seven years' standing.

It will thus be perceived that the object of the bill is to remove from the pathway of the
claimants two legal bars to the prosecution of their claim in the courts--one, the bar of the
statute of limitations, which requires all claimants against the Government to present their
claims and bring actions thereon within six years from the time the cause of action accrues;
and the other, that bar of estoppel which arises by reason of a former adverse judgment, rendered
in a court of competent jurisdiction. This is not a general modification of the law in these
respects, but a special application of it to these particular claimants.

If the principle on which the statute of limitations is founded is wise and beneficent, then
the effect of it ought not to be impaired by special legislative exemptions in favor of particular
persons or cases except upon very clear and just grounds, where no lack of diligence in the
prosecution of the claim is apparent. I cannot find in the papers submitted to me any sufficient
grounds to justify a special exception from the ordinary rule in favor of these claimants.
As to the claim for $140,000, no reason is stated why it was not included in the original suit
nor why action upon it was not brought against the Government within the six years allowed
by the statute for that purpose. To permit such an action to be brought now is simply, without
any reason of a special nature, to grant a privilege to these claimants which is denied to
all other citizens of the United States, in accordance with the provisions of the general statute
of limitations. The principle underlying statutes of limitations and the reasons for the maintenance
of such a rule of litigation are much more cogent when applied to claims against the Government
than when applied to claims against individuals.

These claims do not differ in their character from ordinary business transactions such as transpire
every day between private persons or business corporations. The Government can only defend
itself against claims of this nature through its public officers and with the use of such public
records as the Departments may furnish. Great difficulties are experienced by it in contesting
fraudulent and unjust claims, and it is only fair in the interest of the public that a rigorous
adherence to some rule of limitation should be maintained.

The provision of the bill which practically directs a new trial of the claim for $25,000, decided
adversely to the claimants more than twenty years ago, is still more objectionable. These parties
had their day in court. They produced their witnesses and were heard both originally and upon
appeal, and upon the case they were then able to make the court decided they had no claim against
the Government. It is now suggested that other witnesses have been discovered who can supply
the lack of proof which was produced on the former trial. Such a ground for a new trial would
never be considered in any court of law in the land in a case between private parties where
such a length of time had intervened since the former trial. No explanation of a satisfactory
nature is furnished for the failure of the claimants to produce these witnesses upon the original
trial.

The bill further provides that upon a retrial of the original claim, or upon the trial of the
new claim, the claimants shall be at liberty to offer in evidence the depositions of witnesses
now on the files of any of the committees of Congress in relation to the aforesaid matters,
which may be introduced as evidence in case of the death or disability of the deponents.

This provision will enable the claimants to present ex-parte affidavits, prepared by the claimants
or their attorneys, without opportunity being afforded to the Government to cross-examine,
provided the claimants can show that the deposing witnesses are either dead or under disability,
by which, no doubt, is intended any such disability by reason of absence, illness, and the
like, as may render them legally incapable of being produced in person to testify upon the
retrial. Such a provision as this is most dangerous to the interests of the Government.

I fail to see any reason in the facts connected with these claims for granting to these parties
relief of this extraordinary nature.

The Treasury of the United States ought to be very carefully guarded against attacks of those
who come forward with stale claims, and especially from the attacks of those who have already
been fully heard according to the methods prescribed by the statutes.

To approve this bill would be to furnish a very dangerous precedent which would open the door
to demands upon Congress in other cases which have been fully heard and determined.

For these reasons I am constrained to withhold my approval from this bill.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, June 14, 1898.

To the Congress of the United States:

I transmit herewith (having reference to Senate Document No. 4, Fifty-fifth Congress, second
session) a report made by Thomas W. Cridler, Third Assistant Secretary of State, who, upon
the death of Maj. Moses P. Handy, I designated to continue the work as special commissioner,
under the act of Congress approved July 19, 1897, in relation to the acceptance by the Government
of the United States of the invitation of France to participate in the International Exposition
to be held at Paris from April 15 to November 5, 1900.

I cordially renew my recommendation that a liberal appropriation be immediately granted.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, June 23, 1898.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of the Interior relative to Senate resolution
of June 10, 1898, requesting the President "to make such arrangements as may be necessary to
secure at the Trans-Mississippi and International Exposition to be held in the city of Omaha,
Neb., the attendance of representatives of the Iroquois tribes and Delawares of Canada and
of the Abenakis of St. Francis and Becaucourt, and such other Indian nations as have emigrated
from the territory now of the United States to Canada."

To carry out this resolution, if it shall be found agreeable to the Government of Canada, it
will be necessary for this Government to send an agent to visit the tribes and secure their
assent, organize the representative delegations, escort them to the exposition, take charge
of and care for them while there and until they are returned to their respective tribes.

The resolution seems to presuppose that there are funds which may be lawfully used to defray
the expenses which must necessarily be incurred in the premises. By reference to the Secretary's
report, it will be seen that there are no moneys lawfully available for that purpose.

It is not to be presumed that the Senate, under such circumstances, would desire the Executive
to take the action indicated in the resolution, and I am therefore constrained to await the
requisite appropriation by Congress for the payment of the expenses that must be necessarily
incurred in the accomplishment of the proposed objects.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, December 6, 1898.

To the Congress of the United States:

I transmit herewith, for the information of the Congress, the report of the Hawaiian Commission
appointed in pursuance of the "Joint resolution to provide for annexing the Hawaiian Islands
to the United States," approved July 7, 1898, together with a copy of the civil and penal laws
of Hawaii.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 5, 1899.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of Agriculture on the work and expenditures of
the agricultural experiment stations established under the act of Congress of March 2, 1887,
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1898, in accordance with the act making appropriations
for the Department of Agriculture for the said fiscal year.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 5, 1899.

To the Senate:

In response to the resolution of the Senate of December 21, 1898, requesting the President,
"If it be not inconsistent with the public service, to inform the Senate whether authentic
information is in possession of the Government as to the alleged dissolution of the Government
of the United States of Central America." I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of
State with accompanying papers.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 6, 1899.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 6, 1899. In view of the improved condition and increasing
usefulness of the Bureau, to which I have already called attention in my annual message, and
the welcome assurances of greater activity on the part of the other American republics in support
of its purposes, I cordially indorse the recommendations of the Secretary of State. It will
doubtless be as gratifying to Congress as it is to me to be informed that the Argentine Republic
has decided to renew its relations with the Bureau, and that there are grounds for hoping that
the International American Union, created by the impressive conference of the representatives
of our sister republics and those of the United States in Washington in 1889-90, will soon
be perfected by the adhesion of the Republic of Chile to the compact for the support of the
Bureau as the organ of the union. The interest of the United States in giving the fullest possible
effect to the laudable desire of the international conference to promote not only trade intercourse
but a closer fellowship among the various republics of this hemisphere is so evident that I
am satisfied the progress made by the bureau, as a practical agency for attaining these objects,
will receive the commendation and support of Congress.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 11, 1899.

To the Senate of the United States:

In response to the resolution of the Senate of June 6, 1898, I transmit a report from the Secretary
of State, inclosing copies of all papers on file in the Department of State relating to the
case of Hugo O. Loewi, including those printed in Document No. 186, Senate, Fifty-fifth Congress,
second session.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 17, 1899.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

It will be remembered that in the month of October, 1897, reports were received here of the
probable loss of the whaling fleet in the Arctic regions, and of the likelihood that nearly
300 men, composing the officers and crews of the fleet, would perish from hunger unless succor
could reach them early in the spring.

The revenue cutter Bear was known to be en route from the Arctic Ocean to Puget Sound, Washington.
Her arrival was anxiously awaited, as no other suitable Government vessel could be made available
for Arctic work. That ship arrived at Seattle, Wash., on the 6th of November, after a six-months'
cruise in the Arctic, and I at once ordered an expedition prepared for the relief of the imperiled
whalemen.

The preparation of the Bear was commenced on the 11th of November, under the direction of the
Secretary of the Treasury. Her officers and men of the Revenue-Cutter Service all volunteered
for the perilous work, and the ship was completely fitted out, and, under the command of Capt.
Francis Tuttle, of the Revenue-Cutter Service, sailed on her errand of mercy November 29, 1897,
within nineteen days from the inception of the movement.

The plan of the expedition was briefly as follows:

The ship was to be fully provided with rations for the ice-imperiled whalemen, which were to
be conveyed to them as soon as the ice conditions in Bering Strait would permit the passage
through. An overland expedition was to be landed from the Bear as soon as practicable, at some
point on the coast of Alaska, in Bering Sea, to be determined upon by Captain Tuttle. The problem
of getting food to the imperiled people at the earliest time possible was the all-important
consideration, for it was fully understood that the Bear could not, under the most favorable
conditions of ice navigation in that region, reach their neighborhood before the following
July or August. The utter lack of transportation of any kind in this far-off land suggested
the idea, which was adopted as the only possible plan, of driving reindeer overland, to be
slaughtered on arrival, for food to last until the arrival of the Bear with supplies the following
summer. The reindeer were to be collected by the overland expedition from several points in
Alaska, notably Cape Prince of Wales and Point Rodney, and, with such aid as could be procured
from natives and others, driven to Point Barrow.

The overland expedition was formed, and consisted of First Lieut. David H. Jarvis, Revenue-Cutter
Service, commanding; Second Lieut. Ellsworth P. Bertholf, Revenue-Cutter Service, and Dr. Samuel
J. Call, surgeon of the Bear, all volunteers. This overland expedition was landed from the
Bear at Cape Vancouver, in Bering Sea, Alaska, on the 16th of December, 1897, and commenced
its toilsome and dreary journey through an arctic night to Point Barrow, Captain Tuttle returning
with his command to winter at Dutch Harbor, Alaska, and from there to take advantage of the
first opportunity in the early summer of 1898 to get north.

The overland expedition worked its way to the reindeer stations named, and succeeded in getting
together about 450 deer. They were materially aided by Mr. W.T. Lopp, agent of the American
Missionary Society at Cape Prince of Wales, and Artisarlook, a native of that region, both
of whom, at great personal sacrifice, left their families and accompanied the reindeer herd
to Point Barrow.

The overland expedition, after a difficult and hazardous journey of nearly 2,000 miles through
the storms and bitter cold of an arctic winter, reached Point Barrow with the herd on the 29th
of March, 1898, three months and twelve days from their landing from the Bear at Cape Vancouver,
Alaskan coast of Bering Sea. They arrived none too soon. From the lack of an authoritative
head, supplemented by bad sanitary conditions and want of proper food, the men from the whale
ships quartered there were found upon the verge of great suffering, while sickness had broken
out among them. Lieutenant Jarvis, under the instructions given him by the Secretary of the
Treasury, at once assumed charge, in the name of the Government, of the camp and locality of
Point Barrow, and he and Dr. Call devoted themselves with intelligent energy to correcting
the wretched conditions found to exist. Order was at once inaugurated. Fresh meat from the
reindeer herd was supplied, the sanitary conditions were improved, and the general health and
comfort of the whalemen received immediate attention. Lieutenant Jarvis and Dr. Call remained
at Point Barrow in charge until the arrival of the Bear, July 28, 1898, a period of four months.
As soon as the Bear arrived Captain Tuttle began the distribution of ample supplies to the
whalemen on shipboard and on shore. Having supplied all demands generously, succored the needy
to the number of 275 between Point Barrow and Kotzebue Sound, taking on board the Bear 146
whalemen, 91 of whom were brought to the Pacific coast (the remainder having of their own volition
left the ship en route), the vessel arrived back at Seattle on the 13th of September, after
an absence in the bleak and dreary regions of Bering Sea and the Arctic Ocean of about seventeen
months.

The hardships and perils encountered by the members of the overland expedition in their great
journey through an almost uninhabited region, a barren waste of ice and snow, facing death
itself every day for nearly four months, over a route never before traveled by white men, with
no refuge but at the end of the journey, carrying relief and cheer to 275 distressed citizens
of our country, all make another glorious page in the history of American seamen. They reflect
by their heroic and gallant struggles the highest credit upon themselves and the Government
which they faithfully served. I commend this heroic crew to the grateful consideration of Congress
and the American people.

The year just closed has been fruitful of noble achievements in the field of war; and while
I have commended to your consideration the names of heroes who have shed luster upon the American
name in valorous contests and battles by land and sea, it is no less my pleasure to invite
your attention to a victory of peace the results of which cannot well be magnified, and the
dauntless courage of the men engaged stamps them as true heroes, whose services cannot pass
unrecognized.

I have therefore the honor to submit the following recommendations and to ask your favorable
action thereon:

1. That the thanks of Congress be voted to Capt. Francis Tuttle, Revenue-Cutter Service, and
the officers and enlisted men composing his command for their able and gallant services.

2. That the thanks of Congress be extended to the members of the overland expedition; First
Lieut. David H. Jarvis, Revenue-Cutter Service, commanding the overland expedition; to Second
Lieut. Ellsworth P. Bertholf, Revenue-Cutter Service, and to Dr. Samuel J. Call, Surgeon.

3. That gold medals of honor of appropriate design, to be approved by the Secretary of the
Treasury, be awarded to Lieutenants Jarvis and Bertholf and Dr. Call, commemorative of their
heroic struggles in aid of suffering fellow-men.

4. That the sum of $2,500 be appropriated to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Treasury
in bestowing rewards upon W.T. Lopp, Artisarlook, and native herders, who rendered material
aid to the relief expedition.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 19, 1899.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith a second report on the investigations of the agricultural capabilities
of Alaska for the year 1898, in accordance with the acts of Congress making appropriations
for the Department of Agriculture for the fiscal years ending June 30, 1898, and June 30, 1899.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 19, 1899.

My objections to the bill are:

First. It assumes that the beneficiary, Albert E. Redstone, sustained a loss by the incorporation
of his preemption claim within the limits of the Sierra Forest Reserve.

Second. Mr. Redstone's preemption declaratory statement was filed April 6, 1889, and alleged
settlement upon the same day. The land covered thereby had not been proclaimed for sale, and
under sections 2265 and 2267 of the Revised Statutes, Mr. Redstone had thirty-three months
from the date of his settlement within which to make proof and payment for the land, but in
fact he never attempted to make such proof or payment. His preemption claim had therefore expired
by operation of law long before the creation of this reserve. After his filing had thus expired
Mr. Redstone was cited by the Land Department to show cause why his claim should not be declared
at an end, and his filing formally canceled upon the public records, but he made no response
or defense, and the filing was accordingly canceled.

Third. The Commissioner of the General Land Office reports that an investigation, made under
the supervision of his office, shows that Mr. Redstone had actually abandoned the land covered
by his preemption claim before the reserve was established.

Fourth. The Commissioner of the General Land Office reports that an examination, made under
the supervision of his office, shows that the improvements placed upon this land during the
life of this preemption claim and thereafter abandoned were less than $200 in value, while
the amount appropriated in this bill is $1,800.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 27, 1899.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

In accordance with a provision in the act making appropriations for the Department of Agriculture
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1899, I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of
Agriculture "upon the forestry investigations and work of the Department of Agriculture."

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, February 9, 1899.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, February 11, 1899.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith the response of the Secretary of State to the resolution of the House of
Representatives of February 4, 1899, calling for information in his possession concerning certain
alleged outrages committed upon the person of Bishop Earl Cranston and other American citizens
in the city of Peking, China.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, February 18, 1899.

To the Senate:

I transmit herewith the response of the Secretary of Agriculture to the resolution of the Senate
of February 8, 1899, calling for information in his possession regarding the practical usefulness
of reservoirs to agriculture in the irrigated region of the United States, especially as affecting
the distribution of water to crops, the area and value of reclaimed land, and the stability
and unprofitableness of farming where irrigation is practised.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, February 21, 1899. In view of the value of these reports to
the manufacturing and exporting interests of the country, I indorse the recommendation of the
Secretary of State that Congress authorize the printing of the usual editions of 10,000 copies
of the general summary, entitled "Review of the World's Commerce" and of 5,000 copies of "Commercial
Relations" (including this summary), to enable the Department of State to meet the demand for
such information.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, March 1, 1899.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith, for the information of Congress, a communication from the Secretary of
Agriculture, covering a report on the progress of the beet-sugar industry in the United States
during the year 1898. It embraces the results of numerous chemical analyses and the observations
made by a special agent in various parts of the United States.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, March 3, 1899.

To the Senate:

In response to the resolution of the Senate of February 28 last directed to the Secretary of
State, I transmit a report from that officer submitting a list of claims against Spain, growing
out of the insurrection in Cuba, filed in the Department of State, not embraced in Senate Document
No. 79, Fifty-fourth Congress, second session.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

On June 30, 1898, there were thirty forest reservations (exclusive of the Afognak Forest and
Fish Culture Reserve in Alaska), embracing an estimated area of 40,719,474 acres. During the
past year two of the existing forest reserves, the Trabuco Canyon (California) and Black Hills
(South Dakota and Wyoming), have been considerably enlarged, the area of the Mount Rainier
Reserve, in the State of Washington, has been somewhat reduced, and six additional reserves
have been established, namely, the San Francisco Mountains (Arizona), the Black Mesa (Arizona),
Lake Tahoe (California), Gallatin (Montana), Gila River (New Mexico), and Fish Lake (Utah),
the total estimated area of which is 5,205,775 acres. This makes at the present time a total
of thirty-six forest reservations, embracing an estimated area of 46,021,899 acres. This estimated
area is the aggregated areas within the boundaries of the reserves. The lands actually reserved
are, however, only the vacant public lands therein, and these have been set aside and reserved
for sale or settlement in order that they may be of the greatest use to the people.

Protection of the national forests, inaugurated by the Department of the Interior in 1897,
has been continued during the past year and much has been accomplished in the way of preventing
forest fires and the protection of the timber. There are now large tracts covered by forests
which will eventually be reserved and set apart for forest uses. Until that can be done Congress
should increase the appropriations for the work of protecting the forests.

The Department of Agriculture is constantly consulting the needs of producers in all the States
and Territories. It is introducing seeds and plants of great value and promoting fuller diversification
of crops. Grains, grasses, fruits, legumes, and vegetables are imported for all parts of the
United States. Under this encouragement the sugar-beet factory multiplies in the North and
far West, semitropical plants are sent to the South, and congenial climates are sought for
the choice productions of the far East. The hybridizing of fruit trees and grains is conducted
in the search for varieties adapted to exacting conditions. The introduction of tea gardens
into the Southern States promises to provide employment for idle hands, as well as to supply
the home market with tea. The subject of irrigation where it is of vital importance to the
people is being carefully studied, steps are being taken to reclaim injured or abandoned lands,
and information for the people along these lines is being printed and distributed.

Markets are being sought and opened up for surplus farm and factory products in Europe and
in Asia. The outlook for the education of the young farmer through agricultural college and
experiment station, with opportunity given to specialize in the Department of Agriculture,
is very promising. The people of Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the Philippine Islands should be
helped, by the establishment of experiment stations, to a more scientific knowledge of the
production of coffee, india rubber, and other tropical products, for which there is demand
in the United States.

There is widespread interest in the improvement of our public highways at the present time,
and the Department of Agriculture is co-operating with the people in each locality in making
the best possible roads from local material and in experimenting with steel tracks. A more
intelligent system of managing the forests of the country is being put in operation and a careful
study of the whole forestry problem is being conducted throughout the United States. A very
extensive and complete exhibit of the agricultural and horticultural products of the United
States is being prepared for the Paris Exposition.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 10th of December, 1898, the treaty of peace between the United States and Spain was
signed. It provided, among other things, that Spain should cede to the United States the archipelago
known as the Philippine Islands, that the United States should pay to Spain the sum of twenty
millions of dollars, and that the civil rights and political status of the native inhabitants
of the territories thus ceded to the United States should be determined by the Congress. The
treaty was ratified by the Senate on the 6th of February, 1899, and by the Government of Spain
on the 19th of March following. The ratifications were exchanged on the 11th of April and the
treaty publicly proclaimed. On the 2d of March the Congress voted the sum contemplated by the
treaty, and the amount was paid over to the Spanish Government on the 1st of May.

In this manner the Philippines came to the United States. The islands were ceded by the Government
of Spain, which had been in undisputed possession of them for centuries. They were accepted
not merely by our authorized commissioners in Paris, under the direction of the Executive,
but by the constitutional and well-considered action of the representatives of the people of
the United States in both Houses of Congress. I had every reason to believe, and I still believe
that this transfer of sovereignty was in accordance with the wishes and the aspirations of
the great mass of the Filipino people.

From the earliest moment no opportunity was lost of assuring the people of the islands of our
ardent desire for their welfare and of the intention of this Government to do everything possible
to advance their interests. In my order of the 19th of May, 1898, the commander of the military
expedition dispatched to the Philippines was instructed to declare that we came not to make
war upon the people of that country, "nor upon any party or faction among them, but to protect
them in their homes, in their employments, and in their personal and religious rights." That
there should be no doubt as to the paramount authority there, on the 17th of August it was
directed that "there must be no joint occupation with the insurgents"; that the United States
must preserve the peace and protect persons and property within the territory occupied by their
military and naval forces; that the insurgents and all others must recognize the military occupation
and authority of the United States. As early as December 4, before the cession, and in anticipation
of that event, the commander in Manila was urged to restore peace and tranquillity and to undertake
the establishment of a beneficent government, which should afford the fullest security for
life and property.

On the 21st of December, after the treaty was signed, the commander of the forces of occupation
was instructed "to announce and proclaim in the most public manner that we come, not as invaders
and conquerors, but as friends to protect the natives in their homes, in their employments,
and in their personal and religious rights." On the same day, while ordering General Otis to
see that the peace should be preserved in Iloilo, he was admonished that: "It is most important
that there should be no conflict with the insurgents." On the 1st day of January, 1899, urgent
orders were reiterated that the kindly intentions of this Government should be in every possible
way communicated to the insurgents.

On the 21st of January I announced my intention of dispatching to Manila a commission composed
of three gentlemen of the highest character and distinction, thoroughly acquainted with the
Orient, who, in association with Admiral Dewey and Major-General Otis, were instructed "to
facilitate the most humane and effective extension of authority throughout the islands, and
to secure with the least possible delay the benefits of a wise and generous protection of life
and property to the inhabitants." These gentlemen were Dr. Jacob Gould Schurman, president
of Cornell University; the Hon. Charles Denby, for many years minister to China, and Prof.
Dean C. Worcester, of the University of Michigan, who had made a most careful study of life
in the Philippines. While the treaty of peace was under consideration in the Senate, these
Commissioners set out on their mission of good will and liberation. Their character was a sufficient
guaranty of the beneficent purpose with which they went, even if they had not borne the positive
instructions of this Government, which made their errand pre-eminently one of peace and friendship.

But before their arrival at Manila the sinister ambition of a few leaders of the Filipinos
had created a situation full of embarrassment for us and most grievous in its consequences
to themselves. The clear and impartial preliminary report of the Commissioners, which I transmit
herewith, gives so lucid and comprehensive a history of the present insurrectionary movement
that the story need not be here repeated. It is enough to say that the claim of the rebel leader
that he was promised independence by an officer of the United States in return for his assistance
has no foundation in fact and is categorically denied by the very witnesses who were called
to prove it. The most the insurgent leader hoped for when he came back to Manila was the liberation
of the islands from the Spanish control, which they had been laboring for years without success
to throw off.

The prompt accomplishment of this work by the American Army and Navy gave him other ideas and
ambitions, and insidious suggestions from various quarters perverted the purposes and intentions
with which he had taken up arms. No sooner had our army captured Manila than the Filipino forces
began to assume an attitude of suspicion and hostility which the utmost efforts of our officers
and troops were unable to disarm or modify. Their kindness and forbearance were taken as a
proof of cowardice. The aggressions of the Filipinos continually increased until finally, just
before the time set by the Senate of the United States for a vote upon the treaty, an attack,
evidently prepared in advance, was made all along the American lines, which resulted in a terribly
destructive and sanguinary repulse of the insurgents.

Ten days later an order of the insurgent government was issued to its adherents who had remained
in Manila, of which General Otis justly observes that "for barbarous intent it is unequaled
in modern times." It directs that at 8 o'clock on the night of the 15th of February the "territorial
militia" shall come together in the streets of San Pedro armed with their bolos, with guns
and ammunition where convenient; that Filipino families only shall be respected; but that all
other individuals, of whatever race they may be, shall be exterminated without any compassion,
after the extermination of the army of occupation, and adds: "Brothers, we must avenge ourselves
on the Americans and exterminate them, that we may take our revenge for the infamies and treacheries
which they have committed upon us. Have no compassion upon them; attack with vigor." A copy
of this fell by good fortune into the hands of our officers and they were able to take measures
to control the rising, which was actually attempted on the night of February 22, a week later
than was originally contemplated. Considerable numbers of armed insurgents entered the city
by waterways and swamps and in concert with confederates inside attempted to destroy Manila
by fire. They were kept in check during the night and the next day driven out of the city with
heavy loss.

This was the unhappy condition of affairs which confronted our Commissioners on their arrival
in Manila. They had come with the hope and intention of co-operating with Admiral Dewey and
Major-General Otis in establishing peace and order in the archipelago and the largest measure
of self-government compatible with the true welfare of the people. What they actually found
can best be set forth in their own words:

  Deplorable as war is, the one in which we are now engaged was
  unavoidable by us. We were attacked by a bold, adventurous, and
  enthusiastic army. No alternative was left to us except ignominious
  retreat.

  It is not to be conceived of that any American would have sanctioned
  the surrender of Manila to the insurgents. Our obligations to other
  nations and to the friendly Filipinos and to ourselves and our flag
  demanded that force should be met by force. Whatever the future of
  the Philippines may be, there is no course open to us now except the
  prosecution of the war until the insurgents are reduced to submission.
  The Commission is of the opinion that there has been no time since
  the destruction of the Spanish squadron by Admiral Dewey when it was
  possible to withdraw our forces from the island either with honor to
  ourselves or with safety to the inhabitants.

The course thus clearly indicated has been unflinchingly pursued. The rebellion must be put
down. Civil government cannot be thoroughly established until order is restored. With a devotion
and gallantry worthy of its most brilliant history, the Army, ably and loyally assisted by
the Navy, has carried on this unwelcome but most righteous campaign with richly deserved success.
The noble self-sacrifice with which our soldiers and sailors whose terms of service had expired
refused to avail themselves of their right to return home as long as they were needed at the
front forms one of the brightest pages in our annals. Although their operations have been somewhat
interrupted and checked by a rainy season of unusual violence and duration, they have gained
ground steadily in every direction, and now look forward confidently to a speedy completion
of their task.

The unfavorable circumstances connected with an active campaign have not been permitted to
interfere with the equally important work of reconstruction. Again I invite your attention
to the report of the Commissioners for the interesting and encouraging details of the work
already accomplished in the establishment of peace and order and the inauguration of self-governing
municipal life in many portions of the archipelago. A notable beginning has been made in the
establishment of a government in the island of Negros which is deserving of special consideration.
This was the first island to accept American sovereignty. Its people unreservedly proclaimed
allegiance to the United States and adopted a constitution looking to the establishment of
a popular government. It was impossible to guarantee to the people of Negros that the constitution
so adopted should be the ultimate form of government. Such a question, under the treaty with
Spain and in accordance with our own Constitution and laws, came exclusively within the jurisdiction
of the Congress. The government actually set up by the inhabitants of Negros eventually proved
unsatisfactory to the natives themselves. A new system was put into force by order of the Major-General
Commanding the Department, of which the following are the most important elements:

It was ordered that the government of the island of Negros should consist of a military governor
appointed by the United States military governor of the Philippines, and a civil governor and
an advisory council elected by the people. The military governor was authorized to appoint
secretaries of the treasury, interior, agriculture, public instruction, an attorney-general,
and an auditor. The seat of government was fixed at Bacolod. The military governor exercises
the supreme executive power. He is to see that the laws are executed, appoint to office, and
fill all vacancies in office not otherwise provided for, and may, with the approval of the
military governor of the Philippines, remove any officer from office. The civil governor advises
the military governor on all public civil questions and presides over the advisory council.
He, in general, performs the duties which are performed by secretaries of state in our own
system of government.

The advisory council consists of eight members elected by the people within territorial limits
which are defined in the order of the commanding general.

The times and places of holding elections are to be fixed by the military governor of the island
of Negros. The qualifications of voters are as follows:

(1) A voter must be a male citizen of the island of Negros. (2) Of the age of 21 years. (3)
He shall be able to speak, read, and write the English, Spanish, or Visayan language, or he
must own real property worth $500, or pay a rental on real property of the value of $1,000.
(4) He must have resided in the island not less than one year preceding, and in the district
in which he offers to register as a voter not less than three months immediately preceding
the time he offers to register. (5) He must register at a time fixed by law before voting.
(6) Prior to such registration he shall have paid all taxes due by him to the Government. Provided,
that no insane person shall be allowed to register or vote.

The military governor has the right to veto all bills or resolutions adopted by the advisory
council, and his veto is final if not disapproved by the military governor of the Philippines.

The advisory council discharges all the ordinary duties of a legislature. The usual duties
pertaining to said offices are to be performed by the secretaries of the treasury, interior,
agriculture, public instruction, the attorney-general, and the auditor.

The judicial power is vested in three judges, who are to be appointed by the military governor
of the island. Inferior courts are to be established.

Free public schools are to be established throughout the populous districts of the island,
in which the English language shall be taught, and this subject will receive the careful consideration
of the advisory council.

The burden of government must be distributed equally and equitably among the people. The military
authorities will collect and receive the customs revenue, and will control postal matters and
Philippine inter-island trade and commerce.

The military governor, subject to the approval of the military governor of the Philippines,
determines all questions not specifically provided for and which do not come under the jurisdiction
of the advisory council.

The authorities of the Sulu Islands have accepted the succession of the United States to the
rights of Spain, and our flag floats over that territory. On the 10th of August, 1899, Brig.-Gen.
J.C. Bates, United States Volunteers, negotiated an agreement with the Sultan and his principal
chiefs, which I transmit herewith. By Article I the sovereignty of the United States over the
whole archipelago of Jolo and its dependencies is declared and acknowledged.

The United States flag will be used in the archipelago and its dependencies, on land and sea.
Piracy is to be suppressed, and the Sultan agrees to co-operate heartily with the United States
authorities to that end and to make every possible effort to arrest and bring to justice all
persons engaged in piracy. All trade in domestic products of the archipelago of Jolo when carried
on with any part of the Philippine Islands and under the American flag shall be free, unlimited,
and undutiable. The United States will give full protection to the Sultan in case any foreign
nation should attempt to impose upon him. The United States will not sell the island of Jolo
or any other island of the Jolo archipelago to any foreign nation without the consent of the
Sultan. Salaries for the Sultan and his associates in the administration of the islands have
been agreed upon to the amount of $760 monthly.

Article X provides that any slave in the archipelago of Jolo shall have the right to purchase
freedom by paying to the master the usual market value. The agreement by General Bates was
made subject to confirmation by the President and to future modifications by the consent of
the parties in interest. I have confirmed said agreement, subject to the action of the Congress,
and with the reservation, which I have directed shall be communicated to the Sultan of Jolo,
that this agreement is not to be deemed in any way to authorize or give the consent of the
United States to the existence of slavery in the Sulu archipelago. I communicate these facts
to the Congress for its information and action.

Everything indicates that with the speedy suppression of the Tagalo rebellion life in the archipelago
will soon resume its ordinary course under the protection of our sovereignty, and the people
of those favored islands will enjoy a prosperity and a freedom which they have never before
known. Already hundreds of schools are open and filled with children. Religious freedom is
sacredly assured and enjoyed. The courts are dispensing justice. Business is beginning to circulate
in its accustomed channels. Manila, whose inhabitants were fleeing to the country a few months
ago, is now a populous and thriving mart of commerce. The earnest and unremitting endeavors
of the Commission and the Admiral and Major-General Commanding the Department of the Pacific
to assure the people of the beneficent intentions of this Government have had their legitimate
effect in convincing the great mass of them that peace and safety and prosperity and stable
government can only be found in a loyal acceptance of the authority of the United States.

The future government of the Philippines rests with the Congress of the United States. Few
graver responsibilities have ever been confided to us. If we accept them in a spirit worthy
of our race and our traditions, a great opportunity comes with them. The islands lie under
the shelter of our flag. They are ours by every title of law and equity. They cannot be abandoned.
If we desert them we leave them at once to anarchy and finally to barbarism. We fling them,
a golden apple of discord, among the rival powers, no one of which could permit another to
seize them unquestioned. Their rich plains and valleys would be the scene of endless strife
and bloodshed. The advent of Dewey's fleet in Manila Bay instead of being, as we hope, the
dawn of a new day of freedom and progress, will have been the beginning of an era of misery
and violence worse than any which has darkened their unhappy past. The suggestion has been
made that we could renounce our authority over the islands and, giving them independence, could
retain a protectorate over them. This proposition will not be found, I am sure, worthy of your
serious attention. Such an arrangement would involve at the outset a cruel breach of faith.
It would place the peaceable and loyal majority, who ask nothing better than to accept our
authority, at the mercy of the minority of armed insurgents. It would make us responsible for
the acts of the insurgent leaders and give us no power to control them. It would charge us
with the task of protecting them against each other and defending them against any foreign
power with which they chose to quarrel. In short, it would take from the Congress of the United
States the power of declaring war and vest that tremendous prerogative in the Tagal leader
of the hour.

It does not seem desirable that I should recommend at this time a specific and final form of
government for these islands. When peace shall be restored it will be the duty of Congress
to construct a plan of government which shall establish and maintain freedom and order and
peace in the Philippines. The insurrection is still existing, and when it terminates further
information will be required as to the actual condition of affairs before inaugurating a permanent
scheme of civil government. The full report of the Commission, now in preparation, will contain
information and suggestions which will be of value to Congress, and which I will transmit as
soon as it is completed. I have believed that reconstruction should not begin by the establishment
of one central civil government for all the islands, with its seat at Manila, but rather that
the work should be commenced by building up from the bottom, first establishing municipal governments
and then provincial governments, a central government at last to follow.

If any orders of mine were required to insure the merciful conduct of military and naval operations,
they would not be lacking; but every step of the progress of our troops has been marked by
a humanity which has surprised even the misguided insurgents. The truest kindness to them will
be a swift and effective defeat of their present leader. The hour of victory will be the hour
of clemency and reconstruction.

No effort will be spared to build up the waste places desolated by war and by long years of
misgovernment. We shall not wait for the end of strife to begin the beneficent work. We shall
continue, as we have begun, to open the schools and the churches, to set the courts in operation,
to foster industry and trade and agriculture, and in every way in our power to make these people
whom Providence has brought within our jurisdiction feel that it is their liberty and not our
power, their welfare and not our gain, we are seeking to enhance. Our flag has never waved
over any community but in blessing. I believe the Filipinos will soon recognize the fact that
it has not lost its gift of benediction in its world-wide journey to their shores.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some embarrassment in administration has occurred by reason of the peculiar status which the
Hawaiian Islands at present occupy under the joint resolution of annexation approved July 7,
1898. While by that resolution the Republic of Hawaii as an independent nation was extinguished,
its separate sovereignty destroyed, and its property and possessions vested in the United States,
yet a complete establishment for its government under our system was not effected. While the
municipal laws of the islands not enacted for the fulfillment of treaties and not inconsistent
with the joint resolution or contrary to the Constitution of the United States or any of its
treaties remain in force, yet these laws relate only to the social and internal affairs of
the islands, and do not touch many subjects of importance which are of a broader national character.
For example, the Hawaiian Republic was divested of all title to the public lands in the islands,
and is not only unable to dispose of lands to settlers desiring to take up homestead sites,
but is without power to give complete title in cases where lands have been entered upon under
lease or other conditions which carry with them the right to the purchaser, lessee, or settler
to have a full title granted to him upon compliance with the conditions prescribed by law or
by his particular agreement of entry.

Questions of doubt and difficulty have also arisen with reference to the collection of tonnage
tax on vessels coming from Hawaiian ports; with reference to the status of Chinese in the islands,
their entrance and exit therefrom; as to patents and copyrights; as to the register of vessels
under the navigation laws; as to the necessity of holding elections in accordance with the
provisions of the Hawaiian statutes for the choice of various officers, and as to several other
matters of detail touching the interests both of the island and of the Federal Government.

By the resolution of annexation the President was directed to appoint five commissioners to
recommend to Congress such legislation concerning the islands as they should deem necessary
or proper. These commissioners were duly appointed and after a careful investigation and study
of the system of laws and government prevailing in the islands, and of the conditions existing
there, they prepared a bill to provide a government under the title of "The Territory of Hawaii."
The report of the Commission, with the bill which they prepared, was transmitted by me to Congress
on December 6, 1898, but the bill still awaits final action.

The people of these islands are entitled to the benefits and privileges of our Constitution,
but in the absence of any act of Congress providing for Federal courts in the islands, and
for a procedure by which appeals, writs of error, and other judicial proceedings necessary
for the enforcement of civil rights may be prosecuted, they are powerless to secure their enforcement
by the judgment of the courts of the United States. It is manifestly important, therefore,
that an act shall be passed as speedily as possible erecting these islands into a judicial
district, providing for the appointment of a judge and other proper officers and methods of
procedure in appellate proceedings, and that the government of this newly acquired territory
under the Federal Constitution shall be fully defined and provided for.

       *       *       *       *       *

A necessity for immediate legislative relief exists in the Territory of Alaska. Substantially
the only law providing a civil government for this Territory is the act of May 17, 1884. This
is meager in its provisions, and is fitted only for the administration of affairs in a country
sparsely inhabited by civilized people and unimportant in trade and production, as was Alaska
at the time this act was passed. The increase in population by immigration during the past
few years, consequent upon the discovery of gold, has produced such a condition as calls for
more ample facilities for local self-government and more numerous conveniences of civil and
judicial administration. Settlements have grown up in various places, constituting in point
of population and business cities of thousands of inhabitants, yet there is no provision of
law under which a municipality can be organized or maintained.

In some localities the inhabitants have met together and voluntarily formed a municipal organization
for the purposes of local government, adopting the form of a municipal constitution and charter,
under which said officials have been appointed; and ordinances creating and regulating a police
force, a fire department, a department of health, and making provision for the care of the
insane and indigent poor and sick and for public schools, have been passed. These proceedings
and the ordinances passed by such municipalities are without statutory authority and have no
sanction, except as they are maintained by the popular sentiment of the community. There is
an entire absence of authority to provide the ordinary instruments of local police control
and administration, the population consisting of the usual percentage of lawless adventurers
of the class that always flock to new fields of enterprise or discovery, and under circumstances
which require more than ordinary provision for the maintenance of peace, good order, and lawful
conduct.

The whole vast area of Alaska comprises but one judicial district, with one judge, one marshal,
and one district attorney, yet the civil and criminal business has more than doubled within
the past year, and is many times greater both in volume and importance than it was in 1884.
The duties of the judge require him to travel thousands of miles to discharge his judicial
duties at the various places designated for that purpose. The Territory should be divided into
at least two districts, and an additional judge, district attorney, marshal, and other appropriate
officers be provided.

There is practically no organized form of government in the Territory. There is no authority,
except in Congress, to pass any law, no matter how local or trivial, and the difficulty of
conveying to the Congress an adequate conception and understanding of the various needs of
the people in the different communities is easily understood. I see no reason why a more complete
form of Territorial organization should not be provided. Following the precedent established
in the year 1805, when a temporary government was provided for the recently acquired territory,
then known under the name of Louisiana, it seems to me that it would be advantageous to confer
greater executive power upon the governor and to establish, as was done in the case of the
Territory of Louisiana, a legislative council having power to adopt ordinances which shall
extend to all the rightful subjects of local legislation, such ordinances not to take effect
until reported to and approved by the Congress if in session, and if that body is not in session
then by the President. In this manner a system of laws providing for the incorporation and
government of towns and cities having a certain population, giving them the power to establish
and maintain a system of education to be locally supported, and ordinances providing for police,
sanitary, and other such purposes, could be speedily provided. I believe a provision of this
kind would be satisfactory to the people of the Territory. It is probable that the area is
too vast and the population too scattered and transitory to make it wise at the present time
to provide for an elective legislative body, but the conditions calling for local self-government
will undoubtedly very soon exist, and will be facilitated by the measures which I have recommended.

       *       *       *       *       *

I recommend that legislation to the same end be had with reference to the government of Puerto
Rico. The time is ripe for the adoption of a temporary form of government for this island;
and many suggestions made with reference to Alaska are applicable also to Puerto Rico.

The system of civil jurisprudence now adopted by the people of this island is described by
competent lawyers who are familiar with it, as thoroughly modern and scientific, so far as
it relates to matters of internal business, trade, production, and social and private right
in general. The cities of the island are governed under charters which probably require very
little or no change. So that with relation to matters of local concern and private right, it
is not probable that much, if any, legislation is desirable; but with reference to public administration
and the relations of the island to the Federal Government, there are many matters which are
of pressing urgency. The same necessity exists for legislation on the part of Congress to establish
Federal courts and Federal jurisdiction in the island as has been previously pointed out by
me with reference to Hawaii. Besides the administration of justice, there are the subjects
of the public lands; the control and improvement of rivers and harbors; the control of the
waters or streams not navigable, which, under the Spanish law, belonged to the Crown of Spain,
and have by the treaty of cession passed to the United States; the immigration of people from
foreign countries; the importation of contract labor; the imposition and collection of internal
revenue; the application of the navigation laws; the regulation of the current money; the establishment
of post-offices and post-roads; the regulation of tariff rates on merchandise imported from
the island into the United States; the establishment of ports of entry and delivery; the regulation
of patents and copyrights; these, with various other subjects which rest entirely within the
power of the Congress, call for careful consideration and immediate action.

It must be borne in mind that since the cession Puerto Rico has been denied the principal markets
she had long enjoyed and our tariffs have been continued against her products as when she was
under Spanish sovereignty. The markets of Spain are closed to her products except upon terms
to which the commerce of all nations is subjected. The island of Cuba, which used to buy her
cattle and tobacco without customs duties, now imposes the same duties upon these products
as from any other country entering her ports. She has therefore lost her free intercourse with
Spain and Cuba without any compensating benefits in this market. Her coffee was little known
and not in use by our people, and therefore there was no demand here for this, one of her chief
products. The markets of the United States should be opened up to her products. Our plain duty
is to abolish all customs tariffs between the United States and Puerto Rico and give her products
free access to our markets.

As a result of the hurricane which swept over Puerto Rico on the 8th of August, 1899, over
100,000 people were reduced to absolute destitution, without homes, and deprived of the necessaries
of life. To the appeal of the War Department the people of the United States made prompt and
generous response. In addition to the private charity of our people, the War Department has
expended for the relief of the distressed $392,342.63, which does not include the cost of transportation.

It is desirable that the government of the island under the law of belligerent right, now maintained
through the Executive Department, should be superseded by an administration entirely civil
in its nature. For present purposes I recommend that Congress pass a law for the organization
of a temporary government, which shall provide for the appointment by the President, subject
to confirmation by the Senate, of a governor and such other officers as the general administration
of the island may require, and that for legislative purposes upon subjects of a local nature
not partaking of a Federal character a legislative council, composed partly of Puerto Ricans
and partly of citizens of the United States, shall be nominated and appointed by the President,
subject to confirmation by the Senate, their acts to be subject to the approval of the Congress
or the President prior to going into effect. In the municipalities and other local subdivisions
I recommend that the principle of local self-government be applied at once, so as to enable
the intelligent citizens of the island to participate in their own government and to learn
by practical experience the duties and requirements of a self-contained and self-governing
people. I have not thought it wise to commit the entire government of the island to officers
selected by the people, because I doubt whether in habits, training, and experience they are
such as to fit them to exercise at once so large a degree of self-government; but it is my
judgment and expectation that they will soon arrive at an attainment of experience and wisdom
and self-control that will justify conferring upon them a much larger participation in the
choice of their insular officers.

The fundamental requirement for these people, as for all people, is education. The free schoolhouse
is the best preceptor for citizenship. In the introduction of modern educational methods care,
however, must be exercised that changes be not made too abruptly and that the history and racial
peculiarities of the inhabitants shall be given due weight. Systems of education in these new
possessions founded upon common-sense methods, adapted to existing conditions and looking to
the future moral and industrial advancement of the people, will commend to them in a peculiarly
effective manner the blessings of free government.

       *       *       *       *       *

The love of law and the sense of obedience and submission to the lawfully constituted judicial
tribunals are embedded in the hearts of our people, and any violation of these sentiments and
disregard of their obligations justly arouses public condemnation. The guaranties of life,
liberty, and of civil rights should be faithfully upheld; the right of trial by jury respected
and defended. The rule of the courts should assure the public of the prompt trial of those
charged with criminal offenses, and upon conviction the punishment should be commensurate with
the enormity of the crime.

Those who, in disregard of law and the public peace, unwilling to await the judgment of court
and jury, constitute themselves judges and executioners should not escape the severest penalties
for their crimes.

What I said in my inaugural address of March 4, 1897, I now repeat:

  The constituted authorities must be cheerfully and vigorously upheld.

In accordance with the act of Congress providing for an appropriate national celebration in
the year 1900 of the establishment of the seat of Government in the District of Columbia, I
have appointed a committee, consisting of the governors of all the States and Territories of
the United States, who have been invited to assemble in the city of Washington on the 21st
of December, 1899, which, with the committees of the Congress and the District of Columbia,
are charged with the proper conduct of this celebration.

       *       *       *       *       *

Congress at its last session appropriated five thousand dollars "to enable the Chief of Engineers
of the Army to continue the examination of the subject and to make or secure designs, calculations,
and estimates for a memorial bridge from the most convenient point of the Naval Observatory
grounds, or adjacent thereto, across the Potomac River to the most convenient point of the
Arlington estate property." In accordance with the provisions of this act, the Chief of Engineers
has selected four eminent bridge engineers to submit competitive designs for a bridge combining
the elements of strength and durability and such architectural embellishment and ornamentation
as will fitly apply to the dedication, "A memorial to American patriotism." The designs are
now being prepared, and as soon as completed will be submitted to the Congress by the Secretary
of War. The proposed bridge would be a convenience to all the people from every part of the
country who visit the national cemetery, an ornament to the Capital of the Nation, and forever
stand as a monument to American patriotism. I do not doubt that Congress will give to the enterprise
still further proof of its favor and approval.

       *       *       *       *       *

The executive order of May 6, 1896, extending the limits of the classified service, brought
within the operation of the civil-service law and rules nearly all of the executive civil service
not previously classified.

Some of the inclusions were found wholly illogical and unsuited to the work of the several
Departments. The application of the rules to many of the places so included was found to result
in friction and embarrassment. After long and very careful consideration, it became evident
to the heads of the Departments, responsible for their efficiency, that in order to remove
these difficulties and promote an efficient and harmonious administration certain amendments
were necessary. These amendments were promulgated by me in executive order dated May 29, 1899.

The principal purpose of the order was to except from competitive examination certain places
involving fiduciary responsibilities or duties of a strictly confidential, scientific, or executive
character which it was thought might better be filled either by noncompetitive examination,
or in the discretion of the appointing officer, than by open competition. These places were
comparatively few in number. The order provides for the filling of a much larger number of
places, mainly in the outside service of the War Department, by what is known as the registration
system, under regulations to be approved by the President, similar to those which have produced
such admirable results in the navy-yard service.

All of the amendments had for their main object a more efficient and satisfactory administration
of the system of appointments established by the civil-service law. The results attained show
that under their operation the public service has improved and that the civil-service system
is relieved of many objectionable features which heretofore subjected it to just criticism
and the administrative officers to the charge of unbusinesslike methods in the conduct of public
affairs. It is believed that the merit system has been greatly strengthened and its permanence
assured. It will be my constant aim in the administration of government in our new possessions
to make fitness, character, and merit essential to appointment to office, and to give to the
capable and deserving inhabitants preference in appointments.

The 14th of December will be the One Hundredth Anniversary of the death of Washington. For
a hundred years the Republic has had the priceless advantage of the lofty standard of character
and conduct which he bequeathed to the American people. It is an inheritance which time, instead
of wasting, continually increases and enriches. We may justly hope that in the years to come
the benignant influence of the Father of his Country may be even more potent for good than
in the century which is drawing to a close. I have been glad to learn that in many parts of
the country the people will fittingly observe this historic anniversary.

Presented to this Congress are great opportunities. With them come great responsibilities.
The power confided to us increases the weight of our obligations to the people, and we must
be profoundly sensible of them as we contemplate the new and grave problems which confront
us. Aiming only at the public good, we cannot err. A right interpretation of the people's will
and of duty cannot fail to insure wise measures for the welfare of the islands which have come
under the authority of the United States, and inure to the common interest and lasting honor
of our country. Never has this Nation had more abundant cause than during the past year for
thankfulness to God for manifold blessings and mercies, for which we make reverent acknowledgment.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, December 11, 1899.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 4, 1900.

To the Senate of the United States:

In compliance with a resolution of the Senate of December 20, 1899, I transmit herewith a copy
of the report of the commission appointed by the President to investigate the conduct of the
War Department in the war with Spain, together with a copy of all the testimony taken by said
commission.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, February 1, 1900.

To the Senate of the United States:

In compliance with the resolution of the Senate of January 24, 1900, I transmit herewith a
copy of the report and all accompanying papers of Brig-Gen. John C. Bates, in relation to the
negotiations of a treaty or agreement made by him with the Sultan of Sulu on the 20th day of
August, 1899.

I reply to the request and said resolution for further information that the payments of money
provided for by the agreement will be made from the revenues of the Philippine Islands, unless
Congress shall otherwise direct.

Such payments are not for specific services but are a part consideration due to the Sulu tribe
or nation under the agreement, and they have been stipulated for subject to the action of Congress
in conformity with the practice of this Government from the earliest times in its agreements
with the various Indian nations occupying and governing portions of the territory subject to
the sovereignty of the United States.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, February 2, 1900.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith, for the information of the Congress, a report of a commission appointed
by me on January 20, 1899, to investigate affairs in the Philippine Islands.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, February 21, 1900.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of State, in response to the resolution of
the House of Representatives of February 19, 1900, calling upon him to inform the House of
Representatives--

1. If "Charles E. Macrum, as consul of the American Government, informed the State Department
that his official mail had been opened and read by the British censor at Durban, and if so,
what steps, if any, have been taken in relation thereto; and

2. "What truth there is in the charge that a secret alliance exists between the Republic of
the United States and the Empire of Great Britain."

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, March 5, 1900.

To the Senate:

In response to the following resolution of the Senate of January 17, 1900, requesting the President--

  If in his judgment not incompatible with the public interest, to
  communicate to the Senate all communications which have been received by
  him or by any Department or officer, civil or military, from Aguinaldo
  or any other person undertaking to represent the people in arms against
  the United States in the Philippine Islands, or any alleged government
  or public authority of said people, and all replies to such
  communications;

  Also, the proclamation sent by him to be issued to the people of the
  Philippine Islands, as actually directed by him to be issued, and the
  same as actually proclaimed by General Otis, if in any respect it was
  altered or any part of it was omitted;

  Also, to inform the Senate whether any approval or disapproval was
  expressed by his authority, or that of the War Department, of such
  change, if any;

  Also, all constitutions, forms of government, or proclamations issued
  by Aguinaldo, or any congress or legislative assembly or body claiming
  to be such, or convention of the people of the Philippine Islands, or
  any part thereof, or claiming to represent them or any part thereof,
  of which information may have come to him or to any Department of the
  Government;

  Also, all instructions given by him to the commissioners of the
  Philippine Islands, or either of them;

  Also, any information which may have come to him, or any Department of
  the Government, since January 1, 1898, in regard to any plans of the
  people in arms against the United States for the pillage of Manila, for
  risings in the city, or for the destruction of foreign property and the
  massacre of foreign residents;

  Also, any information that may have come to him, or any Department
  of the Government, of the treatment of the other inhabitants of the
  Philippines by those in arms against the authority of the United States,
  and of the attitude and feeling of such other inhabitants or tribes
  toward the so-called government of Aguinaldo and his armed followers;

  Also, any information that may have come to him, or any Department of
  the Government, of the treatment of prisoners, either Spanish or
  American, by the people in arms against the authority of the United
  States;

  Also, any information that may have come to him, or any Department of
  the Government, as to any aid or encouragement received by Aguinaldo and
  his followers from persons in the United States; as to what pamphlets,
  speeches, or other documents emanating from the United States and
  adverse to its authority and to its policy were circulated in whole or
  in part among the Filipinos in arms against the United States, among the
  other inhabitants of the islands, or among the soldiers of the United
  States, and any information as to the effect, if any, of such pamphlets,
  speeches, and other documents, or of similar utterances in the United
  States upon the course of the rebellion against the United States;

  Also, any further or other information which would tend to throw light
  upon the conduct and events of the insurrection against the authority
  of the United States in the Philippine Islands, and of the military
  movements for its suppression since January 1, 1898.

  And that the President be further requested to communicate, without
  delay, so much of such information as is now in his possession or in
  that of any Department at Washington, without waiting to obtain so much
  of said information as may require considerable delay or communication
  with the Philippine Islands, and to communicate the remainder of the
  information as soon thereafter as it can be obtained,

I transmit herewith the following papers:

First. Copies of all communications which have been received by me, or by any Department or
officer, civil or military, from Aguinaldo, or any other person undertaking to represent the
people in arms against the United States in the Philippine Islands, or any alleged government
or public authority of said people, and copies of all replies to such communications, so far
as such communications and replies have been reported to me or to any Executive Department.
Said copies of documents are appended hereto marked "I."

Second. Copy of instructions relating to a proclamation sent to General Otis and of the proclamation
issued by General Otis pursuant thereto. Said copies of documents are appended hereto, marked
"II." No disapproval of the said proclamation was expressed by my authority or that of the
War Department. It was, in fact, approved by me, although no formal communication to that effect
was sent to General Otis.

Also, among the papers marked "II," a letter of instructions to Maj.-Gen. Wesley Merritt, commanding
the army in the Philippines, under date of May 28, 1898, and a proclamation issued by him to
the people of the Philippines dated August 14, 1898.

Third. Copies of English translations of all constitutions, forms of government, or proclamations
issued by Aguinaldo, or any congress or legislative assembly or body claiming to be such, or
convention of the people of the Philippine Islands, or any part thereof, or claiming to represent
them, or any part thereof, of which information has come to me or to any Department of the
Government. Said copies of documents are appended hereto marked "III."

Fourth. Copies of all written instructions given by me to the commissioners to the Philippine
Islands, or either of them. Said copies of documents are appended hereto marked "IV."

Fifth. Such information as has come to me, or any Department of the Government, since January
1, 1898, in regard to any plans of the people in arms against the United States for the pillage
of Manila, for risings in the city, or for the destruction of foreign property and the massacre
of foreign residents. Said copies of documents are appended hereto marked "V."

Sixth. The information which has come to me, or any Department of the Government, of the treatment
of the other inhabitants of the Philippines by those in arms against the authority of the United
States, and of the attitude and feeling of such other inhabitants or tribes toward the so-called
government of Aguinaldo and his armed followers, is contained in the preliminary statement
of the Philippine Commission, dated November 2, 1899, in the report of the Philippine Commission,
dated January 31, 1900, and transmitted by me to Congress February 2, 1900, together with the
preliminary statement, and the report of Maj.-Gen. E. S. Otis, United States Volunteers, commanding
the Department of the Pacific and Eighth Army Corps, dated August 31, 1899, and transmitted
to Congress with the report of the Secretary of War, dated November 29, 1899, with the accompanying
documents.

Seventh. The information which has come to me, or any Department of the Government, of the
treatment of prisoners, either Spanish or American, by the people in arms against the authority
of the United States, is contained in the same documents.

Eighth. The information that has come to me, or any Department of the Government, as to any
aid or encouragement received by Aguinaldo and his followers from persons in the United States,
as to what pamphlets, speeches, or other documents emanating from the United States, and adverse
to its authority and to its policy, were circulated, in whole or in part, among the Filipinos
in arms against the United States, among the other inhabitants of the islands, or among the
soldiers of the United States, and any information as to the effect, if any, of such pamphlets,
speeches, and other documents, or of similar utterances in the United States upon the course
of the rebellion against the United States is contained in the same documents, and the copies
of documents appended hereto marked "VI."

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, March 15, 1900.

To the Senate of the United States:

In response to the resolution of the Senate of March 12, 1900, calling for the correspondence
touching the request of the Government of the South African Republics for my intervention with
a view to the cessation of hostilities, I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of State
furnishing the requested papers.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, March 21, 1900.

To the Senate:

In response to the resolution of the Senate of January 23, 1900, requesting the President,
"if in his opinion it is not incompatible with the public interest, to furnish the Senate with
copies of the correspondence with the Republic of Colombia in relation to the Panama Canal
and to the treaty between this Government and New Granada concluded December 12, 1846, not
heretofore communicated," I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of State, with accompanying
papers.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, March 27, 1900.

To the House of Representatives:

In response to the resolution of the House of Representatives of March 24, 1900, reading as
follows:

  WHEREAS the commercial community of the United States is deeply
  interested in ascertaining the conditions which are to govern trade
  in such parts of the Chinese Empire as are claimed by various foreign
  powers to be within their "areas of interest"; and

  WHEREAS bills are now pending before both Houses of Congress for the
  dispatch of a mission to China to study its economic condition:
  Therefore, be it

  Resolved, That the President of the United States be requested
  to transmit to the House of Representatives, if not incompatible with
  the public service, such correspondence as may have passed between the
  Department of State and various foreign Governments concerning the
  maintenance of the "open door" policy in China,

I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of State, with accompanying papers.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, April 2, 1900.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith a copy of a letter from Mr. Ferdinand W. Peck, Commissioner-General of
the United States to the Paris Exposition of 1900, dated November 17, 1899, submitting a detailed
statement of the expenditures incurred under authority of law.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, April 17, 1900.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of State in response to the resolution of the
House of Representatives of March 23, 1900, calling for copies of any and all letters on file
in the Department of State from citizens of the United States resident in the South African
Republic from January 1, 1899, to the present time, making complaints of treatment by the South
African Republic.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, May 3, 1900.

To the House of Representatives:

I herewith return, without approval, House bill No. 4001, entitled "An act authorizing the
rights of settlers on the Navajo Indian Reservation, Territory of Arizona." My objections to
the bill are embodied in the following statement:

This tribe has a population of about 20,500 souls, of whom 1,000 dress in the manner of white
men, 250 can read, and 500 use enough English for ordinary conversation. Last year they cultivated
8,000 acres, and possessed approximately 1,000,000 sheep, 250,000 goats, 100,500 cattle, 1,200
swine, and very considerable herds of horses and ponies.

Prior to January last the reservation, which is in the extreme northeastern portion of the
Territory of Arizona, consisted of lands set apart for the use of these Indians under the treaty
of June 1, 1863 (15 Stat., 667), and subsequent executive orders. On account of the conditions
naturally prevailing in that section, the reservation, as then constituted, was altogether
inadequate for the purpose for which it was set apart. There was not a sufficient supply of
grass or water within its borders for the flocks and herds of the tribe, and in consequence
more than one-third of the Indians were habitually off the reservation with their flocks and
herds, and were in frequent contention and strife with whites over pasturage and water.

After most careful inquiry and inspection of the reservation as it then existed, and of adjacent
land by efficient officers in the Indian service, the Commission of Indian Affairs, with the
concurrence of the Secretary of the Interior, recommended that the limits of the reservation
be extended westward so as to embrace the lands lying between the Navajo and Moqui Indian reservations
on the east and the Colorado and Little Colorado Rivers and the Grand Canyon Forest Reserve
on the west. This recommendation was supported by a very numerously signed petition from the
white residents of that section, and also by a letter from the Governor of the Territory of
Arizona, in which it was said:

  I understand that a petition has been forwarded asking that the western
  limit be fixed at the Little Colorado River, as being better for all
  concerned and less liable to cause friction between the Indians and the
  whites. I earnestly hope that the prayer of the petitioners be granted,
  for the reason that the Little Colorado could be made a natural dividing
  line, distinct and well defined, and would extend the grazing territory
  of the Navajoes to a very considerable extent without seriously
  encroaching upon the interests of white settlers who have their property
  in that neighborhood.

  I think great care should be exercised in questions of this nature
  because of possible serious friction which may occur if the interests of
  all concerned are not carefully protected.

The investigation which preceded this recommendation, and upon which it was in part based,
showed that with the boundaries of the reservation thus extended the Indians would be able
to obtain within the limits of the reservation sufficient grass and water for their flocks
and herds, and the Government would therefore be justified in confining them to the reservation,
thus avoiding the prior contention and friction between them and the whites.

It appearing that but little aid had been extended to these Indians by the Government for many
years, that they had taken on habits of industry and husbandry, which entitled them to encouragement,
and that it was neither just nor possible to confine them to the limits of a reservation which
would not sustain their flocks and herds, an order was issued by me January 8 last, extending
the reservation boundaries as recommended. The Indians have accepted this as an evidence of
the good faith of the Government toward them, and it is now the belief of those charged with
the administration of Indian affairs that further contention and friction between the Indians
and whites will be avoided, if this arrangement is not disturbed.

The present bill proposes to open to miners and prospectors, and to the operation of the mining
laws, a substantial portion of this reservation, including a part of the lands covered by the
recent order. There has been no effort to obtain from the Indians a concession of this character,
nor has any reason been presented why, if these lands are to be taken from them--for that will
practically result from this bill, if it becomes a law, even though not so intended--it should
not be done in pursuance of negotiations had with the Indians as in other instances.

The Indians could not understand how lands given to them in January as necessary for their
use should be taken away without previous notice in May of the same year. While the Indians
are the wards of the Government, and must submit to that which is deemed for their best interests
by the sovereign guardian, they should, nevertheless, be dealt with in a manner calculated
to give them confidence in the Government and to assist them in passing through the inevitable
transition to a state of civilization and full citizenship. Believing that due consideration
has not been given to the status and interests of the Indians, I withhold my approval from
the bill.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, May 12, 1900.

To the Senate of the United States:

In reply to the resolution of the Senate, dated March 2, 1900, I send herewith copy of an order
to the provost marshal general of Manila, dated March 8, 1900, and the various endorsements
and reports thereon, whereby it appears that the traffic in wine, beer, and liquor in the city
of Manila is now controlled under a rigidly enforced high-license system; that the number of
places where the liquor is sold has greatly decreased; that all such places are required to
be closed at 8:30 in the evening on week days and to be kept closed on Sundays, and that the
orderly condition of the city compares favorably with cities of similar size in the United States.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, May 12, 1900.

To the Senate of the United States:

In response to a resolution of the Senate of April 11, 1900, reading as follows:

  Resolved, That the President be, and is hereby, requested, if not
  incompatible with public interest, to inform the Senate whether persons
  have been executed in Puerto Rico by the Spanish method of garrote since
  he has been governing that country as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and
  Navy of the United States; and if so, the President is requested to
  inform the Senate why this mode of execution was adopted.

I transmit herewith copies of reports from Brig.-Gen. George W. Davis, United States Volunteers,
military governor of Puerto Rico, which contain the information called for.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, May 19, 1900.

To the Senate:

In response to the following resolution of the Senate of April 28, 1900:

  Resolved, That the President be, and he is hereby requested, if
  not incompatible with the public interest, to inform the Senate whether
  General Torres, one of the officers of the Philippine army, came to
  General Otis with a flag of truce on February 5, 1899, the day after
  the fighting commenced between our forces and those of the Filipinos,
  and stated to General Otis that General Aguinaldo declared that
  fighting had been begun accidentally, and was not authorized by him,
  and that Aguinaldo wished to have it stopped, and that to bring about
  a conclusion of hostilities he proposed the establishment of a neutral
  zone between the two armies of a width that would be agreeable to
  General Otis, so that during the peace negotiations there might be no
  further danger of conflict between the two armies, and whether General
  Otis replied that fighting having once begun, must go on to the grim
  end. Was General Otis directed by the Secretary of War to make such an
  answer? Did General Otis telegraph the Secretary of War on February 9,
  1899, as follows: "Aguinaldo now applies for a cessation of hostilities
  and conference. Have declined to answer?" And did General Otis
  afterwards reply? Was he directed by the Secretary of War to reply, and
  what answer, if any, did he or the Secretary of War make to the
  application to cease fighting?

  The President is also requested to inform the Senate whether the flag of
  the Philippine Republic was ever saluted by Admiral Dewey or any of the
  vessels of his fleet at any time since May 1, 1898. "Did Admiral Dewey,
  at the request of Aguinaldo, or any officer under him, send the vessels
  Concord and Raleigh to Subig Bay to assist Aguinaldo's
  forces in the capture of the Spanish garrison at that place? Did said
  vessels assist in the capture of the Spanish garrison, and after the
  capture did they turn the prisoners thus taken over to the Philippine
  forces?"

I herewith transmit a copy of a cable dispatch to General Otis, dated April 30, 1900, and of
his reply, dated May 1, 1900.

General Otis was not directed by the Secretary of War to make such an answer as is set forth
in the resolution, nor were any answers to communications upon the subject of the cessation
of hostilities prescribed by the Secretary of War to General Otis, but he was left to exercise
in respect thereof his own judgment, based upon his superior knowledge of the conditions surrounding
the troops under his command.

I also transmit a copy of a cable dispatch from General Otis, sent from Manila February 8,
1899, received in Washington February 9, 1899, being the same dispatch to which he refers in
his reply of May 1, 1900 as misleading. So far as I am informed, General Otis did not afterwards
reply, except as set forth in his dispatch of May 1, 1900. He was not directed by the Secretary
of War to reply, and no answer was made by him or the Secretary of War to an application to
cease fighting. There appears to have been no such application.

I further transmit a copy of a letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Admiral George Dewey,
dated May 14, 1900, and a copy of the Admiral's reply, dated May 17, 1900.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, May 22, 1900.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, May 22, 1900.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith, for the information of Congress, a communication from the Secretary of
Agriculture, forwarding a report on the progress of the beet-sugar industry in the United States
during the year 1899. It embraces the observations made by a special agent on the various phases
of the beet-sugar industry of the Hawaiian Islands; also the results of analyses of sugar-beets
received by the Department of Agriculture from the different States and Territories, together
with much other information relating to the sugar industry.

Your attention is invited to the recommendation of the Secretary of Agriculture that 20,000
copies of the report be printed for the use of the Department, in addition to such number as
may be desired for the use of the Senate and House of Representatives.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, May 26, 1900.

To the Senate:

I transmit herewith, in answer to the resolution of the Senate of May 22, 1900, a report from
the Secretary of State showing that the consul of the United States at Pretoria was directed
on May 8, 1900, to forward copies of the constitutions of the South African Republic and the
Orange Free State by return mail. Translations thereof will be communicated to the Senate at
the earliest practicable date.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, June 2, 1900.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, June 6, 1900.

To the Senate of the United States:

In further response to the resolution of the Senate of January 17, 1900, requesting, among
other things, information tending to throw light upon the conduct and events of the insurrection
against the authority of the United States in the Philippine Islands, I transmit herewith a
correspondence between the Secretary of War and the officers of the Second Division of the
Eighth Army Corps.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, December 4, 1900.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith, for the information of Congress, copy of a letter from the Commissioner-General
of the United States to the Paris Exposition of 1900, of November 17, 1900, giving a detailed
statement of the expenditures of the commission for the year ended November 15, 1900.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, December 6, 1900.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, December 6, 1900.

Following the course pursued in the case of the lynching of three Italian subjects at Hahnville,
La., on August 8, 1896, and in that of the lynching of the Mexican citizen, Luis Moreno, at
Yreka, Cal., in August, 1895, I recommend the appropriation by Congress, out of humane consideration,
and without reference to the question of liability of the Government of the United States,
of the sum of $2,000, to be paid by the Secretary of State to the Government of Mexico, and
by that Government distributed to the heirs of the above-mentioned Florentino Suaste.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 3, 1901.

To the Senate of the United States:

In reply to a resolution of the Senate of December 19, 1900, directing the Secretary of War
"to transmit to the Senate the report of Abraham L. Lawshe, giving in detail the result of
his investigations, made under the direction of the War Department, into the receipts and expenditures
of Cuban funds," the Senate is informed that for the reasons stated in the accompanying communication
from the Secretary of War, dated December 28, 1900, it is not deemed compatible with the public
interest to transmit the report to the Senate at this time.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 16, 1901.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith for the information of the Congress a letter from the Secretary of Agriculture,
in which he presents a preliminary report of investigations upon the forests of the southern
Appalachian Mountain region. Upon the basis of the facts established by this investigation
the Secretary of Agriculture recommends the purchase of land for a national forest reserve
in western North Carolina, eastern Tennessee, and adjacent States. I commend to the favorable
consideration of Congress the reasons upon which this recommendation rests.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 25, 1901.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

For the information of the Congress and with a view to such action on its part as it may deem
wise and appropriate I transmit a report of the Secretary of War, made to me under date of
January 24, 1901, containing the reports of the Taft commission, its several acts of legislation,
and other important information relating to the conditions and immediate wants of the Philippine
Islands.

I earnestly recommend legislation under which the government of the islands may have authority
to assist in their peaceful industrial development in the directions indicated by the Secretary
of War.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 29, 1901.

To the Congress:

I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of State relating to the treaty between the
United States and Spain, signed at Washington, November 7, 1900, providing for the cession
of any and all islands of the Philippine Archipelago lying outside of the lines described in
Article III of the treaty of peace of December 10, 1898.

I recommend the appropriation by Congress during the present session of the sum of one hundred
thousand dollars for the purpose of carrying out the obligations of the United States under
the treaty.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 29, 1901.

To the Congress:

I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of State relating to the lynching of two Italian
subjects at Tallulah, La., on July 20, 1899.

I renew the recommendation made in my annual message to the Congress on December 3, 1900, that
in accordance with precedent Congress make gracious provision for indemnity to the families
of the victims in the same form as heretofore.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 29, 1901. The advance in the general efficiency of our
consular service in promoting trade, which was noted in my message of March 1, 1900, transmitting
the reports for 1899, was even more marked than last year. The promptitude with which the reports
of the consuls are printed and distributed, the generous recognition which is being increasingly
accorded by our business interests to the practical value of their efforts for enlarging trade,
and the continued testimony of competent foreign authorities to the general superiority of
their commercial work, have naturally had a stimulating effect upon its consular corps as a
whole, and experience in the discharge of their duties adds greatly to their efficiency. It
is gratifying to be able to state that the improvement in the service, following closely upon
the steady progress in expediting the publication of reports, has enabled the Department of
State this year to submit the annual reports a month in advance of the usual time, and to make
them as nearly as possible a contemporaneous picture of the trade of the world. In view of
the great importance of these reports to our producers, manufacturers, exporters, and business
interest generally, I cordially approve the recommendation of the Secretary of State that Congress
shall authorize the printing as heretofore of an edition of 10,000 copies of the summary, entitled
"Review of the World's Commerce," and of 5,000 copies of Commercial Relations (including this
summary), to be distributed by the Department of State.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, February 14, 1901.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

During our recent war with Spain the United States naval force on the North Atlantic Station
was charged with varied and important duties, chief among which were the maintenance of the
blockade of Cuba, aiding the army, and landing troops and in subsequent operations, and particularly
in the pursuit, blockade, and destruction of the Spanish Squadron under Admiral Cervera.

This naval campaign, embracing objects of wide scope and grave responsibilities, was conducted
with great ability on the part of the commander-in-chief, and of the officers and enlisted
men under his command. It culminated in the annihilation of the Spanish fleet in the battle
of July 3, 1898, one of the most memorable naval engagements in history.

The result of this battle was the freeing of our Atlantic coast from the possibilities to which
it had been exposed from Admiral Cervera's fleet, and the termination of the war upon the seas.

I recommend that, following our national precedents, especially that in the case of Admiral
Dewey and the Asiatic Squadron, the thanks of Congress be given to Rear-Admiral William T.
Sampson, United States Navy, and to the officers and men under his command for highly distinguished
conduct in conflict with the enemy, and in carrying on the blockade and naval campaign on the
Cuban coast, resulting in the destruction of the Spanish fleet at Santiago de Cuba July 3, 1898.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, February 21, 1901.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, February 26, 1901.

To the Congress:

I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, in connection with my message of January
29, 1901, relative to the lynching of certain Italian subjects at Tallulah, La., a report by
the Secretary of State touching a claim for $5,000 presented by the Italian ambassador at Washington
on behalf of Guiseppe Defina, on account of his being obliged to abandon his home and business.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, February 28, 1901.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith, in pursuance of the act of Congress approved July 1, 1898 (U.S. Stat.
L., vol. 30, pp. 645, 646), the report of Mr. Ferdinand W. Peck, commissioner-general of the
United States to the International Exposition held at Paris, France, during the year 1900.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, March 1, 1901.

To the House of Representatives:

I return herewith, without approval, House bill No. 3204, entitled "An act to refer certain
claims for Indian depredations to the Court of Claims."

General relief has been extended to citizens who have lost property by reason of Indian depredations
by the act of March 3, 1891, conferring jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims to hear and determine
such cases. That act provides for payment for damages growing out of depredations committed
by any Indian or Indians belonging to a band, tribe, or nation in amity with the United States,
excluding from consideration all claims which originated during the existence of actual hostilities
between the United States and the Indian tribe.

In making this discrimination the act of 1891 follows the general principle which has been
asserted in all general legislation which has ever been enacted for the payment of claims for
property destroyed by Indians. The first act which promised such indemnity, that of May 19,
1796, contained the same restriction, and it was reported in every subsequent general act of
Congress dealing with the subject. This policy, which has been clearly manifested from the
beginning, is in accord with the recognized principle that the nation is not liable for damage
to the private property of its citizens caused by the act of the public enemy. This statute
has been thoroughly considered by the Court of Claims and by the Supreme Court and its interpretation
fixed, and it has been declared to be in accord not only with the policy of Congress as expressed
through the legislation of the century, but with the general principles of international law.

I am informed that the records of the Court of Claims show that the claims of four of the five
beneficiaries named in the present bill have been presented to that court under the general
law and decided adversely, the court having held that a state of war existed between the United
States and the Sioux Indians in the year 1862 when the claims arose. The remaining claim, which
originated under the same circumstances and at the same time, would, of course, be subject
to the same defense if presented.

The bill provides that these claims shall be sent back to the Court of Claims for trial according
to the principles and rules which governed the commission appointed under the act of February
16, 1863. That act, which was a special act relating to losses occurring during the hostilities
of the previous year, did not, of course, impose the requirement of amity, the claims allowed
by the commission being paid out of the funds belonging to the hostile Indians sequestered
by the statute. The effect of this bill, if it became a law, would be to provide for the payment
out of the Treasury of the United States of these claims which were not presented for payment
out of the Indian funds and which have been rejected by the courts under the general law. There
are many hundreds of cases, aggregating a large amount claimed, which have been filed in the
Court of Claims, but which are excluded from its jurisdiction for the same reason which necessitated
the dismissal of the petitions filed by these claimants. There is no legal obligation on the
part of the United States, and no promise, express or implied, for the payment of such claims.

The measure of governmental liability is fulfilled by the passage of the act of March 3, 1891,
and the prompt payment of the judgments rendered thereunder. To single out for payment a few
claims of this large class to the exclusion of all others would, in my judgment, be unjust;
and such action would also with reason be cited as a precedent for extending governmental aid
in all similar cases.

For the reasons given I am constrained to withhold my approval from the bill.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, March 7, 1901.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of State in response to the resolution of the
House of Representatives of February 19, 1901, requesting him to furnish that body "all the
information in the possession of the State Department relating to the shipment of horses and
mules from New Orleans in large numbers for the use of the British army in the war in South
Africa."

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, March 2, 1901.

To the House of Representatives:

I return herewith, without approval, House bill No. 321, entitled "An act for the relief of
the legal representative of Samuel Tewksbury, deceased."

This bill provides for the payment to the legal representative of Samuel Tewksbury, late of
Scranton, Allegheny County, Pa., the sum of $5,697 in full compensation for the use and occupation
by the United States Government of the brick building and premises owned by him in the city
of Scranton, Pa., as a depot or barracks for United States troops by the Provost Marshal of
the United States from June, 1862, to June, 1865, inclusive.

The records of the War Department show that about April 26, 1865, Col. J.G. Johnson, Chief
Quartermaster, forwarded to the office of the Quartermaster-General a claim of Samuel Tewksbury
for use of a building at Scranton, Pa., from February 24, 1864, to February 3, 1865, Stated
at $1,133.33, and damage to said building at $1,400, total $2,533.33.

In forwarding these papers Colonel Johnson states as follows:

  In the spring of 1864 Mr. Samuel Tewksbury presented to me through his
  agents a claim against the United States Government for use of the
  premises mentioned in the enclosed account accompanying the papers.

  I learn from Mr. S.N. Bradford, Provost Marshal of the Twelfth District
  of Pennsylvania at Scranton, that lodgings were furnished to persons in
  military service at that place by Gardiner and Atkinson under a contract
  with the Provost Marshal, also that the contractors rented the building
  used for the above purpose from Mr. Tewksbury.

  Considering it a matter entirely between that gentleman and his tenants,
  Messrs. Gardiner and Atkinson, I at that time refused to take any action
  in the matter whatever.

The claim was again submitted to the office of the Quartermaster-General on September 30, 1865,
by Major W.B. Lane, and was returned on May 1, 1866, with the information that the United States
had already paid for lodging of the troops under the control of the Provost Marshal at Scranton,
Pa., during the time for which charge for rent is made.

The claimant was referred to the officer or person by whom the building was taken for compensation
for its use. No other record of this case is found in the War Department, although it will
be observed that the bill covers a period from June, 1862, to June, 1865, inclusive, while
the claim as originally presented to the War Department was for occupancy of the building at
Scranton, Pa., from February 24, 1864, to February 3, 1865.

It thus appears that when this claim was originally presented it was examined by the proper
representative of the Government, and was rejected; that no such use and occupation as the
United States Government had of claimant's building was under a contract between the Government
and the tenants of claimant, and that payment therefor was duly made by the Government. Now
after a lapse of some thirty-seven years the period of use and occupation covered by the claim
has increased threefold, and the compensation asked therefor has more than doubled. Under the
circumstances of this case I do not feel at liberty to approve the bill.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

PRESIDENT McKINLEY'S SECOND INAUGURAL ADDRESS.

My Fellow-Citizens:

When we assembled here on the 4th of March, 1897, there was great anxiety with regard to our
currency and credit. None exists now. Then our Treasury receipts were inadequate to meet the
current obligations of the Government. Now they are sufficient for all public needs, and we
have a surplus instead of a deficit. Then I felt constrained to convene the Congress in extraordinary
session to devise revenues to pay the ordinary expenses of the Government. Now I have the satisfaction
to announce that the Congress just closed has reduced taxation in the sum of $41,000,000. Then
there was deep solicitude because of the long depression in our manufacturing, mining, agricultural,
and mercantile industries and the consequent distress of our laboring population. Now every
avenue of production is crowded with activity, labor is well employed, and American products
find good markets at home and abroad.

Our diversified productions, however, are increasing in such unprecedented volume as to admonish
us of the necessity of still further enlarging our foreign markets by broader commercial relations.
For this purpose reciprocal trade arrangements with other nations should in liberal spirit
be carefully cultivated and promoted.

The national verdict of 1896 has for the most part been executed. Whatever remains unfulfilled
is a continuing obligation resting with undiminished force upon the Executive and the Congress.
But fortunate as our condition is, its permanence can only be assured by sound business methods
and strict economy in national administration and legislation. We should not permit our great
prosperity to lead us to reckless ventures in business or profligacy in public expenditures.
While the Congress determines the objects and the sum of appropriations, the officials of the
executive departments are responsible for honest and faithful disbursement, and it should be
their constant care to avoid waste and extravagance.

Honesty, capacity, and industry are nowhere more indispensable than in public employment. These
should be fundamental requisites to original appointment and the surest guaranties against removal.

Four years ago we stood on the brink of war without the people knowing it and without any preparation
or effort at preparation for the impending peril. I did all that in honor could be done to
avert the war, but without avail. It became inevitable; and the Congress at its first regular
session, without party division, provided money in anticipation of the crisis and in preparation
to meet it. It came. The result was signally favorable to American arms and in the highest
degree honorable to the Government. It imposed upon us obligations from which we cannot escape
and from which it would be dishonorable to seek escape. We are now at peace with the world,
and it is my fervent prayer that if differences arise between us and other powers they may
be settled by peaceful arbitration and that hereafter we may be spared the horrors of war.

Intrusted by the people for a second time with the office of President, I enter upon its administration
appreciating the great responsibilities which attach to this renewed honor and commission,
promising unreserved devotion on my part to their faithful discharge and reverently invoking
for my guidance the direction and favor of Almighty God. I should shrink from the duties this
day assumed if I did not feel that in their performance I should have the co-operation of the
wise and patriotic men of all parties. It encourages me for the great task which I now undertake
to believe that those who voluntarily committed to me the trust imposed upon the Chief Executive
of the Republic will give to me generous support in my duties to "preserve, protect, and defend,
the Constitution of the United States" and to "care that the laws be faithfully executed."
The national purpose is indicated through a national election. It is the constitutional method
of ascertaining the public will. When once it is registered it is a law to us all, and faithful
observance should follow its decrees.

Strong hearts and helpful hands are needed, and, fortunately, we have them in every part of
our beloved country. We are reunited. Sectionalism has disappeared. Division on public questions
can no longer be traced by the war maps of 1861. These old differences less and less disturb
the judgment. Existing problems demand the thought and quicken the conscience of the country,
and the responsibility for their presence, as well as for their righteous settlement, rests
upon us all--no more upon me than upon you. There are some national questions in the solution
of which patriotism should exclude partisanship. Magnifying their difficulties will not take
them off our hands nor facilitate their adjustment. Distrust of the capacity, integrity, and
high purposes of the American people will not be an inspiring theme for future political contests.
Dark pictures and gloomy forebodings are worse than useless. These only becloud, they do not
help to point the way of safety and honor. "Hope maketh not ashamed." The prophets of evil
were not the builders of the Republic, nor in its crises since have they saved or served it.
The faith of the fathers was a mighty force in its creation, and the faith of their descendants
has wrought its progress and furnished its defenders. They are obstructionists who despair,
and who would destroy confidence in the ability of our people to solve wisely and for civilization
the mighty problems resting upon them. The American people, intrenched in freedom at home,
take their love for it with them wherever they go, and they reject as mistaken and unworthy
the doctrine that we lose our own liberties by securing the enduring foundations of liberty
to others. Our institutions will not deteriorate by extension, and our sense of justice will
not abate under tropic suns in distant seas. As heretofore, so hereafter will the nation demonstrate
its fitness to administer any new estate which events devolve upon it, and in the fear of God
will "take occasion by the hand and make the bounds of freedom wider yet." If there are those
among us who would make our way more difficult, we must not be disheartened, but the more earnestly
dedicate ourselves to the task upon which we have rightly entered. The path of progress is
seldom smooth. New things are often found hard to do. Our fathers found them so. We find them
so. They are inconvenient. They cost us something. But are we not made better for the effort
and sacrifice, and are not those we serve lifted up and blessed?

We will be consoled, too, with the fact that opposition has confronted every onward movement
of the Republic from its opening hour until now, but without success. The Republic has marched
on and on, and its step has exalted freedom and humanity. We are undergoing the same ordeal
as did our predecessors nearly a century ago. We are following the course they blazed. They
triumphed. Will their successors falter and plead organic impotency in the nation? Surely after
125 years of achievement for mankind we will not now surrender our equality with other powers
on matters fundamental and essential to nationality. With no such purpose was the nation created.
In no such spirit has it developed its full and independent sovereignty. We adhere to the principle
of equality among ourselves, and by no act of ours will we assign to ourselves a subordinate
rank in the family of nations.

My fellow-citizens, the public events of the past four years have gone into history. They are
too near to justify recital. Some of them were unforeseen; many of them momentous and far-reaching
in their consequences to ourselves and our relations with the rest of the world. The part which
the United States bore so honorably in the thrilling scenes in China, while new to American
life, has been in harmony with its true spirit and best traditions, and in dealing with the
results its policy will be that of moderation and fairness.

We face at this moment a most important question--that of the future relations of the United
States and Cuba. With our near neighbors we must remain close friends. The declaration of the
purposes of this Government in the resolution of April 20, 1898, must be made good. Ever since
the evacuation of the island by the army of Spain the Executive, with all practicable speed,
has been assisting its people in the successive steps necessary to the establishment of a free
and independent government prepared to assume and perform the obligations of international
law which now rest upon the United States under the treaty of Paris. The convention elected
by the people to frame a constitution is approaching the completion of its labors. The transfer
of American control to the new government is of such great importance, involving an obligation
resulting from our intervention and the treaty of peace, that I am glad to be advised by the
recent act of Congress of the policy which the legislative branch of the Government deems essential
to the best interests of Cuba and the United States. The principles which led to our intervention
require that the fundamental law upon which the new government rests should be adapted to secure
a government capable of performing the duties and discharging the functions of a separate nation,
of observing its international obligations of protecting life and property, insuring order,
safety, and liberty, and conforming to the established and historical policy of the United
States in its relation to Cuba.

The peace which we are pledged to leave to the Cuban people must carry with it the guaranties
of permanence. We became sponsors for the pacification of the island, and we remain accountable
to the Cubans, no less than to our own country and people, for the reconstruction of Cuba as
a free commonwealth on abiding foundations of right, justice, liberty, and assured order.

While the treaty of peace with Spain was ratified on the 6th of February, 1899, and ratifications
were exchanged nearly two years ago, the Congress has indicated no form of government for the
Philippine Islands. It has, however, provided an army to enable the Executive to suppress insurrection,
restore peace, give security to the inhabitants, and establish the authority of the United
States throughout the archipelago. It has authorized the organization of native troops as auxiliary
to the regular force. It has been advised from time to time of the acts of the military and
naval officers in the islands, of my action in appointing civil commissions, of the instructions
with which they were charged, of their duties and powers, of their recommendations, and of
their several acts under executive commission, together with the very complete general information
they have submitted. These reports fully set forth the conditions, past and present, in the
islands, and the instructions clearly show the principles which will guide the Executive until
the Congress shall, as it is required to do by the treaty, determine "the civil rights and
political status of the native inhabitants." The Congress having added the sanction of its
authority to the powers already possessed and exercised by the Executive under the Constitution,
thereby leaving with the Executive the responsibility for the government of the Philippines,
I shall continue the efforts already begun until order shall be restored throughout the islands,
and as fast as conditions permit will establish local governments, in the formation of which
the full co-operation of the people has been already invited, and when established will encourage
the people to administer them. The settled purpose, long ago proclaimed, to afford the inhabitants
of the islands self-government as fast as they were ready for it will be pursued with earnestness
and fidelity. Already something has been accomplished in this direction. The Government's representatives,
civil and military, are doing faithful and noble work in their mission of emancipation and
merit the approval and support of their countrymen. The most liberal terms of amnesty have
already been communicated to the insurgents, and the way is still open for those who have raised
their arms against the Government for honorable submission to its authority. Our countrymen
should not be deceived. We are not waging war against the inhabitants of the Philippine Islands.
A portion of them are making war against the United States. By far the greater part of the
inhabitants recognize American sovereignty and welcome it as a guaranty of order and of security
for life, property, liberty, freedom of conscience, and the pursuit of happiness. To them full
protection will be given. They shall not be abandoned. We will not leave the destiny of the
loyal millions in the islands to the disloyal thousands who are in rebellion against the United
States. Order under civil institutions will come as soon as those who now break the peace shall
keep it. Force will not be needed or used when those who make war against us shall make it
no more. May it end without further bloodshed, and there be ushered in the reign of peace to
be made permanent by a government of liberty under law!

MARCH 4, 1901.

PROCLAMATIONS.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN SHERMAN,
    Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

THANKSGIVING PROCLAMATION.

In remembrance of God's goodness to us during the past year, which has been so abundant, "let
us offer unto Him our thanksgiving and pay our vows unto the Most High." Under His watchful
providence industry has prospered, the conditions of labor have been improved, the rewards
of the husbandman have been increased, and the comforts of our homes multiplied. His mighty
hand has preserved peace and protected the nation. Respect for law and order has been strengthened,
love of free institutions cherished, and all sections of our beloved country brought into closer
bonds of fraternal regard and generous cooperation.

For these great benefits it is our duty to praise the Lord in a spirit of humility and gratitude
and to offer up to Him our most earnest supplications. That we may acknowledge our obligation
as a people to Him who has so graciously granted us the blessings of free government and material
prosperity, I, William McKinley, President of the United States, do hereby designate and set
apart Thursday, the twenty-fifth day of November, for national thanksgiving and prayer, which
all of the people are invited to observe with appropriate religious services in their respective
places of worship. On this day of rejoicing and domestic reunion let our prayers ascend to
the Giver of every good and perfect gift for the continuance of His love and favor to us, that
our hearts may be filled with charity and good will, and we may be ever worthy of His beneficent
concern.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

And this proclamation shall remain in force and effect until otherwise ordered by the President
of the United States.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.
  Canned meats                                                    15

  Table fruits, fresh:
    Lemons, oranges, cedrats and their varieties not mentioned     5
    Mandarin oranges                                              10
    Common table grapes                                            8
    Apples and pears:
      For the table                                                2
      For cider and perry                                          1.50
    Other fruits except hothouse grapes and fruits                 3

  Fruits dried or pressed (excluding raisins):
    Apples and pears:
      For the table                                               10
      For cider and perry                                          4
    Prunes                                                        10
    Other fruits                                                   5

  Common woods, logs                                               0.65
    Sawed or squared timber 80 mm. or more in thickness            1
    Squared or sawed lumber exceeding 35 mm.
      and less than 80 mm. in thickness                            1.25
    Wood sawed 35 mm. or less in thickness                         1.75

  Paving blocks                                                    1.75
  Staves                                                           1.75
  Hops                                                            30
  Apples and pears crushed, or cut and dried                       1.50
  Manufactured and prepared Pork meats                            50
  Lard and its compounds                                          25

Therefore, in further execution of the provisions of said section it is hereby declared that
on and after the 1st day of June, 1898, and during the continuance in force of the Agreement
aforesaid, and until otherwise declared, the imposition and collection of the duties heretofore
imposed and collected upon the following named articles, the products of France, by virtue
of said act are hereby suspended, and in place thereof the duties shall be imposed and collected
thereon according to the provisions of said section 3 as follows:

On argols, or crude tartar, or wine lees, crude, five per centum ad valorem.

On brandies, or other spirits manufactured or distilled from grain or other materials, one
dollar and seventy-five cents per proof gallon.

On paintings in oil or water colors, pastels, pen and ink drawings, and statuary, fifteen per
centum ad valorem.

It is further declared that the rates of duty heretofore imposed and collected on still wines
and vermuth, the product of France, under the provisions of the United States Tariff Act of
1897 are conditionally suspended, and in place thereof shall be imposed and collected on and
after the 1st day of June next as follows, namely:

On still wines and vermuth, in casks, thirty-five cents per gallon; in bottles or jugs, per
case of one dozen bottles or jugs containing each not more than one quart and more than one
pint, or twenty-four bottles or jugs containing each not more than one pint, one dollar and
twenty-five cents per case, and any excess beyond these quantities found in such bottles or
jugs shall be subject to a duty of four cents per pint or fractional part thereof, but no separate
or additional duty shall be assessed upon the bottles or jugs.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  WILLIAM R. DAY,
    Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

WILLIAM McKINLEY. The water front lying between the Bishop Estate and the line of Richards
Street including the site of prospective wharves, slips, and their approaches.

2d. The blocks of land embracing lots No. 86 to 91, 100 to 131, including Mililani Street to
the intersection of Halekauwali Street; and the Government water lots lying between the Bishop
Estate and Punchbowl and Allen Streets.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

HAWAIIAN CABLE CONCESSION.

And whereas, in view of the provisions of said Joint Resolution for the determination by the
Congress of the United States of all matters of municipal legislation concerning the Hawaiian
Islands, and because the subject matter and provisions of said Indenture are deemed to be proper
subjects for the consideration and determination of the Congress of the United States, it is
deemed expedient and necessary that the Congress of the United States consider and adopt such
legislation, especially in regard to grants and contractual obligations to be controlled by
and rest upon the United States of America as vested with sovereignty over said Hawaiian Islands,
without let or hindrance by reason of any action of the Government of the Republic of Hawaii
in respect to such grants and contractual obligations initiated by the said Government of the
Republic of Hawaii prior to and incomplete at the time of the yielding up of the sovereignty
of the Hawaiian Islands to the United States;

Now, therefore, I, John Hay, Secretary of State of the United States, do hereby express on
the part of "the United States State Department" its disapproval of the contract stipulated
in the said Indenture to the end that the same shall not take effect.

[SEAL.]

Given under my hand and the seal of the Department of State of the United States, in the city
of Washington, D.C., this thirty-first day of December in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and ninety-eight.

JOHN HAY.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

A PROCLAMATION.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

A PROCLAMATION.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, it is deemed necessary in the public interests that certain lands lying to the eastward
of the city of San Juan, in Puerto Rico, be immediately reserved for naval purposes;

Now, therefore, I, William McKinley, President of the United States, by virtue of the authority
in me vested, do hereby, declare, proclaim, and make known that the following-described lands
be and the same are hereby reserved for naval purposes until such time as the Congress of the
United States shall otherwise direct, to wit:

1st. The public land, natural, reclaimed, partly reclaimed, or which may be reclaimed, lying
south of the Caguas Road, shown on the U.S. Hydrographic Map No. 1745 of July, 1898, and for
250 feet north of said Caguas Road, to be bounded on the west by a true north and south line
passing through the eastern corner of the railway station shown on said map, on the south by
the shore of the harbor, and to extend east 2,400 feet, more or less, to include 80 acres.

2nd. The entire island lying to the southward of the above-described land, and described on
the U.S. Hydrographic Map No. 1745, of July, 1898, as Isla Grande, or Manglar.

The Military Governor of the Island of Puerto Rico will make this transfer through the representative
of the Navy, the Commandant of the United States Naval Station, San Juan, Puerto Rico, who
will present this proclamation.

March 29, 1899.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the tract of land
reserved by this proclamation.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Lake Tahoe Forest Reserve.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, by the provisions of an act approved February 20, 1895, entitled "An act to disapprove
the treaty heretofore made with the Southern Ute Indians to be removed to the Territory of
Utah, and providing for settling them down in severalty where they may so elect and are qualified
and to settle all those not electing to take lands in severalty, on the west forty miles of
present reservation and in portions of New Mexico, and for other purposes, and to carry out
the provisions of the treaty with said Indians June fifteenth, eighteen hundred and eighty,"
the agreement made by the commissioners on the part of the United States with the Southern
Ute Indians of Colorado bearing date November thirteenth, eighteen hundred and eighty-eight,
was annulled and the treaty made with said Indians June fifteenth, eighteen hundred and eighty,
was directed to be carried out as therein provided and as further provided by general law for
settling Indians in severalty; and

Whereas it was further provided by said act that within six months after the passage thereof,
the Secretary of the Interior should cause allotment of land, in severalty, to be made to such
of the Southern Ute Indians in Colorado, as might elect and be considered by him qualified
to take the same out of the agricultural lands embraced in their present reservation in Colorado,
such allotments to be made in accordance with the provisions of the act of Congress approved
June fifteenth, eighteen hundred and eighty, entitled "An act to accept and ratify the agreement
submitted by the confederated bands of Ute Indians in Colorado for the sale of their reservation
in said State and for other purposes, and to make the necessary appropriations for carrying
out the same," and the amendments thereto, as far as applicable, and the treaties theretofore
made with said Indians; and

Whereas it was further provided that for the sole and exclusive use of such of said Indians
as might not elect or be deemed qualified to take allotments in severalty as provided, there
should be set apart and reserved all that portion of their reservation lying west of the range
line between ranges thirteen and fourteen west of the New Mexico Principal Meridian, and also
all of townships thirty-one and thirty-two of ranges fourteen, fifteen, and sixteen west of
the New Mexico Principal Meridian and lying in the Territory of New Mexico, subject to the
right of the Government to erect and maintain agency buildings thereon, and to grant rights
of way through the same for railroads, irrigation ditches, highways and other necessary purposes;
and

Whereas under the provisions of section four of said act it was made the duty of the President
of the United States to issue his proclamation declaring the lands within the reservation of
said Indians except such portions as might have been allotted or reserved under the provisions
of the preceding sections of said act, open to occupancy and settlement, said unallotted and
unreserved lands to be and become a part of the public domain of the United States and to become
subject to entry, under the desert, homestead, and townsite laws and the laws governing the
disposal of coal, mineral, stone and timber lands, but providing that no homestead settler
should receive a title to any portion of such lands at less than one dollar and twenty-five
cents per acre, and such settlers should be required to make a cash payment of fifty cents
per acre at the time filing is made upon any of said lands; and providing that before said
lands should be open to public settlement the Secretary of the Interior should cause the improvements
belonging to the Indians on the lands then occupied by them to be appraised and sold at public
sale to the highest bidder, except improvements on lands allotted to the Indians in accordance
with this act; and providing that no sale of such improvements should be made for less than
the appraised value and that the several purchasers of said improvements should, for thirty
days after the issuance of the President's proclamation have the preference right of entry
of the lands upon which the improvements purchased by them should be situated, but that the
said purchase should not exceed one hundred and sixty acres and that the proceeds of such improvements
should be paid to the Indians owning the same; and

Whereas it is further provided that the provisions of said act should take effect only upon
the acceptance thereof and consent thereto by a majority of all the male adult Indians then
located or residing upon the reservation, which acceptance should be at once obtained under
such regulations as the Secretary of the Interior might prescribe; and

Whereas allotments have been made as provided for in said act, and all the other terms and
considerations as required therein have been complied with, precedent to opening the unallotted
and unreserved lands in said reservation to settlement and entry, except the sale of improvements
on the NE 1/4 NW 1/4, S 1/2 NW 1/4 and NW 1/4 SW 1/4 Sec.

The survey of the east boundary of the above tract through townships 32, 33, and 34 N., R.
1 W., and of that part of the north boundary in Tps. 34 N., Rs. 1 and 2 W., being in process
of correction owing to errors found in said survey, notice is hereby given to all parties who
may elect to make entries of lands adjoining the boundary lines subject to correction, that
their entries will be at their own risk, and subject to such changes as to the boundaries of
the several tracts so entered as may be found necessary in the progress of the correction of
the erroneous survey, and that without recourse to the United States for any damage that may
arise as the result of the correction survey.

The lands allotted to the Indians are for greater convenience particularly described in the
accompanying schedule entitled "Schedule of lands within the Southern Ute Indian Reservation
allotted to the Indians and withheld from settlement and entry by proclamation of the President
dated April 13, 1899," and which schedule is made a part thereof.

An error having been made in 1873 in the survey and location of the eastern boundary of the
reservation hereby opened to settlement and entry whereby certain lands constituting a part
of the reservation were erroneously identified as being outside of the reservation, by reason
of which several persons in good faith settled upon said lands under the belief that the same
were unappropriated public lands open to settlement, and have since improved and cultivated,
and are now residing upon the same with a view to the entry thereof under the public land laws,
notice is hereby given that in so far as said persons possess the qualifications required by
law, and maintain their said settlement and residence up to the time of the opening herein
provided for, they will be considered and treated as having initiated and established a lawful
settlement at the very instant at which the lands become open, and as having the superior right
and claim to enter said lands, which right must be exercised within three months from the time
of said opening.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

SCHEDULE OF LANDS WITHIN THE SOUTHERN UTE INDIAN RESERVATION ALLOTTED TO THE INDIANS AND WITHHELD
FROM SETTLEMENT AND ENTRY BY PROCLAMATION OF THE PRESIDENT DATED APRIL 13, 1899.

In Township 32 North, Range 3 West.

In Township 33 North, Range 3 West.

In Township 34 North, Range 3 West.

In Township 32 North, Range 4 West.

In Township 33 North, Range 4 West.

In Township 34 North, Range 4 West.

In Township 32 North, Range 5 West.

In Township 33 North, Range 5 West.

In Township 34 North, Range 5 West.

In Township 32 North, Range 7 West.

In Township 33 North, Range 7 West.

In Township 34 North, Range 7 West.

In Township 34 North, Range 8 West.

East half, east half of northwest quarter and east half of southwest quarter of section 7;
west half and southeast quarter of section 8; west half of section 17; east half of section
18; east half and southwest quarter of section 19; west half of section 20; northwest quarter
and south half of section 25; south half of section 26; west half of section 29; east half,
east half of northwest quarter and east half of southwest quarter of section 30; all of section
31; west half of northwest quarter and west half of southwest quarter of section 32; north
half and southeast quarter of section 35; and all of section 36.

In Township 33 North, Range 9 West.

In Township 34 North, Range 9 West.

All of sections 12, 13, 24, 25 and 36.

In Township 33 North, Range 10 West.

All of section 1; west half of section 12; west half and southeast quarter of section 13; east
half of section 24; and east half of section 25.

In Township 34 North, Range 10 West.

South half of section 13, and all of sections 24, 25 and 36.

In Township 34 North, Range 11 West.

In Township 33 North, Range 12 West.

In Township 34 North, Range 12 West.

In Township 33 North, Range 13 West.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the tract of land
reserved by this proclamation.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Santa Ynez Forest Reserve.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

THANKSGIVING PROCLAMATION.

A national custom dear to the hearts of the people calls for the setting apart of one day in
each year as an occasion of special thanksgiving to Almighty God for the blessings of the preceding
year. This honored observance acquires with time a tenderer significance. It enriches domestic
life. It summons under the family roof the absent children to glad reunion with those they love.

Seldom has this nation had greater cause for profound thanksgiving. No great pestilence has
invaded our Shores. Liberal employment waits upon labor. Abundant crops have rewarded the efforts
of the husbandmen. Increased comforts have come to the home. The national finances have been
strengthened, and public credit has been sustained and made firmer. In all branches of industry
and trade there has been an unequaled degree of prosperity, while there has been a steady gain
in the moral and educational growth of our national character. Churches and schools have flourished.
American patriotism has been exalted. Those engaged in maintaining the honor of the flag with
such signal success have been in a large degree spared from disaster and disease. An honorable
peace has been ratified with a foreign nation with which we were at war, and we are now on
friendly relations with every power of earth.

The trust which we have assumed for the benefit of the people of Cuba has been faithfully advanced.
There is marked progress toward the restoration of healthy industrial conditions, and under
wise sanitary regulations the island has enjoyed unusual exemption from the scourge of fever.
The hurricane which swept over our new possession of Puerto Rico, destroying the homes and
property of the inhabitants, called forth the instant sympathy of the people of the United
States, who were swift to respond with generous aid to the sufferers. While the insurrection
still continues in the island of Luzon, business is resuming its activity, and confidence in
the good purposes of the United States is being rapidly established throughout the archipelago.

For these reasons and countless others, I, William McKinley, President of the United States,
do hereby name Thursday, the thirtieth day of November next, as a day of general thanksgiving
and prayer, to be observed as such by all our people on this continent and in our newly acquired
islands, as well as those who may be at sea or sojourning in foreign lands; and I advise that
on this day religious exercises shall be conducted in the churches or meeting-places of all
denominations, in order that in the social features of the day its real significance may not
be lost sight of, but fervent prayers may be offered to the Most High for a continuance of
the Divine Guidance without which man's efforts are vain, and for Divine consolation to those
whose kindred and friends have sacrificed their lives for country.

I recommend also that on this day so far as may be found practicable labor shall cease from
its accustomed toil and charity abound toward the sick, the needy and the poor.

WILLIAM McKINLEY. Esplanade lots Nos. 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, and 99. Beginning at the
  south corner of Richards street and Halekauwila street, which point is
  S. 30° 25' E., 343.6 feet from the east corner of the Hawaiian Electric
  Company building and run by the true Meridian:

  S. 30° 25' E. 304.50 feet along Halekauwila street.

  S. 56° 49' W. 100.12 feet along Mililani street.

  N. 30° 25' W. 300.60 feet along Government Lots Nos. 112-100.

  N. 54° 34' E. 100.38 feet along Richards street to the initial point.
  Area, 30,255 square feet.

  2d. Esplanade lots Nos. 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, and 68. Beginning at the
  north corner of Alakea street and Allen street, as shown on Government
  Survey's Registered Map No. 1867, and running by true bearings:

  N. 30° 25' W. 200 feet along the northeast side of Allen street.

  N. 59° 35' E. 150 feet along the southeast side of Kilauea street.

  S. 30° 25' E. 200 feet along lots 62 and 69.

  S. 59° 35' W. 150 feet along the northwest side of Alakea street to the
  initial point. Area, 30,000 square feet.

  3d. Lot at east corner of Mililani and Halekauwila streets. Beginning at
  the east corner of Halekauwila and Mililani streets, as shown on
  Government Survey's Registered Map No. 1955, and running by true
  bearings:

  N. 56° 49' E. 110.5 feet along Mililani street.

  S. 3° 52' E. 69.5 feet along inner line of Waikahalulu water lots.

  S. 56° 49' W. 79.5 feet along Bishop Estate land.

  N. 30° 25' W. 60.5 feet along Halekauwila street to the initial point.
  Area, 5,728 square feet.

  4th. A plat of land in Kewalo-uka. Beginning at a point on the upper
  side of Punchbowl Drive, which is 863 feet south and 2,817 feet east of
  Puowaina Trig. Station, as shown on Government Survey's Registered Map
  1749, and running:

  N. 00° 10' W. true 630 feet along Punchbowl Drive.

  S. 57° 00' W. true 694 feet along Punchbowl Drive.

  Thence along Punchbowl Drive in a northeasterly direction 900 feet;
  thence due east 840 feet (more or less) to the boundary of the land of
  Kalawahine; thence along boundary of the land of Kalawahine 1040 feet
  (more or less) to south angle of said land; thence S. 78° 30' W. true
  397 feet (more or less) to Punchbowl Drive:

  N. 84° 50' W. true 245 feet along Punchbowl Drive to initial point. Area
  20 acres (more or less).

  5th. Lots on Punchbowl Slope, Nos. 608, 609, and 610. Beginning at a
  point on the east side of Magazine street, 351.5 feet above the concrete
  post marking the east corner of Spencer and Magazine streets, as shown
  on Government Survey's Registered Map No. 1749, and runs:

  N. 18° 10' E. true 150.0 feet along Magazine street.

  N. 49° 12' E. true 226.7 feet along Government land.

  S. 24° 11' E. true 91.0 feet along Government Road Reserve.

  S. 77° 21' E. true 179.5 feet along same.

  S. 13° 45' E. true 109.8 feet along Government land to north angle of
  Gr. 3813 to Dr. Wood.

  S. 73° 30' W. true 121.3 feet along Gr. 3814 to H.M. Dow.

  S. 76° 15' W. true 250.0 feet along Grs. 3999 and 4000.

  N. 71° 50' W. true 102.5 feet along Gr. 4000 to initial point.

  Area, 83,588 square feet.

  6th. Portion of reef of Kaakaukukui. Beginning at the Government Survey
  Station known as the "Battery" [delta] from which, Punchbowl [delta]
  bears N. 48° 18' 30" E. true and the lighthouse vane.

  N. 56° 14' W. distant 1608.1 feet and running as follows:

  N. 37° 40' W. true 760 feet along on the reef of Kaakaukukui.

  S. 39° 00' W. true 3100 feet along the southeast side of main channel to
  a depth of 20 feet of water (more or less).

  S. 9° 25' W. true 987 feet along the reef in about 20 feet of water.

  N. 52° 23' E. true 3585 feet along on the reef to a point on the
  seashore at high-water mark.

  N. 35° 00' W. true 182 feet along the shore at high-water mark.

  N. 5° 35' W. true 446 feet along Allen street extension to the southeast
  corner of the Battery wall.

  S. 87° 20' W. true 120 feet to the initial point.

  Area, 76-25/100 acres.

  7th. Punchbowl street from Halekauwila street to Allen street. Beginning
  at the southwest corner of Halekauwila and Punchbowl streets, as shown
  on the Government blue print, and running in a westerly direction along
  the U.S. Naval Reservation 572 feet to Allen street, thence along Allen
  street 50 feet, thence in an easterly direction along the United States
  Naval Reservation 480 feet to land belonging to the Bishop Estate,
  thence 110 feet to the initial point.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

A PROCLAMATION.

To the People of the United States:

Garret Augustus Hobart, Vice-President of the United States, died at his home in Paterson,
New Jersey, at 8:30 o'clock this morning. In him the Nation has lost one of its most illustrious
citizens and one of its most faithful servants. His participation in the business life, and
the law-making body of his native State was marked by unswerving fidelity and by a high order
of talents and attainments; and his too brief career as Vice-President of the United States
and President of the Senate exhibited the loftiest qualities of upright and sagacious statesmanship.
In the world of affairs he had few equals among his contemporaries. His private character was
gentle and noble. He will long be mourned by his friends as a man of singular purity and attractiveness
whose sweetness of disposition won all hearts, while his elevated purposes, his unbending integrity
and whole-hearted devotion to the public good deserved and acquired universal respect and esteem.

In sorrowing testimony of the loss which has fallen upon the country, I direct that on the
day of the funeral the Executive Offices of the United States shall be closed and all posts
and stations of the Army and Navy shall display the national flag at half-mast, and that the
representatives of the United States in foreign countries shall pay appropriate tribute to
the illustrious dead for a period of thirty days.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

That the lands hereby restored to the public domain shall be open to settlement from date hereof,
but shall not be subject to entry, filing or selection until after ninety days notice by such
publication as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.

WILLIAM McKINLEY. Said allotments shall be made from lands which shall at the time of the selection
thereof be surveyed, excepting that any Indian entitled to allotment under said act who has
improvements upon unsurveyed land may select the same for his allotment, whereupon the Secretary
of the Interior shall cause the same to be surveyed and allotted to him.

Sections sixteen and thirty-six in each township will be subject to such right of the State
of Washington thereto as may be ascertained and determined by the land department in the administration
of the grant of lands in place to that State for the support of common schools.

The lands which have been allotted to the Indians are for greater convenience particularly
described in the accompanying schedule, entitled "Schedule of lands allotted to the Indians
in restored portion of Colville Reservation, Washington, and withheld from settlement and entry
by proclamation of the President, dated April 10, 1900," and which schedule is made a part hereof.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

  SCHEDULE OF LANDS ALLOTTED TO THE INDIANS IN RESTORED PORTION OF
  COLVILLE RESERVATION, WASHINGTON, AND WITHHELD FROM SETTLEMENT AND
  ENTRY BY PROCLAMATION OF THE PRESIDENT, DATED APRIL 10, 1900.

  Township 35 North, Range 31 East.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at a large fir tree
  blazed on N. side being S.E. Cor. thence due N. 20 chains set post and
  made a mound thence due west 40 chains set post and made mound thence S.
  20 chains set post being S.W. Cor. thence due E. 40 chains to point of
  beginning, in section 11 or 12.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at N.W. Cor. of 198 due
  W. 40 chains set post being S.E. Cor. thence due N. 20 chains set post
  thence due W. 40 chains set post thence due S. 20 chains set post thence
  due E. 40 chains to point of beginning, in section 10 or 11.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at a post and mound at
  N.W. Cor. thence due S. 20 chains set post thence due E. 40 chains set
  post S.E. Cor. thence due N. 20 chains set post thence due W. 40 chains
  to point of beginning, in section 6 or 7.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at S.W. Cor. of 200
  thence due S. 20 chains set post thence due E. 40 chains set post thence
  due N. 20 chains, being N.E. Cor. thence due W. 40 chains to point of
  beginning, in section 6 or 7.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at S.E. Cor. of 201
  thence due S. 40 chains being S.W. Cor. thence due E. 40 chains set post
  thence due N. 20 chains thence due W. 40 chains set post thence due S.
  20 chains to point of beginning, in section 7 or 8.

  Township 35 North, Range 32 East.

  A tract of land described as follows: Set post and made mound for N.E.
  Cor. thence due S. 20 chains set post thence due W. 40 chains set post
  and made mound thence due N. 20 chains set post made a mound thence due
  E. 40 chains to point of beginning, in section 7 or 8.

  Township 35 North, Range 36 East.

  SE 1/4, Sec. 24; NE 1/4 NW 1/4, NW 1/4 NE 1/4, Sec. 25.

  Township 35 North, Range 37 East.

  E 1/2 SE 1/4, Sec. 9; lots 3, 4 and 5 of Sec. 10; lots 1 and 2 of Sec.
  15; NE 1/4 SW 1/4 and lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of Sec. 16; E 1/2 NE 1/4,
  of Sec. 19; W 1/2 NW 1/4, W 1/2 SW 1/4, SE 1/4 SW 1/4 and lots 2, 3 and
  4 of Sec. 20; NW 1/4, W 1/2 SW 1/4 and lots 1, 2 and 4 of Sec. 29; E. NE
  1/4, NW 1/4 and S. 1/2 Sec. 30; NE 1/4 and lots 1 and 2 of Sec. 31; NE
  1/4 NW 1/4, lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Sec. 32.

  Township 36 North, Range 28 East.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at a mound and stake run
  due north 20 chains thence due west 40 chains set post thence due S. 20
  chains set post thence due E. 40 chains to point of beginning.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at NE Cor. of 188 run
  due N. 20 chains set post thence due W. 40 chains set post thence due
  S. 20 chains to N.W. Cor. 188 thence due E. 40 chains to point of
  beginning.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at N.W. Cor. of 188
  thence due W. 40 chains set post thence due N. 20 chains set post thence
  due E. 40 chains to N.W. Cor. of 189 thence due S. 20 chains to the
  point of beginning.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at N.W. Cor. of 190
  thence due N. 20 chains set post thence due E. 40 chains set post thence
  due S. 20 chains to N.E. Cor. of 190 thence due W. 20 chains to point of
  beginning.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at N.W. Cor. of 191
  thence due N. 20 chains set post thence due E. 40 chains set post thence
  due S. 20 chains to N.E. Cor. of 191 thence due W. 40 chains to point of
  beginning.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at N.W. Cor. 190 thence
  due W. 20 chains set post thence due N. 40 chains set post thence due E.
  20 chains to N.W. Cor. 192 thence due S. 40 chains to point of
  beginning.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at S.E. Cor. Sec. 32,
  Tp. 37, R. 28 run due S. 20 chains set post thence due E. 40 chains made
  rock mound thence due N. 20 chains to quarter Sec. Cor. of Sec. 33 on
  Tp. line, thence due W. 40 chains on Tp. line to point of beginning.

  Township 36 North, Range 29 East.

  A tract of land described as follows: Set post and made mound thence due
  N. 20 chains set post thence due E. 40 chains set post thence due S. 20
  chains set post thence due W. 40 chains to point of beginning, in
  section 9.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning on ninth standard
  parallel at quarter Cor. of Sec. 33 thence due S. 40 chains set post
  thence due W. 20 chains set post thence due N. 40 chains set post thence
  due E. on the 9th standard parallel 20 chains to point of beginning.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at S.W. Cor. of 215 on
  ninth standard parallel thence due E. 40 chains set post thence due S.
  20 chains set post thence due W. 40 chains set post thence due N. 20
  chains to place of beginning, in section 4 or 5.

  Township 36 North, Range 30 East.

  E 1/2 of NW 1/4, W 1/2 NE 1/4, SE 1/4 NE 1/4, NE 1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec. 33;
  SW 1/4 NW 1/4, N 1/2 SW 1/4, W 1/4 SE 1/4, SE 1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec. 34.

  Township 36 North, Range 32 East.

  NE 1/4, W 1/2 SE 1/4, E 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 1; NE 1/4 NE 1/4 and N 1/2 of
  SE 1/4 of NE 1/4 of Sec. 2; E 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec. 11; NW 1/4 and W 1/2 SW
  1/4 of Sec. 12; W 1/2 NW 1/4 and W 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 13; E 1/2 NE 1/4
  and E 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec. 14; NE 1/4 and W 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec. 23; W 1/2
  SE 1/4 of Sec. 26; E 1/2 NW 1/4 and W 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 35.

  Township 36 North, Range 33 East.

  W 1/2 of E 1/2 of NW 1/4 and W 1/2 of NW 1/4 of Sec. 1; E 1/2 of E 1/2
  of NE 1/4 of Sec. 2; NE 1/4, N 1/2 SE 1/4, E 1/2 NW 1/4 of Sec. 4; N 1/2
  NE 1/4 and NW 1/4 NW 1/4 of Sec. 5; N 1/2 NE 1/4; SW 1/4 NE 1/4 and NW
  1/4 of Sec. 6.

  Township 36 North, Range 37 East.

  SW 1/4 SE 1/4 and lot 4 of Sec. 22; lot 1 of Sec. 26; W 1/2 NE 1/4, W
  1/2 SE 1/4 and lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Sec. 27; SE 1/4 NE 1/4, NE 1/4 SE
  1/4 of Sec. 33; NW 1/4 NE 1/4, S 1/2 NW 1/4, SW 1/4 and lots 1, 2, 3, 4
  and 5 of Sec. 34; and lot 1 of Sec. 35.

  Township 37 North, Range 27 East.

  E 1/2 NE 1/4, E 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec. 1; SE 1/4 NW 1/4 and lots 2, 3 and 4
  of Sec. 3, the E 1/2 NW 1/4 and NE 1/4 of Sec. 12, The W 1/2 of E 1/2 of
  SW 1/4 and lots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 of Sec. 16; Lots 1 and 2 of Sec. 20, W
  1/2 NW 1/4 of Sec. 21.

  Township 37 North, Range 28 East.

  W 1/2 NE 1/4, E 1/2 NW 1/4, E 1/2 SW 1/4, lots 4, 5, 6 and 7 of Sec. 6;
  N 1/2 NW 1/4 Sec. 7; NW 1/4 NE 1/4, NE 1/4 NW 1/4, Sec. 9; S 1/2 SE 1/4,
  SE 1/4 SW 1/4, Sec. 25; S 1/2 of Sec. 32; S 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 33, N 1/2
  NE 1/4 and NE 1/4 NW 1/4 of Sec. 36.

  Township 37 North, Range 29 East.

  N 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 27, lot 4 of Sec. 30, E 1/2 NE 1/4, NW 1/4 NE 1/4,
  NE 1/4 NW 1/4 and lot 1 of Sec. 31; S 1/2 NW 1/4, N 1/2 SW 1/4 and SE
  1/4 of Sec. 32, W 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 33.

  Township 37 North, Range 30 East.

  W 1/2 NW 1/4 of Sec. 1, E 1/2 NE 1/4 of Sec. 2; SE 1/4 of Sec. 3; S 1/2
  NE 1/4 of Sec. 8; S 1/2 NE 1/4 and S 1/2 NW 1/4 of Sec. 9; N 1/2 NE 1/4
  and N 1/2 NW 1/4 Sec. 10.

  Township 37 North, Range 33 East.

  Lots 8 and 9, Sec. 5; Lots 3, 5, 12 and 13 of Sec. 8; E 1/2 NE 1/4, SE
  1/4 SE 1/4 and lots 1, 4, 7 and 8 of Sec. 17; NE 1/4 NW 1/4 and E 1/2 of
  Sec. 20; SW 1/4 NW 1/4 and NW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 21; NE 1/4, SE 1/4 NW
  1/4, N 1/2 SE 1/4, SW 1/4 SE 1/4, E 1/2 SW 1/4 and SW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec.
  29; SE 1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec. 30; NE 1/4 NE 1/4 of Sec. 31; NW 1/4 NE 1/4, N
  1/2 NW 1/4 and E 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec. 32; SE 1/4 and S 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec.
  33; E 1/2 SE 1/4 and W 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 34; W 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 35.

  Township 37 North, Range 37 East.

  Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4, Sec. 1; SE 1/4 NE 1/4 and lot 1 of Sec. 2; S 1/2 SE
  1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 4; SE 1/4 NE 1/4 and lot 1 of Sec. 5; W 1/2 SW 1/4 and lots
  1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of Sec. 9; N 1/2 NE 1/4, Sec. 10; SW
  1/4 of Sec. 13; S 1/2 NE 1/4, SE 1/4 and SE 1/4 of SW 1/4 of Sec. 14; SW
  1/4 NW 1/4, W 1/2 SW 1/4, SE 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 15; SE 1/4 NE 1/4 and NE
  1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec. 16. S 1/2 NE 1/4, E 1/2 NW 1/4, NW 1/4, NW 1/4, NE
  1/4 of SW 1/4 and N 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec. 22; E 1/2 NW 1/4, SW 1/4 NW 1/4,
  E 1/2 SW 1/4, NW 1/4 SW 1/4 and lots 1 and 2 and E 1/2 of Sec. 23; S 1/2
  SE 1/4 and S 1/2 SW 1/4 Sec. 24; N 1/2 NE 1/4 of Sec. 25; N 1/2 SW 1/4
  and lots 9, 10, 11 and 12 of Sec. 26; S 1/2 NE 1/4, N 1/2 SE 1/4, NE 1/4
  SW 1/4 and lots 9, 10, 12, 13 and 14 of Sec. 27; Lots 1, 5, 7, 8, and 12
  of Sec. 28, W 1/2 NE 1/4, W 1/2 SE 1/4 and lots 2, 3, 4 and 5 of Sec.
  33.

  Township 37 North, Range 38 East.

  Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 of Sec. 18; Lots 1, 3 and 4 of Sec. 19.

  Township 38 North, Range 27 East.

  SW 1/4 NW 1/4 and lot 6 of Sec. 2; Lots 6, 7, 8, and 9 of Sec. 3; Lots
  4, 5, and 6 of Sec. 11; SE 1/4 of NW 1/4 and lots 7 and 8 of Sec. 14;
  Lot 3 of Sec. 22; W 1/2 NE 1/4 of NW 1/4 and lots 3, 4, 5, and 6 of Sec.
  23; SE 1/4 SE 1/4 and lot 7 of Sec. 27; E 1/2 NE 1/4, E 1/2 SE 1/4 and
  lots 5, 6, 7, and 8 of Sec. 34.

  Township 38 North, Range 28 East.

  S 1/2 SE 1/4 and SE 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 10; SW 1/4 of Sec. 11; N 1/2 NW
  1/4 Sec. 14; N 1/2 NE 1/4 and N 1/2 NW 1/4, Sec. 15; NE 1/4 NE 1/4 of
  Sec. 16; SW 1/4 of Sec. 26; W 1/2 NE 1/4, E 1/2 SW 1/4 and lots 3 and 4
  of Sec. 31.

  Township 38 North, Range 29 East.

  S 1/2 NW 1/4 and lots 2, 3, and 4 of Sec. 4; NE 1/4, S 1/2 NW 1/4, N 1/2
  SE 1/4 and lots 3 and 4 of Sec. 5; E 1/2 NE 1/4 of Sec. 6.

  Township 38 North, Range 30 East.

  E 1/2 SW 1/4 and SW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 25; SE 1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec. 26; E
  1/2 NE 1/4 and E 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec. 35; W 1/2 NW 1/4 of Sec. 36.

  Township 38 North, Range 32 East.

  E 1/2 SE 1/4 and SW 1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec. 25; W 1/2 NE 1/4 and SE 1/4 NE
  1/4 of Sec. 36.

  Township 38 North, Range 33 East.

  W 1/2 NW 1/4 of Sec. 1; S 1/2 NE 1/4 and lots 1 and 2 of Sec. 2; lot 4
  of Sec. 3; lot 1 of Sec. 4; S 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec. 9; S 1/2 NE 1/4, S 1/2
  NW 1/4, SE 1/4 and E 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 15; NE 1/4 of Sec. 16; S 1/2 NE
  1/4, SE 1/4 and E 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 21; N 1/2 NE 1/4 of Sec. 22; S 1/2
  SE 1/4, Sec. 26; N 1/2 NW 1/4 of Sec. 27; N 1/2 NE 1/4, NE 1/4 NW 1/4,
  SE 1/4 and Lot 1 of Sec. 28; SW 1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec. 30; NW 1/4 NE 1/4 of
  Sec. 31; and N 1/2 NE 1/4 of Sec. 35.

  Township 38 North, Range 37 East.

  S 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec. 4; SE 1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec. 5; NE 1/4 NE 1/4, E 1/2 SE
  1/4, SW 1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec. 8; Sec. 9; SE 1/4 NE 1/4, W 1/2 NW 1/4, E 1/2
  SE 1/4, SW 1/4 SE 1/4 and SW 1/4 of Sec. 10; SE 1/4 NE 1/4 and E 1/2 SE
  1/4 of Sec. 11; S 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 12; E 1/2 NE 1/4, N 1/2 NW 1/4 and
  lots 1 and 2 of Sec. 13; E 1/2 NE 1/4, SW 1/4 NE 1/4, W 1/2 NW 1/4, SE
  1/4, E 1/2 SW 1/4 and NW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 14; Sec. 15; E 1/2, NW 1/4
  and N 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 16; N 1/2 NE 1/4 of Sec. 17; E 1/2 NE 1/4, N
  1/2 SE 1/4, SW 1/4 SE 1/4, SE 1/4 SW 1/4 and lot 5 of Sec. 21; NE 1/4, S
  1/2 NW 1/4, NW 1/4 NW 1/4, N 1/2 SE 1/4, N 1/2 SW 1/4, and SW 1/4 SW 1/4
  of Sec. 22; N 1/2 NE 1/4, NW 1/4 and S 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec. 23; NW 1/4, NW
  1/4 SW 1/4 and lot 5 of Sec. 25; SW 1/4 SW 1/4 and E 1/2 of Sec. 26; SE
  1/4 SE 1/4 and SW 1/4 of Sec. 27; NW 1/4 NE 1/4, E 1/2 SE 1/4, SW 1/4 SE
  1/4, SE 1/4 SW 1/4 and lots 2, 3, 4, and 5 of Sec. 28; SW 1/4 NE 1/4 and
  lots 3, 4, and 5 of Sec. 29; W 1/2 NE 1/4, N 1/2 SE 1/4, SW 1/4 SE 1/4,
  SE 1/4 SW 1/4 and lots 1, 2, 5, 6, and 8 of Sec. 33; N.E. 1/4 NE 1/4,
  and E 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec 35; lots 1, 2, and 3 of Sec. 36.

  Township 38 North, Range 38 East.

  Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 of Sec. 8; lot 5 of Sec. 19; and lots 1 and 2 of
  Sec. 30.

  Township 39 North, Range 27 East.

  Lots 3 and 4 of Sec. 10; N 1/2 SW 1/4 and lots 2, 3, 5, and 6 of Sec.
  15; lots 5 and 6 of Sec. 16; E 1/2 NW 1/4, NE 1/4 SE 1/4 and lots 6, 8,
  9, 10, and 11 of Sec. 22; SE 1/4 and lots 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12 of
  Sec. 27; lots 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 of Sec. 34.

  Township 39 North, Range 28 East.

  NE 1/4 NE 1/4, S 1/2 NE 1/4, SE 1/4 NW 1/4 and SE 1/4 of Sec. 1; E 1/2
  of Sec. 12; and SE 1/4 of Sec. 36.

  Township 39 North, Range 29 East.

  W 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 3; SE 1/4 and NW 1/4 of Sec. 4; N 1/2 NW 1/4 of
  Sec. 5; W 1/2 NW 1/4 and SW 1/4 of Sec. 6; W 1/2 NW 1/4 of Sec. 7; N
  1/2, SE 1/4 and SE 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 9; S 1/2 NW 1/4, and SW 1/4 of Sec
  10; W 1/2 SE 1/4 and E 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec 15; S 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 33.

  Township 39 North, Range 30 East.

  S 1/2 SE 1/4 and SW 1/4 of Sec. 4; E 1/2 NE 1/4 and E 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec.
  8; N 1/2 NE 1/4 and N 1/2 NW 1/4 of Sec. 9.

  Township 39 North, Range 31 East.

  A tract of land described as follows: Commencing at a stake marked
  "I.A." ran north at variation of 22° 30' E. forty chains and set post at
  N.W. corner of claim thence east 20 chains and set N.E. corner thence
  south 40 chains setting S.E. corner thence west 20 chains to point of
  beginning.

  A tract of land described as follows: Commencing at N.W. corner of No.
  12 thence east 10 chains to S.W. corner of allotment No. 13 thence due
  north 20 chains and set post thence due east 10 chains and set post
  thence due north 20 chains and set post thence due east 20 chains and
  set post thence due south 20 chains and set post thence due west 10
  chains and set post thence due south 20 chains and set post thence due
  west 20 chains to S.W. corner of allotment No. 13.

  A tract of land described as follows: Commencing at N.W. Cor. of No. 13,
  thence due east 10 chains and set post; thence due N. 20 chains and set
  post; thence due E. 10 chains and set post; thence due N. 20 chains and
  set post, thence due E. 20 chains and set post; thence due S. 20 chains
  and set post thence due W 10 chains and set post thence due S. 20 chains
  and set post thence due W. 20 chains to the S.W. corner of allotment No.
  14.

  A tract of land described as follows: Commencing at N.W. corner of No.
  14 thence due north 40 chains and set post thence due east 20 chains and
  set post thence due S. 40 chains and set post thence due west 20 chains
  on line between Nos. 14 & 15 to place of beginning.

  A tract of land described as follows: Commencing at the N.W. corner of
  No. 15, thence due east 10 chains and set post thence due north 40
  chains and set post, thence due east 20 chains and set post, thence due
  south 40 chains set post for S.E. corner thence due west 20 chains to
  S.W. corner of No. 16.

  Township 39 North, Range 32 East.

  SW 1/4 NE 1/4, N 1/2 NW 1/4 and SE 1/4 NW 1/4 of Sec. 2.

  Township 39 North, Range 33 East.

  SW 1/4 NE 1/4, SE 1/4 NW 1/4, NW 1/4 SE 1/4 and NE 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 2;
  lots 1 and 2 of Sec. 9; Lot 1 of Sec. 10; lots 1, 2, 3, and 4 of Sec.
  11; N 1/2 of S 1/2 of NE 1/4 and lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 of
  Sec. 12; N 1/2 SE 1/4 and SW 1/4 of Sec. 13; S 1/2 NE 1/4, S 1/2 NW 1/4,
  SW 1/4 and lots 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 of Sec. 14; SE 1/4 SE 1/4 and lots 1,
  2, and 4 of Sec. 15; NE 1/4 NE 1/4 and lots 1, 5, and 6 of Sec. 16; NW
  1/4 NE 1/4, NE 1/4 NW 1/4 and lots 6, 7, 8, and 9 of Sec. 17; W 1/2 Sec.
  23; W 1/2 Sec. 24; W 1/2 NE 1/4, E 1/2 NW 1/4 and W 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec.
  26; SW 1/4 NW 1/4 and NW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 29; SE 1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec.
  33; SW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 34; E 1/2 of Sec. 35.

  Township 39 North, Range 36 East.

  SW 1/4 NE 1/4, W 1/2 SE 1/4 and SE 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 11, N. 1/2 SW 1/4
  of Sec. 13; S 1/2 NE 1/4, SE 1/4 NW 1/4 and NE 1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec. 14.

  Township 39 North, Range 37 East.

  SE 1/4 of Sec 8; S 1/2 NE 1/4, W 1/2 SE 1/4 and SE 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec.
  16; SE 1/4 NE 1/4 and SE 1/4 of Sec. 17; N 1/2 NE 1/4, NE 1/4 NW 1/4, S
  1/2 NW 1/4 and SW 1/4 of Sec. 20; NE 1/4, NE 1/4 NW 1/4 and E 1/2 SE 1/4
  of Sec 21; NW 1/4 and E 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 29.

  Township 39 North, Range 38 East.

  SW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 12; W 1/2 NW 1/4 and NW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 13; S
  1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 14; NW 1/4 of Sec. 23.

  Township 39 North, Range 39 East.

  Lots 5, 6, and 7 of Sec. 2; SE 1/4 NE 1/4 and E 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec. 7; SW
  1/4 NW 1/4 and W 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec 8; SW 1/4 SE 1/4 and SE 1/4 SW 1/4 of
  Sec. 9; W 1/2 NE 1/4, E 1/2 NW 1/4, SW 1/4 NW 1/4 and lot 3 of Sec. 16;
  E 1/2 NE 1/4, NW 1/4 and NW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 17; NE 1/4 NE 1/4, SE
  1/4, and E 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 18.

  Township 40 North, Range 27 East.

  E 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec. 11; SW 1/4 NE 1/4, SE 1/4 NW 1/4, W 1/2 SE 1/4 and
  SW 1/4 of Sec. 12; NW 1/4 of Sec. 13; E 1/2 NE 1/4 of Sec. 14; W 1/2 of
  SW 1/4 of NE 1/4, NW 1/4, W 1/2 of W 1/2 of SE 1/4, E 1/2 SW 1/4, and NW
  1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 15; lot 5 of Sec. 21; NE 1/4, N 1/2 SE 1/4, SW 1/4 SE
  1/4, S 1/2 SW 1/4 and lots 2, 3, and 4 of Sec. 22; W 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec.
  27.

  Township 40 North, Range 28 East.

  S 1/2 SE 1/4 and lots 3 and 4 of Sec. 19; SW 1/4 of Sec. 35.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at a stone monument on
  the international line, being the N.W. Cor. of allotment 116, thence
  running due east on boundary line 40 chains set post at N.E. Cor. thence
  due S. 20 chains set post marked "I.A." being S.E. Cor. thence due W. 40
  chains set post at S.W. Cor. thence due N. 20 chains to the point of
  beginning, in section 2 or 3.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at S.W. Cor. of 116
  thence due E. 40 chains to S.E. Cor. of 116 thence due S. 20 chains and
  set post being S.E. Cor. of 117 thence due W. 40 chains and set post at
  S.W. Cor. of allotment 117 thence due N. 20 chains to place of beginning
  being N.W. Cor. of No. 117.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at S.W. Cor. of 117
  thence due E. 40 chains to S.E. Cor. of No. 117 thence due S. 20 chains
  to S.E. Cor. No. 118 and set post "I.A." thence due W. 40 chains to S.W.
  Cor. of No. 118 and set post "I.A." thence due N. 20 chains to point of
  beginning being N.W. Cor. of 118.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at S.W. Cor. 118 thence
  due E. 40 chains to S.E. Cor. of 118 thence due S. 20 chains to S.E.
  Cor. 119 and set post "I.A." thence due W. 40 chains to S.W. Cor. of 119
  and set post thence due N. 20 chains to N.W. Cor. or point of beginning.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at S.E. Cor. of 116
  thence due E. 40 chains to N.E. Cor. of 122 and set post "I.A." thence
  S. 20 chains to S.E. Cor. and set post thence due W. 40 chains to S.E.
  Cor. of No. 117 being S.W. Cor. of No. 122 thence due N. 20 chains to
  point of beginning, in Sec. 2 or 3.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at S.E. Cor. of 117
  thence due E. 40 chains to S.E. Cor. of 122 thence due south 20 chains
  to S.E. Cor. of 123 set post "I.A." thence due W. 40 chains to S.E. Cor.
  of 118 thence due N. 20 chains to point of beginning, in section 2 or 3.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at boundary line N.E.
  Cor. of No. 116 thence due E. on boundary line 40 chains set post thence
  due S. 20 chains to N.E. Cor. of 122 thence due W. on line between 122 &
  222 to N.W. Cor. of 122 thence N. 20 chains to place of beginning, in
  section 1 or 2.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at N.E. Cor. of 222 on
  boundary line thence due E. 40 chains set post thence due S. 20 chains
  set post thence due W. 40 chains to S.E. Cor. of 222 thence due N. 20
  chains to place of beginning, in section 1 or 2.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at S.E. Cor. of 223
  thence due S. 20 chains set post thence due W. 40 chains to N.E. Cor. of
  123 thence due N. 20 chains to N.E. of 122 thence due E. 40 chains
  between line of 223 and 224 to place of beginning, in section 1 or 2.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at S.E. Cor. of 224
  thence due S. 20 chains set post thence due W. 40 chains to S.E. Cor. of
  123 thence due N. 20 chains to S.W. Cor. of 224 thence due E. 40 chains
  between line 224 & 225 to place of beginning, in section 1 or 2.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at S.E. Cor. of 225
  thence due S. 20 chains set post thence due W. 40 chains set post thence
  due N. 20 chains to S.W. Cor. 225 thence due E. 40 chains on line
  between 225 & 226 to point of beginning, in section 1 or 2.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning on boundary line at N.E.
  Cor. of 223 thence on boundary line due E. 20 chains set post thence due
  S. 40 chains set post thence due W. 20 chains to S.E. Cor. of 224 thence
  due N. 40 chains to place of beginning, in section 1 or 2.

  Township 40 North, Range 29 East.

  A tract of land described as follows: Set post on International boundary
  line being N.E. Cor. of 120 thence due S. 20 chains to S.E. Cor. and set
  post "I.A." thence due W. 40 chains and set post being S.W. Cor. of 120
  thence due N. 20 chains to boundary line set post "I.A." being N.W. Cor.
  thence on boundary line 40 chains to point of beginning, in section 5 or
  6.

  A tract of land described as follows: Beginning at SE 1/4 of 120 thence
  due S. 20 chains to S.E. Cor. and set post "I.A." thence W. 40 chains to
  S.W. Cor. and set post thence due N. 20 chains to N.W. Cor. thence due
  East 40 chains to point of beginning, Sec. 5 or 6.

  NE 1/4 and S 1/2 of Sec. 32; S. 1/2 SE 1/4 and S 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 33.

  Township 40 North, Range 30 East.

  E 1/2 NW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 3; W 1/2 W 1/2 SW 1/4 of Sec. 15; NE 1/4 SE
  1/4 and all that part of the S 1/2 of S 1/2 of N 1/2 of NE 1/4 lying
  south and east of Myers creek, all that part of S 1/2 NE 1/4 lying east
  of Myers creek, and all that part of the NW 1/4 SE 1/4 lying east of
  Myers creek and all that part of the S 1/2 SE 1/4 lying east of Myers
  creek in Sec. 16; W 1/2 of SW 1/4 of NE 1/4, W 1/2 of NW 1/4 of SE 1/4,
  E 1/2 SW 1/4, and all that part of W 1/2 SW 1/4 lying east of Myers
  creek except one acre in Reno Quartz claim of Sec. 21; S 1/2 SE 1/4 of
  Sec. 25; S 3/4 of W 1/2 of NE 1/4 of NW 1/4, S 3/4 of E 1/2 of NW 1/4 of
  NW 1/4; S 3/4 of E 1/2 of W 1/2 of NW 1/4 of NW 1/4; E 3/4 of N 1/2 of
  SW 1/4 of NW 1/4, SE 1/4 of SW 1/4 of NW 1/4 and N 1/2 of NW 1/4 of SE
  1/4 of NW 1/4 of Sec. 28; W 1/2 SE 1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec. 29; S 1/2 NW 1/4
  and SW 1/4 of Sec. 30; E 1/2 NE 1/4 and W 1/2 NE 1/4 of SE 1/4 of Sec.
  32; S 1/2 NE 1/4 of NW 1/4, SE 1/4 NW 1/4, W 1/2 of W 1/2 of W 1/2 of NW
  1/4 and NE 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 33.

  Township 40 North, Range 31 East.

  S 1/2 NE 1/4, W 1/2 SE 1/4 and NE 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 25.

  Township 40 North, Range 32 East.

  E 1/2 SE 1/4 NE 1/4 and E 1/2 of E 1/2 of SE 1/4 of Sec. 9; SW 1/4 NE
  1/4 S 1/2 NW 1/4, W 1/2 SE 1/4 and SW 1/4 of Sec. 10; W 1/2 of W 1/2 of
  NE 1/4, W 1/2 of NE 1/4 of NW 1/4, SE 1/4 NW 1/4, NE 1/4 SW 1/4 and SW
  1/4 SW 1/4 and all that part of W 1/2 NW 1/4 lying east of Kettle river,
  and all that part of NE 1/4 NW 1/4 lying east of Kettle river of Sec.
  15; the E 1/2 NE 1/4 NE 1/4 and all that part of SE 1/4 SE 1/4 lying
  east of Kettle river in Sec. 16; lot 5 and all that part of the NW 1/4
  SW 1/4, W 1/2 of NW 1/4 of NE 1/4 of SW 1/4, SW 1/4 of NE 1/4 of SW 1/4,
  NE 1/4 of SW 1/4 of SW 1/4, and SE 1/4 SW 1/4 lying east of Kettle river
  in Sec. 22; lot 1, W 1/2 of SE 1/4 of NW 1/4 of SW 1/4, all of NE 1/4 of
  NW 1/4 of NW 1/4, SW 1/4 SW 1/4, and SW 1/4 NW 1/4 of SW 1/4 lying east
  of Kettle river in Sec. 26; E 1/2 of NW 1/4, E 1/2 SW 1/4, W 1/2 SE 1/4,
  SE 1/4 SE 1/4 and lots 2, 3, 4, and 5 of Sec. 27; lot 3 of Sec. 30; E
  1/2 NE 1/4, NW 1/4 NE 1/4, E 1/2 of SW 1/4 of NE 1/4, E 1/2 of NW 1/4 of
  SE 1/4 and E 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec. 34; W 1/2 of NW 1/4 of NE 1/4 of NW 1/4,
  W 1/2 of SE 1/4 of SW 1/4, lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 and all that part of SW
  1/4 SW 1/4 lying east of Kettle river.

  Township 40 North, Range 33 East.

  SE 1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec. 12; NE 1/4 NE 1/4, W 1/2 NE 1/4, NE 1/4 NW 1/4, N
  1/2 SE 1/4 and SE 1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec. 13.

  Township 40 North, Range 34 East.

  S 1/2 NE 1/4, SE 1/4 NW 1/4 and lots 1, 2 and 3 of Sec. 1; E 1/2 SW 1/4
  and lots 3, 6, 7, 8 and 11 of Sec. 3; SW 1/4 NE 1/4, S 1/2 NW 1/4, N 1/2
  SW 1/4 and lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of Sec. 4; SE 1/4 NE 1/4 and NE 1/4
  SE 1/4 of Sec. 5; SW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 7; E 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec. 8; E 1/2
  NE 1/4, N 1/2 SE 1/4 and lots 1, 4 and 6 of Sec. 9; N 1/2 NW 1/4, SW 1/4
  NW 1/4 and NW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 10; SW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 13; S 1/2 NE
  1/4, SE 1/4 and SE 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 14; NW 1/4 NE 1/4 and NE 1/4 NW
  1/4 of Sec. 15; E 1/2 NE 1/4 of Sec. 17; NW 1/4 NW 1/4 of Sec. 18; SW
  1/4 NE 1/4, SE 1/4 NW 1/4, NW 1/4 SE 1/4 and NE 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 19; N
  1/2 NE 1/4, Sec. 23; NW 1/4 NE 1/4 and lots 1 and 2 of Sec. 30.

  Township 40 North, Range 35 East.

  N 1/2 of SE 1/4 of NW 1/4 and lots 3, 4 and N 1/2 of lot 5 of Sec. 6.

  Township 40 North, Range 39 East.

  SW 1/4 SE 1/4, SE 1/4 SW 1/4 of Sec. 25; SE 1/4 NE 1/4 and lot 1 of Sec.
  35; NE 1/4 NE 1/4, SW 1/4 NE 1/4, NW 1/4 and lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Sec.
  36.

  Township 40 North, Range 40 East.

  SW 1/4 SE 1/4 of Sec. 11; NW 1/4 NE 1/4 of E 1/2 SE 1/4 of Sec. 19; S
  1/2 NE 1/4, S 1/2 NW 1/4 and S 1/2 of Sec. 20; S 1/2 NE 1/4, SE 1/4 NW
  1/4, NW 1/4 SE 1/4, N 1/2 SW 1/4, SW 1/4 SW 1/4 and lot 1 of Sec. 21;
  lots 2 and 3 of Sec. 22, lot 2 of Sec. 28; NE 1/4 NW 1/4 and lots 1 and
  2 of Sec. 29; E 1/2 NE 1/4, SW 1/4 NE 1/4, E 1/2 NW 1/4 and lot 1 of
  Sec. 30; lots 3 and 4 of Sec. 31.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas the German Government has entered into a Commercial Agreement with the United States
in conformity with the provisions of the third section of the Tariff Act of the United States
approved July 24, 1897, by which agreement in the judgment of the President reciprocal and
equivalent concessions are secured in favor of the products of the United States:

Therefore, be it known that I, William McKinley, President of the United States of America,
acting under the authority conferred by said act of Congress, do hereby suspend during the
continuance in force of said agreement the imposition and collection of the duties imposed
by the first section of said act upon the articles hereinafter specified, being the products
of the soil and industry of Germany; and do declare in place thereof the rates of duty provided
in the third section of said act to be in force and effect from and after the date of this
proclamation, as follows, namely:

"Upon argols, or crude tartar, or wine lees, crude, five per centum ad valorem.

"Upon brandies, or other spirits manufactured or distilled from grain or other materials, one
dollar and seventy-five cents per proof gallon.

"Upon still wines, and vermuth, in casks, thirty-five cents per gallon; in bottles or jugs,
per case of one dozen bottles or jugs containing each not more than one quart and more than
one pint, or twenty-four bottles or jugs containing each not more than one pint, one dollar
and twenty-five cents per case, and any excess beyond these quantities found in such bottles
or jugs shall be subject to a duty of four cents per pint or fractional part thereof, but no
separate or additional duty shall be assessed upon the bottles or jugs.

"Upon paintings in oil or water colors, pastels, pen and ink drawings, and statuary, fifteen
per centum ad valorem" of which the officers and citizens of the United States will take due
notice.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas His Majesty the King of Italy has entered into a reciprocal Commercial Agreement with
the United States of America pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of section 3
of the Tariff Act of the United States approved July 24, 1897, which agreement is in the English
text in the words and figures following, to wit:

  The President of the United States of America and His Majesty the King
  of Italy, mutually desirous to improve the commercial relations between
  the two countries by a Special Agreement relative thereto, have
  appointed as their Plenipotentiaries for that purpose, namely:

  The President of the United States of America, the Honorable John A.
  Kasson, Special Commissioner Plenipotentiary, etc., and

  His Majesty the King of Italy, His Excellency the Baron S. Fava, Senator
  of the Kingdom, his Ambassador at Washington, etc.,

  Who being duly empowered thereunto have agreed upon the following
  articles:

  ARTICLE I.

  It is agreed on the part of the United States, pursuant to and in
  accordance with the provisions of the third section of the Tariff Act
  of the United States approved July 24, 1897, and in consideration of
  the concessions hereinafter made on the part of Italy in favor of the
  products and manufactures of the United States, that the existing duties
  imposed upon the following articles, being the product of the soil or
  industry of Italy, imported into the United States shall be suspended
  during the continuance in force of this agreement, and in place thereof
  the duties to be assessed and collected thereon shall be as follows,
  namely:

  On argols, or crude tartar, or wine lees; crude, five per centum ad
  valorem.

  On brandies, or other spirits manufactured or distilled from grain or
  other materials, one dollar and seventy-five cents per proof gallon.

  On still wines, and vermuth, in casks, thirty-five cents per gallon;
  in bottles or jugs, per case of one dozen bottles or jugs containing
  each not more than one quart and more than one pint, or twenty-four
  bottles or jugs containing each not more than one pint, one dollar
  and twenty-five cents per case, and any excess beyond these quantities
  found in such bottles or jugs shall be subject to a duty of four cents
  per pint or fractional part thereof, but no separate or additional duty
  shall be assessed upon the bottles or jugs.

  On paintings in oil or water colors, pastels, pen and ink drawings, and
  statuary, fifteen per centum ad valorem.

  ARTICLE II.

  It is reciprocally agreed on the part of Italy, in consideration of the
  provisions of the foregoing article, that so long as this convention
  shall remain in force the duties to be assessed and collected on the
  following described merchandise, being the product of the soil or
  industry of the United States, imported into Italy shall not exceed the
  rates hereinafter specified, namely:

    Upon                                                lire per quintal.
    cotton seed oil                                            21.50
    fish, pickled or in oil, excluding the tunny,
      preserved in boxes or barrels, sardines and anchovies    15.00
    other fish, preserved                                      25.00
    agricultural machinery                                      9.00
    detached parts of agricultural machinery:
       (1) of cast iron                                        10.00
       (2) of other iron or steel                              11.00
    scientific instruments:
       (a) of copper, bronze, brass, or steel:
           (1) with spy-glasses or microscopes, or
           graduated scales or circles, spy-glasses for
           use on land, monocles, binocles, lenses,
           detached and mounted                                30.00
           (2) not provided with any optical instrument,
           nor with graduated scales or circles                30.00
       (b) of all kinds, in the construction of which
           iron is evidently predominant                       30.00
    dynamo-electrical machines:
       (1) the weight of which exceeds 1000 kilograms          16.00
       (2) weighing 1000 kilograms or less                     25.00
    detached parts of dynamo-electrical machines               25.00
    sewing machines:
       (1) with stands                                         25.00
       (2) without stands                                      30.00
   varnishes, not containing spirits nor mineral oils          20.00

  The following articles shall be admitted free of duty:

    Turpentine oil.
    Natural fertilizers of all kinds.
    Skins, crude, fresh, or dried, not suitable for fur; and fur skins

  ARTICLE III.

  This agreement is subject to the approval of the Italian Parliament.
  When such approval shall have been given, and official notification
  shall have been given to the United States Government of His Majesty's
  ratification, the President shall publish his proclamation, giving full
  effect to the provisions contained in Article I of this agreement. From
  and after the date of such proclamation this agreement shall be in full
  force and effect, and shall continue in force until the expiration of
  the year 1903, and if not denounced by either party one year in advance
  of the expiration of said term shall continue in force until one year
  from the time when one of the high contracting parties shall have given
  notice to the other of its intention to arrest the operation thereof.

  In witness whereof we, the respective Plenipotentiaries, have signed
  this agreement, in duplicate, in the English and Italian texts, and have
  affixed thereunto our respective seals.

  Done at Washington, this 8th day of February, A.D. 1900.

  JOHN A. KASSON. [SEAL.]

  FAVA.           [SEAL.]

And whereas said convention has been duly ratified on the part of His Majesty the King of Italy,
official notice whereof has been received by the President,

Now, therefore, be it known that I, William McKinley, President of the United States of America,
acting under the authority conferred by said act of Congress, do hereby suspend during the
continuance in force of said agreement the imposition and collection of the duties mentioned
in the first section of said act and heretofore collected upon the specified articles of Italian
origin as described in said agreement, and do declare in place thereof the rates of duty provided
in the third section of said act as recited in said agreement to be in full force and effect
from and after the date of this Proclamation, of which the officers and citizens of the United
States will take due notice.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the tract of land
reserved by this proclamation.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Crow Creek Forest Reserve.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

To the People of the United States:

In the fullness of years and honors, John Sherman, lately Secretary of State, has passed away.

Few among our citizens have risen to greater or more deserved eminence in the national councils
than he. The story of his public life and services is as it were the history of the country
for half a century. In the Congress of the United States he ranked among the foremost in the
House, and later in the Senate. He was twice a member of the Executive Cabinet, first as Secretary
of the Treasury, and afterwards as Secretary of State. Whether in debate during the dark hours
of our civil war, or as the director of the country's finances during the period of rehabilitation,
or as a trusted councilor in framing the nation's laws for over forty years, or as the exponent
of its foreign policy, his course was ever marked by devotion to the best interests of his
beloved land, and by able and conscientious effort to uphold its dignity and honor. His countrymen
will long revere his memory and see in him a type of the patriotism, the uprightness and the
zeal that go to molding and strengthening a nation.

In fitting expression of the sense of bereavement that afflicts the Republic, I direct that
on the day of the funeral the Executive Offices of the United States display the national flag
at half mast and that the Representatives of the United States in foreign countries shall pay
in like manner appropriate tribute to the illustrious dead for a period of ten days.

[SEAL.]

Done at the city of Washington, this 22d day of October, A.D. 1900, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the one hundred and twenty-fifth.

WILLIAM McKINLEY. The works of religion and charity have everywhere been manifest. Our country
through all its extent has been blessed with abundant harvests. Labor and the great industries
of the people have prospered beyond all precedent. Our commerce has spread over the world.
Our power and influence in the cause of freedom and enlightenment have extended over distant
seas and lands. The lives of our official representatives and many of our people in China have
been marvelously preserved. We have been generally exempt from pestilence and other great calamities;
and even the tragic visitation which overwhelmed the city of Galveston made evident the sentiments
of sympathy and Christian charity by virtue of which we are one united people.

Now, therefore, I, William McKinley, President of the United States, do hereby appoint and
set apart Thursday, the 20th of November next, to be observed by all the people of the United
States, at home or abroad, as a day of thanksgiving and praise to Him who holds the nations
in the hollow of His hand. I recommend that they gather in their several places of worship
and devoutly give Him thanks for the prosperity wherewith He has endowed us, for seed-time
and harvest, for the valor, devotion and humanity of our armies and navies, and for all His
benefits to us as individuals and as a nation; and that they humbly pray for the continuance
of His Divine favor, for concord and amity with other nations, and for righteousness and peace
in all our ways.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

A PROCLAMATION.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, March 14, 1901.

To the People of the United States:

Benjamin Harrison, President of the United States from 1889 to 1893, died yesterday at 4:45
P.M., at his home in Indianapolis. In his death the country has been deprived of one of its
greatest citizens. A brilliant soldier in his young manhood, he gained fame and rapid advancement
by his energy and valor. As a lawyer he rose to be a leader of the bar. In the Senate he at
once took and retained high rank as an orator and legislator; and in the high office of President
he displayed extraordinary gifts as administrator and statesman. In public and in private life
he set a shining example for his countrymen.

[SEAL.]

Done at the city of Washington this 14th day of March, A.D. 1901, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the one hundred and twenty-fifth.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Now, therefore, I, William McKinley, President of the United States, by virtue of the power
vested in me by the aforesaid act of Congress, approved June 4th, 1897, do hereby make known
and proclaim that there are hereby withdrawn and excluded from the aforesaid Washington Forest
Reserve and restored to the public domain all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land
particularly described as follows to wit:

The southwest quarter of section three (3), sections four (4) and five (5), the east half of
section nine (9), the west half of section ten (10), the south half of section thirteen (13),
the south half of section fourteen (14), section fifteen (15), the north half and southeast
quarter of section twenty-three (23), sections twenty-four (24), twenty-five (25) and thirty-six
(36), all in township thirty-five (35) north, range twenty (20) east, Willamette Meridian;
what will be when surveyed the south half of township thirty-two (32) north, range twenty-one
(21) east; what will be when surveyed the north half of township thirty-three (33) north, range
twenty-one (21) east; townships thirty-four (34) and thirty-five (35) north, range twenty-one
(21) east; townships thirty-one (31) to thirty-four (34), both inclusive, range twenty-two
(22) east; what will be when surveyed sections thirty (30), thirty-one (31) and thirty-two
(32) of township thirty-five (35) north, range twenty-two (22) east.

That the lands hereby restored to the public domain shall be open to settlement from date hereof,
but shall not be subject to entry, filing or selection until after ninety days' notice by such
publication as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.

WILLIAM McKINLEY. (U.S. Statutes at Large, vol. 26, page 712), selected for the said Capitan
Grande band or village of Indians certain tracts of land intentionally omitted and excluded
from such selection the said sections 8 and 9, township 15 south, range 2 east, and reported
that the tracts thus omitted included the lands upon which were found the claims of Arthur
F. Head and others; and

Whereas, the report and recommendations of the said Commission were approved by Executive Order
dated December 29, 1891, which order also directed that "All of the lands mentioned in said
report are hereby withdrawn from settlement and entry until patents shall have issued for said
selected reservations and until the recommendations of said Commission shall be fully executed,
and, by the proclamation of the President of the United States, the lands or any part thereof
shall be restored to the public domain;" and

Whereas a patent was issued March 10, 1894, to the said Indians for the lands selected by the
Commission as aforesaid and which patent also excluded the said sections 8 and 9, township
15 south, range 2 east; and

Whereas it appears that the said Arthur F. Head cannot make the requisite filings on the land
occupied by him until it shall have been formally restored to the public domain, and that no
good reason appears to exist for the further reservation of the said sections for the said
band of Indians;

Now, therefore, I, William McKinley, President of the United States, by virtue of the power
in me vested, do hereby declare and make known that the Executive Orders dated December 27,
1875, and December 29, 1891, are so far modified as to except from their provisions sections
8 and 9 of township 15 south, range 2 east, San Bernardino meridian, and the said sections
are hereby restored to the public domain.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATION.

Whereas the act of Congress entitled "An act to ratify and confirm an agreement with the Muscogee
or Creek tribe of Indians and for other purposes," approved on the 1st day of March, 1901,
contains a provision as follows:

  That the agreement negotiated between the Commission to the Five
  Civilized Tribes and the Muscogee or Creek tribe of Indians, at the
  city of Washington on the 8th day of March, nineteen hundred, as
  herein amended, is hereby accepted, ratified, and confirmed, and the
  same shall be of full force and effect when ratified by the Creek
  national council. The principal chief, as soon as practicable after
  the ratification of this agreement by Congress, shall call an extra
  session of the Creek national council and lay before it this agreement
  and the act of Congress ratifying it, and if the agreement be ratified
  by said council, as provided in the constitution of said nation, he
  shall transmit to the President of the United States the act of council
  ratifying the agreement, and the President of the United States shall
  thereupon issue his proclamation declaring the same duly ratified, and
  that all the provisions of this agreement have become law according to
  the terms thereof: Provided, That such ratification by the Creek
  national council shall be made within ninety days from the approval of
  this act by the President of the United States,

And whereas the principal chief of the said tribe has transmitted to me an act of the Creek
national council entitled "An act to ratify and confirm an agreement between the United States
and the Muscogee Nation of Indians of the Indian Territory" approved the 25th day of May, 1901,
which contains a provision as follows:

  That said agreement, amended, ratified and confirmed by the Congress of
  the United States, as set forth in said act of Congress approved March
  1, 1901, is hereby accepted, ratified and confirmed on the part of the
  Muscogee Nation and on the part of the Muscogee or Creek tribe of
  Indians constituting said Nation, as provided in said act of Congress
  and as provided in the Constitution of said Nation, and the Principal
  Chief is hereby authorized to transmit this act of the National Council
  ratifying said agreement to the President of the United States as
  provided in said act of Congress.

And whereas paragraph thirty-six of said agreement contains a provision as follows:

  This provision shall not take effect until after it shall have been
  separately and specifically approved by the Creek national council and
  by the Seminole general council; and if not approved by either, it shall
  fail altogether, and be eliminated from this agreement without impairing
  any other of its provisions.

And whereas there has been presented to me an act of the Creek national council entitled "An
act to disapprove certain provisions, relating to Seminole citizens, in the agreement between
the Muscogee Nation and the United States, ratified by Congress March 1, 1901," approved the
25th day of May, 1901, by which the provisions of said paragraph thirty-six are specifically
disapproved:

Now, therefore, I, William McKinley, President of the United States, do hereby declare said
agreement, except paragraph thirty-six thereof, duly ratified and that all the provisions thereof,
except said paragraph thirty-six which failed of ratification by the Creek national council,
became law according to the terms thereof upon the 25th day of May, 1901.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the tract of land
reserved by this proclamation.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as the Wichita Forest Reserve.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

         *       *       *       *       *

  That the laws relating to the mineral lands of the United States are
  hereby extended over the lands ceded by the foregoing agreement.

         *       *       *       *       *

  That should any of said lands allotted to said Indians, or opened to
  settlement under this act, contain valuable mineral deposits, such
  mineral deposits shall be open to location and entry, under the existing
  mining laws of the United States, upon the passage of this act, and the
  mineral laws of the United States are hereby extended over said lands.

And whereas, by the act of Congress approved January 4, 1901 (31 Stat., 727), the Secretary
of the Interior was authorized to extend, for a period not exceeding eight months from December
6, 1900, the time for making allotments to the Comanche, Kiowa, and Apache Indians and opening
to settlement the lands so ceded by them;

And whereas, in pursuance of the act of Congress approved March 3, 1901 (31 Stat., 1093), the
Secretary of the Interior has regularly subdivided the lands so as aforesaid respectively ceded
to the United States by the Wichita and affiliated bands of Indians and the Comanche, Kiowa,
and Apache tribes of Indians into counties, attaching portions thereof to adjoining counties
in the Territory of Oklahoma, has regularly designated the place for the county seat of each
new county, has regularly set aside and reserved at such county seat land for a townsite to
be disposed of in the manner provided by the act of Congress last named, and has regularly
caused to be surveyed, subdivided, and platted the lands so set aside and reserved for disposition
as such townsites;

And whereas, by the act of Congress last named, it is provided:

  The lands to be opened to settlement and entry under the acts of
  Congress ratifying said agreements respectively shall be so opened by
  proclamation of the President, and to avoid the contests and conflicting
  claims which have heretofore resulted from opening similar public lands
  to settlement and entry, the President's proclamation shall prescribe
  the manner in which these lands may be settled upon, occupied, and
  entered by persons entitled thereto under the acts ratifying said
  agreements, respectively; and no person shall be permitted to settle
  upon, occupy, or enter any of said lands except as prescribed in such
  proclamation until after the expiration of sixty days from the time when
  the same are opened to settlement and entry.

And whereas, by the act of Congress last named the President was authorized to establish two
additional United States land districts and land offices in the Territory of Oklahoma to include
the lands so ceded as aforesaid, which land districts and land offices have been established
by an order of even date herewith;

And whereas all of the conditions required by law to be performed prior to the opening of said
tracts of land to settlement and entry have been, as I hereby declare, duly performed;

Now, therefore, I, William McKinley, President of the United States of America, by virtue of
the power vested in me by law, do hereby declare and make known that all of the lands so as
aforesaid ceded by the Wichita and affiliated bands of Indians, and the Comanche, Kiowa, and
Apache tribes of Indians, respectively, saving and excepting sections sixteen, thirty-six,
thirteen, and thirty-three in each township, and all lands located or selected by the Territory
of Oklahoma as indemnity school or educational lands, and saving and excepting all lands allotted
in severalty to individual Indians, and saving and excepting all lands allotted and confirmed
to religious societies and other organizations, and saving and excepting the lands selected
and set aside as grazing lands for the use in common for said Comanche, Kiowa, and Apache tribes
of Indians, and saving and excepting the lands set aside and reserved at each of said county
seats for disposition as townsites, and saving and excepting the lands now used, occupied,
or set apart for military, agency, school, school farm, religious, Indian cemetery, wood reserve,
forest reserve, or other public uses, will, on the 6th day of August, 1901, at 9 o'clock A.M.,
in the manner herein prescribed and not otherwise, be opened to entry and settlement and to
disposition under the general provisions of the homestead and townsite laws of the United States.

Commencing at 9 o'clock A.M., Wednesday, July 10, 1901, and ending at 6 o'clock P.M., Friday,
July 26, 1901, a registration will be had at the United States land offices at El Reno and
Lawton, in the Territory of Oklahoma (the office at Lawton to occupy provisional quarters in
the immediate vicinity of Fort Sill, Oklahoma Territory, until suitable quarters can be provided
at Lawton), for the purpose of ascertaining what persons desire to enter, settle upon, and
acquire title to any of said lands under the homestead law and of ascertaining their qualifications
so to do. The registration at each office will be for both land districts, but at the time
of registration each applicant will be required to elect and state in which district he desires
to make entry. To obtain registration each applicant will be required to show himself duly
qualified to make homestead entry of these lands under existing laws and to give the registering
officer such appropriate matters of description and identity as will protect the applicant
and the government against any attempted impersonation. Registration cannot be effected through
the use of the mails or the employment of an agent, excepting that honorably discharged soldiers
and sailors entitled to the benefits of section 2304 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, as amended by the act of Congress approved March 1, 1901 (31 Stat., 847), may present
their applications for registration and due proofs of their qualifications through an agent
of their own selection, but no person will be permitted to act as agent for more than one such
soldier or sailor. No person will be permitted to register more than once or in any other than
his true name. Each applicant who shows himself duly qualified will be registered and given
a non-transferable certificate to that effect, which will entitle him to go upon and examine
the lands to be opened hereunder in the land district in which he elects to make his entry;
but the only purpose for which he may go upon and examine said lands is that of enabling him
later on, as herein provided, to understandingly select the lands for which he will make entry.
No one will be permitted to make settlement upon any of said lands in advance of the opening
herein provided for, and during the first sixty days following said opening no one but registered
applicants will be permitted to make homestead settlement upon any of said lands, and then
only in pursuance of a homestead entry duly allowed by the local land officers or of a soldier's
declaratory statement duly accepted by such officers.

The order in which, during the first sixty days following the opening, the registered applicants
will be permitted to make homestead entry of the lands opened hereunder, will be determined
by drawings for both the El Reno and Lawton districts publicly held at the United States land
office at El Reno, Oklahoma, commencing at 9 o'clock A.M., Monday, July 29, 1901, and continuing
for such period as may be necessary to complete the same. The drawings will be had under the
supervision and immediate observation of a committee of three persons whose integrity is such
as to make their control of the drawing a guaranty of its fairness. The members of this committee
will be appointed by the Secretary of the Interior, who will prescribe suitable compensation
for their services. Preparatory to these drawings the registration officers will, at the time
of registering each applicant who shows himself duly qualified, make out a card, which must
be signed by the applicant, stating the land district in which he desires to make homestead
entry, and giving such a description of the applicant as will enable the local land officers
to thereafter identify him. This card will be at once sealed in a separate envelope, which
will bear no other distinguishing label or mark than such as may be necessary to show that
it is to go into the drawing for the land district in which the applicant desires to make entry.
These envelopes will be separated according to land districts and will be carefully preserved
and remain sealed until opened in the course of the drawing as herein provided. When the registration
is completed all of these sealed envelopes will be brought together at the place of drawing
and turned over to the committee in charge of the drawing, who, in such manner as in their
judgment will be attended with entire fairness and equality of opportunity, shall proceed to
draw out and open the separate envelopes and to give to each enclosed card a number in the
order in which the envelope containing the same is drawn. While the drawings for the two districts
will be separately conducted they will occur as nearly at the same time as is practicable.
The result of the drawing for each district will be certified by the committee to the officers
of the district and will determine the order in which the applicants may make homestead entry
of said lands and settlement thereon.

Notice of the drawings stating the name of each applicant and number assigned to him by the
drawing will be posted each day at the place of drawing, and each applicant will be notified
of his number by a postal-card mailed to him at the address, if any, given by him at the time
of registration. Each applicant should, however, in his own behalf employ such measures as
will insure his obtaining prompt and accurate information of the order in which his application
for homestead entry can be presented as fixed by the drawing. Applications for homestead entry
of said lands during the first sixty days following the opening can be made only by registered
applicants and in the order established by the drawing. At each land office, commencing Tuesday,
August 6, 1901, at 9 o'clock A.M., the applications of those drawing numbers 1 to 125, inclusive,
for that district must be presented and will be considered in their numerical order during
the first day, and the applications of those drawing numbers 126 to 250, inclusive, must be
presented and will be considered in their numerical order during the second day, and so on
at that rate until all of said lands subject to entry under the homestead law, and desired
thereunder, have been entered. If any applicant fails to appear and present his application
for entry when the number assigned to him by the drawing is reached, his right to enter will
be passed until after the other applications assigned for that day have been disposed of, when
he will be given another opportunity to make entry, failing in which he will be deemed to have
abandoned his right to make entry under such drawing. To obtain the allowance of a homestead
entry each applicant must personally present the certificate of registration theretofore issued
to him, together with a regular homestead application and the necessary accompanying proofs,
and with the regular land office fees, but an honorably discharged soldier or sailor may file
his declaratory statement through the agent representing him at the registration. The production
of the certificate of registration will be dispensed with only upon satisfactory proof of its
loss or destruction. If at the time of considering his regular application for entry it appears
that any applicant is disqualified from making homestead entry of these lands his application
will be rejected, notwithstanding his prior registration. If any applicant shall register more
than once hereunder, or in any other than his true name, or shall transfer his registration
certificate he will thereby lose all the benefits of the registration and drawing herein provided
for, and will be precluded from entering or settling upon any of said lands during the first
sixty days following said opening.

Because of the provision in the said act of Congress approved June 6, 1900: "That the settlers
who located on that part of said lands called and known as the 'neutral strip' shall have preference
right for thirty days on the lands upon which they have located and improved," the said lands
in the "neutral strip" shall for the period of thirty days after said opening be subject to
homestead entry and townsite entry only by those who have heretofore located upon and improved
the same, and who are accorded a preference right of entry for thirty days as aforesaid. Persons
entitled to make entry under this preference right will be permitted to do so at any time during
said period of thirty days following the opening without previous registration, and without
regard to the drawing herein provided for, and at the expiration of that period the lands in
said "neutral strip" for which no entry shall have been made will come under the general provisions
of this proclamation.

The intended beneficiaries of the provision in the said acts of Congress, approved, respectively,
March 2, 1895, and June 6, 1900, which authorizes a qualified entryman having lands adjoining
the ceded lands, whose original entry embraced less than 160 acres, to enter so much of the
ceded lands as will make his homestead entry contain in the aggregate not exceeding 160 acres,
may obtain such an extension of his existing entry, without previous registration and without
regard to the drawing herein provided for, only by making appropriate application, accompanied
by the necessary proofs, at the proper new land office at some time prior to the opening herein
provided for.

Any person or persons desiring to found, or to suggest establishing a townsite upon any of
said ceded lands at any point not in the near vicinity of either of the county seats therein
heretofore selected and designated as aforesaid, may, at any time before the opening herein
provided for, file in the proper local land office a written application to that effect describing
by legal subdivisions the lands intended to be affected, and stating fully and under oath the
necessity or propriety of founding or establishing a town at that place. The local officers
will forthwith transmit said petition to the Commissioner of the General Land Office with their
recommendation in the premises. Such Commissioner, if he believes the public interests will
be subserved thereby, will, if the Secretary of the Interior approve thereof, issue an order
withdrawing the lands described in such petition, or any portion thereof, from homestead entry
and settlement and directing that the same be held for the time being for townsite settlement,
entry, and disposition only. In such event the lands so withheld from homestead entry and settlement
will, at the time of said opening and not before, become subject to settlement, entry, and
disposition under the general townsite laws of the United States. None of said ceded lands
will be subject to settlement, entry, or disposition under such general townsite laws except
in the manner herein prescribed until after the expiration of sixty days from the time of said
opening.

Attention is hereby especially called to the fact that under the special provisions of the
said act of Congress approved March 3, 1901, the townsites selected and designated at the county
seats of the new counties into which said lands have been formed cannot be disposed of under
the general townsite laws of the United States, and can only be disposed of in the special
manner provided in said act of Congress, which declares:

  The lands so set apart and designated shall, in advance of the opening,
  be surveyed, subdivided, and platted, under the direction of the
  Secretary of the Interior, into appropriate lots, blocks, streets,
  alleys, and sites for parks or public buildings, so as to make a
  townsite thereof: Provided, That no person shall purchase more than
  one business and one residence lot. Such town lots shall be offered
  and sold at public auction to the highest bidder, under the direction
  of the Secretary of the Interior, at sales to be had at the opening
  and subsequent thereto.

All persons are especially admonished that under the said act of Congress approved March 3,
1901, it is provided that no person shall be permitted to settle upon, occupy, or enter any
of said ceded lands except in the manner prescribed in this proclamation until after the expiration
of sixty days from the time when the same are opened to settlement and entry. After the expiration
of the said period of sixty days, but not before, any of said lands remaining undisposed of
may be settled upon, occupied and entered under the general provisions of the homestead and
townsite laws of the United States in like manner as if the manner of effecting such settlement,
occupancy and entry had not been prescribed herein in obedience to law.

It appearing that there are fences around the pastures into which, for convenience, portions
of the ceded lands have heretofore been divided, and that these fences are of considerable
value and are still the property of the Indian tribes ceding said lands to the United States,
all persons going upon examining, entering or settling upon any of said lands are cautioned
to respect such fences as the property of the Indians and not to destroy, appropriate, or carry
away the same, but to leave them undisturbed so that they may be seasonably removed and preserved
for the benefit of the Indians.

The Secretary of the Interior shall prescribe all needful rules and regulations necessary to
carry into full effect the opening herein provided for.

[SEAL.]

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved
by this proclamation.

That the lands hereby restored to the public domain shall be open to settlement from date hereof,
but shall not be subject to entry, filing, or selection until after ninety days' notice by
such publication as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.

[SEAL.]

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

[CESSATION OF TARIFF--PORTO RICO.]

Whereas, by an act of Congress, approved April 12, 1900, entitled "an Act Temporarily to Provide
Revenues and a Civil Government for Porto Rico and for other Purposes," it was provided that,
"whenever the legislative assembly of Porto Rico shall have enacted and put into operation
a system of local taxation to meet the necessities of the government of Porto Rico, by this
act established, and shall by resolution duly passed so notify the President, he shall make
proclamation thereof, and thereupon all tariff duties on merchandise and articles going into
Porto Rico from the United States or coming into the United States from Porto Rico shall cease,
and from and after such date all such merchandise and articles shall be entered at the several
ports of entry free of duty;" and

Whereas by the same act it was provided, "that as soon as a civil government for Porto Rico
shall have been organized in accordance with the provisions of this act, and notice thereof
shall have been given to the President, he shall make proclamation thereof, and thereafter
all collections of duties and taxes in Porto Rico under the provisions of this act shall be
paid into the treasury of Porto Rico, to be expended as required by law for the government
and benefit thereof, instead of being paid into the Treasury of the United States;" and

Whereas the legislative assembly of Porto Rico has enacted and put into operation a system
of local taxation to meet the necessities of the government of Porto Rico as aforesaid, and
has passed and caused to be communicated to me the following resolution:

  A Joint Resolution of the Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico, notifying
  the President of the United States that the Legislative Assembly of
  Porto Rico has enacted and put into operation a system of local taxation
  to meet the necessities of the Government of Porto Rico, established by
  act of Congress, entitled "An act temporarily to provide revenues and a
  Civil Government for Porto Rico, and for other purposes," duly approved
  April 12th, 1900:

  Be it Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico:

  Whereas: A civil government for Porto Rico has been fully and completely
  organized in accordance with the provisions of an act of Congress
  entitled "An act temporarily to provide revenues and a civil government
  for Porto Rico, and for other purposes," duly approved April 12th, 1900,
  and:

  Whereas: It was provided by the terms of said act of Congress, that
  whenever the Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico shall have enacted and
  put into operation a system of local taxation to meet the necessities
  of the Government of Porto Rico, by the aforesaid act established, and
  shall by resolution duly passed so notify the President, he shall make
  proclamation thereof, and thereupon all tariff duties on merchandise and
  articles going into Porto Rico from the United States, or coming into
  the United States from Porto Rico shall cease, and from and after such
  date all such merchandise and articles shall be entered at the several
  ports of entry free of duty:

  Now therefore: The Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico in extraordinary
  session duly called by the Governor and held at San Juan, the Capital,
  on July 4th, A.D. 1901, acting pursuant to the authority and power in
  it vested by the provisions of the said act of Congress above referred
  to, does hereby notify the President of the United States that by
  virtue of an act of the Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico, entitled,
  "An act to provide revenue for the people of Porto Rico, and for other
  purposes," duly approved January 31st, A.D. 1901, and of other acts
  of the Legislative Assembly duly enacted at the first session of the
  Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico, duly held at San Juan, Porto Rico,
  commencing December 3rd, 1900, and ending January 31st, A.D. 1901, it
  has enacted and put into operation a system of local taxation to meet
  the necessities of the Government of Porto Rico, by the aforesaid act
  of Congress established.

  The Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico hereby directs that a copy
  of this joint resolution be presented to the President of the United
  States, and hereby requests the Governor of Porto Rico to deliver the
  same to the President, to the end that proclamation may be made by him
  according to the provisions of the said act of Congress, and if it
  shall seem wise and proper to the President, that such proclamation may
  issue on the 25th day of July, the said day being a legally established
  holiday in Porto Rico commemorating the anniversary of the coming of
  the American flag to the Island.

  WILLIAM H. HUNT,
  President of the Executive Council.

  MAN. F. ROSSY,
  Speaker of the House of Delegates.

  Approved, July 4th, A.D. 1901.

  CHAS. H. ALLEN,
  Governor.

Now, therefore, I, William McKinley, President of the United States, in pursuance of the provisions
of law above quoted, and upon the foregoing due notification, do hereby issue this my proclamation,
and do declare and make known that a civil government for Porto Rico has been organized in
accordance with the provisions of the said act of Congress;

And I do further declare and make known that the Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico has enacted
and put into operation a system of local taxation to meet the necessities of the government
of Porto Rico.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the tract of land
reserved by this proclamation.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Payson Forest Reserve.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

[SEAL.]

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

EXECUTIVE ORDERS.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, March 28, 1898.

It is hereby ordered that the following described tract of land situate on Kadiak Island, District
of Alaska, be temporarily reserved and set apart as an experiment station for the use of the
Department of Agriculture:

Beginning at a point in the easterly boundary line of the property now occupied by the Russian
Greek Church in the village of Kadiak on Kadiak Island, Alaska; thence southeasterly to the
water front on the Bay of Chiniak; thence following said water front one-half mile northeasterly
to a point; thence northwesterly one-half mile to a point; thence southwesterly one-half mile
to a point; thence southeasterly to a point of beginning, embracing 160 acres of land, more
or less.

Provided that the temporary reservation above described shall not interfere with any prior
rights of the natives or others to land within said reservation.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, July 27, 1898.

It is hereby ordered that the following described land situated on the Yukon River in the District
of Alaska, be and here is reserved and set apart for the uses and purposes of a townsite, said
land to be held subject to the townsite law or laws that are or may become applicable to the
public lands in the District of Alaska, and so long as this reservation remains in force to
be subject to disposition in no other manner whatever, to wit:

A tract of land commencing at a post on the right or north bank of the Yukon River, about one-half
mile below Mayos Landing, marked U.S.M.R.; thence north from said post one mile; thence east
two miles; thence south to the bank of the Yukon River; thence southwesterly along the bank
of said river to the place of beginning, containing two square miles, more or less.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, August 6, 1898.

Paragraph 576 of the Consular Regulations is hereby amended so as to read as follows:

576. Consular Agents will be governed by the foregoing requirements in relation to official
services and will render their quarterly reports in accordance with the prescribed forms to
the principal Consular Officer who will transmit the same to the Auditor for the State and
other Departments.

The amounts which may be found due at the Treasury on account of services rendered to American
vessels and seamen will in all cases be sent by Treasury Warrant to the address of and payable
to the order of the officer entitled thereto.

Forms Nos. 190 and 191 are established in full force and authority as parts of the Consular
Regulations of September 30, 1898.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 31, 1899.

It is hereby ordered that the following described tract of land situate near the north bank
of Cook Inlet, adjoining the town of Kenai on the north, District of Alaska, be and it is hereby
set apart as an agricultural experiment station, subject to any existing legal rights thereto,
it being more particularly described in the field notes of the survey thereof, executed by
C.C. Georgeson, Special Agent in charge of investigations, in August, 1898, under the direction
of the Secretary of Agriculture, and shown on his plat of survey, all bearings being magnetic,
to wit:

Beginning at a point located near the Russian Parsonage and Church, from which the nearest
log barn belonging to the parsonage bears S. 68° 50' E. 65 ft.; the spire of the church bearing
S. 8° E. to the southeast corner of the cemetery fence, bearing north 13° W. 361 ft.; thence
N. 9° W. 5,808 ft. to a point for the northeast corner of the tract; thence S. 9° E. 5,808
feet to a point for the southeast corner of the tract; thence S. 81° W. 2,400 feet to the place
of beginning, containing 320 acres of land, more or less.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, February 3, 1899.

I, William McKinley, President of the United States, by virtue of the authority vested in me
by Sections 3141 and 3142 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, hereby order:

That the counties of Alger, Baraga, Chippewa, Delta, Dickinson, Gogebic, Houghton, Iron, Keweenaw,
Luce, Mackinac, Marquette, Menominee, Ontonagon and Schoolcroft, now a part of the First Internal
Revenue Collection District of Michigan be transferred to and made a part of the Fourth Internal
Revenue Collection District of Michigan.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., April 1, 1899.

Under the Provisions of Section 2060, Revised Statutes, the Headquarters of the new Neech Lake
Indian Agency in Minnesota are hereby ordered to be established on the tracts of land to be
reserved for that purpose and which are known as parts of township 142, range 31 west, 5th
Meridian, as described in the recommendation of the Commission of Indian Affairs, approved
by the Secretary of the Interior.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., April 1, 1899.

It is hereby ordered that the Fort Stanton abandoned military reservation, New Mexico, containing
ten thousand two hundred and forty (10,240) acres, more or less, with the buildings thereon
be, and it is hereby reserved and set apart for the use of the Marine Hospital Service.

Except that the force and effect of this order shall not apply to any lands to which, prior
to the date hereof, valid claims may have been attached under the Homestead or Mineral Land Laws.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., April 1, 1899.

The change in location of the Office of the Humboldt Land District in California from Humboldt
to Eureka is hereby ordered, under the provision of Section 2251 in the Revised Statutes of
the United States.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., April 3, 1899.

It is fitting that in behalf of the Nation, tribute of honor be paid to the memories of the
noble men who lost their lives in their country's service during the late war with Spain.

It is more fitting, inasmuch as in consonance with a spirit of our free institutions, and in
obedience to the most exalted prompting of patriotism, those who were sent to other shores
to do battle for their country's honor, under their country's flag, went freely from every
quarter of our beloved clime; each soldier, each sailor parting from home ties and putting
behind him private interest in the presence of the stern emergency of unsought war with an
alien foe, was an individual type of that devotion of the citizen to the State which makes
our Nation strong in unity and action.

Those who died in other lands left in many homes the undying memories that attend the honored
dead of all ages. It was fitting with the advent of peace, won by their sacrifice, their bodies
should be gathered with tender care and restored to home and country. This has been done with
the dead of Cuba and Puerto Rico. Those of the Philippines still rest where they fell, watched
over by their surviving comrades and mourned with the love of a grateful nation.

The remains of many brought to our shores have been delivered to their families for private
burial, but for others of the brave officers and men who perished, there has been reserved
interment in the ground sacred to the soldiers and sailors, and amid tributes of national memories
they have so well deserved.

I therefore order:

That upon the arrival of the cortege at the National Cemetery at Arlington, all proper military
and naval honors be paid to the dead heroes; that suitable ceremonies shall attend their interment;
that the customary salute of mourning be fired at the cemetery, and that on the same day at
two o'clock P.M., Thursday, the sixth day of April, the National ensign be displayed at half
staff on all public buildings, forts, camps and public vessels of the United States, and that
at twelve o'clock noon of said day all the Departments of the Government at Washington shall
be closed.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., April 6, 1899.

In accordance with the provision of the Act of Congress approved June 4, 1897 (30 stat., 36),
and by virtue of the authority thereby given and on the recommendation of the Secretary of
the Interior, it is hereby ordered that the east half of the northwest quarter and the west
half of the northeast corner of section twenty (20), township ten (10) south, range five (5)
east, Willamette Meridian, Oregon, with the limits of the Cascade Range Forest Reservation,
be restored to the Public Domain after sixty days' notice hereof by publication, as required
by law, these tracts having been found better adapted to agricultural than forest purposes.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., May 6, 1899.

By virtue of the authority vested in me as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United
States, I hereby order and direct that during the maintenance of the Military Government of
the United States in the Island of Puerto Rico and all Islands in the West Indies, east of
the 74th degree west longitude, evacuated by Spain, there are hereby created and shall be maintained
the offices of Auditor of the Islands, one Assistant Auditor for auditing the accounts of the
Department of Customs and one Assistant Auditor for auditing the accounts of the Department
of Postoffices who shall be appointed by the Secretary of War and whose duty shall be to audit
all accounts of the Islands.

There is hereby created and shall be maintained the office of Treasurer of the Islands, which
shall be filled by the appointment thereto of an officer of the regular army of the United
States. The Treasurer of the Islands shall receive and keep all moneys arising from the revenues
of the Islands and shall disburse or transfer the same only upon warrants issued by the Auditor
of the Islands and countersigned by the Governor-General.

All rules and instructions necessary to carry into effect the provisions of Executive Orders
relating to said Islands shall be issued by the Secretary of War.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., May 6, 1899.

By virtue of the authority vested in me as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United
States, I hereby order and direct that during the maintenance of Military Government of the
United States in the Island of Cuba and all Islands in the West Indies, west of the 74th degree
west longitude, evacuated by Spain, there are hereby created and shall be maintained the offices
of the Auditor of the Islands, one Assistant Auditor for auditing the accounts for the Department
of Customs, and one Assistant Auditor for auditing the accounts of the Department of Postoffices
who shall be appointed by the Secretary of War and whose duties shall be to audit all accounts
of the Islands.

There is hereby created and shall be maintained the office of Treasurer of the Islands which
shall be filled by the appointment thereto of an officer of the regular army of the United
States. The Treasurer of the Islands shall receive and keep all moneys arising from the revenues
of the Islands and shall disburse or transfer the same only upon warrants issued by the Auditor
of the Islands and countersigned by the Governor-General.

All rules and instructions necessary to carry into effect the provisions of Executive Orders
relating to said Islands shall be issued by the Secretary of War.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., May 10, 1899.

In accordance with the provisions of Act of Congress approved June 4th, 1897 (30 Stat. 36),
and by virtue of the authority thereby given and on recommendation of the Secretary of the
Interior, it is hereby ordered that Baker Lake and the surrounding lands within half mile of
the shore thereof within the limits of the Washington Forest Reserve, State of Washington,
be and they are hereby withdrawn from the operation of the proclamation dated February 22nd,
1897, creating such reserve are hereby reserved and set apart for the use of the United States
Commission of Fish and Fisheries for the purpose of a Fish Cultural station.

Provided, That the Lake and surrounding land above described shall again become subject to
the operation of the proclamation creating the Washington Forest Reserve whenever the use thereof
for fish cultural purposes shall be abandoned by the United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, May 13, 1899.

In the exercise of the power conferred upon me by the joint resolution of Congress, approved
by the President on July 7, 1898, entitled "Joint Resolution to provide for annexing the Hawaiian
Islands to the United States" the President of the United States hereby directs that the General
Election provided for by the constitution of the Republic of Hawaii to be held on the last
Wednesday in September next shall not be held. All elective officers whose terms of office
shall expire before appropriate legislation shall have been enacted by the Congress of the
United States shall be continued in their offices at the pleasure of the President of the United
States.

[SEAL.]

In witness whereof I have caused the seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., May 23, 1899.

To the Heads of the Executive Departments and the Public Printer:

It is hereby ordered that upon Wednesday, the 24th instant, the employees of the executive
departments and the government printing office shall be excused from duty at 12:00 o'clock
noon to enable them to participate in the Civic parade and other exercises of the Peace Jubilee
on that day.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, June 10, 1899.

Consular court fees and fines imposed and collected by consular courts are hereby declared
to be official. They are to be used to defer the expenses of consular courts, and detailed
accounts of receipts and expenditures are to be rendered to the Secretary of State on the 30th
of June of each year. Any surplus remaining at the end of the year after the expenses of the
courts have been paid is to be turned into the Treasury.

The portions of the Executive Order of July 29, 1897, and the consular regulations in conflict
with this order are hereby amended.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., June 16, 1899.

Officers of the Customs in the Islands of Cuba may authorize the clearance under a permit for
foreign ports, ports of the United States of vessels owned prior to June 1st, 1899 by residents
of Cuba and owned at the time of clearance by citizens of Cuba under the signal and coast permit
of Cuba. Such vessels may carry the American flag above the distinctive signal for the purpose
of indicating that the Government of the United States pursuant to treaty has assumed and will
discharge the obligations that may under International law result from the fact of the occupation
of Cuba for the protection of life and property.

In granting such clearance under a permit vessels of the customs will advise masters or owners
that clearance under permit and the use of the flag of the United States hereby authorized
do not confer upon such vessels any rights and privileges which are conferred upon vessels
of the United States by the status of treaties of the United States. The rights and privileges
of such a vessel as to enter clearance dues, charges, etc., in foreign ports and in ports of
the United States will be determined by the laws of the country in which the port may be situated.

Such vessel upon entering into a port of the United States would be subject to the provisions
of Sections 2497, 4219 and 4225 of the Revised Statutes and such other laws as may be applicable.

The form and manner of the issuance of permits provided for in this paragraph shall be prescribed
by the Secretary of War.

Tariff Circular No. 71, dated Washington, May 25th, 1899, is hereby rescinded.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., June 27, 1899.

By virtue of the authority vested in me as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy, I hereby
order and direct that during the maintenance of the Military Government of the United States
in the Island of Cuba and all islands of the West Indies west of the 74th degree, west longitude,
evacuated by Spain, there are hereby created and shall be maintained, in addition to the office
created by executive order of May 8, 1899, the office of Assistant Auditor for auditing the
accounts of the departments of Internal Revenue and one Assistant Treasurer in the office of
the Treasurer of the islands, who shall be appointed by the Secretary of War.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., July 3, 1899.

1. Officers of the Customs in the Island of Puerto Rico, ceded to the United States by Spain,
may issue a certificate of protection, entitling a vessel to which it is issued to the protection
and flag of the United States on the high seas and in all ports, if the vessel is owned by:

  a. A citizen of the United States residing in Puerto Rico.

  b. A native inhabitant of Puerto Rico upon taking oath of
  allegiance to the United States.

  c. Resident of Puerto Rico before April 11, 1899, hitherto a
  subject of Spain, upon abjuring his allegiance to the crown of Spain and
  taking the oath of allegiance to the United States.

2. The master and the watch officers of a vessel to which a certificate of protection is issued
shall be citizens of the United States or shall take the oath of allegiance to the United States,
providing that the general commanding the forces of the United States in Puerto Rico may in
his discretion in special cases waive these requirements in whole or in part.

3. Such certificate of protection shall entitle vessel to the same privileges and subject it
to the same disabilities as are prescribed in Article XX of the Consular Regulations of 1896
for American or foreign built vessels transferred abroad to citizens of the United States.

4. The form and manner of the issue of certificates of protection provided for in this order
shall be prescribed by the Secretary of War.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., July 3, 1899.

1. Officers of the Customs in the Philippine Islands, ceded to the United States by Spain,
may issue a certificate of protection entitling the vessel to which it is issued to the protection
and flag of the United States on the High Seas and in all ports, if the vessel is owned by:

  a. A citizen of the United States residing in the Philippine Islands.

  b. A native inhabitant of the Philippine Islands upon taking the
  oath of allegiance to the United States.

  c. Residents of the Philippine Islands before April 11th, 1899
  hitherto a subject of Spain, upon abjuring his allegiance to the Crown
  of Spain and taking the oath of allegiance to the United States.

2. The master and watch officer of a vessel to which a certificate of Protection is issued
shall be citizens of the United States or shall take the oath of allegiance to the United States,
providing that the General commanding the forces of the United States in Philippine Islands
may, in his discretion in special cases, waive this requirement in whole or in part.

3. Such certificate of protection shall entitle the vessel to the same privileges and subject
it to the same disabilities as are prescribed in Article XX of the Consular Regulations of
1896 for American or foreign vessels transferred abroad to citizens of the United States.

4. The form and manner of the issue of certificates of protection provided for in this order
shall be prescribed by the Secretary of War.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., July 24, 1899.

You are hereby directed to take charge of this expenditure for the purpose of enforcing the
above provisions, and you are directed to employ for that purpose the Marine Hospital Service
and to provide such other means as are necessary for the purpose aforesaid and to carry out
such rules and regulations as may have been or shall be made by you in conformity therewith.

You will carefully supervise and examine all expenditures made in executing the aforesaid law
and submit to me from time to time reports of such expenditures and statements of the work done.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., August 17, 1899.

To the People of Cuba:

The disorganized condition of your island, resulting from the war and the absence of any generally
recognized authority aside from the temporary Military Control of the United States, has made
it necessary that the United States should follow the restoration of order and peaceful industry
by giving its assistance and supervision to the successive steps by which you will proceed
to the establishment of an effective system of self-government.

As a preliminary step in the performance of this duty I have directed that a census of the
people of Cuba be taken, and have appointed competent and disinterested citizens of Cuba as
Enumerators and Supervisors.

It is important for the proper arrangement of your new Government that the information sought
shall be fully and accurately given and I request that by every means in your power you aid
the officers appointed in the performance of their duties.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., September 2, 1899.

To the Secretary of the Treasury:

SIR:--You are directed to transfer an additional sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) from
the appropriation made by the Joint Resolution approved July 7, 1898, entitled, "Joint Resolution
to provide for the annexation of the Hawaiian Islands to the United States," to be expended
at the discretion of the Executive and for the purpose of carrying that Joint Resolution into
effect for the expenditure and enforcement of the Chinese Exclusion Laws in the Hawaiian Islands
under the clause in said Resolution restricting the emigration of the Chinese to the Islands.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., September 11, 1899.

Hon. JOHN HAY,
  Secretary of State

You will notify the President of Hawaii that the Government of Hawaii has no power to make
any sale or dispose of the public lands in the Islands. That all proceedings taken or pending
for such sale or disposition should be discontinued and that if any sales or agreements for
sale have been made since the adoption of the Resolution of Annexation the purchasers should
be notified that the same are null and void and any consideration paid to the legal authorities
on account thereof should be refunded.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., September 18, 1899.

In the exercise of the power conferred upon me by the Joint Resolution of Congress, approved
by the President on July 7th, 1898, entitled "Joint Resolution to provide for annexing the
Hawaiian Islands to the United States," the President of the United States hereby directs that
the issue of Registers to vessels by the Authorities of Hawaii entitling such vessels to all
the rights and privileges of Hawaiian vessels in the ports of Nations or upon the High Seas,
shall hereafter cease.

[SEAL.]

In witness whereof I have caused the seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., September 29, 1899.

It is hereby ordered that the several Executive Departments, the Government Printing Office
and the Navy Yard and Station at Washington be closed on Tuesday, October 3rd, to enable the
employees to participate in the ceremonies attending the Reception of Admiral Dewey, United
States Navy, and the presentation of the Sword of Honor to him, as authorized by a Joint Resolution
of Congress, approved June 3rd, 1899.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., November 4, 1899.

In furtherance of interchange between those absent in the service of their country and their
families at home, it is hereby ordered that packages and parcels of mailable matter and containing
only articles desired as gifts and souvenirs, and so marked, and with no commercial purpose,
and not for sale, from Officers, Soldiers and Sailors serving in the Army and Navy and other
persons employed in the Civil Service of the United States, in Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, Philippine
Islands and Cuba addressed to members of their families in the United States, or packages of
the same personal character addressed from the United States to Officers, Soldiers, Sailors
and others in the Public Service in said Islands may be sent through the mails, subject only
to the domestic postal regulations of the United States.

The details of the execution of this order with all necessary safeguards will devolve on the
Secretary of War and Postmaster-General.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., November 10, 1899.

In accordance with the law that prescribes that the Army and Navy General Hospital at Hot Springs,
Ark., "shall be subject to such rules, regulations, and restrictions as shall be provided by
the President of the United States," the following amendment of the rules and regulations provided
for its government in Executive Order of August 25, 1892, is authorized:

Enlisted men on the active list while under treatment or on duty in the hospital shall have
the usual allowance of rations commuted at the rate of not to exceed forty cents (40 c.) per
day for enlisted men in the army and thirty cents (30 c.) per day for enlisted men in the navy,
to be paid to the Senior Medical Officer by the proper officers of the War and Navy Departments
upon the receipt of monthly statements of accounts duly certified by the Surgeon-General of
the Army.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, December 1, 1899.

To all to whom these presents shall come; greeting:

Know ye, that reposing special trust and confidence in the integrity, prudence, and ability
of John Hay, Secretary of State of the United States, I have invested him with full and all
manner of power and authority, for me and in the name of the United States, to meet and confer
with any person or persons duly authorized by the Government of his Imperial Majesty the German
Emperor, King of Prussia, and the Government of her Britannic Majesty being entrusted with
like power and authority, and with them to negotiate, conclude, and sign a convention to adjust
amicably the questions which have arisen between the three Governments in respect to the Samoan
group of islands, the same to be transmitted to the President of the United States for his
ratification by and with the advice and consent of the Cabinet thereof.

In testimony whereof I have caused the seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed.

[SEAL.]

Given under my hand at the city of Washington, the 1st day of December, in the year of our
Lord 1899, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-third.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

By the President:
  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., January 3, 1900.

To prevent the introduction of epidemic diseases, it is ordered that provisions of the act
of Congress, approved February 15, 1893, entitled, "An act granting additional quarantine powers
and imposing additional duties upon the Marine Hospital Service," and all rules and regulations
heretofore or hereafter prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury under that act are to be
given full force and effect in the Philippine Islands in so far as they are applicable, and
the following additional rules and regulations are hereby promulgated:

The examination in ports of the Philippine Islands of incoming and outgoing vessels, and the
necessary surveillance over their sanitary condition as well as of cargo, officers, crew and
all personal effects is vested in and will be conducted by the Marine Hospital Service, and
Medical Officers of that service will be detailed by the Secretary of the Treasury as Quarantine
Officers at Ports of Manila and Iloilo immediately and at other ports in the Philippine Islands
as soon as practicable or necessary.

Quarantine Officers shall have authority over incoming vessels, their wharfage and anchorage
in so far as it is necessary for the proper enforcement of the quarantine regulations, including
vessels of the Army Transport Service and non-combatant vessels of the Navy.

Collectors of Customs at ports of entry will not permit entry without quarantine certificates.

Any vessel leaving any port in the Philippine Islands for any port in the United States or
its Dependencies shall obtain a bill of health from the quarantine officer when such officer
is on duty, said bill of health to correspond to the Consular Bill of Health now required by
Treasury Regulations, and the bill of health shall not be given to the outgoing vessel unless
all quarantine regulations have been complied with. At ports where no medical officer is detailed,
bills of health will be signed by the Collector of Customs or other officers to whom such duty
has been regularly delegated. Special regulations relating to the bills of health to be obtained
by vessels of the United States Navy will be promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury.

The Medical Officer detailed under this order as Quarantine Officer at the Port of Manila shall
be the Chief Quarantine Officer for the Philippine Islands. It shall be his duty to make appointments
and removals from the service in the Philippines (subject to the approval of the Secretary
of the Treasury), and shall authorize necessary expenditures under such regulations as the
Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe.

The regulations for the government of the Marine Hospital Service shall, so far as practicable,
have force and effect in the management of the Quarantine service in the Philippine Islands.

The expenses of the Quarantine service will be charged against the revenues of the islands,
and a sum not to exceed three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) in each fiscal year is
hereby set aside from the revenues collected in said islands for this purpose. The expenses
shall be paid therefrom upon a certificate of a detailed quarantine officer and upon the approval
of the Chief Officer for the Philippine Islands.

The Chief Quarantine Officer shall render a report on the last day of each month to the supervising
Surgeon General in the Marine Hospital Service, who will issue to him necessary instructions.

The Epidemic Fund will be reimbursed from the revenues of the islands for the cost of this
undertaking, plans and materials ordered to be forwarded to the islands prior to the date of
this order.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., January 5, 1900.

By virtue of the authority vested in me by joint resolution of the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States accepting and confirming the cession of the Hawaiian Islands to the United
States, it is hereby ordered and directed that out of the Government Reservation lying to the
eastward of the Puowaina or Ruralhouse Hill in the Island of Ouhu, Hawaiian Islands, seven
acres, more or less as hereinafter described and located, shall be set apart for the use of
the United States Treasury Department as a site for a United States Marine Hospital for the
port of Honolulu. This site shall consist of the seven acres situated north of the Makiki cemetery
and bounded on the north and east by the sinuosities of the Punch Bowl road; on the south by
a line projecting eastward from the powder magazine to intersect Punch Bowl road, this line
being the southern boundary of the Government Reservation at that point; and on the west by
an arbitrary north and south line drawn so as to leave seven (7) acres within this designated
tract.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., January 8, 1900.

It is hereby ordered that the tract of country lying west of the Navajo and Moqui Reservations,
in the Territory of Arizona, embraced within the following described boundaries, viz: Beginning
at the southwest corner of the Moqui Reservation and running due west to the Little Colorado
River, thence down that stream to the Grand Canyon Forest Reservation, thence north on the
line of that reserve to the northeast corner thereof, thence west to the Colorado River, thence
up that stream to the Navajo Indian Reservation, be and the same is hereby withdrawn from sale
and settlement until further order.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., January 19, 1900.

In accordance with the law that prescribes that the Army and Navy General Hospital at Hot Springs,
Ark., shall be subject to such rules, regulations and restrictions as shall be provided by
the President of the United States the following amendment of the rules and regulations providing
for its Government and Executive Order of August 25th, 1892 is authorized: Enlisted men of
the Army and Navy and Marine Corps on the retired list and honorably discharged soldiers and
sailors of the Regular and Volunteer Army and Navy of the United States, shall pay for substance
at the rate of 40 cents per day.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., February 12, 1900.

Authority is hereby granted for the transfer of the sum of four hundred thousand, seven hundred
and seventy-six dollars and sixty-five cents ($400,776.65) from the appropriation "Emergency
Fund, War Department" act of March 13th, 1899, to the appropriation "Substance of the Army
1900" in accordance with the request of the Acting Commissary General of Subsistence which
is approved by the Secretary of War.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, March 7, 1900.

It is hereby ordered that the Executive Order of June 8, 1866, reserving for light-house purposes
among other lands a tract described as "twenty (20) acres at a cape about midway between Destruction
Island and Flattery Rocks, falling within unsurveyed lands as laid down in blue shade upon
diagram number 3 herewith," in the Territory of Washington, be, and the same is, hereby canceled
so far as it relates to the above described tract, and it is hereby ordered that in lieu thereof,
lot one (1) section six (6), township twenty-eight (28) north, range fifteen (15) west, Willamette
Meridian, Washington, containing, according to the official plat on file in the General Land
Office, approved May 29, 1882, 3.25 acres, be, and it is, hereby reserved for light-house purposes.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, March 20, 1900.

It is hereby ordered that the Executive Order of September 11, 1854, reserving for light-house
purposes among other lands the tract at Cape Shoalwater, Territory of Washington, shaded blue
on the diagram accompanying the order, be, and it is, hereby canceled so far as it relates
to the tract above described.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, March 21, 1900.

The Secretary of the Navy is hereby directed to transfer to the Secretary of War for use in
the transport service of the War Department the vessels Badger and Resolute, purchased by the
Navy Department from the funds allotted from the emergency appropriation, national defense,
act of March 8, 1898, at a cost of $842,000, these vessels being no longer required in the
service of the navy.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, May 1, 1900.

The Collector of Customs of Puerto Rico will pay over to the Treasurer of Puerto Rico the net
proceeds of the collections made by him under the provisions of the act of Congress approved
April 12, 1900, entitled "An act temporarily to provide revenues and a Civil Government for
Puerto Rico, and for other purposes," under such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury
may prescribe.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, May 14, 1900.

It is hereby ordered that the NW 1/4 of section 15, in township 23 north, of range 13 west,
Gila and Salt River Base, and principal meridian in Arizona, conveyed to the United States
by quit claim deed of the Santa Fe Pacific Railroad Company, dated September 12, 1899, be and
the same is hereby set apart, subject to certain exceptions, reservations, and conditions made
by said company, as set forth in the deed aforesaid, for Indian school purposes, the Hualapai
Indians as an addition to section 10 of the township and range above mentioned, set aside by
executive order dated December 22, 1898, and designated therein as the "Hualapai Indian School
Reserve."

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, May 26, 1900.

It is hereby ordered that Section 29, Section 30; the N 1/2, the SW 1/4, the N 1/2 of the SE
1/4, and the SE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 of Section 31, and Section 32, Township 13, south, Range
one (1) east, Montana, be and they are hereby reserved and set apart for the use of the United
States Fish Commission of Fish and Fisheries for the purposes of a fish cultural station.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, May 26, 1900.

Under authority of Section 3648 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, permission is
hereby given that needful advances of money be made of moneys appropriated for the light-house
establishment to the officers of the Army and Navy acting as Engineers or Inspectors, as Assistants
to Engineers or Inspectors of the third light-house district for disbursement in carrying on
the Puerto Rican light-house service.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, June 12, 1900.

It is hereby ordered that fractional section 11, township 5 south, range 14 west, Florida,
be and it is hereby reserved and set apart for light-house purposes.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, June 22, 1900.

Whereas by the seventy-third section of an act entitled "An act to provide a government for
the Territory of Hawaii," approved April 30, 1900, it was, among other things provided as follows:
"That, subject to the approval of the President, all sales, grants, leases, and other dispositions
of the public domain and agreements concerning the same, and all franchises granted by the
Hawaiian government in conformity with the laws of Hawaii between the 7th day of July, 1898,
and the 28th day of September, 1899, are hereby ratified and confirmed;" and

Whereas it appears by the certificate of Sanford B. Dole, President of the Republic of Hawaii,
which bears date the 23d day of May, A.D., 1900, that the Hilo Railroad Company organized for
the purpose of building and operating a Railroad or Railroads between and through the districts
of Hilo Puna Hamakua, Kohala, Kona, and Kau, on the Island of Hawaii, Hawaiian Islands, was
incorporated on the 28th day of March, A.D., 1899, under a charter of incorporation, a copy
whereof is attached to said certificate; and that said incorporating and granting of said charter
of incorporation were made in conformity with the general incorporating acts of the Republic
of Hawaii, and that the granting of the franchise conferred thereby and all acts and proceedings
contained in the premises were done and taken in conformity with the laws of the Republic of
Hawaii;

Now, therefore, in conformity with the provision of the act aforesaid, the said franchise granted
by the Hawaiian government to the Hilo Railroad Company is hereby approved.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, June 27, 1900.

On and after the first day of July, 1900, the classification and pay of the rating of electrician
shall be as follows, but this order shall not reduce the pay of any enlisted man during his
present enlistment below the pay at which he was enlisted, or which he is now receiving:

                               per month.
  Electrician, third class       $30.00
  Electrician, 2d class           40.00
  Electrician, 1st class          50.00
  Chief Electrician               60.00

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, June 29, 1900.

On and after July 15, 1900, there shall be detailed on the staff of the Military Governor of
the Island of Cuba as Chief of the Quarantine Service established by Executive Order January
17, 1899, a commissioned officer of the Marine Hospital service, who shall on the first day
of each month, or at such other periods as may be directed by the Military Governor, submit
to the Military Governor a detailed estimate of the quarantine expenses of the Island of Cuba.
After the approval of such estimate by the Military Governor the chief quarantine officer shall
make requisition for the funds required in favor of the disbursing officer or agent, who shall
pay the bills and vouchers on account of the quarantine service upon the certificate of an
officer detailed under the Executive Order of January 17, 1899, and after approval by the chief
quarantine officer. The disbursing officer or agent shall render his accounts of such disbursments
in accordance with the rules and instructions to carry into effect the Executive Order of May
8, 1899, relative to the military government of the United States in the Island of Cuba, during
the maintenance of such government.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, August 2, 1900.

The Island of Guimaras in the Philippine group is assigned to naval jurisdiction and control
with a view to establishing thereon a naval base and station upon the strait of Iloilo, opposite
the town of that name.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, August 2, 1900.

The sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby
allotted from the Emergency Fund, Navy Department, 1901, for the purpose of meeting the expenses
of a survey of the Island of Guimaras in sufficient detail to fix the place of the coal wharf
and shed, of the dry dock, and of the fleet anchorages, and to appraise the land of private
ownership, which need to be condemned for the use of the government for its uses and for the
land defense required.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, August 23, 1900.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, September 3, 1900.

It is hereby ordered that the following described lands in the State of Mississippi be and
they are hereby reserved for light-house purposes; viz:

Round Island, Mississippi. All of fractional sections three and four of township nine (9) south,
range six (6) west, east of Pearl River, containing respectively about 16.50 acres and 33.34 acres.

Horn Island, Mississippi. All of fractional sections 31 of township nine (9) south, range five
(5) west, and thirty-six (36) of township nine (9) south, range six (6) west, east of Pearl
River, containing, respectively, about 51.69 and 286.20 acres.

Petite Bois Blanc Island, Mississippi. All of fractional section three (3) of township ten
(10) south, range five (5) west, east of Pearl River, containing approximately 81.27 acres.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, September 19, 1900.

In accordance with the provisions of Section 179 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by an
act making appropriations for the legislative, executive and judicial expenses of the government,
approved August 5, 1882 (22 Stat, 238) Lieutenant-General Nelson A. Miles, commanding the Army
of the United States is authorized and directed to perform the duties of Secretary of War during
the illness or temporary absence from the seat of government of the Secretary of War whenever
during such illness or absence the Assistant Secretary of War is also absent; in accordance
with the same provisions, Major-General Henry C. Corbin, Assistant Adjutant-General of the
Army is authorized and directed to perform the duties of Secretary of War whenever during such
illness or absence the Assistant Secretary of War and the lieutenant-general commanding the
Army are also absent.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, September 20, 1900.

You are hereby directed to take charge of this expenditure for the purpose of enforcing the
above provisions, and you are directed to employ for that purpose the Marine Hospital Service
and to provide such other means as are necessary for the purpose aforesaid, and to carry out
such rules and regulations as have been or shall be made by you in conformity therewith.

You will carefully supervise and examine all expenditures made in executing the aforesaid law
and submit to me from time to time reports of such expenditures and statements of work done.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, October 10, 1900.

On and after October 15, 1900, there shall be detailed on the staff of the Military Governor
of the Islands of the Philippine Archipelago as chief of the quarantine service established
by Executive Order of January 3, 1900, a commissioned officer of the Marine Hospital Service
who shall on the first day of the month, and at such other periods as may be directed by the
Military Governor submit to the Military Governor a detailed estimate of the quarantine expenses
of the said Islands of the Philippine Archipelago. After the approval of such estimate by the
Military Governor the Chief Quarantine officer shall make requisition for the funds required
in favor of the disbursing officer or agent of the Treasury Department who shall pay the bills
and vouchers on account of the quarantine service upon the certificate of an officer detailed
under Executive Order of January 3, 1900 (said order being still in force except as herein
mentioned), and after approval by the Chief Quarantine officer. The disbursing officer or agent
shall be appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury as soon as practicable, and shall render
his accounts of such disbursements in accordance with the rules and instructions to carry into
effect the Executive Order of May 8, 1899, relative to the military government of the United
States in the Islands of the Philippine Archipelago during the maintenance of such government.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, October 10, 1900.

It is hereby ordered that Sections 26, 27, 34 and 35 township 14 south, range 14 east, Gila
and Salt River meridian Territory of Arizona, be and they are hereby reserved and set apart
for the use of the United States Department of Agriculture for the purposes of an agricultural
experiment station.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, October 13, 1900.

By virtue of the authority vested in the President of the United States by Section 3141, Revised
Statutes of the United States, I hereby order

That the county of Greer, which was formerly a part of the State of Texas, and as such was
specifically declared a part of the 4th Internal Revenue District of Texas by Executive Order
of June 29, 1881, be transferred to and made a part of the Internal Revenue District of Kansas,
said county having been declared by the United States Supreme Court in decision rendered at
the October term of 1895 to be a part of the Territory of Oklahoma, which Territory was added
to the District of Kansas by Executive Order of March 30, 1886, prior to the date of the judicial
decision above cited.

This order to take effect on the first day of November, 1900.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, October 29, 1900.

It is hereby ordered that lot 5 of the SW 1/4 of the NE 1/4, section 31, township 6 south,
range 11 west, Florida, be, and it is, hereby reserved for light-house purposes.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, November 20, 1900.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, December 7, 1900.

Whenever upon marches, guards, or in quarters, different corps of the army happen to join or
do duty together and an official of the Marine Corps or the militia shall command the whole
pursuant to the 122d article of war, such officer shall report his action and the operations
of the force under his command through military channels to the Secretary of War as well as
to his superiors in his own branch of the service.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, December 13, 1900.

To the Secretary of the Treasury:

The sum of $200,000 is hereby allotted and set apart from the appropriation made for the benefit
and government of Puerto Rico by the Act of March 24, 1900 (31 Stat., p. 51), to be used for
the extension of public education in Puerto Rico, including building and equipping of school
houses in said Island.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, December 14, 1900.

By virtue of the authority vested in me as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United
States of America, I hereby empower the Naval officer in command at the Island of Guam to act
as Collector of Customs for said Island, with authority to appoint a deputy if necessary.

I further direct that any authority heretofore exercised under the direction of the commandant
at said Naval Station in respect to the collection of customs be approved as if direct mention
of such authority had been included in the Executive Order of February 1, 1900.

In case the commandant shall make such appointment from civil life he shall require of the
appointee good and sufficient security for the due performance of the duties of the office.

Any authority heretofore exercised in the premises by the Naval Officer in command is hereby
ratified as if said power to appoint had been conferred in said Executive Order of February
1, 1900.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, December 19, 1900.

It is hereby ordered that the President's Order of January 9, 1884, transferring the Fort Yuma
Military Reservation to the control of the Department of the Interior to be used for Indian
purposes in connection with the Indian reservations established by the same order, be, and
the same is, hereby revoked as to that part of said military reservation lying south of the
Colorado River.

Inasmuch as said land has been abandoned for military purposes, as shown by executive orders
of January 9, 1884, and July 22, 1884, it is further ordered and directed that the portion
of said military reservation lying south of the Colorado River and being in the Territory of
Arizona be, and the same is, hereby placed under the control of the Secretary of the Interior
for disposition under the provisions of the Acts of Congress approved July 5, 1884 (23 Stat.,
p. 103), and August 22, 1894 (28 Stat., p. 491).

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, February 2, 1900.

By virtue of the authority vested in me as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United
States, I hereby order and direct that that part of Executive Order dated May 8, 1899, relating
to the appointment and creation of the office of Treasurer of the Island of Cuba, be amended
as follows:

The office of Treasurer of the Island of Cuba shall on and after April 1, 1901, be placed under
the jurisdiction of the Department of Finance of said Island, and shall be filled by the appointment
thereto of a citizen of Cuba. The said appointment to be made by the Military Governor thereof,
subject to the approval of the Secretary of War.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., March 8, 1901.

On recommendation of the Military Governor of Cuba, approved by the Secretary of War, I hereby
order and direct that the export rates of duty on tobacco, provided on page 50 of the "Customs
Tariff for Ports in the Island of Cuba" promulgated by Executive Order dated March 31, 1900,
shall be abolished on the 1st day of April, 1901.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., March 9, 1901.

I, William McKinley, President of the United States, by virtue of the authority vested in me
by Section 3141, Revised Statutes of the United States, hereby order that the States of North
Dakota and South Dakota, now part of the Internal Revenue District of Nebraska, shall be detached
from said District of Nebraska and constitute one District, to be known as the Internal Revenue
District of Newark, South Dakota.

The Internal Revenue District of Nebraska shall comprise the State of Nebraska.

This order to take effect on the first day of May, 1901.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

(ENDORSEMENTS.)

WAR DEPARTMENT, Washington, D.C., March 9, 1901.

Secretary of War:

Recommends modification of executive order of June 4, 1892, setting apart a wood reservation
for the post of Fort Fill, Oklahoma Territory, so as to make the eastern boundary coincident
with the new 98 meridian (the boundary line between the Kiowa and Comanche Reservation and
the Chickasaw Nation) as serving a mark, pursuant to act of Congress of June 28, 1898 (30 Stats.,
495).

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., March 11, 1901.

The within recommendation is approved. The Secretary of the Interior will cause this action
to be noted on the records of the General Land Office.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., March 12, 1901.

The executive order of May 8, 1899, relating to the Island of Cuba, as promulgated by the Assistant
Secretary of War, May 11, 1899, is hereby amended by substituting the following:

  By virtue of the authority vested in me as the Commander-in-Chief of
  the Army and Navy of the United States, I hereby order and direct that
  during the maintenance of Military Government by the United States in
  the Island of Cuba there is hereby created and shall be maintained the
  office of the Auditor for Cuba, to be filled by appointment of the
  Secretary of War, whose duties shall be to receive and audit all
  accounts of the island.

  There is hereby created and shall be maintained the office of Deputy
  Auditor for Cuba, to be filled by appointment of the Secretary of
  War, whose duties shall be to sign, in the name of the Auditor, such
  official papers as the Auditor may designate, and perform such other
  duties as the Auditor may prescribe. He shall have authority of
  his superior as Acting Auditor in case of the death, resignation,
  sickness, or other absence of the Auditor.

  There is hereby created and shall be maintained in the office of the
  Auditor the office of Chief Clerk, to be filled by appointment of the
  Auditor, and the Chief Clerk shall perform such duties as may be
  prescribed by the Auditor.

All rules and instructions necessary to carry into effect the provisions of executive orders
relating to Cuba shall be issued by the Secretary of War, and such rules and instructions shall
be enforced until the same are amended or revoked by the Secretary of War.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., March 14., 1901.

To the Secretary of the Treasury:

SIR:--The sum of two hundred thousand dollars is hereby allotted and set apart from the appropriation
made for the benefit and Government of Puerto Rico by the Act of March 24, 1900 (31 Stat.,
p. 51) to be expended in improving and grading of various roads throughout the island of Puerto
Rico such as "Neighboring Roads" between small municipalities.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., March 22, 1901.

To the Secretary of the Treasury:

SIR:--The sum of six thousand dollars is hereby allotted and set apart from the appropriation
made for the benefit and Government of Puerto Rico by the Act of March 24, 1900 (131 Stat.,
p. 51) to be expended by the Treasurer of Puerto Rico upon accounts certified by the Auditor
of the Island for refunding customs duties paid by certain contractors on materials intended
for use under their contracts brought into Puerto Rico since May 1, 1900.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., March 25, 1901.

Counsular officers will hereafter collect any fees for bills of health and supplemental bills
of health issued foreign war vessels. The tariff of Consular fees is amended accordingly.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., March 26, 1901.

It is hereby ordered that the unsurveyed portion of Eliza Island and Billingham Bay in section
five (5), township thirty-six (36) north, range two (2) East Willamette meridian, Washington
be, and it is hereby reserved for light-house purposes.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., March 30, 1901.

It is hereby ordered that the hereinafter described tracts of land in the District of Alaska
be, and they are hereby reserved and set apart for Reindeer stations, subject to any legal
existing rights to any land in the limits of the reservation hereby established, to wit:

1. The entire peninsula of which Cape Denbigh forms the southwestern extremity, situated in
latitude 64 degrees, 30 minutes north, longitude 161 degrees, 30 minutes west from Greenwich,
approximately fifteen (15) miles in length and five (5) miles in width.

A tract of land bounded as follows: Beginning at a point about six miles above the mouth of
the Unalaklik river and extending along the north bank of the Unalaklik river in a generally
northeasterly direction ten miles; thence in a generally northwesterly direction ten miles;
thence in a generally southwesterly direction ten miles; thence in a generally southeasterly
direction to the point of beginning.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., April 2, 1901.

It is hereby ordered that all of Amaknam Island, District of Alaska, except the tract of land
reserved for light-house purposes by executive order of Jan. 13th, 1899, and the tract of land
embraced in amended survey M 58 of the North American Commercial Co. be, and it is hereby reserved
for public purposes.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., April 5, 1901.

The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to enlist in the Insular Force United States Navy,
which is hereby established, not to exceed five hundred (500) Filipinos in the following ratings
at the rates of pay indicated:

  RATES                         MONTHLY PAY
  Navy Coxswains                  $ 15.00
  Navy Seamen                       12.00
  Navy Ordinary Seamen              10.00
  Navy Machinists; First-class      28.00
  Navy Machinists; Second-class     20.00
  Navy Firemen; First-class         18.00
  Navy Firemen; Second-class        15.00
  Navy Coal Passers                 11.00
  Navy Sutlers                      15.00
  Navy Cooks                        13.00
  Navy Mess-Attendants               8.00

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., April 6, 1901..

It is hereby ordered that upon Tuesday the ninth (9th) instant such employees of the Executive
Departments; the Government Printing Office and the Navy Yard and Station at Washington, as
served in the Military or Naval services of the United States in the late Civil War of Spanish-American
War, shall be excused from duty at one o'clock P.M. for the remainder of that day to enable
them to participate in the exercises of the unveiling of the statue erected to the memory of
the late General John A. Logan.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., April 15, 1901.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., April 23, 1901.

To the Secretary of the Treasury:

SIR:--The sum of five hundred thousand dollars is hereby allotted and set aside from the appropriation
made for the benefit and Government of Puerto Rico by the act of March 24th, 1900 (31 Stat.,
p. 51), to be expended for public and permanent improvements in Puerto Rico, under the supervision
and subject to the approval of the Governor and Executive Council of the Island.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., April 29, 1901.

In case of the death, resignation, absence or sickness of the Secretary of the Navy, the Assistant
Secretary of the Navy and the Chief of the Bureau of Navigation, Rear Admiral Charles O'Neil,
U.S. Navy and Chief of the Bureau of Ordnance is, in pursuance of the provisions of Sections
177 and 179 of the Revised Statutes, hereby authorized and directed to perform the duties of
Secretary of the Navy until a successor is appointed or until such absence or sickness shall cease.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., June 7, 1901.

The following "Classification of Vessels" and "Assignments to man afloat" are hereby established
for the Navy in accordance with an act of Congress, approved March 3:

  CLASSIFICATION OF VESSELS.

  Torpedo Boat Destroyers: Torpedo boats, tugs, sailing ships and
  receiving ships shall not be rated. Other vessels shall be rated by tons
  of displacement as follows:

  First Rates: Men of War when of eight thousand tons and above.

  Second Rates: Men of War of four thousand tons and under eight
  thousand tons, and Converted and Auxiliary vessels of six thousand tons
  and above, except Colliers, Refrigerating ships, Distilling ships,
  Tank-steamers, Reporting ships, Hospital ships and other vessels
  constructed or equipped for special purposes.

  Third Rates: Men of War from one thousand to four thousand tons
  and Converted and Auxiliary Vessels from one thousand to six thousand
  tons and Colliers, Refrigerating ships, Supply ships, Distilling ships,
  Tank-steamers, Report ships, Hospital ships and other vessels
  constructed or equipped for special purposes of four thousand tons and
  above.

  Fourth Rates: All other vessels.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., June 7, 1901.

Commandants to man the following:

An Admiral to man a fleet.

Rear-Admiral to man a fleet or squadron.

A Captain to man a division, or ship of the first or second rating or a ship not rated.

Commander to man a division or a ship of the second or third rating or ship not rated.

Lieutenant-Commander to man a ship of the third or fourth rating or a ship not rated.

A Lieutenant to man a ship of the fourth rating; a torpedo boat destroyer, torpedo boat, tug,
tender or a ship not rated.

A Lieutenant, junior grade, to command a torpedo boat, tug, tender or ship not rated.

An Ensign to man a torpedo boat, tug or ship not rated.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., June 10, 1901.

To the Secretary of the Treasury:

SIR:--The sum of five hundred thousand dollars, or so much thereof as remains unexpended, allotted
and set aside by order of April 23, 1901, from the appropriation made for the benefit and Government
of Puerto Rico by the act of March 24, 1900 (31 Stat, p. 51), is to be devoted to public and
permanent improvements in Puerto Rico and other governmental and public purposes therein, as
provided in the said act, and it is to be expended under the supervision and subject to the
approval of the Government and administrative authorities of the Island.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., June 21, 1901.

I hereby order and direct that Executive Order dated May 3, 1899, be amended so as to authorize
the appointment of civilians as Collectors of Customs in the Philippine Archipelago.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., June 21, 1901.

To the Secretary of War:

SIR:--Pending the cessation of conditions requiring a continuance of Military Government in
the Philippine Islands, you are authorized to make the following order:

  On and after the 4th day of July, 1901, until it shall otherwise
  be ordered, the President of the Philippine Commission will exercise
  the Executive Authority in all civil affairs of the Government in
  the Philippine Islands, heretofore exercised in such affairs by the
  Military Governor of the Philippines, and to that end, the Hon. W.H.
  Taft, President of the said Commission is hereby appointed Civil
  Governor of the Philippine Islands. Such executive authority will be
  exercised under and in conformity to the instructions to the Philippine
  Commissioners dated April 7th, 1900, and subject to the approval and
  control of the Secretary of War of the United States. The municipal
  and Provincial Civil Governments will then, or shall hereafter be
  established in said Islands and all persons performing duties pertaining
  to the offices of Civil Government in said Islands will, in respect of
  such duties report to the said Civil Government. The power to appoint
  Civil Officers, heretofore vested in the Philippine Commission or in
  the Military Government will be exercised by the Civil Governor with
  the advice and consent of the Commissioners.

The Military Governor of the Philippines is hereby relieved from the performance on and after
the said fourth day of July of the civil duties hereinbefore described, but his authority will
continue to be exercised as heretofore in those districts in which insurrection against the
authority of the United States continues to exist or in which public order is not sufficiently
restored to enable the Provincial Civil Government to be established under the instructions
to the Commission dated April 7th, 1900.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., June 21, 1901.

In accordance with the provision in Section 2253 of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
and by virtue of the authority thereby given, it is hereby ordered that the existing boundary
line between Coeur d'Alene and Lewiston Land Districts, State of Idaho, be and it is hereby
changed and re-established as follows: Beginning on the boundary line between the States of
Idaho and Washington at the northwest corner of directional township forty-two (42) north,
range six (6) west, Boise meridian, thence east along the boundary line between townships forty-two
(42) and forty-three (43) north, to the crest of the Bitter Root Mountains.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., June 25, 1901.

The executive order of April 5, 1901, is hereby amended by striking out the word "Filipinos"
and inserting in its stead "natives of the Islands of the Philippines and of the Island of Guam."

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., June 25, 1901.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., June 29, 1901.

In accordance with provision of the act of Congress approved June 4, 1897 (30 Stat. 34, 36),
and by virtue of authority thereby given, and on the recommendation of the Secretary of the
Interior, it is hereby ordered that township twenty-two (22) south, range nine (9) east, and
township twenty-three (23) south, range nine (9) east, Willamette meridian, Oregon, within
the limits of the Cascade Range Forest Reservation be restored to the public Domain after sixty
days' notice hereof by publication as required by law, these tracts having been found better
adapted to agriculture than forest purposes.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., July 24, 1901.

To the Secretary of the Treasury:

SIR:--I herewith allot and set apart the funds now remaining in the Treasury of the United
States as a separate fund raised from duties and taxes collected in the United States under
the provisions of the act of Congress entitled "An act temporarily to provide revenues and
a Civil Government for Puerto Rico and for other purposes" approved April 12th, 1900, for public
purposes in Puerto Rico; and these funds hereby allotted shall be devoted to public and permanent
improvements in Puerto Rico and other Governmental and public purposes therein as set forth
in the act of Congress approved March 24th, 1900 (31 Stat., p. 51), and shall be expended under
the sole supervision and subject to the approval of the Governor and Administrative heads of
the Island.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., August 19, 1901.

It is hereby ordered that so much of the Executive Order of December 28, 1898 as fixes the
rates at which the Spanish Alphonsino (centem) and the French Louis shall be accepted in payment
of customs, taxes, public and postal dues in the Island of Cuba is modified to read as follows:

  Alphonsino (25 Peseta Piece)   $4.78
  Louis (20 Frank Piece)          3.83

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., August 20, 1901.

It is hereby ordered that all tracts and parcels of land belonging to the United States situated
on the Peninsula extending into the harbor on the south side of the city of San Juan, Puerto
Rico, known as Barrio de la Puntilla, or Puntilla Point, bounded on the north by the south
boundary of the Paseo de la Princesa and on the east, south and west by the navigable waters
of the harbor at such part Warden's line as may be established by competent authority, be and
the same are hereby reserved for naval purposes.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., August 27, 1901.

It is hereby ordered that the Executive Order of Jan. 4th, 1901, reserve for light house purposes
among other tracts of land or cites in the District of Alaska a tract described as follows:
"Scotch Cap beginning at a point at low water mark, said point being three miles easterly of
point at low water mark opposite Scotch Cap Pinnacle six (6) due north one mile, thence north
seventy-one (71) degrees east true four (4) miles, thence south thirty-eight (38) degrees true
to low water mark; thence follow the windings of the low water mark to place of beginning,"
be and the same is hereby canceled so far as it relates to the above described tract, and it
is hereby ordered that in lieu thereof a tract described as follows: Scotch Cap beginning at
point at low water mark on Unimak Island, said point being three miles easterly of a point
at low water mark opposite Scotch Cap Pinnacle; thence due north one mile; thence north seventy-one
(71) degrees west true to four miles; thence south thirty-eight degrees west true to low water
mark, thence follow the windings of the low water mark to place of beginning, be and it is
hereby reserved and set apart for light house purposes, subject to any legal existing rights
thereto.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., August 29, 1901.

In accordance with provisions of Section 179 Revised Statutes as amended by act approved August
5th, 1882 (22 Stats, at large 238), Brigadier-General G.S. Gillespie, Corps of Engineers, United
States Army, is authorized and directed to perform the duties of Secretary of War during the
temporary absence from the seat of Government of the Secretary of War and the Assistant Secretary
of War.

WILLIAM McKINLEY.

PRESIDENT McKINLEY'S LAST PUBLIC UTTERANCE TO THE PEOPLE, BUFFALO, N.Y., SEPTEMBER 5TH, 1901.

President Milburn, Director General Buchanan, Commissioners, Ladies and Gentlemen:

I am glad to be again in the city of Buffalo and exchange greetings with her people, to whose
generous hospitality I am not a stranger and with whose good will I have been repeatedly and
signally honored. To-day I have additional satisfaction in meeting and giving welcome to the
foreign representatives assembled here, whose presence and participation in this exposition
have contributed in so marked a degree to its interest and success. To the Commissioners of
the Dominion of Canada and the British colonies, the French colonies, the republics of Mexico
and Central and South America and the commissioners of Cuba and Puerto Rico, who share with
us in this undertaking, we give the hand of fellowship and felicitate with them upon the triumphs
of art, science, education and manufacture which the old has bequeathed to the new century.
Expositions are the timekeepers of progress. They record the world's advancement. They stimulate
the energy, enterprise and intellect of the people and quicken human genius. They go into the
home. They broaden and brighten the daily life of the people. They open mighty storehouses
of information to the student. Every exposition, great or small, has helped to some onward
step. Comparison of ideas is always educational, and as such instruct the brain and hand of
man. Friendly rivalry follows, which is the spur to industrial improvement, the inspiration
to useful invention and to high endeavor in all departments of human activity. It exacts a
study of the wants, comforts and even the whims of the people and recognizes the efficiency
of high quality and new pieces to win their favor. The quest for trade is an incentive to men
of business to devise, invent, improve and economize in the cost of production.

Business life, whether among ourselves or with other people, is ever a sharp struggle for success.
It will be none the less so in the future. Without competition we would be clinging to the
clumsy antiquated processes of farming and manufacture and the methods of business of long
ago, and the twentieth would be no further advanced than the eighteenth century. But though
commercial competitors we are, commercial enemies we must not be.

The Pan-American exposition has done its work thoroughly, presenting in its exhibits evidences
of the highest skill and illustrating the progress of the human family in the western hemisphere.
This portion of the earth has no cause for humiliation for the part it has performed in the
march of civilization. It has not accomplished everything from it. It has simply done its best,
and without vanity or boastfulness, and recognizing the manifold achievements of others, it
invites the friendly rivalry of all the powers in the peaceful pursuits of trade and commerce,
and will co-operate with all in advancing the highest and best interests of humanity.

The wisdom and energy of all the nations are none too great for the world's work. The success
of art, science, industry and invention is an international asset and a common glory.

After all, how near one to the other is every part of the world. Modern inventions have brought
into close relation widely separated peoples and made them better acquainted. Geographic and
political divisions will continue to exist, but distances have been effaced. Swift ships and
swift trains are becoming cosmopolitan. They invade fields which a few years ago were impenetrable.
The world's products are exchanged as never before, and with increasing transportation facilities
come increasing knowledge and larger trade. Prices are fixed with mathematical precision by
supply and demand. The world's selling prices are regulated by market and crop reports.

We travel greater distances in a shorter space of time and with more ease than was ever dreamed
of by the fathers. Isolation is no longer possible or desirable. The same important news is
read, though in different languages, the same day in all Christendom. The telegraph keeps us
advised of what is occurring everywhere, and the press foreshadows, with more or less accuracy,
the plans and purposes of the nations.

Market prices of products and of securities are hourly known in every commercial mart, and
the investments of the people extend beyond their own national boundaries into the remotest
parts of the earth. Vast transactions are conducted and international exchanges are made by
the tick of the cable. Every event of interest is immediately bulletined. The quick gathering
and transmission of news, like rapid transit, are of recent origin and are only made possible
by the genius of the inventor and the courage of the investor. It took a special messenger
of the Government, with every facility known at the time for rapid travel, nineteen days to
go from the city of Washington to New Orleans with a message to General Jackson that the war
with England had ceased and a treaty of peace had been signed. How different now!

We reached General Miles in Puerto Rico by cable, and he was able, through the military telegraph,
to stop his army on the firing line with the message that the United States and Spain had signed
a protocol suspending hostilities. We knew almost instantly of the first shots fired at Santiago,
and the subsequent surrender of the Spanish forces was known at Washington within less than
an hour of its consummation. The first ship of Cervera's fleet had hardly emerged from that
historic harbor when the fact was flashed to our capital, and the swift destruction that followed
was announced immediately through the wonderful medium of telegraphy.

So accustomed are we to safe and easy communication with distant lands that its temporary interruption,
even in ordinary times, results in loss and inconvenience. We shall never forget the days of
anxious waiting and awful suspense when no information was permitted to be sent from Pekin,
and the diplomatic representatives of the nations in China, cut off from all communication,
inside and outside of the walled capital, were surrounded by an angry and misguided mob that
threatened their lives; nor the joy that filled the world when a single message from the Government
of the United States brought through our minister the first news of the safety of the besieged
diplomats.

At the beginning of the nineteenth century there was not a mile of steam railroad on the globe.
Now there are enough miles to make its circuit many times. Then there was not a line of electric
telegraph; now we have a vast mileage traversing all lands and seas. God and man have linked
the nations together. No nation can longer be indifferent to any other. And as we are brought
more and more in touch with each other the less occasion there is for misunderstandings and
the stronger the disposition, when we have differences, to adjust them in the court of arbitration,
which is the noblest forum for the settlement of international disputes.

My fellow citizens, trade statistics indicate that this country is in a state of unexampled
prosperity. The figures are almost appalling. They show that we are utilizing our fields and
forests and mines and that we are furnishing profitable employment to the millions of workingmen
throughout the United States, bringing comfort and happiness to their homes and making it possible
to lay by savings for old age and disability. That all the people are participating in this
great prosperity is seen in every American community, and shown by the enormous and unprecedented
deposits in our savings banks. Our duty is the care and security of these deposits, and their
safe investment demands the highest integrity and the best business capacity of those in charge
of these depositories of the people's earnings.

We have a vast and intricate business, built up through years of toil and struggle, in which
every part of the country has its stake, and will not permit of either neglect or of undue
selfishness. No narrow, sordid policy will subserve it. The greatest skill and wisdom on the
part of the manufacturers and producers will be required to hold and increase it. Our industrial
enterprises which have grown to such great proportions affect the homes and occupations of
the people and the welfare of the country. Our capacity to produce has developed so enormously
and our products have so multiplied that the problem of more markets requires our urgent and
immediate attention. Only a broad and enlightened policy will keep what we have. No other policy
will get more. In these times of marvelous business energy and gain we ought to be looking
to the future, strengthening the weak places in our industrial and commercial system, that
we may be ready for any storm or strain.

By sensible trade arrangements which will not interrupt our home production we shall extend
the outlets for our increasing surplus. A system which provides a mutual exchange of commodities,
a mutual exchange is manifestly essential to the continued and healthful growth of our export
trade. We must not repose in fancied security that we can forever sell everything and buy little
or nothing. If such a thing were possible, it would not be best for us or for those with whom
we deal. We should take from our customers such of their products as we can use without harm
to our industries and labor. Reciprocity is the natural outgrowth of our wonderful industrial
development under the domestic policy now firmly established. What we produce beyond our domestic
consumption must have a vent abroad. The excess must be relieved through a foreign outlet and
we should sell everywhere we can, and buy wherever the buying will enlarge our sales and productions,
and thereby make a greater demand for home labor.

The period of exclusiveness is past. The expansion of our trade and commerce is the pressing
problem. Commercial wars are unprofitable. A policy of good will and friendly trade relations
will prevent reprisals. Reciprocity treaties are in harmony with the spirit of the times, measures
of retaliation are not. If perchance some of our tariffs are no longer needed, for revenue
or to encourage and protect our industries at home, why should they not be employed to extend
and promote our markets abroad? Then, too, we have inadequate steamship service. New lines
of steamers have already been put in commission between the Pacific coast ports of the United
States and those on the western coasts of Mexico and Central and South America. These should
be followed up with direct steamship lines between the eastern coast of the United States and
South American ports. One of the needs of the times is to direct commercial lines from our
vast fields of production to the fields of consumption that we have but barely touched. Next
in advantage to having the thing to sell is to have the convenience to carry it to the buyer.
We must encourage our merchant marine. We must have more ships. They must be under the American
flag, built and manned and owned by Americans. These will not only be profitable in a commercial
sense; they will be messengers of peace and amity wherever they go. We must build the Isthmian
canal, which will unite the two oceans and give a straight line of water communication with
the western coasts of Central and South America and Mexico. The construction of a Pacific cable
cannot be longer postponed.

In the furthering of these objects of national interest and concern you are performing an important
part. This exposition would have touched the heart of that American statesman whose mind was
ever alert and thought ever constant for a larger commerce and a truer fraternity of the republics
of the new world. His broad American spirit is felt and manifested here. He needs no identification
to an assemblage of Americans anywhere, for the name of Blaine is inseparably associated with
the Pan-American movement, which finds this practical and substantial expression, and which
we all hope will be firmly advanced by the Pan-American congress that assembles this autumn
in the capital of Mexico. The good work will go on. It cannot be stopped. These buildings will
disappear; this creation of art and beauty and industry will perish from sight, but their influence
will remain to

  Make it live beyond its too short living
  With praises and thanksgiving.

Who can tell the new thoughts that have been awakened, the ambitions fired and the high achievements
that will be wrought through this exposition? Gentlemen, let us ever remember that our interest
is in concord, not conflict, and that our real eminence rests in the victories of peace, not
those of war. We hope that all who are represented here may be moved to higher and nobler effort
for their own and the world's good, and that out of this city may come, not only greater commerce
and trade, but more essential than these, relations of mutual respect, confidence and friendship
which will deepen and endure.

Our earnest prayer is that God will graciously vouchsafe prosperity, happiness and peace to
all our neighbors, and like blessings to all the peoples and powers of earth.

DEATH OF PRESIDENT McKINLEY.

ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE ASSASSINATION.

Buffalo, N.Y., Sept. 6-7 P.M.

The President was shot about 4 o'clock. One bullet struck him on the upper portion of the breastbone,
glancing and not penetrating; the second bullet penetrated the abdomen five inches below the
left nipple and one and a half inches to the left of the median line. The abdomen was opened
through the line of the bullet wound. It was found that the bullet had penetrated the stomach.
The opening in the front wall of the stomach was carefully closed with silk stitches, after
which a search was made for a hole in the back wall of the stomach. This was found and also
closed in the same way. The further course of the bullet could not be discovered, although
careful search was made. The abdominal wound was closed without drainage. No injury to the
intestines or other abdominal organ was discovered. The patient stood the operation well, pulse
of good quality, rate of 130. Condition at the conclusion of operation was gratifying. The
result cannot be foretold. His condition at present justifies hope of recovery.

GEORGE B. CORTELYOU,
  Secretary to the President.

NEWS AT THE WHITE HOUSE.

The official announcement of the President's death was received at the White House at 2:35
o'clock, September 14, 1901, as follows:

  Buffalo, September 14.

  Col. B.F. Montgomery, Executive Mansion, Washington:

  The President died at 2:15 this morning.

  GEORGE B. CORTELYOU.

Immediately upon receipt of the official dispatch the following was sent to Secretary Cortelyou:

  Members of the executive staff in Washington are deeply affected, and
  beg to tender their profound sympathy to Mrs. McKinley.

  O.F. PRUDEN,
    Assistant Secretary.

PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT OF DEATH BY THE PHYSICIANS.

MILBURN HOUSE, Buffalo, N.Y., Sept. 14.

The following report of the autopsy upon the remains of President McKinley was issued at 5 o'clock:

  The bullet which struck over the breastbone did not pass through the
  skin, and did little harm. The other bullet passed through both walls of
  the stomach near its lower border. Both holes were found to be perfectly
  closed by the stitches, but the tissue around each hole had become
  gangrenous. After passing through the stomach the bullet passed into
  the back walls of the abdomen, hitting and tearing the upper end of
  the kidney. This portion of the bullet track was also gangrenous, the
  gangrene involving the pancreas. The bullet has not yet been found.
  There was no sign of peritonitis or disease of other organs. The heart
  walls were very thin. There was no evidence of any attempt at repair on
  the part of nature, and death resulted from the gangrene, which affected
  the stomach around the bullet wounds as well as the tissues around the
  further course of the bullet. Death was unavoidable by any surgical or
  medical treatment, and was the direct result of the bullet wound.

  HARVEY D. GAYLORD, M.D.
  HERMAN G. MATZINGER, M.D.
  P.M. RIXEY, M.D.
  MATTHEW D. MANN, M.D.
  HERMAN MYNTER, M.D.
  ROSWELL PARK, M.D.
  EUGENE WASDIN, M.D.
  CHARLES G. STOCKTON, M.D.
  EDWARD G. JANEWAY, M.D.
  W.D. JOHNSON, M.D.
  W.P. KENDALL, Surgeon, U.S.A.
  CHARLES CARY, M.D.
  EDWARD L. MUNSON, Assistant Surgeon, U.S.A.
  HERMANUS L. BAER, M.D.

ANNOUNCEMENT TO THE VICE-PRESIDENT.

At the residence of Mr. Ansley Wilcox, 641 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo, N.Y., Mr. Root stepped
forward and said, with deep emotion: "Mr. Vice-President, I have been requested on behalf of
the Cabinet of the late President--at least those who are present in Buffalo, all except two--to
request that for reasons of weight affecting the affairs of Government you should proceed to
take the constitutional oath of President of the United States."

THE VICE-PRESIDENT'S REPLY.

"I shall take the oath at once in accordance with your request, and in this hour of deep and
terrible national bereavement. I wish to state that it shall be my aim to continue absolutely
unbroken the policy of President McKinley for the peace and prosperity and honor of our beloved
country."

ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE ASSASSINATION TO REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED STATES ABROAD.

(From the Washington Post, Sept. 15, 1901.)

DEPARTMENT OF STATE, Washington, Sept. 14.

Sir: It is my painful duty to announce to you the death of William McKinley, President of the
United States, in the city of Buffalo, at fifteen minutes past 2 in the morning of to-day,
September 14.

Laid low by the act of an assassin, the week-long struggle to save his life has been watched
with keen solicitude, not alone by the people of this country, who raised him from their own
ranks to the high office he filled, but by the people of all friendly nations, whose messages
of sympathy and hope, while hope was possible, have been most consolatory in this time of sore
trial.

Now that the end has come, I request you to be the medium of communicating the sad tidings
to the Government of the honored nation you so worthily represent, and to announce that in
obedience to the prescriptions of the Constitution, the office of President has devolved upon
Theodore Roosevelt, Vice-President of the United States.

Accept, sir, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration.

JOHN HAY.

ANNOUNCEMENT TO THE ARMY.

[GENERAL ORDER No. 13.]

HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY,
  ADJUTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE,
    Washington, D.C. Sept. 16, 1901.

With great sorrow, the commanding general announces the death of William McKinley, President
of the United States and, by statute, Commander-in-Chief of the District of Columbia Militia,
which occurred at Buffalo, N.Y., at 2:15 o'clock A.M. on September 14, 1901.

Throughout his tragically terminated administration President McKinley was actively interested
in the welfare of this organization and frequently gave it evidence of his sincere friendship.
His distinguished services as soldier and civilian must incite to emulation and will result
in purer patriotism and better citizenship wherever his career is studied.

The national flag will be displayed at half-staff on all armories from sunrise to sunset of
each day until sunset of Thursday, the 19th instant, on which day the remains of the late Commander-in-Chief
will be interred at Canton, Ohio.

The officers of the National Guard will wear the usual badge of mourning upon their swords,
and the regimental and battalion colors will be draped in mourning for a period of thirty days.

By command of BRIG.-GEN. HARRIES.

CHARLES H. OURAND,
  Major and Inspector General, Acting Adjutant-General.

By direction of the Acting Secretary of War, the National Guard of the District of Columbia
will assemble for escort and parade duty on Tuesday, September 17, 1901, to participate in
the funeral of William McKinley, late President of the United States and Commander-in-Chief
of the District of Columbia Militia.

The brigade will assemble at 8:30 o'clock A.M., in column of companies, on Pennsylvania avenue
facing east, its right resting on Nineteenth street northwest.

The order of formation, from right to left, will be as follows:

  General staff and general non-commissioned staff.
  Brigade Band.
  Engineer Corps.
  Second Regiment of Infantry.
  First Regiment of Infantry.
  Corps of field music.
  First Separate Battalion.
  Signal Corps.
  Naval Battalion.
  Ambulance Corps.

Undress uniform, forage caps, leggings, white standing collars, and white gloves will be worn;
the Naval Battalion to be in its prescribed uniform.

All members of the general staff and general non-commissioned staff, and the field officers
and adjutants of regiments will be mounted, and will wear the prescribed undress mounted uniform.

All commanding officers will assemble at the adjutant-general's office at 9:30 o'clock on the
evening of September 16, to receive any special orders that may be issued.

Commanding officers of companies will furnish their battalion adjutants with "morning reports"
immediately after the parade is dismissed, noting thereon the names of all officers and men
absent from the parade without leave. Commanding officers of regiments, separate battalions,
and separate companies will furnish these headquarters with consolidated morning reports before
10 o'clock A.M. of the 19th instant; will see that all enlisted men absent without leave are
properly dealt with, and will report to these headquarters the names of all commissioned officers
so absent.

By command of BRIG.-GEN. HARRIES.

CHARLES H. OURAND,
  Major and Inspector General, Acting Adjutant-General.

OFFICIAL ORDERS SENT OUT.

SALUTES TO BE FIRED AND FLAGS LOWERED AFLOAT AND ASHORE.

Secretary of State Hay and Secretary of the Treasury Gage, the only Cabinet officers in town,
held a consultation on the morning of the 13th as a result of which the following order was issued:

  DEPARTMENT OF STATE, Washington, Sept. 14.

  To the Secretary of the Navy:

  Out of respect to the memory of the President, the executive departments
  will be closed to-day and on the day of the funeral.

  JOHN HAY.

A similar order was communicated to all the heads and acting heads of the executive departments
in Washington by government telegraph. They in turn issued the necessary orders for the closing
of their respective departments, not only in Washington, but throughout the country. In a short
time the large buildings were deserted, except by a few clerks detailed to aid their chiefs
in the promulgation of necessary orders.

In addition to issuing the order closing the Navy Department, Acting Secretary Hackett dispatched
the following order to every commander-in-chief, to every navy yard, and to every United States
ship, stating simply:

  It is with profound sorrow that the department announces to you the
  death of President McKinley at 2:15, September 14.

The Acting Secretary also issued the following order to the naval branch of the United States:

  [SPECIAL ORDER No. 12.]

  NAVY DEPARTMENT, Washington, Sept. 14, 1901.

  The President of the United States died this morning at 2:15, in the
  city of Buffalo, N.Y. Officers and men of the navy and Marine Corps need
  not to be reminded of the public and private virtues of their late
  Commander-in-Chief. The whole people loved William McKinley, for he
  loved and trusted them.

  As soldier, statesman, husband, and as a pure-minded, great-hearted
  American, his fame now belongs to his country.

  Under the Constitution, Theodore Roosevelt, previously Vice-President,
  has become President and Commander-in-Chief of the navy and Marine Corps
  of the United States.

  F.W. HACKETT,
    Acting Secretary.

The ceremonies to be observed are provided for in the naval regulations as follows:

  Upon the receipt of official intelligence of the death of the President
  of the United States, the senior officer shall direct that on the
  following day the ensign and union jack be displayed at half-mast from
  sunrise to sunset, and guns fired every half hour from all ships
  present. Similar orders shall be given at naval stations.

A naval regulation provides that salutes shall not be fired on Sunday except in cases wherein
international courtesy would suffer from the breach. Therefore the firing of the guns will
take place on Monday at those points where the department's announcement was received yesterday.

ORDER TO THE ARMY.

A dispatch was received at the War Department on the afternoon of the 13th from Secretary Root
approving the draft of the order to the army, announcing the death of President McKinley. It
was sent to all officers in command. The order follows:

  HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY,
    ADJUTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE,
      Washington, September 14.

  General orders:

  1. The following order of the Secretary of War announces to the army
  the death of William McKinley, President of the United States:

  WAR DEPARTMENT, Washington, September 14.

  The distressing duty devolves upon the Secretary of War of announcing to
  the army the death of William McKinley, President of the United States,
  which occurred at Buffalo, N.Y., at 2:15 o'clock A.M., on the 14th day
  of September, 1901.

  The grief into which the nation has been plunged at the untimely death
  of its Chief Magistrate will be keenly felt by the army of the United
  States, in which, in his early manhood, he rendered distinguished and
  patriotic services, and in whose welfare he manifested at all times a
  profound and abiding solicitude.

  Appropriate funeral honors will be paid to the memory of the late
  President and Commander-in-Chief at the headquarters of every military
  division and department, at every military port, at the United States
  Military Academy, West Point, and at every camp of troops of the United
  States in the field.

  The Lieutenant-General of the army will give the necessary instructions
  for carrying this order into effect.

  ELIHU ROOT,
    Secretary of War.

  2. On the day after the receipt of this order at the headquarters of
  military commands in the field and at each military station and at the
  Military Academy, at West Point, the troops and cadets will be paraded
  at 10 o'clock, A.M., and the order read to them, after which all labor
  for the day will cease.

  THIRTEEN GUNS AT DAWN.

  3.

  The national flag will be displayed at half-staff at the headquarters
  of the several military divisions and departments, and at all military
  posts, stations, forts, and buildings and vessels under the control
  of the department until the remains of the late Chief Magistrate are
  consigned to their final resting place at Canton, Ohio, on the afternoon
  of Thursday, the 19th instant, on which day all labor will be suspended
  at all military posts and stations and on all public works under the
  direction of the department, and at 12 o'clock meridian twenty-one
  minute guns will be fired from all military posts and stations.

  The officers of the army of the United States will wear the usual badge
  of mourning on their swords and the colors of the various military
  organizations of the army will be draped in mourning for the period of
  one month.

  4. The following officers of the army will, with a like number of
  officers of the navy selected for the purpose, compose the guard of
  honor, and accompany the remains of their late Commander-in-Chief from
  the National Capital to Canton, Ohio, and continue with them until they
  are consigned to their final resting place:

  The Lieutenant-General of the Army.
  Maj.-Gen. John R. Brooke.
  Maj.-Gen. Elwell S. Otis.
  Maj.-Gen. Arthur MacArthur.
  Brig.-Gen. George L. Gillespie.

  By command of Lieut.-Gen. Miles.

  THOMAS WARD,
    Acting Adjutant-General.

The following order then issued:

  WAR DEPARTMENT, Washington, Sept. 14.

  The Secretary of War announces to the army that upon the death of
  William McKinley, President of the United States, Theodore Roosevelt,
  Vice-President, has succeeded to the office of President of the United
  States, by virtue of the Constitution.

  ELIHU ROOT,
    Secretary of War.

Secretary Root also gave directions to the officers of the department to make the necessary
arrangements and issue orders for the participation of the army in the funeral ceremonies,
following the Garfield precedent.

The following order was issued by the Secretary of the Treasury to the Revenue Cutter Service:

  The department announces to the service the sad tidings of the death of
  the President. The flags of all vessels of the Revenue Cutter Service
  will be carried at half-mast until otherwise ordered.

MR. GAGE ANNOUNCES DEATH.

HEAD OF TREASURY PAYS TRIBUTE TO THE LATE PRESIDENT MCKINLEY.

Secretary Gage issued the following announcement of the death of President McKinley:

  It has been thought proper to make sad but official announcement in this
  issue of Treasury Decisions of the tragic death of William McKinley,
  twenty-fifth President of the United States, and to give some expression
  of that tribute which his character and deeds compel.

  It needed not the shadows of death to make the figure of the late
  President loom large in the estimate of mankind.

  The republic he loved he lived to broaden and unify as no previous
  President had done. Under his prudent and far-seeing statesmanship it
  took exalted place in the community of nations.

  From his place as private citizen, on through many and increasing
  honors to his final post as ruler of his people, he remained true to
  the highest ideals.

  By the people of the nation at large and by the world he was known and
  will live in grateful annals as a gentleman of noble heart, an
  affectionate husband, a sturdy friend, and a faithful and illustrious
  President.

  In a long public life, ever open to his fellows, nothing was ever found,
  even by intemperate partisan zeal, that would cast a shade upon his
  character.

  The kindly and unselfish attributes which his colleagues knew and loved,
  the public felt, and now men of every faith and following join in
  reverent acknowledgment of those distinctive virtues and abilities that
  lift him among the truly great of all ages.

  The passing of Presidents and Kings usually evokes tributes of praise,
  but in William McKinley's life there was an element that made him more
  than ruler, and which, in the hour of his death, is above the tribute
  of speech and tears.

  The ordinary tributes paid to the memory of the great when they pass
  from earth utterly fail to satisfy the mind in an attempted application
  of them to our dead President.

  L.J. GAGE,
    Secretary.

CERTIFICATE OF THE CORONER.

FORMAL RECORD OF MCKINLEY'S DEATH FOR BUREAU OF VITAL STATISTICS.

The coroner of Erie County issued the following certificate of death of the late President:

  CITY OF BUFFALO,
    BUREAU OF VITAL STATISTICS,
      COUNTY OF ERIE, STATE OF NEW YORK.

  Certificate and record of death of William McKinley:

  I hereby certify that he died on the 14th day of September, 1901, about
  2:15 o'clock A.M., and that to the best of my knowledge and belief the
  cause of death was as hereunder written:

  Cause, gangrene of both walls of stomach and pancreas following gunshot
  wound.

  Witness my hand this 14th day of September, 1901.

  H.R. GAYLORD, M.D.
  H.Z. MATZINGER, M.D.
  JAMES F. WILSON, Coroner.

  Date of death--September 14, 1901.
  Age--58 years, 7 months, 15 days.
  Color--White.
  Single, married, etc.--Married.
  Occupation--President of the United States.
  Birthplace--Niles, Ohio.
  How long in the United States, if foreign born--
  Father's name--William McKinley.
  Father's birthplace--Pennsylvania, U.S.
  Mother's name--Nancy McKinley.
  Mother's birthplace--Ohio, U.S.
  Place of death--1168 Delaware avenue.
  Last previous residence--Washington, D.C.
  Direct cause of death--Gangrene of both walls of stomach and pancreas
  following gunshot wound.

OFFICIAL ORDER OF OBSERVANCES.

ORDER OF ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE OBSEQUIES AT WASHINGTON CITY OF WILLIAM MCKINLEY, LATE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES.

The remains of the late President will arrive in Washington at 8:30 o'clock P.M. on Monday,
the 16th of September, 1901, and will be escorted to the Executive Mansion by a squadron of
United States Cavalry.

On Tuesday, the 17th instant, at 9 o'clock A.M., they will be borne to the Capitol, where they
will lie in state in the rotunda from 10 o'clock P.M. until 6 P.M. that date.

The following morning there will be exercises at the Capitol at 10 o'clock. At 1 P.M. the remains
will be borne to the depot of the Pennsylvania Railroad, and thence conveyed to their final
resting place at Canton, Ohio.

FROM WHITE HOUSE TO CAPITOL.

ORDER OF PROCESSION FOR TUESDAY.

SECTION I.

  Funeral Escort,
  Under Command of
  Maj.-Gen. John R. Brooke, U.S.A.
  Artillery Band.
  Squadron of Cavalry.
  Company A, United States Engineers.
  Two Batteries C Artillery.
  Marine Band.
  Battalion of Marines.
  Battalion of United States Seamen.
  Brigade of National Guard, District of Columbia.

SECTION II.

  Under Command of Chief Marshal,
  Gen. Henry V. Boynton.
  Clergymen in Attendance.
  Physicians who attended the late President.
  Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States.
  Grand Army of the Republic.
  Guard of Honor.       Guard of Honor.
                 Hearse.
         Bearers.       Bearers.

Officers of the army, Navy and Marine Corps in this city who are not on duty with the troops
forming the escort will form, in full dress, right in front, on either side of the hearse--the
army on the right and the Navy and Marine Corps on the left--and compose the guard of honor.

  Family of the late President.
  Relatives of the late President.
  Ex-President of the United States.

SECTION III.

  THE PRESIDENT.
  The Cabinet Ministers.
  The Diplomatic Corps.
  The Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme
    Court of the United States.
  The Senators of the United States.
  Members of the U.S. House of Representatives.
  Governors of States and Territories.
  Commissioners of the District of Columbia.
  The Judges of the Court of Claims, the Judiciary of the District of
    Columbia, and Judges of the United States Courts.
  The Assistant Secretaries of State, Treasury, War, Navy, Interior and
    Agricultural Departments.
  The Assistant Postmasters General.
  The Solicitor General and the Assistant Attorneys General.
  Organized Societies.

The troops designated to form the escort will assemble on the north side of Pennsylvania avenue,
facing the Executive Mansion, left resting on the eastern entrance to the grounds, and in inverse
order, so that when the column is formed to the left, the organizations will be in the order
above described. The formation will be completed at 9 A.M. on Tuesday, the 17th instant.

The civic procession will form in accordance with the directions to be given by the chief marshal.

The officers of the army and navy selected to compose the special guard of honor will be at
the Capitol so as to receive the remains upon arrival there.

WEDNESDAY'S SOLEMN PAGEANT.

Order of procession for Wednesday:

The military guard will escort the remains from the Capitol to the railroad station.

The troops on that date will assemble on the east side of the Capitol and form line fronting
the eastern portico of the Capitol precisely at 1 o'clock P.M.

The procession will move, upon the conclusion of the services at the Capitol (commencing at
1 o'clock P.M.), when minute guns will be fired at the navy yard, by the vessels of war which
may be in port, and at Fort Myer, and by a battery of artillery stationed near the Capitol
for that purpose.

At the same hour the bells of the several churches, fire engine-houses, and schoolhouses will
be tolled, the firing of the minute-guns and the tolling of the bells to continue until the
departure of the remains of the late Chief Magistrate for the railroad depot.

At 2:30 o'clock P.M. the officers of the army and navy selected to compose the special guard
of honor will assemble at the Pennsylvania depot in time to receive the body of the late President,
and deposit it in the car prepared for that purpose.

As the necessary limits of time do not permit personal communication with the public officers
of the United States and of the several States enumerated in the foregoing order, they are
respectfully requested to accept the invitation to take part in the exercises conveyed through
the publication hereof, and to send notice of their intention to be present to the Secretary
of War at the War Department in Washington.

Organizations and civic societies desiring to take part are requested to send similar notice
at the earliest time practicable to the chief marshal of the civic procession, Gen. Henry V.
Boynton, Wyatt Building, Washington, D.C.

JOHN HAY,
  Secretary of State.

ELIHU ROOT,
  Secretary of War.

JOHN D. LONG,
  Secretary of the Navy.

HENRY B.F. MACFARLAND,
  President of the Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia.

ORDER OF PROCESSION.

The procession then started at slow march up Pennsylvania avenue toward the White House. It
moved in the following order:

  Four mounted police outriders.

  Platoon of forty policemen on foot, Capt. Francis E. Cross, commanding.

  Platoon of sixteen mounted policemen abreast, Sergt. Matthews,
  commanding.

  Cavalry escort from Fort Myer, consisting of Troops I and L, under
  command of Maj. Walter L. Finlay. Staff, Maj. Thomas, Fifth Cavalry;
  Maj. George L. Davis, surgeon; Chaplain C.E. Pierce, Capt. S.H. Elliott,
  adjutant. Troop I, under command of Capt. C.E. Brooks and Second Lieut.
  A.S. Fuger, and Troop L, under command of Lieut. W.B. Scales.

  Three veteran society representatives, Mr. John McElroy, national senior
  vice-commander of the Grand Army of the Republic; Israel W. Stone,
  commander of the Department of the Potomac of the Grand Army of the
  Republic, and Gen. R.G. Dyrenforth, national commander of the Union
  Veteran Union.

  Platoon of representatives of veteran organizations, Col. J.T.
  Wilkinson, Spanish War Veterans; Col. J. Edwin Browne, Union Veteran
  Legion; Chaplain C.E. Stevens, Department of the Potomac, Grand Army of
  the Republic; A.M. Daniels, commander Post No. 6, Department of the
  Potomac; Past Commander George P. Davis, of Burnside Post; A.R. Greene,
  past department commander of Kansas; Grand Commander John M. Meacham,
  Department of the Potomac, Union Veterans' Union; Arthur Hendricks, past
  commander Department of the Potomac, Grand Army of the Republic; L.K.
  Brown, of Burnside Post, Grand Army of the Republic.

  Remains of the President.

ORDERS TO GUARD OF HONOR.

The following special order was issued on the 16th:

  The special guard of honor, composed of general officers of the army
  and admirals of the navy, will not march in the procession contemplated
  for Tuesday. The special guard of honor--general officers of the army,
  active and retired; the admirals of the navy, active and retired--not
  otherwise instructed will assemble in full dress as follows:

  Monday, September 16, 1901, at the White House at 8 P.M.

  Tuesday, September 17, 1901, at the east front of the Capitol at
  9:30 A.M.

Acting Secretary Hackett has issued the following order to govern the navy in the funeral ceremonies:

  [SPECIAL ORDER No. 13.]

  NAVY DEPARTMENT, Washington, Sept. 16, 1901.

  All officers on the active list of the navy and Marine Corps on duty
  in Washington will assemble in full dress uniform at 7:30 P.M. Monday
  evening, September 16, at Pennsylvania Railroad station for the purpose
  of meeting the remains of the late President of the United States. They
  will again assemble in the same uniform in the grounds of the Executive
  Mansion and near the eastern gate at 9 A.M. on Tuesday, September 17, to
  march as guard of honor in the procession from the Executive Mansion to
  the Capitol.

  The following special guard of honor is hereby appointed:

  The Admiral of the Navy, Rear Admiral A.S. Crowninshield, Rear Admiral
  Charles O'Neil, Paymaster-General A.S. Kenny, Brig.-Gen. Charles
  Heywood, U.S.M.C.

  The special guard of honor will assemble in special full dress uniform
  at the Executive Mansion at 8 P.M. Monday, September 16, to receive
  the remains of the late President, and will again assemble in the same
  uniform at the Capitol at 10 A.M. Tuesday, September 17, and will thence
  accompany the remains of President McKinley to their final resting place
  in Canton, Ohio.

  All officers of flag rank will constitute an additional special guard of
  honor, and will assemble at the places hereinbefore mentioned for the
  special guard of honor. The additional special guard of honor will not,
  however, accompany the remains of the late President to Canton.

  F.W. HACKETT,
    Acting Secretary.

The following official statement, making important changes in the plans for the funeral services
over the remains of President McKinley in this city, was made public:

  In compliance with the earnest wishes of Mrs. McKinley that the body
  of her husband shall rest in her home at Canton Wednesday night, the
  following changes in the obsequies of the late President will be made:

  Funeral services in the rotunda of the Capitol will be held Tuesday
  morning on the arrival of the escort which will accompany the remains
  from the White House. The body of the late President will lie in state
  in the rotunda for the remainder of Tuesday, and will be escorted to
  the railroad station Tuesday evening. The funeral train will leave
  Washington at or about 8 o'clock Tuesday evening, and thus will arrive
  at Canton during the day Wednesday.

  JOHN HAY,
    Secretary of State.

  ELIHU ROOT,
    Secretary of War.

  JOHN D. LONG,
    Secretary of the Navy.

  H.B.F. MACFARLAND,
    President Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia.

HOUSE COMMITTEE NAMED.

LIST WIRED BY SPEAKER HENDERSON.

The following dispatch from Speaker Henderson named the House committee:

  New York, Sept. 15, 1901.

  Hon. Henry Casson, Sergeant-at-arms, House of Representatives,
  Washington, D.C.:

  I have appointed the following committee for Presidential funeral and
  escort. Notify them at once, requesting answer. Give each date of
  funeral and hour of leaving Washington:

  Grosvenor, Ohio; Burton, Ohio; Tayler, Ohio; Loud, California; Russell,
  Connecticut; Ball, Delaware; Cannon, Illinois; Hitt, Illinois; Hopkins,
  Illinois; Steele, Indiana; Hepburn, Iowa; Curtis, Kansas; Burleigh,
  Maine; Mudd, Maryland; Gillett, Massachusetts; Corliss, Michigan;
  Fletcher, Minnesota; Mercer, Nebraska; Sulloway, New Hampshire;
  Loudenslager, New Jersey; Payne, New York; Sherman, New York; Marshall,
  North Dakota; Tongue, Oregon; Bingham, Pennsylvania; Grow, Pennsylvania;
  Dalzell, Pennsylvania; Capron, Rhode Island; Burke, South Dakota;
  Foster, Vermont; Cushman, Washington; Dovener, West Virginia; Babcock,
  Wisconsin; Mondell, Wyoming; Richardson, Tennessee; Bankhead, Alabama;
  McRae, Arkansas; Bell, Colorado; Sparkman, Florida; Lester, Georgia;
  Glenn, Idaho; Smith, Kentucky; Robertson, Louisiana; Williams,
  Mississippi; De Armond, Missouri; Edwards, Montana; Newlands, Nevada;
  Cummings, New York; W.W. Kitchin, North Carolina; Norton, Ohio; Elliott,
  South Carolina; Lanham, Texas; Swanson, Virginia; Bodie, New Mexico;
  Flynn, Oklahoma; Smith, Arizona.

  Acknowledge receipt of this telegram. I will be at funeral.

  D.B. HENDERSON.

ACTION OF CONGRESS.

Upon the assembly of the Fifty-seventh Congress in its first session convened, President Roosevelt
referred in touching terms to the assassination of the late President McKinley. (Page 417.)

The Senate on December 3, 1901, adopted the following resolution:

  Resolved, That a committee of eleven Senators be appointed on the
  part of the Senate, to join such committee as may be appointed on the
  part of the House, to consider and report on what token of respect and
  affection it may be proper for the Congress of the United States to
  express the deep sensibility of the nation to the tragic death of the
  late President, William McKinley, and that so much of the message of
  the President as relates to that deplorable event be referred to such
  committee.

The committee on the part of the Senate comprised the following named gentlemen: Mr. Foraker,
Mr. Allison, Mr. Fairbanks, Mr. Kean, Mr. Aldrich, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Perkins, Mr. Jones of Arkansas,
Mr. Morgan, Mr. Cockrell and Mr. McEnery.

The House of Representatives on December 3, passed the following resolution:

  Resolved, That a committee of one member from each State
  represented in this House be appointed on the part of the House to
  join such committee as may be appointed on the part of the Senate, to
  consider and report by what token of respect and affection it may be
  proper for the Congress of the United States to express the deep
  sensibility of the nation to the tragic death of the late President,
  William McKinley, and that so much of the message of the President as
  relates to that deplorable event be referred to that committee.

The committee on the part of the House of Representatives comprised the following named gentlemen:

  Ohio, Charles H. Grosvenor; California, Julius Kahn; Connecticut,
  E. Stevens Henry; Delaware, L. Heister Ball; Illinois, Vespasian
  Warner; Indiana, James E. Watson; Iowa, Robert G. Cousins; Idaho,
  Thomas L. Glenn; Kansas, Justin D. Bowersock; Maine, Amos L. Allen;
  Maryland, George A. Pearre; Massachusetts, William C. Lovering;
  Michigan, William Alden Smith; Minnesota, Page Morris; Montana, Caldwell
  Edwards; Nebraska, Elmer J. Burkett; New Hampshire, Frank D. Currier;
  New Jersey, Richard Wayne Parker; New York, John H. Ketcham, North
  Dakota, Thomas F. Marshall; North Carolina, Spencer Blackburn; Oregon,
  Malcolm A. Moody; Pennsylvania, Marlin E. Olmsted; Rhode Island,
  Melville Bull; South Dakota, Eben W. Martin; Utah, George Sutherland;
  Vermont, Kittredge Haskins; Washington, Wesley L. Jones; West Virginia,
  Alston G. Dayton; Wisconsin, Herman B. Dahle; Wyoming, Frank W. Mondell;
  Alabama, Oscar W. Underwood; Arkansas, Hugh A. Dinsmore; Florida,
  Robert W. Davis; Georgia, William H. Fleming; Kentucky, James N. Kehoe;
  Louisiana, Adolph Meyer; Mississippi, Charles E. Hooker; Missouri, Champ
  Clark; South Carolina, W. Jasper Talbert; Tennessee, John A. Moon;
  Texas, John L. Sheppard; Virginia, James Hay; Colorado, John F.
  Shafroth; Nevada, Francis G. Newlands.

The following concurrent resolutions were adopted by both Houses of Congress on January 15th, 1902:

Whereas the melancholy event of the violent and tragic death of William McKinley, late President
of the United States, having occurred during the recess of Congress, and the two Houses sharing
in the general grief and desiring to manifest their sensibility upon the occasion of the public
bereavement: Therefore,

Be it resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That the two Houses
of Congress will assemble in the Hall of the House of Representatives on a day and hour fixed
and announced by the joint committee, to wit, Thursday, February 27, 1902, and that, in the
presence of the two Houses there assembled, an address on the life and character of William
McKinley, late President of the United States, be pronounced by Hon. John Hay, and that the
President of the Senate pro tempore and the Speaker of the House of Representatives be requested
to invite the President and ex-President of the United States, ex-Vice-Presidents, the heads
of the several Departments, the judges of the Supreme Court, the representatives of the foreign
governments, the governors of the several States, the Lieutenant-General of the Army and the
Admiral of the Navy, and such officers of the Army and Navy as have received the thanks of
Congress who may then be at the seat of Government to be present on the occasion, and such
others as may be suggested by the executive committee.

And be it further resolved, That the President of the United States be requested to transmit
a copy of these resolutions to Mrs. Ida S. McKinley, and to assure her of the profound sympathy
of the two Houses of Congress for her deep personal affliction, and of their sincere condolence
for the late national bereavement.

