Mr. Roosevelt, for example, gives the common impression when he accuses the Socialists of using
the term "working class" in the narrow sense and of taking the position that "all wealth is
produced by manual workers, that the entire product of labor should be handed over to the laborer."[215]
I shall show that Socialist writers and speakers, even when they use the expression "working
class," almost universally include others than the manual laborers among those they expect
to make up the anti-capitalistic movement.

Kautsky's definition of the working class, for example, is: "Workers who are divorced from
their power of production to the extent that they can produce nothing by their own efforts,
and are therefore compelled in order to escape starvation to sell the only commodity they possess--their
labor power." In present-day society, especially in a rich country like America, it is as a
rule not sheer "starvation" that drives, but needs of other kinds that are almost as compelling.
But the point I am concerned with now is that this definition, widely accepted by Socialists,
draws no line whatever between manual and intellectual workers. In another place Kautsky refers
to the industrial working class as being the recruiting ground for Socialism, which might seem
to be giving a preferred position to manual workers; but a few paragraphs below he again qualifies
his statement by adding that "to the working class there belong, just as much as the wage earners,
the members of the new middle class," which I shall describe below.[216]

In other statements of their position, it is the context which makes the Socialist meaning
clear. The party Platform of Canada, for instance, uses throughout the simple term "working
class," without any explanation, but it speaks of the struggle as taking place against the
"capitalists," and as it mentions no other classes, the reader is left to divide all society
between these two, which would evidently make it necessary to classify many besides mere manual
wage earners rather among the anti-capitalist than among the capitalist forces.

The platform of the American Socialist Party in 1904 divided the population between the "capitalists,"
and the "working or producing class." "Between these two classes," says this platform, "there
can be no possible compromise ... except in the conscious and complete triumph of the working
class as the only class that has the right or power to be."

"By working people," said Liebknecht, "we do not understand merely the manual workers, but
every one who does not live on the labor of another." His words should be memorized by all
those who wish to understand the first principles of Socialism:--

     "Some maintain, it is true, that the wage-earning proletariat is
     the only really revolutionary class, that it alone forms the
     Socialist army, and that we ought to regard with suspicion all
     adherents belonging to other classes or other conditions of life.
     Fortunately these senseless ideas have never taken hold of the
     German Social Democracy.

     "The wage-earning class is most directly affected by capitalist
     exploitation; it stands face to face with those who exploit it, and
     it has the especial advantage of being concentrated in the
     factories and yards, so that it is naturally led to think things
     out more energetically and finds itself automatically organized
     into 'battalions of workers.' This state of things gives it a
     revolutionary character which no other part of society has to the
     same degree. We must recognize this frankly.

     "Every wage earner is either a Socialist already, or he is on the
     high road to becoming one.

     "We must not limit our conception of the term 'working class' too
     narrowly. As we have explained in speeches, tracts, and articles,
     we include in the working class all those who live exclusively or
     principally by means of their own labor, and who do not grow rich
     from the work of others.

     "Thus, besides the wage earners, we should include in the working
     class the small farmers and small shop keepers, who tend more and
     more to drop to the level of the proletariat--in other words, all
     those who suffer from our present system of production on a large
     scale." (My italics.)

The chief questions now confronting the Socialists are all connected, directly or indirectly,
with these producing middle classes, who, on the whole, do not live on the labor of others
and suffer from the present system, yet often enjoy some modest social privilege.

While Liebknecht considered that the wage-earning class was more revolutionary and Socialistic
than any other, he did not allow this for one moment to persuade him to give a subordinate
position to other classes in the movement, as he says:--

     "The unhappy situation of the small farmers almost all over Germany
     is as well known as that of the artisan movement. It is true that
     both small farmers and small shopkeepers are still in the camp of
     our adversaries, but only because they do not understand the
     profound causes that underlie their deplorable condition; it is of
     prime importance for our party to enlighten them and bring them
     over to our side. This is the vital question for our party,
     because these two classes form the majority of the nation.... We
     ought not to ask, 'Are you a wage earner?' but, 'Are you a
     Socialist?'

     "If it is limited to the wage earners, Socialism cannot conquer. If
     it included all the workers and the moral and intellectual élite of
     the nation, its victory is certain.... Not to contract, but to
     expand, ought to be our motto. The circle of Socialism should
     widen more and more, until we have converted most of our
     adversaries to being our friends, or at least disarm their
     opposition.

     "And the indifferent mass, that in peaceful days has no weight in
     the political balance, but becomes the decisive force in times of
     agitation, ought to be so fully enlightened as to the aims and the
     essential ideas of our party, that it would cease to fear us and
     can be no longer used as a weapon against us."[217] (My italics.)

Karl Kautsky, though he takes a less broad view, also says that the Socialist Party is "the
only anti-capitalist party,"[218] and contends in his recent pamphlet, "The Road to Power,"
that its recruiting ground in Germany includes three fourths of the nation, and probably even
more, which (even in Germany) would include a considerable part of those ordinarily listed
with the middle class.

Kautsky's is probably the prevailing opinion among German Socialists. Let us see how he proposes
to compose a Socialist majority. Of course his first reliance is on the manual laborers, skilled
and unskilled. Next come the professional classes, the salaried corporation employees, and
a large part of the office workers, which together constitute what Kautsky and the other Continental
Socialists call the new middle class. "Among these," Kautsky says, "a continually increasing
sympathy for the proletariat is evident, because they have no special class interest, and owing
to their professional, scientific point of view, are easiest won for our party through scientific
considerations. The theoretical bankruptcy of bourgeois economics, and the theoretical superiority
of Socialism, must become clear to them. Through their training, also, they must discover that
the other social classes continuously strive to debase art and science. Many others are impressed
by the fact of the irresistible advance of the Social Democracy. So it is that friendship for
labor becomes popular among the cultured classes, until there is scarcely a parlor in which
one does not stumble over one or more 'Socialists.'"

It is difficult to understand how it can be said that these classes have no special "class
interest," unless it is meant that their interest is neither that of the capitalists nor precisely
that of the industrial wage-earning class. And this, indeed, is Kautsky's meaning, for he seems
to minimize their value to the Socialists, because as a class they cannot be relied upon.

     "Heretofore, as long as Socialism was branded among all cultured
     classes as criminal or insane, capitalist elements could be brought
     into the Socialist movement only by a complete break with the
     whole capitalist world. Whoever came into the Socialist movement at
     that time from the capitalist element had need of great energy,
     revolutionary passion, and strong proletarian convictions. It was
     just this element which ordinarily constituted the most radical and
     revolutionary wing of the Socialist movement.

     "It is wholly different to-day, since Socialism has become a fad.
     It no longer demands any special energy, or any break with
     capitalist society to assume the name of Socialist. It is no
     wonder, then, that more and more these new Socialists remain
     entangled in their previous manner of thought and feeling.

     "The fighting tactics of the intellectuals are at any rate wholly
     different from those of the proletariat. To wealth and power of
     arms the latter opposes its overwhelming numbers and its thorough
     organization. The intellectuals are an ever diminishing minority,
     with no class organization whatever. Their only weapon is
     persuasion through speaking and writing, the battle with
     'intellectual weapons' and 'moral superiority,' and these 'parlor
     Socialists' would settle the proletarian class struggle also with
     these weapons. They declare themselves ready to grant the party
     their moral support, but only on condition that it renounces the
     idea of the application of force, and this not simply where force
     is hopeless,--there the proletariat has already renounced it,--but
     also in those places where it is still full of possibilities.
     Accordingly they seek to throw discredit on the idea of revolution,
     and to represent it as a useless means. They seek to separate off a
     social reform wing from the revolutionary proletariat, and they
     thereby divide and weaken the proletariat."[219]

In the last words Kautsky refers to the fact that although a large number of "intellectuals"
(meaning the educated classes) have come into the Socialist Party and remain there, they constitute
a separate wing of the movement. We must remember, however, that this same wing embraces, besides
these "parlor Socialists," a great many trade unionists, and that it has composed a very considerable
portion of the German Party, and a majority in some other countries of the Continent; and as
Kautsky himself admits that they succeed in "dividing the proletariat," they cannot be very
far removed politically from at least one of the divisions they are said to have created. It
is impossible to attribute the kind of Socialism to which Kautsky objects to the adhesion of
certain educated classes to the movement (for reasons indicated in Part II).

While many of the present spokesmen of Socialism are, like Kautsky, somewhat skeptical as to
the necessity of an alliance between the working class and this section of the middle class,
others accept it without qualification. If, then, we consider at once the middle ground taken
by the former group of Socialists, and the very positive and friendly attitude of the latter,
it must be concluded that the Socialist movement as a whole is convinced that its success depends
upon a fusion of at least these two elements, the wage earners and "the new middle class."

A few quotations from the well-known revolutionary Socialist, Anton Pannekoek, will show the
contrast between the narrower kind of Socialism, which still survives in many quarters, and
that of the majority of the movement. He discriminates even against "the new middle class,"
leaving nobody but the manual laborers as a fruitful soil for real Socialism.

     "To be sure, in the economic sense of the term, then, the new
     middle class are proletarians; but they form a very special group
     of wage workers, a group that is so sharply divided from the real
     proletarians that they form a special class with a special position
     in the class struggle.... Immediate need does not compel them as
     it does the real proletarians to attack the capitalist system.
     Their position may arouse discontent, but that of the workers is
     unendurable. For them Socialism has many advantages, for the
     workers it is an absolute necessity." (My italics.)[220]

     The phrase "absolute necessity" is unintelligible. It is
     comparatively rarely that need arises to the height of actual
     compulsion, and when it does instances are certainly just as common
     among clerks as they are among bricklayers.

     Pannekoek introduces a variety of arguments to sustain his
     position. For instance, that "the higher strata among the new
     middle class have a definitely capitalistic character. The lower
     ones are more proletarian, but there is no sharp dividing line."
     This is true--but the high strata in every class are capitalistic.
     The statement applies equally well to railway conductors, to
     foremen, and to many classes of manual workers.

     "And then, too," Pannekoek continues, "they, the new middle class,
     have more to fear from the displeasure of their masters, and
     dismissal for them is a much more serious matter. The worker stands
     always on the verge of starvation, and so unemployment has few
     terrors for him. The high-class employee, on the contrary, has
     comparatively an easy life, and a new position is difficult to
     find."

     Now it is precisely the manual laborer who is most often
     blacklisted by the large corporations and trusts; and the
     brain-working employee is better able to adapt himself to some
     slightly different employment than is the skilled worker in any of
     the highly specialized trades.

     "For the cause of Socialism we can count on this new middle
     class," says Pannekoek, "even less than on the labor unions. For
     one thing, they have been set over the workers, as superintendents,
     overseers, bosses, etc. In these capacities they are supposed to
     speed up the workers to get the utmost out of them."

     Is it not even more common, we may ask, that one manual worker is
     set over another than that a brain worker is set over a manual
     laborer?

     "They [the new middle class] are divided," writes Pannekoek, "into
     numberless grades and ranks arranged one above the other; they do
     not meet as comrades, and so cannot develop the spirit of
     solidarity. Each individual does not make it a matter of personal
     pride to improve the condition of his entire class; the important
     thing is rather that he personally struggles up into the next
     higher rank."

     If we remember the more favorable hours and conditions under which
     the brain workers are employed, the fact that they are not so
     exhausted physically and that they have education, we may see that
     they have perhaps even greater chances "to develop their
     solidarity" and to understand their class interests than have the
     manual workers. It is true that they are more divided at the
     present time, but there is a tendency throughout all the highly
     organized industries to divide the manual laborers in the same way
     and to secure more work from them by a similar system of
     promotions.

     Pannekoek accuses the brain workers of having something to lose,
     again forgetting that there are innumerable groups of more or less
     privileged manual laborers who are in the same position. And
     finally, he contends that their superior schooling and education is
     a disadvantage when compared to the lack of education of the manual
     laborers:--

     "They have great notions of their own education and refinement,
     feel themselves above the masses; it naturally never occurs to them
     that the ideals of these masses may be scientifically correct and
     that the 'science' of their professors may be false. As theorizers
     seeing the world always with their minds, knowing little or nothing
     of material activities, they are fairly convinced that mind
     controls the world."

     On the contrary, nearly all influential Socialist thinkers agree
     that present-day science, poorly as it is taught, is not only an
     aid to Socialism, but the very best basis for it.

     Pannekoek is right, for instance, when he says that most of the
     brain workers in the Socialist movement come from the circles of
     the small capitalists and bring an anti-Socialist prejudice with
     them, but he forgets that, on the other side, the overwhelming
     majority of the world's working people are the children of farmers,
     peasants, or of absolutely unskilled and illiterate workers, whose
     views of life were even more prejudiced and whose minds were
     perhaps even more filled up with the ideas that the ruling classes
     have placed there.

The arguments of the American Socialist, Thomas Sladden, representing as they do the views
of many thousands of revolutionary workingmen in this country, are also worthy of note. His
bitterness, it will be seen, is leveled less against capitalism itself than against what he
considers to be intrusion of certain middle-class elements into Socialist ranks.

     "We find in the United States to-day," writes Sladden, "that we
     have created several new religions, one of the most interesting of
     which is called Socialism, and is the religion of a decadent middle
     class. This fake Socialism or middle-class religion can readily be
     distinguished from the real Socialist movement, which is simply the
     wage working class in revolt on both the industrial and political
     fields against present conditions.... Yesterday I was a bad
     capitalist--to-day I am a good Socialist, but I pay my wage slaves
     the same wages to-day as I did yesterday.... They never take the
     answer of Bernard Shaw, who, when asked by a capitalist what he
     could do, saying that he could not help being a capitalist, was
     answered in this manner: You can go and crack rock if you want to;
     no one forces you to be a capitalist, but you are a capitalist
     because you want to be. No one forces Hillquit to be a lawyer; he
     could get a job in a lumber yard. There is no more excuse for a man
     being a capitalist or a lawyer than there is for him being a
     Pinkerton detective. He is either by his own free will and accord.
     The system,--they acclaim in one breath,--the system makes us do
     what we do not wish to do. The system does nothing of the kind; the
     system gives a man the choice between honest labor and dishonest
     labor skinning, and a labor skinner is a labor skinner because he
     wishes to be, just the same as some men are pickpockets because
     they wish to be."

It can readily be realized that such arguments will always have great weight with the embittered
elements of the working class. Nor do the most representative Socialists altogether disagree
with Sladden. They, too, feel that if the war is not levied against individuals, neither is
it levied against a mere abstract system, but against a ruling class. However, they make exceptions
for such capitalists as the late Paul Singer, who definitely abandon their class and throw
in their lot with the Socialist movement, while Sladden would admit neither Singer, nor those
other millions mentioned by Liebknecht (see above), for he demands that the Socialist Party
must declare that "no one not eligible to the labor unions of the United States is eligible
to the Socialist Party."

The high-water mark of this brand of revolutionism was reached in the State of Washington,
when these revolutionary elements in the Socialist Party withdrew to form a new workingmen's
party, the chief novelty of which was a plank dividing the organization into "an active list
and an assistant list, only wage workers being admitted to the active list." The wage workers
were defined as the class of modern wage laborers who, having no means of production of their
own, are reduced to selling their labor power in order to live. These are the active list,
and they alone hold office and vote. "The assistant list cannot hold office and cannot vote,"
and the Party will "do active organizing work among wage earners alone." This reminds one very
much of the notorious division into active and passive citizens at the early stages of the
French Revolution, which gave such a splendid opportunity to the Jacobines to organize a revolt
of the passive citizens and was one of the chief causes leading up to the Reign of Terror and
the Napoleonic reaction that followed. The Washington plan, however, has been a complete failure.
It has had no imitators in the Socialist movement, nor is it likely to have.

On the other hand, the most influential representatives of the extreme revolutionary wing of
the movement, like Hervé in France, have championed the non-wage-earning elements of the movement
as fearlessly as the reformists.

     "In the ranks of our party," writes Hervé, "are to be found small
     merchants, small employers, wretched, impoverished, educated
     people, small peasant proprietors, none of whom on account of
     occupation can enter into the general Federation of Labor, which
     only admits those receiving wages and salaries. These are
     revolutionary elements which cannot be neglected; these volunteers
     of the Revolution who have often a beautiful revolutionary
     temperament would be lost for the Revolution if our political
     organization was not at hand to nourish their activity. Besides,
     the General Federation of Labor is a somewhat heavy mass; it will
     become more and more heavy as it comprises the majority of the
     working class which is by nature rather pacific at the bottom."

While there is no sufficient reason for the accusation that the Socialist movement neglects
the brain workers of the salaried and professional classes, there is somewhat more solid ground,
in spite of the above quoted declarations of Liebknecht and Hervé, for the accusation that
it antagonizes those sections of the middle classes which are, even to a slight degree, small
capitalists, as, for example, especially the farmers.

"The unimaginative person," says Mr. H. G. Wells, "who owns some little bit of property, an
acre or so of freehold land, or a hundred pounds in the savings bank, will no doubt be the
most tenacious passive resister to Socialist ideas; and such I fear we must reckon, together
with the insensitive rich, as our irreconcilable enemies, as irremovable pillars of the present
order."[221]

This view is widespread among Socialists, and is even sustained by Kautsky. "Small merchants
and innkeepers," he writes, "have despaired of ever rising by their own exertions; they expect
everything from above and look only to the upper classes and to the government for assistance,"
though they "find their customers only in laboring circles, so that their existence is absolutely
dependent upon the prosperity or adversity of the laboring classes." The contradiction Kautsky
finds goes even further. He says, "Servility depends upon reaction--and furnishes not only
the willing supporters, but the fanatical advocates of the monarchy, the church, and the nobility."
With all this they (the shopkeepers, etc.) remain democratic, since it is only through democracy
that they can obtain political influence. Kautsky calls them the "reactionary democracy."[222]
But if they are democratic and in part economically dependent on the laboring classes, then
why should not this part cast its lot economically and politically with the working class?

Kautsky extends his criticism of the small capitalists very far and even seems in doubt concerning
the owners of small investments such as savings bank deposits. "Well-meaning optimists," he
says, "have seen in this a means of decentralizing capital, so that after a while, in the most
peaceable manner, without any one noticing it, capital would be transformed into social property.
In fact, this movement really means the transformation of all the money of the middle and lower
classes, which is not used by them for immediate consumption, into money capital, and as such
placing it at the disposal of the great financiers for the buying out of industrial managers,
and thereby assisting in the concentration on industry in the hands of a few financiers."

The classes which have invested their capital directly or indirectly in stocks or bonds through
savings banks and through insurance companies number many millions, and include the large majority
of all sections of the middle class, even of its most progressive part, salaried employees,
and the professional element. It is undoubtedly true, as Kautsky says, that small investors
are not obtaining any direct control over capital, and that their funds are used in the way
he points out, constituting one of the striking and momentous tendencies of the time. But it
does not follow that they are destined to lose such investments altogether, as the legislative
reforms to protect banks may be extended to the railroads and other forms of investments. The
small investors will scarcely be turned to favor capitalism by their investments, which bring
in small profit and allow them nothing to say in the management of industry, but neither will
the losses they sometimes suffer from this source be sufficient in themselves to convert them
into allies of the working class.

As in the case of the farmers and small shopkeepers, everything here depends upon the economic
and political program which the working class develops and offers in competition with the "State
Socialism" of the capitalists. If it were true that the ownership of the smallest amount of
property brings it about that Socialism is no longer desired, not a small minority of the population
will be found aligned with the capitalists, but all the four million owners of farms, and the
other millions with a thousand dollars or so invested in a building and loan association, an
insurance policy or a savings bank deposit, a total numbering almost half of the occupied population.
A bare majority, it is true, might still be without any stake in the community even of this
modest character. But neither in the United States nor elsewhere is there any hope that a majority
of the absolutely propertyless, even if it becomes a large one, will become sufficiently large
within a generation, or perhaps even within a century, to enable it to overthrow the capitalists,
unless it draws over to its side certain elements at least, of the middle classes, who, though
weaker in some respects are better educated, better placed, and politically stronger than itself.
The revolutionary spokesmen of the international Socialist movement now recognize this as clearly
as do the most conservative observers.

The outcome of the great social struggle depends on the relative success of employers and employed
in gaining the support of those classes which, either on account of their ownership of some
slight property, or because they receive salaries or fees sufficiently large, must be placed
in the middle class, but who cannot be classified primarily as small capitalists That this
is the crux of the situation is recognized on all sides. Mr. Winston Churchill, for instance,
demands that everything be done to strengthen and increase numerically this middle class, composed
of millions of persons whom he claims "would certainly lose by anything like a general overturn,
and ... are everywhere the strongest and the best organized millions," and his "State Socialism"
is directed chiefly to that end. He believes that these millions, once become completely converted
into small capitalists, would certainly prevent by an overwhelming resistance any effort on
the part of the rest of the people to gain what he curiously calls, "a selfish advantage."

Mr. Churchill says that "the masses of the people should not use the fact that they are in
a majority as a means to advance their relative position in society." There could not be a
sharper contrast between "State Socialism" and Socialism. To Socialists the whole duty of man
as a social being is to persuade the masses to "use the fact that they are in a majority as
a means to advance their relative position in society." Mr. Churchill seems to feel that as
long as everybody shares more or less in the general increase of prosperity from generation
to generation, and, as he says, as long as there is "an ever increasing volume of production
and an increasing wide diffusion of profit," there is no ground for complaint--whether the
relative division of wealth and opportunity between the many and the few becomes more equal
or not. But he realizes that his moral suasion is not likely to be heeded and is wise in putting
his trust in the middle-class millions. For these are the bone of contention between capitalism
and Socialism.

While the new middle class (that is, the lower salaried classes, corporation employees, professional
men, etc.) is increasing numerically more rapidly than any other, large numbers within it are
being deprived of any hope of rising into the wealthy or privileged class. As a consequence
they are everywhere crowding into the Socialist ranks--by the hundred thousand in countries
where the movement is oldest. Even in the organized Socialist parties these middle-class elements
everywhere form a considerable proportion of the whole. Practically a third of the American
Party according to a recent reckoning were engaged either in farming (15 per cent) or in commercial
(9 per cent) or professional pursuits (5 per cent).

It is plain that certain sections of the so-called middle class are not only welcomed by Socialist
parties, but constitute their most dependable and indispensable elements. Indeed, the majority
of the Socialists agree with Kautsky that the danger lies in the opposite direction, that an
unreliable small capitalist element has been admitted that will make trouble until it leaves
the movement, in other words, that Socialist friendship for these classes has gone to the point
of risking the existence of their organization. Surely their presence is a guarantee that Socialists
have not been ruled by the working class or proletarian "fetish," against which Marx warned
them more than half a century ago.

FOOTNOTES:

[207] The American Magazine, October, 1911.

[208] Winston Churchill, op. cit., p. 389.

[209] Die Neue Zeit, Oct. 27, 1911.

[210] Speech just before Congressional Elections of 1910.

[211] Speech delivered by Mr. Roosevelt, Dec. 13, 1910.

[212] John Spargo, "Karl Marx."

[213] Edward Bernstein, "Evolutionary Socialism," p. 143.

[214] Karl Kautsky, "The Social Revolution," pp. 58-59.

[215] The Outlook, March 13, 1909.

[216] Karl Kautsky in Vorwaerts (Berlin), Feb. 7, 1909.

[217] Quoted by Jaurès, "Studies in Socialism," p. 103.

[218] Karl Kautsky, "Erfurter Programm," p. 258.

[219] Karl Kautsky, "The Social Revolution," pp. 48-49.

[220] The International Socialist Review (Chicago), October, 1911.

[221] H. G. Wells, "This Misery of Boots," p. 34.

[222] Karl Kautsky, "The Social Revolution," p. 51.

CHAPTER II

THE AGRICULTURAL CLASSES AND THE LAND QUESTION

I have pointed out the relation of the Socialist movement to all classes but one,--the agriculturists,--a
class numerically next in importance to the industrial wage earners.

On the one hand most agriculturists are small capitalists, who, even when they do not own their
farms, are often forced to-day to invest a considerable sum in farm animals and machinery,
in rent and interest and in wages at the harvest season; on the other hand, a large part of
the farmers work harder and receive less for their work than skilled laborers, while the amount
they own, especially when tenants, scarcely exceeds what it has cost many skilled workers to
learn their trade. Are the great majority of farmers, then, rather small capitalists or laborers?

For many years Socialists paid comparatively little attention to the problem. How was it then
imagined that a political program could obtain the support of the majority of the voters without
presenting to the agricultural population as satisfactory a solution of their difficulties
as that it offered to the people of the towns? On the other hand, how was it possible to adapt
a program frankly "formulated by or for the workingmen of large-scale industry" to the conditions
of agriculture?

The estimate of the rural population that has hitherto prevailed among the Socialists of most
countries may be seen from the following language of Kautsky's:--

     "We have already seen how the peasant's production [that of the
     small farmer] isolates men. The capitalists' means of production
     and the modern State, to be sure, have a powerful tendency to put
     an end to the isolation of the peasant through taxation, military
     service, railways, and newspapers. But the increase of the points
     of contact between town and country as a rule only have the effect
     that the peasant farmer feels his desolation and isolation less
     keenly. They raise him up as a peasant farmer, but awake in him a
     longing for the town; they drive all the most energetic and
     independently thinking elements from the country into the towns,
     and rob the former of its forces. So that the progress of modern
     economic life has the effect of increasing the desolation and
     lonesomeness of the country rather than ending it.

     "The truth is that in every country the agricultural population is
     economically and politically the most backward. That does not imply
     any reflection on it; it is its misfortune, but it is a fact with
     which one must deal."[223]

Not only Kautsky and Vandervelde, but whole Socialist parties like those of Austria and Germany,
are given to the exploitation of the supposed opposition between town and country, the producer
and the consumer of agricultural products. At the German Socialist Congress of 1911, Bebel
declared that to-day those who were most in need of protection were the consumers of agricultural
products, the workingmen, lower middle classes and employees. He felt the day was approaching
when the increased cost of living would form the chief question before the German people, the
day when the German people would raise a storm and tear down the tariffs on the necessaries
of life as well as other measures that unduly favor the agriculturists--while the proposal
of socialization would come up first in the field of agriculture.

While, in view of the actual level of prices in Germany, there is no doubt that even the smallest
of the agriculturists are getting some share of the spoils of the tariffs and other measures
Bebel mentions, there can also be little question that in such a storm of revolt as he predicts
the pendulum would swing too far the other way, and they would suffer unjustly. It is true
that the agriculturist produces bread, while the city worker consumes it, but so also do shoe
workers produce shoes that are consumed by garment workers, and certainly no Socialist predicts
any lasting struggle between producers of shoes and producers of clothing. It is true also
that if the wage earner's condition is to be improved, some limit must be set to prices as
wages are raised. But the flour manufacturer and the baker must be restrained as well as the
grain producer. Nor do Socialists expect to accomplish much by the mere regulation of prices.
And when it comes to their remedy, socialization, there is less reason, as I shall show, for
beginning with land rent than with industrial capital, and the Socialist parties of France
and America recognize this fact.

But it is the practical result of this supposed opposition of town and country rather than
its inconsistency with Socialist principles that must hold our attention. Certainly no agricultural
program and no appeal to the agricultural population, perhaps not even one addressed to agricultural
laborers, can hope for success while this view of the opposition of town and country is maintained;
for all agriculturists want what they consider to be reasonable prices for their products,
and their whole life depends directly or indirectly on these prices. When the workmen agitate,
as they so often do in Europe, for cheap bread and meat, without qualifying their agitation
by any regard for the agriculturists, all hope of obtaining the support of any of the agricultural
classes, even laborers, is for the time being abandoned.

The predominance of town over country is so important to Kautsky that he even opposes such
a vital piece of democratic reform as direct legislation where the town-country population
is the more numerous than that of the towns. "We have seen" he says, "that the modern representative
system is not very favorable to the peasantry or to the small capitalists, especially of the
country towns. The classes which the representative system most favors are the large owners
of capital or land, the highly educated, and under a democratic electoral system, the militant
and class-conscious part of the industrial working class. So in general one can say parliamentarism
favors the population of the large towns as against that of the country."

Far from being disturbed at this unjust and unequal system, Kautsky prefers that it should
not be reformed, unless the town population are in a majority. "Direct legislation by the people
works against these tendencies of parliamentarism. If the latter strives to place the political
balance of power in the population of the large towns, the former puts it in the masses of
the population, but these still live everywhere and for the most part in a large majority,
with the exception of England, in the country and in the small country towns. Direct legislation
takes away from the population of the large towns their special political influence, and subjects
them to the country population."[224]

He concludes that wherever and as long as the agricultural population remains in a majority,
the Socialists have no special reason to work for direct legislation.

Of course Kautsky and his school do not expect this separation or antagonism of agriculture
and industry to last very far into the future. But as long as capitalism lasts they believe
agriculturists will play an entirely subordinate rôle in politics. "While the capitalist mode
of production increases visibly the difficulties of the formation of a revolutionary class
(in the country), it favors it in the towns," he says. "It there concentrates the laboring
masses, creates conditions favorable to every organization for their mental evolution and for
their class struggle.... It debilitates the country, disperses the agricultural workers over
vast areas, isolates them, robs them of all means of mental development and resistance to exploitation."[225]

Similarly Vandervelde quotes from Voltaire's essay on customs a sentence describing the European
peasantry of a hundred and fifty years ago as "savages living in cabins with their females
and a few animals," and asks, "who would dare to pretend that these words have lost all their
reality?" He admits that "rural barbarism has decreased," but still considers the peasantry,
not as a class which must take an active part in bringing about Socialism, but as one to which
"conquering Socialism will bring political liberty and social equality."[226]

Kautsky says that either the small farmer is not really independent, and pieces out his income
by hiring himself out occasionally to some larger landowner or other employer, or else, if
entirely occupied with his own work, that he manages to compete with large-scale cultivation
only "by overwork and underconsumption, by barbarism, as Marx says."

"To-day the situation of the city proletariat," Kautsky adds, "is already so superior to the
barbaric situation of the older peasants, that the younger peasants' generation is leaving
the fields along with the class of rural wage earners." There can be no question that small
farms, those without permanent hired labor, survive competition with the larger and better
equipped, only by overwork and underconsumption. But the unfavorable comparison with city wage
earners and the repetition to-day of Marx's term "barbarism" is no longer justified. Where
these conditions still exist, they are due largely to special legal obstacles placed in the
way of European peasants, and to legal privileges given to the great landlords,--in other words,
to remnants of feudalism. Kautsky's error in making this as a statement of general application
would seem to be based on a confusion of the survivals of feudalism, as seen in some parts
of Europe, with the necessary conditions of agricultural production, as seen in this country.

Kautsky himself has lately given full recognition to another factor in the agricultural situation--the
horrors of wage slavery, which acts in the very opposite manner to these feudal conditions
and prevents both small agriculturists and agricultural laborers from immigrating to the towns
in greater numbers than they do, and persuades them in spite of its drudgery to prefer the
life of the owner of a small farm.

"Since labor in large-scale industry takes to-day the repulsive form of wage labor," he says,
"many owners of small properties keep holding on to them with the greatest sacrifices, for
the sole purpose of avoiding falling into the serfdom and insecurity of wage labor. Only Socialism
can put an end to small production, not of course by the forceful ejection of small owners,
but by giving them an opportunity to work for the perfected large establishments with a shortened
working day and a larger income."[227] Surely there is little ground to lay special stress
on the "barbarism" of small farms, if such a large proportion of farmers and agricultural laborers
prefer it on good grounds to "the serfdom and insecurity" of labor on large farms or in manufacturing
establishments.

It is doubtless chiefly because European conditions are such as to make the conversion of the
majority of agriculturists difficult, that so many European Socialists claim that an existing
or prospective preponderance of manufacturers makes it unnecessary. But, while in many countries
of Europe the remnants of feudalism, or rather of eighteenth-century absolutism and landlord
rule, to which this backward political condition is largely due, have not only survived, but
have been modernized, through the protection extended to large estates, so as to become a part
and parcel of modern capitalism, this condition does not promise to be at all lasting. There
are already signs of change in the agricultural sections of Bohemia, Hungary, and Italy, while
in France, where the political influence of the large landlord class is rapidly on the decline,
the Socialists have appealed successfully, under certain conditions, not only to agricultural
laborers, but also to small independent farmers.

As Socialists come to take a world view, giving due prominence to countries like France and
the United States, where agriculture has had its freest development, they grow away from the
older standpoint and give more attention to the rural population. The rapid technical evolution
of agriculture and the equally rapid changes in the ownership of land in a country like the
United States have encouraged our Socialists to reëxamine the whole question. I cannot enter
into a discussion, even the most cursory, of agricultural evolution in this country, but a
few indications from the census of 1910 will show the general tendencies.

Farm owners and tenants probably now have $45,000,000,000 in property (1910), fully a third
of the national wealth, and with 6,340,000 farms they are just about a third of our population.
This calculation does not allow for interest (where farmers have borrowed) or rent (where they
are tenants); on the other hand, it does not allow for the fact that many farmers have bank
accounts and outside investments. But it indicates the prosperity of a large part of the farming
class.

The value of the land of the average farm has doubled since 1900 ($2271 in 1900--$4477 in 1910)
in spite of a decrease in the size of farms, while the amount spent for labor increased 80
per cent, which the statistics show was due in part to higher wages, but in larger part to
the greater amount of labor and the greater number of laborers used. Other expenditures increased
almost proportionately, and the capital employed in land, buildings, machinery, fertilizers,
and labor has almost doubled in this short period. As prices advanced less than 25 per cent
during the decade, all these increases were largely real. The gross income of the average farm
owner, measured in what it could buy, evidently rose by more than 50 per cent, and his real
net income nearly as fast. The average farm owner then was receiving a fair share of the increase
of the national wealth.

But farmers cannot profitably be considered as a single class. Tenants are rarely at the same
time landlords. Farmers paying interest are usually not the same as those holding mortgages.
A few of the debtors may be very successful men who borrow only to buy more land and hire more
labor. But very few tenants are in this class. We may safely assume that those who own without
a mortgage or employ labor steadily with one are getting more than an average share of the
national wealth, while tenants or those who have mortgaged their land heavily and do not regularly
hire labor (except at harvest) are, in the average case, getting less. Investments of borrowed
money in the best machinery or farm animals by a single family working alone and on a very
small scale, may give a good return above interest, but this return is strictly limited unless
with most exceptional or most fortunate persons.

Now the statistics of the increase of agricultural wages show that they rose in no such proportion
as the increase of agricultural capital--and the possibility of a farm hand saving his wages
and becoming the owner of one of these more and more costly farms is more remote than ever.
But there is a third solution--the agricultural laborer may neither remain a laborer nor become
an owner. If he can accumulate enough capital for machinery, horses, farm animals, and seed,
he can pay for the use of the land from his annual product, he can become a tenant. On the
other side, if the value of the usual 160-acre homestead rises to $20,000 or $30,000, the owner
is easily able to make a few thousand dollars in addition by selling his farm animals and machinery
and to retire to the country town and live on his rent.

It is evident that the position of most of these farm tenants is very close to that of laborers.
Though working on their own account, it is so difficult for them to make a living that they
are forced to the longest hours and to the exploitation of their wives and children under all
possible and impossible circumstances. Already farm tenants are almost as numerous in this
country as farm owners. The census figures indicated that the proportion of tenants had risen
from 23 per cent in 1880 to 37 per cent in 1910. Not only this, but a closer inspection of
the figures by States will show that, whereas in new States like Minnesota, where tenancy has
not had time to develop, it embraced in 1900 less than 20 per cent of the total number of farms,
in many older States the percentage had already risen high above 40. This increase of tenants
proves an approach of the United States to the fundamental economic condition of older countries--the
divorce of land cultivation from land ownership, and the census of 1910 shows that three eighths
of the farms of the United States are already in that condition.

Land and hired labor are the chief sources of agricultural wealth, and capital is most productive
only when it is invested in these as well as other means of production. That is, if the small
farmer is really a small capitalist, if he is to receive a return from his capital as well
as his own individual and that of his family labor, he must, as a rule, either have enough
capital to provide work for others and his family, or he must get a share of the unearned increment
through the ownership of his farm, or long leases without revaluation. Farm tenants who do
not habitually employ labor, or those whose mortgages are so heavy as practically to place
them in the position of such tenants, are, for these reasons, undoubtedly accessible to Socialist
ideas--as long as they remain farm tenants.

But now after discarding all the European prejudices above referred to, let us look at the
other side. Tenants everywhere belong to those classes which, as Kautsky truly says, in the
passage quoted in a previous chapter, are also a recruiting ground for the capitalists. They
are more likely to be the owners of the capital, now a considerable sum, needed to operate
a small farm (cattle, machinery, etc.) than are farm laborers, and it is for their benefit
chiefly that the various governmental plans for creating new small farms through irrigation,
reclamation, and the division of large estates are contrived. And it is even possible that
practically all the present tenants may some day be provided for.

By maintaining or creating small farms then, or providing for a system of long leases and small-sized
allotments of governmentally owned land, guaranteed against any raise in rents during the term
of the lease, capitalist governments may gradually succeed in firmly attaching the larger part
of the struggling small farmers and farm tenants to capitalism. While still in the individualistic
form capitalism will establish, wherever it can, privately owned small farms; when it will
have adopted the collectivist policy, it will inaugurate a system of national ownership and
long leases.

Even the small farmer who hires no labor, and does not even own his farm, will probably be
held, as a class, by capitalism, but only by the collectivist capitalism of the future, which
will probably protect him from landlordism by keeping the title to the land, but dividing the
unearned increment with him by a system of long leases, and using its share of this increment
for the promotion of agriculture and for other purposes he approves.

Socialists, then, do not expect to include in their ranks in considerable numbers, either agricultural
employers or such tenants, laborers, or farm owners as are becoming, or believe they will become,
employers (either under present governments or under collectivist capitalism).

Only when the day finally comes when Socialism begins to exert a pressure on the government
adversely to the interest of the capitalist class will higher wages and new governmental expenditures
on wage earners begin to reverse conditions automatically, making labor dearer, small farms
which employ labor less profitable, and a lease of government land less desirable, for example,
than the position of a skilled employee on a model government farm. All governments will then
be forced by the farming population itself to lend more and more support to the Socialist policy
of great national municipal or county farms, rather than to the artificial promotion or small-scale
agriculture.

For the present and the near future the only lasting support Socialists can find in the country
is from the surplus of agricultural laborers and perhaps a certain part of the tenants, i.e.
those who cannot be provided for even if all large estates are everywhere divided into small
farms, all practicable works of reclamation and irrigation completed, and scientific methods
introduced--and who will find no satisfactory opportunity in neighboring countries. It must
be acknowledged that such tenants at present form no very large part of the agricultural population
in the United States. On the other hand, agriculturists are even less backward here than in
Europe, and there is less opposition between town and country, and both these facts favor rural
Socialism.

If, however, the majority of farmers must remain inaccessible to Socialism until the great
change is at hand, this is not because they are getting an undue share of the national wealth
or because they are private property fanatics, or because agriculturists are economically and
politically backward, or because they are hostile to labor, though all this is true of many,
but because of all classes, they are the most easily capable of being converted into (or perpetuated
as) small capitalists by the reforms of the capitalist statesman in search of reliable and
numerically important political support.

I have shown the attitude of the Socialists towards each of the agricultural classes--their
belief that they will be able to attach to themselves the agricultural laborers and those tenants
and independent farmers who are neither landlords nor steady employers, nor expect to become
such. But what now is the attitude of laborers, tenants, etc., towards Socialism, and what
program do the Socialists offer to attract them? Let us first consider a few general reforms
on which all Socialists would agree and which would be acceptable to all classes of agriculturists.
Socialists differ upon certain fundamental alterations in their program which have been proposed
in order to adapt it to agriculture. Aside from these, all Socialist parties wish to do everything
that is possible to attract agriculturists. They favor such measures as the nationalization
of forests, irrigation, state fire insurance, the nationalization of transportation, the extension
of free education and especially of free agricultural education, the organization of free medical
assistance, graduated income and inheritance taxes, and the decrease of military expenditures,
etc. It will be seen that all these reforms are such as might be, and often are, adopted by
parties which have nothing to do with Socialism. Community ownership of forests and national
subsidies for roads are urged by so conservative a body as Mr. Roosevelt's Commission on Country
Life. They are all typical "State Socialist" (i.e. State capitalist) measures, justifiable
and indispensable, but not intimately related with the program of Socialism. The indorsement
of such measures might indeed assure the Socialists the friendly coöperation of political factions
representing the agriculturists, but it could scarcely secure for them the same partisan support
in the country as they have obtained from the workingmen of the towns.

Besides such legislative reforms as the above, the Socialists generally favor legislative encouragement
for every form of agricultural coöperation. Kautsky says that coöperative associations limited
to purchase or sale, or for financing purposes, have no special connection with Socialism,
but favors productive coöperation, and in France this is one of the chief measures advocated
by the most ardent of the Socialist agriculturist agitators, Compère-Morel, who was elected
to the Chamber of Deputies from an agricultural district. Compère-Morel notes that the above-mentioned
governmental measures of the State Socialistic variety are likely to be introduced by reformers
who have no sympathy either with Socialism or with labor unions, and as a counterweight he
lays a great emphasis on coöperative organizations for production, which could work with the
labor unions and their coöperative stores and also with Socialist municipalities. In France
and elsewhere there is already a strong movement to municipalize the milk supply, the municipalization
of slaughterhouses is far advanced, and municipal bakeries are a probability of the near future.
Such coöperative organizations, however, like the legislative proposals above mentioned, are
already so widely in actual operation and are so generally supported by powerful non-Socialist
organizations that Socialist support can be of comparatively little value.

There is no reason why a collectivist but capitalist democracy should not favor both associations
for productive coöperation and friendly relations between these and collectivist municipalities;
nor why they should fail to favor an enlightened labor policy in such cases, at least as far
as the resulting increase of efficiency in the laborer justified it, i.e. as long as his product
rises, as a result of such reforms, faster than what it costs to introduce them.

Socialists also favor the nationalization of the land, but without the expropriation of self-employing
farmers, as these are felt to be more sinned against than sinning. "With the present conservative
nature of our farmers, it is highly probable that a number of them would [under Socialism]
continue to work in the present manner," Kautsky says. "The proletarian governmental power
would have absolutely no inclination to take over such little businesses. As yet no Socialist
who is to be taken seriously has ever demanded that the farmers should be expropriated, or
that their goods should be confiscated. It is much more probable that each little farmer would
be permitted to work on as he has previously done. The farmer has nothing to fear from a Socialist
régime. Indeed, it is highly probable," he adds, "that these agricultural industries would
receive considerable strengthening through the new régime."

Socialists generally agree with Mr. A. M. Simons's resolution at the last American Socialist
Convention (1910): "So long as tools are used merely by individual handicraftsmen, they present
no problem of ownership which the Socialist is compelled to solve. The same is true of land.
Collective ownership is urged by the Socialist, not as an end in itself, not as a part of a
Utopian scheme, but as the means of preventing exploitation, and wherever individual ownership
is an agency of exploitation, then such ownership is opposed by Socialism."[228]

Exploitation here refers to the employment of laborers, and this is the central point of the
Socialist policy. To the Socialists the land question and the labor question are one. Every
agricultural policy must deal with both. If we were confronted to-day exclusively by large
agricultural estates, the Socialist policy would be the same as in other industries. All agricultural
capital would be nationalized or municipalized as fast as it became sufficiently highly organized
to make this practicable. And as the ground rent can be taken separately, and with the least
difficulty, this would be the first to go. Agricultural labor, in the meanwhile, would be organized
and as the day approached when the Socialists were about to gain control of the government,
and the wages of government employees began rapidly to rise, those of agricultural and all
other privately employed labor would rise also, until private profits were destroyed and the
process of socialization brought rapidly to completion.

But where the scale of production is so small that the farmer and his family do the work and
do not habitually hire outside labor, the whole case is different. The chief exploitation here
is self-exploitation. The capital owned is so small that it may be compared in value with the
skilled worker's trade education, especially when we consider the small return it brings in,
allowing for wages for the farmer and his family. Even though, as owner, he receives that part
of the rise in the value of his land due to the general increase of population and wealth and
not to his own labor (the unearned increment), his income is less than that of many skilled
laborers.

Two widely different policies are for these reasons adopted by all reformers when dealing with
large agricultural estates and small self-employing farmers. On this point there is little
room for difference of opinion. But small farmers are not a sharply defined class. They are
constantly recruited from agricultural laborers and tenants on the one hand, and are constantly
becoming employing farmers on the other--or the process may take the opposite course, large
farms may break up and small farmers may become laborers--for all or a part of their time.
All agricultural reforms may be viewed not only in their relation to existing small farmers,
but as to their effect on the increase or decrease of the relative proportions of small self-employing
farmers, of employing farmers, and of agricultural laborers.

And here appears the fundamental distinction between the Socialist program and that of collectivist
capitalism as far as the small farmers are concerned. Socialists agree in wanting to aid those
small farmers who are neither capitalists nor employers on a sufficient scale to classify them
with those elements, but they neither wish to perpetuate the system of small farms nor to obstruct
the development of the more productive large-scale farming and the normal increase of an agricultural
working class ready for coöperative or governmental employment. They point to the universal
law that large-scale production is more economical, and show that this applies to agriculture.
Small farming strictly limits the point to which the income of the agricultural population
can rise, prevents the cheapening of the production of food, and furnishes a constant stream
of cheap labor composed of discontented agricultural laborers who prefer the more steady income,
limited hours, and better conditions of wage earners.

     "Even the most energetic champions of small farming," says Kautsky,
     "do not make the least attempt to show its superiority, as this
     would be a hopeless task. What they maintain is only the
     superiority of labor on one's own property to wage labor for a
     strange exploiter.... But if the large farm offers the greater
     possibility of lessening the work of the agricultural laborers,
     then it would be a betrayal of the latter to set before them as a
     goal, not the capture and technical development of large forms, but
     their break up into numerous small farms. That would mean nothing
     less than a willingness to perpetuate the drudgery under which the
     agricultural laborers and small farmers now suffer."[229]

But how shall Socialists aid small farmers without increasing the number of small farms? It
might be thought that the nationalization of the land would solve the problem. The government,
once become the general landlord, could use the rent fund to improve the condition of all classes
of agriculturists, without unduly favoring any, agricultural evolution could take its natural
course, and the most economical method of production, i.e. large farms or large coöperative
associations, would gradually come to predominate. But the capitalist collectivists who now
control or will soon control governments, far from feeling any anxiety about the persistence
of small-scale farming, believe that the small farmers can be made into the most reliable props
of capitalism. Accordingly collectivist reformers either promote schemes of division of large
estates and favor the creation of large masses of small owners by this and every other available
means, such as irrigation or reclamation projects, or if they indorse nationalization of the
land in order to get the unearned increment for their governments, they still make the leases
on as small a scale and revaluations at as long intervals as possible, and so do almost as
much artificially to perpetuate the small farm under this system as they could by furthering
private ownership.

Although there is no necessary and immediate conflict of interest between wage earners and
small farmers, it is evident that it is impossible for Socialists to offer the small farmers
as much as the capitalist collectivists do,--for the latter are willing in this instance to
promote, for political purposes, an uneconomic mode of production which is a burden on all society.

Here, however, appears an economic tendency that relieves the situation for the Socialist.
Under private ownership or land nationalization with long leases and small-scale farms, it
is only once in a generation or even less frequently that farms are subdivided. But the amount
of capital and labor that can be profitably applied to a given area of land, the intensity
of farming, increases very rapidly. The former self-employing farmer, everywhere encouraged
by governments, soon comes to employ steadily one or more laborers. And it is notable that
in every country of the world these middle-sized or moderate-sized farms are growing more rapidly
than either the large-scale or the one-family farms. This has an economic and a political explanation.
Though large farms have more economic advantages than small, the latter have nothing to expend
for superintendence and get much more work from each person occupied. The middle-sized farms
preserve these advantages and gradually come also to employ much of the most profitable machinery,
that is out of reach of the small farmer. Politically their position is still stronger. They
are neither rich nor few like the large landholders. Their employees are one, two, or three
on each farm, and isolated.

Here, then, is the outcome of the agricultural situation that chiefly concerns the Socialist.
The middle-sized farmer is a small capitalist and employer who, like the rest of his kind,
will in every profound labor crisis be found with the large capitalist. His employees will
outnumber him as voters and will have little hope that the government will intervene some day
to make them either proprietors or possessors of long-term leases. The capital, moreover, to
run this kind of farm or to compete with it, will be greater and greater and more and more
out of their agricultural laborer's reach. These employees will be Socialists.

We are now in a position to understand the divisions among the Socialists on the agricultural
question. The Socialist policy as to agriculture may be divided into three periods. During
the ascendency of capitalistic collectivism it will be powerless to do more than to support
the collectivist reforms, including partial nationalization of the land, partial appropriation
of unearned increment by national or local governments, municipal and coöperative production,
and the numerous reforms already mentioned. In the second period, the approach of Socialism
will hasten all these changes automatically through the rapid rise in wages, and in the third
period, when the Socialists are in power, special measures will be taken still further to hasten
the process until all land is gradually nationalized and all agricultural production carried
on by governmental bodies or coöperative societies of actual workers.

If the Socialists gain control of any government, or if they come near enough to doing this
to be able to force concessions at the cost of capital, a double effect will be produced on
agriculture. The general rise in wages will destroy the profits of many farmer employers, and
it will offer to the smallest self-employing farmers the possibility of an income as wage earners
so much larger, and conditions so much better, than anything they can hope for as independent
producers that they will cease to prefer self-employment. The high cost of labor will favor
both large scale production, either capitalistic or coöperative, and national, state, county,
and municipal farms. Without any but an automatic economic pressure, small-scale and middle-scale
farming would tend rapidly to give place to these other higher forms, and these in turn would
tend to become more and more highly organized as other industries have done, until social production
became a possibility. Not only would there be no need of coercive legislative measures, but
the automatic pressure would be, not that of misery or bankruptcy pressing the self-employing
farmer from behind, but of a larger income and better conditions drawing the majority forward
to more developed and social forms of production.

In France a considerable and increasing number of the Socialist members of Parliament are elected
by the peasantry, and the same is true of Italy. In Hervé the French have developed a world-famed
ultra-revolutionary who always makes his appeal to peasants as well as workers, and in Compère-Morel,
one of the most able of those economists and organizers of the international movement who give
the agriculturists their chief attention. The latter has recently summed up the position of
the French Party in a few incisive paragraphs--which show its similarity to that of the Americans.
His main idea is to let economic evolution take its course, which, in proportion as labor is
effectively organized, will inevitably lead towards collective ownership and operation and
so pave the way for Socialism:--

     "As to small property, it is not our mission either to hasten or to
     precipitate its disappearance. A product of labor, quite often
     being merely a tool of the one who is detaining it, not only do we
     respect it, we do something more yet, we relieve it from taxes,
     usury, scandalous charges on the part of the middlemen, whose
     victim it is. And this will be done in order to make possible its
     free evolution towards superior forms of exploitation and
     ownership, which become more and more inevitable.

     "This means that there is no necessity at all to appeal to
     violence, to use constraint and power in order to inaugurate in the
     domain of rural production, the only mode of ownership fit to
     utilize the new technical agricultural tools: collective ownership.

     "On the other hand, a new form of ownership cannot be imposed; it
     is the new form of ownership which is imposing itself.

     "It is in vain that they use the most powerful, the most
     artificial, means to develop, to multiply, and animate the private
     ownership of the land; the social ownership of the land will impose
     itself, through the force of events, on the most stubborn, on the
     most obstinate, of the partisans of individual ownership of the
     rural domain."

The French Socialists do not propose to interfere with titles of any but very large properties,
or even with inheritance. Whether they have to meet government ownership and 33-year leases
now being tried on a small scale in New Zealand, or whether a capitalist collectivist government
allows agricultural evolution and land titles to take their natural course, they expect to
corner the labor supply, and in this way ultimately to urge agriculture along in the Socialist
direction. From the moment they have done this, they expect a steady tendency on the part of
agriculturists to look forward, as the workingmen have done, to the Socialist State:--

     "The question arises, under a Socialist régime, will small
     property, the property cultivated by the owner and his family, be
     transmissible, allowed to be sold, or left as inheritance to the
     children, to the nephews, and even to very remote cousins? From the
     moment this property is not used as an instrument of
     exploitation--and in a Socialist society, labor not being sold,
     it could never become one--what do we care whether it changes hands
     every morning, whether it travels around through a whole family or
     country?"

For, since the Socialist State will furnish work for all that apply, at the best remuneration,
and under the best conditions, especially as it will do this in its own agricultural enterprises,
relatively few farmers will be able to pay enough to secure other workers than those of their
own families.

In the United States the Party has definitely decided by a large majority, in a referendum
vote, that it does not intend to try to disturb the self-employing farmer in any way in his
occupation and use of the land. In a declaration adopted in 1909, when, by a referendum vote
of nearly two to one, the demand for the immediate collective ownership of the land was dropped
from the platform, the following paragraph was inserted:--

"There can be no absolute private title to land. All private titles, whether called fee simple
or otherwise, are and must be subordinate to the public title. The Socialist Party strives
to prevent land from being used for the purpose of exploitation and speculation. It demands
the collective possession, control, or management of land to whatever extent may be necessary
to attain that end. It is not opposed to the occupation and possession of land by those using
it in a useful bona fide manner without exploitation." (My italics.)

Those American Socialists who have given most attention to the subject, like Mr. Simons, have
long since made up their minds that there is no hope whatever either for the victory or even
for the rapid development of Socialism in this country unless it takes some root among the
agriculturists. Mr. Simons insists that the Socialists should array against the forces of conservatism,
privilege, and exploitation, "all those whose labor assists in the production of wealth, for
all these make up the army of exploited, and all are interested in the abolition of exploitation."

"In this struggle," he continues, "farmers and factory wage workers must make common cause.
Any smaller combination, any division in the ranks of the workers, must render success impossible.
In a country where fundamental changes of policy are secured at the ballot box, nothing can
be accomplished without united action by all classes of workers.... The better organization
of the factory workers of the cities, due to their position in the midst of a higher developed
capitalism and more concentrated industry, makes them in no way independent of their rural
brothers. So long as they are not numerous enough to win, they are helpless. 'A miss is as
good as a mile,' and coming close to a majority avails almost nothing."[230]

Looking at the question after this from the farmers' standpoint, Mr. Simons argues that many
of the latter are well aware that the ownership of a farm is nothing more than the ownership
of a job, and that the capitalists who own the mortgages, railroads, elevators, meat-packing
establishments, and factories which produce agricultural machinery and other needed supplies,
control the lives and income of the agriculturists almost as rigidly as they do those of their
own employees. Mr. Simons's views on this point also are probably those of a majority of the party.

Mr. Victor Berger does not consider that farmers belong to that class by whom and for whom
Socialism has come into being. "The average farmer is not a proletarian," he says, "yet he
is a producer."[231] This would seem to imply that the farmer should have Socialist consideration,
though perhaps not equal consideration with the workingman. Mr. Berger's main argument apparently
was that the farmers must be included in the movement, not because this is demanded by principle
but because "you will never get control of the United States unless you have the farming class
with you," as he said at a Socialist convention.

Thus there are three possible attitudes of Socialists towards the self-employing farmer, and
all three are represented in the movement. Kautsky, Vandervelde, and many others believe that
after all he is not a proletarian, and therefore should not or cannot be included in the movement.
The French Socialists and many Americans believe that he is practically a proletarian and should
and can be included. The "reformists" in countries where he is very numerous believe he should
be included, even when (Berger) they do not consider him as a proletarian. The Socialist movement,
on the whole, now stands with Kautsky and Vandervelde, and this is undoubtedly the correct
position until the Socialists are near to political supremacy. The French and American view,
that the self-employing farmer is practically a wage earner, is spreading, and though this
view is false and dangerous if prematurely applied (i.e. to-day) it will become correct in
the future when collectivist capitalism has exhausted its reforms and the small farmer is becoming
an employee of the highly productive government farms or a profit-sharer in coöperative associations.

At the last American Socialist Convention (1910) Mr. Simons's resolution carefully avoided
the "reformist" position of trying to prop up either private property or small-scale production,
by the statement that, while "no Socialist Party proposes the immediate expropriation of the
farm owner who is cultivating his own farm," that, on the other hand, "it is not for the Socialist
Party to guarantee the private ownership of any productive property." He remarked in the Convention
that the most prominent French Marxists, Guesde and Lafargue, had approved the action of the
recent French Socialist Congress, which had "guaranteed the peasant ownership of his farm,"
but he would not accept this action as good Socialism. Mr. Berger offered the same criticism
of the French Socialists, and added that the guarantee would not be worth anything in any case,
because our grandchildren would not be ruled by it.

     However, there is a minority ready to compromise everything in this
     question. Of all American States, Oklahoma has been the one where
     Socialists have given the closest attention to agricultural
     problems. The Socialists have obtained a considerable vote in every
     county of this agricultural State, and with 20,000 to 25,000 votes
     they include a considerable proportion of the electorate. It is
     true that their platform, though presented at the last national
     convention, has not been passed upon, and may later be disapproved
     in several important clauses, but it is important as showing the
     farthest point the American movement has gone in this direction.
     Its most important points are:--

     The retention and constant enlargement of the public domain.

     By retaining school and other public lands.

     By purchasing of arid and overflow lands and the State reclamation
     of all such lands now held by the State or that may be acquired by
     the State.

     By the purchase of all lands sold for the non-payment of taxes.

     Separation of the department of agriculture from the political
     government.

     Election of all members and officers of the Board of Agriculture by
     the direct vote of the actual farmers.

     Erection by the State of grain elevators and warehouses for the
     storage of farm products; these elevators and warehouses to be
     managed by the Board of Agriculture.

     Organization by the Board of Agriculture of free agricultural
     education and the establishment of model farms.

     Encouragement by the Board of Agriculture of coöperative societies
     of farmers--

     For the buying of seed and fertilizers.

     For the purchase and common use of implements and machinery.

     For the preparing and sale of produce.

     Organization by the State of loans on mortgages and warehouse
     certificates, the interests charges to cover cost only.

     State insurance against disease of animals, diseases of plants,
     insect pests, hail, flood, storm, and fire.

     Exemption from taxation and execution of dwellings, tools, farm
     animals, implements, and improvements to the amount of one thousand
     dollars.

     A graduated tax on the value of rented land and land held for
     speculation.

     Absentee landlords to assess their own lands, the State reserving
     the right to purchase such lands at their assessed value plus 10
     per cent.

     Land now in the possession of the State or hereafter acquired
     through purchase, reclamation, or tax sales to be rented to
     landless farmers under the supervision of the Board of
     Agriculture at the prevailing rate of share rent or its equivalent.
     The payment of such rent to cease as soon as the total amount of
     rent paid is equal to the value of the land, and the tenant thereby
     acquires for himself and his children the right of occupancy. The
     title to all such lands remaining with the commonwealth.[232]

     I have italicized the most significant items. The preference given
     to landless farmers in the last paragraph shows that the party in
     Oklahoma does not propose to distribute its greatest favors to
     those who are now in possession of even the smallest amount of
     land. On the other hand, once the land is governmentally "owned"
     and speculation and landlordism (or renting) are provided against,
     the farmer passes "the right of occupancy" of this land on to his
     children. European Socialist parties, with one exception, have not
     gone so far as this, and it is doubtful if the American Party will
     sustain such a long step towards permanent private property. It may
     well be doubted whether the Socialist movement will favor giving to
     children the identical privileges their parents had, simply because
     they are the children of these parents, especially if these
     privileges had been materially increased in value during the
     parents' lifetime by community effort, i.e. if there has been
     any large "unearned increment." Nor will they grant any additional
     right after forty years of payments or any other term, but, on the
     contrary, as the land rises, through the community's efforts they
     would undoubtedly see to it that rent was correspondingly
     increased. Socialists demand, not penalties against landlordism,
     but the community appropriation of rent--whether it is in the hands
     of the actual farmer or landlord. Why, moreover, seek to
     discriminate against those who are in possession now, and then
     favor those who will be in possession after the new dispensation,
     by giving the latter an almost permanent title? May there not be as
     many landless agricultural workers forty years hence as there are
     now? Why should those who happen to be landless in one generation
     instead of the next receive superior rights?

     Not only Henry George, but Herbert Spencer and the present
     governments of Great Britain (for all but agricultural land) and
     Germany (in the case of cities), recognize that the element of land
     values due to the community effort should go to the community. The
     political principle that gives the community no permanent claim to
     ground rent and is ready to give a "right of occupancy" for two or
     more lifetimes (for nothing is said in the Oklahoma program about
     the land returning to the government) without any provisions for
     increased rentals and with no rents at all after forty years, is
     reactionary as compared with recent land reform programs
     elsewhere (as that of New Zealand).

     Even Mr. Roosevelt's Commission on Country Life goes nearly as far
     as the Oklahoma Socialists when it condemns speculation in farm
     lands and tenancy; while Mr. Roosevelt himself has suggested as a
     remedy in certain instances the leasing of parts of the national
     domain. Indeed, the "progressive" capitalists everywhere favor
     either small self-employing farmers or national ownership and
     leases for long terms and in small allotments, and as "State
     Socialism" advances it will unquestionably lean towards the latter
     system. There is nothing Socialistic either in government
     encouragement either of one-family farms or in a national leasing
     system with long-term leases as long as the new revenue received
     goes for the usual "State Socialistic" purposes.

The American Party, moreover, has failed so far to come out definitely in favor of the capitalist-collectivist
principle of the State appropriation of ground rent, already indorsed by Marx in 1847 and again
in 1883 (see his letter about Henry George, Part I, Chapter VIII). In preparing model constitutions
for New Mexico and Arizona (August, 1910), the National Executive Committee took up the question
of taxation and recommended graduated income and inheritance taxes, but nothing was said about
the State taking the future rise in rents. This is not a reaction when compared to the present
world status of non-Socialist land reform, for the taxation of unearned increment has not yet
been extended to agricultural land in use, but it is decidedly a reaction when compared with
the Socialists' own position in the past.

In a semiagricultural country like the United States it is natural that "State Socialism" should
influence the Socialist Party in its treatment of the land question more than in any other
direction, and this influence is, perhaps, the gravest danger that threatens the party at the
present writing.

     By far the most important popular organ of Socialism in this
     country is the Appeal to Reason of Girard, Kansas, which now
     circulates nearly half a million copies weekly--a large part of
     which go into rural communities. The Appeal endeavors, with some
     success, to reflect the views of the average party member, without
     supporting any faction. As Mr. Debs is one of its editors, it may
     be understood that it stands fundamentally against the compromise
     of any essential Socialist principle. And yet the exigencies of a
     successful propaganda among small landowners or tenants who either
     want to become landowners or to secure a lease that would amount to
     almost the same thing, is such as to drive the Appeal into a
     position, not only as to the land question, but also to other
     questions, that has in it many elements of "State Socialism."

     A special propaganda edition (January 27, 1902) is typical. Along
     with many revolutionary declarations, such as that Socialism aims
     not only at the socialization of the means of production, but also
     at the socialization of power, we find others that would be
     accepted by any capitalist "State Socialist." Government activities
     as to schools and roads are mentioned as examples of socialization,
     while that part of the land still in the hands of our present
     capitalist government is referred to as being socialized. The use
     of vacant and unused lands (with "a fair return" for this use) by
     city, township, and county officials in order to raise and sell
     products and furnish employment, as was done by the late Mayor
     Pingree in Detroit, and even the public ownership of freight and
     passenger automobiles, are spoken of as "purely Socialist
     propositions." And, finally, the laws of Oklahoma are said to
     permit socialization without a national victory of the Socialists,
     though they provide merely that a municipality may engage in any
     legitimate business enterprise, and could easily be circumscribed
     by state constitutional provisions or by federal courts if real
     Socialists were about to gain control of municipalities and State
     legislature. For such Socialists would not be satisfied merely to
     demand the abolition of private landlordism and unemployment as the
     Appeal does in this instance, since both of these "institutions"
     are already marked for destruction by "State capitalism," but would
     plan public employment at wages so high as to make private
     employment unprofitable and all but impossible, so high that the
     self-employing farmer even would more and more frequently prefer to
     quit his farm and go to work on a municipal, State, or county farm.

The probable future course of the Party, however, is foreshadowed by the suggestions made by
Mr. Simons in the report referred to, which, though not yet voted upon, seemed to meet general
approval:--

"With the writers of the Communist Manifesto we agree in the principle of the 'application
of all rents of land to public purposes.' To this end we advocate the taxing of all lands to
their full rental value, the income therefrom to be applied to the establishment of industrial
plants for the preparing of agricultural products for final consumption, such as packing houses,
canneries, cotton gins, grain elevators, storage and market facilities."[233]

There is no doubt that Mr. Simons here indorses the most promising line of agrarian reform
under capitalism. But there is no reason why capitalist collectivism may not take up this policy
when it reaches a somewhat more advanced stage. The tremendous benefits the cities will secure
by the gradual appropriation of the unearned increment will almost inevitably suggest it to
the country also. This will immensely hasten the development of agriculture and the numerical
increase of an agricultural working class. What is even more important is that it will teach
the agricultural laborers that far more is to be gained by the political overthrow of the small
capitalist employing farmers and by claiming a larger share of the benefit of these public
funds than by attempting the more and more difficult task of saving up the sum needed for acquiring
a small farm or leasing one for a long term from the government.

The governmental appropriation of agricultural rent and its productive expenditure on agriculture
will in all probability be carried out, even if not prematurely promised at the present time,
by collectivist capitalism. Moreover, while this great reform will strengthen Socialism as
indicated, it will strengthen capitalism still more, especially in the earlier stages of the
change. Socialists recognize, with Henry George, that ground rent may be nationalized and "tyranny
and spoliation be continued." For if the present capitalistic state gradually became the general
landlord, either through the extension of the national domain or through land taxation, greater
resources would be put into the hands of existing class governments than by any other means.
If, for example, the Socialists opposed the government bank in Germany they might dread even
more the present government becoming the universal landlord, though it would be useless to
try to prevent it.

It is clear that such a reform is no more a step in Socialism or in the direction of Socialism
than the rest of the capitalist collectivist program. But it is a step in the development of
capitalism and will ultimately bring society to a point where the Socialists, if they have
in the meanwhile prepared themselves, may be able to gain the supreme power over government
and industry.

Socialists do not feel that the agricultural problem will be solved at all for a large part
of the agriculturists (the laborers) nor in the most satisfactory manner for the majority (self-employing
farmers) until the whole problem of capitalism is solved. The agricultural laborers they claim
as their own to-day; the conditions I have reviewed lead them to hope also for a slow but steady
progress among the smaller farmers.

FOOTNOTES:

[223] Karl Kautsky, "Parlamentarismus und Demokratie," edition of 1911, p. 127.

[224] Karl Kautsky, "Parlamentarismus und Demokratie," edition of 1911, pp. 126-128.

[225] Quotations from Kautsky following in this chapter are taken chiefly from his "Agrarfrage."

[226] Émile Vandervelde, "Le Socialisme Agraire."

[227] Die Neue Zeit, June 16, 1911.

[228] Proceedings of 1910 Convention of the Socialist Party of the United States.

[229] Die Neue Zeit, June 16 and 30, 1911.

[230] A. M. Simons, "The American Farmer," pp. 160-162.

[231] The 1908 Convention of the Socialist Party of the United States.

[232] Reprinted at frequent intervals by the Industrial Democrat, Oklahoma City.

[233] Mr. Simons's resolution also contains another proposition, seemingly at variance with
this, which would postpone Socialist action indefinitely:--

"In the field of industry what the Socialist movement demands is the social ownership and control
of the socially operated means of production, not of all means of production. Only to a very
small extent is it [the land] likely to be, for many years to come, a socially operated means
of production."

On the contrary, it would seem that "State Socialism," the basis on which Socialists must build,
to say nothing of Socialism, will bring about a large measure of government ownership of land
in the interest of the farmer of the individually operated farm. Socialism, it is true, requires
besides government ownership, governmental operation, and recognizes that this is practicable
only as fast as agriculture becomes organized like other industries. In the meanwhile it recognizes
either in gradual government ownership or in the taxation of the unearned increment, the most
progressive steps that can be undertaken by a capitalist government and supports them even
where there is no large-scale production or social operation. For "wherever individual ownership
is an agency of exploitation," to quote Mr. Simons's own resolution, "then such ownership is
opposed by Socialism," i.e. wherever labor is employed.

The Socialist solution, it is true, can only come with "social operation," but that does not
mean that Socialism has nothing to say to-day. It still favors the reforms of collectivist
capitalism. Where extended national ownership of the land is impracticable there remains the
taxation of the future unearned increment. To drop this "demand" also is to subordinate Socialism
completely to small-scale capitalism.

CHAPTER III

SOCIALISM AND THE "WORKING CLASS"

If the majority of Socialists are liberal in their conception of what constitutes the "working
class," they are equally broad in their view as to what classes must be reckoned among its
opponents. They are aware that on the other side in this struggle will be found all those classes
that are willing to serve capitalism or hope to rise into its ranks.

In its narrow sense the term "capitalist class" may be restricted to mean mere idlers and parasites,
but this is not the sense in which Socialists usually employ it. Mere idlers play an infinitely
less important part in the capitalist world than active exploiters. It is even probable that
in the course of a strenuous struggle the capitalists themselves may gradually tax wholly idle
classes out of existence and so actually strengthen the more active capitalists by ridding
them of this burden. Active exploiters may pass some of their time in idleness and frivolous
consumption, without actual degeneration, without becoming mere parasites. All exploitation
is parasitism, but it does not follow that every exploiter is nothing more than a parasite.
He may work feverishly at the game of exploitation and, as is very common with capitalists,
may be devoted to it for its own sake and for the power it brings rather than for the opportunity
to consume in luxury or idleness. If pure parasitism were the object of attack, as certain
Socialists suppose it to be, all but an infinitesimal minority of mankind would already be
Socialists.

Nor do Socialists imagine that the capitalist ranks will ever be restricted to the actual capitalists,
those whose income is derived chiefly from their possessions. Take, for example, the class
of the least skilled and poorest-paid laborers such as the so-called "casual laborers," the
"submerged tenth"--those who, though for the most part not paupers, are in extreme poverty
and probably are unable to maintain themselves in a state of industrial efficiency even for
that low-paid and unskilled labor to which they are accustomed. Mr. H. G. Wells and other observers
feel that this class is likely to put even more obstacles in the path of Socialism than the
rich: "Much more likely to obstruct the way to Socialism," says Mr. Wells, "is the ignorance,
the want of courage, the stupid want of imagination in the very poor, too shy and timid and
clumsy to face any change they can evade! But even with them popular education is doing its
work; and I do not fear but that in the next generation we will find Socialists even in the
slums."[234]

"Misery and poverty are so absolutely degrading, and exercise such a paralyzing effect over
the nature of men, that no class is ever really conscious of its own suffering," says Oscar
Wilde. "They have to be told of it by other people, and they often entirely disbelieve them.
What is said by great employers of labor against agitators is unquestionably true. Agitators
are a set of interfering, meddling people, who come down to some perfectly contented class
of the community and sow the seeds of discontent amongst them."[235] It is the "very poor"
who disbelieve the agitators. They must be embraced in every plan of social reconstruction,
but they cannot be of much aid. The least skilled must rather be helped and those who can and
do help them best are not any of their "superiors," but their blood brothers and sisters of
the economic class just above them--the great mass of the unskilled workers.

The class of casual workers and the able-bodied but chronically under-employed play a very
serious rôle in Socialist politics. It is the class from which, as Socialists point out, professional
soldiers, professional strike breakers, and, to some extent, the police are drawn. Among German
Socialists it is called the "lumpen proletariat," and both for the present and future is looked
at with the greatest anxiety. It is not thought possible that any considerable portion of it
will be brought into the Socialist camp in the near future, though some progress has been made,
as with every other element of the working class. It is acknowledged that it tends to become
more numerous, constantly recruited as it is from the increasing class of servants and other
dependents of the rich and well-to-do.

But Socialists understand that the mercenary hirelings drawn from this class, and directly
employed to keep them "in order," are less dangerous than the capitalists' camp followers.
Bernard Shaw calls this second army of dependents "the parasitic proletariat." But he explains
that he means not that they do not earn their living, but that their labor is unproductive.
They are parasitic only in the sense that their work is done either for parasites or for the
parasitical consumption of active capitalists. Nor is there any sharp line between proletarian
and middle class in this element, since parts of both classes are equally conscious of their
dependence. Shaw makes these points clear. His only error is to suppose that Socialists and
believers in the class war theory, have failed to recognize them.

     "Thus we find," says Shaw, "that what the idle man of property does
     is to plunge into mortal sin against society. He not only withdraws
     himself from the productive forces of the nation and quarters
     himself on them as a parasite: he withdraws also a body of
     propertyless men and places them in the same position except that
     they have to earn this anti social privilege by ministering to his
     wants and whims. He thus creates and corrupts a class of
     workers--many of them very highly trained and skilled, and
     correspondingly paid--whose subsistence is bound up with his
     income. They are parasites on a parasite; and they defend the
     institution of private property with a ferocity which startles
     their principal, who is often in a speculative way quite
     revolutionary in his views. They knock the class war theory into a
     cocked hat [I shall show below that class war Socialists, on the
     contrary, have always recognized, the existence of these facts,
     "whilst the present system lasts."--W. E. W.] by forming a powerful
     conservative proletariat whose one economic interest is that the
     rich should have as much money as possible; and it is they who
     encourage and often compel the property owners to defend themselves
     against an onward march of Socialism. Thus we have the phenomenon
     that seems at first sight so amazing in London: namely, that in the
     constituencies where the shopkeepers pay the most monstrous rents,
     and the extravagance and insolence of the idle rich are in fullest
     view, no Socialist--nay, no Progressive--has a chance of being
     elected to the municipality or to Parliament. The reason is that
     these shopkeepers live by fleecing the rich as the rich live by
     fleecing the poor. The millionaire who has preyed upon Bury and
     Bottle until no workman there has more than his week's sustenance
     in hand, and many of them have not even that, is himself preyed
     upon in Bond Street, Pall Mall, and Longacre.

     "But the parasites, the West End tradesman, the West End
     professional man, the schoolmaster, the Ritz hotel keeper, the
     horse dealer and trainer, the impresario and his guinea stalls, and
     the ordinary theatrical manager with his half-guinea ones, the
     huntsman, the jockey, the gamekeeper, the gardener, the coachman,
     the huge mass of minor shopkeepers and employees who depend on
     these or who, as their children, have been brought up with a
     little crust of conservative prejudices which they call their
     politics and morals and religion: all these give to Parliamentary
     and social conservatism its real fighting force; and the more
     'class conscious' we make them, the more they will understand that
     their incomes, whilst the present system lasts, are bound up with
     those of the proprietors whom Socialism would expropriate. And as
     many of them are better fed, better mannered, better educated, more
     confident and successful than the productive proletariat, the class
     war is not going to be a walkover for the Socialists."[236]

If we take into account both this "parasitic proletariat" and the "lumpen proletariat" previously
referred to, it is clear that when the Socialists speak of a class struggle against the capitalists,
they do not expect to be able to include in their ranks all "the people" nor even all the wage
earners. This is precisely one of the things that distinguishes them most sharply from a merely
populistic movement. Populist parties expect to include all classes of the "common people,"
and every numerically important class of capitalists. Socialists understand that they can never
rely on the small capitalist except when he has given up all hope of maintaining himself as
such, and that they are facing not only the whole capitalist class, but also their hirelings
and dependents.

Socialists as a whole have never tended either to a narrowly exclusive nor to a vaguely inclusive
policy. Nor have their most influential writers, like Marx and Liebknecht, given the wage earners
a privileged position in the movement. I have quoted from Liebknecht. "Just as the democrats
make a sort of a fetish of the words 'the people,'" wrote Marx to the Communists on resigning
from the organization in 1851, "so you may make one of the word 'proletariat.'"

But it cannot be denied that many of Marx's followers have ignored this warning, and the worship
of the words "proletariat" or "working class" is still common in some Socialist quarters. Recently
Kautsky wrote that the Socialist Party, besides occupying itself with the interests of the
manual laborers, "must also concern itself with all social questions, but that its attitude
on these questions is determined by the interests of the manual laborers."

"The Socialist Party," he continued, "is forced by its class position to expand its struggle
against its own exploitation and oppression into a struggle against all forms of exploitation
and oppression, to broaden its struggle for class interests into a struggle for liberty and
justice for all members of the community." According to this interpretation, the Socialist
Party, starting out from the standpoint of the economic interests of the "manual laborers,"
comes to represent the interests of all classes, except the capitalists. We may doubt as to
whether the other non-capitalist classes will take kindly to this subordination or "benevolent
assimilation" by the manual workers. Kautsky seems to have no question on this matter, however;
for he considers that the abolition of the oppression and exploitation of the wage earners,
the class at the bottom, can only be effected by the abolition of all exploitation and oppression,
and that therefore "all friends of universal liberty and justice, whatever class they may spring
from, are compelled to join the proletariat and to fight its class struggles."[237] Even if
this is true, these other classes will demand that they should have an equal voice in carrying
on this struggle in proportion to their numbers, and Socialist parties have usually (though
not always) given them that equal voice.

The kernel of the working class, "the layers of the industrial proletariat which have reached
political self-consciousness," provides the chief supporters of the Socialist movement, according
to Kautsky, although the latter is the representative "not alone of the industrial wage workers,
but of all the working and exploited layers of the community, that is, the great majority of
the total population, what one ordinarily calls 'the people.'" While Socialism is to represent
all the producing and exploited classes, the industrial proletariat is thus considered as the
model to which the others must be shaped and as by some special right or virtue it is on all
occasions to take the forefront in the movement. This position leads inevitably to a considerably
qualified form of democracy.

     "The backbone of the party will always be the fighting proletariat,
     whose qualities will determine its character, whose strength will
     determine its power," says Kautsky. "Bourgeois and peasants are
     highly welcome if they will attach themselves to us and march with
     us, but the proletariat will always show the way.

     "But if not only wage earners but also small peasants and small
     capitalists, artisans, middle-men of all kinds, small officials,
     and so forth--in short, the whole so-called 'common people'--formed
     the masses out of which Social Democracy recruits its adherents, we
     must not forget that these classes, with the exception of the
     class-conscious wage-earners, are also a recruiting ground for our
     opponents; their influence on these classes has been and still is
     to-day the chief ground of their political power.

     "To grant political rights to the people, therefore, by no means
     necessarily implies the protection of the interests of the
     proletariat or those of social evolution. Universal suffrage, as it
     is known, has nowhere brought about a Social Democratic majority,
     while it may give more reactionary majorities than a qualified
     suffrage under the same circumstances. It may put aside a liberal
     government only to put in its place a conservative or catholic
     one....

     "Nevertheless the proletariat must demand democratic institutions
     under all circumstances, for the same reasons that, once it has
     obtained political power, it can only use its own class rule for
     the purpose of putting an end to all class rule. It is the
     bottommost of the social classes. It cannot gain political rights,
     at least not in its entirety, except if everybody gets them. Each
     of the other classes may become privileged under certain
     circumstances, but not the proletariat. The Social Democracy, the
     party of the class-conscious proletariat, is therefore the surest
     support of democratic efforts, much surer than the bourgeois
     democracy.

     "But if the Social Democracy is also the most strenuous fighter for
     democracy, it cannot share the latter's illusions. It must always
     be conscious of the fact that every popular right which it wins is
     a weapon not only for itself, but also for its opponents; it must
     therefore under certain circumstances understand that democratic
     achievements are more useful at first to the enemy than to itself;
     but only at first. For in the long run the introduction of
     democratic institutions in the State can only turn out to the
     profit of Social Democracy. They necessarily make its struggle
     easier, and lead it to victory. The militant proletariat has so
     much confidence in social evolution, so much confidence in itself,
     that it fears no struggle, not even with a superior power; it only
     wants a field of battle on which it can move freely. The democratic
     State offers such a field of battle; there the final decisive
     struggle between bourgeoisie and proletariat can best be fought
     out."

The reader might understand this somewhat vacillating position on the whole to favor democracy,
but only a few pages further on Kautsky explains his reasons for opposing the initiative and
referendum, and we see that when the point of action arrives, his democratic idealism is abandoned:--

     "In our opinion it follows from the preceding that the initiative
     and referendum do not belong to those democratic institutions
     which must be furthered by the proletariat in the interest of its
     own struggle for emancipation everywhere and under all
     circumstances. The referendum and initiative are institutions which
     may be very useful under certain circumstances if one does not
     overvalue these uses, but under other circumstances may cause
     great harm. The introduction of the initiative and referendum is,
     therefore, not to be striven for everywhere and under all
     circumstances, but only in those places where certain conditions
     are fulfilled.

     "Among these conditions precedent we reckon, above all, the
     preponderance of the city population over that of the country--a
     condition which at the present moment has only been reached in
     England. A further condition precedent is a highly developed
     political party life which has taken hold of the great masses of
     the population, so that the tendency of direct legislation to break
     up parties and to bridge over party opposition are no more to be
     feared.

     "But the weightiest condition precedent is the lack of an
     overwhelmingly centralized governmental power, standing
     independently against the people's representatives."[238] (My
     italics.)

The first condition mentioned I have discussed in the previous chapter; the second indicates
that Kautsky, speaking for many German Socialists, for the present at least, puts party above
democracy.

The industrial proletariat is supposed to have the mission of saving society. Even when it
is not politically "self-conscious," or educated to see the great rôle it must play in the
present and future transformation of society, it is supposed that it is compelled ultimately
"by the logic of events" to fill this rôle and attempt the destruction of capitalism and the
socialization of capital. This prediction may ultimately prove true, but time is the most vital
element in any calculation, and Kautsky himself acknowledges that the industrial proletariat
"had existed a long time before giving any indication of its independence," and that during
all this long period "no militant proletariat was in existence."

The chief practical reason for relying so strongly on the industrial wage earners as stated
by Bebel and other Socialists is undoubtedly that "the proletariat increases more and more
until it forms the overwhelming majority of the nation." No doubt, in proportion as this tendency
exists, the importance of gathering certain parts of the middle class into the movement becomes
less and less, and the statement quoted, if strongly insisted upon, even suggests a readiness
to attempt to get along entirely without these elements. The figures of the Census indicate
that in this country, at least, we are some time from the point when the proletariat will constitute
even a bare majority, and that it is not likely to form an overwhelming majority for decades
to come. But the European view is common here also.

The moderate Vandervelde also says that the Socialist program has been "formulated by or for
the workingmen of large-scale industry."[239] This may be true, but we are not as much interested
to know who formulated the program of the movement as to understand its present aim. Its aim,
it is generally agreed, is to organize into a single movement all anti-capitalistic elements,
all those who want to abolish capitalism, those exploited classes that are not too crushed
to revolt, those whose chief means of support is socially useful labor and not the ownership
of capital or possession of some privileged position or office. In this movement it is generally
conceded by Socialists that the workingmen of industry play the central part. But they are
neither its sole origin nor is their welfare its sole aim.

The best known of the Socialist critics of Marxism, Edward Bernstein, shares with some of Marx's
most loyal disciples in this excessive idealization of the industrial working class. Indeed,
he says, with more truth than he realizes, that in proportion as revolutionary Marxism is relegated
to the background it is necessary to affirm more sharply the class character of the Party.
That is to say, if a Socialist Party abandons the principles of Socialism, then the only way
it can be distinguished from other movements is by the fact that it embraces other elements
of the population, that it is a class movement. But Socialism is something more than this,
it is a class movement of a certain definite character, composed of classes that are naturally
selected and united, owing to certain definite characteristics.

"The social democracy," says Bernstein, "can become the people's party, but only in the sense
that the workingmen form the essential kernel around which are grouped social elements having
identical interests.... Of all the social classes opposed to the capitalist class, the working
class alone represents an invincible factor of social progress," and social democracy "addresses
itself principally to the workers." (My italics.)

Perhaps the most orthodox Socialist organ in America, and the ablest representative in this
country of the international aspects of the movement (the New Yorker Volkszeitung), insists
that "the Socialist movement consists in the fusion of the Socialist doctrine with the labor
movement and in nothing else," and says that students and even doctors have little importance
for the Party. The less orthodox but more revolutionary Western Clarion, the Socialist organ
of British Columbia, where the Socialists form the chief opposition party in the legislature,
asserts boldly, "We have no leaning towards democracy; all we want is a short supply of working-class
autocracy."

Some of the ultra-revolutionists have gone so far in their hostility to all social classes
that do not work with their hands, that they have completed the circle and flown into the arms
of the narrowest and least progressive of trade unionists--the very element against which they
had first reacted. The Western Socialist, Thomas Sladden, throwing into one single group all
the labor organizations from the most revolutionary to the most conservative, such as the railway
brotherhoods, says that all "are in reality part of the great Socialist movement," and claims
that whenever "labor" goes into politics, this also is a step towards Socialism, though Socialist
principles are totally abandoned. Mayor McCarthy of San Francisco, for instance, satisfied
his requirements. "McCarthy declares himself a friend of capital," says Sladden, but, he asks
defiantly, "Does any sane capitalist believe him?" Here we see one of the most revolutionary
agitators becoming more and more "radical" until he has completed the circle and come back,
not only to "labor right or wrong," but even to "labor working in harmony with capital."

"The skilled workingman," he says, "is not a proletarian. He has an interest to conserve, he
has that additional skill for which he receives compensation in addition to his ordinary labor
power."

Mr. Sladden adds that the real proletarian is "uncultured and uncouth in appearance," that
he has "no manners and little education," and that his religion is "the religion of hate."
Of course this is a mere caricature of the attitude of the majority of Socialists.

Some of the partisans of revolutionary unionism in this country are little less extreme. The
late Louis Duchez, for example, reminds us that Marx spoke of the proletariat as "the lowest
stratum of our present society," those "who have nothing to lose but their chains," and that
he said that "along with the constantly diminishing number of the magnates of capital who usurp
and monopolize all the advantages of this process of transformation, grows the mass of misery,
oppression, slavery, degradation, exploitation; but with this, too, grows the revolt of the
working class." It is true that Marx said these things and said them with emphasis. But he
did not wish to make any rigid or dogmatic definition of "the proletariat" and much that he
has said pointed to an entirely different conception than would be gained from these quotations.

In speaking of "the lowest stratum of society" Marx was thinking, not of a community divided
into numerous strata, but chiefly of three classes, the large capitalists, the workers, and
the middle class. It was the lowest of these three, and not the lowest of their many subdivisions,
that he had in mind. From the first the whole Socialist movement has recognized the almost
complete hopelessness, as an aid to Socialism, of the lowest stratum in the narrow sense, of
what is called the "lumpen proletariat," the bulk of the army of beggars and toughs. Mr. Duchez
undoubtedly would have accepted this point, for he wishes to say that the Socialist movement
must be advanced by the organization of unions not among this class, but among the next lowest,
economically speaking, the great mass of unskilled workers. This argument, also, that the unskilled
have a better strategic position than the skilled on account of their solidarity and unity
is surely a doubtful one. European Socialists, as a rule, have reached the opposite conclusion,
namely, that it is the comparatively skilled workers, like those of the railways, who possess
the only real possibility of leading in a general strike movement (see Chapters V and VI).

FOOTNOTES:

[234] H. G. Wells, "This Misery of Boots," p. 34.

[235] Oscar Wilde, "The Soul of Man under Socialism", (brochure).

[236] Bernard Shaw's series in the New Age (1908).

[237] Karl Kautsky, the New York Call, Nov. 14, 1909.

[238] Karl Kautsky, "Parlamentarismus und Demokratie," pp. 124, 125, 138.

[239] Émile Vandervelde, "Le Socialisme Agraire," p. 236.

CHAPTER IV

SOCIALISM AND THE LABOR UNIONS

One of the grounds on which it is proposed by some Socialists to give manual labor a special
and preferred place in the movement is that it is supposed to be the only numerically important
non-capitalist element that is at all well organized or even organizable. Let us see, then,
to what degree labor is organized and what are the characteristics of this organization.

First, the labor unions represent manual wage earners almost exclusively--not by intention,
but as a matter of fact. They include only an infinitesimal proportion of small employers,
self-employing artisans, or salaried employees.

Second, the unions by no means include all the manual wage earners, and only in a few industries
do they include a majority. Those organized are, as a rule, the more developed and prosperous,
the skilled or comparatively skilled workers.

Third, their method of action is primarily that of the strike and boycott--economic and not
political. They demand certain legislation and in several cases have put political parties
in the field; they exert a political pressure in favor of government employees. But their chief
purpose, even when they do these things, is to develop an organization that can strike and
boycott effectively; and to secure only such political and civil rights as are needed for this
purpose.

The unions are primarily economic, and the Socialist Party is primarily political--both, to
have any national power, must embrace a considerable proportion of the same industrial wage-earning
class. It is evident that conflict between the two organizations is unnecessary and we find,
indeed, that it arises only in exceptional cases. Many Socialists, however, look upon the unions
primarily as an economic means, more or less important, of advancing political Socialism--while
many unionists regard the Socialist parties primarily as political instruments for furthering
the economic action of the unions.

There are several groups of Socialists, on the other hand, who ascribe to the economic action
of the unions a part in attaining Socialism as important or more important than that they ascribe
to the political action of the party. These include, first, all those for whom Socialism is
to be brought about almost exclusively by wage earners, whether by political or by economic
action; second, those who do not believe the capitalists will allow the ballot to be used for
anti-capitalistic purposes; third, those who believe that, in spite of all that capitalists
and capitalistic governments can do, strikes and boycotts cannot be circumvented and in the
end are irresistible.

Other Socialists, agreeing that economic action, and therefore labor unions, both of the existing
kind and of that more revolutionary type now in the process of formation, are indispensable,
still look upon the Socialist Party as the chief instrument of Socialism. As these include
nearly all Party members who are not unionists as well as a considerable part of the unionists,
they are perhaps a majority--internationally.

As the correct relationship between Party and unions, Mr. Debs has indorsed the opinion of
Professor Herron, who, he said, "sees the trend of development and arrives at conclusions that
are sound and commend themselves to the thoughtful consideration of all trade unionists and
Socialists." Professor Herron says that the Socialist is needed to educate the unionists to
see their wider interests:--

     "He is not to do this by seeking to commit trade-union bodies to
     the principles of Socialism. Resolutions or commitments of this
     sort accomplish little good. Nor is he to do it by taking a servile
     attitude towards organized labor nor by meddling with the details
     or the machinery of the trade unions. It is better to leave the
     trade unions to their distinctive work, as the workers' defense
     against the encroachments of capitalism, as the economic
     development of the worker against the economic development of the
     capitalist, giving unqualified support and sympathy to the
     struggles of the organized worker to sustain himself in his
     economic sphere. But let the Socialist also build up the character
     and harmony and strength of the Socialist movement as a political
     force, that it shall command the respect and confidence of the
     worker, irrespective of his trade or his union obligations. It is
     urgent that we so keep in mind the difference between the two
     developments that neither shall cripple the other."[240]

Here is a statement of the relation of the two movements that corresponds closely to the most
mature and widespread Socialist opinion and to the decisions of the International Socialist
Congresses.

This view also meets that of the unions in most countries. The President of the American Federation,
Mr. Gompers, understands this thoroughly and quotes with approval the action taken recently
by the labor unions in Sweden, Hungary, and Italy, which demand the enforcement of this policy
of absolute "neutrality." Formerly the federation of the unions of Sweden, for example, agreed
to use their efforts to have the local unions become a part of the local organization of the
Social Democratic Party. These words providing for this policy were struck out of the constitution
by the Convention of 1909, which at the same time adopted (by a considerable majority) a resolution
that "by this decision it was not intended to break up the unity and solidarity of labor's
forces, for the convention considers the Social Democratic Party as the natural expression
of the political ambitions of the Swedish workers." A similar relation prevails in nearly every
country of the Continent.

The Secretary of the German Federation (who is its highest officer)--a man who is at the same
time an active Socialist,--has defined accurately the relation between the two organizations
in that country. He says that the unions cannot accomplish their purposes without securing
political representation "through a Party that is active in legislative bodies." This is also
the view now of the British unions, which in overwhelming majority support the Labor Party.
And they do this for the same purposes mentioned by Legien: to protect the working people from
excessive exploitation, to enact into law the advantages already won by the unions, and so
to smooth the way for better labor conditions. Similarly, the American Federation of Labor
secures representation on legislative bodies, and hesitates to form a national Labor Party,
not on principle, but only because American conditions do not in most localities promise that
it would be effective.

Mr. Mitchell expresses the position of the American Federation when he says that the "wage
earners should in proportion to their strength secure the nomination and the election of a
number of representatives to the governing bodies of city, State, and nation," but that "a
third Labor Party is not for the present desirable, because it would not obtain a majority
and could not therefore force its will upon the community at large." The European Socialists
would perhaps not understand the political principle of our governmental system, which requires
a plurality in the State or nation in order to obtain immediate results. For in this country
the more important branches of the government are the executive and judges, and these, unlike
the legislatures, cannot as a rule be divided, and therefore give no opportunity for the representation
of minorities, and are necessarily elected by State or national pluralities and usually by
majorities. In the monarchical countries of the Continent either such officials are not elected,
or their powers are circumscribed, and even England lies in this respect halfway between those
countries and the United States. What Mr. Mitchell says is in so far true; it would certainly
require a large number of elections before a party beginning on the basis of a minority of
representatives in Congress or the legislatures could win enough control over the executive
and judges to "force its will upon the community at large." Mr. Mitchell and the other leaders
of the Federation are, it is seen, unwilling to undertake a campaign so long and arduous, and,
since they have no means of attracting the votes of any but wage-earning voters, so doubtful
as to its outcome.

     Mr. Mitchell says that the workingmen in a separate party could not
     even secure a respectable minority of the legislators. The
     numerical strength of the Unions in proportion to the voting
     population is scarcely greater than it was when he wrote (1903),
     and what he said then holds true as ever to-day.

     Mr. Gompers has also stated that labor would not be able to secure
     more than twenty-five or fifty Congressmen by independent political
     action. This is undoubtedly true, and we may take it for granted,
     therefore, that, unless the unions most unexpectedly increase their
     strength, there will be no national or even State-wide Trade Union
     or Labor Party in this country, though the San Francisco example of
     a city Labor party may be repeated now and then, and State
     organizations of the Socialist Party, which enjoy a large measure
     of autonomy, may occasionally, without changing their present
     names, reduce themselves to mere trade-union parties in the narrow
     sense of the term. President Gompers has claimed that 80 per cent
     of the voting members of the American Federation of Labor followed
     his advice in the election of 1908, which was, in nearly every
     case, to vote the Democratic ticket. There were not over 2,000,000
     members of the Federation at this time, and of these (allowing for
     women, minors, and non-voting foreigners) there were not more than
     1,500,000 voters. About 60 per cent of this number have always
     voted Democratic, so that if Mr. Gompers's claim were conceded it
     would mean a change of no more than 300,000 votes. It is true that
     such a number of voters could effect the election or defeat of a
     great many Democrats or Republican Congressmen, but, as Mr. Gompers
     says, it could only elect a score or two of Independents, a number
     which, as the example of Populism has shown, would be impotent
     under our political system. Moreover, as such a Congressional group
     would be situated politically not in the middle, but at one of the
     extremes, it could never hold the balance of power in this or any
     other country until it became a majority.

Mr. Mitchell is careful to qualify his opposition to the third party (or Labor Party) idea.
He writes: "I wish it to be understood that this refers only to the immediate policy of the
unions. One cannot see what the future of the dominant parties in the United States will be,
and should it come to pass that the two great American political parties oppose labor legislation,
as they now favor it, it would be the imperative duty of unionists to form a third party in
order to secure some measure of reform."[241] Certainly both parties are becoming more and
more willing to grant "some measure" of labor reform, so that Mr. Mitchell is unlikely to change
his present position.

Whether the unions form a separate party or not, is to them a matter not of principle, but
of ways and means, of time and place. Where they are very weak politically they seek only to
have their representatives in other parties; where they are stronger they may form a party
of their own to coöperate with the other parties and secure a share in government; where they
are strongest they will seek to gain control over a party that plays for higher stakes, brings
to the unions the support of other elements, and remains in opposition until it can secure
undivided control over government, e.g. the Socialist Party. Whether the unions operate through
all parties or a Labor Party or a Socialist Party, is of secondary importance also to Socialists;
what is of consequence is the character of the unions, and the effect of their political policy
on the unions themselves. In all three cases the principles of the unions may be at bottom
the same, and in any of the three cases they may be ready to use the Socialist Party for the
sole purpose of securing a modest improvement of their wages--even obstructing other Party
activities--as some of the German union leaders have done. They may also use a Labor Party
for the same purpose--as in Great Britain. Or they may develop a political program without
really favoring any political party or having any distinctive political aim--as in the United
States.

The labor unions, even the most conservative, have always and everywhere had some kind of a
political program. They have naturally favored the right to organize, to strike and boycott,
free speech and a free press. They have demanded universal suffrage, democratic constitutions,
and other measures to increase the political power of their members. They have favored all
economic reform policies of which working people got a share, even if a disproportionately
small one, and all forms of taxation that lightened their burdens.[242] And, finally, they
have usually centered their attacks on the most powerful of their enemies, whether Emperor,
Church, army, landlords, or large capitalists.

In economic and political reform, the American unions, like those of other countries, support
all progressive measures, including the whole "State Socialist" program. As to political machinery,
they favor, of course, every proposal that can remove constitutional checks and give the majority
control over the government, such as the easy amendment of constitutions and the right to recall
judges and all other officials by majority vote. Like the Socialists, they welcome the "State
Socialist" labor program, government insurance for workingmen against old age, sickness, accidents,
and unemployment, a legal eight-hour day, a legal minimum wage, industrial education, the prohibition
of child labor, etc.

The unions and the parties they use also join in the effort of the small capitalist investors
and borrowers, consumers and producers, to control the large interests--the central feature
of the "State Socialist" policy. But the conservative unions do not stop with such progressive,
if non-Socialist, measures; they take up the cause of the smaller capitalists also as competitors.
The recent attack of the Federation of Labor on the "Steel Trust" is an example. The presidents
of the majority of the more important unions, who signed this document, became the partisans
not only of small capitalists who buy from the trust, sell to it, or invest in its securities,
but also of the unsuccessful competitors that these combinations are eliminating. The Federation
here spoke of "the American institution of unrestricted production," which can mean nothing
less than unrestricted competition, and condemned the "Steel Trust" because it controls production,
whereas the regulation or control of production is precisely the most essential thing to be
desired in a progressive industrial society--a control, of course, to be turned as soon as
possible to the benefit of all the people.

The Federation's attack was not only economically reactionary, but it was practically disloyal
to millions of employees. It applies against the "trust," which happens to be unpopular, arguments
which apply even more strongly to competitive business. The trust, it said, corrupts legislative
bodies and is responsible for the high tariff. As if all these practices had not begun before
the "trusts" came into being, as if the associated manufacturers are not even more strenuous
advocates of all the tariffs--which are life and death matters to them--than the "trusts,"
which might very well get along without them. Finally, the Federation accuses the "Steel Trust"
of an especially oppressive policy towards its working people, apparently forgetting its arch
enemy, the manufacturer's association. It is notorious, moreover, that the smallest employers,
such as the owners of sweat shops, nearly always on the verge of bankruptcy and sometimes on
the verge of starvation themselves, are harder on their labor than the industrial combinations,
and that in competitive establishments, like textile mills, the periods when employers are
forced to close down altogether are far more frequent, making the average wages the year round
far below those paid by any of the trusts. The merest glance at the statistics of the United
States census will be sufficient evidence to prove this. For not only are weekly wages lower
in the textile mills and several other industries than they are in the steel corporation, but
also employment year in and year out is much more irregular. Here we see the unions adopting
the politics of the small capitalists, not only on its constructive or "State Socialist" side,
but also in its reactionary tendency, now being rapidly outgrown, of trying to restore competition,
and actually working against their own best interests for this purpose.

     A writer in the Federationist demands "a reduction of railway
     charges, express rates, telegraph rates, telephone rates," and a
     radical change in the great industrial corporations such as the
     Steel Trust, which is to be subjected to thorough regulation.
     Swollen fortunes are to be broken up, together with the power of
     the monopolists, of "the gamblers in the necessities of life,
     etc."[243] In this writer's opinion (Mr. Shibley), the monopolists
     are the chief cause of high prices and the only important
     anti-social group, and all the other classes of society have a
     common interest with the wage earners. But business interests,
     manufacturers, the owners of large farms, and employers in lines
     where competition still prevails, would also, with the fewest
     exceptions, take sides against the working people in any great
     labor conflict--as the history of every modern country for the past
     fifty years has shown. It is not "Big Business" or "The Interests,"
     but business in general, not monopolistic employers, but the whole
     employing class, against which the unions have contended and always
     must contend--on the economic as well as the political field. Mr.
     Gompers and his associates, like Mr. Bryan and Senator La Follette,
     demand that the people shall rule, but they all depend upon the
     hundreds of thousands of business men as allies, who, if opposed to
     government by monopolies, are still more opposed to government by
     their employees or by the consumers of their products, and are
     certain to fight any political movement of which they are a
     predominating part.

The American Federation of Labor, and the majority of the labor unions comprising it, are thus
seen to have a political program scarcely distinguishable from that of the radical wing of
either of the large parties,--for it seeks little if any more than to join in with the general
movement against monopolists and large capitalists in a conflict that can never be won or lost,
since the leaders in the movement are themselves indirectly and at the bottom a part of the
capitalist class.

The President of the American Federation views this partly reactionary and partly "State Socialist"
program as being directed against "capitalism." "The votes of courageous and honest citizens
in all civilized lands," says Mr. Gompers, "are cutting away the capitalistic powers' privilege
to lay tribute on the producers. Capitalism, as a surviving form of feudalism,--the power to
deprive the laborer of his product,--gives signs of expiring."[244] Democratic reform and improvement
in economic conditions are apparently taken by Mr. Gompers as a sign that capitalism is expiring
and that society is progressing satisfactorily to the wage earners. Although the constitution
of the Federation says that the world-wide "struggle between the capitalist and the laborer"
is a struggle between "oppressors and oppressed," Mr. Gompers gives the outside world to understand
that the unions have no inevitable struggle before them, but are as interested in industrial
peace as are the employers. He has expressed his interpretation of the purpose of the Federation
in the single word "more." He sees progress and asks a share for the unionists as each forward
step is taken. He does not ask that labor's share be increased in proportion to the progress
made--to say nothing of asking that this share should be made disproportionately large in order
gradually to make the distribution of income more equal. A capitalism inspired by a more enlightened
selfishness might, without any ultimate loss, grant all the Federation's present demands, political
as well as economic. Therefore, Mr. Gompers, quite logically, does not see any necessity for
an aggressive attitude.

"Labor unions," says Mr. John Mitchell, who takes a similar view, "are for workmen, but against
no one. They are not hostile to employers, not inimical to the interests of the general public.
They are for a class, because that class exists and has class interests, but the unions did
not create and do not perpetuate the class or its interests and do not seek to evoke a class
conflict."[245] Here it is recognized that the working class exists as a class and has interests
of its own. But, if, as Mr. Mitchell adds, the unions do not wish to perpetuate this class
or its interests, then surely they must see to it, as far as they are able, that members of
this class have equal industrial opportunities with other citizens, and that its children should
at least be no longer compelled to remain members of a class from which, as he expressly acknowledges,
there is at present no escape.

Both Mr. Gompers and Mr. Mitchell have gone to the defense of the leading anti-Socialist organization
in this country, Civic Federation--and nothing could draw in stronger colors than do their
arguments the complete conflict of the Gompers-Mitchell labor union policy to that of the Socialists.
Mr. Gompers defends the Federation as worthy of labor's respect on the ground that many of
its most active capitalist members have shown a sustained sincerity, "always having in mind
the rights and interests of labor," which is the very antithesis to the Socialist claim that
nobody will always have in mind the rights and the interests of labor, except the laborers--and
least of all those who buy labor themselves, or are intimately associated with those who buy labor.

Mr. Mitchell says that through the Civic Federation many employers have become convinced that
their antagonism to unions was based on prejudice, and have withdrawn their opposition to the
organization of the men in their plants. No doubt this is strictly true. It shows that the
unions had been presented to the employers as being profitable to them. This, Socialists would
readily admit, might be the case with some labor organizations as they have been shaped by
leaders like Mr. Mitchell and conferences like those of the Civic Federation. To Socialists
organizations that create this impression of harmony of interests do exactly what is most dangerous
for the workers--that is, they make them less conscious and assertive of their own interests.

The Civic Federation, composed in large part of prominent capitalists and conservatives, endeavors
to allay the discontent of labor by intimate association with the officers of the unions. Socialists
have long recognized the tendency of trade-union leaders to be persuaded by such methods to
the capitalist view. Eight years ago at Dresden, August Bebel had already seen this danger,
for he placed in the same class with the academic "revisionists" those former proletarians
who had been raised into higher positions and were lost to the working classes through "intercourse
with people of the contrary tendency." It is this class of leaders, according to the Socialists,
which, up to the present, has dominated the trade unions of Great Britain and the United States
and occasionally of other countries.

No Socialist has been more persistent in directing working-class opinion against all such "leaders"
than Mr. Debs, who does not mince matters in this direction. "The American Federation of Labor,"
he writes, "has numbers, but the capitalist class do not fear the American Federation of Labor;
quite the contrary. There is something wrong with that form of unionism whose leaders are the
lieutenants of capitalism; something is wrong with that form of unionism that forms an alliance
with such a capitalist combination as the Civic Federation, whose sole purpose is to chloroform
the working class while the capitalist class go through their pockets.... The old form of trade
unionism no longer meets the demands of the working class. The old trade union has not only
fulfilled its mission and outlived its usefulness, but is now positively reactionary, and is
maintained, not in the interest of the workers who support it, but in the interest of the capitalist
class who exploit the workers who support it."

In a recent speech Mr. Debs related at length the Socialist view as to how, in his opinion,
this misleading of labor leaders comes about:--

     "There is an army of men who serve as officers, who are on the
     salary list, who make a good living, keeping the working class
     divided. They start out with good intentions as a rule. They really
     want to do something to serve their fellows. They are elected
     officers of a labor organization, and they change their clothes.
     They now wear a white shirt and a standing collar. They change
     their habits and their methods. They have been used to cheap
     clothes, coarse fare, and to associating with their fellow workers.
     After they have been elevated to official position, as if by magic
     they are recognized by those who previously scorned them and held
     them in contempt. They find that some of the doors that were
     previously barred against them now swing inward, and they can
     actually put their feet under the mahogany of the capitalist.

     "Our common labor man is now a labor leader. The great capitalist
     pats him on the back and tells him that he knew long ago that he
     was a coming man, that it was a fortunate thing for the workers of
     the world that he had been born, that in fact they had long been
     waiting for just such a wise and conservative leader. And this has
     a certain effect upon our new-made leader, and unconsciously,
     perhaps, he begins to change--just as John Mitchell did when Mark
     Hanna patted him on the shoulder and said, 'John, it is a good
     thing that you are at the head of the miners. You are the very man.
     You have the greatest opportunity a labor leader ever had on this
     earth. You can immortalize yourself. Now is your time.' Then John
     Mitchell admitted that this capitalist, who had been pictured to
     him as a monster, was not half as bad as he had thought he was;
     that, in fact, he was a genial and companionable gentleman. He
     repeats his visit the next day, or the next week, and is
     introduced to some other distinguished person he had read about,
     but never dreamed of meeting, and thus goes on the transformation.
     All his dislikes disappear, and all feeling of antagonism vanishes.
     He concludes that they are really most excellent people, and, now
     that he has seen and knows them, he agrees with them there is no
     necessary conflict between workers and capitalists. And he proceeds
     to carry out this pet capitalist theory, and he can only do it by
     betraying the class that trusted him and lifted him as high above
     themselves as they could reach.

     "It is true that such a leader is in favor with the capitalists;
     that their newspapers write editorials about him and crown him a
     great and wise leader; and that ministers of the gospel make his
     name the text for their sermons, and emphasize the vital point that
     if all labor leaders were such as he, there would be no objections
     to labor organizations. And the leader feels himself flattered. And
     when he is charged with having deserted the class he is supposed to
     serve, he cries out that the indictment is brought by a discredited
     labor leader. And that is probably true. The person who brings a
     charge is very likely discredited. By whom? By the capitalist
     class, of course; and its press and pulpit and 'public' opinion.
     And in the present state of the working class, when he is
     discredited by the capitalists, he is at once repudiated by their
     wage slaves."[246]

Mr. Debs's attitude toward Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Gompers is by no means exceptional among Socialists.
Mr. Gompers visited Europe in 1909, spoke at length in Paris and Berlin, and was viewed by
the majority of the European Socialists and unionists almost exactly as he is by Mr. Debs.
Among other things he said there, was that the very kernel of the difference between the European
and the American labor movement and the reason why the wages are so much better in America
than in Europe was the friendlier relations between the government and the working people in
this country--this after all the recent court decisions against the unions, decisions which,
even when outwardly milder, have precisely the same effect as the hostile legislation and administration
of the Continent. Mr. Gompers, while in Europe, said that it was unnecessary that governments
and the working people should misunderstand one another, and asked, "Is there not for us all
the common ground of the fatherland, of common interest and the wish that we feel to make our
people more prosperous, happier and freer?" "I do not know what I will see there [in Hungary],"
he continued, "but this much I will say, that I know that nothing will convince me that this
readiness of the workingmen to fight against the government and of the government to fight
against the workingmen can bring anything good to either side."[247]

Such expressions naturally aroused the European Socialist and Labor press, and Kautsky even
devoted a special article to Gompers in the Neue Zeit.[248] It was not necessary in a Socialist
periodical to say anything against Gompers's preaching of the common interests of capital and
labor, since there is practically no Socialist who would not agree that such a belief amounts
to a total blindness to industrial and political conditions. But Kautsky feared that the German
workingmen might give some credit to Gompers's claim that the non-Socialist policy of the American
unions was responsible for the relatively greater prosperity of the working people in America.
"The workingmen," he explained, referring to this country, "have not won their higher wages
in the last decade, but have inherited them from their forefathers. They were principally a
result of the presence of splendid lands from which every man who wanted to become independent
got as much as he needed."

Then he proceeded to show by the statistics of the Department of Labor that daily real wages,
measured in terms of what they would buy, had actually decreased for the majority of American
workingmen during the last decade. It is true, as Mr. Gompers replied, that the hours have
become somewhat less, and that therefore the amount of real wages received per hour of work
has slightly increased, though there are few working people who will count themselves very
fortunate in a decrease of hours if it is paid for even in a part by a decrease of the real
wages received at the end of the day. And even if we compare the early nineties with the last
years of the recent decade, we find that the slight increase in the purchasing power of the
total wages received (i.e. real wages) amounted at the most to no more than two or three per
cent in these fifteen years. In a word, the disproportion between the prosperity of the wage
earning and capitalist classes has in the past two decades become much greater than ever before.

The basis of the Socialist economic criticism of existing society--and one that appeals to
the majority of the world's labor unionists also--is that while the proportion of the population
that consists of wage earners is everywhere increasing, the share of the national income that
goes to wages is everywhere growing less. There is no more striking, easily demonstrable, or
generally admitted fact in modern life. The whole purpose of Socialism--in so far as it can
be expressed in terms of income, is to reverse this tendency and to keep it reversed until
private capital is reduced to impotence, as far as the control of industry is concerned.

Contrast with the position of Gompers and Mitchell the chief official of the German unions,
Karl Legien, a relatively conservative representative of Continental unionism.

     "The unions," he says, "are based on the conviction that there is
     an unbridgeable gulf between capital and labor. This does not mean
     that the capitalists and laborers may not, as men, find points of
     contact; it means only that the accumulation of capital, resting as
     it does on keeping from the laborer a part of the products of his
     labor, forces a propertyless proletariat to sell its labor at any
     price it can get. Between those who wish to maintain these
     conditions and the propertyless laborers there is a wall which can
     be done away with only by the abolition of wage labor. Here the
     views prevailing in the unions are at one with those of the Social
     Democratic Party."

     "The unions are chiefly occupied in the effort to use their power
     to shape the labor contract in their favor, and do not consider it
     as their task to propagate this view, but holds the propaganda as
     being the task rather of the Social Democratic Party and its
     organizations."

Even the struggle for higher wages and shorter hours carried on by the unions, Legien says,
is fought in the consciousness that it will make labor "more capable of the final solution
of the social problem." He reminds us that the overwhelming majority of the German unionists
are Socialists, and says that the labor conflict itself must have led to this result, though
he does not want the unions to support the party as unions. In other countries of the Continent,
unionists go even farther. In Austria, Belgium, and elsewhere the two organizations act as
a single body, and in France, not satisfied with working for Socialism as members of the party,
unionists also make it a declared end of their unions, independently of all political action,
and shape their everyday policies accordingly.

It is only when we come to Great Britain that we find the unions in a conciliatory relation
with employers such as has hitherto prevailed in the United States. The relation between the
unions and capitalistic "State Socialists" of Great Britain has been friendly. As I have already
noted, the enthusiasm of the British unions for the social reforms of the Liberal Party and
government has hitherto been so great that they consented that the increase of the taxation
needed to pay for these reforms should fall on their shoulders, while the wealthy classes made
the world ring with epithets of "revolution" because a burden of almost exactly the same weight
was placed on them to pay for the Dreadnoughts they demanded, and because land was nationally
taxed for the first time, Mr. Churchill himself conceded that his social reform budget "draws
nearly as much from the taxation of tobacco and spirits, which are the luxuries of the working
classes, who pay their share with silence and dignity, as it does from those wealthy classes
upon whose behalf such heart-rending outcry is made."[249]

Perhaps the fact that the labor unions of Great Britain up to 1910 spent less than a tenth
part of their income on strikes was a still stronger ground for Mr. Churchill's admiration,
since he had to deal with the strikers as President of the Board of Trade. While the national
income of the country has been increasing enormously in the past two decades, and the higher
or taxed incomes have more than doubled (which is a rate of increase far greater than the rise
in prices), the income even of unionized workers has not kept up with this rise. In a word,
the propertied classes are getting a larger and larger share of the national income (see Mr.
Churchill's language in preceding chapter). Now should the unions continue in the moderation
of their demands,--or even should they obtain a 10 or 20 per cent increase (as some have done
since the railway and seamen's strike of 1911),--the propertied classes would still have been
getting a larger and larger share of the national income. From 1890 to 1899 prices in England
are estimated to have fallen 5 per cent, while wages of organized working-men rose 2 per cent;
from 1900 to 1908 prices rose 6 per cent, while these wages fell 1 per cent. A 7 per cent improvement
in the first decade was followed by a 7 per cent retrogression in the second--among organized
workers.[250] There is then no probability that the British unions will check the constant
decrease in the share of the total wealth of the country that goes to the wage earner, until
they have completed the reversal of older policies now in progress. That this may soon occur
is indicated by the great strikes of 1911 (which I shall consider in the next chapter).

The American unions also are beginning to take a more radical and Socialistic attitude. At
its Convention at Columbus, Ohio (January, 1911), the United Mine Workers, after prolonged
discussion, passed by a large majority an amendment to their constitution, forbidding their
officers from acting as members of the Civic Federation. This resolution was confessedly aimed
at Mr. John Mitchell, as Vice President of the Civic Federation, and resulted in his resignation
from that body. It marks a crisis in the American Labor movement. The Miners' Union had already
indorsed Socialism, its Vice President is a party Socialist, and its present as well as its
former President vote the Socialist ticket. Having forced the Federation of Labor to admit
the revolutionary Western Federation of Miners into the Federation of Labor Congresses, the
element opposed to Mr. Gompers and Mr. Mitchell's conservative tactics has, for the first time,
become formidable, embracing one third of the delegates, and is likely to bring about great
changes within a few years, both as to the Federation's political and as to its labor-union policy.

This action of the Miners was followed a few months later by the election to office of several
of Mr. Gompers's Socialist opponents in his own union (the Cigarmakers). Then another of Mr.
Gompers's most valued lieutenants (after Mr. Mitchell), Mr. James O'Connell, for many years
President of the very important Machinists' Union, was defeated by a Socialist, Mr. W. H. Johnston,--after
a very lively contest in which Socialism and the Civic Federation, and their contrasting the
labor policies, played a leading part. The old conservative trade unionism is not only going,
but it is going so fast that one or two more years like the last would overwhelm it in the
national convention of the Federation of Labor and revolutionize the policy of the whole movement.

The change in the political attitude of the American unions has been equally rapid. Until a
few years ago the majority of them were opposed to coöperation with any political party. Then
they decided almost unanimously to act nationally, and for the time being with the Democrats,
and this decision still holds. More recently several local labor parties have been formed,
and the Socialist Party has occasionally been supported. The only question that interests us,
however, is the purpose behind these changing political tactics.

It is natural that unionists on entering into the Socialist Party should seek to control it.
Socialists make no objection at this point. The only question relates to their purpose in seeking
control. A prominent Socialist miner, John Walker, has frankly advocated a Labor Party of the
British type, while others wish to turn the Socialist Party into that sort of an organization;
while the Secretary of the Oklahoma Federation of Labor, on joining the Party said: "Let us
get into the Socialist Party--on the inside--and help run it as we think it should be run,"
and then gave an idea of how he proposed to run it by accusing the Party of containing too
many people "who are Socialists before anything else." This is a common feeling among new labor-union
recruits in the Party. It is difficult to see the difference between those who share Walker's
view and want to carry out the present non-Socialist political program of the unions through
a non-Socialist Labor Party and those who, like this other union official, expect to use the
Socialist Party for the same purpose. Let us notice the similarity of certain arguments used
in favor of each method.

     "The Socialist Party," says the organ of the Garment Workers'
     Union, "does not command the confidence of American labor to the
     extent of becoming a national power in our day and generation, and
     it is, therefore, necessary that the working class should turn its
     attention to the formation of a party that will be productive of
     practical results in sweeping away the legislative and the legal
     obstacles that now stand in the way of our rights and
     progress."[251]

     "Much is being written and said nowadays as to the danger of
     Socialism and in favor of trades unionism," writes the Mine
     Workers' Journal, "To us the condemnation of the Socialists,
     coming as it does from the capitalistic press, is a reminder that
     of the two evils to their selfish class interest, they prefer the
     least.... It is useless to attempt to divide trades unionism from
     Socialism. It cannot be done. They have all learned that their
     interests are common; they know that labor divided will continue to
     suffer, and will hang together before they will allow capital to
     hang them separately.

     "Indeed, looking at trades unionism in all its phases and from
     every angle, we fail to see why Socialism and it should be
     separated. The man or men in the movement to-day who are not more
     or less Socialistic in their belief are few and far between and do
     not know what the principles of unionism are, or what it stands
     for. We are all more or less Socialistic in our belief."[252]

A perusal of the labor papers in general shows that while a number agree with the Garment Workers
a still larger number share the opinion of the Mine Workers' Journal. Yet what is the essential
difference?

The Garment Workers' organ claims that the European Socialists and trade unionists support
one another's candidates and unite their power without the Socialists demanding the indorsement
of their program, and argues for that policy in this country. This statement is not accurate.
Only in England, where there has hitherto been no independent Socialist action of any consequence,
has there been any such compromise. On the Continent of Europe the Socialists usually agree
to leave the unions perfect freedom in their business, and not to interfere in the slightest
with their action on the economic field, but there is no important instance in recent years
where they have compromised with them at the ballot box. And this error is shared by the Mine
Workers' Journal, which, as I have just shown, is friendly rather than hostile to Socialism.
In another editorial in this organ we find it said that "whenever Socialism in America adopts
the methods of the British, and other European toilers and pulls in harness with trade unionism,
it is bound to make headway faster than at present, because there is scarcely a man in the
labor movement that is not more or less of a Socialist." Here again the British (Labor Party)
and the Continental (Socialist) methods are confused. It is true that the Socialist parties
and the labor unionists everywhere act together. But there are two fundamental differences
between the situation in Great Britain and that on the Continent. A large part of the unions
on the Continent are extremely radical if not revolutionary in their labor-union tactics, and
secondly, the overwhelming majority of their members are Socialists in politics. Surely there
could be no greater contrast than that between the swallowing up of the budding Socialist movement
by non-Socialist labor unions in Great Britain and the support of the Socialist Party by the
revolutionary unionist on the Continent.

In America only a minority of the unions are definitely and clearly Socialist. The local federations
of the unions in many of our leading cities have declared for the Party. Among the national
organizations, however, only the Western Federation of Miners, the Brewers, the Hat and Cap
Makers, the Bakers, and a few others, numbering together no more than a quarter of a million
members, have definitely indorsed Socialism. The Coal Miners, numbering nearly 300,000, have
indorsed collective ownership of industry, but without saying anything about the Socialist
Party. Besides these, the Socialist Party, of course, has numerous individual adherents in
every union. On the whole the Socialists are very much outnumbered in the unions, and as long
as this condition remains, the majority of Socialists do not desire anything approaching fusion
between the two movements.

Half a century ago, it is true, Marx himself favored the Socialists entering into a labor union
party in England. He assumed that English unions would soon go into politics, whereas they
took half a century to do it; he assumed, also, that when they entered politics they would
be more or less militant and independent, and he never imagined that during fifteen years of
"independent action" they would oppose revolutionary and militant ideas more than ever, and
would even go so far in support of the Liberal Party as almost to bring about a split within
their own anti-revolutionary ranks. Certainly Marx expected that they would accept his leading
principles, whereas only the smallest minority of the present Labor Party has done so, while
the majority has not yet consented to make Socialism an element of the Party's constitution,
confining themselves to a broad general declaration in favor of "State Socialism"--and even
this not to be binding on its members.

Marx's standard for a workingmen's party was Socialism and nothing less than Socialism. In
his famous letter on the Gotha program addressed in 1875 to Bebel, Liebknecht, and others,
at the time of the formation of the Socialist Party and perhaps the greatest practical crisis
in Marx's lifetime, he said, it will be recalled, that "every step of real movement is more
important than a dozen programs," but he was even then against any sacrifice of essential principle.
He saw that the workingmen themselves might be satisfied by "the mere fact of the union" of
his followers with those of LaSalle, but he said that it was an error to believe that this
momentous result could not be bought too dearly, and if any principle was to be sacrificed,
he preferred, instead of fusion, "a simple agreement against the common enemy."

While Socialist workingmen, then, are inclined to attach more importance to the Socialist Party
than to conservative unionism, they expect the new aggressive, democratic, and revolutionary
unionism to do even more for Socialism, at least in the expected crisis of the future, than
the Party itself. The tendency of the unions towards politics is merely an automatic result
of the tendency of governments and capitalists towards a certain form of collectivism. Far
more significant is their tendency towards Socialism whether through politics or through the
strike, the boycott, and other means.

Trade unionism, transferred to the field of politics, is not Socialism. The struggles against
employers for more wages, less hours, and better conditions has no necessary relation to the
struggle against capitalism for the control of industry and government. The former struggle
may evolve into the latter, and usually does so, but long periods may also intervene when it
takes no step in that direction. Moreover, a trade union party of the British type, whether
it takes the name Socialist or not, if it acts as rival to a genuine Socialist Party, checks
the latter's growth.

When revolutionary labor organizations composed largely of genuine Socialists enter into politics,
the situation is completely reversed--even when such organizations take the step primarily
for the sake of their unions rather than to aid the Socialist Party. This situation I shall
consider in the following chapter.

FOOTNOTES:

[240] Eugene V. Debs, "His Life and Writings," p. 140.

[241] John Mitchell, "Organized Labor," p. 208.

[242] Miss Hughan in her "American Socialism," p. 220, quotes an expression of mine (see the
New York Call, March 22, 1910) in which I said that "petty reforms never have aroused and never
will arouse the enthusiasm of the working class and do not permit of its coöperation, but leave
everything in the hands of a few self-appointed leaders."

Miss Hughan herself points out that I have never considered all so-called reforms as petty
(see "American Socialism of the Present Day," p. 216) and quotes (on p. 199) an expression
from the very article above mentioned in which I define what reforms I consider are of special
importance to the wage earners, namely, those protecting the strike, the boycott, free speech,
and civil government. I even mentioned labor legislation on a national scale. The petty reforms
I referred to were State labor laws. These will not only be carried out by non-Socialists,
but receive very little attention from active labor bodies such as the city and State federations,
which are almost wholly absorbed in the greater and more difficult task of defending the strike,
boycott, free speech, and sometimes civil government. Labor will do everything in its power
to promote child labor laws, workingmen's compensation etc., except to give them its chief
attention instead of the struggle for higher wages and the rights needed to carry it on effectively.
As a consequence these matters are left to a few selfish or unselfish persons, who are "self-appointed
leaders," even when the unions consent to leave these particular matters in their hands. For
active coöperation of the masses in the legal, economic, and political intricacies of such
legislation is not only undesirable, but impossible under the present system of society and
government. Labor must govern itself through instructed delegates, while such work can be done
only by representatives, who must often have the power to act without further consultation
with those who elected them.

[243] George H. Shibley in the American Federationist, June, 1910.

[244] Samuel Gompers in the American Federationist, 1910.

[245] John Mitchell, "Organized Labor" (Preface).

[246] Eugene V. Debs, op. cit.

[247] Karl Kautsky in Die Neue Zeit, 1909, p. 679.

[248] Karl Kautsky in Die Neue Zeit, 1909, p. 680.

[249] Winston Churchill, op. cit., pp. 77, 336, 337.

[250] Die Neue Zeit, June 11, 1911.

[251] The Weekly Bulletin of the Garment Trades (New York), 1910.

[252] The Mine Workers' Journal (Indianapolis), Aug. 26, 1909, and April 21, 1910.

CHAPTER V

SYNDICALISM; SOCIALISM THROUGH DIRECT ACTION OF LABOR UNIONS

In America, France, Italy, and England, as well as in Germany (in a modified form) a new and
more radical labor-union policy has been rapidly gaining the upper hand. This new movement--in
its purely economic, as well as its political, bearings--is of far greater moment to Socialists
than the political tendencies of those unions that continue to follow the old tactics in their
direct relations with employers.

In America and in England, unfortunately, the name given to this new movement, "industrial
unionism," is somewhat ambiguous. A more correct term would be "labor" unionism as distinct
from "trade" unionism, or "class unionism" against "sectional unionism." By "industrial unionism"
the promoters of the new movement means that all the employees of a given industry are to be
solidly bound together in a single union instead of being divided into many separate organizations
as so often happens to-day, and so as to act as a unit against the employer, as, for example,
the steel workers, machinists, longshoremen, structural iron workers, etc., are all to be united
against the Steel Trust. The essential idea is not any particular form of united action, but
united action. Certainly the united action of all the trades at work under a single employer
or employers' association is of the first importance, but it is equally important that "industrial"
unions so composed should aid one another, that the united railway organizations, for example,
should be ready to strike with seamen, dockers, etc., as was done in the recent British strike.
An interview with Mr. Vernon Hartshorn, who recently headed the poll in the election for the
executive committee of the important South Wales Mining Federation, indicates the tendency
in Great Britain at the present moment--when both coal and railway strikes are threatened on
a national scale--not merely towards industrial unionism, but towards the far more important
union of industrial unions, which is really the underlying idea in the minds of most, though
not all, of the propagandists of "industrial unionism."

     "I think it a very silly business," exclaimed Mr. Hartshorn
     emphatically, "for the workers in different industries to be
     proceeding with national movements independently of each other. A
     short time ago we had a national stoppage on the railways; that, as
     a matter of course, rendered the miners idle. Before that we had
     something in the nature of a national stoppage in the case of the
     seamen's dispute; that, also, in many districts paralysed the
     mining industry and rendered idle the workmen. Now it appears
     likely that the miners will be taking part in a national stoppage
     which, in turn, will render the railway men and seamen idle.

     "The idea is gradually dawning upon all sections of organized labor
     that the right thing to do would be for these three unions, through
     their executives, to establish a working alliance by means of which
     united action should be taken to secure reforms which would result
     in the raising of the standard of living of the whole of the
     workmen employed in these undertakings. Of course the grievances in
     different trades differ considerably in points of detail, but they
     all have a common basis in that they relate to wages and conditions
     of work. If the three organizations could be got to act together
     with a view of establishing a guaranteed minimum wage for all
     workmen employed, then not all the forces of the Crown, nor all the
     powers of government, could prevent them from emancipating
     themselves from their present deplorable position."[253]

It is equally necessary for the unions in order to obtain maximum results that a special relation
should be established between the members of such trades as are to be found in more than one
industry. Teamsters, stationary engineers, machinists, and blacksmiths, for example, whether
employed by mines, railways, or otherwise, can aid one another in obvious ways--as by securing
positions for blacklisted men and preventing non-unionists from obtaining employment--by means
of a special "trade" organization or federation that cuts across the various "industrial" unions
or federations. All this, indeed, is provided for in the plans of the "industrial unionists,"
in the idea of gradually reorganizing the present loose Federation of Labor into "a union of
unions," or, as they express it, "One Big Union." This last term also is not very fortunate,
for it is by no means proposed to form one absolutely centralized organization, like the former
Knights of Labor, but to preserve a considerable measure of autonomy for the constituent industrial
unions. Neither does the new unionism require, as some of its exponents allege, the abolition
of the older trade unions, either local or national, but only that all unions shall be democratically
organized and open to unskilled labor, and that the general organization, of which they are
all a part, shall be the first consideration, and the local groupings whether by trade or industry
only secondary.

The principle of the new union policy is exactly the same translated into terms of economic
action, as the principle of revolutionary Socialism as conceived by Marx, and hitherto applied
by Socialists chiefly on the political field. In the Communist Manifesto Marx says that the
chief thing that distinguishes the Socialists from the other working-class parties is that
the former "always and everywhere represent the interests of the movement as a whole." So while
the older unions represented the economic struggle of certain more or less extensive parts
of the working class, the industrial unionists aim at a unionism that represents the whole
of the working class, and, since the ranks of labor are always open, all non-capitalist humanity.
A closely organized federation of all the unions will rely very strongly upon numbers and embrace
a large proportion of unskilled workers. It will, therefore, be forced to fight the cause of
the common man. But this can only be done by fighting against every form of oppression and
privilege--all of which bear on the men at the bottom.

The industrial policy idea has received its most remarkable indorsement in the great British
railway strike of 1911. Before showing what lay behind this epoch-making movement, let me refer
to the great change in the British Union world that preceded it.

In 1910 there occurred an unprecedented series of strikes in the four larges industries of
the country, the railroads, shipbuilding, cotton, and coal-mining--all within a few months
of one another, and all against the advice of the officials of the unions. The full and exact
significance of this movement was seen when the hitherto conservative Trade Union Congress,
after a very vigorous debate, decided, on the motion of Ben Tillett, to take a referendum of
the unions on the question of the "practicability of a confederation of all trades" and on
the "possibility of terminating all trade agreements on a given date after each year."

In the same year a great agitation began, led by the most prominent advocate of industrial
unionism in Great Britain, the Socialist, Tom Mann, who with John Burns had been one of the
organizers of the great dockers' strike in 1886, and who had returned, in 1910, from many years
of successful agitation in Australia to preach the new unionism in his home country. That this
agitation was one of the causes of the great seamen's, dockers', and railway strikes that followed
is indicated by the fact that Mr. Mann was at once given the chief position in this movement.

His first principle is that the unions should include all the workers, in their respective
industries:--

     "Skilled workers, in many instances doing but little work, receive
     from two to seven or eight pounds a week, whilst the laborer,
     having the same responsibilities as regards family and citizenship,
     is compelled to accept one third of it or less.

     "This must not be. We must not preach social equality and utterly
     fail to practice it; and for those receiving the higher pay to try
     and satisfy the demands of the lower-paid man for better conditions
     by telling him it will be put right under Socialism, is on a par
     with the parson pretending to assuage the sufferings of the
     poverty-stricken by saying, 'It will be better in the next world.'
     It must be put right in this world, and we must see to it now."

Unions composed exclusively of skilled workers, as many of the present ones, operate against
the interests of the less skilled--often without actually intending to do so. Mr. Mitchell,
for instance, concedes that the trade unions bring about "the elimination of men who are below
a certain fixed standard of efficiency." This argument will appeal strongly to employers and
believers in the survival of the fittest doctrine. But it will scarcely appeal to the numerous
unskilled workers eliminated, or the still more numerous workers whose employment is thus lessened
at every slack season. Mr. Edmond Kelly shows how the principle acts--"Where there is a minimum
wage of $4 a day the workman can no longer choose to do only $3 worth of work and be paid accordingly,
but he must earn $4 or else cease from work, at least in that particular trade, locality, or
establishment."[254] The result is that the highest skilled workmen obtain steady employment
through the union, while the less skilled are penalized by underemployment. The unions have
equalized daily wages, but the employer has replied by making employment and therefore annual
wages all the more unequal, and many of the workers may have lost more than they gained. Whereas
if each man could secure an equal share of work, he might be paid according to his efficiency
and yet be far better off than now. But the only way to secure an equal amount of work for
all is through a union where all have an equal voice and where the union is strong enough to
have a say as to who is to be employed.

It is this tendency either automatically or intentionally actually to injure unskilled labor,
that has led men like Mann and Debs and Haywood to their severe criticism of the present policies
of the unions, and even affords some ground for Tolstoi's classification of well-paid artisans,
electricians, and mechanics among the exploiters of unskilled labor. In the days of serfdom,
the great writer said, "Only one class were slave owners; all classes, except the most numerous
one--consisting of peasants who have too little land, laborers, and workingmen--are slave-owners
now." The master class, Tolstoi says, to-day includes, not only "nobles, merchants, officials,
manufacturers, professors, teachers, authors, musicians, painters, rich peasants, and the rich
men's servants," but also "well-paid artisans, electricians, mechanics," etc.

Mr. Mann thus defines the attitude of this new unionism to the old:--

     "It is well known that in Britain, as elsewhere, there is only a
     minority of the workers organized; of the ten millions of men
     eligible for industrial organization only one fourth are members of
     trade unions; naturally these are, in the main, the skilled
     workers, who have associated together with a view to maintaining
     for themselves the advantage accruing to skilled workers, when
     definite restrictions are placed upon the numbers able to enter and
     remain in the trades.

     "We have had experience enough to know that the difficulties of
     maintaining a ring fence around an occupation, which secures to
     those inside the fence special advantages, are rapidly increasing,
     and in a growing number of instances, the fence has been entirely
     broken down by changes in the methods of production. We know,
     further, that ... the majority of trade unionists still remain
     sectionally isolated, powerless to act except in single'
     sectional bodies, and incapable of approaching each other and
     merging and amalgamating forces for common action. This it is that
     is responsible for the modern practice of entering into lengthy
     agreements between employers and workers. Sectional trade unions
     being incapable of offensive action, and gradually giving way
     before the persistent power of the better organized capitalist
     class, they fall back upon agreements for periods of from two to
     five years, during which time they undertake that no demands shall
     be made." (My italics.)

The industrialists, therefore, advocate the termination of all wage agreements simultaneously
and at short intervals or even at will (like tenancies at will, or call loans). They claim
that employers are practically free to terminate existing agreements whenever they please,
as they can always find grounds for dismissing individuals or for temporarily shutting down
their works or for otherwise discriminating against active unionists or varying the terms of
a contract before its expiration. But it is in America that the policy of no agreements, or
agreements at will is most advanced. In Great Britain it is thought that agreements for one
year and all ending on the same day may lead to the same results. If there is a central organization
with power to call strikes on the part of any combination of unions, and the large majority
of the workers are organized, it is held that the new unionism will soon prove irresistible,
even if agreements in this form are retained.

The recent strikes have not only been stimulated by this gospel and led by its chief representatives,
Tom Mann, Ben Tillett, and others, but from the very first they have been an actual application
of the new idea and have marked a long step towards the complete reorganization of the British
unions. They were started with the seamen's strike in June, when the dockers in many places
struck in sympathy, at the same time adding demands of their own. When the seamen won their
strike, they refused to go back to work at several points, against the advice of their conservative
officials, until the dockers received what they were striking for. With the dockers were involved
teamsters, and these from the first had agreed to support one another, for they were both connected
with Mr. Mann's "National Transport Workers' Federation." And the railway strike was largely
due to the fact that the railway unions decided at least to coöperate with this federation.
The dockers had remained on strike at Liverpool in sympathy with the railway porters who had
struck in the first instance to aid the dockers, and at the first strike conference of the
railway union officials, forty-one being present, it was voted unanimously "that the union
was determined not to settle the dispute with the companies unless the lockout imposed upon
their co-workers because of their support of the railroad men at Liverpool and elsewhere is
removed and all the men reinstated."

There can be little doubt that the railway strike would neither have taken place at the critical
time it did, nor have gone as far as it went, except for this new and concerted action which
embraced even the least skilled and least organized classes of labor.

Accompanying this movement toward common action, "solidarity" of labor, and more and more general
strikes, was the closely related reaction against existing agreements--on the ground that they
cripple the unions' power of effective industrial warfare. For several years there had been
a simultaneous movement on the part of the "State Socialist" government towards compulsory
arbitration, and among the unions against any interference on the part of a government over
which they have little or no control--the railway strike being directed, according to the unionists,
as much against the government as against the railways. For many years the government, represented
by Mr. Lloyd George or Mr. Winston Churchill, had acted as arbitrator in every great industrial
conflict, and had secured many minor concessions for the unions. As long as no critical conflict
occurred that might materially weaken either the government or the capitalist or employing
classes as a whole, this policy worked well. It was only by a railway strike, or perhaps by
a seamen's or miners' strike that it could be put to a real test. By the settlement of the
threatened railway strike of 1907 the employees had gained very little, and had voluntarily
left the final power to decide disputes in the hands of government arbitrators. A conservative
Labourite, Mr. J. R. MacDonald, writing late in 1910, said:--

     "We held at the time that the agreement which Mr. Bell accepted on
     behalf of the Railway Servants would not work. It was a surrender.
     The railway directors were consulted for days; they were allowed to
     alter the terms of agreement at their own sweet will, and when they
     agreed, the men's representatives were asked to go to the Board of
     Trade and were told that they could not alter a comma, could not
     sleep over the proposal, could not confer with any one about it,
     had to accept it there and then. In a moment of weakness they
     accepted. An agreement come to in such a way was not likely to be
     of any use to the men."[255]

Nevertheless, this extremely important settlement was accepted by the union. Mr. Churchill
did not know how to restrain his enthusiasm for unions that were so good as to fall in so obediently
with his political plans. "They are not mere visionaries or dreamers," says Churchill, "weaving
airy Utopias out of tobacco smoke. They are not political adventurers who are eager to remodel
the world by rule of thumb, who are proposing to make the infinite complexities of scientific
civilization and the multitudinous phenomena of great cities conform to a few barbarous formulas
which any moderately intelligent parrot could repeat in a fortnight. The fortunes of trade
unions are interwoven with the industries they serve. The more highly organized trade unions
are, the more clearly they recognize their responsibilities."[256]

By 1911 the whole situation was completely reversed. Over less important bodies of capitalists
and employers than the railways, the government had power and a will to exercise its power.
The railways, however, are practically a function of government--absolutely indispensable if
it is to retain its other powers undiminished. It was for this reason that little if any governmental
force was used against them, and the agreement of 1907 came to be of even less value to the
men than agreements made in other industries. When the chorus of union complaints continued
to swell, and the men asked the government to bring pressure on the railways, at least to meet
their committee, it acknowledged itself either unable or unwilling to take any effective action
unless to renew the offer to appoint another royal commission, essentially of the same character
as that of 1907 except that it should be smaller and should act more speedily. This still meant
that the third member of the board was to be appointed by a government, in which experience
had taught the workers they could have no confidence--at least in its dealings with the powerful
railways.

In view of this inherent weakness of the government, or its hostility to the new and aggressive
unionism, or perhaps a combination of both, the unions had no recourse other than a direct
agreement or a strike. But the refusal of the railways to meet the men left no alternative
other than the strike, and at the same time showed that they did not much fear that the unions
could strike with success. It was no longer a question of the justice or injustice, truth or
untruth, of the unions' claims. The railways, in a perfectly practical and businesslike spirit,
questioned the power of the unions, by means of a strike, to cause them sufficient damage to
make it profitable even to meet their representatives--without the presence of a government
representative, who, they had learned by experience, would in all probability take a position
with which they would be satisfied. Mr. Asquith's offer, then, to submit the "correctness"
of the unions' statements and the "soundness" of their contentions to a tribunal, was entirely
beside the point. The representatives of the railways were sure to give such a tribunal to
understand, however diplomatically and insidiously, that the unions were without that power,
which alone, in the minds of "practical" men, can justify any considerable demand, such as
the settlement of all questions through the representatives of the men (the recognition of
the union).

Doubtless the railways had refused to meet the union representatives until they felt assured
that the government's position would on the whole be satisfactory to them. The government's
real attitude was made plain when, after the refusal of the unions practically to leave their
whole livelihood and future in its hands, as in 1907, it used this as a pretext for taking
sides against them--not by prohibiting the strike, but by limiting more and more narrowly the
scope it was to be allowed to take.

The government loudly protested its impartiality, and gave very powerful and plausible arguments
for interference. But the laborers feel that the right not to work is as essential as life
itself, and all that distinguishes them essentially from slaves, and that no argument whatever
is valid against it. Let us look at a few of the government statements:--

The government, said the Premier, was perfectly impartial in regard to the merits of the various
points of dispute. The government had regard exclusively for the interests of the public, and
having regard for those interests they could not allow the paralysis of the railway systems
throughout the country, and would have to take the necessary steps to prevent such paralysis.

The representatives of the unions replied by a public statement, in which they declared that
this was an "unwarrantable threat" and an attempt to put the responsibility for the suspension
of work on the unions:--

     "We consider the statement made in behalf of his Majesty's
     government, an unwarrantable threat uttered against the railroad
     workers who for years have made repeated applications to the Board
     of Trade and also to Parliament to consider the advisability of
     amending the conciliation board scheme of 1907.... And further it
     shows a failure of the Board of Trade to amend its own scheme, and
     also of the railroad companies to give an impartial and fair
     interpretation of such schemes.... And inasmuch as this joint
     meeting has already urged the employers to meet us with a view to
     discussing the whole position and which, if agreed to by them,
     would in our opinion have settled the matter, we therefore refuse
     to accept the responsibility the government has attempted to throw
     upon us, and further respectfully but firmly ask his Majesty's
     government whether the responsibility of the railroad companies is
     in any degree less than that of other employers of labor."

In other words, there is and can be no law compelling men to labor, and no matter what the
consequences of their refusal to work, it is a matter that concerns the workers themselves
more than all other persons.

Mr. Winston Churchill made a more detailed statement. He said that "the government was taking
all necessary steps to make sure that the food supply as well as fuel and other essentials
should not be interrupted on the railways or at the ports."

     "All services vital to the community should be maintained, and the
     government would see to that, not because they were on the side
     either of the employers or the workmen, but because they were bound
     to protect the public from the danger that a general arrest of
     industry would entail." He continued:--

     "The means whereby the people of this land live are highly
     artificial, and a serious breakdown would lead to starvation among
     a great number of poorer people. Not the well-to-do would suffer,
     but the poor of the great cities and those dependent upon them, who
     would be quite helpless if the machinery by which they are fed--on
     which they are dependent for wages--was thrown out of gear.

     "The government believes that the arrangements made for working the
     lines of communication, and for the maintenance of order, will
     prove effective; but, if not, other measures of even larger scope
     will be taken promptly. It must be clearly understood that there is
     no escape from these facts, and, as they affect the supply of food
     for the people, and the safety of the country, they are far more
     important than anything else."

To this the railway workers answered that it is to protect their own food that they strike,
and that food is as important to them as to others, that practically all those who are dependent
on wages are willing to undergo the last degree of suffering to preserve the right to strike,
that the means of livelihood of this majority are no whit less important than the "safety"
of the rest of the country. Moreover, if the government is allowed to use military or other
means to aid the railways to transport food, fuel, and other things, more or less essential,
it prevents that very "paralysis" which is the necessary object of every strike. Industrial
warfare of this critical kind must indeed be costly to the whole community, often endangering
health and even life itself, but the workers are almost unanimous in believing that a few days
or weeks of this, repeated only after years of interval, costs far less in life and health
than the low wages paid to labor year after year and generation after generation. They demand
the right to strike unhampered by any government in which capitalistic or other than wage-earning
classes predominate. Only when the government falls into the hands of a group of wholly non-capitalist
classes--of which wage earners form the majority--will they expect it to grant such rights
and conditions as are sufficient to compensate them for parting with any element of the right
to strike.

The great British strike, then, had a double significance. It showed the tremendously increased
strength of labor when every class of workers is organized and all are united together, and
it showed an increasing unwillingness to allow separate agreements to stand in the way of general
strikes.

     The strength of the strikers in the British upheaval of 1911,
     however, has been grossly exaggerated on both sides. There is no
     doubt that the aggressive action came from the masses of the
     workers, as their leaders held them back in nearly every instance.
     There is no question that the various unions coöperated more than
     usual, that vast masses of the unskilled were for the first time
     organized, and that these features won the strikes. The advance was
     remarkable--but we can only measure the level reached if we realize
     the point from which the start was made. As a matter of fact, the
     unskilled labor of Great Britain until 1911 was probably worse paid
     and less organized than that of any great manufacturing
     country--and the advance made by no means brings it to the level of
     the United States.

     Since the great dock strike of 1886, led by John Burns and Tom
     Mann, unskilled labor has tried in vain to organize effectively
     unions like those of the seamen and railway servants, the majority
     of whose members were neither of the least skilled nor of the most
     skilled classes, had an uphill fight, and were only able to
     organize a part of the workers. Five dollars a week was considered
     such a high and satisfactory wage by the wholly unskilled (dockers,
     etc.) that it was often made the basis of their demands. The Board
     of Trade Report shows that 400,000 railwaymen, including the most
     skilled, had from 1899 to 1909 an average weekly wage varying from
     $6.35 to $6.60 per week. The railway union found that of a quarter
     of a million men 39 per cent got less than $5 a week, and 89 per
     cent less than $7.50. Seamen at Liverpool received from $20 to
     $32.50 a month.

     If then the Liverpool sailors received an increase of $2.50 a
     month, while the wages of other strikers were raised on the average
     about 20 per cent, what must we conclude? Undoubtedly the gain was
     worth all the labor and sacrifice it cost. But it must be
     remembered, first, that these wages are still markedly inferior to
     those of this country in spite of its hordes of foreign labor; and
     second, that the increase is little if any above the rise in the
     cost of living in recent years, and will undoubtedly soon be
     overtaken by a further rise. The great steamship lines increased
     their rates on account of the strike almost the same week that it
     was concluded, and the railway companies gave in only when the
     government consented that they should raise their rates. But the
     larger part of the consumers are workingmen, and their cost of
     living is thus rising more rapidly than ever on account of the
     strikes. Finally, the unions of the unskilled are as a rule not
     yet recognized by their employers, while the railway union is
     probably as completely at the mercy of the government as ever.

     In a word, the point reached is by no means very advanced; on the
     other hand, the material gain made in view of the former
     backwardness of the railwaymen, seamen, and dockers is highly
     important for England, while the methods employed, the movement
     having originated from below, and having been sustained against
     conservative leaders (only a few radicals like Tom Mann and Ben
     Tillett being trusted), is of world-wide significance. The unions
     as well as their common organizations, the Trade Union Congress,
     the Labour Party, and the General Federation of Trade Unions are
     drawing closer together, while the Socialists and revolutionary
     unionists are everywhere taking the lead--as evidenced, for
     example, by the election of the most radical Socialist member of
     Parliament, Mr. Will Thorne, to be President of the 1912 Trade
     Union Congress.

     The success of the new movement as against the older Labour Party
     and trade union tactics may also be seen from the disturbed state
     of mind of the older leaders. Take, for example, the attack of the
     Chairman of the Labour Party, Mr. J. R. MacDonald:--

     "The new revolution which Syndicalism and its advocates of the
     Industrial Workers of the World contemplate has avoided none of the
     errors or the pitfalls of the old, but it has added to them a whole
     series of its own. It has never considered the problems which it
     has to meet. It is, as expressed in the Outlook of this month, a
     mere escapade of the nursery mind. It is the product of the
     creative intelligence of the man who is impatient because it takes
     the earth twenty-four hours to wheel around the sun (sic).... The
     hospitality which the Socialist movement has offered so generously
     to all kinds of cranks and scoundrels because they professed to be
     in revolt against the existing order has already done our movement
     much harm. Let it not add Syndicalism to the already too numerous
     vipers which, in the kindness of its heart, it is warming on its
     hearthstones."[257] [258]

The new revolutionary unionism takes different forms in Great Britain, France, and America.
In France it has expressed itself through agitation for the general strike and against the
army, the only thing that a general strike movement has to fear. The agitation has completely
captured the national federation of unions, has a well-developed literature, a daily paper
(La Bataille Syndicaliste--The Union Battle,--established in 1911), and has put its principles
into effect in many ways, especially by more numerous and widespread strikes and by attacks
on military discipline. But there has been no strike so nearly general as the recent British
one, and both the efforts in this direction and those directed against the army have a future
rather than a present importance and will be considered in succeeding chapters (Part III, Chapters
VI and VII).

In America the new movement first appeared several years ago in the very radical proposal indorsed
at the time by Debs, Haywood, and many prominent Socialists, to replace the older unions by
a new set built on entirely different principles, including organizations of the least skilled,
and the solid union of all unions for fighting purposes. This movement took concrete form in
a new organization, the Industrial Workers of the World, which was launched with some promise,
but soon divided into factions and was abandoned by Debs and others of its organizers. It has
grown in strength in some localities, having conducted the remarkable struggles at McKees Rocks
(Pa.) and Lawrence (Mass.), but is not at present a national factor--which is in part due,
perhaps, to the fact that the older unions are tending, though gradually, towards somewhat
similar principles.

Not only is Socialism spreading rapidly in all the unions, but along with it is spreading this
new unionism. For many years the Western Federation of Miners, famous as the central figure
in all the labor wars in the Rocky Mountain States, was the most powerful union in this country
that was representative both of revolutionary Socialism and of revolutionary unionism. But
it was not a part of the American Federation of Labor. When it became closely united with the
Coal Miners, and the latter union forced its admission into the American Federation of Labor
(in 1911), it at once began a campaign for its principles inside this organization. It now
stands for two proposals, the first of which would solidly unite all the unions, and the second
of which would cut all bonds between labor and capital. Neither is likely to be adopted this
year, but both seem sure of a growing popularity and will in all probability result in some
radical and effective action within a very few years.

In its Convention of July, 1911, the Western Federation of Miners decided to demand of the
Federation of Labor the free exchange of membership cards among all its constituent unions.
Thus the unions would preserve their autonomy, but every member would be free, when he changed
his employer, to pass from one to the other without cost. The result would be that quarrels
between the unions over members would lessen automatically, and also admission fees, dues,
and benefits would tend towards a level. Thus all the things that keep the unions apart and
prevent common action against the employer would be gradually removed, and the tendency of
certain unions to ignore the interests of others reduced to a minimum. The plan is practical,
because it has already been in successful operation for many years in France.

Another new policy--which should be regarded as a supplementary means for bringing about the
same result--would be to so strengthen and democratize the general Federation as to allow great
power to be placed in the hands of the executive, and at the same time subject it to the direct
control of the combined rank and file of all the unions. If, for example, national Federation
officials were elected, instructed, and recalled by a vote of all the unionists in the country,
the latter would probably be willing to place in the hands of such an executive power to call
out the unions in strike in such combinations as would make the resistance of employers most
difficult, and power to control national strike funds collected from all the unions for these
contests. Unions with a specially strong strategic situation in industry and a favored situation
in the Federation are not yet ready to forego their privileges for this form of direct democracy,
but the tendency is in this direction. (Since these lines were first written the Federation
has taken steps towards the adoption of this plan of direct election of its officials by national
referendum.)

Indeed, when the Western Miners' second proposal, the refusal to sign agreements for any fixed
period, is adopted, this simultaneous centralization and democratization of the Federation
may proceed apace. As long as the various unions are bound to the employers by an entirely
separate and independent agreement terminable at different dates, it is impossible to arrange
strikes in common, especially when the more fortunate unions adopt an entirely different plan
of organization and an entirely different policy from the rest. The Western Miners now propose
that all agreements be done away with, a practice they had followed long and successfully themselves--with
the single tacit exception of the employees of the Smelter Trust (Guggenheim's). This exception
they have now done away with. Their fundamental idea is that as long as the capitalist reserves
his right to close down his works whenever he believes his interests or those of capital require
it, every union should reserve its right to stop work at any moment when the interests of the
union or of labor require it. Temporary arrangements are entered into which are binding as
to all other matters except the cessation of work. That this cessation would not occur in any
well-organized union over trifles goes without saying--strikes are tremendously costly to labor.
The agreement binds in a way perfectly familiar to the business world in the call loan or the
tenancy at will.

President Moyer of the Western Federation (one of those Mr. Roosevelt called an "undesirable
citizen" at the time when he was on trial in Idaho, accused of being an accomplice in the murder
of Governor Steunenburg) explained that his union knew that agreements might bring certain
momentary advantages which it would otherwise lose, that it had often been in a position to
win higher wages through an agreement, and in three cases even to gain a seven-hour day. But
by such action, he declared the union would have surrendered its freedom. It would have been
tied hand and foot, whereas now it was free to fight whenever it wanted to. If working people
want to be united and effective, he concluded, they must have the fullest freedom of action.
This would always pay in the end.

In view of the great advance in the organization and fighting spirit of labor secured by this
new kind of industrial warfare, some revolutionary unionists even expect it to do more to bring
about Socialism than the Socialist parties themselves. Indeed, a few have gone so far as to
regard these parties as almost superfluous. Many of the new revolutionary unionists, though
Socialists by conviction, attach so little importance to political action that they have formed
no connection with the Socialist parties, and do not propose to do so. Others feel the necessity
of some political support, and contend that any kind of an exclusively labor union party, even
if it represents anti-revolutionary unions like most of those of the Federation of Labor, would
serve this purpose better than the Socialist Party, which belongs less exclusively to the unionists.

An American revolutionary unionist and Socialist, the late Louis Duchez, like many of his school,
not only placed his faith chiefly in the unskilled workers, either excluding the skilled manual
laborers and the brain workers, or relegating them to a secondary position, but wanted the
new organizations to rely almost entirely on their economic efforts and entirely to subordinate
political action. The hours of labor are to be reduced, child labor is to be abolished, and
everything is to be done that will tend to diminish competition between one workingman and
another, he argued, with the idea of securing early control of the labor market. Through labor's
restriction of output, production is to be cut down and the unemployed are to be absorbed.
Thus, he declared, "a partial expropriation of capital is taking place" and "this constructive
program is followed until the workers get all they produce."[259]

Here is an invaluable insight into the underlying standpoint of some of these anti-political
"syndicalists," to use a term that has come to us from France. Nothing could possibly be more
alien to the whole spirit of revolutionary Socialism than these conclusions. The very reason
for the existence of Socialism is that Socialists believe that the unions cannot control the
labor market in present society. The Socialists' chief hope, moreover, is that economic evolution
will make possible and almost inevitable the transformation of a capitalist into a Socialist
society; it is then to their interest not to retard the development of industry by the restriction
of output, but to advance it. Indeed, Mr. Duchez's philosophy is not that of Socialist labor
unionism, but of anarchist labor unionism, and there have been strong tendencies in many countries,
not only in France and Italy, but also in the United States, especially among the more conservative
unions, to be guided by such a policy. It is the essence of Mr. Gompers's program, as I have
shown, to claim that "a partial expropriation of capital" is taking place through the unions,
and that by this means, without any government action, and without any revolutionary general
strike the workers will gradually "get all they produce." According to the Socialist view,
such a gradual expropriation can only begin after a political and economic revolution, or when,
on its near approach, capitalists prefer to make vital concessions rather than to engage in
such a conflict.

The leading Socialist monthly in America, the International Socialist Review, which has indorsed
the new unionism, has even found it necessary recently to remind its readers that the Socialist
Party does after all play a certain rôle and a more or less important one, in the revolutionary
movement. "Representative revolutionary unionists, like Lagardelle of France and Tom Mann of
Australia," said the Review, "point out the immense value of a political party as an auxiliary
to the unions. A revolutionary union without the backing of a revolutionary party will be tied
up by injunctions. Its officers will be kidnapped. Its members, if they defy the courts, will
be corralled in bull pens or mowed down by Gatling guns.

"A revolutionary party, on the other hand, if it pins its hopes mainly to the passing of laws,
tends always to degenerate into a reform party. Its 'leaders' become hungry for office and
eager for votes, even if the votes must be secured by concessions to the middle class. In the
pursuit of such votes it wastes its propaganda on immediate demands."

The Review adds, however, that a non-political menace of revolution does ten times as much
for reforms as any political activity; which can only mean that in its estimation revolutionary
strikes, boycotts, demonstrations, etc., are of ten times higher present value than the ballot.

Mr. Tom Mann seems also to subordinate political to labor union action: "Experience in all
countries shows most conclusively that industrial organization, intelligently conducted, is
of much more moment than political action, for, entirely irrespective as to which school of
politicians is in power, capable and courageous industrial activity forces from the politicians
proportionate concessions.... Indeed, it is obvious that a growing proportion of the intelligent
pioneers of economic changes are expressing more and more dissatisfaction with Parliament and
all its works, and look forward to the time when Parliaments, as we know them, will be superseded
by the people managing their own affairs by means of the Initiative and the Referendum."[260]
The last sentence shows that Mr. Mann had somewhat modified his aversion to politics, for the
Initiative and Referendum is a political and not an economic device. His objection to politics
in the form of parliamentarism (that is, trusting everything to elected persons, or representatives)
as distinguished from direct democracy, would probably meet the views of the majority of Socialists
everywhere (except in Great Britain).

A later declaration of Mr. Mann after his return from Australia to England shows that he now
occupies the same ground as Debs and Haywood in America--favoring a revolutionary party as
well as revolutionary unions:--

     "The present-day degradation of so large a percentage of the
     workers is directly due to their economic enslavement; and it is
     economic freedom that is demanded.

     "Now Parliamentary action is at all times useful, in proportion as
     it makes for economic emancipation of the workers. But Socialists
     and Labour men in Parliament can only do effective work there in
     proportion to the intelligence and economic organization of the
     rank and file....

     "Certainly nothing very striking in the way of constructive work
     could reasonably be expected from the minorities of the Socialists
     and Labour men hitherto elected. But the most moderate and
     fair-minded are compelled to declare that, not in one country but
     in all, a proportion of those comrades who, prior to being
     returned, were unquestionably revolutionary, are no longer so after
     a few years in Parliament. They are revolutionary neither in their
     attitude towards existing society nor in respect of present-day
     institutions. Indeed, it is no exaggeration to say that many seem
     to have constituted themselves apologists for existing society,
     showing a degree of studied respect for bourgeois conditions, and a
     toleration of bourgeois methods, that destroys the probability of
     their doing any real work of a revolutionary character.

     "I shall not here attempt to juggle with the quibble of 'Revolution
     or Evolution,'--or to meet the contention of some of those under
     consideration that it is not Revolution that is wanted. 'You cannot
     change the world and yet not change the world.' Revolution is the
     means of, not the alternative to, Evolution. I simply state that a
     working-class movement that is not revolutionary in character, is
     not of the slightest use to the working class."[261]

If Mr. Mann later resigned from the British Social Democratic Party, this was in part due to
the special conditions in Great Britain, as he said at the time, and partly to his Australian
experience of the demoralizing effects of office seeking on the Labour Party there. Mann stands
with Hervé in the French Party and Debs and Haywood in the American. The reasons given for
his withdrawal from the British Party embody the universal complaint of revolutionary unionists
against what is everywhere a strong tendency of Socialist parties to become demoralized like
other political organizations. Mr. Mann, in his letter of resignation, said:--

     "After the most careful reflection I am driven to the belief that
     the real reason why the trade unionist movement of this country is
     in such a deplorable state of inefficiency is to be found in the
     fictitious importance which the workers have been encouraged to
     attach to parliamentary action.

     "I find nearly all the serious-minded young men in the Labour and
     Socialist movement have their minds centered upon obtaining some
     position in public life, such as local, municipal, or county
     councilorship, or filling some governmental office, or aspiring to
     become a member of Parliament.

     "I am driven to the belief that this is entirely wrong, and that
     economic liberty will never be realized by such means. So I declare
     in favor of Direct Industrial Organization, not as a means but as
     the means whereby the workers can ultimately overthrow the
     capitalist system and become the actual controllers of their own
     industrial and social destiny."

There is little disagreement among Socialists that "Direct Industrial Organization" is likely
to prove the most important means by which "the workers can ultimately overthrow the capitalist
system." This, the "industrial unionism" of Debs and Haywood and Mann, is to be sharply distinguished
from French "syndicalism" which undermines all Socialist political action and all revolutionary
economic action as well, by teaching that even to-day by direct industrial organization--without
a political program or political support, and without a revolution--"a partial expropriation
of capital is taking place."

The advocates of revolutionary labor unionism in America for the most part are not allowing
the new idea to draw away their energies from the Socialist Party; it merely serves to emphasize
their hostility to the present unaggressive policy of the Executive American Federation of
Labor and some of the unions that compose it.

Mr. Haywood (another of Mr. Roosevelt's "undesirable citizens") urges the working class to
"become so organized on the economic field that they can take and hold the industries in which
they are employed." This view might seem to obviate the need of a political party, but Mr.
Haywood does not regard it in that light. He says:--

     "There is justification for political action, and that is, to
     control the forces of the capitalists that they use against us; to
     be in a position to control the power of government so as to make
     the work of the army ineffective.... That is the reason that you
     want the power of government. That is the reason that you should
     fully understand the power of the ballot.

     "Now, there isn't any one, Socialist, S.L.P., Industrial Worker, or
     any other working man or woman, no matter what society you belong
     to, but what believes in the ballot. There are those--and I am one
     of them--who refuse to have the ballot interpreted for them. I know
     or think I know the power of it, and I know that the industrial
     organization, as I have stated in the beginning, is its broadest
     interpretation. I know, too, that when the workers are brought
     together in a great organization they are not going to cease to
     vote. That is when the workers will begin to vote, to vote for
     directors to operate the industries in which they are all
     employed."

In the recent pamphlet, "Industrial Socialism," Mr. Haywood and Mr. Frank Bonn develop the
new unionism at greater length. Their conclusions as to politics are directed, not against
the Socialist Party, but against its non-revolutionary elements:--

     "The Socialist Party stands not merely for the POLITICAL supremacy
     of labor. It stands for the INDUSTRIAL supremacy of labor. Its
     purpose is not to secure old age pensions and free meals for school
     children. Its mission is to help overthrow capitalism and establish
     Socialism.

     "The great purpose of the Socialist Party is to seize the powers of
     government and thus prevent them from being used by the capitalists
     against the workers. With Socialists in political offices the
     workers can strike and not be shot. They can picket shops and not
     be arrested and imprisoned.... To win the demands made on the
     industrial field it is absolutely necessary to control the
     government, as experience shows strikes to have been lost through
     the interference of courts and militia. The same functions of
     government, controlled by a class conscious working class, will be
     used to inspire confidence and compel the wheels of industry to
     move in spite of the devices and stumblingblocks of the
     capitalists....

     "Socialist government will concern itself entirely with the shop.
     Socialism can demand nothing of the individual outside the shop....
     It has no concern with the numberless social reforms which the
     capitalists are now preaching in order to save their miserable
     profit system.

     "Old age pensions are not Socialism. The workers had much better
     fight for higher wages and shorter hours. Old age pensions under
     the present government are either charity doled out to paupers, or
     bribes given to voters by politicians. Self-respecting workers
     despise such means of support. Free meals or cent meals for
     poverty-stricken school children are not Socialism. Industrial
     freedom will enable parents to give their children solid food at
     home. Free food to the workers cuts wages and kills the fighting
     spirit."

The American "syndicalists" are not opposed to political action, but they want to use it exclusively
for the purposes of industrial democracy.

While Messrs. Haywood and Bohn by no means take an anarchistic position, they show no enthusiasm
for the capitalist-collectivist proposals that present governments should take control of industry.
They are not hostile to all government, but they think that democracy applied directly to industry
would be all the government required:--

     "In the shop there must be government. In the school there must be
     government. In the conduct of the great public services there must
     be government. We have shown that Socialism will make government
     democratic throughout. The basis of this freedom will be the
     freedom of the individual to develop his powers. People will be
     educated in freedom. They will work in freedom. They will live in
     freedom....

     "Socialism will establish democracy in the shop. Democracy in the
     shop will free the working class. The working class, through
     securing freedom for itself, will liberate the race."

Even the American "syndicalists," however, attach more importance to economic than to political
action. Hitherto revolutionary Socialists have agreed that the only constructive work possible
under capitalism was that of education and organization. The "syndicalists" also agree that
nothing peculiarly socialistic can be done to-day by political action, but they are reformists
as to the immediate possibilities of economic action. Here they believe revolutionary principles
can be applied even under capitalism. Even the conservative and purely businesslike effort
to secure a little more wages by organized action, they believe, can be converted here and
now into a class struggle of working class vs. capitalists. What is needed is only organization
of all the unions and a revolutionary policy. With the possibilities of a revolutionary union
policy when capitalism has largely exhausted its program of political reforms and economic
betterment and when Socialism has become the political Opposition, I deal in following chapters.
But syndicalists, even in America, say revolutionary tactics can be applied now--Mr. Haywood,
for instance, feels that the only thing necessary for a successful revolutionary and Socialistic
general strike in France or America to-day, is sufficient economic organization.

Mr. Debs admits the need of revolutionary tactics as well as revolutionary principles and even
says: "We could better succeed with reactionary principles and revolutionary tactics than with
revolutionary principles and reactionary tactics." He admits also that Socialists and revolutionary
unionists are inspired with an entirely new attitude towards society and government and indorses
as entirely sound certain expressions from Haywood and Bohn's pamphlet which had been violently
attacked by reformist Socialists and conservative unionists. Mr. Debs agrees with the former
writers in their definition of the attitude of the Socialist revolutionist's attitude towards
property: "He retains absolutely no respect for the property 'rights' of the profit takers.
He will use any weapon which will win his fight. He knows that the present laws of property
are made by and for the capitalists. Therefore he does not hesitate to break them." But he
does not agree that this new spirit offers any positive contribution to Socialist tactics at
the present time. Just as Hervé has recently admitted that the superior political and economic
organization of the Germans were more important than all the "sabotage" (violence) and "direct
action" of the French though he still favors the latter policies, so the foremost American
revolutionary opposes "direct action" and "sabotage" altogether under present conditions. Both
deny that revolutionary economic action under capitalism is any more promising than revolutionary
political action. Even Hervé defends his more or less friendly attitude to "direct action"
wholly on the ground that it is good practice for revolution, not on Lagardelle's syndicalist
ground that it means the beginning of revolution itself (see below).

By much of their language Haywood and several industrial unionists of this country would seem
to class themselves rather with Lagardelle and Labriola (see below) than with Hervé, Debs,
and Mann. Haywood, for example, has said that no Socialist can be a law-abiding citizen. Haywood's
very effective and law-abiding leadership in strikes at Lawrence (1912) and elsewhere would
suggest that he meant that Socialists cannot be law-abiding by principle and under all circumstances.
But this statement as it was made, together with many others, justifies the above classification.
Debs, on the contrary, claims that the American workers are law-abiding and must remain so,
on the whole, until the time of the revolution approaches. "As a revolutionist," he writes,
"I can have no respect for capitalist property laws, nor the least scruple about violating
them," but Debs does not believe there can be any occasion to put this principle into effect
until the workers have been politically and economically organized and educated, and then only
if they are opposed by violence (see the International Socialist Review, February, 1912).

The French and Italian advocates of revolutionary unionism also assign to the party a very
secondary part, though they are by no means, like the anarchists, opposed to all political
action. They do not as a rule oppose the Socialist parties, but they protest against the view
that Socialist activities should be chiefly political. Their best-known spokesman in Italy,
Arturo Labriola, one of the most brilliant orators in the country, and a professor in the University
of Naples, writes:--

     "The Social Democracy will prove to have been the last capitalistic
     party to which the defense of capitalistic society will have been
     intrusted. The syndicalists [revolutionary unionists] ought to get
     that firmly into their heads and draw conclusions from it in their
     necessary relations with the official Socialist Party. The
     latter ought to resign itself to being no more than a simple party
     of the legal demands of the proletariat [i.e. the unions,] on the
     basis of existing society, and not an anti-capitalist party."[262]

This is strong language and brings up some large questions. Far from being displeased with
the moderate and non-revolutionary character of the Socialist Party, Labriola, himself a revolutionist,
is so indifferent to the party as a direct means to revolution, as to hope that it will drop
its revolutionary claims altogether and become a humble and modest but more useful tool of
the unions. He even admitted in conversation with the writer that, attaching no value to political
advance as such, he was not even anxious at this time that the illiterate South Italians should
be given a vote, since they would long remain under the tutelage of the Catholic Church.

One of the founders of the present French movement, its earliest and chief theorist, Pelloutier,
who has many followers among the present officials of the French Federation of Labor, went
even further, denying to the government, and therefore to all political parties, any vital
function whatever. To Pelloutier the State is built exclusively upon "superfluous and obnoxious
political interests." The unions are expected to work towards a Socialist society without much,
if any, political support. They are to use non-political means: "The general strike as a purely
economic means that excludes the coöperation of parliamentary Socialists and demands only labor
union activity would necessarily suit the labor union groups."[263]

The leading "syndicalist" writer to-day, Hubert Lagardelle, feels not only that a Socialist
Party is not likely to bring about a Socialist society, but that any steps that it might try
to take in this direction to-day would necessarily be along the wrong lines, since it would
establish reforms by law rather than as a natural upgrowth out of economic conditions and the
activities of labor unions, with the result that such reforms would necessarily go no farther
than "State Socialism."[264]

Lagardelle speaks of the "State Socialistic" reform tendency as synonymous with "modern democracy."
Because it supposes that there are "general problems common to all classes," says Lagardelle,
democracy refuses to take into account the real difference between men, which is that they
are divided into economic classes. Here we see the central principle of Socialism exaggerated
to an absurdity. Few Socialists, even the most revolutionary, would deny that there are some
problems "common to all classes." Indeed, the existence and importance of such problems is
the very reason why "State Socialism," of benefit to the masses, but still more to the interest
of the capitalists, is being so easily and rapidly introduced. Lagardelle would be right, from
the Socialist standpoint, if he demanded that it should oppose mere political democracy, or
"State Socialism" in proportion as these forces have succeeded in reorganizing the capitalist
State--or rather after they have been assimilated by it. But to obstruct their present work
is merely to stand against the normal and necessary course of economic and political evolution,
as recognized by the Socialists themselves, a similar mistake to that made by the Populists
and their successors, who think they can prevent normal economic evolution by dissolving the
new industrial combinations and returning to competition. Just as Socialists cannot oppose
the formation of trusts under normal circumstances, neither can they oppose the extension of
the modern State into the field of industry or democratic reform, even though the result is
temporarily to strengthen capitalism and to decrease the economic and political power of the
working people. One of the fundamental differences between the Socialist and other political
philosophies is that it recognizes ceaseless political evolution and acts accordingly. It teaches
that we shall probably pass on to social democracy through a period of monopoly rule, "State
Socialism," and political reforms that in themselves promise no relative advance, economic
or political, to the working class.

In a recent congress of the French Party, Jaurès protested against a statement of Lagardelle's
that Socialism was opposed to democracy. "Democracy," Lagardelle answered, "corresponds to
an historical movement which has come to an end; syndicalism is an anti-democratic movement
to the extent that it is post-democratic. Syndicalism comes after democracy; it perfects the
life which democracy was powerless to organize." It is difficult to understand why Lagardelle
persists in saying that a movement which thus supplements democracy, which does what democracy
was claiming to do, and which is expected to supersede it, should on this account be considered
as "anti-democratic." Socialism fights the "State Socialists" and opposes those whose democracy
is merely political, but it is attacking not their democracy or their "State Socialism," but
their capitalism.

"Political society," says Lagardelle, "being the organization of the coercive power of the
State, that is to say, of authority and the hierarchy, corresponds to an economic régime which
has authority and the hierarchy as its base."[265] This proposition (the truth of which all
Socialists would recognize in so far as it applies to political society in its present form)
seems sufficient to Lagardelle to justify his conclusion that we can no more expect Socialist
results through the State, than we could by association with capitalism. He does not agree
with the Socialist majority that, while capitalism embodies a ruling class whose services may
be dispensed with, the State is rather a machine or a system which corresponds not so much
to capitalism, as to the system and machinery of industry which capitalism controls.

Another and closely related idea of the syndicalists is that all political parties, as well
as governments, necessarily become the tools of their leaders, that they always become "machines,"
bureaucratically organized like governments. Lagardelle adopts Rousseau's view that the essence
of representative government (all existing governments that are not autocratic being representative)
is "the inactivity of the citizen" and urges that political parties, like society in general,
are divided between the governing and the governed. While there is much truth in this analysis,--this
being the situation which it is sought to correct both in government and within political parties
by such means as direct legislation and the recall,--Lagardelle does not seem to see that exactly
the same problem exists also in the labor unions. For among the most revolutionary as among
the most conservative of labor organizations the leaders tend to acquire the same relative
and irresponsible power as they do in political parties. The difficulty of making democracy
work inheres in all organizations. It must be met and overcome; it cannot be avoided.

Lagardelle's distrust of political democracy goes even further than a mere criticism of representative
government. He thinks the citizen to-day unable to judge general political questions at all,--so
that in his view even direct democracy would be useless. It is for this reason, he says, that
parties have it as an aim to act and to think in the citizen's place. Lagardelle's remedy is
not the establishment of direct democracy in government or in parties, but the organization
of the people to act together on "the concrete things of life"; that is, on questions of hours,
wages, and other conditions closely associated with their daily life and in his view adapted
to their understanding. He does not seem to see that such questions lead almost immediately,
not only to such larger issues as are already presented by the leading political parties, but
also to the still larger ones proposed by the Socialists.

Others of the syndicalists' criticisms, if taken literally, would undoubtedly bring them in
the end to the position occupied by non-Socialist and anti-Socialist labor unionists. Lagardelle
frankly places labor union action not only above political action, which Socialists, under
many circumstances, may justify, but above Socialism itself. "Even if the dreams of the future
of syndicalistic Socialism should never be realized,--none of us has the secret of history,--it
would suffice for me to give it my full support, to know that it is at the moment I am speaking
the essential agent of civilization in the world." Here is a labor union partisanship which
is certainly not equaled by the average conservative labor leader, who has the modesty to realize
that there are other powerful forces making for progress aside from the movement to which he
happens to belong.

The syndicalists, or those who act along similar lines in other countries, have brought new
life into the Socialist movement; their criticism has forced it to consider some neglected
questions, and has contributed new ideas which are winning acceptance. The basis of their view
is that the working people cannot win by mere numbers or intelligence, but must have a practical
power to organize along radically new lines and an ability to create new social institutions
independently of capitalist opposition or aid.

     Lagardelle writes: "There is nothing in syndicalism which can
     recall the dogmatism of orthodox Socialism. The latter has summed
     up its wisdom in certain abstract immovable formulas which it
     intends willy-nilly to impose on life.... Syndicalism, on the
     contrary, depends on the continually renewed and spontaneous
     creations of life itself, on the perpetual renewing of ideas, which
     cannot become fixed into dogmas as long as they are not detached
     from their trunk. We are not dealing with a body of intellectuals,
     with a Socialist clergy charged to think for the working class, but
     with the working class itself, which through its own experience is
     incessantly discovering new horizons, unseen perspectives,
     unsuspected methods,--in a word, new sources of rejuvenation."[266]

Here, at least, is a valuable warning to Socialism against what its most revolutionary and
enthusiastic adherents have always felt is its chief danger.

The fact that lends force to Lagardelle's argument is that the average workingman has a much
more important, necessary, and continuous function to fill as a member of the labor unions
than as a member of the Socialist parties. It still remains a problem of the first magnitude
to every Socialist party to give to its members an equally powerful daily interest in that
work. On the other hand, it must be said in all fairness that the lack of active participation
by the rank and file is very common in the labor unions also, a handful of men often governing
and directing, sometimes even at the most critical moments.

It is the boast of the syndicalists that in their plan of revolutionary unionism, practice
and theory become one, that actions become revolutionary as well as words--"Men are classed,"
says Lagardelle, "according to their acts and not according to their labels. The revolutionary
spirit comes down from heaven onto the earth, becomes flesh, manifests itself by institutions,
and identifies itself with life. The daily act takes on a revolutionary value, and social transformation,
if it comes some day, will only be the generalization of this act." It is true that Lagardelle's
"direct action" tends towards revolution, but does it tend towards Socialism? His answer is
that it does. But his answer itself indicates the tendency of syndicalism to drift back into
conservative unionism and the mere demand for somewhat more wages. Socialist organizations,
he says, "must necessarily be trained in actions of no great revolutionary moment, since these
are the only kind of actions now possible, and in agitation; that is, the conversion or the
wakening of the will of the working people to desire and to demand an entirely different life,
which their intelligence has shown them to be possible, and which they feel they are able to
obtain through their organizations."[267] (My italics.)

Not all members of the French "syndicats" (labor unions) are theoretical syndicalists of the
dogmatic kind, like Lagardelle. Yet even men like Guerard, recently head of the railway union,
and Niel of the printers, recently secretary of the Federation of Labor, both belonging to
the less radical faction, are in favor of the use of the general strike under several contingencies,
and stand for a union policy directed towards the ultimate abolition of employers. But this
does not mean that they believe the unions can succeed in either of these efforts if acting
alone, or even if assisted in Parliament by a party which represents only the unions, acts
as their tool, and therefore brings them no outside assistance. Such men, together with others
more radical, like André and the Guesdists in the Federation, realize that a larger and more
democratic movement is needed in connection with the unions before there is any possibility
of accomplishing the great social changes at which, as Socialists, they aim. (As evidence,
see the proceedings of any recent convention of the Confederation Generale de Travail.)

Lagardelle, however, is a member of the Socialist Party and was recently even a candidate for
the French Chamber of Deputies. Other prominent members of the Party as revolutionary as he
and as enthusiastic partisans of the Confederation de Travail (Federation of Labor) are stronger
in their allegiance to the Party. And there are signs that even in France syndicalism is losing
its anti-political tendency. Hervé, who demanded at the beginning of 1909 that the "directors
of the Socialist Party cure themselves of 'Parliamentary idiocy'" (his New Year's wish), expressed
at the beginning of 1910 the wish that "certain of the dignitaries of the Federation of Labor
should cure themselves of a syndicalist and laborite idiocy, a form of idiocy not less dangerous
or clownish than the other."

In fact, it may soon be necessary to distinguish a new school of political syndicalism, which
is well represented by Paul Louis in his "Syndicalism against the State" (Le Syndicalisme contre
l'État).

     "Syndicalism is at the bottom," says Louis, "only a powerful
     expression of that destructive and constructive effort which for
     years has been shaking the old political and social régime, and is
     undermining slowly the ancient system of property. It points
     necessarily to collectivism and communism. It represents Socialism
     in action, in daily and continuous action....

     "Now the abolition of the State ... is the object of modern
     Socialism. What distinguishes this modern Socialism from Utopian
     Socialism which culminated towards 1848, whose best-known
     publicists were Cabet, Pecqueur, Louis Blanc, Vidal, is precisely
     that it no longer attributes to the State the power to transform,
     the capacity to revolutionize, the rôle of magic regeneration,
     which the writers in this dangerous phase of enthusiasm assigned to
     it. For the Utopians all the machinery of a bureaucracy could be
     put at the service of all the classes, fraternally reconciled in
     view of the coming social regeneration. For contemporary Socialists
     since Karl Marx ... this bureaucratic machinery, whose function is
     to protect the existing system and to maintain an administrative,
     economic, financial, political, and military guardianship must
     finally be disintegrated. The new society can only be born at this
     price.

     "There still exist in all countries groups of men or isolated
     individuals who stand for collectivism, who claim to want the
     complete emancipation of all workers, but who nevertheless adhere
     to paternalism. These are called revisionists in Germany,
     reformists in France, Italy, and Switzerland.... They go back,
     without knowing it, to those theories of enlightened despotism
     which flourished at the end of the eighteenth century in the courts
     of Vienna, St. Petersburg, Madrid and Lisbon, the ridiculous
     inanity of which was sufficiently well demonstrated by events....

     "But these Utopians of the present moment, these champions of a
     limitless adaptation to circumstances, are destined to lose ground
     more and more, according as Syndicalism expresses better and better
     the independent action of the organized proletariat.

     "In its totality the Socialism of the world is as anti-governmental
     as Syndicalism, and in this is shown the identity of the two
     movements, for it is difficult to distinguish the field of action
     of the one from that of the other."[268]

We see here that the central idea of syndicalism, which is undoubtedly, as Louis says, a revolutionary
action against existing governments, is not on this account anti-political; the foundation
of this point of view is that labor union action is bound sooner or later to evolve into syndicalism,
which in its essence is an effort to put industry in the immediate control of the non-propertied
working classes, without regard to the attitude taken towards this movement by governments;--

     "Those who have long imagined that some kind of coördination would
     be brought about between old economic and social institutions and
     the union organizations which would then be tolerated, those who
     thought they could incorporate these industrial groups in the
     mechanism of production and political society, were guilty of the
     most stupefying of errors. They were ignorant both of the nature of
     the State and of the essence of unionism; they were attempting the
     squaring of the circle or perpetual motion; they had not analyzed
     the process of disintegration which humanity is undergoing, which,
     accelerated by the stream of industrialism, has given origin to
     hostile classes subordinated to one another, incapable of
     coexisting in a lasting equilibrium."[269]

We see here a complete agreement with the position of the revolutionary majority among the
Socialists. If syndicalism differs in any way from other tendencies in the Socialist movement,
it does so through a difference of emphasis rather than a difference of kind. It undoubtedly
exaggerates the possibilities of economic action, and underestimates those of political action.
Louis, for example, says that the working people are the subjects of capital, but the masters
of production, that they cannot live without suffering in the factory, but that society cannot
live without their labor. This, of course, is only true if stated in the most unqualified form.
Society is able to dispense with all labor for a short time, and with very many classes of
labor for long periods. Moreover, the forcing of labor at the point of the rifle is by no means
so impracticable during brief emergencies as is sometimes supposed.

Syndicalism may, perhaps, be most usefully viewed as a reaction against the tendency towards
"parliamentarism" or undue emphasis on political action, which has existed even among revolutionary
Socialists in Germany and elsewhere (see Part II, Chapter V). Among the "revisionist" Socialists
of that country a great friendliness to labor union action existed, in view of the comparative
conservatism of the unions. For this same reason the revolutionaries became rather cold, though
never hostile, towards this form of action, and concentrated their attention on politics. In
a word, syndicalism is only to be understood in the light of the criticisms of revolutionary
Socialism as presented by Kautsky, just as the standpoint of the latter can only be comprehended
after it is subjected to the syndicalist criticism--and doubtless both positions, however one-sided
they appear elsewhere, were fairly justified by the economic and political situations in France
and Germany respectively. "Only as a political party," says Kautsky, "can the working class
as a whole come to a firm and lasting union." He then proceeds to argue that purely economic
struggles are always limited either to a locality, a town, or a province, or else to a given
trade or industry--the directly opposite view to that of the syndicalists, whose one object
is also, undeniably, to bring about a unity of the working class, though they claim that this
can be accomplished only by economic action, while from their point of view it is political
action that always divides the working class by nation, section, and class.

"The pure and simple unionist," says Kautsky, "is conservative, even when he behaves in a radical
manner; on the other hand, every true and independent political party [Kautsky is speaking
here of workingmen's organizations exclusively] is always revolutionary by its very nature,
even when, according to its action, or even according to the consciousness of its members,
it is still moderate." This again is the exact opposite of the syndicalists' position. They
would say that a labor party unconnected with revolutionary economic action would necessarily
be conservative, no matter how revolutionary it seemed. The truth from the broader revolutionary
standpoint is doubtless that neither political nor economic action in isolation can long continue
to be revolutionary. Exclusively economic action soon leads to exclusive emphasis on material
and immediate gains, without reference to the relative position of the working class or its
future; exclusively political action leads inevitably to concentration on securing democratic
political machinery and reforms which by no means guarantee that labor is gaining on capital
in the race for power.

To Kautsky a labor party, it would seem, might be sufficient in itself, even if economic action
should, for any reason, become temporarily impossible:--

     "The formation and the activity of a special labor party which
     wants to win political power for the working class already
     presupposes in a part of the laboring class a highly developed
     class consciousness. But the activity of this labor party is the
     most powerful means to awaken and to further class consciousness in
     the masses of labor, also. It knows only objects and tasks which
     have to do with the whole proletariat; the trade narrowness, the
     jealousies of single and separate organizations, find no place in
     it."[270]

It is easy to see how an equally strong case might be made out for the educative, unifying,
and revolutionary effect of an aggressive labor union movement without any political features.
The truth would seem to be that any form of organization that honestly represents the working
class and is at the same time militant--and no other--advances Socialism. The objections to
action exclusively political hold also against action exclusively economic. Both trade union
action as such, which inevitably spends a large part of its energies in trying to improve economic
conditions in our present society by trade agreements and other combinations with the capitalists,
and political action as such, which is always drawn more or less into capitalistic efforts
to improve present society by political means is fundamentally conservative. What Socialism
requires is not a political party in the ordinary sense, but political organization and a political
program; not labor unions, as the term has been understood, but aggressive and effective economic
organization, available also for the most far-reaching economic and political ends.

It seems probable that the anti-political element in the new revolutionary unionism will soon
be outgrown. When this happens, it will meet the revolutionary majority of the Socialists on
an identical platform. For this revolutionary majority is steadily laying on more weight on
economic organization.

FOOTNOTES:

[253] The New York Call, Nov. 13, 1911.

[254] Edmond Kelly, "Twentieth-Century Socialism," p. 152.

[255] The Socialist Review (London), September, 1910.

[256] Winston Churchill, op. cit., p. 73.

[257] The Socialist Review (London), October, 1911.

[258] The profound opposition between the "State Socialism" of the Labour Party and the revolutionary
aims and methods of genuine Socialism and the new labor unionism appeared more clearly in the
coal strike of 1912 than it had in the railway strike of the previous year. As Mr. Lloyd George
very truthfully remarked in Parliament, no leaders of the Labour Party had committed themselves
to syndicalism, while syndicalism and socialism [i.e. the socialism of the Labour Party] were
mutually destructive. "We can console ourselves with the fact," said Mr. Lloyd George, "that
the best policeman for the syndicalists is the socialist [i.e. the Labourite]."

The conduct of many of the Labour Party leaders during this strike, as during the railway strike,
fully justified the confidence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer. Mr. MacDonald, for example,
spoke of syndicalism in much the same terms as those used by Mr. Lloyd George. He viewed it
as evil, to be obviated by greater friendliness and consideration on the part of employers
towards employees, a position fully endorsed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the other
Radicals of the British Cabinet.

The coal strike throughout was, indeed, almost a repetition of the railway strike. What I have
said of the one applies, with comparatively slight changes, to the other. Even the so-called
Minimum Wage Law is essentially identical with the methods adopted to determine the wages of
railway employees.

[259] The New York Call, April 17, 1910.

[260] The International Socialist Review, June, 1911.

[261] The Industrial Syndicalist (London), July and September, 1910.

[262] Le Mouvement Socialiste (Paris), 1909, article entitled, "Plechanoff contre les Syndicalistes."

[263] "Le Federation des Bourses de Travail de France," p. 67.

[264] Hubert Lagardelle, Le Socialisme Ouvrier (Paris), 1911.

[265] Le Mouvement Socialiste, 1909, article entitled, "Classe Sociale et Parti Politique."

[266] Hubert Lagardelle, "Syndicalisme et Socialisme" (Paris), p. 52.

[267] Hubert Lagardelle, "Syndicalisme et Socialisme" (Paris), p. 50.

[268] Paul Louis, "Le Syndicalisme contre l'État," pp. 4-7.

[269] Paul Louis, "Le Syndicalisme contre l'État," p. 244.

[270] Karl Kautsky, "Parlamentarismus und Demokratie," pp. 136 and 137.

CHAPTER VI

THE "GENERAL STRIKE"

Nearly all strikes are more or less justified in Socialist eyes. But those that involve neither
a large proportion of the working class nor any broad social or political question are held
to be of secondary importance. On the other hand, the "sympathetic" and "general" strikes,
which are on such a scale as to become great public issues, and are decided by the attitude
of public opinion and the government rather than by the employers and employees involved, are
viewed as a most essential part of the class struggle, especially when in their relation to
probable future contingencies.

The social significance of such sympathetic or general strikes is indeed recognized as clearly
by non-Socialists as by Socialists--even in America, since the great railroad strike of 1894.
The general strike of 1910 in Philadelphia, for instance, was seen both in Philadelphia and
in the country at large as being a part of a great social conflict. "The American nation has
been brought face to face for the first time with a strike," said the Philadelphia North American,
"not merely against the control of an industry or a group of allied industries, but a strike
of class against class, with the lines sharply drawn.... And it is this antagonism, this class
war, intangible and immeasurable, that constitutes the largest and most lamentable hurt to
the city. It is, moreover, felt beyond the city and throughout the entire nation." (My italics).
It goes without saying that all organs of non-Socialist opinion feel that such threatening
disturbances are lamentable, for they certainly may lead towards a revolutionary situation.
Both in this country and Great Britain the great railway strike of 1911 was almost universally
regarded in this light.

The availability of a general strike on a national scale as a means of assaulting capitalism
at some future crisis or as a present means of defending the ballot or the rights of labor
organizations or of preventing a foreign war, has for the past decade been the center of discussion
at many European Socialist congresses. The recent Prime Minister of France, Briand, was long
one of the leading partisans of this method of which he said only a few years before he became
Premier: "It has the seductive quality that it is after all the exercise of an incontestable
right. It is a revolution which commences with legality. In refusing the yoke of misery, the
workingman revolts in the fullness of his rights; illegality is committed by the capitalist
class when it becomes a provocator by trying to violate a right which it has itself consecrated."
That Briand meant what he said is indicated by the advice he gave to soldiers who might be
ordered to fire against the strikers in such a crisis. "If the order to fire should persist,"
said Briand, "if the tenacious officer should wish to constrain the will of the soldiers in
spite of all.... Oh, no doubt the guns might go off, but it might not be in the direction ordered"--and
the universal assumption of all public opinion at that time and since was that he was advising
the soldiers that under these circumstances they would be justified in shooting their officers.

The Federation of Labor of France has long adopted the idea of the general strike as appropriate
for certain future contingencies, as has also the French Socialist Party--"To realize the proposed
plan," the Federation declares, "it will be necessary first of all to put the locomotives in
a condition where they can do no harm, to stop the circulation of the railways, to encourage
the soldiers to ground their arms."

As thus conceived by Briand and the Federation, few will question the revolutionary character
of the proposed general strike. But in what circumstances do the Socialists expect to be able
to make use of this weapon? The Socialists of many countries have given the question careful
consideration in hundreds of writings and thousands of meetings, including national and international
congresses. Through the gradual evolution of the plans of action developed in all these conferences
and discussions, they have come to distinguish sharply between a really general strike, e.g.
a nation-wide railroad strike, when used for revolutionary purposes, and other species of widespread
strikes which have merely a tendency in a revolutionary direction, such as the Philadelphia
trouble I have mentioned, and they have decided from these deliberations, as well as considerable
actual experience, just what forms of general strike are most promising and under what contingencies
each form is most appropriate. Henriette Roland-Holst has summed up the whole discussion and
its conclusions in an able monograph (indorsed by Kautsky and others) from which I shall resume
a few of the leading points.[271] She concludes that railroad strikes for higher wages, unless
for some modest advance approved by a large part of the public, like the recent British strike
(which, in view of the rising cost of living, was literally to maintain "a living wage"), can
only lead to a ferocious repression. For a nation-wide railroad strike is paid for by the whole
nation, and its benefits must be nation-wide if it is to secure the support of that part of
the public without which it is foredoomed to failure. Otherwise, says Roland-Holst, "the greater
has been the success of the working people at the beginning, the greater has been the terror
of the middle classes," and as a consequence the measures of repression in the end have been
proportionately desperate. But this applies only when such strikes are for aggressive ends,
like that of 1910 in France, and promise nothing to any element of society except the employees
immediately involved.

If a nation-wide railroad strike or a prolonged coal strike is aggressive, it will inevitably
be lost unless it has a definite public object. And the only aggressive political aim that
would justify, in the minds of any but those immediately involved, all the suffering and disorder
a railroad strike of any duration would entail, would be a social revolution to effect the
capture of government and industry. The only other circumstances in which such a strike might
be employed with that support of a part at least of the public which is essential to its success
would be as a last resort, when some great social injustice was about to be perpetrated, like
a declaration of war, or an effort to destroy the Socialist Party or the labor unions. Jaurès
says rightly, that even then it would be "a last and desperate means less suited to save one's
self than to injure the enemy."

These conclusions as to the possibilities and limitations of the general strike are based on
a careful study of the military and other powers of the existing governments. "The power of
the modern State," says Roland-Holst, "is superior to that of the working class in all its
material bases either of a political or of an economic character. The fact of political strikes
can change this in no way. The working class can no more conquer economically, through starvation,
than it can through the use of powers of the same kind which the State employs, that is, through
force. In only one point is the working class altogether superior to the ruling class--in purpose....
Governmental and working class organizations are of entirely different dimensions. The first
is a coercive, the second a voluntary, organization. The power of the first rests primarily
on its means of physical force; that of the latter, which lacks these means, can break the
physical superiority of the State only by its moral superiority." It is almost needless to
add that by "moral superiority" Roland-Holst means something quite concrete, the willingness
of the working people to perform tasks and make sacrifices for the Socialist cause that they
would not make for the State even under compulsion. It is only through advantages of this kind,
which it is expected will greatly increase with the future growth of the movement, that Socialists
believe that, supported by an overwhelming majority of the people, a time may arrive when they
can make a successful use of the nation-wide general strike. It is hoped that the support of
the masses of the population will then make it impossible for governments to operate the railroads
by military means, as they have hitherto done in Russia, Hungary, France, and other countries.
It is thought by many that the general strike of 1905 in Russia, for example, might have attained
far greater and more lasting results if the peasants had been sufficiently aroused and intelligent
to destroy the bridges and tracks, and it is not doubted that a Socialist agricultural population
consisting largely of laborers (see Chapter II) would do this in such a crisis.

Here, then, are the two conditions under which it is thought by Roland-Holst and the majority
of Socialists that the general strike may some day prove the chief means of bringing about
a revolution: the active support of the majority of the people, and the superior organization
and methods and the revolutionary purpose of the working classes.

In the preparation of the working people to bring about a general strike when the proper time
arrives, lies a limitless field for immediate Socialist activity. Both Jaurès and Bebel feel
that it is even likely that the general strike will also have to be used on a somewhat smaller
scale even before the supreme crisis comes. Jaurès thinks that it will be needed to bring about
essential reforms or to prevent war, and Bebel believes that it will very likely have to be
used to defend existing political and economic rights of the working class; in other words,
to protect the Party and the unions from destruction. At the Congress at Jena in 1905 the conservative
trade union official, von Elm, together with a majority of the speakers, argued that it was
possible that an attempt would be made to take away from the German working people the right
of suffrage, the freedom of the press and assemblage and the right of organization. In such
a case he and others advocate a general strike, though he said he fully realized it would be
a bloody one. "We must reckon with this," he said. "As a matter of course, we wish to shed
no blood, but our enemies drive us into the situation.... The moment comes when you must be
ready to give up your blood and your property [here he was interrupted by stormy applause].
Prepare yourselves for this possibility. Our youths must be brought up so that among the soldiers
here and there will be a man who will think twice before he shoots at his father and mother
[as Kaiser Wilhelm publicly insists he must], and at the same time at freedom." The reception
of von Elm's speech showed that his words represented the feeling of the whole German movement.
Bebel spoke with the same decision, advocating the use of the general strike under the same
conditions as did von Elm, while at the next congress at Mannheim he declared that it would
also be justified, under certain circumstances, not only for protecting existing rights, but
for extending them, e.g. for the purpose of obtaining universal and equal suffrage in Prussia.
Bebel did not think that the party or the unions were strong enough at that moment to use the
general strike for other than defensive purposes, but he said that, if they were able to double
their strength,--and it now seems they will have accomplished this within a very few years,--then
the time would doubtless arrive when it would be worth while to risk the employment of this
rather desperate measure for aggressive purposes also.

While Socialism is thus traveling steadily in the direction of a revolutionary general strike,
capitalist governments are coming to regard every strike of the first importance as a sort
of rebellion. In discussing the Socialist possibilities of a national railroad strike, Roland-Holst,
representing the usual Socialist view, says that it makes very little difference whether the
roads are nationally or privately owned; in either case such a strike is likely to be considered
by capitalistic governments as something like rebellion.

But while this applies only to the employees of the most important services like railroads,
when privately operated, it applies practically to all government employees; there is an almost
universal tendency to regard strikes against the government as being mutiny--an evidence of
the profoundly capitalistic character of government ownership and "State Socialism" which propose
to multiply the number of such employees. Here, too, the probable governmental attitude towards
a future general strike is daily indicated.

President Nicholas Murray Butler, of Columbia University, has written that any strike of "servants
of the State, in any capacity--military, naval, or civil," should be considered both treason
and mutiny.

     "In my judgment loyalty and treason," he writes, "ought to mean
     the same thing in the civil service that they do in military and
     naval services. The door to get out is always open if one does not
     wish to serve the public on these terms. Indeed, I am not sure that
     as civilization progresses loyalty and treason in the civil
     services will not become more important and more vital than loyalty
     and treason in the military and naval services. The happiness and
     the prosperity of a community might be more easily wrecked by the
     paralysis of its postal and telegraph services, for example, than
     by a mutiny on shipboard.... President Roosevelt's attitude on all
     this was at times very sound, but he wabbled a good deal in dealing
     with specific cases. In the celebrated Miller Case at the
     Government Printing Office he laid down in his published letter
     what I conceive to be the sound doctrine in regard to this matter.
     It was then made plain to the printers that to leave their work
     under pretense of striking was to resign, in effect, the places
     which they held in the public service, and that if those places
     were vacated they would be filled in accordance with the provisions
     of the civil service act, and not by reappointment of the old
     employees after parley and compromise.... To me the situation which
     this problem presents is, beyond comparison, the most serious and
     the most far-reaching which the modern democracies have to face."
     Dr. Butler concludes that this question "will wreck every
     democratic government in the world unless it is faced sturdily and
     bravely now, and settled on righteous lines." (My italics.)[272]

Our Ex-President, however, has ceased apparently to "wabble." In Mr. Roosevelt's medium, the
Outlook, an editorial on the strike of the municipal street cleaners of New York City reads
in part as follows:--

     Men who are employed by the public cannot strike. They can, and
     sometimes they do, mutiny. When they should be treated not as
     strikers but as mutineers.

     This issue was presented by the refusal of the men to do what they
     were ordered to do. When soldiers do that in warfare they are
     given short shrift. Of course, in combating accumulating dirt and
     its potent ally, disease, an army of street cleaners is not face to
     face with any such acute public dangers as those confronting a
     military force; and therefore insubordination among street cleaners
     does not call for any such severity as that which is absolutely
     necessary in war times; but the principle in the one case is the
     same as that in the other--those who disrupt the forces of public
     defense range themselves on the side of the public enemy. They are
     not in any respect on the same basis as the employees of a private
     employer. They are wage earners only in the sense that soldiers
     are wage earners.[273]

When Senator La Follette indorsed the right of railway mail clerks to organize, President Taft
said (May 14, 1911):--

     "This presents a very serious question, and one which, if decided
     in favor of the right of government employees to strike and use the
     boycott, will be full of danger to the government and to the
     republic.

     "The government employees of France resorted to it and took the
     government by the throat. The executive was entirely dependent upon
     these employees for its continuance.

     "When those in executive authority refused to acquiesce in the
     demands, the government employees struck, and then with the
     helplessness of the government and the destruction of all authority
     and the choking of government activities it was seen that to allow
     government employees the use of such an instrument was to recognize
     revolution as a lawful means of securing an increase in
     compensation for one class, and that a privileged class, at the
     expense of all the public....

     "The government employees are a privileged class whose work is
     necessary to carry on the government and upon whose entry into the
     government service it is entirely reasonable to impose conditions
     that should not be and ought not to be imposed upon those who serve
     private employers."

Here the Socialists join issue squarely with the almost universally prevalent non-Socialist
opinion. They do not consider government employment a "privilege" nor any strike whatever as
"mutiny," "treason," or "rebellion." Socialists believe that the only possible means of maintaining
democracy at all in this age when government employees are beginning to increase in numbers
more rapidly than those of private industry, is that they should be allowed to maintain their
right to organize and to strike--no matter how great difficulties it may involve. To decide
the question as President Butler wishes, or as President Taft implies it should be decided,
Socialists believe, would mean to turn every government into a military organization. The time
is not far distant when in all the leading nations a very large part and in some cases a majority
of the population will be in government employment. If even the present limited rights of organization
are done away with, and the military laws of subordination are applied, Socialists ask, shall
we not have exactly that military and autocratic bureaucracy, that "State Socialism" which
Spencer so rightly feared? The fact that these perfectly legal and necessary strikes may some
day lead to revolution is capitalism's misfortune, which society will not permit it to cure
by turning the clock back to absolutism. The question of the organization of government employees,
one of the most important to-day, will, as President Butler says, be the crucial question of
the near future.

It is in France that the question has come to the first test, not because the French bureaucracy
is more numerous than that of Prussia and some other Continental countries, but because of
the powerful democratic and Socialist tendency that has grown up along with this bureaucracy
and is now directed against it. Especially interesting is the fact that Briand, who not long
ago advocated the Socialist general strike and certainly realized its danger to present government
as well as its possibilities for Socialism, has, as Premier, evolved measures of repression
against organizations of State employees more stringent than have been introduced in any country
making the slightest pretension to democratic or semi-democratic government.

The world first became aware of the importance of this issue at the time of the organization
and the strike of the French telegraphers and post office employees in the early part of 1909,
and again in the railway strike in 1910. As early as 1906 the organized postal employees had
been definitely refused the right to strike, and it became manifest that if they attempted
to use this weapon to correct the very serious grievances under which they suffered, it would
be looked upon as "a kind of treason against the State." At the end of 1908, however, after
having discussed the matter for many years, a congress of all the employees of the State was
held. More than twenty different associations participated and decided unanimously to claim
the full rights of other labor organizations. Finally, when these organizations appealed to
the General Federation of Labor to help them, there came the strike of 1909. Unfortunately
for the postmen, the French railway and miners' unions were at the moment still in relatively
conservative hands, and the majority of their members were as yet by no means anxious to aid
in the general strike movement. After a brilliant success in their first effort, a second strike
a few weeks later proved a total failure.

The government then began to make it clear that public employees were to be allowed no right
to strike, and Jaurès pointed out that it was trying to carry this new repressive legislation
by accompanying it by new pension laws and other concessions to the State employees,--a repetition
of the old policy of more bread and less power, which is likely to play a more and more important
rôle every year as we enter into the State capitalistic period.

The character of the organizations allowed for government employees, under the new laws, would
remind one of Prussia or Russia rather than France. While certain forms of association are
permitted, the right to strike is precluded, and the various associations of government employees
are forbidden either to form any kind of federation or to unite with other unions outside of
government employments. "Councils of discipline are created where the employees are represented,"
but "in the case of a collected or concerted cessation of work all disciplinary penalties may
be inflicted without the intervention of the councils of discipline; courts may order the dissolution
of any union at the request of the ministry," which means that at any moment a police war may
be instituted against these organizations, in the true Russian style.

The reply of the postmen's organization to this kind of legislation is, that the administration
of the post office is an industrial and commercial administration; that it is a vast enterprise
of general utility; that the notion of loyalty or treason is entirely misplaced in this field.
They have declared that the new legislation is wrong "because it perpetuates the bureaucratic
tradition; because with a contempt for all the necessities of modern life it discountenances
organization of labor; because it has constituted a repressive legal condition for wage earners;
and because it is an act of authority which has nothing in common with free contract."

Here we see the public employees, supported by the Socialists, insisting on industrial and
commercial considerations, on the rights of individuals and on free contract, as against the
capitalists and governing classes, who claim to defend these very principles from supposed
Socialist attacks, but abandon them the moment they threaten capitalist profits and capitalist
rule. This attitude of the French Socialist shows the very heart of the Socialist situation.
In fact, it is only as private capitalism becomes State capitalism, or "State Socialism," that
Socialists will be able to show what their position really is. It is only then that the coercive
aspect of capitalism, which is now partly latent and partly obscured by certain functions that
it has still to fill in the development of society, will become visible to all eyes.

The French railroad strike of October, 1910, brought the question of organizations of government
employees still more into international prominence. Until the recent British upheaval it was,
perhaps, the greatest and most menacing strike in modern history. It is true that its apparent
object was only a few just, and relatively insignificant economic concessions--which were granted
for the most part immediately after the struggle. But behind these, as every one realized,
lay the question of the right of government employees to organize and to strike and the determination
of the French Socialists and labor unionists to use the opportunity to take a step towards
the "general strike."

Never has the issue between capitalism and Socialism been more sharply defined than in Premier
Briand's impulsively frank declaration after the strike (though it was later retracted): "I
say emphatically, if the laws have not given the government the means of keeping the country
master of its railways and the national defense, it would not have hesitated to take recourse
to illegality."

This is almost the exact declaration of Ex-President Roosevelt in his Decoration Day speech
in 1911, when he said that really revolutionary men dreaded and hated him because they knew
that he wouldn't let the Constitution stand in the way of punishing them if they did wrong.

Milder but no less positive expressions of an intention to use illegal means to coerce labor,
if it does not act as present authorities dictate, were to be heard from responsible sources
both in England and America after the recent British railway strike. The non-Socialist press
then came almost unanimously to the conclusion that an attempt must be made to take away the
sole weapon by which labor is able to protect itself or advance its position as soon as "the
public" is damaged by its use--which amounts to reducing wage earners to the status of children,
soldiers, or other wards of the community. "If railroad and telegraph strikes are many and
violent," said Collier's Weekly, "they will encourage government ownership without unionization."[274]

The Outlook stopped short of government ownership, but announced a similar principle: "The
railways are public highways; they must be controlled by the nation for the public good; the
operation of the railways must not be stopped because of disputes; and, as a corollary to this
last law of necessity, the government must furnish an adequate and just method of settling
railway disputes."[275] Every step in government control is to be accompanied by a step in
the control of labor, and restriction of the power of labor unions. The right of employees
to protect themselves by leaving their work in a body is to be taken away completely, while
the right to discharge or punish is to remain intact in persons over whom the employees can
have little or no control.

Governments are evidently ready to proceed to illegality for the sake of self-preservation--even
from a perfectly legal attack, if it threatens to destroy them or to transfer the government
into the hands of the non-capitalist classes. Of course a capitalist government can pass "laws,"
e.g. martial law, under which anything it chooses to do against its opponents becomes "legal"
and anything effective its opponents do becomes illegal. In the present age of general enlightenment,
however, this method does not even deceive Russian peasants. But the French government is now
turning to this device. Briand explained away his sensational declaration above quoted, and
then proposed a law by which striking on a railway becomes a crime and almost a felony. This
met universal approval in the capitalistic press and universal denunciation in that of the
Socialists and labor unions. The Boston Herald, for example, said: "The Executive must be armed
with greater authority than he now possesses. No Premier must be forced to say, as M. Briand
did recently, that, with or without law, national supremacy will be preserved in case it is
challenged by allied workers for the State, as well as by other toilers." Here there is no
effort to disguise the fact that the new legal form is the exact equivalent of the illegal
force formerly proposed.

Now the peasants and the lower middle classes of France, as well as the working people (land
and opportunities being more and more difficult to obtain), are becoming extremely radical.
Though they do not send Socialist deputies to the Chamber, they send representatives who are
very suspicious of arbitrary, undemocratic, and centralized authority. Only 215 members of
the Chamber could be induced to approve of the government's conduct during the strike of 1910,
while more than 200 abstained from voting on this point, and 166 voted in the negative. The
proposed measures of repression were carried by a small majority, but it is not likely that
they can be enforced many years without bringing about another and far more revolutionary crisis.
Briand and his associates, Millerand and Viviani, were forced to resign, partly on account
of their conduct in this strike, and it is possible that after another election or two the
Chamber will no longer give its consent to this relegation of workingmen to the status of common
soldiers. Only six months after the strike, Briand's successor, Monis, with the consent of
the Chamber, was bringing governmental pressure to bear on the privately owned railways to
force them to take back dismissed strikers. In the next ministry, that of Caillaux, the Minister
of Labor, Augagneur, the former Socialist, pursued the same policy of pressing for the reinstatement
of a large part of the discharged employees of the private railroads while insisting that the
employees of government railroads could not be allowed to strike. And again, at the end of
1911, the government secured only 286 votes in favor of this policy, to 193 against it.[276]

France is by no means the only country where the question of strikes of government employees
has become all-important. When the railways were nationalized in Italy there was considerable
Socialist opposition on the ground that the employees were likely to lose a part of such rights
as they had had when in private employment, and it turned out just as was feared. The position
of the Italian Socialists on the subject is as interesting as that of the French. The Congress
at Florence in 1908 resolved that "considering the fact that a strike of municipalized or nationalized
services represents, not the struggle of the proletariat against a private capitalistic enterprise,
but the conflict of a class against the collectivity, whence the difficulty of its success,
the employees in public service ought to be advised not to proclaim a strike unless urged on
by the most compelling motives and when every other means have failed;" but "taking it into
consideration at the same time that in the present condition of society the working people
in public service have no other means to guarantee the defense of their rights, and that in
critical moments of history the suspension of public services is among the most efficacious
arms of which the proletariat can avail itself to disorganize the defense of the government,
any disposition to bring into legislation the principle of the abolition of the right to strike
is dangerous" and "any attempt in that direction" must be defeated.

The gulf between those who consider the collective refusal of the organizations of government
employees to work under conditions they do not accept, as being "treason" and "mutiny," and
those who feel that such an organization is the very basis of industrial democracy of the future
and the sole possible guarantee of liberty, is surely unbridgeable.

The clash between the classes on this question of livelihood and liberty is already momentous,
but its full significance can only be realized when the Socialist aim is recalled. As employees
of railroads, of governments, and of industries become Socialists, they will not only be ready
to strike to raise their wages, or to protect the unions and the Socialist Party, or to prevent
military reaction, but also--when they have the majority with them--to take possession of government.

An editorial in the New York Call (October 31, 1911) shows how most American Socialists expect
the general strike to work:--

     "The failure of one 'general' strike, or any attempt to carry out a
     general strike, does not bankrupt or destroy the working class, for
     the reason that it is that class which holds the future in its
     hands. Nor does such failure help capitalism--the decaying
     system--in any way. On the contrary, it helps disintegrate it, and
     the failure itself is merely the necessary prelude to a still
     stronger assault by the same method. The general strike seems to be
     like what is said of democracy, that the cure for democracy is
     still more democracy. In the same way the cure for the general
     strike is to make it still more 'general' in character. The less
     'general' it is, the less chance has it of success, and the more
     'general' it can be made, the more certain is it of success.

     "And that success may not, and very likely will not, take the form
     hoped for by those who advocate it as a means of immediate or even
     ultimate social revolution. But even this, if true, is no argument
     against its use. It will, however, bring the social revolution
     nearer in other ways.

     "We hardly, for instance, expect to see the capitalists, paralyzed
     by the most 'general' of general strikes surrender their property
     offhand to the victorious proletariat in despair of being able to
     operate it themselves. Much as we would like to see the working
     class march in and take possession of the abandoned factories and
     workshops in this manner, and commence operations under their
     collective ownership, the vision can only remain while other
     factors are disregarded. There is possibly much more flexibility
     and elasticity in the capitalist system than is usually imagined by
     Socialists. As William Morris tells old John Ball, the 'rascal
     hedge-priest,' 'Mastership hath many shifts' before it finally goes
     down and out.

     "If we were to venture an opinion, the course and procedure of the
     general strike, with special reference to the railroads and allied
     industries, will follow something in this order.

     "General strikes will succeed one another intermittently, each
     becoming more 'general,' the method finally establishing itself as
     a settled policy of the workers in enforcing their demands. Some
     may fail, but from time to time they will grow more 'general' and
     more powerful, and will wrest more concessions from the owners,
     until the point is reached where the railroad business will return
     practically no private profits to its owners. And when this point
     is reached, or the certainty of its being reached is plainly seen,
     then mastership will make its next shift. There will be two
     alternatives.

     "The first is literal, physical suppression, by the armed forces of
     the nation still under control of the capitalists, and greatly
     augmented for the purpose. This, however, for a multitude of
     reasons, is a most dangerous policy and much more 'impossible' than
     the general strike. Instead of postponing social revolution, it
     rather accelerates its approach.

     "The other alternative, and the one by all means most likely to be
     adopted, is government ownership of the railroads, with the
     capitalists, of course, as owners of the government. This will
     undoubtedly be ushered in as 'State Socialism.' Laws will be passed
     constituting the railroad workers as direct servants of the State,
     and forbidding the general strike or any other kind of strike.

     "The prohibition will not have the desired effect. If attempted to
     be enforced, it merely throws capitalist society back on the first
     dangerous alternative policy we have mentioned. But it will give
     capitalism a breathing spell, and a chance to 'spar for wind' for a
     while, which is the best it can expect. The general strike will
     still be utilized to assail the capitalist State and its property.

     "The final struggle will be a political one, for the capture of the
     State from the hands of the capitalists, and such capture will mean
     the transfer of capitalist State-owned property to collective
     property and the establishment of industrial democracy, or
     Socialism."

FOOTNOTES:

[271] The following quotations are taken from the brochure, "Der Generalstreik," by Henriette
Roland-Holst (Dresden, 1905).

[272] From a private letter published editorially in the New York Sun.

[273] The Outlook, Nov. 25, 1911.

[274] Collier's Weekly, Sept. 2, 1911.

[275] The Outlook, Aug. 26, 1911.

[276] Die Neue Zeit, Oct. 27, 1911.

CHAPTER VII

REVOLUTION IN DEFENSE OF CIVIL GOVERNMENT

"The workers do not yet understand," says Debs, "that they are engaged in a class struggle,
and must unite their class and get on the right side of that struggle economically, politically,
and in every other way--strike together, vote together, and, if necessary, fight together."[277]
Socialists are prepared to use force when governments resort to arbitrary violence--for example,
to martial "law." In the Socialist view no occasion whatever justifies the suspension of the
regular government the people has instituted--and even if such an occasion could arise there
is no authority to which they would consent to give arbitrary power. Military "government"
is not government, but organized violence.

Tolstoi's masterly language on this matter will scarcely be improved upon:--

     "The slavery of the working people is due to this, that there are
     governments. But if the slavery of the laborers is due to the
     government, the emancipation is naturally conditioned by the
     abolition of the existing governments and the establishment of new
     governments,--such as will make possible the liberation of the land
     from ownership, the abolition of taxes, and the transference of the
     capital and the factories into the power and control of the working
     people.

     "There are men who recognize this issue as possible, and who are
     preparing themselves for it.... So long as the soldiers are in the
     hands of the government, which lives on taxes and is connected with
     the owners of land and of capital, a revolution is impossible. And
     so long as the soldiers are in the hands of the government, the
     structure of life will be such as those who have the soldiers in
     their hands want it to be.

     "The governments, who are already in possession of a disciplined
     force, will never permit the formation of another disciplined
     force. All the attempts of the past century have shown how vain
     such attempts are. Nor is there a way out, as the Socialists
     believe, by means of forming a great economic force which would be
     able to fight successfully against the consolidated and ever more
     consolidating force of the capitalists. Never will the labor
     unions, who may be in possession of a few miserable millions, be
     able to fight against the economic power of the multimillionaires,
     who are always supported by the military force. Just as little is
     there a way out as is proposed by other Socialists, by getting
     possession of the majority of the Parliament. Such a majority in
     the Parliament will not attain anything, so long as the army is in
     the hands of the governments. The moment the decrees of the
     Parliament are opposed to the interests of the ruling classes, the
     government will close and disperse such a parliament, as has been
     so frequently done and as will be done so long as the army is in
     the hands of the government."

Tolstoi, in spite of his contrary impression, here reaches conclusions which are the same as
those of the Socialists; for they are well aware that armies are likely to be used to dissolve
Parliaments and labor unions.

     "The introduction of socialistic principles into the army will not
     accomplish anything," Tolstoi continues. "The hypnotism of the army
     is so artfully applied that the most free-thinking and rational
     person will, so long as he is in the army, always do what is
     demanded of him. Thus there is no way out by means of revolution or
     in Socialism."

Here Tolstoi is again mistaken, for at this point also Socialists agree with him completely.
The soldier, they agree, must be reached, and some think must even be led to act, before he
reaches the barracks--whether he is about to enter them for military training in times of peace
or for service in times of war.

     "If there is a way out," concludes Tolstoi, "it is the one which
     has not been used yet, and which alone incontestably destroys the
     whole consolidated, artful, and long-established governmental
     machine for the enslavement of the masses. This way out consists in
     refusing to enter into the army, before one is subjected to the
     stupefying and corrupting influence of discipline.

     "This way out is the only one which is possible and which at the
     same time is inevitably obligatory for every individual
     person."[278]

Socialists differ from the great Russian, not in their analysis of the situation, but in their
more practical remedy. They would organize the campaign against military service instead of
leaving it to the individual, and after they had converted a sufficient majority to their views
they would not hesitate to use any kind of force that seemed necessary to put an end to government
by force. But they would not proceed to such lengths until their political and economic modes
of action were forcefully prevented from further development. If civil government is suspended
to combat the great general strike towards which Socialists believe society is moving they
will undertake to restore it or to set up a new one to replace that which the authorities have
"legally" destroyed. I say legally because all capitalist governments have provided for this
contingency by giving their executives the right to suspend government when they please--on
the pretext that its existence is threatened by internal disorder. It has been generally and
publicly agreed among capitalist authorities that this power shall be used in the case of a
general strike--as the British government declared, at the time of the recent railway strike,
whether there is extensive popular violence or not.

I have shown that the Socialists contemplate the use of the general strike whenever, in vital
matters, governments refuse to bow to the clearly expressed will of the majority, and that
they recognize the difficulties to be overcome before such a measure can be used successfully.
Of course the overwhelming majority of the population will have to be against the government.
But the military aspect of the question may possibly make it necessary that the majority to
be secured will have to be even greater than was at first contemplated, and that an even more
intense struggle will have to be carried on. The Bismarcks of the world are already using armies
as strike breakers and training them especially for this purpose, while even the more democratic
and peaceful States, like England and France, are rapidly following in the same direction.
Of course, as Bismarck said, not all of a large army can be so used, but there is a strong
tendency in Russia and Germany, which may be imitated elsewhere, for the military leaders to
concentrate their efforts and attention on the picked and more or less professional part of
their armies, and it is this part that is being used for strike-breaking purposes.

No one has dealt more ably with this struggle between the working people and coercive government
than Karl Liebknecht, recently elected to the Reichstag from the Kaiser's own district of Potsdam,
who spent a year as a political prisoner in Germany for his "Militarismus und Anti-Militarismus."
Liebknecht opens his pamphlet by quoting a statement of Bismarck to Professor Dr. Otto Kamaell,
in October, 1892:--

     "In Rome water and fire were forbidden to him who put himself
     outside of the legal order. In the middle ages that was called to
     outlaw. It was necessary to treat the Social-Democracy in the same
     way, to take away its political rights and its right to vote. So
     far I have gone. The Social-Democratic question is a military
     question. The Social-Democracy is being handled now in an
     extraordinarily superficial way. The Social-Democracy is striving
     now--and with success--to win the noncommissioned officers. In
     Hamburg already a good part of the troops consist of
     Social-Democrats, since the people there have the right to enter
     exclusively into their own battalion. What now if these troops
     should refuse to shoot their fathers and brothers as the Kaiser has
     demanded? Shall we send the regiments of Hanover and Mecklenburg
     against Hamburg? Then we have something there like the Commune in
     Paris. The Kaiser was frightened. He said to me he wouldn't exactly
     care about being called a cardboard prince like his grandfather,
     nor at the very beginning of his reign to wade up to the knees in
     blood. Then I said to him, 'Your Majesty will have to go deeper if
     you give way now.'"

Here we have it from the lips of Bismarck that the Social-Democratic question was already a
military question in his time, and his view is supported by the present Kaiser. This is high
authority. Similar views and threats have been common among the statesmen of our time in nearly
every country.

As early as 1903 the government of Holland broke a large general strike by the use of the army
to operate the railroads, and the same thing was done in Hungary in the following year. Indeed,
these measures had such a great success that the Hungarian government went farther two years
later, and took away the right of organization from the agricultural laborers; while at the
same time it used the army as strike breakers in harvest time and made permanent arrangements
for doing this in a similar contingency in the future. In the matter of breaking railway strikes
by soldiers, Bulgaria and other countries are following Holland and Hungary. The latest and
most extraordinary example is undoubtedly the use of soldiers by the "Socialist" Briand to
break the recent railroad strike in democratic France.[279]

Even peaceful countries like Belgium and Switzerland, Great Britain, and the United States,
are developing and changing their military systems so rapidly as to make it almost certain
that they would take similar measures if occasion should arise.

The agitation for universal conscription in England may succeed before many years, and the
plans for reorganizing the militia in the United States will also make of it a force that can
be far more useful in breaking strikes than the present one, and more ready to be used in case
of a nation-wide strike crisis. Indeed, the Dick military law made every possible provision
for the use of the military in internal disturbances, up to the point of enlisting every citizen
and making a dictator of the President.

Similar tendencies exist on the Continent of Europe. Formerly the militia of Switzerland was
quite democratically organized, and each man kept his gun and ammunition at home, but the government
is gradually doing away with this system and modeling the army every year more closely on that
of the larger and less democratic European powers. In Belgium a similar movement can be seen
in the creation of a Citizens' Guard, entirely for use at home and especially against strikers.

Here, then, is a situation to which every Socialist is forced to give constant thought, no
matter how peace-loving and law-abiding he may be. What is there in modern systems of government
to prevent these large military forces already employed so successfully for the ominous function
of strike breaking, from being used for other reactionary and tyrannical purposes--for putting
an end to democratic government, when it is attempted to apply it to property and industry?
So everywhere Socialists and labor unions are giving special attention to agitation against
militarism. Years ago even the most conservative unions began forbidding their members to join
the militia, and the practice has become general, while the Boy Scout movement is everywhere
denounced and repudiated. Not only is every effort being made by the Socialists, in connection
with other democratic elements, to cut off the financial supplies for the army and navy, but
they also sought to inspire all the youth, and particularly the children of the workers, with
a spirit of revolt against armies, war, and aggressive patriotism, as well as the spirit of
servile obedience, the ignorance, and the brutality that invariably accompany them.[280]

For a number of years the fight against militarism, and incidentally against possible wars,
has occupied the chief attention of international Socialist congresses. While the Stuttgart
Congress (1907) did not accept the proposal of the French delegates that in case of war an
international strike and insurrection should be declared, the closing part of the resolution
adopted was definitely intended to suggest such action by rehearsing with approval the various
cases where the working people had already made steps in that direction, and by advising still
more revolutionary action in the future, as indicated in the words italicized.

     "The International," it said, "is unable to prescribe one set mode
     of action to the working classes; this must of necessity be
     different in different lands, varying with time and place. But it
     is clearly its duty to encourage the working classes everywhere in
     their opposition to militarism. As a matter of fact, since the last
     International Congress, the working classes have adopted various
     ways of fighting militarism, by refusing grants for military and
     naval armaments, and by striving to organize armies on democratic
     lines. They have been successful in preventing outbreaks of war, or
     in putting an end to existing war, or the rumor of war. We may
     mention the agreement entered into between the English and French
     trade-unions after the Fashoda incident, for the purpose of
     maintaining peace and for reëstablishing friendly relations between
     England and France; the policy of the Social-Democratic parties in
     the French and German Parliaments during the Morocco crisis, and
     the peaceful declarations which the Socialists in both countries
     sent each other; the common action of the Austrian and Italian
     Socialists, gathered at Trieste, with a view to avoiding a conflict
     between the two powers; the great efforts made by the Socialists of
     Sweden to prevent an attack on Norway; and lastly, the heroic
     sacrifices made by the Socialist workers and peasants of Russia and
     Poland in the struggle against the war demon let loose by the Czar,
     in their efforts to put an end to their ravages, and at the same
     time to utilize the crisis for the liberation of the country and
     its workers.

     "All efforts bear testimony to the growing power of the proletariat
     and to its absolute determination to do all it can in order to
     obtain peace. The action of the working classes in this direction
     will be even more successful when public opinion is influenced to a
     greater degree than at present, and when the workingmen's parties
     in different lands are directed and instructed by the
     International." And finally it was decided to try to take
     advantage of the profound disturbances caused by every war to
     hasten the abolition of capitalist rule.

The International Congress of 1910 referred back to the Socialist parties of the various countries
for further consideration a resolution proposed by the French and English delegates which declared:
"Among the means to be used in order to prevent and hinder war, the Congress considers as particularly
efficacious the general strike, especially in the industries that supply war with its implements
(arms and ammunition, transport, etc.), as well as propaganda and popular action in their active
forms."

This resolution is now under discussion. In referring it to the national parties, the International
Socialist Bureau reminded them that the practical measure the authors of the amendment had
principally in view was "the strike of workingmen who were employed in delivering war material."
The Germans opposed the resolution on the ground that a strike of this kind, guarded against
by the government, would have to become general, and that during the martial law of war times
it would necessarily mean tremendous violence. They contended that a more effective means of
preventing war, until the Socialists are stronger, is to vote down all taxes and appropriations
for armies and navies. And they accused the British Labourites who supported this resolution
of having failed to vote against war supplies, while the Germans and their supporters had.
This accusation was true, as against the British Labourites, but did not apply against the
French and other Socialists who were for the resolution.

We can obtain a key to this situation only by examining the varying motives of reformists and
revolutionaries. The French reformists, followers of Jaurès, are so anxious for peace, that,
notwithstanding the fact that many capitalists, probably a majority, now also favor it, they
are ready to have the working people make the most terrible sacrifices for this semi-capitalistic
purpose. (See Part II, Chapter V.) The Germans realize that the capitalists themselves have
more and more reasons for avoiding wars, and, being satisfied with their present political
prospects, do not propose to risk them--or their necks--for any such object. The French revolutionaries,
on the other hand, favor extreme measures, not to preserve a capitalistic peace, but to develop
the general strike, to paralyze armies, and encourage their demoralization and dissolution.
They want to parallel all plans for mobilization by plans for insurrection, and to force armies
to disclose their true purpose, which they believe is not war at all, but the arbitrary and
violent suppression of popular movements.

Whether capitalism or Socialism puts an end to war, Socialists generally are agreed their success
may ultimately depend on their ability to find some way to put a check to militarism. The chief
means by which this is likely to be accomplished, they believe, is by the spread of Socialism
and the education of youth and even of children in the principles of international working-class
solidarity, always to put the humanity as a whole above one's country, always to despise and
revolt against all kinds of government by violence. Karl Liebknecht remarks that "it is already
recognized that every Social-Democrat educates his children to be Social-Democrats." But he
says that this is not sufficient. Social-Democratic parents do their best, but the Socialist
public must aid them to do better. In other words, the greatest hope for Socialism, in its
campaign against militarism as in all else it undertakes, lies in education.

The Socialist movement, even if it becomes some day capable of forcing concessions from the
capitalists through their fear of a social overturn, depends first, last, and always upon its
ability to teach and to train and to organize the masses of the people to solve their own problems
without governmental or capitalistic aid, and to understand that, in order to solve them successfully,
they must be able to take broad and far-sighted views of all the political and economic problems
of the time.

Especially Socialists undertake to enlighten the masses on the part played by war in history
and in recent times--not because wars are necessarily impending, but because the war talk is
an excuse for armies that really serve another purpose. For Socialists believe that the rule
of society by economic classes, and rule by war or brute force, in the Socialist view, are
one and the same thing. No Socialist has expressed this view more clearly or forcefully than
Mr. George R. Kirkpatrick, in his recent book, "War--What For?" Addressed to the heart as well
as to the head, and based upon all the most important of the previous attacks on militarism
war, whether Socialist or not, it may be doubted whether any non-Socialist could have presented
as powerful an argument. Mr. Kirkpatrick gives the following interesting outline of the typical
Socialist view of the development of primitive warfare into modern militarism and of slavery
into the present industrial system (here abbreviated):--

     "For a long time in these intertribal wars it was the practice to
     take no prisoners (except the younger women), but to kill, kill,
     kill, because the conquerors had no use for the captive men. When,
     however, society had developed industrially to a stage enabling the
     victors to make use of live men as work animals, that new
     industrial condition produced a new idea--one of the greatest and
     most revolutionary ideas that ever flashed into the human brain;
     and that idea was simply this: A live man is worth more than a dead
     one, if you can make use of him as a work animal. When
     industrially it became practicable for the conquerors to make use
     of live men captured in war, it rapidly became the custom to take
     prisoners, save them alive, beat them into submission--tame
     them--and thus have them for work animals, human work animals.

     "Here the human ox, yoked to the burdens of the world, started
     through the centuries, centuries wet with tears and red with blood
     and fire.

     "Thus originated a class of workers, the working class.

     "Thus also originated the ruling class. Thus originated the
     'leading citizens.'

     "Thus originally, in war, the workers fell into the bottomless gulf
     of misery. It was thus that war opened wide the devouring jaws of
     hell for the workers.

     "Thus was human society long ago divided into industrial
     classes--into two industrial classes.

     "Of course the interests of these two classes were in fundamental
     conflict, and thus originated the class struggle.

     "Of course the ruling class were in complete possession and control
     of all the powers of government--and of course they had sense
     enough to use the powers of government to defend their own class
     interests.

     "Of course the ruling class made all the laws and controlled all
     institutions in the interests of the ruling class--naturally."[281]

With all other international and revolutionary Socialists, Mr. Kirkpatrick believes that when
the masses are educated to see the truth of this view and have learned the true nature of modern
industry, class government, and armies, they will put an end to them. He concludes:--

     "The working class men inside and outside the army are
     confused.

     "They do not understand.

     "But they will understand.

     "AND WHEN THEY DO UNDERSTAND, their class loyalty and class pride
     will astonish the world. They will stand erect in their vast class
     strength and defend--THEMSELVES. They will cease to coax and tease;
     they will make demands--unitedly. They will desert the armory;
     they will spike every cannon on earth; they will scorn the
     commander; they will never club nor bayonet another striker; and
     in the legislatures of the world they will shear the fatted
     parasites from the political and industrial body of society."[282]

Here we have both the Socialist point of view and a glimpse of the passionate feeling that
accompanies it. "War--What For?" has been circulated by scores of thousands among the working
people and in the army and navy.

In countries like America and England, where there is no compulsory service, the practical
objective of such agitation is to prevent enlistment. In France, Belgium, and Italy, where
there is compulsory service, the Socialists for years have been preaching openly desertion
and insubordination.

Complaint against this anti-military propaganda is general in United States army and navy circles.
Recently a general in Southern California was said by the press to have reported to Washington
that the distribution of one circular had dissuaded many men from joining the army. The circular,
which was published, was attributed, whether rightly or not we do not know, to Jack London.
It ran in part:--

     "Young men, the lowest aim in your life is to be a soldier. The
     good soldier never tries to distinguish right from wrong. He never
     thinks; he never reasons; he only obeys. If he is ordered to fire
     on his fellow citizens, on his friends, on his neighbors, on his
     relatives, he obeys without hesitation. If he is ordered to fire
     down a crowded street when the poor are clamoring for bread, he
     obeys, and sees the gray hair of age stained with blood and the
     life tide gushing from the breast of women, feeling neither remorse
     nor sympathy. If he is ordered off as one of a firing squad to
     execute a hero or benefactor, he fires without hesitation, though
     he knows that the bullet will pierce the noblest heart that ever
     beat in a human breast.

     "A good soldier is a blind, heartless, soulless, murderous machine.
     He is not a man. He is not even a brute, for brutes only kill in
     self-defense. All that is human in him, all that is divine in him,
     all that constitutes the man, has been sworn away when he took the
     enlistment roll. His mind, conscience, aye, his very soul, is in
     the keeping of his officer."

This language will appeal to many as extremely violent, yet it is no stronger than that of
Tolstoi, while Bernard Shaw used almost identical expressions in his Preface to "John Bull's
Other Island," without anybody suggesting that they were treasonable.

     "The soldier," said Shaw, "is an anachronism of which we must get
     rid. Among people who are proof against the suggestions of romantic
     fiction there can no longer be any question of the fact that
     military service produces moral imbecility, ferocity, and
     cowardice.... For permanent work the soldier is worse than useless;
     such efficiency as he has is the result of dehumanization and
     disablement. His whole training tends to make him a weakling. He
     has the easiest of lives; he has no freedom and no responsibility.
     He is politically and socially a child, with rations instead of
     rights, treated like a child, punished like a child, dressed
     prettily and washed and combed like a child, excused for outbreaks
     like a child, forbidden to marry like a child, and called Tommy
     like a child. He has no real work to keep him from going mad except
     housemaid's work."

Mr. Shaw's words are identical with those that are preached by Socialists every day, especially
on the Continent.

     "No soldier is asked to think for himself," he says, "to judge for
     himself, to consult his own honor and manhood, to dread any
     consequence except the consequence of punishment to his own person.
     The rules are plain and simple; the ceremonies of respect and
     submission are as easy and mechanical as a prayer wheel, the orders
     are always to be obeyed thoughtlessly, however inept or
     dishonorable they may be.... No doubt this weakness is just what
     the military system aims at, its ideal soldier being, not a
     complete man, but a docile unit or cannon fodder which can be
     trusted to respond promptly and certainly to the external stimulus
     of a shouted order, and is intimidated to the pitch of being afraid
     to run away from a battle."

Nor is Mr. Shaw less sparing to the officer, and he represents in this case also the most unanimous
Socialist view:--

     "If he [the officer] calls his men dogs," says Shaw, "and perverts
     a musketry drill order to make them kneel to him as an act of
     personal humiliation, and thereby provokes a mutiny among men not
     yet thoroughly broken in to the abjectness of the military
     condition, he is not, as might be expected, shot, but, at the
     worst, reprimanded, whilst the leader of the mutiny, instead of
     getting the Victoria Cross and a public testimonial, is condemned
     to five years' penal servitude by Lynch Law (technically called
     martial law) administered by a trade union of officers."

Like all Socialists, Mr. Shaw recognizes that the evils of militarism rest even more heavily
on subject peoples than on the soldiers, citizens, or taxpayers of the dominating races. He
says of the officer he has been describing, who is humane and intelligent in civil life, that
in his military capacity he will frantically declare that "he dare not walk about in a foreign
country unless every crime of violence against an Englishman in uniform is punished by the
bombardment and destruction of a whole village, or the wholesale flogging and execution of
every native in the neighborhood; and also that unless he and his fellow officers have power,
without the intervention of a jury, to punish the slightest self-assertion or hesitation to
obey orders, however grossly insulting or disastrous those orders may be, with sentences which
are reserved in civil life for the worst crimes, he cannot secure the obedience and respect
of his men, and the country would accordingly lose all of its colonies and dependencies, and
be helplessly conquered in the German invasion which he confidently expects to occur in the
course of a fortnight or so."

     "That is to say," Mr. Shaw continues, "in so far as he is an
     ordinary gentleman he behaves sensibly and courageously; and in so
     far as he is a military man he gives way without shame to the
     grossest folly, cruelty, and poltroonery. If any other profession
     in the world had been stained by those vices and by false witness,
     forgery, swindling, torture, compulsion of men's families to attend
     their executions, digging up and mutilation of dead enemies, all of
     which is only added to the devastation proper to its own business,
     as the military profession has been within recent memory in
     England, France, and the United States of America (to mention no
     other countries), it would be very difficult to induce men of
     capacity and character to enter it. And in England, it is, in fact,
     largely dependent for its recruits on the refuse of industrial
     life, and for its officers on the aristocratic and plutocratic
     refuse of political and diplomatic life, who join the army and pay
     for their positions in the more or less fashionable clubs which the
     regimental messes provide them with--clubs, which, by the way,
     occasionally figure in ragging scandals as circles of extremely
     coarse moral character."[283]

It is not surprising that those who view armies in this light preach desertion and insubordination.
A recent cable dispatch sums up some of the results of the activity in this direction of the
French Federation of Labor with its million members, and of the Socialist Party with its still
larger following:--

     "Last year there were 13,500 desertions and 53,000 who refused to
     answer their call to military service. Loss to France in 1910, two
     army corps. These figures are given by La France Militaire, a
     soldiers' newspaper. In a fund called 'le sou du soldat et des
     insoumis,' the idea was to develop antimilitarism and
     antipatriotism. Five per cent, on the subscriptions of the
     workmen, belonging to the labor unions, was ordered to be set apart
     for this fund. The conscripts before departing were requested to
     leave the name of their regiment and their number so that sums of
     money might be sent to them for antimilitary propaganda in the
     barracks. For eight years that sort of thing has been going on, but
     things never reached to the extent they do now.

     "'The comrades of the workshop count on them to spread among those
     around ideas of revolt and rebellion,' is an extract from a letter
     read by M. Georges Berry in Parliament, and he added that he had a
     score of such letters emanating from the unions. In M. Jaurès's
     organ, L Humanité, there appeared an article on December 22,
     1910, inviting all the conscripts of the Labor Federation to send
     in their names so that financial aid might be sent to help them in
     organizing 'insubordination and desertion.'"

When the Caillaux Ministry came into power in 1911, a large number of the most prominent leaders
of the Federation of Labor were arrested for participation in this agitation. But for every
arrest many other unionists signed declarations favoring identical principles, and as the whole
Federation is wedded to this propaganda, it is more than doubtful if the whole million can
be arrested and the propaganda done away with.

This agitation is not directed primarily against possible war, or even exclusively against
compulsory military service. Just as the preparations for an insurrectionary general strike
in case of war tend to break down the power and prestige of the army, even if war is never
declared, so the teaching of insubordination and desertion have the same effect, even if the
compulsory armies are replaced by a compulsory militia, having only a few weeks of drill every
year, as in Australia, or by a voluntary militia, as in this country. The Socialist world accepts
the word of the American Socialists that a militia, if less burdensome, and less obnoxious
in many ways than a standing army, may be just as thoroughly reactionary, and quite as hostile
to the working class. The French Socialists and unionists encourage all general and organized
movements among common soldiers. And their ideal in this regard is reached when a whole body
of soldiers, for any good cause, revolts--especially at a time of popular demonstrations. During
the wine troubles in the south of France, a whole regiment refused to march--and for years
afterwards was toasted at Socialist gatherings.

"Military strikes" have also been frequent in Russia as well as in France--and have received
the unanimous approval of the Socialists of all countries. No matter how small the causes,
Socialists usually justify them, because they consider military discipline in itself wholly
an evil--and the worst tyranny of capitalist government. They promote military revolts in favor
of great popular causes for a double reason, and they also have a double motive for supporting
purely military revolts against militarism. For if Socialists are engaged in a class war, which
practically all of them believe may, and many believe must, lead to revolution, it is as necessary
to disarm the opposing classes as it is to abolish military discipline because of its inherent
evil. It is this fact that explains the importance of all Socialist efforts against imperialism,
colonialism, nationalism, patriotism, war and armies--and not the idea, common among Socialists,
that Socialism alone can be relied on to establish permanent international peace.

Moreover, the most successful attacks on existing governments in their coercive and arbitrary
aspects, as the Stuttgart resolution suggests (see above), have been when there were threats
of an unpopular war. The Socialist attack is then not only leveled against war, but also against
armies. A good example is the sending of a delegation of workingmen to Berlin by the French
federation at the invitation of that of Germany at the time of the Morocco affair (July, 1911).
There the Secretary of the associated labor councils of France, Yvetot, made a speech, the
importance of which was fully appreciated by the German government, which ordered him to be
immediately expelled. His remarks were also appreciated by his German Socialist audience which
responded to them by stormy applause lasting several minutes. The sentiments so widely appreciated
were contained in the following remarks addressed to the French and German governments:--

     "Just try once, you blockheads, to stir up one people against the
     other, to arm one people against the other, you will see if the
     peoples won't make an entirely different use of the weapons you put
     into their hands. Wait and see if the people don't go to war
     against an entirely different enemy than you expect."

The significance of this declaration was not that it declared war against war, but that, under
a certain highly probable contingency of the immediate future, it prepared the minds of the
people for the forceful overthrow of capitalist governments.

To the preparations of capitalist governments to revert to military rule in the case of a successful
nation-wide general strike, the Socialists reply at present by plans for weakening and disintegrating
armies. And they do not hesitate to say that they will use more active measures if capitalist
governments persist in what seems to be their present determination to resort to some form
of military despotism when the Socialists have won over a majority of the population to their
views.

FOOTNOTES:

[277] Eugene V. Debs, "Life and Writings," p. 456.

[278] Tolstoi's Essay entitled, "Where is the Way Out?"--October, 1900.

[279] Dr. Karl Liebknecht, "Militarismus und Anti-Militarismus" (brochure).

[281] George R. Kirkpatrick, "War--What For?" pp. 318-325.

[282] George R. Kirkpatrick, "War--What For?" (Preface).

[283] Bernard Shaw, "John Bull's Other Island," pp. xxxix-xliv.

CHAPTER VIII

POLITICAL AND SOCIAL REVOLUTION

"The legal constitution of every period," says Rosa Luxemburg, "is solely a product of revolution.
While revolution is the political act of creation of class history, legislation is the continued
political growth of society. The work of legal reform has in itself no independent driving
force outside of the revolution; it moves during each period of history only along that line
and for that period of time for which the impetus given to it during the last revolution continues,
or, to speak concretely, it moves only in the frame of that form of society which was brought
into the world through the last overturn.... Therefore, the person who speaks for the method
of legal reform instead of the conquest of political power and the overthrow of [present day]
society is not as a matter of fact seeking, in a quieter, safer, and slower way, the same goal,
but a different goal altogether; namely, instead of bringing about a new social order, merely
the accomplishing of unessential changes in the old one."[284]

It is not that Rosa Luxemburg or any other prominent Socialist underestimates the importance
to the Socialist movement of universal suffrage, and of the utilization of our more or less
democratic governments for the purpose of reform. She realizes that such democracy as we have
to-day is useful to-day, and that in a future crisis it may serve as a lever for overturning
the present social order. "Democracy is indispensable," she says, "not because it makes the
conquest of political power by the working class superfluous, but, on the contrary, because
it makes this seizure of power not only necessary, but the only remaining alternative."

From Kautsky and Bebel, who have always been known as strong believers in the possibilities
of political action, to the somewhat skeptical revolutionary Socialists of France, the ballot
has thus far remained the weapon of first practical importance, even for revolutionary purposes.
Bebel expects some day a great crisis which will go far beyond the power of any merely political
means to solve. Kautsky looks forward to more than one great conflict, in which other means
will have to be employed, as does also his Socialist critic and opponent, Jaurès. But for the
present all these men are occupying themselves with politics.

Even those Socialists who are most skeptical of the revolutionary possibilities of political
action by no means turn their back upon it. The French advocate of economic action and revolutionary
labor unionism, Lagardelle, who recently surprised some of his French comrades, as I have already
pointed out, by running as a candidate for the French Chamber, claimed that he did this in
entire consistency with his principles. And even the arch-revolutionary, Gustave Hervé, has
declared that in spite of all the faults and limitations of political action, revolutionary
Socialists must cling to the Socialist Party. Hervé had looked with a favorable eye on the
formation of a revolutionary organization which was to consist only in part of Socialists and
in part of revolutionary labor unionists, but he declared at the last moment that such an organization
ought to be only a group within the Socialist Party. A bitter critic of Jaurès and also of
the orthodox "center" of the party on the ground that their methods are too timid to achieve
anything for Socialism in view of the ruthless aggressions of the capitalists, Hervé nevertheless
said that it was only very exceptional circumstances that could justify revolutionary Socialists
acting against the party organization, even though it seemed to be doing so little effective
fighting against the capitalist enemy.

There could be no stronger evidence of the powerful hold of political action even on the most
revolutionary Socialists than the summary in which Hervé reviews his reasons for this conclusion:--

     "First: That the only manner of agitating for
     anti-parliamentarism that succeeds, and is without danger, is
     before and after electoral periods--showing constantly to the élite
     of the proletariat the insufficiency and dangers of parliamentarism
     in general and parliamentarist Socialism in particular;

     "Second: During electoral periods all propaganda disparaging the
     possibilities of politics unaided by other forms of action should
     cease, 'in order not to embroil ourselves with the Socialist masses
     who must be handled carefully at any cost, in the interest of the
     revolutionary cause';

     "Third: While the revolutionary Socialists' discontent with the
     party's moderation and exclusive absorption in the details of
     politics or reform ought not to lead them to oppose the
     organization during election periods, it does not follow that
     revolutionary Socialists can not even at such times continue to
     preach their principles and proclaim their hatred to the
     conservative parties and their attitude towards the Parliamentary
     Socialist Party 'of sympathy mixed with distrust';

     "Fourth: An exception should be made against certain Socialist
     candidates who may have taken a scandalously conservative
     anti-labor and anti-revolutionary position in the legislative
     session just gone by, and that against the latter there should be a
     fight to the finish, certain as we are of having with us almost the
     entire support of the parliamentary Socialist Party."[285]

In a word, Hervé proves his democracy by respecting the opinion of the majority of the Socialist
Party, because he hopes and believes that it will become revolutionary in his sense of the
word. With a strong preference for "direct action," strikes, "sabotage," boycotts, etc., he
yet allows his policies to be guided very largely by a political organization.

But Socialist politics are not politics at all in the ordinary sense of the word. They are
directed primarily to prepare the people for a great struggle to come. "Situations are approaching,"
said Bebel at the Congress at Jena, in 1905, "which must of physical necessity lead to catastrophes
unless the working class develop so rapidly in power, numbers, culture, and insight, that the
bourgeoisie lose the desire for catastrophes. We are not seeking a catastrophe,--what use would
it be to us? Catastrophes are brought about by the ruling classes." Bebel was referring particularly
to the possibility and even the probability that the German government might try to destroy
the Socialist Party by limiting the right of suffrage or to crush the unions by limiting the
right of labor to organize. If he predicted a revolutionary crisis, it was to come from a life-and-death
struggle of the working people in self-defense, in a desperate effort to protect economic and
political rights, but especially political rights, which, as the labor unionist, von Elm, said
at this congress, were "the key to all." A revolutionary conflict was anticipated, to be fought
out by economic means, but only as part of a political crisis--in which the majority of the
people would be on the side of the Socialists and the labor unions. Similarly, in America,
Mr. Victor Berger stated at the Socialist Convention of 1908 that he had no doubt that "in
order to be able to shoot even, some day, we must have the powers of the political government
in our hands, at least to a great extent."

While neither the political revolution involved in the capture of government by Socialist voters,
nor the economic revolution that would follow a wholly successful general strike would lead
necessarily to revolution in its narrow sense of a great but relatively brief crisis, or to
revolutionary violence; while either political or economic overturn, or both, combined in a
single movement, might be accomplished peacefully and by degrees, capitalist governments are
just as likely to seize the one as the other, as the occasion for attempts at violent repression.
A complete political victory would thus lead to the same crisis and violence as a victorious
general strike.

As Bebel says, Socialists are not trying to create a revolutionary crisis. But they have little
doubt that the capitalists themselves will precipitate one as soon as Socialism becomes truly
menacing, as may happen within a few years in some countries. "The politicians of the ruling
class have reached a condition where they are ready to risk everything upon a single throw
of the dice," says Kautsky, on the supposition that Socialism is already a real menace in Germany.
"They would rather take their chances in a civil war than endure the fear of a revolution,"
he continues. "The Socialists on the other hand, not only have no reason to follow suit in
this policy of desperation, but should rather seek by every means in their power to postpone
any such insane uprising [of the capitalists] even if it be recognized as inevitable, to a
time when the proletariat will be so powerful as to be able at once to whip the enraged [capitalist]
mob, and to restrain it, so that the one paroxysm shall be its last, and the destruction that
it brings and the sacrifice it costs shall be as small as possible."[286]

The majority of Socialists have no inclination towards violence of any kind at the present
time, whether domestic or foreign, and will avoid it also for all time if they can. But they
fear and expect that the present ruling class will undertake violent measures of repression
which will inevitably result in a conflict of physical force.

The Civic Federation, of which so many conspicuous Americans have been members (including Grover
Cleveland, Andrew Carnegie, August Belmont, Seth Low, Nicholas Murray Butler, and other prominent
philanthropists, educators, statesmen, publicists, and multimillionaires), had its earliest
origin, to the author's personal knowledge, partly in an effort to divert the energies of the
working people from Socialism and revolutionary unionism to the conservative trade unionism
of the older British type. It was natural that this organization should give more and more
of its attention to an organized warfare against the Socialist movement as the latter continued
to grow, and this it has done. Its members have attacked the movement from every quarter, accusing
it of a tendency to undermine religion, the family, and true patriotism. But the most direct
and important accusation it has made has been that the Socialists are working toward revolutionary
violence. In its official organ it has quoted Mr. Debs as saying: "When the revolution comes
we will be prepared to take possession and assume control of every industry." The quotation
is fairly chosen, and represents the Socialist standpoint, but if it is to be thoroughly understood
it must be taken in connection with other positions taken by the party. No revolution is contemplated,
other than one of the overwhelming majority of the people, nor is any violence expected, other
than such that may be instigated by a privileged minority in order to prevent the majority
from gaining control of the government and industries of the country.

That the Civic Federation writers also understand that the violence may come from above rather
than from below is clearly shown in the context of the article in question. The Federation
organ also attacks Mrs. J. G. Phelps Stokes for having said, at Barnard College, that the present
government would probably be overturned by the ballot. In answer to this, the Federation's
organ said, "Mrs. Stokes is a woman of intelligence and doubtless knows that States are not
overturned by ballots." Here is a categorical denial on the part of an organ representing the
most powerful privileged element in the country, of the possibility of peaceful political revolution,
which can only mean that if a majority desires such a peaceful revolutionary change, the minority
now in power will use violence to prevent it. An article by one of the Federation's officials,
Ada C. Sweet, in the same number, makes still further disclosures. Among the "fantastic projects
and schemes of Socialism," she says, are the demand "that the Constitution be made amendable
by a majority vote," and the demand for the abolition of that feature of our government "which
makes the Supreme Court the final interpreter and guardian of the federal Constitution." These
demands, of course, are becoming common outside of the Socialist Party, and would simply move
the United States up to the semi-democratic level of constitutions made during the last half
century. Indeed, the judicial precedents that have created an oligarchy of judges in this country,
though they have existed for a century, have never been imitated by any country on earth, civilized
or uncivilized, with the single exception of Australia. It is these demands, which would not
be held even as radical in other countries, which Miss Sweet says cannot be accomplished without
violence. If this is so, it means that violence will come from above, and the Socialists would
be cowards indeed if they were not ready to resist it.

Miss Sweet contends that "to bring about the first practical experiments" demanded by Socialism
"would start such a civil war as the world has never yet seen in all its long history."[287]
No doubt the writer, who has held a responsible position with the Civic Federation for years,
represents the opinions of her associates. Her prediction may be correct, and if so it would
indicate that the people who at present control this country and its government, and who have
the power to initiate such a civil war, are determined to do so.

While Socialists have no desire for revolutionary violence, being convinced, as they are, that
the present generation will see the majority of the voters of every modern country in their
ranks, and Socialists by right in possession of the legal powers of government, they nevertheless
have never been blind to the readiness of the plutocratic and militaristic forces in control
of governments to proceed to illegal coups d'état, to destroy all vestiges of democracy, if
thought necessary, and to use every form of violence, as soon as they feel that they are beginning
to lose their political power. The evidence that this is already the intention is abundant.

There is no one who has recognized more clearly than the recent "Socialistic" Prime Minister
of France (Briand) that the ruling classes force the people to fight for every great advance.
In the French Socialist Congress of Paris, in 1899, Briand said: "Now I must reply to those
of my friends who through an instinctive horror of every kind of violence have been brought
to hope that the transformation of society can be the work of evolution alone.... Such certainly
are beautiful dreams, but they are only dreams.... In a general way, in every instance, history
demonstrates that the people have scarcely obtained anything except what they have been able
to take for themselves.... It is not through a fad, and much less through the love of violence,
that our party is and must remain revolutionary, but by necessity, one might say by destiny....
In our Congress we have even pointed out forms of revolt, among the first of which are the
general strike." In the International Congress at Paris in 1900, Briand again advocated the
general strike on the ground that it was "necessary as a pressure on capitalistic society,
indispensable for obtaining continued ameliorations of a political and economic kind, and also,
under propitious circumstances, for the purposes of social revolution." Nor can there be any
doubt as to the revolutionary meaning of Briand when he advocated the general strike. In 1899
he had said, "One can discuss a strike of soldiers, one can even try to make ready for it ...
our young military Socialists busy themselves in making the workingman who is going to quit
his shop, and the peasant who is going to desert his fields to go into the barracks, understand
that there are duties higher than those discipline would like to impose upon them." I have
already quoted his recommendation, made on this occasion, that in the case of a social crisis
the soldiers might fire, but need not necessarily fire in the direction suggested by the officers.
As late as 1903 he took up the defense of Gustave Hervé, when the latter was accused of anti-militarism,
and said before the court: "I am glad to declare that I am not led here by a chance client,
I am not here to-day as an advocate pleading for his clients. I am here in a complete and full
community of ideas with friends, for whom it is less important that I should defend their liberty,
than that I should explain and justify their thought and their writings."

There can be no question that the opinions expressed by Briand at this time are approximately
those of the majority of the European Socialists to-day. Some of the leading spokesmen of the
Socialists are no doubt somewhat more cautious of the form of their statements. But the modifications
they would make in Briand's statement would be due, not to any objection in principle, but
to expediency and the practical limitations of such measures as he advocates in each given case.

The great majority of Socialists feel that a premature revolutionary crisis at the present
moment would endanger or postpone the success of a political revolution, peaceful or otherwise,
when the time for it is ripe. The position of Kautsky will show how very cautious the most
influential are. The movement has become so strong in Germany that it might be supposed that
the German Socialists would no longer fear a test of strength. But this is not the case. They
feel, on the contrary that every delay is in their favor, as they are making colossal strides
in their organization and propaganda, while the political situation is becoming more and more
critical.

     "Our recruiting ground," says Kautsky, "to-day includes fully three
     fourths of the population, probably even more; the number of votes
     that are given to us do not equal one third of all the voters and
     not one fourth of all those entitled to vote. But the rate of
     progress increases with a leap when the revolutionary spirit is
     abroad. It is almost inconceivable with what rapidity the mass of
     the people reach a clear consciousness of their class interests at
     such a time. Not alone their courage and their belligerency, but
     their political interest as well, is spurred on in the highest
     degree through the consciousness that the hour has at last come for
     them to burst out of the darkness of night into the glory of the
     full glare of the sun. Even the laziest become industrious, even
     the most cowardly become brave, and even the most narrow gains a
     wider view. In such times a single year will accomplish an
     education of the masses that would otherwise have required a
     generation."[288]

Kautsky's conception of the probable struggle of the future shows that, together with the millions
of Socialists he represents, he expects the great crisis to develop gradually out of the present-day
struggle. He does not expect a precipitate and comparatively brief struggle like the French
Revolution, but rather "long-drawn-out civil wars, if one does not necessarily give to these
words the idea of actual slaughter and battles."

"We are revolutionists," Kautsky concludes, "and this is not in the sense that a steam engine
is a revolutionist. The social transformation for which we are striving can be attained only
through a political revolution, by means of the conquest of political power by the fighting
proletariat. The only form of the State in which Socialism can be realized is that of a republic,
and a thoroughly democratic republic at that.

"The Socialist Party is a revolutionary party, but not a revolution-making party. We know that
our goal can be obtained only through a revolution. We also know that it is just as little
in our power to create this revolution as it is in the power of our opponents to prevent it."[289]

The influential French Socialist, Guesde, agrees with Kautsky that a peaceful solution is highly
improbable, and that the revolution must be one of an overwhelming majority of the people,
not artificially created, but brought about by the ruling classes themselves.

Of course a peaceful revolution might be accomplished gradually and by the most orderly means.
If, however, these peaceful and legal means are later made illegal, or widely interfered with,
if the ballot is qualified or political democracy otherwise thwarted, or if the peaceful acts
of labor organizations, with the extension of government ownership, are looked upon as mutiny
or treason,--then undoubtedly the working people will regard as enemies those who attempt to
legalize such reaction, and will employ all available means to overthrow a "government" of
such a kind.

From Marx and Bebel none of the most prominent spokesmen of the international movement have
doubted that the capitalists would use such violent and extreme measures as to create a world-wide
counter-revolution, and began to make their preparations accordingly. This is why, half a century
ago, they passed beyond mere "revolutionary talk," to "revolutionary action." This practical
"revolutionary evolution," as he called it, was described by Marx (in resigning from a communist
society) in 1851: "We say to the working people, 'You will have to go through ten, fifteen,
fifty years of civil wars and wars between nations not only to change existing conditions,
but to change yourselves and to make yourselves worthy of political power.'" (My italics.)

"Revolutionary evolution" means that Socialists expect, not a single crisis, but a long-drawn-out
series of revolutionary, political, civil, and industrial conflicts. If we substitute for the
insurrectionary civil wars of Marx's time, i.e. of the periods of 1848 and 1870, the industrial
civil wars to-day, i.e. the more and more widespread and successful, the more and more general,
strikes that we have been witnessing since 1900, in countries so widely separated and representative
as France, England, Sweden, Portugal, and Russia and Argentine Republic, Marx's view is that
of the overwhelming majority of Socialists to-day.[290]

The suppression of such widespread strikes will become especially costly as "State Socialism"
brings a larger and larger proportion of the wage earners under its policy of "efficiency wages,"
so that their incomes will be considerably above the mere subsistence level. A large part of
these increased wages can and doubtless will be used against capitalism. Socialists believe
that strikes will become more and more extended and protracted, until the capitalists will
be forced, sooner or later, either to repressive violence, or to begin to make vital economic
or political concessions that will finally insure their unconditional surrender.

Already many non-Socialist observers have firmly grasped the meaning of revolutionary Socialism.
As a distinguished American editor recently remarked, "Universal suffrage and universal education
mean universal revolution; it may be--pray God it be not--a revolution of brutality and crime."[291]
The ruling minority have put down revolutions in the past by "brutality and crime" under the
name of martial "law." Socialists have new evidences every day that similar measures will be
used against them in the future, from the moment their power becomes formidable.

FOOTNOTES:

[284] Rose Luxemburg, "Social-Reform oder Revolution."

[285] "La Guerre Sociale" (Paris), April 20, 1910.

[286] Kautsky, "The Road to Power," Chapter V.

[287] The organ of the Civic Federation, Nov. 15, 1909.

[288] "The Road to Power," Chapter VI.

[289] "The Road to Power," p. 50.

[290] A leading article of the official weekly of the German Socialist Party on the eve of
the elections of 1912 gives the strongest possible evidence that the German Socialists regard
the ballot primarily as a means to revolution. The article is written by Franz Mehring, the
historian of the German movement, and its leading argument is to be found in the following
paragraphs:--

"The more votes the Social-Democracy obtains in these elections, the more difficult it will
be for the Reaction to carry out exceptional laws [referring to Bismarck's legislation practically
outlawing the Socialists], and the more this miserable weapon will become for them a two-edged
sword. Certainly it will come to that [anti-Socialist legislation] in the end, for no one in
possession of his five senses believes that, when universal suffrage sends a Social-Democratic
majority to the Reichstag, the ruling classes will say with a polite bow: 'Go ahead, Messrs.
Workingmen; you have won, now please proceed as you think best.' Sooner or later the possessing
classes will begin a desperate game, and it is as necessary for the working classes to be prepared
for this event as it would be madness for them to strengthen the position of their enemies
by laying down their arms. It can only be to their advantage to gather more numerous fighting
forces under their banner, even if by this means they hasten the historical process [the day
when anti-Socialist laws will be passed], and indeed precisely because of this.

"La Salle used to say to his followers in confidential talks: 'When I speak of universal suffrage
you must always understand that I mean revolution.' And the Party has always conceived of universal
suffrage as a means of revolutionary recruiting" (Die Neue Zeit, December 16, 1911).

[291] From a press interview with Mr. Henry Watterson in 1909; verified by a private letter
to the author.

CHAPTER IX

THE TRANSITION TO SOCIALISM

The Socialist policy requires so complete a reversal of the policy of collectivist capitalism,
that no government has taken any steps whatever in that direction. No governments and no political
parties, except the Socialists, have any such steps under discussion, and finally, no governments
or capitalist parties are sufficiently alarmed or confused by the menace of Socialism to be
hurried or driven into a policy which would carry them a stage nearer to the very thing they
are most anxious to avoid.

If we are moving towards Socialism it is due to entirely different causes: to the numerical
increase, and the improved education and organization of the non-capitalist classes, to their
training in the Socialist parties and labor unions for the definite purpose of turning the
capitalists (as such) out of industry and government, to the experience they have gained in
political and economic struggles against overwhelmingly superior forces, to the fact that the
enemy, though he can prevent them at present from gaining even a partial control over industry
or government, or from seizing any strategic point of the first importance, is utterly unable
to crush them, notwithstanding his greater and greater efforts to do so, and cannot prevent
them from gaining on him constantly in numbers and superiority of organization.

If we are advancing towards Socialism, it is not because the non-capitalist classes, when compared
with the capitalists, are gradually gaining a greater share of wealth or more power in society.
It is because they are gradually gaining that capacity for organized political and economic
action which, though useless except for defensive purposes to-day, will enable them to take
possession of industry and government when their organization has become stronger than that
of the capitalists.

The overwhelming majority of Socialists and labor unionists are occupied either with purely
defensive measures or with preparations for aggressive action in the future. This does not
mean that no economic or political reforms of benefit or importance can be expected until the
Socialists have conquered capitalism or forced it to recognize their power; I have shown that,
on the contrary, a colossal program of such reforms is either impending or in actual process
of execution. It means only that for every advance allotted to labor, a greater advance will
be gained by the capitalist class which is promoting these reforms, that their most important
effect is to increase the relative power of the capitalists.

The first governmental step towards Socialism will have been taken when the Socialist organizations
are able to say: During this administration the position of the non-capitalist classes has
improved faster than that of the capitalists. But even such a governmental step towards Socialism
does not mean that Socialism is being installed. It may be followed by a step in the opposite
direction. No advance can be permanently held until the organizations of non-capitalists have
become superior to or at least as powerful as those of the capitalists. An actual step in Socialism,
moreover, as distinct from such an insecure political step towards Socialism, depends in no
degree upon the action of non-Socialist governments (and still less on local Socialist administrations
subject to higher non-Socialist control) unless such governments are already practically vanquished,
and so forced to obey Socialist orders. An actual installment of Socialism awaits, first, a
certain development of Socialist parties and labor unions, and second, on these organizations
securing control of a sovereign and independent government (if there be any such), or of a
group of industries that dominates it. And if the governments of the various capitalistic countries
are as interdependent as they seem, a number of them will have to be captured before the possession
of any is secure.

