Owen Feltham says--"The poverty of a poor man is the least part of his misery. In all the storms
of fortune, he is the first that must stand the shock of extremity. Poor men are perpetual
sentinels, watching in the depth of night against the incessant assaults of want; while the
rich lie strowd in secure reposes, and compassed with a large abundance. If the land be ruffetted
with a bloodless famine, are not the poor the first that sacrifice their lives to hunger? If
war thunders in the trembling country's lap, are not the poor those that are exposed to the
enemy's sword and outrage? If the plague, like a loaded sponge, flies, sprinkling poison through
a populous kingdom, the poor are the fruit that are shaken from the burdened tree; while the
rich, furnished with the helps of fortune, have means to wind out themselves, and turn these
sad indurances on the poor, that cannot avoid them. Like salt-marshes, that lie low, they are
sure, whenever the sea of this world rages, to be first under, and embarrened with a fretting
care. Who like the poor are harrowed with oppression, ever subject to the imperious taxes,
and the gripes of mightiness? Continual care checks the spirit; continual labour checks the
body; and continual insultation both. He is like one rolled in a vessel full of pikes--which
way soever he turns, he something finds that pricks him. Yet, besides all these, there is another
transcendent misery--and this is, that maketh men contemptible. As if the poor man were but
fortune's dwarf, made lower than the rest of men, to be laughed at. The philosopher (though
he were the same mind and the same man), in his squalid rags, could not find admission, when
better robes procured both an open door and reverence. Though outward things can add nothing
to our essential worth, yet, when we are judged on, by the help of others' outward senses,
they much conduce to our value or disesteem. A diamond set in brass would be taken for a crystal,
though it be not so; whereas a crystal set in gold will by many be thought a diamond. A poor
man wise shall be thought a fool, though he have nothing to condemn him but his being poor.
Poverty is a gulf, wherein all good parts are swallowed;--it is a reproach, which clouds the
lustre of the purest virtue. Certainly, extreme poverty is worse than abundance. We may be
good in plenty, if we will; in biting penury we cannot, though we would. In one, the danger
is casual; in the other, it is necessitating. The best is that which partakes of both, and
consists of neither. He that hath too little wants feathers to fly withal; he that hath too
much, is but cumbered with too large a tail. If a flood of wealth could profit us, it would
be good to swim in such a sea; but it can neither lengthen our lives, nor inrich us after the
end. There is not in the world such another object of pity as the pinched state; which no man
being secured from, I wonder at the tyrant's braves and contempt. Questionless, I will rather
with charity help him that is miserable, as I may be, than despise him that is poor, as I would
not be. They have flinty and steeled hearts that can add calamities to him that is already
but one entire mass."

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

ACCOUNT OF THE IRISH MANTLE. Therein he wrappeth himselfe round, and coucheth himself strongly
against the gnats, which in that country doe more annoye the naked rebells, whilst they keepe
the woods, and doe more sharply wound them than all their enemies' swords, or spears, which
can seldome come nigh them; yea, and oftentimes their mantle serveth them, when they are neare
driven, being wrapped about their left arme, instead of a target, for it is hard to cut through
with a sword; besides, it is light to bear, light to throw away, and being (as they commonly
are) naked, it is to them all in all. Lastly, for a thiefe it is so handsome, as it may seem
it was first invented for him; for under it he may cleanly convey any fit pillage that cometh
handsomely in his way, and when he goeth abroad in the night free-booting, it is his best and
surest friend; for lying, as they often doe, two or three nights together abroad, to watch
for their booty, with that they can prettily shroud themselves under a bush, or bankside, till
they may conveniently do their errand; and when all is over, he can, in his mantle, passe through
any town or company, being close hooded over his head, as he useth, from knowledge of any to
whom he is endangered. Besides this, he, or any man els that is disposed to mischiefe or villany,
may under his mantle goe privily armed, without suspicion of any, carry his head-piece, his
skean, or pistol, if he please, to be always in readinesse."

Spencer traces these mantles from the Scythians. He says--"The Irish have from the Scythians
mantles and long glibs, which is a thick curled bush of hair, hanging down over their eyes,
and monstrously disguising theme."

This curious View of the State of Ireland remained in manuscript till it was printed, in 1633,
by Sir James Ware, denominated "the Camden of Ireland."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

DOMESTIC HINTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONSUMPTION OF FISH.

There is but little fish consumed in the interior of Great Britain; and even in most seaport
towns the consumption is not very great. In London, indeed, immense quantities of fish are
annually made use of; and there can be little doubt that the consumption would be much greater,
were it not for the abuses in the trade, which render the supply comparatively scarce, and,
in most instances, exceedingly dear. All fish brought to London is sold in Billingsgate market;
and, in consequence of this restriction, the salesmen of that market have succeeded in establishing
what is really equivalent to a monopoly, and are in a great measure enabled to regulate both
the supply and the price.--Macculloch.

This inconsiderable consumption of fish will be a matter of surprise, when we see that the
supply of fish in the seas round Britain is most abundant, or rather quite inexhaustible. "The
coasts of Great Britain," says Sir John Boroughs, "doe yield such a continued harvest of gain
and benefit to all those that with diligence doe labour in the same, that no time or season
of the yeare passeth away without some apparent meanes of profitable employment, especially
to such as apply themselves to fishing; which, from the beginning of the year unto the latter
end, continueth upon some part or other of our coastes; and there in such infinite shoals and
multitudes of fishes are offered to the takers as may justly cause admiration, not only to
strangers, but to those that daily are employed amongst them."--"That this harvest," says Mr.
Barrow, "ripe for gathering at all seasons of the year,--without the labour of tillage--without
expense of seed or manure--without the payment of rent or taxes--is inexhaustible, the extraordinary
fecundity of the most valuable kinds of fish would alone afford abundant proof. To enumerate
the thousands, and even millions of eggs which are impregnated in the herring, the cod, the
ling, and, indeed, in almost the whole of the esculent fish, would give but an inadequate idea
of the prodigious multitudes in which they flock to our shores. The shoals themselves must
be seen, in order to convey to the mind any just notice of their aggregate mass." Mr. Macculloch,
however, observes, that "notwithstanding this immense abundance of fish, and notwithstanding
the bounties that have been given by the legislature to the individuals engaged in the fishery,
it has not been profitable to those by whom it has been carried on, nor has it made that progress
which might have been expected."

