Valerie, standing on the last step of the stair, a little above him, paused in the act of adjusting
her glove, to stare at him. Easy as his tone was he couldn't hide from her that he wore a mask.

"Was Mary too late to give my message?"

"Yes;--that is, no, not exactly; but the club had been arranged and Miss Bocock was eager about
it and knew you wouldn't mind, especially as Sir Basil set his heart on the drive with you,
when he heard that I couldn't go."

"That you couldn't go?--but you sent Mary to ask me."

"I had to waive my claim,--I've just had these letters"; he held them up. "Very important;
they must be answered at once; it will take all my morning, and, of course, when Sir Basil
heard that, he jumped at his chance."

Valerie was still on the step above him, fully illuminated, and, as, with that careful ease,
he urged Sir Basil's eagerness upon her, he saw--with what a throb of the heart, for her, for
himself--that her deep flush rose.

Oh, she loved him. She couldn't conceal it, not from the eyes that watched her now. And was
she glad of an unasked-for help, or did her pride suspect help and resent it? Above all did
she know how in need of help she was?

He hadn't been able to prevent his eyes from turning from the blush; they avowed, he feared,
the consciousness that he would hide; but, after a little moment, in the same voice of determined,
though cautious penetration, Valerie questioned: "Is Imogen just gone?"

"She has been gone these fifteen minutes," said Jack, striving to conceal triumph.

"And Mary?"

"Mary?"

"Yes; where is Mary? Is she left out of all your combinations?"

She did probe, then, though her voice was so mild, the voice, only, of the slightly severe,
slightly displeased hostess who finds her looms entangled.

"Mary always has a lot to do."

"Sir Basil shall take Mary," said Valerie cheerfully, as though she picked up the thread and
found a way out of the silly chaos of his making.

And at this crisis, this check from the goddess who wouldn't be served, Jack's new skill rose
to an almost sinister height. Without a flaw in their apparent candor, his eyes met hers while
he said:--"Please don't upset my little personal combination. It's very selfish of me, I know;--but
I wanted to keep Mary for myself this morning. I've seen so little of her of late; and I need
her to talk over my letters with; they're about things we are both interested in."

Valerie looked fixedly at him while he made this statement, and he couldn't tell what her look
meant. But, evidently, she yielded to his counter-stratagem, feeling it, no doubt, unavoidable,
for the buggy just then drew up before the door, and the figure of Sir Basil appeared above.

"I am in luck!" said Sir Basil. Excitement as well as eagerness was visible in him. Valerie
did not look up at him, though she smiled vaguely, coming down from her step and selecting
a parasol on her way to the door. Jack was beside her, and he saw that the flush still stayed.
He seemed to see, too, that she was excited and eager, but, more than all, that she was frightened.
Yet she kept, for him, her quiet voice.

Before Sir Basil joined them she had time to say:--"You are rather mysterious, Jack. If you
have deep-laid plans, I would rather you paid me the compliment of showing me the deepest one
at once. I am not being nasty to you," she smiled faintly. "Find Mary at once, you must have
wasted a lot of time already in getting to those letters."

Jack stood in the doorway while they drove off. Valerie, though now very pale, in the shadow
of her hat, showed all her gay tranquillity, and she was very lovely. Sir Basil must see that.
He must see that, and all the other things, that, perhaps, he had forgotten for a foolish moment.

Jack felt himself, this morning, in a category where he had never thought it possible that
he should find himself. It was difficult to avoid the conviction that he had, simply, lied
two or three times in order to send Mrs. Upton and Sir Basil off together in their long, swaying,
sunny solitude. Jack had never imagined it possible that he should lie. But, observing, as
he was forced to, the blot on his neat, clean conscience, he found himself considering it without
a qualm. His only qualm was for its success. The drive would justify him. He almost swore it
to himself, as Valerie's parasol disappeared among the trees. The drive would justify him,
and reinstate Sir Basil. Unless Sir Basil were a fool, what he had done was well done.

Yet, when they had disappeared, it was with the saddest drop to anxious, to gnawing uncertainty,
that Jack turned back into the house. An echo of the fear that he had felt in Valerie seemed
to float back to him. It was as if, in some strange way, he had handed her over to pain rather
than to joy, to sacrifice rather than to attainment.

XXVII

Jack's morning was not a happy one. It was bad enough to have told so many fibs, or, at all
events, to have invented so many opportune truths, and it was worse to have to go on inventing
more of them to Mary, now that his dexterities had linked him to her.

Mary looked, as was only too natural, much surprised, when he told her that his letters required
her help. She looked still more so when she found how inadequate were their contents to account
for such a claim.

Indeed there was, apparently, but one letter upon which her advice could be of the least significance,
and after she had given him all the information she had to give in regard to the charity for
which it appealed, there was really nothing more for them to do.

"But--the letters that required the immediate answers?" she asked.

Jack's excited, plausible manner had dropped from him. Mary felt it difficult to be severe
when his look of dejection was piercing her heart; still, she felt that she owed it to him
as well as to herself, she must see a little more clearly into how he had "had things so."

He replied, his eye neither braving nor evading hers, that he had already answered them; and
Mary, after a little pause, in which she studied her friend's face, said:--"I don't understand
you this morning, Jack."

"I'm afraid you'll understand me less when I make you a confession. I didn't give your message
this morning, Mary."

"Didn't give Mrs. Upton's message, to Miss Bocock, to Sir Basil?"

"No," said Jack, but with more mildness and sadness than compunction;--"I want to be straight
with you, at all events. So I'd rather tell you. All I did was to say to Sir Basil that I found
I couldn't take Mrs. Upton for the drive I'd promised, so that if he wanted to take my place,
he was welcome to the buggy. He wanted to, of course. That went without saying."

"Why, Jack Pennington!"

"Miss Bocock, luckily, was on the other side of the veranda, so that I had only to go round
to her afterward and tell her that Mrs. Upton had suggested their gardening, but that since
she was going to drive with Sir Basil she could go off to the club, at once, too, with Imogen."

"But, Jack!--what did you mean by it?"--Mary, quite aghast, stared at her Machiavellian friend.

"Why, that Sir Basil should take her. That's all I meant from the beginning, when I proposed
going myself. Do forgive me, you dear old brick. You see, I'm so awfully set on her not being
done out of things."

"Done out of things?"

"Oh, little things, if you like, young things. She's young, and she ought to have them. Say
you forgive me."

"Of course, Jack dear, I forgive you, though I don't understand you. But that's not the point.
Everything seems so queer, so twisted; every one seems different. And to find you not straight
is worst of all."

"I promise you, it's my last sin," said Jack.

Mary, though shaking her bewildered head, had to smile a little, and, the smile encouraging
him to lightness, he remarked on her changed aspect.

"So do forgive and forget. I had to confess, when I'd not been true to you. Really, my nature
isn't warped. What an extremely becoming dress that is Mary;--and what have you done to your hair?"

"It's she," said Mary, flushing with pleasure.

"Mrs. Upton?"

"Yes, she did my hair and gave me the dress. She was so sweet and dear."

Jack lightly touched a plaited ruffle of the wide sleeve, and Mary felt that he had never less
thought of her than when he so touched her dress. She put aside the deep little pang that gave
her to say: "It's true, Jack, she ought to have young things, just because they are going from
her; one feels that: She oughtn't to be standing back, and giving up things, yet. I see a little
what you mean. Isn't it pretty?" Still, with an absent hand, he lightly touched, here and there,
a ruffle of her sleeve. "But it's like her. I hardly feel myself in it."

"You've never so looked yourself," said Jack. "That's what she does, brings out people's real
selves."

Mrs. Upton and Sir Basil did not come back to lunch, and Imogen's face was somber indeed as
she faced her guests at the table. Jack, vigilant and pitiless, guessed at the turmoil of her soul.

She asked him, with an icy sweetness, how his letters had prospered. "Did you get them all off?"

Jack said that he had, and Mary, casting a wavering glance at him, saw that if he intended
to sin no more, he showed, at all events, a sinful guilelessness of demeanor. She herself began
to blush so helplessly and so furiously that Imogen's attention was drawn to her. Imogen, also,
was vigilant.

"And what have you been doing, Mary dear?" she asked.

"I--oh"--poor Mary looked the sinful one;--"I--helped Jack a little."

"Helped Jack?--Oh, yes, he had heaps of letters, hadn't he? What were they all about, Mary?"

"Oh, charities."

"Charities?--What charities? How many charities?--I'm interested in that, you know--I'm rather
hurt that you didn't ask my advice, too," and Imogen smiled her ominous smile. "What were the
charities?"

Mary, crimson to the brow, her eyes on her plate, now did her duty.

"There was only one."

"One--and that of such consequence that Jack had to give up his drive because of it?--what
an interesting letter."

"There were other letters, of course," Jack, in aid of his innocent accomplice, struck in.
"None that would have particularly interested you, Imogen. I only needed advice about the one,
a local Boston affair."

"There were others, Mary," said Imogen, laughing a little, "You needn't look so guilty on Jack's
account." Mary gave her a wide, startled stare.

"You see, Mary," said Rose, after lunch in the drawing-room, "saints can sting."

"What was the matter!" Mary murmured, her head still seemed to buzz, as though from a violent
box on the ear. "I never heard Imogen speak like that. To hurt one!"

"I fancy she'd been getting thwarted in some way," said Rose comfortably; "saints do sting,
then, sometimes, the first thing that happens to be at hand. How Jack and she hate each other!"

Mary went away to her room and cried.

Meanwhile Jack wandered about in the woods until, quite late in the afternoon, he saw from
the rustic bench, where, finally, he had cast himself, the returning buggy climbing up through
the lower woodlands.

He felt that his heart throbbed heavily as he watched it, just catching glimpses, among the
trees, of the white bubble of Valerie's parasol slanting against the sun. Yet there was a dullness
in his excitement. It was over, at all events. He was sure that the last die was cast. And
his own trivial and somewhat indecorous part, of shifter of scenes and puller of strings, was,
he felt sure, a thing put by forever. He could help her no longer. And in a sort of apathy,
he sat out there in the sunny green, hardly thinking, hardly wondering, conscious only of a
hope that had become a mere physical sense of oppression and of an underlying sadness that
had become, almost, a physical sense of pain.

He had just consulted his watch and, seeing it wanted but ten minutes to tea-time, had got
up and was moving away, when a sudden rustle near him, a pause, a quick, evasive footstep,
warned him of some presence as anxious for solitude as himself.

He stood still for a moment, uncertain as to his own best means of retreat, but his stillness
misled, for, in another moment, Valerie appeared before him from among the branches of a narrow
side path.

She had come up to the woods directly; he saw that, for she still wore her hat; she had come
to be alone and to weep; and, as she saw Jack, her pale face was convulsed, with the effort
to control her weeping, into a strange rigor of pain and confusion.

"Oh"--he stammered. "Forgive me. I didn't know you were here." He was turning to flee, as if
from a sacrilege, when she recalled him.

"Don't--without me. I must go back, too," she said.

She stepped on to the broader path and joined him, and he guessed that she tested, on him,
her power to face the others. But, after they had gone a few steps together, she stopped suddenly
and put her hands before her face, standing quite still.

And Jack understood that she was helpless and that he must say nothing. She stood so for a
long moment, not trusting herself to move or speak. Then, uncovering her face, she showed him
strange eyes from which the tears had been crushed back.

"And--I can do nothing?--" he said at last, on the lowest breath, as they walked on.

"Nothing, dear Jack."

"When you are suffering like that!"

"I have no right to such suffering. I must hide it. Help me to hide it, Jack. Do I look fairly
decent?" She turned her face to him, with, he thought, the most valorous smile he had ever seen.

Only a thin screen of leaves was between them and the open.

"You look--beautiful," said Jack. She smiled on, as though that satisfied her, and he added,
"Can I know nothing?--See nothing?"

"I think already," said Valerie, "that you see more than I ever meant any one to see."

"I?--I see nothing, now," he almost moaned.

"You shall. I'll talk to you later."

"You will? If only you knew how I cared!"

"I do, dear Jack."

"Not how much, not how much. You can't know that. It almost gives me my right, you know, to
see. When will you talk to me?"

"Some time to-night, when we can have a quiet moment. I'll tell you about the things that have
happened--nothing to make you sad, I hope. And I'll ask you some questions, too, Jack, about
your very odd behavior!"

Really she was wonderful; it was almost her own gaiety, flickering like pale sunlight upon
her face, that she had regained, and, as they went together over the lawn to where the tea-table
was laid in the shade, he saw that she could face them all. No one would know. And her last
words had given him heart, had lifted, a little, the heavy weight of foreboding. Perhaps, perhaps,
her grief wasn't for herself. "Oh, but I can't be candid till you are," he said, the new hope
shining in his eyes.

"Oh, yes, you will be," she returned. "You won't ask me to be candid. You'll give and not ask
to get back. I know you, Jack."

No one could guess; Sir Basil least of all. That was apparent to Jack as he watched them all
sitting at tea under the apple-trees. Sir Basil had never looked so radiant, so innocent of
any connection with suffering. He exclaimed over the beauties of their long drive. They had
crossed hill and dale; they had lost their way; they had had lunch at a village hotel, an amusing
lunch, ending with ice-cream and pie, and, from the undiminished reflection of his contentment
on Valerie's features, Jack knew that any faintest hint of the pale, stricken anguish of the
woodlands had never for an instant hovered during the drive. This was the face that Sir Basil
had seen for all the happy, sunny, picnic day, this face of gay tranquillity.

Sir Basil and Mrs. Upton, indeed, expressed what gaiety there was among the group. Mary, in
her blue lawn, looked very dreary. Rose and Eddy were ill-tempered, their day, plainly, having
ended in a quarrel. As for Imogen, Jack had felt her heavy eye rest upon him and her mother
as they came together over the lawn, and felt it rest upon her mother and Sir Basil steadily
and somberly, while they sat about the tea-table. The long drive, Sir Basil's radiance, her
mother's serenity, how must they look to Imogen? Jack could conjecture, though knowing, for
his own bitter mystification, that what they looked like was perhaps not what they meant. Imogen
must be truly at bay, and he felt a cruel satisfaction in the thought of her hidden, her gnawing
anxiety. He was aware of every ring of falsity in her placid voice and of every flash of fierceness
under the steeled calmness of her eye. He noticed, too, for the rest of the day, that, whatever
Imogen's desperation, she made no effort to see Sir Basil alone. Almost ostentatiously she
went away to her room after tea, saying that she had had bad news of an invalid protege and
must write to her. She paused, as she went, to lean over Mary, a caressing hand upon her shoulder,
and to speak to her in a low tone. Mary grew very red, stammered, and said nothing.

"Miss Upton overworks, I think," observed Miss Bocock. "I've thought that she seemed overstrained
all day."

Mary had risen too, and as she wandered away into the flower garden, Jack followed her.

"See here," he said, "has Imogen been hurting you again?"

"No, Jack, oh no;--I'm sure she doesn't mean to hurt."

"What did she say to you just now?"

"Well, Jack, you did bring it upon yourself, and upon me"--

"What was it?"

"She said that she couldn't bear to see her white flower--that's I, you know,"--Mary blushed
even deeper in repeating the metaphor--"used for unworthy ends. She meant, of course, I see
that,--she meant that what she said at lunch was for you and not for me. I'm sure that Imogen
means to be kind--always."

"I believe she does."

"I'm glad that you feel that, too, Jack. It is so horrible to see oneself as--oh, really disloyal
sometimes."

"You need never feel that, Mary."

"Oh, but I do. And now, when everything, every one, seems turning against Imogen! And she has
seemed different;--yet for two years she has been a revelation of everything noble to me."

"You only saw her in noble circumstances."

"Oh, Jack," Mary's eyes were full of tears as she looked at him now, "that's the worst of all;
that you have come to speak of her like that."

XXVIII

Even Valerie couldn't dispel the encompassing cloud of gloom at dinner. One couldn't do much
in such a fog but drift with it. And Jack saw that she was fit for no more decisive action.

Imogen, pale, and almost altogether silent, said that she was very tired, and went up-stairs
early. Rose and Eddy, in a shaded corner of the drawing-room, engaged in a long altercation.
The others talked, in desultory fashion, till bedtime. No one seemed fit for more than drifting.

It was hardly eleven when Jack was left alone with Mrs. Upton.

"You are tired, too," he said to her; "dreadfully tired. I mustn't ask for our talk."

"I should like a little stroll in the moonlight." Valerie, at the open window, was looking
out. "In a night or two it will be too late for us to see. We'll have our walk and our talk, Jack."

She rang for her white chuddah, told the maid to put out the lamps, and that she and Mr. Pennington
would shut the house when they came in. From the darkened house they stepped into the warm,
pale night. They went in silence over the lawn and, with no sense of choice, took the mossy
path that led to the rustic bench where they had met that afternoon.

It was not until they were lost in the obscurity of the woods that Valerie said, very quietly:
"Do you remember our talk, Jack, on that evening in New York, after the tableaux?"

He had followed along the path just behind her; but now he came to her side so that he could
see her shadowy face. "Yes;--the evening in which we saw that Imogen and Sir Basil were going
to be friends."

"And the evening," said Valerie, "when you showed me plainly, at last, that because I seemed
gold to you, Imogen's blue had turned to green."

"Yes;--I remember."

"It has faded further and further away, her blue, hasn't it?"

"Yes," he confessed.

"So that you are hardly friends, Jack?"

He paused for a moment, and then completed his confession:--"We are not friends."

Valerie stood still, breathing as if with a little difficulty after the gradual ascent. The
tall trees about them were dark and full of mystery on the pale mysterious sky. Through the
branches they could see the glint of the moon's diminished disk.

"That is terrible, you know," said Valerie, after they had stood in silence for some moments.

"I know it."

"For both of you."

"Worse for me, because I cared more, really cared more."

"No, worse for her, for it is you who have judged and rejected her."

"She thinks that it is she who has judged and rejected me."

"She tries to think it; she does not always succeed. It has been bitter, it has been cruel
for her."

"Oh, yes, bitter and cruel," he assented.

"Don't try to minimize her pain, Jack."

"You feel that I can't care, much?"

"It is horrible for me to feel it. Think of her when I came, so secure, so calm, so surrounded
by love and appreciation. And now"--Valerie walked on, as if urged to motion by the controlled
force of her own insistence. Was it an appeal to him that Imogen, dispossessed of the new love,
might find again the old love opening to her? He clung to the hope, though with a sickening
suspicion of its folly.

"By my coming, I have robbed her of everything," Valerie was saying, walking swiftly up the
path and breathing as if with that slight difficulty--the sound of her breaths affected him
with an almost intolerable sense of expectancy. "She isn't secure;--she isn't calm. She is
warped;--her faiths are warped. Her friends are changed to her. She has lost you. It's as if
I had shattered her life."

"Everything that wasn't real you have shattered."

The rustic bench was reached and they paused there, though with no eyes for the shaft of mystic
distance that opened before them. Jack's eyes were on her and he was conscious of a rising
insistence in himself that matched and opposed her own.

"But you must be sorry for her pain," said Valerie, and now, with eyes almost stern in their
demand, she gazed at him;--"you must be sorry that she has had to lose so much. And you would
be glad, would you not, to think that real things, a new life, were to come to her?"

He understood; even before the words, his fear, his presage, leaped forward to this crashing
together of all his hopes. And it seemed to him that a flame passed through him, shriveling
in its ardent wrath all trite reticences and decorums.

"No; no, I should not be glad," he answered. His voice was violent; the eyes he fixed on her
were violent. His words struck Imogen out of his life for ever.

"Why are you so cruel?" she faltered.

"I am cruel for you. I know what you want to do. You are going to give her your life."

Quick as a flash she answered--it was like a rapier parrying his stroke:--"Give?--what have
I to do with it, if it comes to her?"

"Everything! Everything!" he cried.

"Nothing. You are mistaken."

"Ah,--you could keep it, you could keep it--if you tried." And now his eyes pleaded--pleaded
with her, for her own life's sake, to keep what was hers. "You have only to show her to him,
as you did to me."

"You think--I could do that!--to my child!"--Through the darkness her white face looked a wild
reproach at him.

He seized her hands:--"It's to do her no wrong!--It's only to be true, consciously, to him,
as you were true, unconsciously, to me. It's only, not to let her rob you--not to let her rob him."

"Jack," she breathed heavily, "these are things that cannot be said."

"They must--they must--now, between us. I have my right. I've cared enough--to do anything,
so that she should not rob you!" Jack groaned.

"She has not robbed me. It left me;--it went to her;--I saw it all. Even if I had been base
enough, even if I had tried to keep it by showing her to him--as you say so horribly,--even
then I should not have kept it. He would not have seen. Don't you understand;--he is not that
sort of man. She will always be blue to him, and I will always be gold--though perhaps, now,
a little tarnished. That's what is so beautiful in him--and so stupid. He doesn't see colors,
as you and I do, Jack. That's what makes me sure that this is the happiest of fortunes for
them both."

He had held her hands, gazing at her downcast face, its strength speaking from the shadow,
its pain hidden from him, and now, before her resolution and her gentleness, he bent his head
upon the hands he held. "Oh, but you, you, you!--It's you whose life is shattered!" broke from
him with a sob.

For a long while she stood silent above him, her hands enfolding his, as though she comforted
his grief. He found himself at length kissing the gentle hands, with tears, and then, caressing
his bent head with a light touch, she said: "Don't you see that the time has come for me to
accept shatterings as in the order of things, dear Jack?--My mistake has been to believe that
life can begin over again. It can't. One uses it up--merely by waiting. I've been an incurable
girl till now;--and now, I've crashed from girlhood to middle-age in a week! It's been a crash,
of course; the sort of crash one never mends of; but after to-day, after you sent me off with
him, Jack, and I allowed myself, in spite of all my dread, my pride, my relinquishment, just
one flicker of girlish hope,--after all this, I think that I must put on caps to show that
I am really old at last."

He lifted his head and looked at her. Her face was lovely, with the silver disk of the moon
above it and, about it, the mystery and sadness of the tranquil woods. So lovely, so young,
with almost the trembling touch of a tender mockery, like the trembling of moonlit water, upon
it. And all that he found to say at last was:--"What a fool he is."

She really smiled then, though tears sprang to her eyes with her comprehension of all that
the helpless, boyish words struggled to subdue.

"Thanks for that, dear Jack,--and for all the other mistakes," she said.

There seemed nothing more to say, no questions to ask, or to answer. He must accept from her
that her plight was irrevocable. It was as if he had seen a great stone rolled over the quivering,
springing, shining fountain, sealing it, stilling it for ever. And, for his part, her word
covered all. His "mistakes" needed no further revealing.

They had turned and, in silence, were moving down the path again, when they heard, suddenly,
the sound of light, swift footsteps approaching them. They paused, exchanging a glance of wonder;
and Jack thought that he saw fear in Valerie's eyes. The day, already, had held overmuch of
endurance for her, and it was not yet ended. In another moment, tall and illumined, Imogen
appeared before them in the path.

Jack knew, in thinking it over afterward, that Imogen at her most baleful had been Imogen at
her most beautiful. She had looked, as she emerged from shadow into light, like a virgin saint
bent on some wild errand through the night, an errand brought to a proud pause, in which was
no fear and no hesitancy, as her path was crossed by the spirits of an evil world. That was
really just what she looked like, standing there before them, bathed in light, her eyes profound
and stern, her hair crowning her with a glory of transmuted gold, her head uplifted with a
high, unfaltering purpose. That the shock of finding them there before her was great, one saw
at once; and one could gage the strength of her purpose from her instantaneous surmounting
of the shock.

And it was strange, in looking back, to remember how the time of colorless light and colorless
shadow had seemed to divest them all of daily conventions and daily seemings. They might have
been three disembodied souls met there in the moonlit woods and speaking the direct, unimpeded
language of souls, for whom all concealments are useless.

"Oh--it is you," was what Imogen said; much as the virgin saint might have greeted the familiar
demons who opposed her quest. You, meant both of them. She put them together into one category
of evil, saw them as one in their enmity to her and to good. And she seemed to accept them
as very much what a saint might expect to find on such a nocturnal errand.

Involuntarily Valerie had fallen back, and she had put her hand on Jack's shoulder in confusion
more than in fear. Yet, feeling a menace in the white, shining presence, her voice faltered
as she asked: "Imogen, what are you doing here?"

And it was at this point that Imogen reached, really, her own culmination. Whatever shame,
whatever hesitation, whatever impulsion to deceive when deception was so easy, she may have
felt; to lie, when a lie would be so easily convincing, she rejected and triumphed over. Jack
knew from her uplifted look that the moment would count with her always as one of her great
ones one of the moments in which--as she had used to say to him sometimes in the days that
were gone forever--one knew that one had "beat down Satan under one's feet."

"You have no right to ask me that," she said, "but I choose to answer you. I have come here
to meet Sir Basil."

"Meet him?" It was in pure bewilderment that Valerie questioned, helplessly, without reproach.

"Meet him. Yes. What have you to say to it?"

"But why meet him?--Why now?" The wonder on Valerie's face had broken to almost merriment.
"Did he ask you to?--Really, really, he oughtn't to. Really, my child, I can't have you meeting
Sir Basil in the woods at midnight."

"You can't have me meeting him in the woods at midnight?" Imogen repeated, an ominous cadence,
holding her head high and taking long breaths. "You say that, dare say it, when you well know
that I can meet him nowhere else and in no other way. It was I who asked him to meet me here
and it is here, confronted with you, if you so choose; it is here, before you and under God's
stars, that I shall know the truth from him. I am not ashamed; I am proud to say it;--I love
him. And though you scheme, and stoop and strive to take him from me--you, with Jack to help
you--Jack to lie for you--as he did this morning,--I know, I know in my heart and soul that
he loves me, that he is mine."

"Jack!--Jack!" Valerie cried. She caught him back, for he started forward to seize, to gag
her daughter; "Jack--remember, remember!--She doesn't understand!"

"Oh, he may strike me if he wills." Imogen had stood quite still, not flinching.

"I don't want to strike you--you--you idiot!"--Jack was gasping. "I want to force you to your
knees, before your mother--who loves you--as no one else who knows you will ever love you!"
And, helplessly, his old words, so trite, so inadequate, came back to him. "You self-centered,
you self-righteous, you cold-hearted girl!"

Valerie still held his arm with both hands, leaning upon him.

"Imogen," she said, speaking quickly, "you needn't meet Sir Basil in this way;--there is nothing
to prevent you from seeing him where and when you will. You are right in believing that he
loves you. He asked me this morning for your hand. And I gave him my consent."

From a virgin saint Imogen, as if with the wave of a wand, saw herself turned into a rather
foolish genie, so transformed and then, ever so swiftly, run into a bottle;--it was surely
the graceful seal firmly affixed thereto when she heard these words of conformity to the traditions
of dignified betrothal. And for once in her life, so bottled and so sealed, she looked, as
if through the magic crystal of her mother's words, absolutely, helplessly foolish. It is difficult
for a genie in a bottle to look contrite or stricken with anything deeper than astonishment;
nor is it practicable in such a situation to fall upon one's knees,--if a genie were to feel
such an impulse of self-abasement. It was perhaps a comfort to all concerned, including a new-comer,
that Imogen should be reduced to the silence of sheer stupefaction; and as Sir Basil appeared
among them it was not at him, after her first wide glance, that she looked, but, still as if
through the crystal bottle, at her mother, and the look was, at all events, a confession of
utter inadequacy to deal with the situation in which she found herself.

It was Valerie, once more, who steered them all past the giddy whirlpool. Jack, beside her,
his heart and brain turning in dizzy circles, marveled at her steadiness of eye, her clearness
of voice. He would have liked to lean against a tree and get his breath; but this delicate
creature, rising from her rack, could move forward to her place beside the helm, and smile!

"Sir Basil," she said, and she put out her hand to him so mildly that Sir Basil may well have
thought his rather uncomfortable rendezvous redeemed into happiest convention, "here we all
are waiting for you, and here we are going to leave you, you and Imogen, to take a walk and
to say some of all the things you will have to say to each other. Give me your hand, Imogen.
There, dear friend, I think that it is yours, and I trust her life to you with, my blessing.
Now take your walk, I will wait for you, as late as you like, in the drawing-room."

So was the bottled genie released, so did it resume once more the figure of a girl, hardly
humbled, yet, it must be granted, deeply confused. In perfect silence Imogen walked away beside
her suitor, and it may be said that she never told him of the little episode that had preceded
his arrival. Jack and Valerie went slowly on toward the house. Now that she had grasped the
helm through the whirlpool he almost expected that she would fall upon the deck. But, silently,
she walked beside him, not taking his arm, wrapped closely in her shawl, and, once more inside
the dark drawing-room, she proceeded to light the candles on the mantel-piece, saying that
she would wait there until the others came in, smiling very faintly as she added:--"That everything
may be done properly and in order." Jack walked up and down the room, his hands deeply thrust
into the pockets of his dining-jacket.

"As for you, you had better go to bed," Valerie went on after a moment. She had placed the
candles on a table, taken a chair near them and chosen a review. She turned the pages while
she spoke.

At this, he, too, being disposed of, he stopped before her. "And you wanted me to be glad!"

Her eyes on the unseen print, she turned her pages, and now that they were out of the woods
and surrounded by walls and furniture and everyday symbols, he saw that the pressure of his
presence was heavier, and that she blushed a deep, weary blush. But she was able and willing
quite to dispose of him. "I want you to be glad," she answered.

"For her!"--For that creature!--his words implied.

"It was natural, what she thought," said Valerie after a moment, though not looking up.

"Natural!--To suspect you!"--

