The memory of so genial and popular a writer as Lover ought to be kept as green as possible,
and Mr. Symington has done well to embody his Loveriana in a short life of the Irish humorist.
The new material brought forth is slender, consisting simply of a few letters and ten short
poems, not of his best; but it was worth publishing, and Mr. Symington has the advantage, in
treating of Lover, of writing from personal knowledge. He has rather slurred over the earlier
part of Lover's career, apparently from a fear of trespassing on the preserves of a longer
biography previously published; which is a pity, as his sketch will have most interest for
readers who come fresh to the subject. Even those whose curiosity in regard to the writer has
not been stirred by reading his works may get a very good idea of them from the selections
printed here. The book is not a critical study: it enters into no details or analysis of Lover's
character. It is simply a hurried outline of his life, interspersed with songs and stories
which go a good way to make up for the meagreness of personal anecdote, and ending with some
friendly letters and short notes written by Lover during the last few years of his life and
addressed to Mr. Symington. Most of these letters were written in poor health from the Isle
of Wight or Jersey, to which places he was sent by the doctors. They are not of the brilliant
or gossipy order, but they are admirable in their good colloquial English and cheerful, unaffected
style. Lover was a man of great activity of mind, combined with warm affections. His life-story
was not very romantic, but it was a wholesome and pleasant one. When young he was deeply attached
to an English girl, with whom, though they were separated (Mr. Symington does not say from
what cause), he maintained through life a warm friendship. The young lady married, and Lover
consoled himself and was married twice, each time, it appears, very happily. His letters contain
many little domestic allusions, reporting his own occupations and those of "the good little
wife" at their fireside in Kent or away at the shore, where they look back with regret to their
own country-house. Lover had a warm attachment to home, the house as well as the inmates. "I
cannot tell you," he writes from the Isle of Wight, "how much I have been put off my balance
by my exile from my own house. For a time one is willing to make, for health's sake, a sacrifice
of domestic comfort and give up the pleasant habits one can indulge in in one's own home; but
to lead for months and months a lodging-house life is very miserable: it benumbs the best of
our faculties; the edge of enjoyment is blunted. Music is sweeter within the compass of your
own walls; the book is pleasanter taken from the familiar shelf of your own library; in one's
own studio the habit of happy occupation has made an atmosphere that has a charm in it."

Gifted with a rare variety of talents, Lover heartily enjoyed the exercise of each, and found
his chief pleasure in their development. He worked incessantly at painting, writing or musical
composition--worked for love of the work, not from uneasy effort or outside pressure. In this
respect he presents a happy contrast to his fellow-countryman and brother-humorist Charles
Lever, whose biography, published some months ago, left a painful impression on the mind in
its view of a man of genuine talent and attractive qualities living in a feverish way and writing
constantly against his inclination, too often below his powers. As writers the two stand side
by side. Lover had more versatility of talent, taking him partly outside the field of literature.
He made the most of his powers: nothing which he has written gives the idea that he might have
done it better. He was a poet, which Lever was not, and had an easy command of versification
and language. His songs, while they show no high poetic qualities, are excellent of their kind,
and his facility in turning an impromptu verse is shown in this scrap from the book before
us in praise of a friend and physician:

  Whene'er your vitality
  Is feeble in quality,
  And you fear a fatality
    May end the strife,
  Then Dr. Joe Dickson
  Is the man I would fix on
  For putting new wicks on
    The lamp of life.

In his stories Lover relied less on drollery of incident and indulged more in play upon words
than Lever, but the humor of both is essentially of the same kind and drawn from the same source.
Compared with much of our American humor, it has a spontaneousness, and above all a lovable
quality, that ours lacks. The boy who has laughed over Lorrequer and Handy Andy is apt to look
back at them not merely with amusement, but with a feeling of camaraderie and even tenderness.
He has laughed with them as well as at them--has somehow gained through the laughter a glimpse
of the writer which inspires liking and respect.

New England Bygones. By E.H. Arr. Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott & Co.

E.H. Arr has produced a very pleasant book by a simple effort of memory. By letting the mind's
eye travel back carefully and vigilantly over the scenes of a youth passed in a rural part
of New England, and taking notes of its journey, she has made a graphic picture of life in
that corner of the country forty years ago. Not a few men and women who were "raised" there
have carried away, bit for bit, the same reminiscences, so exactly does one New England landscape
resemble another, in details of foreground at least. The same description of orchard, stone
walls or old well will fit any farm in Maine or Massachusetts, and fond recollection sniffs
the same odor of sputtering doughnuts through the kitchen-door, whether it carries one back
to the Green hills or the White. Recollections are alike, but impressions differ, one class
of minds retaining the sense of bareness and gloom which is so continually insisted upon in
some New England books, and others, as in the book before us, dwelling lovingly upon the wholesome
flavor, pungent yet mellow, which gives New England country life a distinctive charm unlike
anything else either in this or the mother-country. Even the Sunday is pleasant to look back
upon to E.H. Arr; which is probably one instance of the fact that retrospective pleasure is
sometimes totally disproportionate to present enjoyment.

The author is more successful in her treatment of landscape than of figures. Her village people
are shown too much under one aspect: she possesses none of the humor which dares to take the
most opposite traits, the grotesque and the beautiful alike, and blend them in a sound, artistic
whole. Her characters are evidently drawn from life, but we miss the many little touches which
would make them alive. An essay on "Old Trees" contains some of the best work in the book,
with its charming sketch of an old orchard, bringing to view the twisted trees and even the
irregularities of the ground, and to the palate a sharp after-taste of yellowing apples picked
up from tufts of matted grass. After all, the New England of the writer's bygones does not
differ essentially from the New England of to-day, though a more vivid study of life would
perhaps have brought out more contrasts between the two.

Books Received.

Homo Sum: A Novel. By Georg Ebers. From the German by Clara Bell. New York: William S. Gottsberger.

Unto the Third and Fourth Generation: A Study. By Helen Campbell. New York: Fords, Howard &
Hulbert.

Allaooddeen, a Tragedy, and Other Poems. By the author of "Constance," etc. London: Smith,
Elder & Co.

Third-Term Politics: A Lecture. By Horace White. New York: Independent Republican Association.

The American Bicycler. By Charles E. Pratt. Illustrated. Boston: Press of Rockwell & Churchill.

