It will be seen that Karibu-sha-Shushinak takes a delight in enumerating the details of the
offerings he has ordained in honour of his city-god Shushinak, and this religious temper is
peculiarly characteristic of the princes of Elam throughout the whole course of their history.
Another interesting point to notice in the inscription is that, although the writer invokes
Shushinak, his own god, and puts his name at the head of the list of deities whose vengeance
he implores upon the impious, he also calls upon the gods of the Babylonians. As he wrote the
inscription itself in Babylonian, in the belief that it might be recovered by some future Semitic
inhabitant of his country, so he included in his imprecations those deities whose names he
conceived would be most reverenced by such a reader. In addition to Karibu-sha-Shushinak the
names of a number of other patesis, or viceroys, have recently been recovered, such as Khutran-tepti,
and Idadu I and his son Kal-Rukhu-ratir, and his grandson Idadu II. All these probably ruled
after Karibu-sha-Shushinak, and may be set in the early period of Babylonian supremacy in Elam.

It has been stated above that the allegiance which these early Elamite princes owed to their
overlords in Babylonia was probably reflected in the titles which they bear upon their inscriptions
recently found at Susa. These titles are "patesi of Susa, shakkannak of Elam," which may be
rendered as "viceroy of Susa, governor of Elam." But inscriptions have been found on the same
site belonging to another series of rulers, to whom a different title is applied. Instead of
referring to themselves as viceroys of Susa and governors of Elam, they bear the title of sukkal
of Elam, of Siparki, and of Susa. Siparki, or Sipar, was probably the name of an important
section of Elamite territory, and the title sukkalu, "ruler," probably carries with it an idea
of independence of foreign control which is absent from the title of patesi. It is therefore
legitimate to trace this change of title to a corresponding change in the political condition
of Elam; and there is much to be said for the view that the rulers of Elam who bore the title
of sukkalu reigned at a period when Elam herself was independent, and may possibly have exercised
a suzerainty over the neighbouring districts of Babylonia.

The worker of this change in the political condition of Elam and the author of her independence
was a king named Kutir-Nakhkhunte or Kutir-Na'khunde, whose name and deeds have been preserved
in later Assyrian records, where he is termed Kudur-Nankhundi and Kudur-Nakhundu.* This ruler,
according to the Assyrian king Ashur-bani-pal, was not content with throwing off the yoke under
which his land had laboured for so long, but carried war into the country of his suzerain and
marched through Babylonia devastating and despoiling the principal cities. This successful
Elamite campaign took place, according to the computation of the later Assyrian scribes, about
the year 2280 B. c, and it is probable that for many years afterwards the authority of the
King of Elam extended over the plains of Babylonia. It has been suggested that Kutir-Nakh-khunte,
after including Babylonia within his empire, did not remain permanently in Elam, but may have
resided for a part of each year, at least, in Lower Mesopotamia. His object, no doubt, would
have been to superintend in person the administration of his empire and to check any growing
spirit of independence among his local governors. He may thus have appointed in Susa itself
a local governor who would carry on the business of the country during his absence, and, under
the king himself, would wield supreme authority. Such governors may have been the sukkali,
who, unlike the patesi, were independent of foreign control, but yet did not enjoy the full
title of "king."

     * For references to the passages where the name occurs, see
     King, Letters of Hammurabi, vol. i, p. Ivy.

It is possible that the sukkalu who ruled in Elam during the reign of Kutir-Nakhkhunte was
named Temti-agun, for a short inscription of this ruler has been recovered, in which he records
that he built and dedicated a certain temple with the object of ensuring the preservation of
the life of Kutir-Na'khundi. If we may identify the Kutir-Va'khundi of this text with the great
Elamite conqueror, Kutir-Nakhkhunte, it follows that Temti-agun, the sukkal of Susa, was his
subordinate. The inscription mentions other names which are possibly those of rulers of this
period, and reads as follows: "Temti-agun, sukkal of Susa, the son of the sister of Sirukdu',
hath built a temple of bricks at Ishme-karab for the preservation of the life of Kutir-Na'khundi,
and for the preservation of the life of Lila-irtash, and for the preservation of his own life,
and for the preservation of the life of Temti-khisha-khanesh and of Pil-kishamma-khashduk."
As Lila-irtash is mentioned immediately after Kutir-Na'khundi, he was possibly his son, and
he may have succeeded him as ruler of the empire of Elam and Babylonia, though no confirmation
of this view has yet been discovered. Temti-khisha-khanesh is mentioned immediately after the
reference to the preservation of the life of Temti-agun himself, and it may be conjectured
that the name was that of Temti-agun's son, or possibly that of his wife, in which event the
last two personages mentioned in the text may have been the sons of Temti-agun.

This short text affords a good example of one class of votive inscriptions from which it is
possible to recover the names of Elamite rulers of this period, and it illustrates the uncertainty
which at present attaches to the identification of the names themselves and the order in which
they are to be arranged. Such uncertainty necessarily exists when only a few texts have been
recovered, and it will disappear with the discovery of additional monuments by which the results
already arrived at may be checked. We need not here enumerate all the names of the later Elamite
rulers which have been found in the numerous votive inscriptions recovered during the recent
excavations at Susa. The order in which they should be arranged is still a matter of considerable
uncertainty, and the facts recorded by them in such inscriptions as we possess mainly concern
the building and restoration of Elamite temples and the decoration of shrines, and they are
thus of no great historical interest. These votive texts are well illustrated by a remarkable
find of foundation deposits made last year by M. de Morgan in the temple of Shushinak at Susa,
consisting of figures and jewelry of gold and silver, and objects of lead, bronze, iron, stone,
and ivory, cylinder-seals, mace-heads, vases, etc. This is the richest foundation deposit that
has been recovered on any ancient site, and its archaeological interest in connection with
the development of Elamite art is great. But in no other way does the find affect our conception
of the history of the country, and we may therefore pass on to a consideration of such recent
discoveries as throw new light upon the course of history in Western Asia.

With the advent of the First Dynasty in Babylon Elam found herself face to face with a power
prepared to dispute her claims to exercise a suzerainty over the plains of Mesopotamia. It
is held by many writers that the First Dynasty of Babylon was of Arab origin, and there is
much to be said for this view. M. Pognon was the first to start the theory that its kings were
not purely Babylonian, but were of either Arab or Aramaean extraction, and he based his theory
on a study of the forms of the names which some of them bore. The name of Samsu-imna, for instance,
means "the sun is our god," but the form of the words of which the name is composed betray
foreign influence. Thus in Babylonian the name for "sun" or the Sun-god would be Shamash or
Shamshu, not Samsu; in the second half of the name, while ilu ("god") is good Babylonian, the
ending na, which is the pronominal suffix of the first person plural, is not Babylonian, but
Arabic. We need not here enter into a long philological discussion, and the instance already
cited may suffice to show in what way many of the names met in the Babylonian inscriptions
of this period betray a foreign, and possibly an Arabic, origin. But whether we assign the
forms of these names to Arabic influence or not, it may be regarded as certain that, the First
Dynasty of Babylon had its origin in the incursion into Babylonia of a new wave of Semitic
immigration.

The invading Semites brought with them fresh blood and unexhausted energy, and, finding many
of their own race in scattered cities and settlements throughout the country, they succeeded
in establishing a purely Semitic dynasty, with its capital at Babylon, and set about the task
of freeing the country from any vestiges of foreign control. Many centuries earlier Semitic
kings had ruled in Babylonian cities, and Semitic empires had been formed there. Sargon and
Narâm-Sin, having their capital at Agade, had established their control over a considerable
area of Western Asia and had held Elam as a province. But so far as Elam was concerned Kutir-Nakhkhunte
had reversed the balance and had raised Elam to the position of the predominant power.

Of the struggles and campaigns of the earlier kings of the First Dynasty of Babylon we know
little, for, although we possess a considerable number of legal and commercial documents of
the period, we have recovered no strictly historical inscriptions. Our main source of information
is the dates upon these documents, which are not dated by the years of the reigning king, but
on a system adopted by the early Babylonian kings from their Sumerian predecessors. In the
later periods of Babylonian history tablets were dated in the year of the king who was reigning
at the time the document was drawn up, but this simple system had not been adopted at this
early period. In place of this we find that each year was cited by the event of greatest importance
which occurred in that year. This event might be the cutting of a canal, when the year in which
this took place might be referred to as "the year in which the canal named Ai-khegallu was
cut;" or it might be the building of a temple, as in the date-formula, "the year in which the
great temple of the Moon-god was built;" or it might be "the conquest of a city, such as the
year in which the city of Kish was destroyed." Now it will be obvious that this system of dating
had many disadvantages. An event might be of great importance for one city, while it might
never have been heard of in another district; thus it sometimes happened that the same event
was not adopted throughout the whole country for designating a particular year, and the result
was that different systems of dating were employed in different parts of Babylonia. Moreover,
when a particular system had been in use for a considerable time, it required a very good memory
to retain the order and period of the various events referred to in the date-formulae, so as
to fix in a moment the date of a document by its mention of one of them. In order to assist
themselves in their task of fixing dates in this manner, the scribes of the First Dynasty of
Babylon drew up lists of the titles of the years, arranged in chronological order under the
reigns of the kings to which they referred. Some of these lists have been recovered, and they
are of the greatest assistance in fixing the chronology, while at the same time they furnish
us with considerable information concerning the history of the period of which we should otherwise
have been in ignorance.

From these lists of date-formulæ, and from the dates themselves which are found upon the legal
and commercial tablets of the period, we learn that Kish, Ka-sallu, and Isin all gave trouble
to the earlier kings of the First Dynasty, and had in turn to be subdued. Elam did not watch
the diminution of her influence in Babylonia without a struggle to retain it. Under Kudur-mabug,
who was prince or governor of the districts lying along the frontier of Elam, the Elamites
struggled hard to maintain their position in Babylonia, making the city of Ur the centre from
which they sought to check the growing power of Babylon. From bricks that have been recovered
from Mukayyer, the site of the city of Ur, we learn that Kudur-mabug rebuilt the temple in
that city dedicated to the Moon-god, which is an indication of the firm hold he had obtained
upon the city. It was obvious to the new Semitic dynasty in Babylon that, until Ur and the
neighbouring city of Larsam had been captured, they could entertain no hope of removing the
Elamite yoke from Southern Babylonia. It is probable that the earlier kings of the dynasty
made many attempts to capture them, with varying success. An echo of one of their struggles
in which they claimed the victory may be seen in the date-formula for the fourteenth year of
the reign of Sin-muballit, Hammurabi's father and predecessor on the throne of Babylon. This
year was referred to in the documents of the period as "the year in which the people of Ur
were slain with the sword." It will be noted that the capture of the city is not commemorated,
so that we may infer that the slaughter of the Elamites which is recorded did not materially
reduce their influence, as they were left in possession of their principal stronghold. In fact,
Elam was not signally defeated in the reign of Kudur-mabug, but in that of his son Rim-Sin.
From the date-formulæ of Hammurabi's reign we learn that the struggle between Elam and Babylon
was brought to a climax in the thirtieth year of his reign, when it is recorded in the formulas
that he defeated the Elamite army and overthrew Rim-Sin, while in the following year we gather
that he added the land of E'mutbal, that is, the western district of Elam, to his dominions.

An unpublished chronicle in the British Museum gives us further details of Hammurabi's victory
over the Elamites, and at the same time makes it clear that the defeat and overthrow of Rim-Sin
was not so crushing as has hitherto been supposed. This chronicle relates that Hammurabi attacked
Rim-Sin, and, after capturing the cities of Ur and Larsam, carried their spoil to Babylon.
Up to the present it has been supposed that Hammurabi's victory marked the end of Elamite influence
in Babylonia, and that thenceforward the supremacy of Babylon was established throughout the
whole of the country. But from the new chronicle we gather that Hammurabi did not succeed in
finally suppressing the attempts of Elam to regain her former position. It is true that the
cities of Ur and Larsam were finally incorporated in the Babylonian empire, and the letters
of Hammurabi to Sin-idinnam, the governor whom he placed in authority over Larsam, afford abundant
evidence of the stringency of the administrative control which he established over Southern
Babylonia. But Rîm-Sin was only crippled for the time, and, on being driven from Ur and Larsam,
he retired beyond the Elamite frontier and devoted his energies to the recuperation of his
forces against the time when he should feel himself strong enough again to make a bid for victory
in his struggle against the growing power of Babylon. It is probable that he made no further
attempt to renew the contest during the life of Hammurabi, but after Samsu-iluna, the son of
Hammurabi, had succeeded to the Babylonian throne, he appeared in Babylonia at the head of
the forces he had collected, and attempted to regain the cities and territory he had lost.

     Inscribed in the reign of Hammurabi with a deed recording
     the division of property. The actual tablet is on the right;
     that which appears to be another and larger tablet on the
     left is the hollow clay case in which the tablet on the
     right was originally enclosed. Photograph by Messrs. Mansell
     & Co.

The portion of the text of the chronicle relating to the war between Rîm-Sin and Samsu-iluna
is broken so that it is not possible to follow the campaign in detail, but it appears that
Samsu-iluna defeated Rim-Sin, and possibly captured him or burnt him alive in a palace in which
he had taken refuge.

With the final defeat of Rîm-Sin by Samsu-iluna it is probable that Elam ceased to be a thorn
in the side of the kings of Babylon and that she made no further attempts to extend her authority
beyond her own frontiers. But no sooner had Samsu-iluna freed his country from all danger from
this quarter than he found himself faced by a new foe, before whom the dynasty eventually succumbed.
This fact we learn from the unpublished chronicle to which reference has already been made,
and the name of this new foe, as supplied by the chronicle, will render it necessary to revise
all current schemes of Babylonian chronology. Samsu-iluna's new foe was no other than Iluma-ilu,
the first king of the Second Dynasty, and, so far from having been regarded as Samsu-iluna's
contemporary, hitherto it has been imagined that he ascended the throne of Babylon one hundred
and eighteen years after Samsu-iluna's death. The new information supplied by the chronicle
thus proves two important facts: first, that the Second Dynasty, instead of immediately succeeding
the First Dynasty, was partly contemporary with it; second, that during the period in which
the two dynasties were contemporary they were at war with one another, the Second Dynasty gradually
encroaching on the territory of the First Dynasty, until it eventually succeeded in capturing
Babylon and in getting the whole of the country under its control. We also learn from the new
chronicle that this Second Dynasty at first established itself in "the Country of the Sea,"
that is to say, the districts in the extreme south of Babylonia bordering on the Persian Gulf,
and afterwards extended its borders northward until it gradually absorbed the whole of Babylonia.
Before discussing the other facts supplied by the new chronicle, with regard to the rise and
growth of the Country of the Sea, whose kings formed the so-called "Second Dynasty," it will
be well to refer briefly to the sources from which the information on the period to be found
in the current histories is derived.

All the schemes of Babylonian chronology that have been suggested during the last twenty years
have been based mainly on the great list of kings which is preserved in the British Museum.
This document was drawn up in the Neo-Babylonian or Persian period, and when complete it gave
a list of the names of all the Babylonian kings from the First Dynasty of Babylon down to the
time in which it was written. The names of the kings are arranged in dynasties, and details
are given as to the length of their reigns and the total number of years each dynasty lasted.
The beginning of the list which gave the names of the First Dynasty is wanting, but the missing
portion has been restored from a smaller document which gives a list of the kings of the First
and Second Dynasties only. In the great list of kings the dynasties are arranged one after
the other, and it was obvious that its compiler imagined that they succeeded one another in
the order in which he arranged them. But when the total number of years the dynasties lasted
is learned, we obtain dates for the first dynasties in the list which are too early to agree
with other chronological information supplied by the historical inscriptions. The majority
of writers have accepted the figures of the list of kings and have been content to ignore the
discrepancies; others have sought to reconcile the available data by ingenious emendations
of the figures given by the list and the historical inscriptions, or have omitted the Second
Dynasty entirely from their calculations. The new chronicle, by showing that the First and
Second Dynasties were partly contemporaneous, explains the discrepancies that have hitherto
proved so puzzling.

It would be out of place here to enter into a detailed discussion of Babylonian chronology,
and therefore we will confine ourselves to a brief description of the sequence of events as
revealed by the new chronicle. According to the list of kings, Iluma-ilu's reign was a long
one, lasting for sixty years, and the new chronicle gives no indication as to the period of
his reign at which active hostilities with Babylon broke out. If the war occurred in the latter
portion of his reign, it would follow that he had been for many years organizing the forces
of the new state he had founded in the south of Babylonia before making serious encroachments
in the north; and in that case the incessant campaigns carried on by Babylon against Blam in
the reigns of Hammurabi and Samsu-iluna would have afforded him the opportunity of establishing
a firm foothold in the Country of the Sea without the risk of Babylonian interference. If,
on the other hand, it was in the earlier part of his reign that hostilities with Babylon broke
out, we may suppose that, while Samsu-iluna was devoting all his energies to crush Bim-Sin,
the Country of the Sea declared her independence of Babylonian control. In this case we may
imagine Samsu-iluna hurrying south, on the conclusion of his Elamite campaign, to crush the
newly formed state before it had had time to organize its forces for prolonged resistance.

Whichever of these alternatives eventually may prove to be correct, it is certain that Samsu-iluna
took the initiative in Babylon's struggle with the Country of the Sea, and that his action
was due either to her declaration of independence or to some daring act of aggression on the
part of this small state which had hitherto appeared too insignificant to cause Babylon any
serious trouble. The new chronicle tells us that Samsu-iluna undertook two expeditions against
the Country of the Sea, both of which proved unsuccessful. In the first of these he penetrated
to the very shores of the Persian Gulf, where a battle took place in which Samsu-iluna was
defeated, and the bodies of many of the Babylonian soldiers were washed away by the sea. In
the second campaign Iluma-ilu did not await Samsu-iluna's attack, but advanced to meet him,
and again defeated the Babylonian army. In the reign of Abêshu', Samsu-iluna's son and successor,
Iluma-ilu appears to have undertaken fresh acts of aggression against Babylon; and it was probably
during one of his raids in Babylonian territory that Abêshu' attempted to crush the growing
power of the Country of the Sea by the capture of its daring leader, Iluma-ilu himself. The
new chronicle informs us that, with this object in view, Abêshu' dammed the river Tigris, hoping
by this means to cut off Iluma-ilu and his army, but his stratagem did not succeed, and Iluma-ilu
got back to his own territory in safety.

The new chronicle does not supply us with further details of the struggle between Babylon and
the Country of the Sea, but we may conclude that all similar attempts on the part of the later
kings of the First Dynasty to crush or restrain the power of the new state were useless. It
is probable that from this time forward the kings of the First Dynasty accepted the independence
of the Country of the Sea upon their southern border as an evil which they were powerless to
prevent. They must have looked back with regret to the good times the country had enjoyed under
the powerful sway of Hammurabi, whose victorious arms even their ancient foes, the Blamites,
had been unable to withstand. But, although the chronicle does not recount the further successes
achieved by the Country of the Sea, it records a fact which undoubtedly contributed to hasten
the fall of Babylon and bring the First Dynasty to an end. It tells us that in the reign of
Samsu-ditana, the last king of the First Dynasty, the men of the land of Khattu (the Hittites
from Northern Syria) marched against him in order to conquer the land of Akkad; in other words,
they marched down the Euphrates and invaded Northern Babylonia. The chronicle does not state
how far the invasion was successful, but the appearance of a new enemy from the northwest must
have divided the Babylonian forces and thus have reduced their power of resisting pressure
from the Country of the Sea. Samsu-ditana may have succeeded in defeating the Hittites and
in driving them from his country; but the fact that he was the last king of the First Dynasty
proves that in his reign Babylon itself fell into the hands of the king of the Country of the Sea.

The question now arises, To what race did the people of the Country of the Sea belong? Did
they represent an advance-guard of the Kassite tribes, who eventually succeeded in establishing
themselves as the Third Dynasty in Babylon? Or were they the Elamites who, when driven from
Ur and Larsam, retreated southwards and maintained their independence on the shores of the
Persian Gulf? Or did they represent some fresh wave of Semitic immigration'? That they were
not Kassites is proved by the new chronicle which relates how the Country of the Sea was conquered
by the Kassites, and how the dynasty founded by Iluma-ilu thus came to an end. There is nothing
to show that they were Elamites, and if the Country of the Sea had been colonized by fresh
Semitic tribes, so far from opposing their kindred in Babylon, most probably they would have
proved to them a source of additional strength and support. In fact, there are indications
that the people of the Country of the Sea are to be referred to an older stock than the Elamites,
the Semites, or the Kassites. In the dynasty of the Country of the Sea there is no doubt that
we may trace the last successful struggle of the ancient Sumerians to retain possession of
the land which they had held for so many centuries before the invading Semites had disputed
its possession with them.

Evidence of the Sumerian origin of the kings of the Country of the Sea may be traced in the
names which several of them bear. Ishkibal, Grulkishar, Peshgal-daramash, A-dara-kalama, Akur-ul-ana,
and Melam-kur-kura, the names of some of them, are all good Sumerian names, and Shushshi, the
brother of Ishkibal, may also be taken as a Sumerian name. It is true that the first three
kings of the dynasty, Iluma-ilu, Itti-ili-nibi, and Damki-ilishu, and the last king of the
dynasty, Ea-gamil, bear Semitic Babylonian names, but there is evidence that at least one of
these is merely a Semitic rendering of a Sumerian equivalent. Iluma-ilu, the founder of the
dynasty, has left inscriptions in which his name is written in its correct Sumerian form as
Dingir-a-an, and the fact that he and some of his successors either bore Semitic names or appear
in the late list of kings with their Sumerian names translated into Babylonian form may be
easily explained by supposing that the population of the Country of the Sea was mixed and that
the Sumerian and Semitic tongues were to a great extent employed indiscriminately. This supposition
is not inconsistent with the suggestion that the dynasty of the Country of the Sea was Sumerian,
and that under it the Sumerians once more became the predominant race in Babylonia.

The new chronicle also relates how the dynasty of the Country of the Sea succumbed in its turn
before the incursions of the Kassites. We know that already under the First Dynasty the Kassite
tribes had begun to make incursions into Babylonia, for the ninth year of Samsu-iluna was named
in the date-formulae after a Kassite invasion, which, as it was commemorated in this manner
by the Babylonians, was probably successfully repulsed. Such invasions must have taken place
from time to time during the period of supremacy attained by the Country of the Sea, and it
was undoubtedly with a view to stopping such incursions--for the future that Ea-gamil--the
last king of the Second Dynasty, decided to invade Elam and conquer the mountainous districts
in which the Kassite tribes had built their strongholds. This Elamite campaign of Ea-gamil
is recorded by the new chronicle, which relates how he was defeated and driven from the country
by Ulam-Buriash, the brother of Bitiliash the Kassite. Ulam-Buriash did not rest content with
repelling Ea-gamil's invasion of his land, but pursued him across the border and succeeded
in conquering the Country of the Sea and in establishing there his own administration. The
gradual conquest of the whole of Babylonia by the Kassites no doubt followed the conquest of
the Country of the Sea, for the chronicle relates how the process of subjugation, begun by
Ulam-Buriash, was continued by his nephew Agum, and we know from the lists of kings that Ea-gamil
was the last king of the dynasty founded by Iluma-ilu. In this fashion the Second Dynasty was
brought to an end, and the Sumerian element in the mixed population of Babylonia did not again
succeed in gaining control of the government of the country.

It will be noticed that the account of the earliest Kassite rulers of Babylonia which is given
by the new chronicle does not exactly tally with the names of the kings of the Third Dynasty
as found upon the list of kings. On this document the first king of the dynasty is named Gandash,
with whom we may probably identify Ulam-Buriash, the Kassite conqueror of the Country of the
Sea; the second king is Agum, and the third is Bitiliashi. According to the new chronicle Agum
was the son of Bitiliashi, and it would be improbable that he should have ruled in Babylonia
before his father. But this difficulty is removed by supposing that the two names were transposed
by some copyist. The different names assigned to the founder of the Kassite dynasty may be
due to the existence of variant traditions, or Ulam-Buriash may have assumed another name on
his conquest of Babylonia, a practice which was usual with the later kings of Assyria when
they occupied the Babylonian throne.

The information supplied by the new chronicle with regard to the relations of the first three
dynasties to one another is of the greatest possible interest to the student of early Babylonian
history. We see that the Semitic empire founded at Babylon by Sumu-abu, and consolidated by
Hammurabi, was not established on so firm a basis as has hitherto been believed. The later
kings of the dynasty, after Elam had been conquered, had to defend their empire from encroachments
on the south, and they eventually succumbed before the onslaught of the Sumerian element, which
still remained in the population of Babylonia and had rallied in the Country of the Sea. This
dynasty in its turn succumbed before the invasion of the Kassites from the mountains in the
western districts of Elam, and, although the city of Babylon retained her position as the capital
of the country throughout these changes of government, she was the capital of rulers of different
races, who successively fought for and obtained the control of the fertile plains of Mesopotamia.

It is probable that the Kassite kings of the Third Dynasty exercised authority not only over
Babylonia but also over the greater part of Elam, for a number of inscriptions of Kassite kings
of Babylonia have been found by M. de Morgan at Susa. These inscriptions consist of grants
of land written on roughly shaped stone stelæ, a class which the Babylonians themselves called
kudurru, while they have been frequently referred to by modern writers as "boundary-stones."
This latter term is not very happily chosen, for it suggests that the actual monuments themselves
were set up on the limits of a field or estate to mark its boundary. It is true that the inscription
on a kudurru enumerates the exact position and size of the estate with which it is concerned,
but the kudurru was never actually used to mark the boundary. It was preserved as a title-deed,
in the house of the owner of the estate or possibly in the temple of his god, and formed his
charter or title-deed to which he could appeal in case of any dispute arising as to his right
of ownership. One of the kudurrus found by M. de Morgan records the grant of a number of estates
near Babylon by Nazimaruttash, a king of the Third or Kassite Dynasty, to the god Marduk, that
is to say they were assigned by the king to the service of E-sagila, the great temple of Marduk
at Babylon.

     Inscribed with a text of Nazimaruttash, a king of the Third
     or Kassite Dynasty, conferring certain estates near Babylon
     on the temple of Marduk and on a certain man named Kashakti-
     Shugab. The photograph is reproduced from M. de Morgan's
     Delegation en Perse, Mêm., t. ii, pi, 18.

All the crops and produce from the land were granted for the supply of the temple, which was
to enjoy the property without the payment of any tax or tribute. The text also records the
gift of considerable tracts of land in the same district to a private individual named Kashakti-Shugab,
who was to enjoy a similar freedom from taxation so far as the lands bestowed upon him were
concerned.

This freedom from taxation is specially enacted by the document in the words: "Whensoever in
the days that are to come the ruler of the country, or one of the governors, or directors,
or wardens of these districts, shall make any claim with regard to these estates, or shall
attempt to impose the payment of a tithe or tax upon them, may all the great gods whose names
are commemorated, or whose arms are portrayed, or whose dwelling-places are represented, on
this stone, curse him with an evil curse and blot out his name!"

Incidentally, this curse illustrates one of the most striking characteristics of the kudurrus,
or "boundary-stones," viz. the carved figures of gods and representations of their emblems,
which all of them bare in addition to the texts inscribed upon them. At one time it was thought
that these symbols were to be connected with the signs of the zodiac and various constellations
and stars, and it was suggested that they might have been intended to represent the relative
positions of the heavenly bodies at the time the document was drawn up. But this text of Nazimaruttash
and other similar documents that have recently been discovered prove that the presence of the
figures and emblems of the gods upon the stones is to be explained on another and far more
simple theory. They were placed there as guardians of the property to which the kudurru referred,
and it was believed that the carving of their figures or emblems upon the stone would ensure
their intervention in case of any attempted infringement of the rights and privileges which
it was the object of the document to commemorate and preserve. A photographic reproduction
of one side of the kudurru of Nazi-maruttash is shown in the accompanying illustration. There
will be seen a representation of Gula or Bau, the mother of the gods, who is portrayed as seated
on her throne and wearing the four-horned head-dress and a long robe that reaches to her feet.
In the field are emblems of the Sun-god, the Moon-god, Ishtar, and other deities, and the representation
of divine emblems and dwelling-places is continued on another face of the stone round the corner
towards which Grula is looking. The other two faces of the document are taken up with the inscription.

An interesting note is appended to the text inscribed upon the stone, beginning under the throne
and feet of Marduk and continuing under the emblems of the gods upon the other side. This note
relates the history of the document in the following words: "In those days Kashakti-Shugab,
the son of Nusku-na'id, inscribed (this document) upon a memorial of clay, and he set it before
his god. But in the reign of Marduk-aplu-iddina, king of hosts, the son of Melishikhu, King
of Babylon, the wall fell upon this memorial and crushed it. Shu-khuli-Shugab, the son of Nibishiku,
wrote a copy of the ancient text upon a new stone stele, and he set it (before the god)." It
will be seen, therefore, that this actual stone that has been recovered was not the document
drawn up in the reign of Nazimaruttash, but a copy made under Marduk-aplu-iddina, a later king
of the Third Dynasty. The original deed was drawn up to preserve the rights of Kashakti-Shugab,
who shared the grant of land with the temple of Marduk. His share was less than half that of
the temple, but, as both were situated in the same district, he was careful to enumerate and
describe the temple's share, to prevent any encroachment on his rights by the Babylonian priests.

It is probable that such grants of land were made to private individuals in return for special
services which they had rendered to the king. Thus a broken kudurru among M. de Morgan's finds
records the confirmation of a man's claims to certain property by Biti-liash II, the claims
being based on a grant made to the man's ancestor by Kurigalzu for services rendered to the
king during his war with Assyria. One of the finest specimens of this class of charters or
title-deeds has been found at Susa, dating from the reign of Melishikhu, a king of the Third
Dynasty. The document in question records a grant of certain property in the district of Bît-Pir-Shadû-rabû,
near the cities Agade and Dûr-Kurigalzu, made by Melishikhu to Marduk-aplu-iddina, his son,
who succeeded him upon the throne of Babylon. The text first gives details with regard to the
size and situation of the estates included in the grant of land, and it states the names of
the high officials who were entrusted with the duty of measuring them. The remainder of the
text defines and secures the privileges granted to Marduk-aplu-iddina together with the land,
and, as it throws considerable light upon the system of land tenure at the period, an extract
from it may here be translated:

"To prevent the encroachment on his land," the inscription runs, "thus hath he (i.e. the king)
established his (Marduk-aplu-iddina's) charter. On his land taxes and tithes shall they not
impose; ditches, limits, and boundaries shall they not displace; there shall be no plots, stratagems,
or claims (with regard to his possession); for forced labour or public work for the prevention
of floods, for the maintenance and repair of the royal canal under the protection of the towns
of Bit-Sikkamidu and Damik-Adad, among the gangs levied in the towns of the district of Ninâ-Agade,
they shall not call out the people of his estate; they are not liable to forced labour on the
sluices of the royal canal, nor are they liable for building dams, nor for closing the canal,
nor for digging out the bed thereof."

     Inscribed with a text of Melishikhu, one of the kings of the
     Third or Kassite Dynasty of Babylon, recording a grant of
     certain property to Marduk-aplu-iddina, his son The
     photograph is reproduced from M. de Morgan's Delegation en
     Perse, Mem., t. ii, pi. 24.

"A cultivator of his lands, whether hired or belonging to the estate, and the men who receive
his instructions (i.e. his overseers) shall no governor of Bît-Pir-Shadû-rabû cause to leave
his lands, whether by the order of the king, or by the order of the governor, or by the order
of whosoever may be at Bît-Pir-Shadû-rabû. On wood, grass, straw, corn, and every other sort
of crop, on his carts and yoke, on his ass and man-servant, shall they make no levy. During
the scarcity of water in the canal running between the Bati-Anzanim canal and the canal of
the royal district, on the waters of his ditch for irrigation shall they make no levy; from
the ditch of his reservoir shall they not draw water, neither shall they divert (his water
for) irrigation, and other land shall they not irrigate nor water therewith. The grass of his
lands shall they not mow; the beasts belonging to the king or to a governor, which may be assigned
to the district of Bît-Pir-Shadû-rabû, shall they not drive within his boundary, nor shall
they pasture them on his grass. To prevent encroachment on his land the king hath fixed the
privileges of his domain, and that which appertaineth unto it, and all that he hath granted
unto him; and in the presence of Shamash, and Marduk, and Anunitu, and the great gods of heaven
and earth, he hath inscribed them upon a stone, and he hath left it as an everlasting memorial
with regard to his estate."

The whole of the text is too long to quote, and it will suffice to note here that Melishikhu
proceeds to appeal to future kings to respect the land and privileges which he has granted
to his son, Marduk-aplu-iddina, even as he himself has respected similar grants made by his
predecessors on the throne; and the text ends with some very vivid curses against any one,
whatever his station, who should make any encroachments on the privileges granted to Marduk-aplu-iddina,
or should alter or do any harm to the memorial-stone itself. The emblems of the gods whom Melishikhu
invokes to avenge any infringement of his grant are sculptured upon one side of the stone,
for, as has already been remarked, it was believed that by carving them upon the memorial-stone
their help in guarding the stone itself and its enactments was assured.

From the portion of the text inscribed upon the stone which has just been translated it is
seen that the owner of land in Babylonia in the period of the Kassite kings, unless he was
granted special exemption, was liable to furnish forced labour for public works to the state
or to his district, to furnish grazing and pasture for the flocks and herds of the king or
governor, and to pay various taxes and tithes on his land, his water for irrigation, and his
crops. From the numerous documents of the First Dynasty of Babylon that have been recovered
and published within the last few years we know that similar customs were prevalent at that
period, so that it is clear that the successive conquests to which the country was subjected,
and the establishment of different dynasties of foreign kings at Babylon, did not to any appreciable
extent affect the life and customs of the inhabitants of the country or even the general character
of its government and administration. Some documents of a commercial and legal nature, inscribed
upon clay tablets during the reigns of the Kassite kings of Babylon, have been found at Nippur,
but they have not yet been published, and the information we possess concerning the life of
the people in this period is obtained indirectly from kudurrus or boundary-stones, such as
those of Nazimaruttash and Melishikhu which have been already described. Of documents relating
to the life of the people under the rule of the kings of the Country of the Sea we have none,
and, with the exception of the unpublished chronicle which has been described earlier in this
chapter, our information for this period is confined to one or two short votive inscriptions.
But the case is very different with regard to the reigns of the Semitic kings of the First
Dynasty of Babylon. Thousands of tablets relating to legal and commercial transactions during
this period have been recovered, and more recently a most valuable series of royal letters,
written by Hammurabi and other kings of his dynasty, has been brought to light.

     The stele is inscribed with his great code of laws. The Sun-
     god is represented as seated on a throne in the form of a
     temple façade, and his feet are resting upon the mountains.
     Photograph by Messrs. Mansell & Co.

Moreover, the recently discovered code of laws drawn up by Hammurabi contains information of
the greatest interest with regard to the conditions of life that were prevalent in Babylonia
at that period. From these three sources it is possible to draw up a comparatively full account
of early Babylonian life and customs.

CHAPTER VI--EARLY BABYLONIAN LIFE AND CUSTOMS

In tracing the ancient history of Mesopotamia and the surrounding countries it is possible
to construct a narrative which has the appearance of being comparatively full and complete.
With regard to Babylonia it may be shown how dynasty succeeded dynasty, and for long periods
together the names of the kings have been recovered and the order of their succession fixed
with certainty. But the number and importance of the original documents on which this connected
narration is based vary enormously for different periods. Gaps occur in our knowledge of the
sequence of events, which with some ingenuity may be bridged over by means of the native lists
of kings and the genealogies furnished by the historical inscriptions. On the other hand, as
if to make up for such parsimony, the excavations have yielded a wealth of material for illustrating
the conditions of early Babylonian life which prevailed in such periods. The most fortunate
of these periods, so far as the recovery of its records is concerned, is undoubtedly the period
of the Semitic kings of the First Dynasty of Babylon, and in particular the reign of its greatest
ruler, Hammurabi. When M. Maspero wrote his history, thousands of clay tablets, inscribed with
legal and commercial documents and dated in the reigns of these early kings, had already been
recovered, and the information they furnished was duly summarized by him.* But since that time
two other sources of information have been made available which have largely increased our
knowledge of the constitution of the early Babylonian state, its system of administration,
and the conditions of life of the various classes of the population.

     * Most of these tablets are preserved in the British Museum.
     The principal?works in which they have been published are
     Cuneiform Texts in the British Museum (1896, etc.),
     Strassmaier's Altbabylonischen Vertràge aus Warka, and
     Meissner's Beitràge zum altbabylonischen Privatrecht. A
     number of similar tablets of this period, preserved in the
     Pennsylvania Museum, will shortly be published by Dr. Ranke.

One of these new sources of information consists of a remarkable series of royal letters, written
by kings of the First Dynasty, which has been recovered and is now preserved in the British
Museum. The letters were addressed to the governors and high officials of various great cities
in Babylonia, and they contain the king's orders with regard to details of the administration
of the country which had been brought to his notice. The range of subjects with which they
deal is enormous, and there is scarcely one of them which does not add to our knowledge of
the period.* The other new source of information is the great code of laws, drawn up by Hammurabi
for the guidance of his people and defining the duties and privileges of all classes of his
subjects, the discovery of which at Susa has been described in a previous chapter. The laws
are engraved on a great stele of diorite in no less than forty-nine columns of writing, of
which forty-four are preserved,* and at the head of the stele is sculptured a representation
of the king receiving them from Shamash, the Sun-god.

     * See King, Letters and Inscriptions of Hammurabi, 3 vols.
     (1898-1900).

This code shows to what an extent the administration of law and justice had been developed
in Babylonia in the time of the First Dynasty. From the contracts and letters of the period
we already knew that regular judges and duly appointed courts of law were in existence, and
the code itself was evidently intended by the king to give the royal sanction to a great body
of legal decisions and enactments which already possessed the authority conferred by custom
and tradition. The means by which such a code could have come into existence are illustrated
by the system of procedure adopted in the courts at this period. After a case had been heard
and judgment had been given, a summary of the case and of the evidence, together with the judgment,
was drawn up and written out on tablets in due legal form and phraseology. A list of the witnesses
was appended, and, after the tablet had been dated and sealed, it was stored away among the
legal archives of the court, where it was ready for production in the event of any future appeal
or case in which the recorded decision was involved. This procedure represents an advanced
stage in the system of judicial administration, but the care which was taken for the preservation
of the judgments given was evidently traditional, and would naturally give rise in course of
time to the existence of a recognized code of laws.

Moreover, when once a judgment had been given and had been duly recorded it was irrevocable,
and if any judge attempted to alter such a decision he was severely punished. For not only
was he expelled from his judgment-seat, and debarred from exercising judicial functions in
the future, but, if his judgment had involved the infliction of a penalty, he was obliged to
pay twelve times the amount to the man he had condemned. Such an enactment must have occasionally
given rise to hardship or injustice, but at least it must have had the effect of imbuing the
judges with a sense of their responsibility and of instilling a respect for their decisions
in the minds of the people. A further check upon injustice was provided by the custom of the
elders of the city, who sat with the judge and assisted him in the carrying out of his duties;
and it was always open to a man, if he believed that he could not get justice enforced, to
make an appeal to the king. It is not our present purpose to give a technical discussion of
the legal contents of the code, but rather to examine it with the object of ascertaining what
light it throws upon ancient Babylonian life and customs, and the conditions under which the
people lived.

The code gives a good deal of information with regard to the family life of the Babylonians,
and, above all, proves the sanctity with which the marriage-tie was invested. The claims that
were involved by marriage were not lightly undertaken. Any marriage, to be legally binding,
had to be accompanied by a duly executed and attested marriage-contract. If a man had taken
a woman to wife without having carried out this necessary preliminary, the woman was not regarded
as his wife in the legal sense. On the other hand, when once such a marriage-contract had been
drawn up, its inviolability was stringently secured. A case of proved adultery on the part
of a man's wife was punished by the drowning of the guilty parties, though the husband of the
woman, if he wished to save his wife, could do so by an appeal to the king. Similarly, death
was the penalty for a man who ravished another man's betrothed wife while she was still living
in her father's house, but in this case the girl's innocence and inexperience were taken into
account, and no penalty was enforced against her and she was allowed to go free. Where the
adultery of a wife was not proved, and only depended on the accusation of the husband, the
woman could clear herself by swearing her own innocence; if, however, the accusation was not
brought by the husband himself, but by others, the woman could clear herself by submitting
to the ordeal by water; that is to say, she would plunge into the Euphrates; if the river carried
her away and she were drowned, it was regarded as proof that the accusation was well founded;
if, on the contrary, she survived and got safely to the bank, she was considered innocent and
was forthwith allowed to return to her household completely vindicated.

It will have been seen that the duty of chastity on the part of a married woman was strictly
enforced, but the husband's responsibility to properly maintain his wife was also recognized,
and in the event of his desertion she could under certain circumstances become the wife of
another man. Thus, if he left his city and fled from it of his own free will and deserted his
wife, he could not reclaim her on his return, since he had not been forced to leave the city,
but had done so because he hated it. This rule did not apply to the case of a man who was taken
captive in battle. In such circumstances the wife's action was to be guided by the condition
of her husband's affairs. If the captive husband possessed sufficient property on which his
wife could be maintained during his captivity in a strange land, she had no reason nor excuse
for seeking another marriage. If under these circumstances she became another man's wife, she
was to be prosecuted at law, and, her action being the equivalent of adultery, she was to be
drowned. But the case was regarded as altered if the captive husband had not sufficient means
for the maintenance of his wife during his absence. The woman would then be thrown on her own
resources, and if she became the wife of another man she incurred no blame. On the return of
the captive he could reclaim his wife, but the children of the second marriage would remain
with their own father. These regulations for the conduct of a woman, whose husband was captured
in battle, give an intimate picture of the manner in which the constant wars of this early
period affected the lives of those who took part in them.

Under the Babylonians at the period of the First Dynasty divorce was strictly regulated, though
it was far easier for the man to obtain one than for the woman. If we may regard the copies
of Sumerian laws, which have come down to us from the late Assyrian period, as parts of the
code in use under the early Sumerians, we must conclude that at this earlier period the law
was still more in favour of the husband, who could divorce his wife whenever he so desired,
merely paying her half a mana as compensation. Under the Sumerians the wife could not obtain
a divorce at all, and the penalty for denying her husband was death. These regulations were
modified in favour of the woman in Hammurabi's code; for under its provisions, if a man divorced
his wife or his concubine, he was obliged to make proper provision for her maintenance. Whether
she were barren or had borne him children, he was obliged to return her marriage portion; and
in the latter case she had the custody of the children, for whose maintenance and education
he was obliged to furnish the necessary supplies. Moreover, at the man's death she and her
children would inherit a share of his property. When there had been no marriage portion, a
sum was fixed which the husband was obliged to pay to his divorced wife, according to his status.
In cases where the wife was proved to have wasted her household and to have entirely failed
in her duty, her husband could divorce her without paying any compensation, or could make her
a slave in his house, and the extreme penalty for this offence was death. On the other hand,
a woman could not be divorced because she had contracted a permanent disease; and, if she desired
to divorce her husband and could prove that her past life had been seemly, she could do so,
returning to her father's house and taking her marriage portion with her.

It is not necessary here to go very minutely into the regulations given by the code with regard
to marriage portions, the rights of widows, the laws of inheritance, and the laws regulating
the adoption and maintenance of children. The customs that already have been described with
regard to marriage and divorce may serve to indicate the spirit in which the code is drawn
up and the recognized status occupied by the wife in the Babylonian household. The extremely
independent position enjoyed by women in the early Babylonian days is illustrated by the existence
of a special class of women, to which constant reference is made in the contracts and letters
of the period. When the existence of this class of women was first recognized from the references
to them in the contract-tablets inscribed at the time of the First Dynasty, they were regarded
as priestesses, but the regulations concerning them which occur in the code of Hammurabi prove
that their duties were not strictly sacerdotal, but that they occupied the position of votaries.
The majority of those referred to in the inscriptions of this period were vowed to the service
of E-bab-bara, the temple of the Sun-god at Sippara, and of E-sagila, the great temple of Marduk
at Babylon, but it is probable that all the great temples in the country had classes of female
votaries attached to them. From the evidence at present available it may be concluded that
the functions of these women bore no resemblance to that of the sacred prostitutes devoted
to the service of the goddess Ishtar in the city of Erech. They seem to have occupied a position
of great influence and independence in the community, and their duties and privileges were
defined and safeguarded by special legislation.

Generally they lived together in a special building, or convent, attached to the temple, but
they had considerable freedom and could leave the convent and also contract marriage. Their
vows, however, while securing them special privileges, entailed corresponding responsibilities.
Even when married a votary was still obliged to remain a virgin, and, should her husband desire
to have children, she could not bear them herself, but must provide him with a maid or concubine.
Also she had to maintain a high standard of moral conduct, for any breach of which severe penalties
were enforced. Thus, if a votary who was not living in the convent opened a beer-shop, or should
enter one for drink, she ran the risk of being put to death. But the privileges she enjoyed
were also considerable, for even when unmarried she enjoyed the status of a married woman,
and if any man slandered her he incurred the penalty of branding on the forehead. Moreover,
a married votary, though she could not bear her husband children, was secured in her position
as the permanent head of his household. The concubine she might give to her husband was always
the wife's inferior, even after bearing him children, and should the former attempt to put
herself on a level of equality with the votary, the latter might brand her as a slave and put
her with the female slaves. If the concubine proved barren she could be sold. The votary could
also possess property, and on taking her vows was provided with a portion by her father exactly
as though she were being given in marriage. Her portion was vested in herself and did not become
the property of the order of votaries, nor of the temple to which she was attached. The proceeds
of her property were devoted to her own maintenance, and on her father's death her brothers
looked after her interests, or she might farm the property out. Under certain circumstances
she could inherit property and was not obliged to pay taxes on it, and such property she could
bequeath at her own death; but upon her death her portion returned to her own family unless
her father had assigned her the privilege of bequeathing it. That the social position enjoyed
by a votary was considerable is proved by the fact that many women of good family, and even
members of the royal house, took vows. The existence of the order and its high repute indicate
a very advanced conception of the position of women among the early Babylonians.

From the code of Hammurabi we also gather considerable information with regard to the various
classes of which the community was composed and to their relative social positions. For the
purposes of legislation the community was divided into three main classes or sections, which
corresponded to well-defined strata in the social system. The lowest of these classes consisted
of the slaves, who must have formed a considerable portion of the population. The class next
above them comprised the large body of free men, who were possessed of a certain amount of
property but were poor and humble, as their name, muslikênu, implied. These we may refer to
as the middle class. The highest, or upper class, in the Babylonian community embraced all
the officers and ministers attached to the court, the higher officials and servants of the
state, and the owners of considerable lands and estates. The differences which divided and
marked off from one another the two great classes of free men in the population of Babylonia
is well illustrated by the scale of payments as compensation for injury which they were obliged
to make or were entitled to receive. Thus, if a member of the upper class were guilty of stealing
an ox, or a sheep, or an ass, or a pig, or a boat, from a temple or a private house, he had
to pay the owner thirty times its value as compensation, whereas if the thief were a member
of the middle class he only had to pay ten times its price, but if he had no property and so
could not pay compensation he was put to death. The penalty for manslaughter was less if the
assailant was a man of the middle class, and such a man could also divorce his wife more cheaply,
and was privileged to pay his doctor or surgeon a smaller fee for a successful operation.

But the privileges enjoyed by a man of the middle class were counterbalanced by a corresponding
diminution of the value at which his life and limbs were assessed. Thus, if a doctor by carrying
out an operation unskilfully caused the death of a member of the upper class, or inflicted
a serious injury upon him, such as the loss of an eye, the punishment was the amputation of
both hands, but no such penalty seems to have been exacted if the patient were a member of
the middle class. If, however, the patient were a slave of a member of the middle class, in
the event of death under the operation, the doctor had to give the owner another slave, and
in the event of the slave losing his eye, he had to pay the owner half the slave's value. Penalties
for assault were also regulated in accordance with the social position and standing of the
parties to the quarrel. Thus, if one member of the upper class knocked out the eye or the tooth
of one of his equals, his own eye or his own tooth was knocked out as a punishment, and if
he broke the limb of one of the members of his own class, he had his corresponding limb broken;
but if he knocked out the eye of a member of the middle class, or broke his limb, he suffered
no punishment in his own person, but was fined one mana of silver, and for knocking out the
tooth of such a man he was fined one-third of a mana. If two members of the same class were
engaged in a quarrel, and one of them made a peculiarly improper assault upon the other, the
assailant was only fined, the fine being larger if the quarrel was between members of the upper
class. But if such an assault was made by one man upon another who was of higher rank than
himself, the assailant was punished by being publicly beaten in the presence of the assembly,
when he received sixty stripes from a scourge of ox-hide. These regulations show the privileges
and responsibilities which pertained to the two classes of free men in the Babylonian community,
and they indicate the relative social positions which they enjoyed.

Both classes of free men could own slaves, though it is obvious that they were more numerous
in the households and on the estates of members of the upper class. The slave was the absolute
property of his master and could be bought and sold and employed as a deposit for a debt, but,
though slaves as a class had few rights of their own, in certain circumstances they could acquire
them. Thus, if the owner of a female slave had begotten children by her he could not use her
as the payment for a debt, and in the event of his having done so he was obliged to ransom
her by paying the original amount of the debt in money. It was also possible for a male slave,
whether owned by a member of the upper or of the middle class, to marry a free woman, and if
he did so, his children were free and did not become the property of his master. Also, if the
free woman whom the slave married brought with her a marriage portion from her father's house,
this remained her own property on the slave's death, and supposing the couple had acquired
other property during the time they lived together as man and wife, the owner of the slave
could only claim half of such property, the other half being retained by the free woman for
her own use and for that of her children.

Generally speaking, the lot of the slave was not a particularly hard one, for he was a recognized
member of his owner's household, and, as a valuable piece of property, it was obviously to
his owner's interest to keep him healthy and in good condition. In fact, the value of the slave
is attested by the severity of the penalty imposed for abducting a male or female slave from
the owner's house and removing him or her from the city; for a man guilty of this offence was
put to death. The same penalty was imposed for harbouring and taking possession of a runaway
slave, whereas a fixed reward was paid by the owner to any one by whom a runaway slave was
captured and brought back. Special legislation was also devised with the object of rendering
the theft of slaves difficult and their detection easy. Thus, if a brander put a mark upon
a slave without the owner's consent, he was liable to have his hands cut off, and if he could
prove that he did so through being deceived by another man, that man was put to death. For
bad offences slaves were liable to severe punishments, such as cutting off the ear, which was
the penalty for denying his master, and also for making an aggravated assault on a member of
the upper class of free men. But it is clear that on the whole the slave was well looked after.
He was also not condemned to remain perpetually a slave, for while still in his master's service
it was possible for him, under certain conditions, to acquire property of his own, and if he
did so he was able with his master's consent to purchase his freedom. If a slave were captured
by the enemy and taken to a foreign land and sold, and were then brought back by his new owner
to his own country, he could claim his liberty without having to pay any purchase-money to
either of his masters.

The code of Hammurabi also contains detailed regulations concerning the duties of debtors and
creditors, and it throws an interesting light on the commercial life of the Babylonians at
this early period. For instance, it reveals the method by which a wealthy man, or a merchant,
extended his business and obtained large profits by trading with other towns. This he did by
employing agents who were under certain fixed obligations to him, but acted independently so
far as their trading was concerned. From the merchant these agents would receive money or grain
or wool or oil or any sort of goods wherewith to trade, and in return they paid a fixed share
of their profits, retaining the remainder as the recompense for their own services. They were
thus the earliest of commercial travellers. In order to prevent fraud between the merchant
and the agent special regulations were framed for the dealings they had with one another. Thus,
when the agent received from the merchant the money or goods to trade with, it was enacted
that he should at the time of the transaction give a properly executed receipt for the amount
he had received. Similarly, if the agent gave the merchant money in return for the goods he
had received and in token of his good faith, the merchant had to give a receipt to the agent,
and in reckoning their accounts after the agent's return from his journey, only such amounts
as were specified in the receipts were to be regarded as legal obligations. If the agent forgot
to obtain his proper receipt he did so at his own risk.

     Dating from the period of the First Dynasty of Babylon.

Travelling at this period was attended with some risk, as it is in the East at the present
day, and the caravan with which an agent travelled was liable to attack from brigands, or it
might be captured by enemies of the country from which it set out. It was right that loss from
this cause should not be borne by the agent, who by trading with the goods was risking his
own life, but should fall upon the merchant who had merely advanced the goods and was safe
in his own city. It is plain, however, that disputes frequently arose in consequence of the
loss of goods through a caravan being attacked and robbed, for the code states clearly the
responsibility of the merchant in the matter. If in the course of his journey an enemy had
forced the agent to give up some of the goods he was carrying, on his return the agent had
to specify the amount on oath, and he was then acquitted of all responsibility in the matter.
If he attempted to cheat his employer by misappropriating the money or goods advanced to him,
on being convicted of the offence before the elders of the city, he was obliged to repay the
merchant three times the amount he had taken. On the other hand, if the merchant attempted
to defraud his agent by denying that the due amount had been returned to him, he was obliged
on conviction to pay the agent six times the amount as compensation. It will thus be seen that
the law sought to protect the agent from the risk of being robbed by his more powerful employer.

The merchant sometimes furnished the agent with goods which he was to dispose of in the best
markets he could find in the cities and towns along his route, and sometimes he would give
the agent money with which to purchase goods in foreign cities for sale on his return. If the
venture proved successful the merchant and his agent shared the profits between them, but if
the agent made bad bargains he had to refund to the merchant the value of the goods he had
received; if the merchant had not agreed to risk losing any profit, the amount to be refunded
to him was fixed at double the value of the goods advanced.

This last enactment gives an indication of the immense profits which were obtained by both
the merchant and the agent from this system of foreign trade, for it is clear that what was
regarded fair profit for the merchant was double the value of the goods disposed of. The profits
of a successful journey would also include a fair return to the agent for the trouble and time
involved in his undertaking. Many of the contract tablets of this early period relate to such
commercial journeys, which show that various bargains were made between the different parties
interested, and sometimes such contracts, or partnerships, were entered into, not for a single
journey only, but for long periods. We may therefore conclude that at the time of the First
Dynasty of Babylon, and probably for long centuries before that period, the great trade-routes
of the East were crowded with traffic. With the exception that donkeys and asses were employed
for beasts of burden and were not supplemented by horses and camels until a much later period,
a camping-ground in the desert on one of the great trade-routes must have presented a scene
similar to that of a caravan camping in the desert at the present day.

The rough tracks beaten by the feet of men and beasts are the same to-day as they were in that
remote period. We can imagine a body of these early travellers approaching a walled city at
dusk and hastening their pace to get there before the gates were shut. Such a picture as that
of the approach to the city of Samarra, with its mediaeval walls, may be taken as having had
its counterpart in many a city of the early Babylonians. The caravan route leads through the
desert to the city gate, and if we substitute two massive temple towers for the domes of the
mosques that rise above the wall, little else in the picture need be changed.

     A small caravan is here seen approaching the city at sunset
     before the gates are shut. Samarra was only founded in A. D.
     834, by the Khalif el-Motasim, the son of Harûn er-Rashîd,
     but customs in the East do not change, and the photograph
     may be used to illustrate the approach of an early
     Babylonian caravan to a walled city of the period.

The houses, too, at this period must have resembled the structures of unburnt brick of the
present day, with their flat mud tops, on which the inmates sleep at night during the hot season,
supported on poles and brushwood. The code furnishes evidence that at that time, also, the
houses were not particularly well built and were liable to fall, and, in the event of their
doing so, it very justly fixes the responsibility upon the builder. It is clear from the penalties
for bad workmanship enforced upon the builder that considerable abuses had existed in the trade
before the time of Hammurabi, and it is not improbable that the enforcement of the penalties
succeeded in stamping them out. Thus, if a builder built a house for a man, and his work was
not sound and the house fell and crushed the owner so that he died, it was enacted that the
builder himself should be put to death. If the fall of the house killed the owner's son, the
builder's own son was to be put to death.

If one or more of the owner's slaves were killed, the builder had to restore him slave for
slave. Any damage which the owner's goods might have suffered from the fall of the house was
to be made good by the builder. In addition to these penalties the builder was obliged to rebuild
the house, or any portion of it that had fallen through not being properly secured, at his
own cost. On the other hand, due provisions were made for the payment of the builder for sound
work; and as the houses of the period rarely, if ever, consisted of more than one story, the
scale of payment was fixed by the area of ground covered by the building.

     Situated on the right bank of the Tigris opposite the mounds
     which mark the site of the ancient city of Nineveh. The
     flat-roof ednouses which may be distinguished in the
     photograph are very similar in form and construction to
     those employed by the ancient Assyrians and Babylonians.

From the code of Hammurabi we also gain considerable information with regard to agricultural
pursuits in ancient Babylonia, for elaborate regulations are given concerning the landowner's
duties and responsibilities, and his relations to his tenants. The usual practice in hiring
land for cultivation was for the tenant to pay his rent in kind, by assigning a certain proportion
of the crop, generally a third or a half, to the owner. If a tenant hired certain land for
cultivation he was bound to till it and raise a crop, and should he neglect to do so he had
to pay the owner what was reckoned as the average rent of the land, and he had also to break
up the land and plough it before handing it back. As the rent of a field was usually reckoned
at harvest, and its amount depended on the size of the crop, it was only fair that damage to
the crop from flood or storm should not be made up by the tenant; thus it was enacted by the
code that any loss from such a cause should be shared equally by the owner of the field and
the farmer, though if the latter had already paid his rent at the time the damage occurred
he could not make a claim for repayment.

     Built on one of the mounds marking the site of the Assyrian
     city of Nineveh. The mosque in the photograph is built over
     the traditional site of the prophet Jonah's tomb. The flat-
     roofed houses of the modern dwellers on the mound can be
     well seen in the picture.

It is clear from the enactments of the code that disputes were frequent, not only between farmers
and landowners, but also between farmers and shepherds. It is certain that the latter, in the
attempt to find pasture for the flocks, often allowed their sheep to feed off the farmers'
fields in the spring. This practice the code set itself to prevent by fixing a scale of compensation
to be paid by any shepherd who caused his sheep to graze on cultivated land without the owner's
consent. If the offence was committed in the early spring, when the crop was still small, the
farmer was to harvest the crop and receive a considerable price in kind as compensation for
the shepherd. But if it occurred later on in the spring, when the sheep had been brought in
from the meadows and turned into the great common field at the city gate, the offence would
less probably be due to accident and the damage to the crop would be greater. In these circumstances
the shepherd had to take over the crop and pay the farmer very heavily for his loss.

     From a stone slab in the British Museum.

The planting of gardens and orchards was encouraged, and a man was allowed to use a field for
this purpose without paying a yearly rent. He might plant it and tend it for four years, and
in the fifth year of his tenancy the original owner of the field took half of the garden in
payment, while the other half the planter of the garden kept for himself. If a bare patch had
been left in the garden it was to be reckoned in the planter's half. Regulations were framed
to ensure the proper carrying out of the planting, for if the tenant neglected to do this during
the first four years, he was still liable to plant the plot he had taken without receiving
his half, and he had to pay the owner compensation in addition, which varied in amount according
to the original condition of the land. If a man hired a garden, the rent he paid to the owner
was fixed at two-thirds of its produce. Detailed regulations are also given in the code concerning
the hire of cattle and asses, and the compensation to be paid to the owner for the loss or
ill-treatment of his beasts. These are framed on the just principle that the hirer was responsible
only for damage or loss which he could have reasonably prevented. Thus, if a lion killed a
hired ox or ass in the open country, or if an ox was killed by lightning, the loss fell upon
the owner and not on the man who hired the beast. But if the hirer killed the ox through carelessness
or by beating it unmercifully, or if the beast broke its leg while in his charge, he had to
restore another ox to the owner in place of the one he had hired. For lesser damages to the
beast the hirer had to pay compensation on a fixed scale. Thus, if the ox had its eye knocked
out during the period of its hire, the man who hired it had to pay to the owner half its value;
while for a broken horn, the loss of the tail, or a torn muzzle, he paid a quarter of the value
of the beast.

Fines were also levied for carelessness in looking after cattle, though in cases of damage
or injury, where carelessness could not be proved, the owner of a beast was not held responsible.
A bull might go wild at any time and gore a man, however careful and conscientious the owner
might be, and in these circumstances the injured man could not bring an action against the
owner. But if a bull had already gored a man, and, although it was known to be vicious, the
owner had not blunted its horns or shut it up, in the event of its goring and killing a free
man, he had to pay half a mana of silver. One-third of a mana was the price paid for a slave
who was killed. A landed proprietor who might hire farmers to cultivate his fields inflicted
severe fines for acts of dishonesty with regard to the cattle, provender, or seed-corn committed
to their charge. If a man stole the provender for the cattle he had to make it good, and he
was also liable to the punishment of having his hands cut off. In the event of his being convicted
of letting out the oxen for hire, or stealing the seed-corn so that he did not produce a crop,
he had to pay very heavy compensation, and, if he could not pay, he was liable to be torn to
pieces by the oxen in the field he should have cultivated.

In a dry land like Babylonia, where little rain falls and that in only one season of the year,
the irrigation of his fields forms one of the most important duties of the agriculturist. The
farmer leads the water to his fields along small irrigation-canals or channels above the level
of the soil, their sides being formed of banks of earth. It is clear that similar methods were
employed by the early Babylonians. One such channel might supply the fields of several farmers,
and it was the duty of each man through whose land the channel flowed to keep its banks on
his land in repair. If he omitted to strengthen his bank or dyke, and the water forced a breach
and flooded his neighbour's field, he had to pay compensation in kind for any crop that was
ruined; while if he could not pay, he and his goods were sold, and his neighbours, whose fields
had been damaged through his carelessness, shared the money.

The land of Babylonian farmers was prepared for irrigation before it was sown by being divided
into a number of small square or oblong tracts, each separated from the others by a low bank
of earth, the seed being afterwards sown within the small squares or patches. Some of the banks
running lengthwise through the field were made into small channels, the ends of which were
carried up to the bank of the nearest main irrigation canal. No system of gates or sluices
was employed, and when the farmer wished to water one of his fields he simply broke away the
bank opposite one of his small channels and let the water flow into it. He would let the water
run along this small channel until it reached the part of his land he wished to water. He then
blocked the channel with a little earth, at the same time breaking down its bank so that the
water flowed over one of the small squares and thoroughly soaked it. When this square was finished
he filled up the bank and repeated the process for the next square, and so on until he had
watered the necessary portion of the field. When this was finished he returned to the main
channel and stopped the flow of the water by blocking up the hole he had made in the dyke.
The whole process was, and to-day still is, extremely simple, but it needs care and vigilance,
especially in the case of extensive irrigation when water is being carried into several parts
of an estate at once. It will be obvious that any carelessness on the part of the irrigator
in not shutting off the water in time may lead to extensive damage, not only to his own fields,
but to those of his neighbours. In the early Babylonian period, if a farmer left the water
running in his channel, and it flooded his neighbour's field and hurt his crop, he had to pay
compensation according to the amount of damage done.

It was stated above that the irrigation-canals and little channels were made above the level
of the soil so that the water could at any point be tapped and allowed to flow over the surrounding
land; and in a flat country like Babylonia it will be obvious that some means had to be employed
for raising the water from its natural level to the higher level of the land. As we should
expect, reference is made in the Babylonian inscriptions to irrigation-machines, and, although
their exact form and construction are not described, they must have been very similar to those
employed at the present day. The modern inhabitants of Mesopotamia employ four sorts of contrivances
for raising the water into their irrigation-channels; three of these are quite primitive, and
are those most commonly employed. The method which gives the least trouble and which is used
wherever the conditions allow is a primitive form of water-wheel. This can be used only in
a river with a good current. The wheel is formed of rough boughs and branches nailed together,
with spokes joining the outer rims to a roughly hewn axle. A row of rough earthenware cups
or bottles are tied round the outer rim for picking up the water, and a few rough paddles are
fixed so that they stick out beyond the rim. The wheel is then fixed in place near the bank
of the river, its axle resting in pillars of rough masonry.

As the current turns the wheel, the bottles on the rim dip below the surface and are raised
up full. At the top of the wheel is fixed a trough made by hollowing half the trunk of a date-palm,
and into this the bottles pour their water, which is conducted from the trough by means of
a small aqueduct into the irrigation-channel on the bank.

The convenience of the water-wheel will be obvious, for the water is raised without the labour
of man or beast, and a constant supply is secured day and night so long as the current is strong
enough to turn the wheel. The water can be cut off by blocking the wheel or tying it up. These
wheels are most common on the Euphrates, and are usually set up where there is a slight drop
in the river bed and the water runs swiftly over shallows. As the banks are very high, the
wheels are necessarily huge contrivances in order to reach the level of the fields, and their
very rough construction causes them to creak and groan as they turn with the current. In a
convenient place in the river several of these are sometimes set up side by side, and the noise
of their combined creakings can be heard from a great distance. Some idea of what one of these
machines looks like can be obtained from the illustration. At Hit on the Euphrates a line of
gigantic water-wheels is built across the river, and the noise they make is extraordinary.

Where there is no current to turn one of these wheels, or where the bank is too high, the water
must be raised by the labour of man or beast. The commonest method, which is the one employed
generally on the Tigris, is to raise it in skins, which are drawn up by horses, donkeys, or
cattle. A recess with perpendicular sides is cut into the bank, and a wooden spindle on wooden
struts is supported horizontally over the recess. A rope running over the spindle is fastened
to the skin, while the funnel end of the skin is held up by a second rope, running over a lower
spindle, until its mouth is opposite the trough into which the water is to be poured. The beasts
which are employed for raising the skin are fastened to the ends of the ropes, and they get
a good purchase for their pull by being driven down a short cutting or inclined plane in the
bank. To get a constant flow of water, two skins are usually employed, and as one is drawn
up full the other is let down empty.

The third primitive method of raising water, which is commoner in Egypt than in Mesopotamia
at the present day, is the shadduf, and is worked by hand. It consists of a beam supported
in the centre, at one end of which is tied a rope with a bucket or vessel for raising the water,
and at the other end is fixed a counterweight.* On an Assyrian bas-relief found at Kuyunjik
are representations of the shadduf in operation, two of them being used, the one above the
other, to raise the water to successive levels. These were probably the contrivances usually
employed by the early Babylonians for raising the water to the level of their fields, and the
fact that they were light and easily removed must have made them tempting objects to the dishonest
farmer. Hammurabi therefore fixed a scale of compensation to be paid to the owner by a detected
thief, which varied according to the class and value of the machine he stole. The rivers and
larger canals of Babylonia were used by the ancient inhabitants not only for the irrigation
of their fields, but also as waterways for the transport of heavy materials. The recently published
letters of Hammurabi and Abêshu' contain directions for the transportation of corn, dates,
sesame seed, and wood, which were ordered to be brought in ships to Babylon, and the code of
Hammurabi refers to the transportation by water of wool and oil. It is therefore clear that
at this period considerable use was made of vessels of different size for conveying supplies
in bulk by water. The method by which the size of such ships and barges was reckoned was based
on the amount of grain they were capable of carrying, and this was measured by the gur, the
largest measure of capacity. Thus mention is made in the inscriptions of vessels of five, ten,
fifteen, twenty, thirty, forty, fifty, sixty, and seventy-five gur capacity. A boat-builder's
fee for building a vessel of sixty gur was fixed at two shekels of silver, and it was proportionately
less for boats of smaller capacity. To ensure that the boat-builder should not scamp his work,
regulations were drawn up to fix on him the responsibility for unsound work. Thus if a boat-builder
were employed to build a vessel, and he put faulty work into its construction so that it developed
defects within a year of its being launched, he was obliged to strengthen and rebuild it at
his own expense.

     * The fourth class of machine for raising water employed in
     Mesopotamia at the present day consists of an endless chain
     of iron buckets running over a wheel. This is geared by
     means of rough wooden cogs to a horizontal wheel, the
     spindle of which has long poles fixed to it, to which horses
     or cattle are harnessed. The beasts go round in a circle and
     so turn the machine. The contrivance is not so primitive as
     the three described above, and the iron buckets are of
     European importation.

The hire of a boatman was fixed at six gur of corn to be paid him yearly, but it is clear that
some of the larger vessels carried crews commanded by a chief boatman, or captain, whose pay
was probably on a larger scale. If a man let his boat to a boatman, the latter was responsible
for losing or sinking it, and he had to replace it. A boatman was also responsible for the
safety of his vessel and of any goods, such as corn, wool, oil, or dates, which he had been
hired to transport, and if they were sunk through his carelessness he had to make good the
loss. If he succeeded in refloating the boat after it had been sunk, he was only under obligation
to pay the owner half its value in compensation for the damage it had sustained. In the case
of a collision between two vessels, if one was at anchor at the time, the owner of the other
vessel had to pay compensation for the boat that was sunk and its cargo, the owner of the latter
estimating on oath the value of what had been sunk. Boats were also employed as ferries, and
they must have resembled the primitive form of ferry-boat in use at the present day, which
is heavily built of huge timbers, and employed for transporting beasts as well as men across
a river.

     Employed for ferrying caravans across the river.

There is evidence that under the Assyrians rafts floated on inflated skins were employed for
the transport of heavy goods, and these have survived in the keleks of the present day. They
are specially adapted for the transportation of heavy materials, for they are carried down
by the current, and are kept in the course by means of huge sweeps or oars. Being formed only
of logs of wood and skins, they are not costly, for wood is plentiful in the upper reaches
of the rivers. At the end of their journey, after the goods are landed, they are broken up.
The wood is sold at a profit, and the skins, after being deflated, are packed on to donkeys
to return by caravan.

It is not improbable that such rafts were employed on the Tigris and the Euphrates from the
earliest periods of Chaldæan history, though boats would have been used on the canals and more
sluggish waterways.

In the preceding pages we have given a sketch of the more striking aspects of early Babylonian
life, on which light has been thrown by recently discovered documents belonging to the period
of the First Dynasty of Babylon. We have seen that, in the code of laws drawn up by Hammurabi,
regulations were framed for settling disputes and fixing responsibilities under almost every
condition and circumstance which might arise among the inhabitants of the country at that time;
and the question naturally arises as to how far the code of laws was in actual operation.

It is conceivable that the king may have held admirable convictions, but have been possessed
of little power to carry them out and to see that his regulations were enforced. Luckily, we
have not to depend on conjecture for settling the question, for Hammurabi's own letters which
are now preserved in the British Museum afford abundant evidence of the active control which
the king exercised over every department of his administration and in every province of his
empire. In the earlier periods of history, when each city lived independently of its neighbours
and had its own system of government, the need for close and frequent communication between
them was not pressing, but this became apparent as soon as they were welded together and formed
parts of an extended empire. Thus in the time of Sargon of Agade, about 3800 B.C., an extensive
system of royal convoys was established between the principal cities. At Telloh the late M.
de Sarzec came across numbers of lumps of clay bearing the seal impressions of Sargon and of
his son Narâm-Sin, which had been used as seals and labels upon packages sent from Agade to
Shirpurla. In the time of Dungi, King of Ur, there was a constant interchange of officials
between the various cities of Babylonia and Elam, and during the more recent diggings at Telloh
there have been found vouchers for the supply of food for their sustenance when stopping at
Shirpurla in the course of their journeys. In the case of Hammurabi we have recovered some
of the actual letters sent by the king himself to Sin-idinnam, his local governor in the city
of Larsam, and from them we gain considerable insight into the principles which guided him
in the administration of his empire.

The letters themselves, in their general characteristics, resembled the contract tablets of
the period which have been already described. They were written on small clay tablets oblong
in shape, and as they were only three or four inches long they could easily be carried about
the person of the messenger into whose charge they were delivered. After the tablet was written
it was enclosed in a thin envelope of clay, having been first powdered with dry clay to prevent
its sticking to the envelope. The name of the person for whom the letter was intended was written
on the outside of the envelope, and both it and the tablet were baked hard to ensure that they
should not be broken on their travels. The recipient of the letter, on its being delivered
to him, broke the outer envelope by tapping it sharply, and it then fell away in pieces, leaving
the letter and its message exposed. The envelopes were very similar to those in which the contract
tablets of the period were enclosed, of which illustrations have already been given, their
only difference being that the text of the tablet was not repeated on the envelope, as was
the case with the former class of documents.

The royal letters that have been recovered throw little light on military affairs and the prosecution
of campaigns, for, being addressed to governors of cities and civil officials, most of them
deal with matters affecting the internal administration of the empire. One letter indeed contains
directions concerning the movements of two hundred and forty soldiers of "the King's Company"
who had been stationed in Assyria, and another letter mentions certain troops who were quartered
in the city of Ur. A third deals with the supply of clothing and oil for a section of the Babylonian
army, and troops are also mentioned as having formed the escort for certain goddesses captured
from the Elamites; while directions are sent to others engaged in a campaign upon the Elamite
frontier. The letter which contains directions for the safe escort of the captured Elamite
goddesses, and the one ordering the return of these same goddesses to their own shrines, show
that foreign deities, even when captured from an enemy, were treated by the Babylonians with
the same respect and reverence that was shown by them to their own gods and goddesses. Hammurabi
gave directions in the first letter for the conveyance of the goddesses to Babylon with all
due pomp and ceremony, sheep being supplied for sacrifice upon the journey, and their usual
rites being performed by their own temple-women and priestesses. The king's voluntary restoration
of the goddesses to their own country may have been due to the fact that, after their transference
to Babylon, the army of the Babylonians suffered defeat in Elam. This misfortune would naturally
have been ascribed by the king and the priests to the anger of the Elamite goddesses at being
detained in a foreign land, and Hammurabi probably arrived at his decision that they should
be escorted back in the hope of once more securing victory for the Babylonian arms.

The care which the king exercised for the due worship of his own gods and the proper supply
of their temples is well illustrated from the letters that have been recovered, for he superintended
the collection of the temple revenues, and the herdsmen and shepherds attached to the service
of the gods sent their reports directly to him. He also took care that the observances of religious
rites and ceremonies were duly carried out, and on one occasion he postponed the hearing of
a lawsuit concerning the title to certain property which was in dispute, as it would have interfered
with the proper observance of a festival in the city of Ur. The plaintiff in the suit was the
chief of the temple bakers, and it was his duty to superintend the preparation of certain offerings
for the occasion. In order that he should not have to leave his duties, the king put off the
hearing of the case until after the festival had been duly celebrated. The king also exercised
a strict control over the priests themselves, and received reports from the chief priests concerning
their own subordinates, and it is probable that the royal sanction was obtained for all the
principal appointments. The guild of soothsayers was an important religious class at this time,
and they also were under the king's direct control. A letter written by Ammiditana, one of
the later kings of the First Dynasty, to three high officials of the city of Sippar, contains
directions with regard to certain duties to be carried out by the soothsayers attached to the
service of the city, and indicates the nature of their functions. Ammiditana wrote to the officials
in question, stating that there was a scarcity of corn in the city of Shagga, and he therefore
ordered them to send a supply thither. But before the corn was brought into the city they were
told to consult the soothsayers, who were to divine the future and ascertain whether the omens
were favourable. If they proved to be so, the corn was to be brought in. We may conjecture
that the king took this precaution, as he feared the scarcity of corn in Shagga was due to
the anger of some local deity or spirit, and that, if this were the case, the bringing in of
the corn would only lead to fresh troubles. This danger it was the duty of the soothsayers
to prevent.

Another class of the priesthood, which we may infer was under the king's direct control, was
the astrologers, whose duty it probably was to make reports to the king of the conjunctions
of the heavenly bodies, with a view to ascertaining whether they portended good or evil to
the state. No astrological reports written in this early period have been recovered, but at
a later period under the Assyrian empire the astrologers reported regularly to the king on
such matters, and it is probable that the practice was one long established. One of Hammurabi's
letters proves that the king regulated the calendar, and it is legitimate to suppose that he
sought the advice of his astrologers as to the times when intercalary months were to be inserted.
The letter dealing with the calendar was written to inform Sin-idinnam, the governor of Larsam,
that an intercalary month was to be inserted. "Since the year (i.e. the calendar) hath a deficiency,"
he writes, "let the month which is now beginning be registered as a second Elul," and the king
adds that this insertion of an extra month will not justify any postponement in the payment
of the regular tribute due from the city of Larsam, which had to be paid a month earlier than
usual to make up for the month that was inserted. The intercalation of additional months was
due to the fact that the Babylonian months were lunar, so that the calendar had to be corrected
at intervals to make it correspond to the solar year.

From the description already given of the code of laws drawn up by Hammurabi it will have been
seen that the king attempted to incorporate and arrange a set of regulations which should settle
any dispute likely to arise with regard to the duties and privileges of all classes of his
subjects. That this code was not a dead letter, but was actively administered, is abundantly
proved by many of the letters of Hammurabi which have been recovered. From these we learn that
the king took a very active part in the administration of justice in the country, and that
he exercised a strict supervision, not only over the cases decided in the capital, but also
over those which were tried in the other great cities and towns of Babylonia. Any private citizen
was entitled to make a direct appeal to the king for justice, if he thought he could not obtain
it in his local court, and it is clear from Hammurabi's letters that he always listened to
such an appeal and gave it adequate consideration. The king was anxious to stamp out all corruption
on the part of those who were invested with authority, and he had no mercy on any of his officers
who were convicted of taking bribes. On one occasion when he had been informed of a case of
bribery in the city of Dûr-gurgurri, he at once ordered the governor of the district in which
Dûr-gurgurri lay to investigate the charge and send to Babylon those who were proved to be
guilty, that they might be punished. He also ordered that the bribe should be confiscated and
despatched to Babylon under seal, a wise provision which must have tended to discourage those
who were inclined to tamper with the course of justice, while at the same time it enriched
the state. It is probable that the king tried all cases of appeal in person when it was possible
to do so. But if the litigants lived at a considerable distance from Babylon, he gave directions
to his local officials on the spot to try the case. When he was convinced of the justice of
any claim, he would decide the case himself and send instructions to the local authorities
to see that his decision was duly carried out. It is certain that many disputes arose at this
period in consequence of the extortions of money-lenders. These men frequently laid claim in
a fraudulent manner to fields and estates which they had received in pledge as security for
seed-corn advanced by them. In cases where fraud was proved Hammurabi had no mercy, and summoned
the money-lender to Babylon to receive punishment, however wealthy and powerful he might be.

A subject frequently referred to in Hammurabi's letters is the collection of revenues, and
it is clear that an elaborate system was in force throughout the country for the levying and
payment of tribute to the state by the principal cities of Babylonia, as well as for the collection
of rent and revenue from the royal estates and from the lands which were set apart for the
supply of the great temples. Collectors of both secular and religious tribute sent reports
directly to the king, and if there was any deficit in the supply which was expected from a
collector he had to make it up himself; but the king was always ready to listen to and investigate
a complaint and to enforce the payment of tribute or taxes so that the loss should not fall
upon the collector. But the palace hath exacted the full sum from me." It is probable that
both Enubi-Marduk and Gimil-Marduk were money-lenders, for we know from another letter that
the former had laid claim to certain property on which he had held a mortgage, although the
mortgage had been redeemed. In the present case they had probably lent money or seed-corn to
certain cultivators of land near Dûr-gurgurri and Rakhabu and along the Tigris, and in settlement
of their claims they had seized the crops and had, moreover, refused to pay to the king's officer
the proportion of the crops that was due to the state as taxes upon the land. The governor
of Larsam, the principal city in the district, had rightly, as the representative of the palace
(i.e. the king), caused the tax-collector to make up the deficiency, but Hammurabi, on receiving
the subordinate officer's complaint, referred the matter back to the governor. The end of the
letter is wanting, but we may infer that Hammurabi condemned the defaulting money-lenders to
pay the taxes due, and fined them in addition, or ordered them to be sent to the capital for
punishment.

On another occasion Sheb-Sin himself and a second tax-collector named Sin-mushtal appear to
have been in fault and to have evaded coming to Babylon when summoned thither by the king.
It had been their duty to collect large quantities of sesame seed as well as taxes paid in
money. When first summoned, they had made the excuse that it was the time of harvest and they
would come after the harvest was over. But as they did not then make their appearance, Hammurabi
wrote an urgent letter insisting that they should be despatched with the full amount of the
taxes due, in the company of a trustworthy officer who would see that they duly arrived at
the capital.

Tribute on flocks and herds was also levied by the king, and collectors or assessors of the
revenue were stationed in each district, whose duty it was to report any deficit in the revenue
accounts. The owners of flocks and herds were bound to bring the young cattle and lambs that
were due as tribute to the central city of the district in which they dwelt, and they were
then collected into large bodies and added to the royal flocks and herds; but, if the owners
attempted to hold back any that were due as tribute, they were afterwards forced to incur the
extra expense and trouble of driving the beasts to Babylon. The flocks and herds owned by the
king and the great temples were probably enormous, and yielded a considerable revenue in themselves
apart from the tribute and taxes due from private owners. Shepherds and herdsmen were placed
in charge of them, and they were divided into groups under chief shepherds, who arranged the
districts in which the herds and flocks were to be grazed, distributing them when possible
along the banks and in the neighbourhood of rivers and canals which would afford good pasturage
and a plentiful supply of water. The king received reports from the chief shepherds and herdsmen,
and it was the duty of the governors of the chief cities and districts of Babylonia to make
tours of inspection and see that due care was taken of the royal flocks and sheep. The sheep-shearing
for all the flocks that were pastured near the capital took place in Babylon, and the king
used to send out summonses to his chief shepherds to inform them of the day when the shearing
would take place; and it is probable that the governors of the other great cities sent out
similar orders to the shepherds of flocks under their charge. Royal and priestly flocks were
often under the same chief officer, a fact which shows the very strict control the king exercised
over the temple revenues.

The interests of the agricultural population were strictly looked after by the king, who secured
a proper supply of water for purposes of irrigation by seeing that the canals and waterways
were kept in a proper state of repair and cleaned out at regular intervals. There is also evidence
that nearly every king of the First Dynasty of Babylon cut new canals, and extended the system
of irrigation and transportation which had been handed down to him from his fathers. The draining
of the marshes and the proper repair of the canals could only be carried out by careful and
continuous supervision, and it was the duty of the local governors to see that the inhabitants
of villages and owners of land situated on the banks of a canal should keep it in proper order.
When this duty had been neglected complaints were often sent to the king, who gave orders to
the local governor to remedy the defect. Thus on one occasion it had been ordered that a canal
at Erech which had silted up should be deepened, but the dredging had not been carried out
thoroughly, so that the bed of the canal soon silted up again and boats were prevented from
entering the city. In these circumstances Hammurabi gave pressing orders that the obstruction
was to be removed and the canal made navigable within three days.

Damage was often done to the banks of canals by floods which followed the winter rains, and
a letter of Abêshu' gives an interesting account of a sudden rise of the water in the Irnina
canal so that it overflowed its banks. The king was building a palace at the city of Kâr-Irnina,
which was supplied by the Irnina canal, and every year it was possible to put so much work
into the building. But one year, when little more than a third of the year's work was done,
the building operations were stopped by flood, the canal having overflowed its banks so that
the water rose right up to the wall of the town. In return for the duty of keeping the canals
in order, the villagers along the banks had the privilege of fishing in its waters in the portion
which was in their charge, and any poaching by other villagers in this part of the stream was
strictly forbidden. On one occasion, in the reign of Samsu-iluna, Hammurabi's son and successor,
the fishermen of the district of Rabim went down in their boats to the district of Shakanim
and caught fish there contrary to the law. So the inhabitants of Shakanim complained of this
poaching to the king, who sent a palace official to the authorities of Sippar, near which city
the districts in question lay, with orders to inquire into the matter and take steps to prevent
all such poaching for the future.

The regulation of transportation on the canals was also under the royal jurisdiction. The method
of reckoning the size of ships has already been described, and there is evidence that the king
possessed numerous vessels of all sizes for the carrying of grain, wool, and dates, as well
as for the wood and stone employed in his building operations. Each ship seems to have had
its own crew, under the command of a captain, and it is probable that officials who regulated
the transportation from the centres where they were stationed were placed in charge of separate
sections of the rivers and of the canals.

It is obvious, from the account that has been given of the numerous operations directly controlled
and superintended by the king, that he had need of a very large body of officials, by whose
means he was enabled to carry out successfully the administration of the country. In the course
of the account we have made mention of the judges and judicial officers, the assessors and
collectors of revenue, and the officials of the palace who were under the king's direct orders.
It is also obvious that different classes of officers were in charge of all the departments
of the administration. Two classes of officials, who were placed in charge of the public works
and looked after and controlled the public slaves, and probably also had a good deal to do
with the collection of the revenue, had special privileges assigned to them, and special legislation
was drawn up to protect them in the enjoyment of the same. As payment for their duties they
were each granted land with a house and garden, they were assigned the use of certain sheep
and cattle with which to stock their land, and in addition they received a regular salary.
They were in a sense personal retainers of the king and were liable to be sent at any moment
on a special mission to carry out the king's commands. Disobedience was severely punished;
for, if such an officer, when detailed for a special mission, did not go but hired a substitute,
he was liable to be put to death and the substitute he had hired could take his office. Sometimes
an officer was sent for long periods some distance from his home to take charge of a garrison,
and when this was done his home duties were performed by another man, who temporarily occupied
his house and land, but gave it back to the officer on his return. If such an officer had a
son old enough to perform his duty in his father's absence, he was allowed to do so and to
till his father's lands; but if the son was too young, the substitute who took the officer's
place had to pay one-third of the produce of the land to the child's mother for his education.
Before departing on his journey to the garrison it was the officer's duty to arrange for the
proper cultivation of his land and the discharge of his local duties during his absence. If
he omitted to do so and left his land and duties neglected for more than a year, and another
had meanwhile taken his place, on his return he could not reclaim his land and office. It will
be obvious, therefore, that his position was a specially favoured one and much sought after,
and these regulations ensured that the duties attaching to the office were not neglected.

In the course of his garrison duty or when on special service, these officers ran some risk
of being captured by the enemy, and in that event regulations were drawn up for their ransom.
If the captured officer was wealthy and could pay for his own ransom, he was bound to do so,
but if he had not the necessary means his ransom was to be paid out of the local temple treasury,
and, when the funds in the temple treasury did not suffice, he was to be ransomed by the state.
It was specially enacted that his land and garden and house were in no case to be sold in order
to pay for his ransom. These were inalienably attached to the office which he held, and he
was not allowed to sell them or the sheep and cattle with which they were stocked. Moreover,
he was not allowed to bequeath any of this property to his wife or daughter, so that his office
would appear to have been hereditary and the property attached to it to have been entailed
on his son if he succeeded him. Such succession would not, of course, have taken place if the
officer by his own neglect or disobedience had forfeited his office and its privileges during
his lifetime.

It has been suggested with considerable probability that these officials were originally personal
retainers and follows of Sumu-abu, the founder of the First Dynasty of Babylon. They were probably
assigned lands throughout the country in return for their services to the king, and their special
duties were to preserve order and uphold the authority of their master. In the course of time
their duties were no doubt modified, but they retained their privileges and they must have
continued to be a very valuable body of officers, on whose personal loyalty the king could
always rely. In the preceding chapter we have already seen how grants of considerable estates
were made by the Kassite kings of the Third Dynasty to followers who had rendered conspicuous
services, and at the same time they received the privilege of holding such lands free of all
liability to forced labour and the payment of tithes and taxes. We may conclude that the class
of royal officers under the kings of the First Dynasty had a similar origin.

In the present chapter, from information recently made available, we have given some account
of the system of administration adopted by the early kings of Babylon, and we have described
in some detail the various classes of the Babylonian population, their occupations, and the
conditions under which they lived. In the two preceding chapters we have dealt with the political
history of Western Asia from the very earliest period of the Sumerian city-states down to the
time of the Kassite kings. In the course of this account we have seen how Mesopotamia in the
dawn of history was in the sole possession of the Sumerian race and how afterwards it fell
in turn under the dominion of the Semites and the kings of Elam. The immigration of fresh Semitic
tribes at the end of the third millennium before Christ resulted in the establishment in Babylon
of the Semitic kings who are known as First Dynasty kings; and under the sway of Hammurabi,
the greatest of this group of kings, the empire thus established in Western Asia had every
appearance of permanence. Although Elam no longer troubled Babylon, a great danger arose from
a new and unexpected quarter. In the Country of the Sea--which comprised the districts in the
extreme south of Babylonia on the shores of the Persian Gulf--the Sumerians had rallied their
forces, and they now declared themselves independent of Babylonian control. A period of conflict
followed between the kings of the First Dynasty and the kings of the Country of the Sea, in
which the latter more than held their own; and, when the Hittite tribes of Syria invaded Northern
Babylonia in the reign of Samsu-ditana, Babylon's power of resistance was so far weakened that
she fell an easy prey to the rulers of the Country of the Sea. But the reappearance of the
Sumerians in the rôle of leading race in Western Asia was destined not to last long, and was
little more than the last flicker of vitality exhibited by this ancient and exhausted race.
Thus the Second Dynasty fell in its turn before the onslaught of the Kassite tribes who descended
from the mountainous districts in the west of Elam, and, having overrun the whole of Mesopotamia,
established a new dynasty at Babylon, and adopted Babylonian civilization.

With the advent of the Kassite kings a new chapter opens in the history of Western Asia. Up
to that time Egypt and Babylon, the two chief centres of ancient civilization, had no doubt
indirectly influenced one another, but they had not come into actual contact. During the period
of the Kassite kings both Babylon and Assyria established direct relations with Egypt, and
from that time forward the influence they exerted upon one another was continuous and unbroken.
We have already traced the history of Babylon up to this point in the light of recent discoveries,
and a similar task awaits us with regard to Assyria. Before we enter into a discussion of Assyria's
origin and early history in the light of recent excavation and research, it is necessary that
we should return once more to Egypt, and describe the course of her history from the period
when Thebes succeeded in displacing Memphis as the capital city.

CHAPTER VII

TEMPLES AND TOMBS OF THEBES

We have seen that it was in the Theban period that Egypt emerged from her isolation, and for
the first time came into contact with Western Asia. This grand turning-point in Egyptian history
seemed to be the appropriate place at which to pause in the description of our latest knowledge
of Egyptian history, in order to make known the results of archaeological discovery in Mesopotamia
and Western Asia generally. The description has been carried down past the point of convergence
of the two originally isolated paths of Egyptian and Babylonian civilization, and what new
information the latest discoveries have communicated to us on this subject has been told in
the preceding chapters. We now have to retrace our steps to the point where we left Egyptian
history and resume the thread of our Egyptian narrative.

The Hyksos conquest and the rise of Thebes are practically contemporaneous. The conquest took
place perhaps three or four hundred years after the first advancement of Thebes to the position
of capital of Egypt, but it must be remembered that this position was not retained during the
time of the XIIth Dynasty. The kings of that dynasty, though they were Thebans, did not reign
at Thebes. Their royal city was in the North, in the neighbourhood of Lisht and Mêdûm, where
their pyramids were erected, and their chief care was for the lake province of the Fayyûm,
which was largely the creation of Amenemhat III, the Moeris of the Greeks. It was not till
Thebes became the focus of the national resistance to the Hyksos that its period of greatness
began. Henceforward it was the undisputed capital of Egypt, enlarged and embellished by the
care and munificence of a hundred kings, enriched by the tribute of a hundred conquered nations.

But were we to confine ourselves to the consideration only of the latest discoveries of Theban
greatness after the expulsion of the Hyksos, we should be omitting much that is of interest
and importance. For the Egyptians the first grand climacteric in their history (after the foundation
of the monarchy) was the transference of the royal power from Memphis and Herakleopolis to
a Theban house. The second, which followed soon after, was the Hyksos invasion. The two are
closely connected in Theban history; it is Thebes that defeated Herakleopolis and conquered
Memphis; it is Theban power that was overthrown by the Hyksos; it is Thebes that expelled them
and initiated the second great period of Egyptian history. We therefore resume our narrative
at a point before the great increase of Theban power at the time of the expulsion of the Hyksos,
and will trace this power from its rise, which followed the defeat of Herakleopolis and Memphis.
It is upon this epoch--the beginning of Theban power--that the latest discoveries at Thebes
have thrown some new light.

More than anywhere else in Egypt excavations have been carried on at Thebes, on the site of
the ancient capital of the country. And here, if anywhere, it might have been supposed that
there was nothing more to be found, no new thing to be exhumed from the soil, no new fact to
be added to our knowledge of Egyptian history. Yet here, no less than at Abydos, has the archaeological
exploration of the last few years been especially successful, and we have seen that the ancient
city of Thebes has a great deal more to tell us than we had expected.

The most ancient remains at Thebes were discovered by Mr. Newberry in the shape of two tombs
of the VIth Dynasty, cut upon the face of the well-known hill of Shêkh Abd el-Kûrna, on the
west bank of the Nile opposite Luxor. Every winter traveller to Egypt knows, well the ride
from the sandy shore opposite the Luxor temple, along the narrow pathway between the gardens
and the canal, across the bridges and over the cultivated land to the Ramesseum, behind which
rises Shêkh Abd el-Kûrna, with its countless tombs, ranged in serried rows along the scarred
and scarped face of the hill. This hill, which is geologically a fragment of the plateau behind
which some gigantic landslip was sent sliding in the direction of the river, leaving the picturesque
gorge and cliffs of Dêr el-Bahari to mark the place from which it was riven, was evidently
the seat of the oldest Theban necropolis. Here were the tombs of the Theban chiefs in the period
of the Old Kingdom, two of which have been found by Mr. Newberry. In later times, it would
seem, these tombs were largely occupied and remodelled by the great nobles of the XVIIIth Dynasty,
so that now nearly all the tombs extant on Shêkh Abd el-Kûrna belong to that dynasty.

Of the Thebes of the IXth and Xth Dynasties, when the Herakleopolites ruled, we have in the
British Museum two very remarkable statues--one of which is here illustrated--of the steward
of the palace, Mera. The tomb from which they came is not known. Both are very beautiful examples
of the Egyptian sculptor's art, and are executed in a style eminently characteristic of the
transition period between the work of the Old and Middle Kingdoms. As specimens of the art
of the Hierakonpolite period, of which we have hardly any examples, they are of the greatest
interest. Mera is represented wearing a different head-dress in each figure; in one he has
a short wig, in the other a skullcap.

When the Herakleopolite dominion was finally overthrown, in spite of the valiant resistance
of the princes of Asyût, and the Thebans assumed the Pharaonic dignity, thus founding the XIth
Dynasty, the Theban necropolis was situated in the great bay in the cliffs, immediately north
of Shêkh Abd el-Kûrna, which is known as Dêr el-Bahari. In this picturesque part of Western
Thebes, in many respects perhaps the most picturesque place in Egypt, the greatest king of
the XIth Dynasty, Neb-hapet-Râ Mentuhetep, excavated his tomb and built for the worship of
his ghost a funerary temple, which he called Akh-aset, "Glorious-is-its- Situation," a name
fully justified by its surroundings. This temple is an entirely new discovery, made by Prof.
Naville and Mr. Hall in 1903. The results obtained up to date have been of very great importance,
especially with regard to the history of Egyptian art and architecture, for our sources of
information were few and we were previously not very well informed as to the condition of art
in the time of the XIth Dynasty.

The new temple lies immediately to the south of the great XVIIIth Dynasty temple at Dêr el-Bahari,
which has always been known, and which was excavated first by Mariette and later by Prof. Naville,
for the Egypt Exploration Fund. To the results of the later excavations we shall return. When
they were finally completed, in the year 1898, the great XVIIIth Dynasty temple, which was
built by Queen Hatshepsu, had been entirely cleared of débris, and the colonnades had been
partially restored (under the care of Mr. Somers Clarke) in order to make a roof under which
to protect the sculptures on the walls. The whole mass of débris, consisting largely of fallen
talus from the cliffs above, which had almost hidden the temple, was removed; but a large tract
lying to the south of the temple, which was also covered with similar mounds of débris, was
not touched, but remained to await further investigation. It was here, beneath these heaps
of débris, that the new temple was found when work was resumed by the Egypt Exploration Fund
in 1903. The actual tomb of the king has not yet been revealed, although that of Neb-hetep
Mentuhetep, who may have been his immediate predecessor, was discovered by Mr. Carter in 1899.
It was known, however, and still uninjured in the reign of Ramses IX of the XXth Dynasty. Then,
as we learn from the report of the inspectors sent to examine the royal tombs, which is preserved
in the Abbott Papyrus, they found the pyramid-tomb of King Xeb-hapet-Râ which is in Tjesret
(the ancient Egyptian name for Dêr el-Bahari); it was intact. We know, therefore, that it was
intact about 1000 B.C. The description of it as a pyramid-tomb is interesting, for in the inscription
of Tetu, the priest of Akh-aset, who was buried at Abydos, Akh-aset is said to have been a
pyramid. That the newly discovered temple was called Akh-aset we know from several inscriptions
found in it. And the most remarkable thing about this temple is that in its centre there was
a pyramid. This must be the pyramid-tomb which was found intact by the inspectors, so that
the tomb itself must be close by. But it does not seem to have been beneath the pyramid, below
which is only solid rock. It is perhaps a gallery cut in the cliffs at the back of the temple.

The pyramid was then a dummy, made of rubble within a revetment of heavy flint nodules, which
was faced with fine limestone. It was erected on a pyloni-form base with heavy cornice of the
usual Egyptian pattern. This central pyramid was surrounded by a roofed hall or ambulatory
of small octagonal pillars, the outside wall of which was decorated with coloured reliefs,
depicting various scenes connected with the sed-heb or jubilee-festival of the king, processions
of the warriors and magnates of the realm, scenes of husbandry, boat-building, and so forth,
all of which were considered appropriate to the chapel of a royal tomb at that period. Outside
this wall was an open colonnade of square pillars. The whole of this was built upon an artificially
squared rectangular platform of natural rock, about fifteen feet high. To north and south of
this were open courts. The southern is bounded by the hill; the northern is now bounded by
the Great Temple of Hat-shepsu, but, before this was built, there was evidently a very large
open court here. The face of the rock platform is masked by a wall of large rectangular blocks
of fine white limestone, some of which measure six feet by three feet six inches. They are
beautifully squared and laid in bonded courses of alternate sizes, and the walls generally
may be said to be among the finest yet found in Egypt. We have already remarked that the architects
of the Middle Kingdom appear to have been specially fond of fine masonry in white stone. The
contrast between these splendid XIth Dynasty walls, with their great base-stones of sandstone,
and the bad rough masonry of the XVIIIth Dynasty temple close by, is striking. The XVIIIth
Dynasty architects and masons had degenerated considerably from the standard of the Middle Kingdom.

This rock platform was approached from the east in the centre by an inclined plane or ramp,
of which part of the original pavement of wooden beams remains in situ.

     Excavated by Mr. Hall, 1904, for the Egypt Exploration Fund.

To right and left of this ramp are colonnades, each of twenty-two square pillars, all inscribed
with the name and titles of Mentuhetep. The walls masking the platform in these colonnades
were sculptured with various scenes, chiefly representing boat processions and campaigns against
the Aamu or nomads of the Sinaitic peninsula. The design of the colonnades is the same as that
of the Great Temple, and the whole plan of this part, with its platform approached by a ramp
flanked by colonnades, is so like that of the Great Temple that we cannot but assume that the
peculiar design of the latter, with its tiers of platforms approached by ramps flanked by colonnades,
is not an original idea, but was directly copied by the XVIIIth Dynasty architects from the
older XIth Dynasty temple which they found at Dêr el-Bahari when they began their work.

     Excavated by M. Naville, 1896; repaired by Mr. Howard
     Carter, 1904.

The supposed originality of Hatshepsu's temple is then non-existent; it was a copy of the older
design, in fact, a magnificent piece of archaism. But Hatshepsu's architects copied this feature
only; the actual arrangements on the platforms in the two temples are as different as they
can possibly be. In the older we have a central pyramid with a colonnade round it, in the newer
may be found an open court in front of rock-cave shrines.

Before the XIth Dynasty temple was set up a series of statues of King Mentuhetep and of a later
king, Amenhetep I, in the form of Osiris, like those of Usertsen (Senusret) I at Lisht already
mentioned. One of these statues is in the British Museum. In the south court were discovered
six statues of King Usertsen (Senusret) III, depicting him at different periods of his life.
Pour of the heads are preserved, and, as the expression of each differs from that of the other,
it is quite evident that some show him as a young, others as an old, man.

     Of The XIth Dynasty Temple At Dee El-Bahari. About 2500 B.C.

The face is of the well-known hard and lined type which is seen also in the portraits of Amenemhat
III, and was formerly considered to be that of the Hyksos. Messrs. Newberry and Garstang, as
we have seen, consider it to be so, indirectly, as they regard the type as having been introduced
into the XIIth Dynasty by Queen Nefret, the mother of Usertsen (Sen-usret) III. This queen,
they think, was a Hittite princess, and the Hittites were practically the same thing as the
Hyksos. We have seen, however, that there is very little foundation for this view, and it is
more than probable that this peculiar physiognomy is of a type purely Egyptian in character.

     On The Platform Of The XIth Dynasty Temple, Der El-Bahari,
     1904.

On the platform, around the central pyramid, were buried in small chamber-tombs a number of
priestesses of the goddess Hathor, the mistress of the desert and special deity of Dêr el-Bahari.
They were all members of the king's harîm, and they bore the title of "King's Favourite." As
told in a previous chapter, all were buried at one time, before the final completion of the
temple, and it is by no means impossible that they were strangled at the king's death and buried
round him in order that their ghosts might accompany him in the next world, just as the slaves
were buried around the graves (or secondary graves) of the 1st Dynasty kings at Aby-dos. They
themselves, as also already related, took with them to the next world little waxen figures
which when called upon could by magic be turned into ghostly slaves. These images were ushabtiu,
"answerers," the predecessors of the little figures of wood, stone, and pottery which are found
buried with the dead in later times. The priestesses themselves were, so to speak, human ushabtiu,
for royal use only, and accompanied the kings to their final resting-place.

With the priestesses was buried the usual funerary furniture characteristic of the period.
This consisted of little models of granaries with the peasants bringing in the corn, models
of bakers and brewers at work, boats with their crews, etc., just as we find them in the XIth
and XIIth Dynasty tombs at el-Bersha and Beni Hasan. These models, too, were supposed to be
transformed by magic into actual workmen who would work for the deceased, heap up grain for
her, brew beer for her, ferry her over the ghostly Nile into the tomb-world, or perform any
other services required.

Some of the stone sarcophagi of the priestesses are very elaborately decorated with carved
and painted reliefs depicting each deceased receiving offerings from priests, one of whom milks
the holy cows of Hathor to give her milk. The sarcophagi were let down into the tomb in pieces
and there joined together, and they have been removed in the same way. The finest is a unique
example of XIth Dynasty art, and it is now preserved in the Museum of Cairo.

In memory of the priestesses there were erected on the platform behind the pyramid a number
of small shrines, which were decorated with the most delicately coloured carvings in high relief,
representing chiefly the same subjects as those on the sarcophagi. The peculiar style of these
reliefs was previously unknown. In connection with them a most interesting possibility presents
itself.

We know the name of the chief artist of Mentuhetep's reign. He was called Mertisen, and he
thus describes himself on his tombstone from Abydos, now in the Louvre: "I was an artist skilled
in my art. I knew my art, how to represent the forms of going forth and returning, so that
each limb may be in its proper place. I knew how the figure of a man should walk and the carriage
of a woman, the poising of the arm to bring the hippopotamus low, the going of the runner.
I knew how to make amulets, which enable us to go without fire burning us and without the flood
washing us away. No man could do this but I, and the eldest son of my body. Him has the god
decreed to excel in art, and I have seen the perfections of the work of his hands in every
kind of rare stone, in gold and silver, in ivory and ebony." Now since Mertisen and his son
were the chief artists of their day, it is more than probable that they were employed to decorate
their king's funerary chapel. So that in all probability the XIth Dynasty reliefs from Dêr
el-Bahari are the work of Mertisen and his son, and in them we see the actual "forms of going
forth and returning, the poising of the arm to bring the hippopotamus low, the going of the
runner," to which he refers on his tombstone. This adds a note of personal interest to the
reliefs, an interest which is often sadly wanting in Egypt, where we rarely know the names
of the great artists whose works we admire so much. We have recovered the names of the sculptor
and painter of Seti I's temple at Abydos and that of the sculptor of some of the tombs at Tell
el-Amarna, but otherwise very few names of the artists are directly associated with the temples
and tombs which they decorated, and of the architects we know little more. The great temple
of Dêr el-Bahari was, however, we know, designed by Senmut, the chief architect to Queen Hatshepsu.

It is noticeable that Mertisen's art, if it is Mertisen's, is of a peculiar character. It is
not quite so fully developed as that of the succeeding XIIth Dynasty. The drawing of the figures
is often peculiar, strange lanky forms taking the place of the perfect proportions of the IVth-VIth
and the XIIth Dynasty styles. Great elaboration is bestowed upon decoration, which is again
of a type rather archaic in character when compared with that of the XIIth Dynasty. We are
often reminded of the rude sculptures which used to be regarded as typical of the art of the
XIth Dynasty, while at the same time we find work which could not be surpassed by the best
XIIth Dynasty masters. In fact, the art of Neb-hapet-Râ's reign was the art of a transitional
period. Under the decadent Memphites of the VIIth and VIIIth Dynasties, Egyptian art rapidly
fell from the high estate which it had attained under the Vth Dynasty, and, though good work
was done under the Hierakonpolites, the chief characteristic of Egyptian art at the time of
the Xth and early XIth Dynasties is its curious roughness and almost barbaric appearance. When,
however, the kings of the XIth Dynasty reunited the whole land under one sceptre, and the long
reign of Neb-hapet-Râ Mentuhetep enabled the reconsolidation of the realm to be carried out
by one hand, art began to revive, and, just as to Neb-hapet-Râ must be attributed the renascence
of the Egyptian state under the hegemony of Thebes, so must the revival of art in his reign
be attributed to his great artists, Mertisen and his son. They carried out in the realm of
art what their king had carried out in the political realm, and to them must be attributed
the origin of the art of the Middle Kingdom which under the XIIth Dynasty attained so high
a pitch of excellence. The sculptures of the king's temple at Dêr el-Bahari, then, are monuments
of the renascence of Egyptian art, after the state of decadence into which it had fallen during
the long civil wars between South and North; it is a reviving art, struggling out of barbarism
to regain perfection, and therefore has much about it that seems archaic, stiff, and curious
when compared with later work. To the XVIIIth Dynasty Egyptian it would no doubt have seemed
hopelessly old-fashioned and even semi-barbarous, and he had no qualms about sweeping it aside
whenever it appeared in the way of the work of his own time; but to us this very strangeness
gives additional charm and interest, and we can only be thankful that Mertisen's work has lasted
(in fragments only, it is true) to our own day, to tell us the story of a little known chapter
in the history of ancient Egyptian art.

From this description it will have been seen that the temple is an important monument of the
Egyptian art and architecture of the Middle Kingdom. It is the only temple of that period of
which considerable traces have been found, and on that account the study of it will be of the
greatest interest. It is the best preserved of the older temples of Egypt, and at Thebes it
is by far the most ancient building recovered. Historically it has given us a new king of the
XIth Dynasty, Sekhâhe-tep-Râ Mentuhetep, and the name of the queen of Neb-hapet-Râ Mentuhetep,
Aasheit, who seems to have been an Ethiopian, to judge from her portrait, which has been discovered.
It is interesting to note that one of the priestesses was a negress.

The name Neb-hapet-Râ may be unfamiliar to those readers who are acquainted with the lists
of the Egyptian kings. It is a correction of the former reading, "Neb-kheru-Râ," which is now
known from these excavations to be erroneous. Neb-hapet-Râ (or, as he used to be called, Neb-kheru-Râ)
is Mentuhetep III of Prof. Petrie's arrangement. Before him there seem to have come the kings
Mentuhetep Neb-hetep (who is also commemorated in this temple) and Neb-taui-Râ; after him,
Sekhâhetep-Râ Mentuhetep IV and Seânkhkarâ Mentuhetep V, who were followed by an Antef, bearing
the banner or hawk-name Uah-ânkh. This king was followed by Amenemhat I, the first king of
the XIIth Dynasty. Antef Uah-ânkh may be numbered Antef I, as the prince Antefa, who founded
the XIth Dynasty, did not assume the title of king.

Other kings of the name of Antef also ruled over Egypt, and they used to be regarded as belonging
to the XIth Dynasty; but Prof. Steindorff has now proved that they really reigned after the
XIIIth Dynasty, and immediately before the Sekenenrâs, who were the fighters of the Hyksos
and predecessors of the XVIIIth Dynasty. The second names of Antef III (Seshes-Râ-up-maat)
and Antef IV (Seshes-Râ-her-her-maat) are exactly similar to those of the XIIIth Dynasty kings
and quite unlike those of the Mentuheteps; also at Koptos a decree of Antef II (Nub-kheper-Râ)
has been found inscribed on a doorway of Usertsen (Senusret) I; so that he cannot have preceded
him. Prof. Petrie does not yet accept these conclusions, and classes all the Antefs together
with the Mentuheteps in the XIth Dynasty. He considers that he has evidence from Herakleopolis
that Antef Xub-kheper-Râ (whom he numbers Antef V) preceded the XIIth Dynasty, and he supposes
that the decree of Nub-kheper-Râ at Koptos is a later copy of the original and was inscribed
during the XIIth Dynasty. But this is a difficult saying. The probabilities are that Prof.
Steindorff is right. Antef Uah-ânkh must, however, have preceded the XIIth Dynasty, since an
official of that period refers to his father's father as having lived in Uah-ânkh 's time.

The necropolis of Dêr el-Bahari was no doubt used all through the period of the XIth and XIIth
Dynasties, and many tombs of that period have been found there. A large number of these were
obliterated by the building of the great temple of Queen Hatshepsu, in the northern part of
the cliff-bay. We know of one queen's tomb of that period which runs right underneath this
temple from the north, and there is another that is entered at the south side which also runs
down underneath it. Several tombs were likewise found in the court between it and the XIth
Dynasty temple. We know that the XVIIIth Dynasty temple was largely built over this court,
and we can see now the XIth Dynasty mask-wall on the west of the court running northwards underneath
the mass of the XVIIIth Dynasty temple. In all probability, then, when the temple of Hatshepsu
was built, the larger portion of the Middle Kingdom necropolis (of chamber-tombs reached by
pits), which had filled up the bay to the north of the Mentuhetep temple, was covered up and
obliterated, just as the older VIth Dynasty gallery tombs of Shêkh Abd el-Kûrna had been appropriated
and altered at the same period.

The kings of the XIIth and XIIIth Dynasties were not buried at Thebes, as we have seen, but
in the North, at Dashûr, Lisht, and near the Fayymn, with which their royal city at Itht-taui
had brought them into contact. But at the end of the XIIIth Dynasty the great invasion of the
Hyksos probably occurred, and all Northern Egypt fell under the Arab sway. The native kings
were driven south from the Fayymn to Abydos, Koptos, and Thebes, and at Thebes they were buried,
in a new necropolis to the north of Dêr el-Bahari (probably then full), on the flank of a long
spur of hill which is now called Dra' Abu-'l-Negga, "Abu-'l-Negga's Arm." Here the Theban kings
of the period between the XIIIth and XVIIth Dynasties, Upuantemsaf, Antef Nub-kheper-Râ, and
his descendants, Antefs III and IV, were buried. In their time the pressure of foreign invasion
seems to have been felt, for, to judge from their coffins, which show progressive degeneration
of style and workmanship, poverty now afflicted Upper Egypt and art had fallen sadly from the
high standard which it had reached in the days of the XIth and XIIth Dynasties. Probably the
later Antefs and Sebekemsafs were vassals of the Hyksos. Their descendants of the XVIIth Dynasty
were buried in the same necropolis of Dra' Abu-'l-Negga, and so were the first two kings of
the XVIIIth Dynasty, Aahmes and Amenhetep I. The tombs of the last two have not yet been found,
but we know from the Abbott Papyrus that Amenhetep's was here, for, like that of Menttihetep
III, it was found intact by the inspectors. It was a gallery-tomb of very great length, and
will be a most interesting find when it is discovered, as it no doubt eventually will be. Aahmes
had a tomb at Abydos, which was discovered by Mr. Currelly, working for the Egypt Exploration
Fund. This, however, like the Abydene tomb of Usert-sen (Senusret) III, was in all likelihood
a sham or secondary tomb, the king having most probably been buried at Thebes, in the Dra'
Abu-'l-Negga. The Abydos tomb is of interesting construction. The entrance is by a simple pit,
from which a gallery runs round in a curving direction to a great hall supported by eighteen
square pillars, beyond which is a further gallery which was never finished. Nothing was found
in the tomb. On the slope of the mountain, due west of and in a line with the tomb, Mr. Currelly
found a terrace-temple analogous to those of Dêr el-Bahari, approached not by means of a ramp
but by stairways at the side. It was evidently the funerary temple of the tomb.

     Grandmother of Aahmes, the conqueror of the Hyksos and
     founder of the XVIIIth Dynasty. About 1700 B. C. British
     Museum. From the photograph by Messrs. Mansell & Co.

The secondary tomb of Usertsen (Senusret) III at Abydos, which has already been mentioned,
was discovered in the preceding year by Mr. A. E. P. Weigall, and excavated by Mr. Currelly
in 1903. It lies north of the Aahmes temple, between it and the main cemetery of Abydos. It
is a great bâb or gallery-tomb, like those of the later kings at Thebes, with the usual apparatus
of granite plugs, barriers, pits, etc., to defy plunderers. The tomb had been plundered, nevertheless,
though it is probable that the robbers were vastly disappointed with what they found in it.
Mr. Currelly ascribes the absence of all remains to the plunderers, but the fact is that there
probably never was anything in it but an empty sarcophagus. Near the tomb Mr. Weigall discovered
some dummy mastabas, a find of great interest. Just as the king had a secondary tomb, so secondary
mastabas, mere dummies of rubble like the XIth Dynasty pyramid at Dêr el-Bahari, were erected
beside it to look like the tombs of his courtiers. Some curious sinuous brick walls which appear
to act as dividing lines form a remarkable feature of this sham cemetery. In a line with the
tomb, on the edge of the cultivation, is the funerary temple belonging to it, which was found
by Mr. Randall-Maclver in 1900. Nothing remains but the bases of the fluted limestone columns
and some brick walls. A headless statue of Usertsen was found.

We have an interesting example of the custom of building a secondary tomb for royalties in
these two nécropoles of Dra' Abu-'l-Negga and Abydos. Queen Teta-shera, the grandmother of
Aahmes, a beautiful statuette of whom may be seen in the British Museum, had a small pyramid
at Abydos, eastward of and in a line with the temple and secondary tomb of Aahmes. In 1901
Mr. Mace attempted to find the chamber, but could not. In the next year Mr. Currelly found
between it and the Aahmes tomb a small chapel, containing a splendid stele, on which Aahmes
commemorates his grandmother, who, he says, was buried at Thebes and had a mer-âhât at Abydos,
and he records his determination to build her also a pyramid at Abydos, out of his love and
veneration for her memory. It thus appeared that the pyramid to the east was simply a dummy,
like Usertsen's mastabas, or the Mentuhetep pyramid at Dêr el-Bahari. Teta-shera was actually
buried at Dra' Abu-'l-Negga. Her secondary pyramid, like that of Aahmes himself, was in the
"holy ground" at Abydos, though it was not an imitation bâb, but a dummy pyramid of rubble.
This well illustrates the whole custom of the royal primary and secondary tombs, which, as
we have seen, had obtained in the case of royal personages from the time of the 1st Dynasty,
when Aha had two tombs, one at Nakâda and the other at Abydos. It is probable that all the
1st Dynasty tombs at Abydos are secondary, the kings being really buried elsewhere. After their
time we know for certain that Tjeser and Snefru had duplicate tombs, possibly also Unas, and
certainly Usertsen (Senusret) III, Amenemhat III, and Aahmes; while Mentuhetep III and Queen
Teta-shera had dummy pyramids as well as their tombs. Ramses III also had two tombs, both at
Thebes. The reasons for this custom were two: first, the desire to elude plunderers, and second,
the wish to give the ghost a pied-à-terre on the sacred soil of Abydos or Sakkâra.

As the inscription of Aahmes which records the building of the dummy pyramid of Teta-shera
is of considerable interest, it may here be translated. The text reads: "It came to pass that
when his Majesty the king, even the king of South and North, Neb-pehti-Râ, Son of the Sun,
Aahmes, Giver of Life, was taking his pleasure in the tjadu-hall, the hereditary princess greatly
favoured and greatly prized, the king's daughter, the king's sister, the god's wife and great
wife of the king, Nefret-ari-Aahmes, the living, was in the presence of his Majesty. And the
one spake unto the other, seeking to do honour to These There,* which consisteth in the pouring
of water, the offering upon the altar, the painting of the stele at the beginning of each season,
at the Festival of the New Moon, at the feast of the month, the feast of the going-forth of
the Sem-priest, the Ceremonies of the Night, the Feasts of the Fifth Day of the Month and of
the Sixth, the Hak-festival, the Uag-festival, the feast of Thoth, the beginning of every season
of heaven and earth. And his sister spake, answering him: 'Why hath one remembered these matters,
and wherefore hath this word been said? Prithee, what hath come into thy heart?' The king spake,
saying: 'As for me, I have remembered the mother of my mother, the mother of my father, the
king's great wife and king's mother Teta-shera, deceased, whose tomb-chamber and mer-ahât are
at this moment upon the soil of Thebes and Abydos. I have spoken thus unto thee because my
Majesty desireth to cause a pyramid and chapel to be made for her in the Sacred Land, as a
gift of a monument from my Majesty, and that its lake should be dug, its trees planted, and
its offerings prescribed; that it should be provided with slaves, furnished with lands, and
endowed with cattle, with hen-ka priests and kher-heb priests performing their duties, each
man knowing what he hath to do.' Behold! when his Majesty had thus spoken, these things were
immediately carried out. His Majesty did these things on account of the greatness of the love
which he bore her, which was greater than anything. Never had ancestral kings done the like
for their mothers. Behold! his Majesty extended his arm and bent his hand, and made for her
the king's offering to Geb, to the Ennead of Gods, to the lesser Ennead of Gods... [to Anubis]
in the God's Shrine, thousands of offerings of bread, beer, oxen, geese, cattle... to [the
Queen Teta-shera]." This is one of the most interesting inscriptions discovered in Egypt in
recent years, for the picturesqueness of its diction is unusual.

     * A polite periphrasis for the dead.

As has already been said, the king Amenhetep I was also buried in the Dra' Abu-'l-Negga, but
the tomb has not yet been found. Amenhetep I and his mother, Queen Nefret-ari-Aahmes, who is
mentioned in the inscription translated above, were both venerated as tutelary demons of the
Western Necropolis of Thebes after their deaths, as also was Mentuhetep III. At Dêr el-Bahari
both kings seem to have been worshipped with Hathor, the Mistress of the Waste. The worship
of Amen-Râ in the XVIIIth Dynasty temple of Dêr el-Bahari was a novelty introduced by the priests
of Amen at that time. But the worship of Hathor went on side by side with that of Amen in a
chapel with a rock-cut shrine at the side of the Great Temple. Very possibly this was the original
cave-shrine of Hathor, long before Mentuhetep's time, and was incorporated with the Great Temple
and beautified with the addition of a pillared hall before it, built over part of the XIth
Dynasty north court and wall, by Hatshepsu's architects.

The Great Temple, the excavation of which for the Egypt Exploration Fund was successfully brought
to an end by Prof. Naville in 1898, was erected by Queen Hatshepsu in honour of Amen-Râ, her
father Thothmes I, and her brother-husband Thothmes II, and received a few additions from Thothmes
III, her successor. He, however, did not complete it, and it fell into disrepair, besides suffering
from the iconoclastic zeal of the heretic Akhunaten, who hammered out some of the beautifully
painted scenes upon its walls. These were badly restored by Ramses II, whose painting is easily
distinguished from the original work by the dulness and badness of its colour.

The peculiar plan and other remarkable characteristics of this temple are well known. Its great
terraces, with the ramps leading up to them, flanked by colonnades, which, as we have seen,
were imitated from the design of the old XIth Dynasty temple at its side, are familiar from
a hundred illustrations, and the marvellously preserved colouring of its delicate reliefs is
known to every winter visitor to Egypt, and can be realized by those who have never been there
through the medium of Mr. Howard Carter's wonderful coloured reproductions, published in Prof.
Naville's edition of the temple by the Egypt Exploration Fund. The Great Temple stands to-day
clear of all the débris which used to cover it, a lasting monument to the work of the greatest
of the societies which busy themselves with the unearthing of the relics of the ancient world.

 Excavated by
Prof. Nayille, 1893-8 and 1903-6, for the Egypt Exploration Fund

The two temples of Dêr el-Bahari will soon stand side by side, as they originally stood, and
will always be associated with the name of the society which rescued them from oblivion, and
gave us the treasures of the royal tombs at Abydos. The names of the two men whom the Egypt
Exploration Fund commissioned to excavate Dêr el-Bahari and Abydos, and for whose work it exclusively
supplied the funds, Profs. Naville and Petrie, will live chiefly in connection with their work
at Dêr el-Bahari and Abydos.

The Egyptians called the two temples Tjeserti, "the two holy places," the new building receiving
the name of Tjeser-tjesru, "Holy of Holies," and the whole tract of Dêr el-Bahari the appellation
Tjesret, "the Holy." The extraordinary beauty of the situation in which they are placed, with
its huge cliffs and rugged hillsides, may be appreciated from the photograph which is taken
from a steep path half-way up the cliff above the Great Temple. In it we see the Great Temple
in the foreground with the modern roofs of two of its colonnades, devised in order to protect
the sculptures beneath them, the great trilithon gate leading to the upper court, and the entrance
to the cave-shrine of Amen-Râ, with the niches of the kings on either side, immediately at
the foot of the cliff. In the middle distance is the duller form of the XIth Dynasty temple,
with its rectangular platform, the ramp leading up to it, and the pyramid in the centre of
it, surrounded by pillars, half-emerging from the great heaps of sand and débris all around.
The background of cliffs and hills, as seen in the photograph, will serve to give some idea
of the beauty of the surroundings,--an arid beauty, it is true, for all is desert. There is
not a blade of vegetation near; all is salmon-red in colour beneath a sky of ineffable blue,
and against the red cliffs the white temple stands out in vivid contrast.

The second illustration gives a nearer view of the great trilithon gate in the upper court,
at the head of the ramp. The long hill of Dra' Abu-'l-Negga is seen bending away northward
behind the gate.

     Of The Xviiith Dynasty Temple At Dêk El-Bahari. About 1500
     B.C.

This is the famous gate on which the jealous Thothmes III chiselled out Hatshepsu's name in
the royal cartouches and inserted his own in its place; but he forgot to alter the gender of
the pronouns in the accompanying inscription, which therefore reads "King Thothmes III, she
made this monument to her father Amen."

Among Prof. Naville's discoveries here one of the most important is that of the altar in a
small court to the north, which, as the inscription says, was made in honour of the god Râ-Harmachis
"of beautiful white stone of Anu." It is of the finest white limestone known. Here also were
found the carved ebony doors of a shrine, now in the Cairo Museum. One of the most beautiful
parts of the temple is the Shrine of Anubis, with its splendidly preserved paintings and perfect
columns and roof of white limestone. The effect of the pure white stone and simplicity of architecture
is almost Hellenic.

The Shrine of Hathor has been known since the time of Mariette, but in connection with it some
interesting discoveries have been made during the excavation of the XIth Dynasty temple. In
the court between the two temples were found a large number of small votive offerings, consisting
of scarabs, beads, little figures of cows and women, etc., of blue glazed faïence and rough
pottery, bronze and wood, and blue glazed ware ears, eyes, and plaques with figures of the
sacred cow, and other small objects of the same nature. These are evidently the ex-votos of
the XVIIIth Dynasty fellahîn to the goddess Hathor in the rock-shrine above the court. When
the shrine was full or the little ex-votos broken, the sacristans threw them over the wall
into the court below, which thus became a kind of dust-heap. Over this heap the sand and débris
gradually collected, and thus they were preserved. The objects found are of considerable interest
to anthropological science.

The Great Temple was built, as we have said, in honour of Thothmes I and II, and the deities
Amen-Râ and Hathor. More especially it was the funerary chapel of Thothmes I. His tomb was
excavated, not in the Dra' Abu-l-Negga, which was doubtless now too near the capital city and
not in a sufficiently dignified position of aloofness from the common herd, but at the end
of the long valley of the Wadiyên, behind the cliff-hill above Dêr el-Bahari. Hence the new
temple was oriented in the direction of his tomb. Immediately behind the temple, on the other
side of the hill, is the tomb which was discovered by Lepsius and cleared in 1904 for Mr. Theodore
N. Davis by Mr. Howard Carter, then chief inspector of antiquities at Thebes. Its gallery is
of very small dimensions, and it winds about in the hill in corkscrew fashion like the tomb
of Aahmes at Aby-dos. Owing to its extraordinary length, the heat and foul air in the depths
of the tomb were almost insupportable and caused great difficulty to the excavators. When the
sarcophagus-chamber was at length reached, it was found to contain the empty sarcophagi of
Thothmes I and of Hatshepsu. The bodies had been removed for safe-keeping in the time of the
XXIst Dynasty, that of Thothmes I having been found with those of Set! I and Ramses II in the
famous pit at Dêr el-Bahari, which was discovered by M. Maspero in 1881. Thothmes I seems to
have had another and more elaborate tomb (No. 38) in the Valley of the Tombs of the Kings,
which was discovered by M. Loret in 1898. Its frescoes had been destroyed by the infiltration
of water.

The fashion of royal burial in the great valley behind Dêr el-Bahari was followed during the
XVIIIth, XIXth, and XXth Dynasties. Here in the eastern branch of the Wadiyên, now called the
Bibân el-Mulûk, "the Tombs of the Kings," the greater number of the mightiest Theban Pharaohs
were buried. In the western valley rested two of the kings of the XVIIIth Dynasty, who desired
even more remote burial-places, Amenhetep III and Ai. The former chose for his last home a
most kingly site. Ancient kings had raised great pyramids of artificial stone over their graves.
Amenhetep, perhaps the greatest and most powerful Pharaoh of them all, chose to have a natural
pyramid for his grave, a mountain for his tumulus. The illustration shows us the tomb of this
monarch, opening out of the side of one of the most imposing hills in the Western Valley. No
other king but Amenhetep rested beneath this hill, which thus marks his grave and his only.

It is in the Eastern Valley, the Valley of the Tombs of the Kings properly speaking, that the
tombs of Thothmes I and Hatshepsu lie, and here the most recent discoveries have been made.
It is a desolate spot. As we come over the hill from Dêr el-Bahari we see below us in the glaring
sunshine a rocky canon, with sides sometimes sheer cliff, sometimes sloped by great falls of
rock in past ages. At the bottom of these slopes the square openings of the many royal tombs
can be descried. [See illustration.] Far below we see the forms of tourists and the tomb-guards
accompanying them, moving in and out of the openings like ants going in and out of an ants'
nest. Nothing is heard but the occasional cry of a kite and the ceaseless rhythmical throbbing
of the exhaust-pipe of the electric light engine in the unfinished tomb of Ramses XI. Above
and around are the red desert hills. The Egyptians called it "The Place of Eternity."

In this valley some remarkable discoveries have been made during the last few years. In 1898
M. Grébaut discovered the tomb of Amenhetep II, in which was found the mummy of the king, intact,
lying in its sarcophagus in the depths of the tomb. The royal body now lies there for all to
see. The tomb is lighted with electricity, as are all the principal tombs of the kings. At
the head of the sarcophagus is a single lamp, and, when the party of visitors is collected
in silence around the place of death, all the lights are turned out, and then the single light
is switched on, showing the royal head illuminated against the surrounding blackness. The effect
is indescribably weird and impressive. The body has only twice been removed from the tomb since
its burial, the second time when it was for a brief space taken up into the sunlight to be
photographed by Mr.. Carter, in January, 1902. The temporary removal was carefully carried
out, the body of his Majesty being borne up through the passages of the tomb on the shoulders
of the Italian electric light workmen, preceded and followed by impassive Arab candle-bearers.
The workmen were most reverent in their handling of the body of " il gran ré," as they called him.

In the tomb were found some very interesting objects, including a model boat (afterwards stolen),
across which lay the body of a woman. This body now lies, with others found close by, in a
side chamber of the tomb. One may be that of Hatshepsu. The walls of the tomb-chamber are painted
to resemble papyrus, and on them are written chapters of the "Book of What Is in the Underworld,"
for the guidance of the royal ghost.

In 1902-3 Mr. Theodore Davis excavated the tomb of Thothmes IV. It yielded a rich harvest of
antiquities belonging to the funeral state of the king, including a chariot with sides of embossed
and gilded leather, decorated with representations of the king's warlike deeds, and much fine
blue pottery, all of which are now in the Cairo Museum. The tomb-gallery returns upon itself,
describing a curve. An interesting point with regard to it is that it had evidently been violated
even in the short time between the reigns of its owner and Horem-heb, probably in the period
of anarchy which prevailed at Thebes during the reign of the heretic Akhunaten; for in one
of the chambers is a hieratic inscription recording the repair of the tomb in the eighth year
of Horemheb by Maya, superintendent of works in the Tombs of the Kings. It reads as follows:
"In the eighth year, the third month of summer, under the Majesty of King Tjeser-khepru-Râ
Sotp-n-Râ, Son of the Sun, Horemheb Meriamen, his Majesty (Life, health, and wealth unto him!)
commanded that orders should be sent unto the Fanbearer on the King's Left Hand, the King's
Scribe and Overseer of the Treasury, the Overseer of the Works in the Place of Eternity, the
Leader of the Festivals of Amen in Karnak, Maya, son of the judge Aui, born of the Lady Ueret,
that he should renew the burial of King Men-khepru-Râ, deceased, in the August Habitation in
Western Thebes." Men-khepru-Râ was the prenomen or throne-name of Thothmes IV. Tied round a
pillar in the tomb is still a length of the actual rope used by the thieves for crossing the
chasm, which, as in many of the tombs here, was left open in the gallery to bar the way to
plunderers. The mummy of the king was found in the tomb of Amenhetep II, and is now at Cairo.

The discovery of the tomb of Thothmes I and Hat-shepsu has already been described. In 1905
Mr. Davis made his latest find, the tomb of Iuaa and Tuaa, the father and mother of Queen Tii,
the famous consort of Amenhetep III and mother of Akhunaten the heretic. Readers of Prof. Maspero's
history will remember that Iuaa and Tuaa are mentioned on one of the large memorial scarabs
of Amenhetep III, which commemorates his marriage. The tomb has yielded an almost incredible
treasure of funerary furniture, besides the actual mummies of Tii's parents, including a chariot
overlaid with gold. Gold overlay of great thickness is found on everything, boxes, chairs,
etc. It was no wonder that Egypt seemed the land of gold to the Asiatics, and that even the
King of Babylon begs this very Pharaoh Amenhetep to send him gold, in one of the letters found
at Tell el-Amarna, "for gold is as water in thy land." It is probable that Egypt really attained
the height of her material wealth and prosperity in the reign of Amenhetep III. Certainly her
dominion reached its farthest limits in his time, and his influence was felt from the Tigris
to the Sudan. He hunted lions for his pleasure in Northern Mesopotamia, and he built temples
at Jebel Barkal beyond Dongola. We see the evidence of lavish wealth in the furniture of the
tomb of Iuaa and Tuaa. Yet, fine as are many of these gold-overlaid and overladen objects of
the XVIIIth Dynasty, they have neither the good taste nor the charm of the beautiful jewels
from the XIIth Dynasty tombs at Dashûr. It is mere vulgar wealth. There is too much gold thrown
about. "For gold is as water in thy land." In three hundred years' time Egypt was to know what
poverty meant, when the poor priest-kings of the XXIst Dynasty could hardly keep body and soul
together and make a comparatively decent show as Pharaohs of Egypt. Then no doubt the latter-day
Thebans sighed for the good old times of the XVIIIth Dynasty, when their city ruled a considerable
part of Africa and Western Asia and garnered their riches into her coffers. But the days of
the XIIth Dynasty had really been better still. Then there was not so much wealth, but what
there was (and there was as much gold then, too) was used sparingly, tastefully, and simply.
The XIIth Dynasty, not the XVIIIth, was the real Golden Age of Egypt.

From the funeral panoply of a tomb like that of Iuaa and Tuaa we can obtain some idea of the
pomp and state of Amenhetep III. But the remains of his Theban palace, which have been discovered
and excavated by Mr. C. Tytus and Mr. P. E. Newberry, do not bear out this idea of magnificence.
It is quite possible that the palace was merely a pleasure house, erected very hastily and
destined to fall to pieces when its owner tired of it or died, like the many palaces of the
late Khedive Ismail. It stood on the border of an artificial lake, whereon the Pharaoh and
his consort Tii sailed to take their pleasure in golden barks. This is now the cultivated rectangular
space of land known as the Birket Habû, which is still surrounded by the remains of the embankment
built to retain its waters, and becomes a lake during the inundation. On the western shore
of this lake Amenhetep erected the "stately pleasure dome," the remains of which still cover
the sandy tract known as el-Malkata, "the Salt-pans," south of the great temple of Medînet
Habû. These remains consist merely of the foundations and lowest wall-courses of a complicated
and rambling building of many chambers, constructed of common unburnt brick and plastered with
white stucco on walls and floors, on which were painted beautiful frescoes of fighting bulls,
birds of the air, water-fowl, fish-ponds, etc., in much the same style as the frescoes of Tell
el-Amarna executed in the next reign. There were small pillared halls, the columns of which
were of wood, mounted on bases of white limestone. The majority still remain in position. In
several chambers there are small daïses, and in one the remains of a throne, built of brick
and mud covered with plaster and stucco, upon which the Pharaoh Amenhetep sat. This is the
palace of him whom the Greeks called Memnon, who ruled Egypt when Israel was in bondage and
when the dynasty of Minos reigned in Crete. Here by the side of his pleasure-lake the most
powerful of Egyptian Pharaohs whiled away his time during the summer heats. Evidently the building
was intended to be of the lightest construction, and never meant to last; but to our ideas
it seems odd that an Egyptian Pharaoh should live in a mud palace. Such a building is, however,
quite suited to the climate of Egypt, as are the modern crude brick dwellings of the fellahîn.
In the ruins of the palace were found several small objects of interest, and close by was an
ancient glass manufactory of Amenhetep III's time, where much of the characteristic beautifully
coloured and variegated opaque glass of the period was made.

The tombs of the magnates of Amenhetep III's reign and of the reigns of his immediate predecessors
were excavated, as has been said, on the eastern slope of the hill of Shêkh 'Abd el-Kûrna,
where was the earliest Theban necropolis. No doubt many of the early tombs of the time of the
VIth Dynasty were appropriated and remodelled by the XVIIIth Dynasty magnates. We have an instance
of time's revenge in this matter, in the case of the tomb of Imadua, a great priestly official
of the time of the XXth Dynasty. This tomb previously belonged to an XVIIIth Dynasty worthy,
but Imadua appropriated it three hundred years later and covered up all its frescoes with the
much begilt decoration fashionable in his period. Perhaps the XVIIIth Dynasty owner had stolen
it from an original owner of the time of the VIth Dynasty. The tomb has lately been cleared
out by Mr. Newberry.

Much work of the same kind has been done here of late years by Messrs. Newberry and R. L. Mond,
in succession. To both we are indebted for the excavation of many known tombs, as well as for
the discovery of many others previously unknown. Among the former was that of Sebekhetep, cleared
by Mr. Newberry. Se-bekhetep was an official of the time of Thothmes III. From his tomb, and
from others in the same hill, came many years ago the fine frescoes shown in the illustration,
which are among the most valued treasures of the Egyptian department of the British Museum.
They are typical specimens of the wall-decoration of an XVIIIth Dynasty tomb. On one may be
seen a bald-headed peasant, with staff in hand, pulling an ear of corn from the standing crop
in order to see if it is ripe. He is the "Chief Reaper," and above him is a prayer that the
"great god in heaven" may increase the crop. To the right of him is a charioteer standing beside
a car and reining back a pair of horses, one black, the other bay. Below is another charioteer
with two white horses. He sits on the floor of the car with his back to them, eating or resting,
while they nibble the branches of a tree close by. Another scene is that of a scribe keeping
tally of offerings brought to the tomb, while fellahm are bringing flocks of geese and other
fowl, some in crates. The inscription above is apparently addressed by the goose-herd to the
man with the crates. It reads: "Hasten thy feet because of the geese! Hearken! thou knowest
not the next minute what has been said to thee!" Above, a reïs with a stick bids other peasants
squat on the ground before addressing the scribe, and he is saying to them: "Sit ye down to
talk." The third scene is in another style; on it may be seen Semites bringing offerings of
vases of gold, silver, and copper to the royal presence, bowing themselves to the ground and
kissing the dust before the throne. The fidelity and accuracy with which the racial type of
the tribute-bearers is given is most extraordinary; every face seems a portrait, and each one
might be seen any day now in the Jewish quarters of Whitechapel.

The first two paintings are representative of a very common style of fresco-pictures in these
tombs. The care with which the animals are depicted is remarkable. Possibly one of the finest
Egyptian representations of an animal is the fresco of a goat in the tomb of Gen-Amen, discovered
by Mr. Mond. There is even an attempt here at chiaroscuro, which is unknown to Egyptian art
generally, except at Tell el-Amarna. Evidently the Egyptian painters reached the apogee of
their art towards the end of the XVIIIth Dynasty. The third, the representation of tribute-bearers,
is of a type also well known at this period. In all the chief tombs we have processions of
Egyptians, Westerners, Northerners, Easterners, and Southerners, bringing tribute to the Pharaoh.
The North is represented by the Semites, the East by the Punites (when they occur), the South
by negroes, the West by the Keftiu or people of Crete and Cyprus. The representations of the
last-named people have become of the very highest interest during the last few years, on account
of the discoveries in Crete, which have revealed to us the state and civilization of these
very Keftiu. Messrs. Evans and Halbherr have discovered at Knossos and Phaistos the cities
and palace-temples of the king who sent forth their ambassadors to far-away Egypt with gifts
for the mighty Pharaoh; these ambassadors were painted in the tombs of their hosts as representative
of the quarter of the world from which they came.

The two chief Egyptian representations of these people, who since they lived in Greece may
be called Greeks, though their more proper title would be "Pe-lasgians," are to be found in
the tombs of Rekhmarâ and Senmut, the former a vizier under Thothmes III, the latter the architect
of Hatshepsu's temple at Dêr el-Bahari. Senmut's tomb is a new rediscovery. It was known, as
Rekhmarâ's was, in the early days of Egyptological science, and Prisse d'Avennes copied its
paintings. It was afterwards lost sight of until rediscovered by Mr. Newberry and Prof. Steindorff.

 About
1500 B.C.

The tomb of Rekhmarâ (No. 35) is well known to every visitor to Thebes, but it is difficult
to get at that of Senmut (No. 110); it lies at the top of the hill round to the left and overlooking
Dêr el-Bahari, an appropriate place for it, by the way. In some ways Senmut's representations
are more interesting than Rekhmarâ's. They are more easily seen, since they are now in the
open air, the fore hall of the tomb having been ruined; and they are better preserved, since
they have not been subjected to a century of inspection with naked candles and pawing with
greasy hands, as have Rekhmarâ's frescoes. Further, there is no possibility of mistaking what
they represent. From right to left, walking in procession, we see the Minoan gift-bearers from
Crete, carrying in their hands and on their shoulders great cups of gold and silver, in shape
like the famous gold cups found at Vaphio in Lakonia, but much larger, also a ewer of gold
and silver exactly like one of bronze discovered by Mr. Evans two years ago at Knossos, and
a huge copper jug with four ring-handles round the sides. All these vases are specifically
and definitely Mycenaean, or rather, following the new terminology, Minoan. They are of Greek
manufacture and are carried on the shoulders of Pelasgian Greeks. The bearers wear the usual
Mycenaean costume, high boots and a gaily ornamented kilt, and little else, just as we see
it depicted in the fresco of the Cupbearer at Knossos and in other Greek representations. The
coiffure, possibly the most characteristic thing about the Mycenaean Greeks, is faithfully
represented by the Egyptians both here and in Rekhmarâ's tomb. The Mycenaean men allowed their
hair to grow to its full natural length, like women, and wore it partly hanging down the back,
partly tied up in a knot or plait (the kepas of the dandy Paris in the Iliad) on the crown
of the head. This was the universal fashion, and the Keftiu are consistently depicted by the
XVIIIth Dynasty Egyptians as following it. The faces in the Senmut fresco are not so well portrayed
as those in the Rekhmarâ fresco. There it is evident that the first three ambassadors are faithfully
depicted, as the portraits are marked. The procession advances from left to right. One, carrying
on his shoulder a great silver vase with curving handles and in one hand a dagger of early
European Bronze Age type, is looking back to hear some remark of his next companion. Any one
of these gift-bearers might have sat for the portrait of the Knossian Cupbearer, the fresco
discovered by Mr. Evans in the palace-temple of Minos; he has the same ruddy brown complexion,
the same long black hair dressed in the same fashion, the same parti-coloured kilt, and he
bears his vase in much the same way. We have only to allow for the difference of Egyptian and
Mycenaean ways of drawing. There is no doubt whatever that these Keftiu of the Egyptians were
Cretans of the Minoan Age. They used to be considered Phoenicians, but this view was long ago
exploded. They are not Semites, and that is quite enough. Neither are they Asiatics of any
kind. They are purely and simply Mycenaean, or rather Minoan, Greeks of the pre-Hellenic period--Pelasgi,
that is to say.

Probably no discovery of more far-reaching importance to our knowledge of the history of the
world generally and of our own culture especially has ever been made than the finding of Mycenæ
by Schliemann, and the further finds that have resulted therefrom, culminating in the discoveries
of Mr. Arthur Evans at Knossos. Naturally, these discoveries are of extraordinary interest
to us, for they have revealed the beginnings and first bloom of the European civilization of
to-day. For our culture-ancestors are neither the Egyptians, nor the Assyrians, nor the Hebrews,
but the Hellenes, and they, the Aryan-Greeks, derived most of their civilization from the pre-Hellenic
people whom they found in the land before them, the Pelasgi or "Mycenæan" Greeks, "Minoans,"
as we now call them, the Keftiu of the Egyptians. These are the ancient Greeks of the Heroic
Age, to which the legends of the Hellenes refer; in their day were fought the wars of Troy
and of the Seven against Thebes, in their day the tragedy of the Atridse was played out to
its end, in their day the wise Minos ruled Knossos and the Ægean. And of all the events which
are at the back of these legends we know nothing. The hiéroglyphed tablets of the pre-Hellenic
Greeks lie before us, but we cannot read them; we can only see that the Minoan writing in many
ways resembled the Egyptian, thus again confirming our impression of the original early connection
of the two cultures.

In view of this connection, and the known close relations between Crete and Egypt, from the
end of the XIIth Dynasty to the end of the XVIIIth, we might have hoped to recover at Knossos
a bilingual inscription in Cretan and Egyptian hieroglyphs which would give us the key to the
Minoan script and tell us what we so dearly wish to know. But this hope has not yet been realized.
Two Egyptian inscriptions have been found at Knossos, but no bilingual one. A list of Keftian
names is preserved in the British Museum upon an Egyptian writing-board from Thebes with what
is perhaps a copy of a single Cretan hieroglyph, a vase; but again, nothing bilingual. A list
of "Keftian words" occurs at the head of a papyrus, also in the British Museum, but they appear
to be nonsense, a mere imitation of the sounds of a strange tongue. Still we need not despair
of finding the much desired Cretan-Egyptian bilingual inscription yet. Perhaps the double text
of a treaty between Crete and Egypt, like that of Ramses II with the Hittites, may come to
light. Meanwhile we can only do our best with the means at our hand to trace out the history
of the relations of the oldest European culture with the ancient civilization of Egypt. The
tomb-paintings at Thebes are very important material. Eor it is due to them that the voice
of the doubter has finally ceased to be heard, and that now no archaeologist questions that
the Egyptians were in direct communication with the Cretan Mycenæans in the time of the XVIIIth
Dynasty, some fifteen hundred years before Christ, for no one doubts that the pictures of the
Keftiu are pictures of Mycenaeans.

As we have seen, we know that this connection was far older than the time of the XVIIIth Dynasty,
but it is during that time and the Hyksos period that we have the clearest documentary proof
of its existence, from the statuette of Abnub and the alabastron lid of King Khian, found at
Knossos, down to the Mycenaean pottery fragments found at Tell el-Amarna, a site which has
been utterly abandoned since the time of the heretic Akhunaten (B.C. 1430), so that there is
no possibility of anything found there being later than his time. That the connection existed
as late as the time of the XXth Dynasty we know from the representations of golden Bügelkannen
or false-necked vases of Mycenaean form in the tomb of Ramses III in the Bibân el-Mulûk, and
of golden cups of Vaphio type in the tomb of Imadua, already mentioned. This brings the connection
down to about 1050 B.C.

After that date we cannot hope to find any certain evidence of connection, for by that time
the Mycenaean civilization had probably come to an end. In the days of the XIIth and XVIIIth
Dynasties a great and splendid power evidently existed in Crete, and sent its peaceful ambassadors,
the Keftiu who are represented in the Theban tombs, to Egypt. But with the XIXth Dynasty the
name of the Keftiu disappears from Egyptian records, and their place is taken by a congeries
of warring seafaring tribes, whose names as given by the Egyptians seem to be forms of tribal
and place names well known to us in the Greece of later days. We find the Akaivasha (Axaifol,
Achaians), Shakalsha (Sagalassians of Pisidia), Tursha (Tylissians of Crete?), and Shardana
(Sardians) allied with the Libyans and Mashauash (Maxyes) in a land attack upon Egypt in the
days of Meneptah, the successor of Ramses II--just as in the later days of the XXVIth Dynasty
the Northern pirates visited the African shore of the Mediterranean, and in alliance with the
predatory Libyans attacked Egypt.

Prof. Petrie has lately [History of Egypt, iii, pp. Ill, I12.] proffered an alternative view,
which would make all these tribes Tunisians and Algerians, thus disposing of the identification
of the Akaivasha with the Achaians, and making them the ancient representatives of the town
of el-Aghwat (Roman Agbia) in Tunis. But several difficulties might be pointed out which are
in the way of an acceptance of this view, and it is probable that the older identifications
with Greek tribes must still be retained, so that Meneptah's Akaivasha are evidently the ancient
representatives of the Achai(v)ans, the Achivi of the Roman poets. The terminations sha and
na, which appear in these names, are merely ethnic and locative affixes belonging to the Asianic
language system spoken by these tribes at that time, to which the language of the Minoan Cretans
(which is written in the Knossian hieroglyphs) belonged. They existed in ancient Lycian in
the forms azzi and nna, and we find them enshrined in the Asia Minor place-names terminating
in assos and nda, as Halikarnassos, Sagalassos (Shakalasha in Meneptah's inscription), Oroanda,
and Labraunda (which, as we have seen, is the same as the [Greek word], a word of pre-Hellenic
origin, both meaning "Place of the Double Axe") The identification of these sha and nal terminations
in the Egyptian transliterations of the foreign names, with the Lycian affixes referred to,
was made some five years ago,* and is now generally accepted. We have, then, to find the equivalents
of these names, to strike off the final termination, as in the case of Akaiva-sha, where Akaiva
only is the real name, and this seems to be the Egyptian equivalent of Axaifol, Achivi. It
is strange to meet with this great name on an Egyptian monument of the thirteenth century B.C.
But yet not so strange, when we recollect that it is precisely to that period that Greek legend
refers the war of Troy, which was an attack by Greek tribes from all parts of the Ægean upon
the Asianic city at Hissarlik in the Troad, exactly parallel to the attacks of the Northerners
on Egypt. And Homer preserves many a reminiscence of early Greek visits, peaceful and the reverse,
to the coast of Egypt at this period. The reader will have noticed that one no longer treats
the siege of Troy as a myth. To do so would be to exhibit a most uncritical mind; even the
legends of King Arthur have a historic foundation, and those of the Nibelungen are still more
probable.

     * See Hall, Oldest Civilization of Greece, p. 178/.

In the eighth year of Ramses III the second Northern attack was made, by the Pulesta (Pelishtim,
Philistines), Tjakaray, Shakalasha (Sagalassians), Vashasha, and Danauna or Daanau, in alliance
with North Syrian tribes. The Danauna are evidently the ancient representatives of the Aavaoî,
the Danaans who formed the bulk of the Greek army against Troy under the leadership of the
long-haired Achaians, [Greek words] (like the Keftiu). The Vashasha have been identified by
the writer with the Axians, the [Greek word] of Crete. Prof. Petrie compares the name of the
Tjakaray with that of the (modern) place Zakro in Crete. Identifications with modern place-names
are of doubtful value; for instance, we cannot but hold that Prof. Petrie errs greatly in identifying
the name of the Pidasa (another tribe mentioned in Ramses II's time) with that of the river
Pidias in Cyprus. "Pidias" is a purely modern corruption of the ancient Pediseus, which means
the "plain-river" (because it flows through the central plain of the island), from the Greek
[Greek word]. If, then, we make the Pidasa Cypriotes we assume that pure Greek was spoken in
Cyprus as early as 1100 b. c, which is highly improbable. The Pidasa were probably Le-leges
(Pedasians); the name of Pisidia may be the same, by metathesis. Pedasos is a name always connected
with the much wandering tribe of the Leleges, where-ever they are found in Lakonia or in Asia
Minor. We believe them to have been known to the Egyptians as Pidasa. The identification of
the Tjakaray with Zakro is very tempting. The name was formerly identified with that of the
Teukrians, but the v in the word Tewpot lias always been a stumbling-block in the way. Perhaps
Zakro is neither more nor less than the Tetkpoc-name, since the legendary Teucer, the archer,
was connected with the eastern or Eteokretan end of Crete, where Zakro lies. In Mycenæan times
Zakro was an important place, so that the Tjakaray may be the Teukroi, after all, and Zakro
may preserve the name. At any rate, this identification is most alluring and, taken in conjunction
with the other cumulative identifications, is very probable; but the identification of the
Pidæa with the river Pediæus in Cyprus is neither alluring nor probable.

In the time of Ramses II some of these Asia Minor tribes had marched against Egypt as allies
of the Hittites. We find among them the Luka or Lycians, the Dardenui (Dardanians, who may
possibly have been at that time in the Troad, or elsewhere, for all these tribes were certainly
migratory), and the Masa (perhaps the Mysians). With the Cretans of Ramses Ill's time must
be reckoned the Pulesta, who are certainly the Philistines, then most probably in course of
their traditional migration from Crete to Palestine. In Philistia recent excavations by Mr.
Welch have disclosed the unmistakable presence of a late Mycenæan culture, and we can only
ascribe this to the Philistines, who were of Cretan origin.

Thus we see that all these Northern tribal names hold together with remarkable persistence,
and in fact refuse to be identified with any tribes but those of Asia Minor and the Ægean.
In them we see the broken remnants of the old Minoan (Keftian) power, driven hither and thither
across the seas by intestinal feuds, and "winding the skein of grievous wars till every man
of them perished," as Homer says of the heroes after the siege of Troy. These were in fact
the wanderings of the heroes, the period of Sturm und Drang which succeeded the great civilized
epoch of Minos and his thalassocracy, of Knossos, Phaistos, and the Keftius. On the walls of
the temple of Medînet Habû, Ramses III depicted the portraits of the conquered heroes who had
fallen before the Egyptian onslaught, and he called them heroes, tuher in Egyptian, fully recognizing
their Berserker gallantry. Above all in interest are the portraits of the Philistines, those
Greeks who at this very time seized part of Palestine (which takes its name from them), and
continued to exist there as a separate people (like the Normans in France) for at least two
centuries. Goliath the giant was, then, a Greek; certainly he was of Cretan descent, and so
a Pelasgian.

Such are the conclusions to which modern discovery in Crete has impelled us with regard to
the pictures of the Keftiu at Shêkh 'Abd el-Kûrna. It is indeed a new chapter in the history
of the relations of ancient Egypt with the outside world that Dr. Arthur Evans has opened for
us. And in this connection some American work must not be overlooked. An expedition sent out
by the University of Pennsylvania, under Miss Harriet Boyd, has discovered much of importance
to Mycenæan study in the ruins of an ancient town at Gournia in Crete, east of Knossos. Here,
however, little has been found that will bear directly on the question of relations between
Mycenaean Greece and Egypt.

The Theban nécropoles of the New Empire are by no means exhausted by a description of the Tombs
of the Kings and Shêkh 'Abd el-Kûrna; but few new discoveries have been made anywhere except
in the picturesque valley of the Tombs of the Queens, south of Shêkh 'Abd el-Kûrna. Here the
Italian Egyptologist, Prof. Schiaparelli, has lately discovered and excavated some very fine
tombs of the XIXth and XXth Dynasties. The best is that of Queen Nefertari, one of the wives
of Ramses II. The colouring of the reliefs upon these walls is extraordinarily bright, and
the portraits of the queen, who has a very beautiful face, with aquiline nose, are wonderfully
preserved. She was of the dark type, while another queen, Titi by name, who was buried close
by, was fair, and had a retroussé nose. Prof. Schiaparelli also discovered here the tombs of
some princes of the XXth Dynasty, who died young. All the tombs are much alike, with a single
short gallery, on the walls of which are mythological scenes, figures of the prince and of
his father, the king, etc., painted in a crude style, which shows a great degeneration from
that of the XVIIIth Dynasty tombs.

We now leave the great necropolis and turn to the later temples of the Western Bank at Thebes.
These were of a funerary character, like those of Dêr el-Bahari, already described. The most
imposing of all in some respects is the Ramesseum, where lies the huge granite colossus of
Ramses II, prostrate and broken, which Diodorus knew as the statue of Osymandyas. This name
is a late corruption of Ramses II's throne-name, User-maat-Rà, pronounced Ûsimare. The temple
has been cleared by Mr. Howard Carter for the Egyptian government, and the small town of priests'
houses, magazines, and cellars, to the west of it, has been excavated by him. This is quite
a little Pompeii, with its small streets, its houses with the stucco still clinging to the
walls, its public altar, its market colonnade, and its gallery of statues. The statues are
only of brick like the walls, and roughly shaped and plastered, but they were portraits, undoubtedly,
of celebrities of the time, though we do not know of whom. On either side are the long magazines
in which were kept the possessions of the priests of the Ramesseum, the grain from the lands
with which they were endowed, and everything meet to be offered to the ghost of the king whom
they served. The plan of the place had evidently been altered after the time of Ramses II,
as remains of overbuilding were found here and there. The magazines were first investigated
in 1896 by Prof. Petrie, who also found in the neighbourhood the remains of a number of small
royal funerary temples of the XVIIIth Dynasty, all looking in the direction of the hill, beyond
which lay the tombs of the kings.

     In which Prof. Schiaparelli discovered the tomb of Ramses
     II's wife (1904).

We may now turn to Luxor, where immediately above the landing-place of the steamers and dahabiyas
rise the stately coloured colonnades of the Temple of Luxor. Unfortunately, modern excavations
have not been allowed to pursue their course to completion here, as in the first great colonnaded
court, which was added by Ramses II to the original building of Amenhetep III, Tutankhamen,
and Horemheb, there still remains the Mohammedan Mosque of Abu-'l-Haggâg, which may not be
removed. Abu-'l-Haggâg, "the Father of Pilgrims" (so called on account of the number of pilgrims
to his shrine), was a very holy shêkh, and his memory is held in the greatest reverence by
the Luksuris. It is unlucky that this mosque was built within the court of the Great Temple,
and it cannot be removed till Moslem religious prejudices become at least partially ameliorated,
and then the work of completely excavating the Temple of Luxor may be carried out.

Between Luxor and Karnak lay the temple of the goddess Mut, consort of Amen and protectress
of Thebes. It stood in the part of the city known as Asheru. This building was cleared in 1895
at the expense and under the supervision of two English ladies, Miss Benson and Miss Gourlay.

     With A Dahabîya And A Steamer Of The Anglo-American Nile
     Company.

The temple had always been remarkable on account of the prodigious number of seated figures
of the lioness-headed goddess Sekhemet, or Pakhet, which it contains, dedicated by Amenhetep
III and Sheshenk I; most of those in the British Museum were brought from this temple. The
excavators found many more of them, and also some very interesting portrait-statues of the
late period which had been dedicated there. The most important of these was the head and shoulders
of a statue of Mentuemhat, governor of Thebes at the time of the sack of the city by Ashur-bani-pal
of Assyria in 668 B.C. In Miss Benson's interesting book, The Temple of Mut in Asher, it is
suggested, on the authority of Prof. Petrie, that his facial type is Cypriote, but this speculation
is a dangerous one, as is also the similar speculation that the wonderful portrait-head of
an old man found by Miss Benson [* Plate vii of her book.] is of Philistine type. We have only
to look at the faces of elderly Egyptians to-day to see that the types presented by Mentuemhat
and Miss Benson's "Philistine" need be nothing but pure Egyptian. The whole work of the clearing
was most efficiently carried out, and the Cairo Museum obtained from it some valuable specimens
of Egyptian sculpture.

The Great Temple of Karnak is one of the chief cares of the Egyptian Department of Antiquities.
Its paramount importance, so to speak, as the cathedral temple of Egypt, renders its preservation
and exploration a work of constant necessity, and its great extent makes this work one which
is always going on and which probably will be going on for many years to come. The Temple of
Karnak has cost the Egyptian government much money, yet not a piastre of this can be grudged.
For several years past the works have been under the charge of M. Georges Legrain, the well-known
engineer and draughtsman who was associated with M. de Morgan in the work at Dashûr. His task
is to clear out the whole temple thoroughly, to discover in it what previous investigators
have left undiscovered, and to restore to its original position what has fallen.

     The left-hand obelisk is the highest in Egypt, and was
     erected by Hatshepsu; the right-hand obelisk was put up by
     Thothmes III. No general work of restoration is
     contemplated, nor would this be in the slightest degree
     desirable. Up to the present M. Legrain has certainly
     carried out all three branches of his task with great
     success. An unforeseen event has, however, considerably
     complicated and retarded the work.

In October, 1899, one of the columns of the side aisles of the great Hypostyle Hall fell, bringing
down with it several others. The whole place was a chaotic ruin, and for a moment it seemed
as though the whole of the Great Hall, one of the wonders of the world, would collapse. The
disaster was due to the gradual infiltration of water from the Nile beneath the structure,
whose foundations, as is usual in Egypt, were of the flimsiest description. Even the most imposing
Egyptian temples have jerry-built foundations; usually they are built on the top of the wall-stumps
of earlier buildings of different plan, filled in with a confused mass of earlier slabs and
weak rubbish of all kinds. Had the Egyptian buildings been built on sure foundations, they
would have been preserved to a much greater extent even than they are. In such a climate as
that of Egypt a stone building well built should last for ever.

M. Legrain has for the last five years been busy repairing the damage. All the fallen columns
are now restored to the perpendicular, and the capitals and architraves are in process of being
hoisted into their original positions. The process by which M. Legrain carries out this work
has been already described. He works in the old Egyptian fashion, building great inclines or
ramps of earth up which the pillar-drums, the capitals, and the architrave-blocks are hauled
by manual labour, and then swung into position. This is the way in which the Egyptians built
Karnak, and in this way, too, M. Le-grain is rebuilding it. It is a slow process, but a sure
one, and now it will not be long before we shall see the hall, except its roof, in much the
same condition as it was when Seti built it. Lovers of the picturesque will, however, miss
the famous leaning column, hanging poised across the hall, which has been a main feature in
so many pictures and photographs of Karnak. This fell in the catastrophe of 1899, and naturally
it has not been possible to restore it to its picturesque, but dangerous, position.

The work at Karnak has been distinguished during the last two years by two remarkable discoveries.
Outside the main temple, to the north of the Hypostyle Hall, M. Legrain found a series of private
sanctuaries or shrines, built of brick by personages of the XVIIIth Dynasty and later, in order
to testify their devotion to Amen. In these small cells were found some remarkable statues,
one of which is illustrated. It is one of the most perfect of its kind. A great dignitary of
the XVIIIth Dynasty is seen seated with his wife, their daughter standing between them. Round
his neck are four chains of golden rings, with which he had been decorated by the Pharaoh for
his services. It is a remarkable group, interesting for its style and workmanship as well as
for its subject. As an example of the formal hieratic type of portraiture it is very fine.

The other and more important discovery of the two was made by M. Legrain on the south side
of the Hypo-style Hall. Tentative excavations, begun in an unoccupied tract under the wall
of the hall, resulted in the discovery of parts of statues; the place was then regularly excavated,
and the result has been amazing. The ground was full of statues, large and small, at some unknown
period buried pell-mell, one on the top of another. Some are broken, but the majority are perfect,
which is in itself unusual, and is due very much to the soft, muddy soil in which they have
lain. Statues found on dry desert land are often terribly cracked, especially when they are
of black granite, the crystals of which seem to have a greater tendency to disintegration than
have those of the red syenite. The Karnak statues are figures of pious persons, who had dedicated
portraits of themselves in the temple of Amen, together with those of great men whom the king
had honoured by ordering their statues placed in the temple during their lives.

Of this number was the great sage Amenhetep, son of Hapi, the founder of the little desert
temple of Dêr el-Medîna, near Dêr el-Bahari, who was a sort of prime minister under Amenhetep
III, and was venerated in later days as a demigod. His statue was found with the others by
M. Legrain. Among them is a figure made entirely of green felspar, an unusual material for
so large a statuette. A fine portrait of Thothmes III was also found. The illustration shows
this wonderfully fruitful excavation in progress, with the diggers at work in the black mud
soil, in the foreground the basket-boys carrying away the rubbish on their shoulders, and the
massive granite walls of the Great Hypostyle Hall of Seti in the background. The huge size
of the roof-blocks is noticeable. These are not the actual uppermost roof-blocks, but only
the architraves from pillar to pillar; the original roof consisted of similar blocks laid across
in the transverse direction from architrave to architrave. An Egyptian granite temple was in
fact built upon the plan of a child's box of bricks; it was but a modified and beautified Stonehenge.

     Of The Time Of The Xviiith Dynasty. Discovered by M. Legrain
     at Karnak.

Other important discoveries have been made by M. Legrain in the course of his work.

     The Tomb of Pentu (No. 5) at Tell el-Amarna, inhabited by
     Mr. de G. Davies during his work for the Archaeological
     Survey of Egypt (Egypt Exploration Fund). About 1400 B.C.

Among them are statues of the late Middle Kingdom, including one of King Usertsen (Senusret)
IV of the XIIIth Dynasty. There are also reliefs of the reign of Amenhetep I, which are remarkable
for the delicacy of their workmanship and the sureness of their technique.

We know that the temple was built as early as the time of TJsertsen, for in it have been found
one or two of his blocks; and no doubt the original shrine, which was rebuilt in the time of
Philip Arrhidseus, was of the same period, but hitherto no remains of the centuries between
his time and that of Hatshepsu had been found. With M. Legrain's work in the greatest temple
of Thebes we finish our account of the new discoveries in the chief city of ancient Egypt,
as we began it with the work of M. Naville in the oldest temple there.

One of the most interesting questions connected with the archaeology of Thebes is that which
asks whether the heretical disk-worshipper Akhunaten (Amenhetep IV) erected buildings there,
and whether any trace of them has ever been discovered. To those who are interested in Egyptian
history and religion the transitory episode of the disk-worship heresy is already familiar.
The precise character of the heretical dogma, which Amenhetep IV proclaimed and desired his
subjects to. accept, has lately been well explained by Mr. de Garis Davies in his volumes,
published by the "Archaeological Survey of Egypt" branch of the Egypt Exploration Fund, on
the tombs of el-Amarna. He shows that the heretical doctrine was a monotheism of a very high
order. Amenhetep IV (or as he preferred to call himself, Akhunaten, "Glory of the Disk") did
not, as has usually been supposed, merely worship the Sun-disk itself as the giver of life,
and nothing more. He venerated the glowing disk merely as the visible emanation of the deity
behind it, who dispensed heat and life to all living things through its medium. The disk was,
so to speak, the window in heaven through which the unknown God, the "Lord of the Disk," shed
a portion of his radiance on the world. Now, given an ignorance of the true astronomical character
of the sun, we see how eminently rational a religion this was. In effect, the sun is the source
of all life upon this earth, and so Akhunaten caused its rays to be depicted each with a hand
holding out the sign of life to the earth. The monotheistic worship of the sun alone is certainly
the highest form of pagan religion, but Akhunaten saw further than this. His doctrine was that
there was a deity behind the sun, whose glory shone through it and gave us life. This deity
was unnamed and unnamable; he was "the Lord of the Disk." We see in his heresy, therefore,
the highest attitude to which religious ideas had attained before the days of the Hebrew prophets.

This religion seems to have been developed out of the philosophical speculations of the priests
of the Sun at Heliopolis. Akhunaten with unwise iconoclastic zeal endeavoured to root out the
worship of the ancient gods of Egypt, and especially that of Amen-Bà, the ruler of the Egyptian
pantheon, whose primacy in the hearts of the people made him the most redoubtable rival of
the new doctrine. But the name of the old Sun-god Bà-Harmaehis was spared, and it is evident
that Akhunaten regarded him as more or less identical with his god.

It has been supposed by Prof. Petrie that Queen Tii, the mother of Akhunaten, was of Mitannian
(Armenian) origin, and that she brought the Aten religion to Egypt from her native land, and
taught it to her son. Certainly it seems as though the new doctrine had made some headway before
the death of Amenhetep III, but we have no reason to attribute it to Tii, or to suppose that
she brought it with her from abroad. There is no proof whatever that she was not a native Egyptian,
and the mummies of her parents, Iuaa and Tuaa, are purely Egyptian in facial type. It seems
undoubted that the Aten cult was a development of pure Egyptian religious thought.

At first Akhunaten tried to establish his religion at Thebes alongside that of Amen and his
attendant pantheon. He seems to have built a temple to the Aten there, and we see that his
courtiers began to make tombs for themselves in the new realistic style of sculptural art,
which the king, heretical in art as in religion, had introduced. The tomb of Barnes at Shêkh
'Abd el-Kûrna has on one side of the door a representation of the king in the old regular style,
and on the other side one in the new realistic style, which depicts him in all the native ugliness
in which this strange truth-loving man seems to have positively gloried. We find, too, that
he caused a temple to the Aten to be erected in far-away Napata, the capital of Nubia, by Jebel
Barkal in the Sudan. The facts as to the Theban and Napata temples have been pointed out by
Prof. Breasted, of Chicago.

But the opposition of the Theban priesthood was too strong. Akhunaten shook the dust of the
capital off his feet and retired to the isolated city of Akhet-aten, "the Glory of the Disk,"
at the modern Tell el-Amarna, where he could philosophize in peace, while his kingdom was left
to take care of itself. He and his wife Nefret-iti, who seems to have been a faithful sharer
of his views, reigned over a select court of Aten-worship-ping nobles, priests, and artists.
The artists had under Akhunaten an unrivalled opportunity for development, of which they had
already begun to take considerable advantage before the end of his reign and the restoration
of the old order of ideas. Their style takes on itself an almost bizarre freedom, which reminds
us strongly of the similar characteristic in Mycenaean art. There is a strange little relief
in the Berlin Museum of the king standing cross-legged, leaning on a staff, and languidly smelling
a flower, while the queen stands by with her garments blown about by the wind. The artistic
monarch's graceful attitude is probably a faithful transcript of a characteristic pose.

We see from this what an Egyptian artist could do when his shackles were removed, but unluckily
Egypt never produced another king who was at the same time an original genius, an artist, and
a thinker. When Akhunaten died, the Egyptian artists' shackles were riveted tighter than ever.
The reaction was strong. The kingdom had fallen into anarchy, and the foreign empire which
his predecessors had built up had practically been thrown to the winds by Akhunaten. The whole
is an example of the confusion and disorganization which ensue when a philosopher rules. Not
long after the heretic's death the old religion was fully restored, the cult of the disk was
blotted out, and the Egyptians returned joyfully to the worship of their myriad deities. Akhunaten's
ideals were too high for them. The débris of the foreign empire was, as usual in such cases,
put together again, and customary law and order restored by the conservative reactionaries
who succeeded him. Henceforth Egyptian civilization runs an uninspired and undeveloping course
till the days of the Saïtes and the Ptolemies. This point in the history of Egypt, therefore,
forms a convenient stopping-place at which to pause, while we turn once more to Western Asia,
and ascertain to what extent recent excavations and research have thrown new light upon the
problems connected with the rise and history of the Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian Empires. That
the land was colonized from Babylonia and was at first ruled as a dependency of the southern
kingdom have long been regarded as established facts, but until recently little was known of
its early rulers and governors, and still less of the condition of the country and its capital
during the early periods of their existence. Since the excavations carried out by the British
Museum at Kala Sherghat, on the western bank of the Tigris, it has been known that the mounds
at that spot mark the site of the city of Ashur, the first capital of the Assyrians, and the
monuments and records recovered during those excavations have hitherto formed our principal
source of information for the early history of the country.* Some of the oldest records found
in the course of these excavations were short votive texts inscribed by rulers who bore the
title of ishshakku, corresponding to the Sumerian and early Babylonian title of patesi, and
with some such meaning as "viceroy." It was rightly conjectured from the title which they bore
that these early rulers owed allegiance to the kings of Babylon and were their nominees, or
at any rate their tributaries. The names of a few of these early viceroys were recovered from
their votive inscriptions and from notices in later historical texts, but it was obvious that
our knowledge of early Assyrian history would remain very fragmentary until systematic excavations
in Assyria were resumed. Three years ago (1902) the British Museum resumed excavations at Kuyunjik,
the site of Nineveh. The work was begun and carried out under the direction of Mr. L. W. King,
but since last summer has been continued by Mr. R. C. Thompson. Last year, too, excavations
were reopened at Sherghat by the Deutsch-Orient Ge-sellschaft, at first under the direction
of Dr. Koldewey, and afterwards under that of Dr. Andrae, by whom they are at present being
carried on. This renewed activity on the sites of the ancient cities of Assyria is already
producing results of considerable interest, and the veil which has so long concealed the earlier
periods in the history of that country is being lifted.

     * For the texts and translations of these documents, see
     Budge and King, Annals of the Kings of Assyria, pp. iff.

Shortly before these excavations in Assyria were set on foot an indication was obtained from
an early Babylonian text that the history of Assyria as a dependent state or province of Babylon
must be pushed back to a far more remote period than had hitherto been supposed. In one of
Hammurabi's letters to Sin-idinnam, governor of the city of Larsam, to which reference has
already been made, directions are given for the despatch to the king of "two hundred and forty
men of 'the King's Company' under the command of Nannar-iddina... who have left the country
of Ashur and the district of Shitullum." From this most interesting reference it followed that
the country to the north of Babylonia was known as Assyria at the time of the kings of the
First Dynasty of Babylon, and the fact that Babylonian troops were stationed there by Hammurabi
proved that the country formed an integral part of the Babylonian empire.

These conclusions were soon after strikingly confirmed by two passages in the introductory
sections of Hammurabi's code of laws which was discovered at Susa. Here Hammurabi records that
he "restored his (i.e. the god Ashur's) protecting image unto the city of Ashur," and a few
lines farther on he describes himself as the king "who hath made the names of Ishtar glorious
in the city of Nineveh in the temple of E-mish-mish." That Ashur should be referred to at this
period is what we might expect, inasmuch as it was known to have been the earliest capital
of Assyria; more striking is the reference to Nineveh, proving as it does that it was a flourishing
city in Hammurabi's time and that the temple of Ishtar there had already been long established.
It is true that Gudea, the Sumerian patesi of Shirpurla, records that he rebuilt the temple
of the goddess Ninni (Ishtar) at a place called Nina. Now Nina may very probably be identified
with Nineveh, but many writers have taken it to be a place in Southern Babylonia and possibly
a district of Shirpurla itself. No such uncertainty attaches to Hammurabi's reference to Nineveh,
which is undoubtedly the Assyrian city of that name. Although no account has yet been published
of the recent excavations carried out at Nineveh by the British Museum, they fully corroborate
the inference drawn with regard to the great age of the city. The series of trenches which
were cut deep into the lower strata of Kuyunjik revealed numerous traces of very early habitations
on the mound.

Neither in Hammurabi's letters, nor upon the stele inscribed with his code of laws, is any
reference made to the contemporary governor or ruler of Assyria, but on a contract tablet preserved
in the Pennsylvania Museum a name has been recovered which will probably be identified with
that of the ruler of Assyria in Hammurabi's reign. In legal and commercial documents of the
period of the First Dynasty of Babylon the contracting parties frequently swore by the names
of two gods (usually Shamash and Marduk) and also that of the reigning king. Now it has been
found by Dr. Banke that on this document in the Pennsylvania Museum the contracting parties
swear by the name of Hammurabi and also by that of Shamshi-Adad. As only gods and kings are
mentioned in the oath formulas of this period, it follows that Shamshi-Adad was a king, or
at any rate a patesi or ishshakku. Now from its form the name Shamshi-Adad must be that of
an Assyrian, not that of a Babylonian, and, since he is associated in the oath formula with
Hammurabi, it is legitimate to conclude that he governed Assyria in the time of Hammurabi as
a dependency of Babylon. An early Assyrian ishshakku of this name, who was the son of Ishme-Dagan,
is mentioned by Tiglath-Pileser I, but he cannot be identified with the ruler of the time of
Hammurabi, since, according to Tiglath-Pileser, he ruled too late, about 1800 B.C. A brick-inscription
of another Shamshi-Adad, however, the son of Igur-kapkapu, is preserved in the British Museum,
and it is probable that we may identify him with Hammurabi's Assyrian viceroy. Erishum and
his son Ikunum, whose inscriptions are also preserved in the British Museum, should certainly
be assigned to an early period of Assyrian history.

The recent excavations at Sherghat are already yielding the names of other early Assyrian viceroys,
and, although the texts of the inscriptions in which their names occur have not yet been published,
we may briefly enumerate the more important of the discoveries that have been made. Last year
a small cone or cylinder was found which, though it bears only a few lines of inscription,
restores the names of no less than seven early Assyrian viceroys whose existence was not previously
known. The cone was inscribed by Ashir-rîm-nishêshu, who gives his own genealogy and records
the restoration of the wall of the city of Ashur, which he states had been rebuilt by certain
of his predecessors on the throne. The principal portion of the inscription reads as follows:
"Ashir-rîm-nishêshu, the viceroy of the god Ashir, the son of Ashir-nirari, the viceroy of
the god Ashir, the son of Ashir-rabi, the viceroy. The city wall which Kikia, Ikunum, Shar-kenkate-Ashir,
and Ashir-nirari, the son of Ishme-Dagan, my forefathers, had built, was fallen, and for the
preservation of my life... I rebuilt it." Perhaps no inscription has yet been recovered in
either Assyria or Babylonia which contained so much new information packed into so small a
space. Of the names of the early viceroys mentioned in it only one was previously known, i.e.
the name of Ikunum, the son of Erishum, is found in a late copy of a votive text preserved
in the British Museum. Thus from these few lines the names of three rulers in direct succession
have been recovered, viz., Ashir-rabi, Ashir-nirari, and Ashur-rîm-nishêshu, and also those
of four earlier rulers, viz., Kikia, Shar-kenkate-Ashir, Ishme-Dagan, and his son Ashir-nirari.
Another interesting point about the inscription is the spelling of the name of the national
god of the Assyrians. In the later periods it is always written Ashur, but at this early time
we see that the second vowel is changed and that at first the name was written Ashir, a form
that was already known from the Cappadocian cuneiform inscriptions. The form Ashir is a good
participial construction and signifies "the Beneficent," "the Merciful One."

Another interesting find, which was also made last year, consists of four stone tablets, each
engraved with the same building-inscription of Shalmaneser I, a king who reigned over Assyria
about 1300 B.C. In recording his rebuilding of E-kharsag-kurkura, the temple of the god Ashur
in the city of Ashur, he gives a brief summary of the temple's history with details as to the
length of time which elapsed between the different periods during which it had been previously
restored. The temple was burned in Shalmaneser's time, and, when recording this fact and the
putting out of the fire, he summarizes the temple's history in a long parenthesis, as will
be seen from the following translation of the extract: "When E-kharsag-kurkura, the temple
of Ashur, my lord, which Ushpia (variant Aushpia), the priest of Ashur, my forefather, had
built aforetime,--and it fell into decay and Erishu, my forefather, the priest of Ashur, rebuilt
it; 159 years passed by after the reign of Erishu, and that temple fell into decay, and Shamshi-Adad,
the priest of Ashur, rebuilt it; (during) 580 years that temple which Shamshi-Adad, the priest
of Ashur, had built, grew hoary and old--(when) fire broke out in the midst thereof..., at
that time I drenched that temple (with water) in (all) its circuit."

From this extract it will be seen that Shalmaneser gives us, in Ushpia or Aushpia, the name
of a very early Assyrian viceroy, who in his belief was the founder of the great temple of
the god Ashur. He also tells us that 159 years separated Erishu from a viceroy named Shamshi-Adad,
and that 580 years separated Shamshi-Adad from his own time. When these inscriptions were first
found they were hailed with considerable satisfaction by historians, as they gave what seemed
to be valuable information for settling the chronology of the early patesis. But confidence
in the accuracy of Shalmaneser's reckoning was somewhat shaken a few months afterwards by the
discovery of a prism of Esarhaddon, who gave in it a history of the same temple, but ascribed
totally different figures for the periods separating the reigns of Erishu and Shamshi-Adad,
and the temple's destruction by fire. Esarhaddon agrees with Shalmaneser in ascribing the founding
of the temple to Ushpia, but he states that only 126 years (instead of 159 years) separated
Erishu (whom he spells Irishu), the son of Ilu-shumma, from Shamshi-Adad, the son of Bêl-kabi;
and he adds that 434 years (instead of 580 years) elapsed between Shamshi-Adad's restoration
of the temple and the time when it was burned down. As Shalmaneser I lived over six hundred
years earlier than Esarhaddon, he was obviously in a better position to ascertain the periods
at which the events recorded took place, but the discrepancy between the figures he gives and
those of Esarhaddon is disconcerting. It shows that Assyrian scribes could make bad mistakes
in their reckoning, and it serves to cast discredit on the absolute accuracy of the chronological
notices contained in other late Assyrian inscriptions. So far from helping to settle the unsolved
problems of Assyrian chronology, these two recent finds at Sherghat have introduced fresh confusion,
and Assyrian chronology for the earlier periods is once more cast into the melting pot.

In addition to the recovery of the names of hitherto unknown early rulers of Assyria, the recent
excavations at Sherghat have enabled us to ascertain the true reading of the name of Shalmaneser
I's grandfather, who reigned a considerable time after Assyria had gained her independence.
The name of this king has hitherto been read as Pudi-ilu, but it is now shown that the signs
composing the first part of the name are not to be taken phonetically, but as ideographs, the
true reading of the name being Arik-dên-ilu, the signification of which is "Long (i.e. far-reaching)
is the judgment of God." Arik-dên-ilu was a great conqueror, as were his immediate descendants,
all of whom extended the territory of Assyria. By strengthening the country and increasing
her resources they enabled Arik-dên-ilu 's great-grandson, Tukulti-Ninib I, to achieve the
conquest of Babylon itself. Concerning Tukulti-Ninib's reign and achievements an interesting
inscription has recently been discovered. This is now preserved in the British Museum, and
before describing it we may briefly refer to another phase of the excavations at Sherghat.

     An early independent King of Assyria, who reigned about B.C.
     1350. Photograph by Messrs. Mansell & Co.

The mounds of Sherghat rise a considerable height above the level of the plain, and are to
a great extent of natural and not of artificial formation. In fact, the existence of a group
of high natural mounds at this point on the bank of the Tigris must have led to its selection
by the early Assyrians as the site on which to build their first stronghold. The mounds were
already so high, from their natural formation, that there was no need for the later Assyrian
kings to increase their height artificially (as they raised the chief palace-mound at Nineveh),
and the remains of the Assyrian buildings of the early period are thus only covered by a few
feet of débris and not by masses of unburnt brick and artificially piled up soil. This fact
has considerably facilitated the systematic uncovering of the principal mound that is now being
carried out by Dr. Andrae.

Work has hitherto been confined to the northwest corner of the mound around the ziggurat, or
temple tower, and already considerable traces of Assyrian buildings have been laid bare in
this portion of the site. The city wall on the northern side has been uncovered, as well as
quays with steps leading down to the water along the river front. Part of the great temple
of the god Ashur has been excavated, though a considerable portion of it must be still covered
by the modern Turkish fort at the extreme northern point of the mounds; also part of a palace
erected by Ashur-nasir-pal has been identified. In fact, the work at Sherghat promises to add
considerably to our knowledge of ancient Assyrian architecture.

The inscription of Tukulti-Ninib I, which was referred to above as having been recently acquired
by the trustees of the British Museum, affords valuable information for the reconstruction
of the history of Assyria during the first half of the thirteenth century B.C.* It is seen
from the facts summarized that for our knowledge of the earlier history of the country we have
to depend to a large extent on short brick-inscriptions and votive texts supplemented by historical
references in inscriptions of the later period. The only historical inscription of any length
belonging to the early Assyrian period, which had been published up to a year ago, was the
famous memorial slab containing an inscription of Adad-nirari I, which was acquired by the
late Mr. George Smith some thirty years ago. Although purchased in Mosul, the slab had been
found by the natives in the mounds at Sherghat, for the text engraved upon it in archaic Assyrian
characters records the restoration of a part of the temple of the god Ashur in the ancient
city of Ashur, the first capital of the Assyrians, now marked by the mounds of Sherghat, which
have already been described. The object of Adad-nirari in causing the memorial slab to be inscribed
was to record the restoration of the portion of the temple which he had rebuilt, but the most
important part of the inscription was contained in the introductory phrases with which the
text opens. They recorded the conquests achieved not only by Adad-nirari but by his father
Arik-dên-ilu, his grandfather Bél-nirari, and his great-grandfather Ashur-uballit. They thus
enabled the historian to trace the gradual extension and consolidation of the Assyrian empire
during a critical period in its early history.

     * For the text and translation of the inscription, see King,
     Studies it Eastern History, i (1904).

The recently recovered memorial slab of Tukulti-Ninib I is similar to that of his grandfather
Adad-nirari I, and ranks in importance with it for the light it throws on the early struggles
of Assyria. Tukulti-Ninib 's slab, like that of Adad-nirari, was a foundation memorial intended
to record certain building operations carried out by order of the king. The building so commemorated
was not the restoration of a portion of a temple, but the founding of a new city, in which
the king erected no less than eight temples dedicated to various deities, while he also records
that he built a palace therein for his own habitation, that he protected the city by a strongly
fortified wall, and that he cut a canal from the Tigris by which he ensured a continuous supply
of fresh water. These were the facts which the memorial was primarily intended to record, but,
like the text of Adad-nirari I, the most interesting events for the historian are those referred
to in the introductory portions of the inscription. Before giving details concerning the founding
of the new city, named Kar-Tukulti-Mnib, "the Fortress of Tukulti-Mnib," the king supplies
an account of the military expeditions which he had conducted during the course of his reign
up to the time when the foundation memorial was inscribed. These introductory paragraphs record
how the king gradually conquered the peoples to the north and northeast of Assyria, and how
he finally undertook a successful campaign against Babylon, during which he captured the city
and completely subjugated both Northern and Southern Babylonia. Tukulti-Mnib's reign thus marks
an epoch in the history of his country.

We have already seen how, during the early ages of her history, Assyria had been merely a subject
province of the Babylonian empire. Her rulers had been viceroys owing allegiance to their overlords
in Babylon, under whose orders they administered the country, while garrisons of Babylonian
soldiers, and troops commanded by Babylonian officers, served to keep the country in a state
of subjection. Gradually, however, the country began to feel her feet and long for independence.
The conquest of Babylon by the kings of the Country of the Sea afforded her the opportunity
of throwing off the Babylonian yoke. In the fifteenth century the Assyrian kings were powerful
enough to have independent relations with the kings of Egypt, and, during the two centuries
which preceded Tukulti-Mnib's reign.

Assyria's relations with Babylon were the cause of constant friction due to the northern kingdom's
growth in power and influence. The frontier between the two countries was constantly in dispute,
and, though sometimes rectified by treaty, the claims of Assyria often led to war between the
two countries. The general result of these conflicts was that Assyria gradually extended her
authority farther southwards, and encroached upon territory which had previously been Babylonian.
The successes gained by Ashur-uballit, Bêl-nirari, and Adad-nirari I against the contemporary
Babylonian kings had all resulted in the cession of fresh territory to Assyria and in an increase
of her international importance. Up to the time of Tukulti-Mnib no Assyrian king had actually
seated himself upon the Babylonian throne. This feat was achieved by Tukulti-Mnib, and his
reign thus marks an important step in the gradual advance of Assyria to the position which
she later occupied as the predominant power in Western Asia.

Before undertaking his campaign against Babylon, Tukulti-Mnib secured himself against attack
from other quarters, and his newly discovered memorial inscription supplies considerable information
concerning the steps he took to achieve this object. In his inscription the king does not number
his military expeditions, and, with the exception of the first one, he does not state the period
of his reign in which they were undertaken. The results of his campaigns are summarized in
four paragraphs of the text, and it is probable that they are not described in chronological
order, but are arranged rather according to the geographical position of the districts which
he invaded and subdued. Tukulti-Ninib records that his first campaign took place at the beginning
of his sovereignty, in the first year of his reign, and it was directed against the tribes
and peoples inhabiting the territory on the east of Assyria. Of the tribes which he overran
and conquered on this occasion the most important was the Kuti, who probably dwelt in the districts
to the east of the Lower Zâb. They were a turbulent race and they had already been conquered
by Arik-dên-ilu and Adad-nirari I, but on neither occasion had they been completely subdued,
and they had soon regained their independence. Their subjugation by Tukulti-Ninib was a necessary
preliminary to any conquest in the south, and we can well understand why it was undertaken
by the king at the beginning of his reign. Other conquests which were also made in the same
region were the Ukumanî and the lands of Elkhu-nia, Sharnida, and Mekhri, mountainous districts
which probably lay to the north of the Lower Zâb. The country of Mekhri took its name from
the mekhru-tree, a kind of pine or fir, which grew there in abundance upon the mountainsides,
and was highly esteemed by the Assyrian kings as affording excellent wood for building purposes.
At a later period Ashur-nasir-pal invaded the country in the course of his campaigns and brought
back beams of mekhru-wood, which he used in the construction of the temple dedicated to the
goddess Ishtar in Nineveh.

The second group of tribes and districts enumerated by Tukulti-Ninib as having been subdued
in his early years, before his conquest of Babylon, all lay probably to the northwest of Assyria.
The most powerful among these peoples were the Shubari, who, like the Kutî on the eastern border
of Assyria, had already been conquered by Adad-nirari I, but had regained their independence
and were once more threatening the border on this side. The third group of his conquests consisted
of the districts ruled over by forty kings of the lands of Na'iri, which was a general term
for the mountainous districts to the north of Assyria, including territory to the west of Lake
Van and extending eastwards to the districts around Lake Urmi. The forty kings in this region
whom Tukulti-Ninib boasts of having subdued were little more than chieftains of the mountain
tribes, each one possessing authority over a few villages scattered among the hills and valleys.
But the men of Na'iri were a warlike and hardy race, and, if left long in undisturbed possession
of their native fastnesses, they were tempted to make raids into the fertile plains of Assyria.
It was therefore only politic for Tukulti-Ninib to traverse their country with fire and sword,
and, by exacting heavy tribute, to keep the fear of Assyrian power before their eyes. From
the king's records we thus learn that he subdued and crippled the semi-independent races living
on his borders to the north, to the northwest, and to the east. On the west was the desert,
from which region he need fear no organized attack when he concentrated his army elsewhere,
for his permanent garrisons were strong enough to repel and punish any incursion of nomadic
tribes. He was thus in a position to try conclusions with his hereditary foe in the south,
without any fear of leaving his land open to invasion in his absence.

The campaign against Babylon was the most important one undertaken by Tukulti-Ninib, and its
successful issue was the crowning point of his military career. The king relates that the great
gods Ashur, Bel, and Shamash, and the goddess Ishtar, the queen of heaven and earth, marched
at the head of his warriors when he set out upon the expedition. After crossing the border
and penetrating into Babylonian territory he seems to have had some difficulty in forcing Bitiliashu,
the Kassite king who then occupied the throne of Babylon, to a decisive engagement. But by
a skilful disposition of his forces he succeeded in hemming him in, so that the Babylonian
army was compelled to engage in a pitched battle. The result of the fighting was a complete
victory for the Assyrian arms. Many of the Babylonian warriors fell fighting, and Bitiliashu
himself was captured by the Assyrian soldiers in the midst of the battle. Tukulti-Ninib boasts
that he trampled his lordly neck beneath his feet, and on his return to Assyria he carried
his captive back in fetters to present him with the spoils of the campaign before Ashur, the
national god of the Assyrians.

Before returning to Assyria, however, Tukulti-Ninib marched with his army throughout the length
and breadth of Babylonia, and achieved the subjugation of the whole of the Sumer and Akkad.
He destroyed the fortifications of Babylon to ensure that they should not again be used against
himself, and all the inhabitants who did not at once submit to his decrees he put co the sword.
He then appointed his own officers to rule the country and established his own system of administration,
adding to his previous title of "King of Assyria," those of "King of Karduniash (i. e. Babylonia)"
and "King of Sumer and Akkad." It was probably from this period that he also adopted the title
of "King of the Poor Quarters of the World." As a mark of the complete subjugation of their
ancient foe, Tukulti-Ninib and his army carried back with them to Assyria not only the captive
Babylonian king, but also the statue of Marduk, the national god of Babylon. This they removed
from B-sagila, his sumptuous temple in Babylon, and they looted the sacred treasures from the
treasure-chambers, and carried them off together with the spoil of the city.

Tukulti-Ninib no doubt left a sufficient proportion of his army in Babylon to garrison the
city and support the governors and officials into whose charge he committed the administration
of the land, but he himself returned to Assyria with the rich spoil of the campaign, and it
was probably as a use for this large increase of wealth and material that he decided to found
another city which should bear his own name and perpetuate it for future ages. The king records
that he undertook this task at the bidding of Bel (i.e. the god Ashur), who commanded that
he should found a new city and build a dwelling-place for him therein. In accordance with the
desire of Ashur and the gods, which was thus conveyed to him, the king founded the city of
Kar-Tukulti-Ninib, and he erected therein temples dedicated not only to Ashur, but also to
the gods Adad, and Sha-mash, and Ninib, and Nusku, and Nergal, and Imina-bi, and the goddess
Ishtar. The spoils from Babylon and the temple treasures from E-sagila were doubtless used
for the decoration of these temples and the adornment of their shrines, and the king endowed
the temples and appointed regular offerings, which he ordained should be their property for
ever. He also built a sumptuous palace for his own abode when he stayed in the city, which
he constructed on a mound or terrace of earth, faced with brick, and piled high above the level
of the city. Finally, he completed its fortification by the erection of a massive wall around
it, and the completion of this wall was the occasion on which his memorial tablet was inscribed.

The memorial tablet was buried and bricked up within the actual structure of the wall, in order
that in future ages it might be read by those who found it, and so it might preserve his name
and fame. After finishing the account of his building operations in the new city and recording
the completion of the city wall from its foundation to its coping stone, the king makes an
appeal to any future ruler who should find it, in the following words: "In the days that are
to come, when this wall shall have grown old and shall have fallen into ruins, may a future
prince repair the damaged parts thereof, and may he anoint my memorial tablet with oil, and
may he offer sacrifices and restore it unto its place, and then Ashur will hearken unto his
prayers. But whosoever shall destroy this wall, or shall remove my memorial tablet or my name
that is inscribed thereon, or shall leave Kar-Tukulti-Ninib, the city of my dominion, desolate,
or shall destroy it, may the lord Ashur overthrow his kingdom, and may he break his weapons,
and may he cause his warriors to be defeated, and may he diminish his boundaries, and may he
ordain that his rule shall be cut off, and on his days may he bring sorrow, and his years may
he make evil, and may he blot out his name and his seed from the land!"

By such blessings and curses Tukulti-Ninib hoped to ensure the preservation of his name and
the rebuilding of his city, should it at any time be neglected and fall into decay. Curiously
enough, it was in this very city that Tukulti-Ninib met his own fate less than seven years
after he had founded it. At that time one of his own sons, who bore the name of Ashur-nasir-pal,
conspired against his father and stirred up the nobles to revolt. The insurrection was arranged
when Tukulti-Ninib was absent from his capital and staying in Kar-Tukulti-Ninib, where he was
probably protected by only a small bodyguard, the bulk of his veteran warriors remaining behind
in garrison at Ashur. The insurgent nobles, headed by Ashur-nasir-pal, fell upon the king without
warning when he was passing through the city without any suspicion of risk from a treacherous
attack. The king defended himself and sought refuge in a neighbouring house, but the conspirators
surrounded the building and, having forced an entrance, slew him with the sword. Thus Tukulti-Ninib
perished in the city he had built and beautified with the spoils of his campaigns, where he
had looked forward to passing a peaceful and secure old age. Of the fate of the city itself
we know little except that its site is marked to-day by a few mounds which rise slightly above
the level of the surrounding desert. The king's memorial tablet only has survived. For some
3,200 years it rested undisturbed in the foundations of the wall of unburnt brick, where it
was buried by Tukulti-Ninib on the completion of the city wall.

     King of Assyria, about B. C. 1275.

Thence it was removed by the hands of modern Arabs, and it is now preserved in the British
Museum, where the characters of the inscription may be seen to be as sharp and uninjured as
on the day when the Assyrian graver inscribed them by order of the king.

In the account of his first campaign, which is preserved upon the memorial tablet, it is stated
that the peoples conquered by Tukulti-Ninib brought their yearly tribute to the city of Ashur.
This fact is of considerable interest, for it proves that Tukulti-Ninib restored the capital
of Assyria to the city of Ashur, removing it from Calah, whither it had been transferred by
his father Shalmaneser I. The city of Calah had been founded and built by Shalmaneser I in
the same way that his son Tukulti-Ninib built the city of Kar-Tukulti-Ninib, and the building
of both cities is striking evidence of the rapid growth of Assyria and her need of expansion
around fresh centres prepared for administration and defence. The shifting of the Assyrian
capital to Calah by Shalmaneser I was also due to the extension of Assyrian power in the north,
in consequence of which there was need of having the capital nearer the centre of the country
so enlarged. Ashur's recovery of her old position under Tukulti-Ninib I was only a temporary
check to this movement northwards, and, so long as Babylon remained a conquered province of
the Assyrian empire, obviously the need for a capital farther north than Ashur would not have
been pressing.

But with Tukulti-Ninib's death Babylon regained her independence and freed herself from Assyrian
control, and the centre of the northern kingdom was once more subject to the influences which
eventually resulted in the permanent transference of her capital to Nineveh. To the comparative
neglect into which Ashur and Calah consequently fell, we may probably trace the extensive remains
of buildings belonging to the earlier periods of Assyrian history which have been recovered
and still remain to be found, in the mounds that mark their sites.

We have given some account of the results already achieved from the excavations carried out
during the last two years at Sherghat, the site of the city of Ashur. That much remains to
be done on the site of Calah, the other early capital of Assyria, is evident from even a cursory
examination of the present condition of the mounds that mark the location of the city. These
mounds are now known by the name of Nimrûd and are situated on the left or eastern bank of
the Tigris, a short distance above the point at which it is joined by the stream of the Upper
Zâb, and the great mound which still covers the remains of the ziggurat, or temple tower, can
be seen from a considerable distance across the plain. During the excavations formerly carried
out here for the British Museum, remains of palaces were recovered which had been built or
restored by Shal-maneser I, Ashur-nasir-pal, Shalmaneser II, Tiglath-pileser III, Sargon, Esarhaddon,
and Ashur-etil-ilâni. After the conclusion of the diggings and the removal of many of the sculptures
to England, the site was covered again with earth, in order to protect the remains of Assyrian
buildings which were left in place. Since that time the soil has sunk and been washed away
by the rains so that many of the larger sculptures are now protruding above the soil, an example
of which is seen in the two winged bulls in the palace of Ashur-nasir-pal. It is improbable
that the mounds of Nimrûd will yield such rich results as Sherghat, but the site would probably
well repay prolonged and systematic excavation.

We have hitherto summarized and described the principal facts, with regard to the early history
of Babylonia and Assyria and the neighbouring countries, which have been obtained from the
excavations conducted recently on the sites of ancient cities. From the actual remains of the
buildings that have been unearthed we have secured information with regard to the temples and
palaces of ancient rulers and the plans on which they were designed. Erom the objects of daily
life and of religious use which have been recovered, such as weapons of bronze and iron, and
vessels of metal, stone, and clay, it is possible for the archaeologist to draw conclusions
with regard to the customs of these early peoples; while from a study of their style and workmanship
and of such examples of their sculpture as have been brought to light, he may determine the
stage of artistic development at which they had arrived. The clay tablets and stone monuments
that have been recovered reveal the family life of the people, their commercial undertakings,
their system of legislation and land tenure, their epistolary correspondence, and the administration
under which they lived, while the royal inscriptions and foundation-memorials throw light on
the religious and historical events of the period in which they were inscribed. Information
on all these points has been acquired as the result of excavation, and is based on the discoveries
in the ruins of early cities which have remained buried beneath the soil for some thousands
of years. But for the history of Assyria and of the other nations in the north there is still
another source of information to which reference must now be made.

The kings of Assyria were not content with recording their achievements on the walls of their
buildings, on stelae set up in their palaces and temples, on their tablets of annals preserved
in their archive-chambers, and on their cylinders and foundation-memorials concealed within
the actual structure of the buildings themselves. They have also left records graven in the
living rock, and these have never been buried, but have been exposed to wind and weather from
the moment they were engraved. Records of irrigation works and military operations successfully
undertaken by Assyrian kings remain to this day on the face of the mountains to the north and
east of Assyria. The kings of one great mountain race that had its capital at Van borrowed
from the Assyrians this method of recording their achievements, and, adopting the Assyrian
character, have left numerous rock-inscriptions in their own language in the mountains of Armenia
and Kurdistan. In some instances the action of rain and frost has nearly if not quite obliterated
the record, and a few have been defaced by the hand of man. But as the majority are engraved
in panels cut on the sheer face of the rock, and are inaccessible except by means of ropes
and tackle, they have escaped mutilation. The photograph reproduced will serve to show the
means that must be adopted for reaching such rock-inscriptions in order to examine or copy them.

     In The Gorge Of The River Gomel, Near Bavian.

The inscription shown in the photograph is one of those cut by Sennacherib in the gorge near
Bavian, through which the river Gomel flows, and can be reached only by climbing down ropes
fixed to the top of the cliff. The choice of such positions by the kings who caused the inscriptions
to be engraved was dictated by the desire to render it difficult to destroy them, but it has
also had the effect of delaying to some extent their copying and decipherment by modern workers.

     Near Bavian In Assyria.

Considerable progress, however, has recently been made in identifying and copying these texts,
and we may here give a short account of what has been done and of the information furnished
by the inscriptions that have been examined.

Recently considerable additions have been made to our knowledge of the ancient empire of Van
and of its relation to the later kings of Assyria by the labours of Prof Lehmann and Dr. Belck
on the inscriptions which the kings of that period caused to be engraved upon the rocks among
the mountains of Armenia.

The flat roofs of the houses of the city of Van may be seen to the left of the photograph nestling
below the rock.

The centre and capital of this empire was the ancient city which stood on the site of the modern
town of Van at the southwest corner of the lake which bears the same name. The city was built
at the foot of a natural rock which rises precipitously from the plain, and must have formed
an impregnable stronghold against the attack of the foe.

In this citadel at the present day remain the ancient galleries and staircases and chambers
which were cut in the living rock by the kings who made it their fortress, and their inscriptions,
engraved upon the face of the rock on specially prepared and polished surfaces, enable us to
reconstruct in some degree the history of that ancient empire. From time to time there have
been found and copied other similar texts, which are cut on the mountainsides or on the massive
stones which formed part of the construction of their buildings and fortifications. A complete
collection of these texts, together with translations, will shortly be published by Prof. Lehmann.
Meanwhile, this scholar has discussed and summarized the results to be obtained from much of
his material, and we are thus already enabled to sketch the principal achievements of the rulers
of this mountain race, who were constantly at war with the later kings of Assyria, and for
two centuries at least disputed her claim to supremacy in this portion of Western Asia.

The country occupied by this ancient people of Van was the great table-land which now forms
Armenia. The people themselves cannot be connected with the Armenians, for their language presents
no characteristics of those of the Indo-European family, and it is equally certain that they
are not to be traced to a Semitic origin. It is true that they employed the Assyrian method
of writing their inscriptions, and their art differs only in minor points from that of the
Assyrians, but in both instances this similarity of culture was directly borrowed at a time
when the less civilized race, having its centre at Van, came into direct contact with the Assyrians.

It was not difficult for the Assyrian king to assault and capture the city itself, which lay
at the foot of the citadel as it does at the present day, but the latter, within the fortifications
of which Sarduris and his garrison withdrew, proved itself able to withstand the Assyrian attack.
The expedition of Tiglath-pileser III did not succeed in crushing the Vannic empire, for Rusas
I, the son and successor of Sarduris II, allied himself to the neighbouring mountain races
and gave considerable trouble to Sargon, the Assyrian king, who was obliged to undertake an
expedition to check their aggressions.

It was probably Rusas I who erected the buildings on Toprak Kala, the hill to the east of Van,
traces of which remain to the present day. He built a palace and a temple, and around them
he constructed a new city with a reservoir to supply it with water, possibly because the slopes
of Toprak Kala rendered it easier of defence than the city in the plain (beneath the rock and
citadel) which had fallen an easy prey to Tiglath-pileser III. The site of the temple on Toprak
Kala has been excavated by the trustees of the British Museum, and our knowledge of Vannic
art is derived from the shields and helmets of bronze and small bronze figures and fittings
which were recovered from this building. One of the shields brought to the British Museum from
the Toprak Kala, where it originally hung with others on the temple walls, bears the name of
Argistis II, who was the son and successor of Rusas I, and who attempted to give trouble to
the Assyrians by stirring the inhabitants of the land of Kummukh (Kommagene) to revolt against
Sargon. His son, Rusas II, was the contemporary of Esarhaddon, and from some recently discovered
rock-inscriptions we learn that he extended the limits of his kingdom on the west and secured
victories against Mushki (Meshech) to the southeast of the Halys and against the Hittites in
Northern Syria. Rusas III rebuilt the temple on Toprak Kala, as we know from an inscription
of his on one of the shields from that place in the British Museum. Both he and Sarduris III
were on friendly terms with the Assyrians, for we know that they both sent embassies to Ashur-bani-pal.

By far the larger number of rock-inscriptions that have yet been found and copied in the mountainous
districts bordering on Assyria were engraved by this ancient Vannic people, and Drs. Lehmann
and Belck have done good service by making careful copies and collations of all those which
are at present known. Work on other classes of rock-inscriptions has also been carried on by
other travellers. A new edition of the inscriptions of Sennacherib in the gorge of the Gomel,
near the village of Bavian, has been made by Mr. King, who has also been fortunate enough to
find a number of hitherto unknown inscriptions in Kurdistan on the Judi Dagh and at the sources
of the Tigris. The inscriptions at the mouth of the Nahr el-Kelb, "the Dog River," in Syria,
have been reexamined by Dr. Knudtzon, and the long inscription which Nebuchadnezzar II cut
on the rocks at Wadi Brissa in the Lebanon, formerly published by M. Pognon, has been recopied
by Dr. Weissbach. Finally, the great trilingual inscription of Darius Hystaspes on the rock
at Bisutun in Persia, which was formerly copied by the late Sir Henry Raw-linson and used by
him for the successful decipherment of the cuneiform inscriptions, was completely copied last
year by Messrs. King and Thompson.

     Messrs. King and Thompson are preparing a new edition of
     this inscription.

The main facts of the history of Assyria under her later kings and of Babylonia during the
Neo-Babylonian and Persian periods were many years ago correctly ascertained, and recent excavation
and research have done little to add to our knowledge of the history of these periods. It was
hoped that the excavations conducted by Dr. Koldewey at Babylon would result in the recovery
of a wealth of inscriptions and records referring to the later history of the country, but
unfortunately comparatively few tablets or inscriptions have been found, and those that have
been recovered consist mainly of building-inscriptions and votive texts. One such building-inscription
contains an interesting historical reference. It occurs on a barrel-cylinder of clay inscribed
with a text of Nabopolassar, and it was found in the temple of Ninib and records the completion
and restoration of the temple by the king. In addition to recording the building operations
he had carried out in the temple, Nabopolassar boasts of his opposition to the Assyrians. He
says: "As for the Assyrians who had ruled all peoples from distant days and had set the people
of the land under a heavy yoke, I, the weak and humble man who worshippeth the Lord of Lords
(i.e. the god Marduk), through the mighty power of Nabû and Marduk, my lords, held back their
feet from the land of Akkad and cast off their yoke."

It is not yet certain whether the Babylonians under Nabopolassar actively assisted Cyaxares
and the Medes in the siege and in the subsequent capture of Nineveh in 606 B.C. but this newly
discovered reference to the Assyrians by Nabopolassar may possibly be taken to imply that the
Babylonians were passive and not active allies of Cyaxares. If the cylinder were inscribed
after the fall of Nineveh we should have expected Nabopolassar, had he taken an active part
in the capture of the city, to have boasted in more definite terms of his achievement. On his
stele which is preserved at Constantinople, Nabonidus, the last king of the Neo-Babylonian
empire, who himself suffered defeat at the hands of Cyrus, King of Persia, ascribed the fall
of Nineveh to the anger of Marduk and the other gods of Babylon because of the destruction
of their city and the spoliation of their temples by Sennacherib in 689 B.C. We see the irony
of fate in the fact that Cyrus also ascribed the defeat and deposition of Nabonidus and the
fall of Babylon to Marduk's intervention, whose anger he alleges was aroused by the attempt
of Nabonidus to concentrate the worship of the local city-gods in Babylon.

Thus it will be seen that recent excavation and research have not yet supplied the data for
filling in such gaps as still remain in our knowledge of the later history of Assyria and Babylon.
The closing years of the Assyrian empire and the military achievements of the great Neo-Babylonian
rulers, Nabopolassar, Nerig-lissar, and Nebuchadnezzar II, have not yet been found recorded
in any published Assyrian or Babylonian inscription, but it may be expected that at any moment
some text will be discovered that will throw light upon the problems connected with the history
of those periods which still await solution. Meanwhile, the excavations at Babylon, although
they have not added much to our knowledge of the later history of the country, have been of
immense service in revealing the topography of the city during the Neo-Babylonian period, as
well as the positions, plans, and characters of the principal buildings erected by the later
Babylonian kings. The discovery of the palaces of Nebuchadnezzar II on the mound of the Kasr,
of the small but complete temple E-makh, of the temple of the goddess Nin-makh to the northeast
of the palaces, and of the sacred road dividing them and passing through the Great Gate of
Ishtar (adorned with representations of lions, bulls, and dragons in raised brick upon its
walls) has enabled us to form some conception of the splendour and magnificence of the city
as it appeared when rebuilt by its last native rulers. Moreover, the great temple E-sagila,
the famous shrine of the god Marduk, has been identified and partly excavated beneath the huge
mound of Tell Amran ibn-Ali, while a smaller and less famous temple of Ninib has been discovered
in the lower mounds which lie to the eastward. Finally, the sacred way from E-sagila to the
palace mound has been traced and uncovered. We are thus enabled to reconstitute the scene of
the most solemn rite of the Babylonian festival of the New Year, when the statue of the god
Marduk was carried in solemn procession along this road from the temple to the palace, and
the Babylonian king made his yearly obeisance to the national god, placing his own hands within
those of Marduk, in token of his submission to and dependence on the divine will.

Though recent excavations have not led to any startling discoveries with regard to the history
of Western Asia during the last years of the Babylonian empire, research among the tablets
dating from the Neo-Babylonian and Persian periods has lately added considerably to our knowledge
of Babylonian literature. These periods were marked by great literary activity on the part
of the priests at Babylon, Sippar, and elsewhere, who, under the royal orders, scoured the
country for all remains of the early literature which was preserved in the ancient temples
and archives of the country, and made careful copies and collections of all they found. Many
of these tablets containing Neo-Babylonian copies of earlier literary texts are preserved in
the British Museum, and have been recently published, and we have thus recovered some of the
principal grammatical, religious, and magical compositions of the earlier Babylonian period.

     Between The Mound Of The Kasr And Tell Amran Ibn-Ali,
     Showing A Section Of The Paved Sacred Way.

Among the most interesting of such recent finds is a series of tablets inscribed with the Babylonian
legends concerning the creation of the world and man, which present many new and striking parallels
to the beliefs on these subjects embodied in Hebrew literature. We have not space to treat
this subject at greater length in the present work, but we may here note that discovery and
research in its relation to the later empires that ruled at Babylon have produced results of
literary rather than of historical importance. But we should exceed the space at our disposal
if we attempted even to skim this fascinating field of study in which so much has recently
been achieved. For it is time we turned once more to Egypt and directed our inquiry towards
ascertaining what recent research has to tell us with regard to her inhabitants during the
later periods of her existence as a nation of the ancient world.

CHAPTER IX--THE LAST DAYS OF ANCIENT EGYPT

Before we turned from Egypt to summarize the information, afforded by recent discoveries, upon
the history of Western Asia under the kings of the Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian periods, we
noted that the Asiatic empire of Egypt was regained by the reactionary kings of the XIXth Dynasty,
after its temporary loss owing to the vagaries of Akhunaten. Palestine remained Egyptian throughout
the period of the judges until the foundation of the kingdom of Judah. With the decline of
military spirit in Egypt and the increasing power of the priesthood, authority over Asia became
less and less a reality. Tribute was no longer paid, and the tribes wrangled without a restraining
hand, during the reigns of the successors of Ramses III. By the time of the priest-kings of
Thebes (the XXIst Dynasty) the authority of the Pharaohs had ceased to be exercised in Syria.
Egypt was itself divided into two kingdoms, the one ruled by Northern descendants of the Ramessids
at Tanis, the other by the priestly monarchs at Thebes, who reigned by right of inheritance
as a result of the marriage of the daughter of Ramses with the high priest Amenhetep, father
of Herhor, the first priest-king. The Thebans fortified Gebelên in the South and el-Hêbi in
the North against attack, and evidently their relations with the Tanites were not always friendly.

In Syria nothing of the imperial power remained. The prestige of the god Amen of Thebes, however,
was still very great. We see this clearly from a very interesting papyrus of the reign of Herhor,
published in 1899 by Mr. Golenischeff, which describes the adventures of Uenuamen, an envoy
sent (about 1050 B.C.) to Phoenicia to bring wood from the mountains of Lebanon for the construction
of a great festival bark of the god Amen at Thebes. In the course of his mission he was very
badly treated (We cannot well imagine Thothmes III or Amenhetep III tolerating ill-treatment
of their envoy!) and eventually shipwrecked on the coast of the land of Alashiya or Cyprus.
He tells us in the papyrus, which seems to be the official report of his mission, that, having
been given letters of credence to the Prince of Byblos from the King of Tanis, "to whom Amen
had given charge of his North-land," he at length reached Phoenicia, and after much discussion
and argument was able to prevail upon the prince to have the wood which he wanted brought down
from Lebanon to the seashore.

Here, however, a difficulty presented itself,--the harbour was filled with the piratical ships
of the Cretan Tjakaray, who refused to allow Uenuamen to return to Egypt. They said, 'Seize
him; let no ship of his go unto the land of Egypt!' "Then," says Uenuamen in the papyrus, "I
sat down and wept. The scribe of the prince came out unto me; he said unto me, 'What ail-eth
thee?' I replied, 'Seest thou not the birds which fly, which fly back unto Egypt? Look at them,
they go unto the cool canal, and how long do I remain abandoned here? Seest thou not those
who would prevent my return?' He went away and spoke unto the prince, who began to weep at
the words which were told unto him and which were so sad. He sent his scribe out unto me, who
brought me two measures of wine and a deer. He sent me Tentnuet, an Egyptian singing-girl who
was with him, saying unto her, 'Sing unto him, that he may not grieve!' He sent word unto me,
'Eat, drink, and grieve not! To-morrow shalt thou hear all that I shall say.' On the morrow
he had the people of his harbour summoned, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said unto
the Tjakaray, 'What aileth you?' They answered him, 'We will pursue the piratical ships which
thou sendest unto Egypt with our unhappy companions.' He said unto them, 'I cannot seize the
ambassador of Amen in my land. Let me send him away and then do ye pursue after him to seize
him!' He sent me on board, and he sent me away... to the haven of the sea. The wind drove me
upon the land of Alashiya. The people of the city came out in order to slay me. I was dragged
by them to the place where Hatiba, the queen of the city, was. I met her as she was going out
of one of her houses into the other. I greeted her and said unto the people who stood by her,
'Is there not one among you who understandeth the speech of Egypt?' One of them replied, 'I
understand it.' I said unto him, 'Say unto thy mistress: even as far as the city in which Amen
dwelleth (i. e. Thebes) have I heard the proverb, "In all cities is injustice done; only in
Alashiya is justice to be found," and now is injustice done here every day!' She said, 'What
is it that thou sayest?' I said unto her, 'Since the sea raged and the wind drove me upon the
land in which thou livest, therefore thou wilt not allow them to seize my body and to kill
me, for verily I am an ambassador of Amen. Remember that I am one who will be sought for always.
And if these men of the Prince of Byblos whom they seek to kill (are killed), verily if their
chief finds ten men of thine, will he not kill them also?' She summoned the men, and they were
brought before her. She said unto me, 'Lie down and sleep...'"

At this point the papyrus breaks off, and we do not know how Uenuamen returned to Egypt with
his wood. The description of his casting-away and landing on Alashiya is quite Homeric, and
gives a vivid picture of the manners of the time. The natural impulse of the islanders is to
kill the strange castaway, and only the fear of revenge and of the wrath of a distant foreign
deity restrains them. Alashiya is probably Cyprus, which also bore the name Yantinay from the
time of Thothmes III until the seventh century, when it is called Yatnan by the Assyrians.
A king of Alashiya corresponded with Amenhetep III in cuneiform on terms of perfect equality,
three hundred years before: "Brother," he writes, "should the small amount of the copper which
I have sent thee be displeasing unto thy heart, it is because in my land the hand of Nergal
my lord slew all the men of my land (i.e. they died of the plague), and there was no working
of copper; and this was, my brother, not pleasing unto thy heart. Thy messenger with my messenger
swiftly will I send, and whatsoever amount of copper thou hast asked for, O my brother, I,
even I, will send it unto thee." The mention by Herhor's envoy of Nesibinebdad (Smendes), the
King of Tanis, a powerful ruler who in reality constantly threatened the existence of the priestly
monarchy at Thebes, as "him to whom Amen has committed the wardship of his North-land," is
distinctly amusing. The hard fact of the independence of Lower Egypt had to be glozed somehow.

The days of Theban power were coming to an end and only the prestige of the god Amen remained
strong for two hundred years more. But the alliance of Amen and his priests with a band of
predatory and destroying foreign conquerors, the Ethiopians (whose rulers were the descendants
of the priest-kings, who retired to Napata on the succession of the powerful Bubastite dynasty
of Shishak to that of Tanis, abandoning Thebes to the Northerners), did much to destroy the
prestige of Amen and of everything connected with him. An Ethiopian victory meant only an Assyrian
reconquest, and between them Ethiopians and Assyrians had well-nigh ruined Egypt. In the Saïte
period Thebes had declined greatly in power as well as in influence, and all its traditions
were anathema to the leading people of the time, although not of course in Akhunaten's sense.

With the Saïte period we seem almost to have retraced our steps and to have reentered the age
of the Pyramid Builders. All the pomp and glory of Thothmes, Amenhetep, and Ramses were gone.
The days of imperial Egypt were over, and the minds of men, sickened of foreign war, turned
for peace and quietness to the simpler ideals of the IVth and Vth Dynasties. We have already
seen that an archaistic revival of the styles of the early dynasties is characteristic of this
late period, and that men were buried at Sakkâra and at Thebes in tombs which recall in form
and decoration those of the courtiers of the Pyramid Builders. Everywhere we see this fashion
of archaism. A Theban noble of this period named Aba was buried at Thebes. Long ago, nearly
three thousand years before, under the VIth Dynasty, there had lived a great noble of the same
name, who was buried in a rock-tomb at Dêr el-Gebrâwî, in Middle Egypt. This tomb was open
and known in the days of the second Aba, who caused to be copied and reproduced in his tomb
in the Asasîf at Thebes most of the scenes from the bas-relief with which it had been decorated.
The tomb of the VIth Dynasty Aba has lately been copied for the Archaeological Survey of Egypt
(Egypt Exploration Fund) by Mr. de Garis Davies, who has found the reliefs of the XXVIth Dynasty
Aba of considerable use to him in reconstituting destroyed portions of their ancient originals.

During late years important discoveries of objects of this era have been few. One of the most
noteworthy is that of a contemporary inscription describing the battle of Momemphis, which
is mentioned by Herodotus (ii, 163, 169). We now have the official account of this battle,
and know that it took place in the third year of the reign of Amasis--not before he became
king. This was the fight in which the unpatriotic king, Apries, who had paid for his partiality
for the Greeks of Nau-kratis with the loss of his throne, was finally defeated. As we see from
this inscription, he was probably murdered by the country people during his flight.

The following are the most important passages of the inscription: "His Majesty (Amasis) was
in the Festival-Hall, discussing plans for his whole land, when one came to say unto him, 'Hââ-ab-Râ
(Apries) is rowing up; he hath gone on board the ships which have crossed over. Haunebu (Greeks),
one knows not their number, are traversing the North-land, which is as if it had no master
to rule it; he (Apries) hath summoned them, they are coming round him. It is he who hath arranged
their settlement in the Peh-ân (the An-dropolite name); they infest the whole breadth of Egypt,
those who are on thy waters fly before them!'... His Majesty mounted his chariot, having taken
lance and bow in his hand... (the enemy) reached Andropolis; the soldiers sang with joy on
the roads... they did their duty in destroying the enemy. His Majesty fought like a lion; he
made victims among them, one knows not how many. The ships and their warriors were overturned,
they saw the depths as do the fishes. Like a flame he extended, making a feast of fighting.
His heart rejoiced.... The third year, the 8th Athyr, one came to tell Majesty: 'Let their
vile-ness be ended! They throng the roads, there are thousands there ravaging the land; they
fill every road. Those who are in ships bear thy terror in their hearts. But it is not yet
finished.' Said his Majesty unto his soldiers: '...Young men and old men, do this in the cities
and nomes!'... Going upon every road, let not a day pass without fighting their galleys!'...
The land was traversed as by the blast of a tempest, destroying their ships, which were abandoned
by the crews. The people accomplished their fate, killing the prince (Apries) on his couch,
when he had gone to repose in his cabin. When he saw his friend overthrown... his Majesty himself
buried him (Apries), in order to establish him as a king possessing virtue, for his Majesty
decreed that the hatred of the gods should be removed from him."

This is the event to which we have already referred in a preceding chapter, as proving the
great amelioration of Egyptian ideas with regard to the treatment of a conquered enemy, as
compared with those of other ancient nations. Amasis refers to the deposed monarch as his "friend,"
and buries him in a manner befitting a king at the charges of Amasis himself. This act warded
off from the spirit of Apries the just anger of the gods at his partiality for the "foreign
devils," and ensured his reception by Osiris as a king neb menkh, "possessing virtues."

The town of Naukratis, where Apries established himself, had been granted to the Greek traders
by Psametik I a century or more before. Mr. D. G. Hogarth's recent exploration of the site
has led to a considerable modification of our first ideas of the place, which were obtained
from Prof. Petrie 's excavations. Prof. Petrie was the discoverer of Naukratis, and his diggings
told us what Naukratis was like in the first instance, but Mr. Hogarth has shown that several
of his identifications were erroneous and that the map of the place must be redrawn. The chief
error was in the placing of the Hellenion (the great meeting-place of the Greeks), which is
now known to be in quite a different position from that assigned to it by Prof. Petrie. The
"Great Temenos" of Prof. Petrie has now been shown to be non-existent. Mr. Hogarth has also
pointed out that an old Egyptian town existed at Nau-kratis long before the Greeks came there.
This town is mentioned on a very interesting stele of black basalt (discovered at Tell Gaif,
the site of Naukratis, and now in the Cairo Museum), under the name of "Permerti, which is
called Nukrate." The first is the old Egyptian name, the second the Greek name adapted to Egyptian
hieroglyphs. The stele was erected by Tekhtnebf, the last native king of Egypt, to commemorate
his gifts to the temples of Neïth on the occasion of his accession at Sais. It is beautifully
cut, and the inscription is written in a curious manner, with alphabetic spellings instead
of ideographs, and ideographs instead of alphabetic spellings, which savours fully of the affectation
of the learned pedant who drafted it; for now, of course, in the fourth century before Christ,
nobody but a priestly antiquarian could read hieroglyphics. Demotic was the only writing for
practical purposes.

We see this fact well illustrated in the inscriptions of the Ptolemaïc temples. The accession
of the Ptolemies marked a great increase in the material wealth of Egypt, and foreign conquest
again came in fashion. Ptolemy Euergetes marched into Asia in the grand style of a Ramses and
brought back the images of gods which had been carried off by Esarhaddon or Nebuchadnezzar
II centuries before. He was received on his return to Egypt with acclamations as a true successor
of the Pharaohs. The imperial spirit was again in vogue, and the archaistic simplicity and
independence of the Saïtes gave place to an archaistic imperialism, the first-fruits of which
were the repair and building of temples in the great Pharaonic style. On these we see the Ptolemies
masquerading as Pharaohs, and the climax of absurdity is reached when Ptolemy Auletes (the
Piper) is seen striking down Asiatic enemies in the manner of Amen-hetep or Ramses! This scene
is directly copied from a Ramesside temple, and we find imitations of reliefs of Ramses II
so slavish that the name of the earlier king is actually copied, as well as the relief, and
appears above the figure of a Ptolemy. The names of the nations who were conquered by Thothmes
III are repeated on Ptolemaic sculptures to do duty for the conquered of Euergetes, with all
sorts of mistakes in spelling, naturally, and also with later interpolations. Such an inscription
is that in the temple of Kom Ombo, which Prof. Say ce has held to contain the names of "Caphtor
and Casluhim" and to prove the knowledge of the latter name in the fourteenth century before
Christ. The name of Caphtor is the old Egyptian Keftiu (Crete); that of Casluhim is unknown
in real Old Egyptian inscriptions, and in this Ptolemaic list at Kom Ombo it may be quite a
late interpolation in the lists, perhaps no older than the Persian period, since we find the
names of Parsa (Persia) and Susa, which were certainly unknown to Thothmes III, included in
it. We see generally from the Ptolemaic inscriptions that nobody could read them but a few
priests, who often made mistakes. One of the most serious was the identification of Keftiu
with Phoenicia in the Stele of Canopus. This misled modern archaeologists down to the time
of Dr. Evans's discoveries at Knossos, though how these utterly un-Semitic looking Keftiu could
have been Phoenicians was a puzzle to everybody. We now know, of course, that they were Mycenaean
or Minoan Cretans, and that the Ptolemaic antiquaries made a mistake in identifying the land
of Keftiu with Phoenicia.

We must not, however, say too much in dispraise of the Ptolemaic Egyptians and their works.
We have to be grateful to them indeed for the building of the temples of Edfu and Dendera,
which, owing to their later date, are still in good preservation, while the best preserved
of the old Pharaonic fanes, such as Medinet Habû, have suffered considerably from the ravages
of time. Eor these temples show us to-day what an old Egyptian temple, when perfect, really
looked like. They are, so to speak, perfect mummies of temples, while of the old buildings
we have nothing but the disjointed and damaged skeletons.

A good deal of repairing has been done to these buildings, especially to that at Edfu, of late
years. But the main archaeological interest of Ptolemaic and Roman times has been found in
the field of epigraphy and the study of papyri, with which the names of Messrs. Kenyon, Grenfell,
and Hunt are chiefly connected. The treasures which have lately been obtained by the British
Museum in the shape of the manuscripts of Aristotle's "Constitution of Athens," the lost poems
of Bacchylides, and the Mimes of Herondas, all of which have been published for the trustees
of that institution by Mr. Kenyon, are known to those who are interested in these subjects.
The long series of publications of Messrs. Grenfell and Hunt, issued at the expense of the
Egypt Exploration Fund (Graeco-Roman branch), with the exception of the volume of discoveries
at Teb-tunis, which was issued by the University of California, is also well known.

The two places with which Messrs. Grenfell and Hunt's work has been chiefly connected are the
Fayyûm and Behnesâ, the site of the ancient Permje or Oxyr-rhynchus. The lake-province of the
Fayyûm, which attained such prominence in the days of the XIIth Dynasty, seems to have had
little or no history during the whole period of the New Empire, but in Ptolemaic times it revived
and again became one of the richest and most important provinces of Egypt. The town of Arsinoë
was founded at Crocodilopolis, where are now the mounds of Kom el-Fâris (The Mound of the Horseman),
near Medinet el-Payyum, and became the capital of the province. At Illahûn, just outside the
entrance to the Fayyûm, was the great Nile harbour and entrepôt of the lake-district, called
Ptolemaïs Hormos.

The explorations of Messrs. Hogarth, Grenfell, and Hunt in the years of 1895-6 and 1898-9 resulted
in the identification of the sites of the ancient cities of Karanis (Kom Ushîm), Bacchias (Omm
el-'Atl), Euhemeria (Kasr el-Banât), Theadelphia (Harît), and Philoteris (Wadfa). The work
for the University of California in 18991900 at Umm el-Baragat showed that this place was Tebtunis.
Dime, on the northern coast of the Birket Karûn, the modern representative of the ancient Lake
Moeris, is now known to be the ancient Sokno-paiou Nesos (the Isle of Soknopaios), a local
form of Sebek, the crocodile-god of the Fayyûm. At Karanis this god was worshipped under the
name of Petesuchos ("He whom Sebek has given"), in conjunction with Osiris Pnepherôs (P-nefer-ho,
"the beautiful of face"); at Tebtunis he became Seknebtunis., i.e. Sebek-neb-Teb-tunis (Sebek,
lord of Tebtunis). This is a typical example of the portmanteau pronunciations of the latter-day
Egyptians.

Many very interesting discoveries were made during the course of the excavations of these places
(besides Mr. Hogarth's find of the temple of Petesuchos and Pnepherôs at Karanis), consisting
of Roman pottery of varied form and Roman agricultural implements, including a perfect plough.*
The main interest of all, however, lies, both here and at Behnesâ, in the papyri. They consist
of Greek and Latin documents of all ages from the early Ptolemaic to the Christian. In fact,
Messrs. Grenfell and Hunt have been unearthing and sifting the contents of the waste-paper
baskets of the ancient Ptolemaic and Roman Egyptians, which had been thrown out on to dust-heaps
near the towns. Nothing perishes in,, the dry climate and soil of Egypt, so the contents of
the ancient dust-heaps have been preserved intact until our own day, and have been found by
Messrs. Grenfell and Hunt, just as the contents of the houses of the ancient Indian rulers
of Chinese Turkestan, at Niya and Khotan, with their store of Kha-roshthi documents, have been
preserved intact in the dry Tibetan desert climate and have been found by Dr. Stein.** There
is much analogy between the discoveries of Messrs. Grenfell and Hunt in Egypt and those of
Dr. Stein in Turkestan.

     * Illustrated on Plate IX of Fayûm Towns and Their Papyri.

     ** See Dr. Stein's Sand-buried Ruins of Khotan, London,
     1903.

The Græco-Egyptian documents are of all kinds, consisting of letters, lists, deeds, notices,
tax-assessments, receipts, accounts, and business records of every sort and kind, besides new
fragments of classical authors and the important "Sayings of Jesus," discovered at Behnesâ,
which have been published in a special popular form by the Egypt Exploration Fund.*

     * Aoyla 'Itjffov, 1897, and New Sayings of Jesus, 1904.

These last fragments of the oldest Christian literature, which are of such great importance
and interest to all Christians, cannot be described or discussed here. The other documents
are no less important to the student of ancient literature, the historian, and the sociologist.
The classical fragments include many texts of lost authors, including Menander. We will give
a few specimens of the private letters and documents, which will show how extremely modern
the ancient Egyptians were, and how little difference there actually is between our civilization
and theirs, except in the-matter of mechanical invention. They had no locomotives and telephones;
otherwise they were the same. We resemble them much more than we resemble our mediaeval ancestors
or even the Elizabethans.

This is a boy's letter to his father, who would not take him up to town with him to see the
sights: "Theon to his father Theon, greeting. It was a fine thing of you not to take me with
you to the city! If you won't take me with you to Alexandria, I won't write you a letter, or
speak to you, or say good-bye to you; and if you go to Alexandria I won't take your hand or
ever greet you again. That is what will happen if you won't take me. Mother said to Archelaus,
'It quite upsets him to be left behind.' It was good of you to send me presents on the 12th,
the day you sailed. Send me a lyre, I implore you. If you don't, I won't eat, I won't drink:
there now!'" Is not this more like the letter of a spoiled child of to-day than are the solemnly
dutiful epistles of even our grandfathers and grandmothers when young? The touch about "Mother
said to Archelaus, 'It quite upsets him to be left behind'" is delightfully like the modern
small boy, and the final request and threat are also eminently characteristic.

Here is a letter asking somebody to redeem the writer's property from the pawnshop: "Now please
redeem my property from Sarapion. It is pledged for two minas. I have paid the interest up
to the month Epeiph, at the rate of a stater per mina. There is a casket of incense-wood, and
another of onyx, a tunic, a white veil with a real purple border, a handkerchief, a tunic with
a Laconian stripe, a garment of purple linen, two armlets, a necklace, a coverlet, a figure
of Aphrodite, a cup, a big tin flask, and a wine-jar. From Onetor get the two bracelets. They
have been pledged since the month Tybi of last year for eight... at the rate of a stater per
mina. If the cash is insufficient owing to the carelessness of Theagenis, if, I say, it is
insufficient, sell the bracelets and make up the money." Here is an affectionate letter of
invitation: "Greeting, my dear Serenia, from Petosiris. Be sure, dear, to come up on the 20th
for the birthday festival of the god, and let me know whether you are coming by boat or by
donkey, that we may send for you accordingly. Take care not to forget."

Here is an advertisement of a gymnastic display:

"The assault-at-arms by the youths will take place to-morrow, the 24th. Tradition, no less
than the distinguished character of the festival, requires that they should do their utmost
in the gymnastic display. Two performances." Signed by Dioskourides, magistrate of Oxyrrhynchus.

Here is a report from a public physician to a magistrate: "To Claudianus, the mayor, from Dionysos,
public physician. I was to-day instructed by you, through Herakleides your assistant, to inspect
the body of a man who had been found hanged, named Hierax, and to report to you my opinion
of it. I therefore inspected the body in the presence of the aforesaid Herakleides at the house
of Epagathus in the Broadway ward, and found it hanged by a noose, which fact I accordingly
report." Dated in the twelfth year of Marcus Aurelius (A.D. 173).

The above translations are taken, slightly modified, from those in The Oxyrrhynchus Papyri,
vol. i. The next specimen, a quaint letter, is translated from the text in Mr. Grenfell's Greek
Papyri (Oxford, 1896), p. 69: "To Noumen, police captain and mayor, from Pokas son of Onôs,
unpaid policeman. I have been maltreated by Peadius the priest of the temple of Sebek in Crocodilopolis.
On the first epagomenal day of the eleventh year, after having abused me about... in the aforesaid
temple, the person complained against sprang upon me and in the presence of witnesses struck
me many blows with a stick which he had. And as part of my body was not covered, he tore my
shirt, and this fact I called upon the bystanders to bear witness to. Wherefore I request that
if it seems proper you will write to Klearchos the headman to send him to you, in order that,
if what I have written is true, I may obtain justice at your hands."

A will of Hadrian's reign, taken from the Oxyrrhynchus Papyri (i, p. 173), may also be of interest:
"This is the last will and testament, made in the street (i.e. at a street notary's stand),
of Pekysis, son of Hermes and Didyme, an inhabitant of Oxyrrhynchus, being sane and in his
right mind. So long as I live, I am to have powers over my property, to alter my will as I
please. But if I die with this will unchanged, I devise my daughter Ammonous whose mother is
Ptolema, if she survive me, but if not then her children, heir to my shares in the common house,
court, and rooms situate in the Cretan ward. All the furniture, movables, and household stock
and other property whatever that I shall leave, I bequeath to the mother of my children and
my wife Ptolema, the freedwoman of Demetrius, son of Hermippus, with the condition that she
shall have for her lifetime the right of using, dwelling in, and building in the said house,
court, and rooms. If Ammonous should die without children and intestate, the share of the fixtures
shall belong to her half-brother on the mother's side, Anatas, if he survive, but if not, to...
No one shall violate the terms of this my will under pain of paying to my daughter and heir
Ammonous a fine of 1,000 drachmae and to the treasury an equal sum." Here follow the signatures
of testator and witnesses, who are described, as in a passport, one of them as follows: "I,
Dionysios, son of Dionysios of the same city, witness the will of Pekysis. I am forty-six years
of age, have a curl over my right temple, and this is my seal of Dionysoplaton."

During the Roman period, which we have now reached in our survey, the temple building of the
Ptolemies was carried on with like energy. One of the best-known temples of the Roman period
is that at Philse, which is known as the "Kiosk," or "Pharaoh's Bed." Owing to the great picturesqueness
of its situation, this small temple, which was built in the reign of Trajan, has been a favourite
subject for the painters of the last fifty years, and next to the Pyramids, the Sphinx, and
Karnak, it is probably the most widely known of all Egyptian buildings. Recently it has come
very much to the front for an additional reason. Like all the other temples of Philse, it had
been archæologically surveyed and cleared by Col. H. Gr. Lyons and Dr. Borchardt, but further
work of a far-reaching character was rendered necessary by the building of the great Aswan
dam, below the island of Philse, one of the results of which has been the partial submergence
of the island and its temples, including the picturesque Kiosk. The following account, taken
from the new edition (1906) of Murray's Guide to Egypt and the Sudan, will suffice better than
any other description to explain what the dam is, how it has affected Philse, and what work
has been done to obviate the possibility of serious damage to the Kiosk and other buildings.

"In 1898 the Egyptian government signed a contract with Messrs. John Aird & Co. for the construction
of the great reservoir and dam at Shellâl, which serves for the storage of water at the time
of the flood Nile. The river is 'held up' here sixty-five feet above its old normal level.
A great masonry dyke, 150 feet high in places, has been carried across the Bab el-Kebir of
the First Cataract, and a canal and four locks, two hundred feet long and thirty feet wide,
allow for the passage of traffic up and down the river.

     Showing Water Rushing Through The Sluices

The dam is 2,185 yards long and over ninety feet thick at the base; in places it rises one
hundred feet above the bed of the river. It is built of the local red granite, and at each
end the granite dam is built into the granite hillside. Seven hundred and eight thousand cubic
yards of masonry were used. The sluices are 180 in number, and are arranged at four different
levels. The sight of the great volume of water pouring through them is a very fine one. The
Nile begins to rise in July, and at the end of November it is necessary to begin closing the
sluice-gates to hold up the water. By the end of February the reservoir is usually filled and
Philæ partially submerged, so that boats can sail in and out of the colonnades and Pharaoh's
Bed. By the beginning of July the water has been distributed, and it then falls to its normal
level.

"It is of course regrettable that the engineers were unable to find another site for the dam,
as it seemed inevitable that some damage would result to the temples of Philæ from their partial
submergence. Korosko was proposed as a site, but was rejected for cogent reasons, and apparently
Shellâl was the only possible place. Further, no serious person, who places the greatest good
of the greatest number above considerations of the picturesque and the 'interesting,' will
deny that if it is necessary to sacrifice Philæ to the good of the people of Egypt, Philæ must
go. 'Let the dead bury their dead.' The concern of the rulers of Egypt must be with the living
people of Egypt rather than with the dead bones of the past; and they would not be doing their
duty did they for a moment allow artistic and archaeological considerations to outweigh in
their minds the practical necessities of the country. This does not in the least imply that
they do not owe a lesser duty to the monuments of Egypt, which are among the most precious
relics of the past history of mankind. They do owe this lesser duty, and with regard to Philae
it has been conscientiously fulfilled. The whole temple, in order that its stability may be
preserved under the stress of submersion, has been braced up and underpinned, under the superintendence
of Mr. Ball, of the Survey Department, who has most efficiently carried out this important
work, at a cost of £22,000.

Steel girders have been fixed across the island from quay to quay, and these have been surrounded
by cement masonry, made water-tight by forcing in cement grout. Pharaoh's Bed and the colonnade
have been firmly underpinned in cement masonry, and there is little doubt that the actual stability
of Philae is now more certain than that of any other temple in Egypt. The only possible damage
that can accrue to it is the partial discolouration of the lower courses of the stonework of
Pharaoh's Bed, etc., which already bear a distinct high-water mark. Some surface disintegration
from the formation of salt crystals is perhaps inevitable here, but the effects of this can
always be neutralized by careful washing, which it should be an important charge of the Antiquities
Department to regularly carry out."

     This is entirely covered when the reservoir is full, and the
     palm-trees are farther submerged.

