This one statement of Mr. Gladstone at once refutes the claim that the Bible has elevated woman,
and confirms the idea of the president of the theological seminary. Add to these declarations
the true condition of women to-day, and the testimony that the Bible bears against itself,
and the falsity of the claim that it has elevated woman is at once established. If Mr. Gladstone
acknowledges the "gross, flagrant and shameful injustice" to woman sixty years ago in Christian
England, what can be said of woman's condition six hundred, or sixteen hundred years ago, when
the Bible held the greatest sway over the human mind and Christianity was at the zenith of
its power, when it was denied that woman has a soul, when she was bought and sold as the cattle
of the field, robbed of her name, her children, her property, and "elevated" (?) on the gibbet
of infamy, and on the high altar of lust by the decree of the Christian priesthood?

If it can be proven that during the last thousand years the Christian clergy, with the Bible
in their hands, have pointed out or attempted to remove one single cruelty or wrong which women
have suffered, now is the opportune time to furnish such proof. Now, to-day, when woman herself
is rising in her mental majesty, and when her wrongs are being righted, Christianity is dead
in the strongest brains and the most heroic hearts of Europe and of America; and now, when
the myth and the miracle of Bible teaching have lost their hold on the minds of people, this
is the very age when the position of woman is more exalted than it has ever been since Chrisianity
{sic} began.

If even the claim that the Bible has elevated woman to her present status were true, when the
light is turned on to the social, domestic and religious life of the Christian world, this
achievement reflects no credit on Bible teaching. After nineteen hundred years no woman's thought
has ever been incorporated into the ecclesiastical or civil code of any Christian land.

Monogamic marriage is the strongest institution of the Christian system; yet all the men of
the Old Testament were polygamists; and Christ and Paul, the central figures of the New Testament,
were celibates and condemned marriage by both precept and example. In Christian lands monogamy
is strictly demanded of women; but bigamy, trigamy, and polygamy are in reality practised by
men as one of the methods of elevating women, Largely, the majority of men have one legal wife;
but assisted by a small per cent. of youths and of bachelors, Christendom maintains an army
of several millions of courtesans. Thousands of wretched women are yearly driven to graves
in the potter's field, while manhood is degraded by deception, by drunkenness and by disease;
and the blood of the innocents cries out against a system which thus "elevates" woman.

The Bible says that "a tree is known by its fruit;" yet this tree is carefully pruned, watered,
and tended as the "Tree of life" whose fruit, in the words of Archdeacon Farrar, "alone elevates
woman, and shrouds as with a halo of sacred innocence the tender years of the child." The Bible
records that God created woman by a method different from that employed in bringing into life
any other creature, then cursed her for seeking knowledge; yet God declares in the Bible: "My
people are destroyed for lack of knowledge." "Because thou hast rejected knowledge I will reject
thee." "Add to your faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge," and knowledge is the savior of
the human race.

Ever since Eve was cursed for seeking knowledge, the priest with the Bible in his hands has
pronounced her the most unnatural, untrustworthy and dangerous creation of God. She has been
given away as a sheep at the marriage altar, classed with the ox and the ass, cursed in maternity,
required to receive purification at the hands of the priest for the crime of child-bearing,
her body enslaved, and robbed of her name and of her property.

The ownership of the wife established and perpetuated through Bible teaching is responsible
for the domestic pandemonium and the carnival of wife murder which reigns throughout Christendom.
In the United States alone, in the eighteen hundred and ninety-seventh year of the Christian
era, 3,482 wives, many with unborn children in their bodies, have been murdered in cold blood
by their husbands; yet the Christian clergy from their pulpits reprove women for not bearing
more children in the face of the fact that millions of the children who have been born by Christian
women are homeless tramps, degraded drunkards, victims of disease, inmates of insane asylums
or prisons, condemned to the scaffold, or bond slaves to priests or to plutocrats who revel
in wealth at the expense of women whom it is claimed that the Bible has "emancipated and elevated."

"Behold, I was shapen in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me." This declaration
of the Bible puts the brand of infamy upon every woman who ever bore a child; and this, it
is claimed, elevates the Mothers of the Race. The wife who places her destiny in the keeping
of the father of her children bestows upon him the wealth of her affection, who is to bear
the blood and the name of her husband to conquests yet undreamed of, and to generations yet
unborn, is by Divine decree made a fountain of iniquity. Would not men and women rather pluck
their tongues out by the roots than brand with infamy the mothers who went down into the valley
and the shadow of death to give birth to them?

Place the Bible Trinity of "Father, Son and Holy Ghost" beside the Homeric trinity, "Father,
Mother and Child," and prove that the Bible has elevated woman. The Homeric conception of woman
towers like the Norway pine above the noxious growth of the Mosaic ideal. Compare the men and
the women of the Bible with the stately figures culled from the temple of Pagan antiquity.
Zipporah denouncing Moses as a "bloody husband," Abraham sending Hagar and his child into the
desert and pocketing twice over the gains from his wife's prostitution; Lot and his daughters;
Judah and his daughter-in-law, Onan; Yamar, the Levite, and his concubine; David and Bath-sheba;
Solomon in the sewer of sensualism; Rahab, Aholibah, Mary of Bethlehem, and Mary Magdala.

Place these by the side of the man and the woman, Hector and Andromache, of the "Iliad," who
called upon the immortal gods to bless their child of love; the virgin Isis with her son Horus;
the Vedic virgin Indrance, the mother of the savior-god, Indra; Devaki and her Divine child,
Chrishna; Hipparchia, Pandora, Protogenia, Cornelia, Plotina, and a host of the noble and virtuous
of Pagan history. Prove by comparing these with the position of woman in Christendom that woman
owes all that she is to the Bible.

Compare Ruth of the Bible with the magnificent Pagan, Penelope, who refused the hands of kings,
was as true to her love as the star is to the pole, who, after years of waiting, clasped the
old wanderer in rags to her heart, her husband, her long-lost Ulysses; yet this Pagan woman
lived ten centuries before the laws of Moses and of Christ were promulgated. While there are
millions of Penelopes in Christendom, there are other millions of women, after centuries of
Bible teaching, who lie outside the pale of motherhood, and even outside of the pale of swine-hood.
Under Bible teaching the scarlet woman is "anathema, marantha," while the scarlet man holds
high place in the Sanctuary and the State.

The by-paths of ecclesiastical history are fetid with the records of crimes against women;
and "the half has never been told." And what of the history which Christianity is making to-day?
Answer, ye victims of domestic warfare who crowd the divorce courts of Bible lands. Answer,
ye wretched offspring of involuntary motherhood. Answer, ye five hundred thousand outcast women
of Christian America, who should have been five hundred thousand blessings, bearing humanity
in your unvitiated blood down the streams of time. Answer, ye mental dwarfs and moral monstrosities,
and tell what the Holy Bible has done for you.

While these answers echo through the stately cathedrals of Bible lands, if the priest, with
the Holy Bible in his hands, can show just cause why woman should not look to reason and to
science rather than to Scripture for deliverance, "let him speak now, or forever after hold
his peace."

When Reason reigns and Science lights the way, a countless host of women will move in majesty
down the coming centuries.

Josephine K. Henry.

My Dear Mrs. Stanton:--To say that "the Bible for two thousand years has been the greatest
block in the way of civilization" is, misleading. Until the Protestant reformation, the Bible
was hidden from the common people by the hierarchs of the Roman Catholic Church; and it is
only about three centuries that it has been read in the vernacular.

I cannot agree with you that "the Bible degrades women from Genesis to Revelation." The Bible,
which is a collection of ancient literature, historic, prophetic, poetic and epistolary, is
valuable as showing the status of woman at the time when the books were written. And the advice,
or the commands, to women given by Paul in the Epistles, against which there has been so much
railing, when studied in the light of the higher criticism, with the aid of cotemporary {sic}
history and Greek scholarship, show Paul to have been in advance of the religious teachers
of his time.

All these commands that have offended us in the past appear in his Epistles to the churches
in cities of Greece, where marriage was bitter slavery to women. Christianity is simply the
universal fatherhood of God, and the universal brotherhood of man. And Paul was declaring this
in the utterance which I have quoted. All the unjust distinctions of race and of caste, all
the oppressions of slavery and the degradations of woman were effaced by the two cardinal doctrines
of pristine Christianity; and Paul seems to have lived up to his teaching.

I cannot say that "Christianity has been the foe of woman." The study of the evolution of woman
does not show this. My later studies have changed many of my earlier crude notions concerning
the development of woman. She has developed slowly, and so has man; and the history of the
past shows that every activity of man which has advanced him has been shared by her.

There is so wide a belief among orthodox people, nowadays, in what Professor Briggs calls "the
errancy of the Bible," that I doubt if you will be attacked, no matter how startling may be
your heresies in Part II. Nobody cares much about heresy in these days; and my desire to withhold
my name from your work, as an endorser, comes from my utter ignorance of it, and from my belief
that I should disagree with you, judging from your letter before me.

Yours very truly,

M. A. Livermore.

My Dear Mrs. Stanton:--You have sent to me the following questions: "Have the teachings of
the Bible advanced or retarded the emancipation of women? Have they dignified or degraded the
Mothers of the Race?"

In reply I would say, that as a matter of fact, the nations which treat women with the most
consideration are all Christian nations; the countries in which women have open to them all
the opportunities for education which men possess are Christian countries; coeducation originated
in Christian colleges; the professions and the trades are closed to us in all except Christian
lands; and woman's ballot is unknown except where the Gospel of Christ has mellowed the hearts
of men until they became willing to do women justice. Wherever we find an institution for the
care and the comfort of the defective or the dependent classes, that institution was founded
by men and women who were Christians by heredity and by training.

No such woman as Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, with her heart aflame against all forms of injustice
and of cruelty, with her intellect illumed and her tongue quickened into eloquence, has ever
been produced in a country where the Bible was not incorporated into the thoughts and the affections
of the people and had not been so during many generations.

I think that men have read their own selfish theories into the Book, that theologians have
not in the past sufficiently recognized the progressive quality of its revelation, nor adequately
discriminated between its records as history and its principles of ethics and of religion,
nor have they until recently perceived that it is not in any sense a scientific treatise; but
I believe that the Bible comes to us from God, and that it is a sufficient rule of faith and
of practice. I believe that it is no accident which has placed this Book at the parting of
the ways between a good life and a bad one, and enshrined it at the centre of the holiest scenes
which the heart can know, placing it in the pastor's hand at the wedding and at the grave,
on the father's knee at family prayer, in the trembling fingers of the sick, and at the pillow
of the dying, making it the hope of the penitent and the power of God unto salvation of those
who sin.

To me the Bible is the dear and sacred home book which makes a hallowed motherhood possible
because it raises woman up, and with her lifts toward heaven the world. This is the faith taught
to me by those whom I have most revered and cherished; it has produced the finest characters
which I have ever known; by it I propose to live; and holding to the truth which it brings
to us, I expect to pass from this world to one even more full of beauty and of hope.

Believe me, honored co-worker for the enfranchisement of women,

Yours with sisterly regard,

Frances E. Willard.

Among the letters in reply to the interrogatories propounded are two, noticeable because they
are in such a striking contrast to that of Mrs. Josephine K. Henry, which immediately precedes
them. Their first marked characteristic is their total lack of facts which are sufficient to
sustain the conclusions therein stated. Conceding for the purpose of this discussion the truth
of Mrs. Livermore's assertions contained in the first paragraph of her letter, she fails absolutely
to show that the Holy Scriptures have been of any benefit, or have rendered any aid, to woman
in her efforts to obtain her rights in either the social, the business, or the political world;
and unless she is able to present stronger or more cogent reasons to justify that conclusion
than any which are therein specified, I shall be compelled to adhere to my present conviction,
which is, that this book always has been, and is at present, one of the greatest obstacles
in the way of the emancipation and the advancement of the sex.

In regard to the letter of the distinguished President of the Woman's Christian Temperance
Union, her position is entirely indefensible and completely lacking in logical conclusions.
Her leading proposition is in substance that to the extent that the Christian religion has
prevailed there has been a corresponding improvement in the condition of women; and the conclusion
which she draws from that premise is that this religion has been the cause of this advancement.
Before I admit the truth of this conclusion I must first inquire whether or not the premise
upon which it is based is true; and judging from the fact that the condition of women is most
degraded in those countries where Church and State are in closest affiliation, as in Spain,
in Italy, in Russia and in Ireland, and most advanced in nations where the power of ecclesiasticism
is markedly on the wane, the inference is obvious that the Bible and the religion based upon
it have retarded rather than promoted the progress of woman.

But, granting that her premise is true, her conclusion by no means follows from it. She desires
her reader to infer that the existence of Christianity in certain countries is responsible
for the high degree of civilization which there obtains, and that the improved condition of
women in those countries is owing entirely to the influence of that religion therein. This
is what the logicians would call a non sequitur, which means a conclusion which does not follow
from the premises stated.

It is now a well-settled principle recognized by all writers upon the science of logic, that
the co-existence of two facts does not necessarily imply that one is the cause of the other;
and, as is often the case, they may have no relation to each other, and each may exist independently
of the other. Many illustrations of this fallacy might be presented were it necessary to do
so; but I will refer to only one of them. I have heard it asserted that more murders and other
crimes are committed in Christian countries than in any others. Whether this be true or false,
I am not prepared to state; but if it were proven to be a fact, could one justly contend that
the influence of the Bible is in favor of the commission of crime? Indeed, there would be more
reason for so thinking than there is for the opinion which she holds, as numerous passages
may be found in that volume which clearly justify both crime and vice.

The truth of the matter is, as Mrs. Stanton, Mrs. Henry, and other contributors to "The Woman's
Bible" have clearly proven, that whatever progress woman has made in any department of effort
she has accomplished independently of, and in opposition to, the so-called inspired and infallible
"Word of God," and that this book has been of more injury to her than has any other which has
ever been written in the history of the world.

There are always two sides to every question. It sometimes happens that the Christian, the
historian, the clergyman, and the devotee, in their enthusiasm, are long on assertion and short
on proof. Turning the light on the past and present, the writer of this comment asserts "as
a matter of fact that the nations which treat women with the most consideration are all" civilized
nations. If the condition of woman is highest in Christian civilization, the question arises,
Is it Christianity or civilization which has accorded to women the "most consideration"? Christianity
means belief in the tenets laid down in a book called the Bible, claimed to be the Word of
God. Civilization means the state of being refined in manners from the grossness of savage
life, and improved in arts and in learning. If civilization is due entirely to the teachings
of the Bible, then, as claimed, woman owes to Christianity all the "consideration" which she
receives.

We claim that woman's advancement is due to civilization, and that the Bible has been a bar
to her progress. It is true that "woman receives most consideration in Christian nations;"
but this is due to the mental evolution of humanity, stimulated by climate and by soil, and
the intercommunication of ideas through modern invention. All the Christian nations are in
the north temperate zone, whose climate, and soil are better adapted to the development of
the race than any other portions of the earth. Christianity took its rise in thirty degrees
north latitude. Mohammedanism took its rise in the torrid zone; and as it made its way north
it advanced in education, in art, in science, and in invention, until the civilization of Moslem
Spain far surpassed that of Christian Europe, and as it retreated before the Christian sword
from the fertile valleys of Spain into the and plains of Arabia it retrograded, after giving
to the world some of the greatest scientific truths and inventions.

The women of the United States receive "more consideration" and are being emancipated more
rapidly than are the women of Europe; yet, in Europe, Christianity holds iron sway, while in
America the people are free to accept or to reject its teachings; and in the United States,
out of a population of seventy millions, but twenty-two millions have accepted it; and a large
percentage of these are children, who have not arrived at the years of discretion, and foreigners
from Christian Europe. The consideration extended to woman does not depend upon the teachings
of the Bible, but upon the mental and material advancement of the men of a nation. Now if it
can be proven that Bible teaching has inspired men to explore and to subdue new lands, to give
to the world inventions, to build ships, railroads and telegraphs, to open mines, to construct
foundries and factories, and to amass knowledge and wealth, then the Bible has been woman's
best friend; for she receives most consideration where men have liberty of thought and of action,
have prospered materially, builded homes, and have bank accounts.

The women in the slums of Christian London and New York receive no more consideration than
the women in the slums of Hong Kong or Bombay. If the nations which give the most consideration
to women do so because of their Christianity, then it logically follows that the more intensely
Christian a class or an individual may be, the greater consideration will be shown to their
women. The most intensely Christian people in Christendom are negroes; yet it is an incontrovertible
fact that negro women receive less consideration, and are more wronged and abused, than any
class on the earth. The women of the middle and upper classes in Bible lands receive consideration
just in proportion to the amount of intelligence and worldly goods possessed by their male
relatives, while the pauper classes are abused, subjected, and degraded in proportion to the
ignorance and the poverty of the men of their class.

The Church is the channel through which Bible influence flows. Has the Church ever issued an
edict that woman must be equal with man before the canon or the civil law, that her thoughts
should be incorporated in creed or code, that she should own her own body and property in marriage,
or have a legal claim to her children born in wedlock, which Christianity claims is a "sacrament"
and one of the "holy mysteries"? Has the Church ever demanded that woman be educated beyond
the Bible (and that interpreted for her) and the cook book, or given a chance in all the callings
of life to earn an honest living? Is not the Church to-day a masculine hierarchy, with a female
constituency, which holds woman in Bible lands in silence and in subjection?

No institution in modern civilization is so tyrannical and so unjust to woman as is the Christian
Church. It demands everything from her and gives her nothing in return. The history of the
Church does not contain a single suggestion for the equality of woman with man. Yet it is claimed
that women owe their advancement to the Bible. It would be quite as true to say that they owe
their improved condition to the almanac or to the vernal equinox. Under Bible influence woman
has been burned as a witch, sold in the shambles, reduced to a drudge and a pauper, and silenced
and subjected before her ecclesiastical and marital law-givers. "She was first in the transgression,
therefore keep her in subjection." These words of Paul have filled our whole civilization with
a deadly virus, yet how strange is it that the average Christian woman holds the name of Paul
above all others, and is oblivious to the fact that he has brought deeper shame, subjection,
servitude and sorrow to woman than has any other human being in history.

The nations under Bible influence are the only drunken nations on the earth. The W. C. T. U.
will certainly not claim that drunkenness elevates woman; indeed, its great work for our sex
is a splendid protest against this idea. Throughout Christendom millions of wretched women
wait in suspense and in terror for the return of drunken husbands, while in heathendom a drunkard's
wife cannot be found unless a heathen husband is being Christianized by Christian whiskey.
The Chinese women have their feet compressed, but, unlike Christian women, they do not need
their feet to give broom drills or skirt dances for the "benefit of their church." The child-wives
of India need to be rescued and protected, but no more than many adult wives in Bible lands
need protection from drunken and brutal husbands. The heathen wife seeks death on her husband's
funeral pyre, but the Christian wife is often sent to death by a bullet in her brain, or a
knife in her heart. In these States the people are honest, industrious and law-abiding; but
the "influence of the Gospel of Christ," according to religious statistics, is so small it
would take a search-warrant to find it, while Utah is full of Mormons and New Zealand is a
convict dumping ground for Christian nations. Is this the extent of justice to women after
the "influence of the Gospel of Christ has mellowed the hearts of men" for nineteen hundred years?

The fact is that woman has been elevated in spite of Bible influence. Every effort that woman
has made to secure education has been challenged by popes, bishops, priests, moderators, conferences
and college presidents, yet against all these protests she has battered down the doors of Christian
colleges and is now studying the Bible of Science in conjunction with the Bible of the Christian
religion. With increasing knowledge woman is founding her faith on reason and demonstrated
truth, instead of taking it second-hand from priest, parson or presbyter.

Remove from Bible lands the busy brains and hands which have guided the plow and the locomotive,
driven the machinery of the mine, the foundry, the factory, the home, the mental and the physical
labor which have brought material prosperity, broadened the mind, subdued the brutal instincts,
and humanized the race--remove all these and leave but the Bible and its influence, and where,
let me, ask, would woman be to-day? Where, indeed, would man be? A crouching and cowering slave
to the Bible doctrine of the Divine right of kings, living as the brutes of the field, as he
did when Bible Christianity was at the zenith of its power. Wherever in Christian lands man
has been a slave, woman has been the slave of a slave.

Imagine the condition of woman if to-day should be removed from Christian civilization the
school, the steam engine, the smokestack and the printing press, and leave but the Scriptures,
the steeple and the parson. Would Elizabeth Cady Stantons, Mary A. Livermores and Frances E.
Willards be the products of this strictly Christian civilization?

Christianity has instilled into woman the canting falsehood that the women of all other religions
are degraded and immoral. Through tyranny and falsehood alone is Christianity able to hold
woman in subjection. To tell her the truth would rend the temple of faith in twain and strike
terror to the heart of the priest at the altar. Nothing but the truth will set woman free.
She should know that Christian England captures the Hindoo girl to act as a harlot to the British
soldier, and that a Christian chaplain is commanded to see that she performs her duty. She
should know that in Christian Austria the maiden must partake of the Holy Eucharist before
she will be granted a license as a prostitute. She should know that Christian Europe and America
trade upon the bodies, the hearts and the hopes of millions of wretched women, victims of ignorance
and of poverty, and that the centres, of Christian civilization are seething cauldrons of immorality,
dissipation and disease, which spread ruin and despair in the shadow of the loftiest cathedrals
and palatial Christian temples.

These things are too shocking for pure Christian women to know, so they expend their prayers
and pelf on the "poor heathen" who have never heard that Adam ate an apple, or that the whale
swallowed Jonah. Christianity feeds and fattens on the sentiment and the credulity of women.
It slanders the women of India, of China and of Japan that it may rob the woman of Europe and
of America. Dr. Simmons, of the National Hospital at Yokohama, who has lived in the Orient
for thirty- five years, says:

"The family in Japan is the cornerstone of the nation. The father and the mother are regarded
with reverence. Politeness and self-restraint are instilled into children, and an uncivil word
is rarely heard. The Japanese are truthful and honest. The wife has equal influence with the
husband; while divorce is rarely heard of in Oriental lands; and laws are more stringent protecting
the chastity of women."

O that women could learn the truth! The laws of the Orient are against trafficking in young
girls, but Christian England, which has an iron hand on the throat of India and a sword thrust
into her heart, carries on a lively trade in native and foreign women, to be the prey of the
Christian soldier, who makes way for the Christian missionary. Here, in Christian America,
marriageable young women are trotted off to church, the theatre or the ball, and practically
set up for sale in the market of holy matrimony; and the Christian minister, for a consideration,
seals the "Divine mystery." The Church would indignantly deny that it is a marriage mart, but
denial does not throttle the truth.

Truth makes her way slowly but surely, because the eternities are hers. Mrs. Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, the greatest liberator of our time, has, with magnificent courage, pressed into humanity's
Thermopylae, and turned the light on the superstitions which have visited cruelties and wrongs
on woman, and this, too, under a system which claims to extend "great consideration" to the
Mothers of the Race. O women of Christendom! will ye not seek the truth? Leave the priestly
mendicants who demand your devotion and your dollars, leave to their religion the heathen women
on the banks of the Yangtse-Kiang and the Ganges, and turn your eyes to millions of your enslaved,
toiling, struggling sisters in Christendom whom it is claimed the Bible has elevated; and remember
that these are the victims upon whom the "glad feet" of the Gospel have been trampling for
two thousand years.

Versailles, Ky.

Josephine K. Henry.

The Christian theory of the sacredness of the Bible has been at the cost of the world's civilization.
Whether we regard the work as custodian of the profoundest secrets of the "ancient mysteries,"
a spiritual book trebly veiled, or as the physical and religious history of the world in its
most material forms, its interpretation by the Church, by the State, and by society has ever
been prejudicial to the best interests of humanity. Science, art, inventions, reforms of existing
wrongs, all, all have been opposed upon its authority. That even the most enlightened nations
are not yet out of barbarism is due to the teachings of the Bible.

From "Thou shalt not make any graven image, or any likeness of anything in heaven above, the
earth beneath, or the waters under the earth," down to "A woman shall not speak in church,
but shall ask her husband at home," the tendency of the Bible has been to crush out aspiration,
to deaden human faculties, and to humiliate mankind. From Adam's plaint, "The woman gave me
and I did eat," down to Christ's "Woman, what have I to do with thee?" the tendency of the
Bible has been degradation of the divinest half of humanity--woman. Even the Christian Church
itself is not based upon Christ as a savior, but upon its own teachings that woman brought
sin into the world, a theory in direct contradiction, not alone to the mysteries, but to spiritual
truth. But our present quest is not what the mystic or the spiritual character of the Bible
may be; we are investigating its influence upon woman under Judaism and Christianity, and pronounce
it evil.

Matilda Joslyn Gage.

There is nothing tending to show that the women spoken of in the Bible were superior to the
ones we know. There are to-day millions of women making coats for their sons; hundreds of thousands
of women, true, not simply to innocent people falsely accused, but to criminals. Many a loving
heart is as true to the gallows as Mary was to the cross. There are hundreds of thousands of
women accepting poverty and want and dishonor for the love they bear unworthy men; hundreds
and thousands-- hundreds and thousands--working day and night, with strained eyes and tired
hands, for husbands and children--clothed in rags, housed in huts and hovels, hoping day after
day for the Angel of Death. There are thousands of women in Christian England working in iron,
laboring in the fields and toiling in the mines. There are hundreds and thousands in Europe,
everywhere, doing the work of men--deformed by toil, and who would become simply wild and ferocious
beasts, except for the love they bear for home and child.

We need not go back four thousand years for heroines. The world is filled with them to-day.
They do not belong to any nation, nor any religion, nor exclusively to any race. Wherever woman
is found, they are found. There are no women portrayed in the Bible who equal thousands and
thousands of known to-day. The women of the Bible fall almost infinitely below, not simply
those in real life, but the creations of the imagination found in the world of fiction. They
will not compare with the women born of Shakespeare's brain. You will find none like Isabella,
in whose spotless life, love and reason blended into perfect truth; nor Juliet, within whose
heart, passion and purity met like white and red within the bosom of a rose; nor Cordelia,
who chose to suffer loss rather than show her wealth of love with those who gilded dross with
golden words in hope of gain; nor Miranda, who told her love as freely as a flower gives its
blossom to the kisses of the sun; nor Imogene, who asked, "What is it to be false?" nor Hermione,
who bore with perfect faith and hope the cross of shame, and who at last forgave with all her
heart; nor Desdemona, her innocence so perfect and her love so pure that she was incapable
of suspecting that another could suspect, and sought with dying words to hide her lover's crime.

If we wish to find what the Bible thinks of woman, all that is necessary to do is to read it.
We shall find that everywhere she is spoken of simply as property--as belonging absolutely
to the man. We shall find that, whenever a man got tired of his wife, all he had to do was
to give her a writing of divorcement, and that then the mother of his children became a houseless
and homeless wanderer. We shall find that men were allowed to have as many wives as they could
get, either by courtship, purchase, or conquest. The Jewish people in the olden time were,
in many respects, like their barbarian neighbors.

Anon.

The Bible, viewed by men as the infallible "Word of God," and translated and explained for
ages by men only, tends to the subjection and degradation of woman. Historical facts to prove
this are abundant. In the dark days of "witchcraft"--through centuries--alleged witches were
arrested, tried in ecclesiastical courts, tortured and hung or burned at the stake by men under
priestly direction, and the great majority of the victims were women. Eve's alleged transgression,
and the Bible edict in the days of the reputed Witch of Endor, "Thou shalt not suffer a witch
to live," being the warrant and Divine authority for this awful slaughter of women.

In the days of chattel-slavery in our country, the slave-laws, framed by men only, degraded
woman by making her the defenseless victim of her slave-master's passions, and then inflicting
a cruel stab, reaching the heart of motherhood, by laws which made her children follow the
condition of the mother, as slaves; never that of the father, as free women or men. The clergy
became slaveholders and defenders of slavery without loss of priestly position or influence,
and quoted "Cursed be Canaan" as their justification.

The Lord gave the Word, great was the company of those that published it.--Old version of the
Bible, 68th Psalm.

The Lord giveth the Word, and great is the multitude of women who publish it.--Revised version
of the Bible, 68th Psalm.

Here is "a reform" not "against Nature," nor the facts of history, but is true to the Mother
of the Race, to her knowledge of "the Word," to her desire to promulgate it, to her actual
participation in declaring and proclaiming it. And true to a present and continuous inspiration
and influx of the Spirit, it is giveth, and not "gave," in the past. And this one recognition
of woman as preacher and Apostle forbids the assertion that woman is degraded from Genesis
to Revelation.

The light of a more generous religious thought, a growth out of the old beliefs, impelled the
learned "Committee on Revision" to speak the truth in regard to the religious character and
work of women, and they have exalted her where before she was "degraded."

This revision is also prophetic of this era, for never were women doing so excellently the
world's work, or, like Tryphena and Tryphosa, prophesying the light still to come.

Catharine A. F. Stebbins.

The general principles of righteousness and justice laid down in the Bible have elevated the
race in general, the mothers included, and have aided in securing reforms for women, as well
as for other classes. But the specific texts of Saint Paul enjoining subjection upon women
have undoubtedly been a hindrance.

Alice Stone Blackwell.

1. In my opinion the teachings of the Bible have advanced woman's emancipation.

Look at the freedom of the Jewish women of the Old Testament--of Miriam, Deborah, Abigail,
Ruth and Esther. In comparison, where were the Gentile women who knew not God?

2. The teachings of the Bible, particularly the New Testament, have dignified the Mothers of
the Race. Christ was very severe to the men who were sinners, he called them Scribes and Pharisees
and hypocrites, and pronounced, "Woe be unto you." He even whipped the money changers out of
the temple. But no rebuke to woman ever fell from his lips save the gentle one to Martha, that
she cared too much for her home and her nice housekeeping. Christ's mission meant the elevation
of womanhood. Compare Christian countries with the heathen countries, and see how Christianity
elevates and heathenism degrades womanhood.

I have studied the questions in the Indian Territory in our own United States. Under the influence
of the Christian missionaries the Indian woman is an important factor in Church and State.
Where the Gospel of Christ is not preached the women are slaves to the men. In their long tramps
they do not even walk beside their husbands, but follow behind like dogs. I am aware that small
ministers still preach foolishness, defining "woman's sphere," but the real Biblical Christianity
elevates womanhood.

Sarah M. Perkins.

