That this work, as an elementary treatise on civil government, is not susceptible of improvement,
is not pretended. Such as it is, it is submitted to the judgment of a candid public. If it
shall prove in any considerable degree useful, the author's highest expectations will have
been realized.

To Teachers.

To the meritorious, though often undervalued labors of the instructors of American youth, is
our country greatly indebted for the successful working of its system of free government; and
upon the labors of their successors rest, in an equal degree, all well-founded hopes of its
future political prosperity.

The general introduction and profitable study of this work, depend much upon a hearty and active
coöperation of teachers in the enterprise which it is intended to promote. From all who desire
to make themselves in the highest degree useful in their profession, such coöperation is confidently
anticipated.

The advantage of instructing a class in civil government, is not confined to the pupils. The
teacher will find the exercise both interesting and profitable to himself. Although pains have
been taken to adapt the work to the capacities of youth, the definition of many terms and phrases,
and the further explanation of many subjects, have necessarily been left to be supplied by
teachers. The study and investigation which may in some cases be required to qualify them for
the task, will be amply rewarded by their own advancement in political knowledge.

No intelligent teacher, it is presumed, will object to the introduction of this study, on the
ground that there is not sufficient time or room for an additional exercise. Useful as all
the branches now taught may be justly deemed, all of them are not, as is a knowledge of government,
indispensable to the security of our liberties. The latter is of far greater importance to
an American citizen, than a knowledge of some portions of arithmetic and the higher mathematics;
and in the opinion of some distinguished educators the time now devoted to these, in many schools,
is sufficient to acquire a tolerable political education. It is believed, however, that this
study need not exclude, or essentially interfere with, any of the studies pursued in the schools
generally. By the more advanced scholars in the common schools, the work may be used as a reading
book, and thus a two-fold advantage be gained from its use.

To assist the more inexperienced teachers in conducting the exercise, a few questions have
been appended to the chapters. Questions may be added by the teachers at pleasure, or to such
extent as may be thought necessary. And it is believed the recitations may be made more profitable
to pupils, by requiring them, so far as may be, to give answers in their own words. To some
of the printed questions, no answers are furnished by the chapters and sections referred to,
but may be found in the Synopsis of the State Constitutions, or other parts of the work. Occasionally
questions have been inserted to which no part of the work furnishes the answers.

Contents

Principles of Government.

Chapter I.

     Mankind fitted for Society, and for Civil Government and Laws

Chapter II.

     Rights and Liberty, defined

Chapter III.

     Laws defined

Chapter IV.

     Different Forms of Government. Monarchy; Aristocracy; Democracy;
     Republic

State Governments.

Chapter V.

     The Nature and Objects of a Constitution, and the manner in which
     it is made

Chapter VI.

     Qualifications of Electors; or, by whom Political Power is
     exercised in the States of this Union

Chapter VII.

     Elections

Chapter VIII.

     Division of the Powers of Government

Chapter IX.

     States Legislatures--how constituted

Chapter X.

     Meetings and Organization of the Legislature

Chapter XI.

     Manner of Enacting Laws

Chapter XII.

     Executive Department. Governor and Lieutenant Governor

Chapter XIII.

     Assistant Executive State Officers

Chapter XIV.

     Counties and County Officers. Powers and Duties of County Officers

Chapter XV.

     Towns and Town Officers. Powers and Duties of Town Officers

Chapter XVI.

     Incorporation and Government of Cities, Villages, &c.

Chapter XVII.

     Judicial Department. Justices' Courts

Chapter XVIII.

     Trial by Jury; Execution; Attachment; Appeals; Arrest of Offenders

Chapter XIX.

     Courts other than Justices' Courts; Grand and Petit Juries, &c.

Chapter XX.

     Chancery or Equity Courts; Probate Courts; Court of Impeachment

Chapter XXI.

     Assessment and Collection of Taxes

Chapter XXII.

     Education. School Funds; Schools, &c.

Chapter XXIII.

     Canals and Railroads

Chapter XXIV.

     Banks and Insurance Companies

Chapter XXV.

     The Militia

Government of the United States.

Chapter XXVI.

     Causes of the Revolution

Chapter XXVII.

     Nature of the Union under the Confederation

Chapter XXVIII.

     Nature of the Union under the Constitution

Chapter XXIX.

     Legislative Department. House of Representatives

Chapter XXX.

     The Senate

Chapter XXXI.

     Power of Congress to lay Taxes, Duties, &c.; Power to Borrow Money

Chapter XXXII.

     Power to Regulate Commerce. Commerce with Foreign Nations

Chapter XXXIII.

     Power to Regulate Commerce, continued. Navigation; Commerce among
     the States, and with the Indian Tribes

Chapter XXXIV.

     Powers of Congress in Relation to Naturalization; Bankruptcy;
     Coining Money; Weights and Measures; Punishment of Counterfeiting

Chapter XXXV.

     Powers of Congress in Relation to Post-Offices; Copy-Rights and
     Patents; Inferior Courts

Chapter XXXVI.

     Powers of Congress in Relation to Piracy and Offenses against the
     Law of Nations; War; Marque and Reprisal; Public Defense; District
     of Columbia; Implied Powers

Chapter XXXVII.

     Prohibitions on Congress

Chapter XXXVIII.

     Prohibition on the States

Chapter XXXIX.

     Executive Department. President and Vice-President; their Election,
     Qualifications, &c.

Chapter XL.

     Powers and Duties of the President; Treaties; Public Ministers;
     Appointments and Removals

Chapter XLI.

     Auxiliary Executive Departments. Departments of State, of the
     Treasury, of the Interior, of War, of the Navy, of the Post-Office;
     Attorney General

Chapter XLII.

     Judicial Department. District Courts; Circuit Courts; Supreme Court

Chapter XLIII.

     Treason Defined, its Punishment

Chapter XLIV.

     State Records; Privileges of Citizens; Fugitives; Admission of New
     States; Power over Territory; Guaranty of Republican Government

Chapter XLV.

     Provision for Amendments; Assumptions of Public Debt; Supremacy of
     the Constitution, &c.; Oaths and Tests; Ratification of the
     Constitution

Chapter XLVI.

     Amendments to the Constitution

Common and Statutory Law.

Chapter XLVII.

     Rights of Persons. Personal Security; Personal Liberty; Religious
     Liberty; Liberty of Speech, and of the Press; Right of Property

Chapter XLVIII.

     Domestic Relations. Husband and Wife

Chapter XLIX.

     Domestic Relations, continued. Parent and Child; Guardian and Ward;
     Minors; Masters, Apprentices, and Servants

Chapter L.

     Rights of Property. How Title to Property is acquired; Wills and
     Testaments; Title to Property by Descent

Chapter LI.

     Deeds and Mortgages

Chapter LII.

     Incorporeal Hereditaments, Right of Way; Aquatic Rights, &c.

Chapter LIII.

     Leases. Estates for Life; Estates for Years; Estates at Will;
     Estates by Sufferance; Rent, &c.

Chapter LIV.

     Contracts in General

Chapter LV.

     Contracts of Sale

Chapter LVI.

     Fraudulent Sales; Assignments; Gifts, &c.

Chapter LVII.

     Bailment

Chapter LVIII.

     Principal and Agent, or Factor; Broker; Lien, &c.

Chapter LIX.

     Partnership

Chapter LX.

     Promissory Notes

Chapter LXI.

     Bills of Exchange; Interest; Usury

Chapter LXII.

     Crimes and Misdemeanors

Law of Nations.

Chapter LXIII.

     Origin and Progress of the Law of Nations; the Natural, Customary,
     and Conventional Laws of Nations

Chapter LXIV.

     The Jurisdiction of Nations; their mutual Rights and Obligations;
     the Rights of Embassadors, Ministers, &c.

Chapter LXV.

     Offensive and Defensive War; just Causes of War; Reprisals;
     Alliances in War

Chapter LXVI.

     Declaration of War; its Effect upon the Person and Property of the
     Enemy's Subjects; Stratagems in War; Privateering

Chapter LXVII.

     Rights and Duties of Neutral Nations; Contraband Goods; Blockade;
     Right of Search; Safe Conducts and Passports; Truces; Treaties of
     Peace

Synopsis of the State Constitutions.

§1. Mankind are social beings. They are by nature fitted for society. By this we mean that
they are naturally disposed to associate with each other. Indeed, such is their nature, that
they could not be happy without such association. Hence we conclude that the Creator has designed
men for society. It can not, therefore, be true, as some say, that the savage state is the
natural state of man.

§2. Man is so formed that he is dependent upon his fellow men. He has not the natural strength
of other animals. He needs the assistance of creatures like himself to protect and preserve
his own being. We can hardly imagine how a person could procure the necessaries of life without
such assistance. But men have the gifts of reason and speech. By conversation they are enabled
to improve their reason and increase their knowledge, and to find methods of supplying their
wants, and of improving their social condition.

§3. But, although men need the assistance of each other, they are so formed that each must
have the care of himself. If every man were fed and clothed from a common store, provided by
the labor of all, many, depending upon the labor of others, would be less industrious than
they now are. By the present arrangement in society, which obliges every man to provide for
his own wants, more is earned, a greater number are cared for, and the general welfare is better
promoted than would be done if each labored for the benefit of all.

§4. From this arrangement comes the right of property. If each man's earnings should go into
a common stock for the use of all, there would be nothing that any one could call his own.
But if each is to provide for himself, he must have a right to use and enjoy the fruits of
his own labor.

§5. But all men in society have the same rights. Therefore, in laboring to supply our wants,
and to gratify our desires, we can not rightfully do so any further than is consistent with
the rights of others. Hence we see the necessity of some established rules for securing to
every member of society the free enjoyment of what justly belongs to him, and for regulating
his conduct toward his fellow-members.

§6. These rules for regulating the social actions of men, are called laws. Law, in a general
sense, is a rule of action, and is applied to all kinds of action. But in its limited and proper
sense, it denotes the rules of human action prescribing what men are to do, and forbidding
what they are not to do.

