The reader will learn with regret that Virgil's tomb, consecrated as it ought to be to genius
and meditation, is sometimes converted into the retreat of assassins, or the lurking place
of Sbirri. Such at least it was the last time we visited it, when wandering that way about
sun-set we found it filled with armed men. We were surprised on both sides, and on ours not
very agreeably at the unexpected rencounter; so lonely the place and so threatening the aspects
of these strangers. Their manners however were courteous; and on inquiry we were informed that
they were Sbirri, and then lying in wait for a murderer, who was supposed to make that spot
his nightly asylum. It would be unjust to accuse the Neapolitans of culpable indifference towards
this or any other monument of antiquity; but it is incumbent on the proprietor or the public,
to secure them against such profanation. On the whole, few places are in themselves more picturesque,
and from the recollection inseparably interwoven with it, no spot is more interesting than
the tomb of Virgil.

       *       *       *       *       *

LAST CHRISTMAS DAY.

(For the Mirror.)

  "Say, if such blandishments did ever greet
  Thy charmed soul; hast thou not crav'd to die?
  Hast not thine immaterial seem'd but air
  Verging to sigh itself from thee, and share
  Beatitude? hast thou not watch'd thy breath
  In meek, faint hope, that soon 'twould sink in death?"

MS. Poem.

Last Christmas Day! my heart leaps with joy at its very memory; it was a mental Noel, a Christmas
of the soul, (if I may thus express myself.) That which I am about to relate of it is strictly
true, and I do relate it because that day is one of the very few in our brief existence which
form a moral epoch in, and influence subsequent, life. Last Christmas Day, I well remember,
my spirit revelled in an Eden blessedness--a bliss which the unholy world did not, could not,
give, and consequently could not take away. Reader! I will hope, I will believe, that thou
hast experienced feelings and emotions, like those high and holy ones of which I would endeavour
now to preserve a faint transcript. Come then, let us unite our ideas, let us speak together,
but let us yet mention as present, those beatific thoughts and imaginings which are indeed
past. Let us ever remember and cherish in our heart of hearts those golden fore-tastes of future
eternity, or (according to Platonism) those rapturous reminiscences of past, which prove beyond
logical demonstration, the existence of some vital principle in man, godlike in faculties,
in essence immaterial, in duration, immortal! It is Christmas Day, a deep, unearthly calm possesses
our minds; all passions are slumbering, save the beautiful and holy ones of adoring love, mingled
with overwhelming gratitude towards our maker, and philanthropic love, universal benevolence,
to man. It is winter, but one of those delicious days in which closing our eyes, so that we
behold not sad hosts of bare stems and branches, we may well deem that summer reigns! And a
summer indeed reigns in our bosoms! Now nature seems new and fascinating, as it did to Adam
when he wakened into life. Now, as for the first time, we discern with unspeakable emotions,
that divine affection as well as unlimited power, which actuates and supports creation. Now
we comprehend that the universe was designed to minister happiness to myriads of intelligent
beings; but that man, by sin, frustrates the gracious intent, and produces misery. Now the
glorious golden sun seems in its gladdening lustre, like a smile from its creator; a smile
beaming ineffable love, and joy, and peace. Now the sky, the pale, delicate, sapphire sky,
the soft, tender, inviting, enfolding, and immeasurable sky, appears to image the mercy of
its maker. Let us yet gaze upon the sky, for it also admonishes us of other delightful things;
it is silent--it is awful--it is holy; but its silence is beautiful, and with wordless eloquence
it speaks unto our enraptured bosoms of deep, eternal, unimaginable repose! it infuses into
our breasts undefinable ideas and sensations; it appears to our enchanted imaginations an emblem
meet of the grand dream of eternity, and our spirits seem on the verge of quitting earth, in
thrilling contemplations on the islands of that infinite abyss, and their immortal inhabitants!

  These be the angels that convey
  Us weary children of a day
    Life's tedious nothing o'er,
  Where neither passions come, nor woes
  To vex the genius of repose
    On death's majestic shore!"

Then do our delighted eyes wander downward; then doth earth appear a glorious, though but a
temporary palace, the gift of a gracious God to man! then do we feel an unaccountable assurance
that angels visit the beautiful domain; then that (though viewlessly) they rejoice with, they
sorrow for, (if angels can sorrow) and they minister unto "the heirs of salvation," as they
did in the days of old, and as they will do, to the end of time. Were we not assured of this
blessed fact in the book of books, reason would assert, that for a thankless, graceless generation
alone, earth should not have been formed so divinely fair; but it is heavenly, that the immortal
servitors of man may even here find records of the divinity, and themes for undying thanksgiving.
Are we indeed visited, watched, and ministered unto, by beatific essences? Oh, reason and revelation,
both loudly proclaim the fact; those beneficent beings may be with us then, when we deem ourselves
alone; they may be our society in the solitude of our chambers; they may pass us in the breeze,
and they may wander beside us in our loneliest walks. Such meditations are calculated to inspire
our bosoms with new life; to brighten all nature around us, and to unite us to the invisible
world by ties, of the existence of which we were never previously sensible; ties, at once so
sweet and so sacred, that we almost crave the blessing of death, in order more surely to strengthen
them! Then doth the beauty of "the vale of tears" confound us; then doth it infuse into our
bosoms such unalterable fore-tastes; such mysterious and undefinable sensations of the blessedness
of "the isles of joy," that our very souls seem to have become but one prayer, one fervent,
wordless, agonizing prayer, for divine repose, and unimaginable blessedness; and then doth
the mere suggestion of final reprobation amount to insufferable torture! Oh, that such heavenly
imaginings, such divine intimations of a transcendent futurity, were more frequently vouchsafed
to us, and were less evanescent. They are glimpses of everlasting day, shining on wanderers
in "the valley of the shadow of death;" they are droppings from the overflowing and ineffable
cup of mercy; they are presciences of eternity, inestimable, unutterable! and the pen that
would describe indescribable perceptions, droops in shame and sorrow at its own imbecility.
Such perceptions have visited, do visit us, on this most rapturous of Christmas Days? Is it
not a golden day? does it not remove us for a little space from earth, into the society of
the holiest sentient beings, and to the beauty of a celestial, surpassing, world? Does it not
bestow on our souls their long-lost ethereal wings? and do not the delighted strangers soar
for a little while above the grossest realms of matter? Alas! even but for a little while;
now do they drop, for now flag and droop those angelic pinions which are too humid and heavy
with that atmosphere, from whence they could not wholly disengage themselves; the golden harps
of heaven murmur in their entranced ears no longer; the smiles of the Sons of Peace fade from
their enchanted sight; and the clouds of this nether world retain from their enamoured gaze,
the treasures of infinity!

Perhaps we have enjoyed a very enthusiastic, a very poetical, Christmas Day! we pretend not
to deny it, though steadfastly believing it was neither an anti-Christian, nor an utterly unprofitable
one; nay, we even venture to hope, that the beatitude of spirit just feebly portrayed was not
unpleasing in His sight, unto whom, for His gift of immortal life, we upon Christmas Day render
our peculiar thanksgivings!

M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FALL OF ZARAGOZA.

(For the Mirror.)

  Awake, awake, the trumpet hath sung its lay to the sunny sky,
  And the glorious shout from Spanish lips gives forth its wild reply.
  Awake, awake, how the chargers foam, as to battle they dash on,
  Oh, Zaragoza, on this proud day, must thy walls be lost or won!

  His hand--the hand of the youthful chief was on his flashing sword,
  And his plume gleam'd white thro' the smoke and flame o'er the lofty
         city pour'd--
  And the banners around him darkly swept like the waves of a stormy sea,
  But Zaragoza, amid this strife, his heart was firm to thee.

  "Away, away, tread her walls to dust!"--the Gallic warriors cried
  "Defend, my bands, your hearth and home," the youthful chief replied.
  They caught the sound of this spirit-voice as they stay'd their foes'
        career,
  And many a thrilling cry was heard, when the bayonet met the spear

  In vain, ye heroes, do you breathe your latest vows to heaven,
  In vain is your devoted blood in the cause of Freedom given,
  For when the morn awakes again, your city shall not be
  The haunt of maids who warbled deep, their sweetest songs for ye!

  But the story of your hallow'd death shall not remain unsung,
  Oh, its record shall be glorified by many a minstrel tongue
  For Freedom's holy light hath touch'd each ruin'd shrine and wall,
  That sadly speak unto the heart of Zaragoza's fall.

Deal.

REGINALD AUGUSTINE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BANQUETTING HOUSE, WHITEHALL.[1]

    [1] For a general description of this magnificent edifice, see
        MIRROR, No. 247.

(For the Mirror.)

Many persons who have visited this chapel may not have noticed or been aware of the splendid
painted ceiling by Sir Peter Paul Rubens, which was executed by him when ambassador at the
court of James I. This beautiful performance represents the apotheosis of that peaceful monarch,
he being seated on his throne, and turning towards the deities of peace and commerce, having
rejected the gods of war and discord. It is painted on canvass, and is in excellent preservation;
the original painter had £3,000. for his labour; it has been retouched more than once, and
the last time was by Cipriani, who had £2,000. for his repairs.

Ralph, in his Critical Review of Public Buildings, observes, "that this picture is not so generally
known as one could wish, but needs only to be known to be esteemed according to its merits;"
and he further adds, "it is but an ill decoration for a place of religious worship, for in
the first place, its contents are nowise akin to devotion, and in the next, the workmanship
is so very extraordinary that a man must have abundance of zeal or no taste, that can attend
to anything besides."

It is almost needless to remark, that it was from a passage broken for the occasion through
the wall of this building, that the unfortunate Charles was conducted by the regicides to his
death; this passage still remains, and now serves as a doorway to an additional building in
Scotland Yard: and nearly facing this doorway stood the ingenious Dial, engraved and described
in No. 400, of the MIRROR. The next important and public event connected with this building
occurred in 1811, when a very different and far more gratifying spectacle took place, being
that of the ceremony of placing in the chapel, the eagles and other colours taken by our gallant
troops during the war. There were six standards and the like number of regimental colours,
which after having been presented at the altar were affixed to the places they now occupy.
There is a singular circumstance attached to the history of one of the eagles which may be
well introduced in this place; it may be distinguished from the others by its having a wreath
placed round its neck, the flag itself being destroyed. It was the usual custom for the eagles
to be attached to the staves on which they are borne by a screw, so that in the event of any
imminent danger, they might be taken off and secured; but Napoleon on his presenting this standard
to his 8th regiment, observed, it was impossible that it should be taken from so brave a body
of men as they had always proved themselves to be, and desired it might be rivetted to the
staff, which was accordingly done; and probably had it not been for this order the eagle might
have escaped our valiant 87th, by whom it was taken on the heights of Barossa.

On Maundy Thursday another gratifying ceremony takes place, viz, the distribution of the Maundy
Money to as many poor people as the years of his majesty's age. This money consists of the
smaller silver coins, being each in value from 1d. to 4d.; these are enclosed in a small, white
kid bag, which is again enveloped in another of crimson leather.

A.P.D.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

TOUCHING FOR THE KING'S EVIL.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Having read an interesting paper from your ingenious correspondent P.T.W. in your number of
the 14th of November, respecting "Touching for the Cure of the King's Evil," it occurred to
me that some farther information relative to the original of that "hereditary miracle," as
Mr. Collier is pleased to term it, might not be uninteresting to some of your readers: I therefore
send you the following:--

Stowe, in his Annals, accounts for the origin of touching for the evil, in the following manner:--"A
young woman who was afflicted with this disorder in a very alarming manner, and to a most disgusting
degree, feeling uneasiness and pain consequent upon it in her sleep, dreamt that she should
be cured by the simple operation of having the part washed with the king's hand. Application
was consequently made to Edward, by her friends, who very humanely consented to perform the
unpleasant request. A basin of water was brought, with which he carefully softened the humours,
till they broke, and the contents discharged; the sign of the cross wound up the charm; and
the female retired, with the assurance of his protection during the remainder of the cure,
which was effected within a week." This is somewhat differently related in Ailred's History
of the Life and Miracles of Edward the Confessor, an extract from which may be found in a note
to the first volume of Rapin's History of England.

The following curious advertisement was issued by the order of King Charles II. for healing
the people, on the 18th of May, 1664.

"Notice.

"His sacred majesty having declared it to be his royal will and purpose to continue the healing
of his people for the evil during the month of May, and then give over till Michaelmas next;
I am commanded to give notice thereof, that the people may not come up to the town in the interim,
and lose their labour."

Thomas Mousewell was tried for high treason in 1684, for having spoken with contempt of King
Charles's pretensions to cure the scrofula.

In a manuscript account of the Restoration, written by Thomas Gumble, D.D. Chaplain to General
Monck, in the year 1662, is the following description of the ceremony:--" There was a great
chair placed for the king, in a place somewhat distant from the people. As soon as the king
was sate, one of the clerks of the closet stood at the right side of his chair, holding on
his arm as many gold angels (every one tied in a ribbon of white silk) as there were sick to
be touched, which were in number, forty-eight. Dr. Brown, the chaplain of the Princess of Aurange,
performed the place of the king's chaplain. The chaplain then read the sixteenth chapter of
St. Mark, from the fourteenth verse to the end; and then the chirurgeon presented the sick,
(having examined them to see that it was the evil) after three reverences on their knees, before
the king, who, whilst the chaplain said these words in that gospel: 'They shall lay their hands
upon the sick, and they shall be healed,' layed his hands on the two cheeks of the sick, saying,
'I touch thee, but God healeth thee!' The chaplain then began another gospel; and whilst these
words were pronounced out of the first chapter of St. John: 'This was the true light which
lighteth every man that cometh into the world,' his majesty took the pieces of gold, and put
them on the necks of the diseased, the chaplain repeating the words as many times as there
were persons to receive them, concluding with a prayer, 'That Almighty God would bless the
ceremony;' then, after the reverences as before, they retired. The Earls of Middlesex and St.
Albans held the bason, ewer, and towel, whilst the king washed."

In Nicholls's Literary Anecdotes of the Eighteenth Century, vol. ii. p. 495, 505, many curious
particulars relating to this ceremony are to be found.

As the custom has now for some time been discontinued, and the credulity of those who believed
in its efficacy, laughed at, I hope it will not be long ere that disgusting custom of allowing
persons (of whom women in general form by far the greater number) afflicted with the king's
evil, and different other disorders, to come on the scaffold immediately after the execution
of a criminal, for the purpose of touching the part affected, with the hand of the but just
dead malefactor, will be put a stop to; it being the very height of absurdity to imagine that
it can be productive of any good effect; but on the contrary, tending to divest the minds of
the surrounding multitude of that awe with which the ignominious spectacle should impress them.

[Greek: S.G.]

In the trifling paper I sent you respecting "Cats," which you deemed worthy of insertion in
No. 398, you have it "by some merchants from the Island of Cyprus, who came hither for fur,"
it should be tin--Fur being an article of importation.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKSELLERS' MARKS OR SIGNS.

(For the Mirror.)

Many books, especially those printed in the 17th century, have no other designation either
of printer, bookseller, or even city, but merely marks or signs. The anchor is the mark of
Raphelengius, at Leyden; and the same with a dolphin twisted round it, of the Mantuii, at Venice
and Rome; the Arion denotes a book printed by Oporrinus, at Basil; the caduceus, or pegasus,
by the Wechelliuses, at Paris and Frankfort; the cranes, by Cramoisy; the compass, by Plantin,
at Antwerp; the fountain, by Vascosan, at Paris; the sphere in a balance, by Janson, or Blaew,
at Amsterdam; the lily, by the Juntas, at Venice, Florence, Lyons, and Rome; the mulberry-tree,
by Morel, at Paris; the olive-tree, by the Stephenses, at Paris and Geneva, and the Elzevirs,
at Amsterdam and Leyden; the bird between two serpents, by the Frobeniuses, at Basil; the truth,
by the Commelins, at Heidelberg and Paris; the Saturn, by Collinaeus; the printing press, by
Badius Ascensius, &c.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

DIFFERENT COLOURS OF THE EGGS OF BIRDS.

It is a remarkable fact in the economy of nature, that of those birds whose nests are the most
liable to discovery, and whose eggs are most exposed to observation from the form of the nests,
the eggs are of that colour which is the least different from the surrounding objects; whilst
those birds whose eggs are of a bright and positive colour, hide their nests in the hollows
of trees, or never quit them, excepting in the night, or sit immediately that they have laid
one or two eggs. It is also to be observed that of those species which build an exposed nest,
and the females of which alone perform the duty of incubation, the colour of the female is
much less bright than that of the male, and more in harmony with the objects by which she is
surrounded during the period in which she sits upon her eggs. It would seem, therefore, that
those birds which lay a brightly-coloured egg have the instinct to make a close nest, or to
place it in the least exposed situations; while those which lay a sober-coloured egg are less
solicitous to conceal it from the notice of their enemies. M. Gloger, a German naturalist,
has paid great attention to this curious circumstance, and has very recently published an elaborate
memoir, in a work printed at Berlin, in which he notices the habits of all the species of birds
indigenous to Germany, in confirmation of the theory. Our limits will not allow us to notice
the particular species which he enumerates; but it may be sufficient to excite attention to
this subject, to mention, that the birds which lay an egg perfectly white (the most attractive
of colours) make their nests in holes of the earth, and cavities of trees, such as the kingfisher
and the woodpecker, or construct them with a very narrow opening, as the domestic swallow;
that the same coloured egg is found amongst the birds which scarcely quit their nests in the
day, as hawks and owls; and that such birds as doves, which only lay one or two eggs, and sit
immediately after, have their eggs white. The bright blue or bright green egg belongs to birds
which make their nests in holes, as the starling, or construct them of green moss, or place
them in the midst of grass, but always well covered. The eggs of many gallinaceous birds, that
make their nests carelessly in the grass, are of a pale and less decided green, such as those
of the partridge and pheasant. Of the mixed-coloured eggs, those of which white forms the ground
belong to birds that make very close nests. Speckled eggs, with a dark or dirty ground, belong
to the largest number of species. Almost all the song birds lay such eggs; and building open
nests, they almost invariably line the inside of them with materials of a harmonious colour
with the eggs, so that no evident contrast is presented which would lead to their destruction.--Companion
to the Almanac.

       *       *       *       *       *

EFFECTS OF SEA AIR.

Those who frequent the sea-coast are not long in discovering that their best dyed black hats
become of a rusty brown; and similar effects are produced on some other colours. The brown
is, in fact, rust. Most, if not all, the usual black colours have iron for a basis, the black
oxide of which is developed by galls, logwood, or other substances containing gallic acid.
Now the sea-air contains a proportion of the muriates over which it is wafted; and these coming
in contact with any thing dyed black, part with their hydrochloric (muriatic) acid, and form
brown hydrochlorate of iron, or contribute to form the brown or red oxide, called rust. The
gallic acid, indeed, from its superior affinity, has the strongest hold of the iron; but the
incessant action of the sea-air, loaded with muriates, partially overcomes this, in the same
way as any acid, even of inferior affinity to the gallic, when put upon black stuff, will turn
it brown.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DUGONG, THE MERMAID OF EARLY WRITERS.

Of all the cetacea, that which approaches the nearest in form to man is undoubtedly the dugong,
which, when its head and breast are raised above the water, and its pectoral fins, resembling
hands, are visible, might easily be taken by superstitious seamen for a semi-human being.--Edinburgh
Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIDERS.

Live and grow without food. Out of fifty spiders produced on the last day of August, and which
were kept entirely without food, three lived to the 8th of February following, and even visibly
increased in bulk. Was it from the effluvia arising from the dead bodies of their companions
that they lived so long? Other spiders were kept in glass vessels without food, from the 15th
of July till the end of January. During that time they cast their skins more than once, as
if they had been well fed.--Redi, Generat. Insect.

Spiders are excellent barometers: if the ends of their webs are found branching out to any
length, it is a sure sign of favourable weather: if, on the contrary, they are found short,
and the spider does not attend to repairing it properly, bad weather may be expected.--Times.

       *       *       *       *       *

SWARMING OF BEES.

The ingenious President of the Horticultural Society, Mr. T.A. Knight, has been led from repeated
observation to infer, that, in the swarming of bees, not a single labourer emigrates without
previously inspecting its proposed future habitation, as well as the temporary stations of
rest where their numbers collect soon after swarming.--Philosophical Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CHAMELEON'S ANTIPATHY TO BLACK.

Whatever may be the cause, the fact seems to be certain, that the chameleon has an antipathy
to things of a black colour. One, which Forbes kept, uniformly avoided a black board which
was hung up in the chamber; and, what is most remarkable, when it was forcibly brought before
the black board, it trembled violently, and assumed a black colour.--Oriental Mem.

       *       *       *       *       *

RULES FOR THE WEATHER.

A wet summer is always followed by a frosty winter; but it happens occasionally that the cold
extends no farther. Two remarkable instances of this occurred in 1807-8 and 1813-14. With these
exceptions, every frosty winter has been followed by a cold summer.

The true cause of cold, or rather the direct cause, is to be found in the winter excess of
west wind, every winter with excess of west wind being followed by a cold summer; and if there
is no cold before, or during a first excess, then a second excess of west wind in winter occasions
a still colder summer than the first. It also appears, by repeated experience, that cold does
not extend to more than two years at a time.

Again, if the winter excess of east wind be great, in the first instance, the winters will
be mild, and followed by mild summers; while the summer excess of east wind is itself, in the
first instance, always mild; but uniformly followed by cold winters and cold summers, which
continue, more or less, for one or two years, according to circumstances.--Mackenzie, Syst.
of the Weather.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

       *       *       *       *       *

PERIODICAL LITERATURE.

Periodical Literature--how sweet is the name! The Periodicals of external nature would soon
all lose their meaning, were there no longer any Periodicals of the soul. They are the parents,
or publishers, or editors, of all the others--principal contributors--nay, subscribers too--and
may their pretty family live for ever, still dying, yet ever renewed, and on the increase every
year.

Only look at Maga! One hundred and forty-eight months old! and yet lovely as maiden between
frock and gown--even as sweet sixteen! Not a wrinkle on cheek or forehead! No crow-foot has
touched her eyes--

  "Her eye's blue languish, and her golden hair!"

Like an antelope in the wilderness--or swan on the river--or eagle in the sky. Dream that she
is dead, and oh! what a world! Yet die she must some day--so must the moon and stars. Meanwhile
there is a blessing in prayers--and hark! how the nations cry, "Oh! Maga, live for ever!"

We often pity our poor ancestors. How they contrived to make the ends meet, surpasses our conjectural
powers. What a weary waste must have seemed expanding before their eyes, between morning and
night! Don't tell us that the human female never longs for other pastime than

  "To suckle fools and chronicle small beer."

True, ladies sighed not then for periodicals--but there, in the depths of their ignorance,
lay their utter wretchedness. What! keep pickling and preserving during the whole mortal life
of an immortal being! Except when at jelly, everlastingly at jam! The soul sickens at the monotonous
sweetness of such a wersh existence. True that many sat all life-long at needlework; but is
not that a very sew-sew sort of life? Then oh! the miserable males! We speak of times after
the invention, it is true, of printing--but who read what were called books then? Books! no
more like our periodicals, than dry, rotten, worm-eaten, fungous logs are like green living
leafy trees, laden with dews, bees, and birds, in the musical sunshine. What could males do
then but yawn, sleep, snore, guzzle, guttle, and drink till they grew dead and got buried?
Fox-hunting won't always do--and often it is not to be had; who can be happy with his gun through
good report and bad report in an a' day's rain? Small amusement in fishing in muddy water;
palls upon the sense quarrelling with neighbours on points of etiquette and the disputed property
of hedgerow trees; a fever in the family ceases to raise the pulse of any inmate, except the
patient; death itself is no relief to the dulness; a funeral is little better; the yawn of
the grave seems a sort of unhallowed mockery; the scutcheon hung out on the front of the old
dismal hall, is like a sign on a deserted Spittal; along with sables is worn a suitable stupidity
by all the sad survivors.--And such, before the era of Periodicals, such was the life in--merry
England. Oh! dear!--oh! dear me!

We shall not enter into any historical details--for this is not a Monologue for the Quarterly--but
we simply assert, that in the times we allude to (don't mention dates) there was little or
no reading in England. There was neither the Reading Fly nor the Reading Public. What could
this be owing to, but the non-existence of Periodicals? What elderly-young lady could be expected
to turn from house affairs, for example, to Spenser's Fairy Queen? It is a long, long, long
poem, that Fairy Queen of Spenser's; nobody, of course, ever dreamt of getting through it;
but though you may have given up all hope of getting through a poem or a wood, you expect to
be able to find your way back again to the spot where you unluckily got in; not so, however,
with the Fairy Queen. Beautiful it is indeed, most exquisitely and unapproachably beautiful
in many passages, especially about ladies and ladies' love more than celestial, for Venus loses
in comparison her lustre in the sky; but still people were afraid to get into it then as now;
and "heavenly Una, with her milk-white lamb," lay buried in dust. As to Shakspeare, we cannot
find many traces of him in the domestic occupations of the English gentry during the times
alluded to; nor do we believe that the character of Hamlet was at all relished in their halls,
though perhaps an occasional squire chuckled at the humours of Sir John Falstaff. We have Mr.
Wordsworth's authority for believing that Paradise Lost was a dead letter, and John Milton
virtually anonymous. We need say no more. Books like these, huge heavy vols. lay with other
lumber in the garrets and libraries. As yet, Periodical Literature was not; and the art of
printing seems long to have preceded the art of reading. It did not occur to those generations
that books were intended to be read by people in general, but only by the select few. Whereas
now, reading is not only one of the luxuries, but absolutely one of the necessaries of life,
and we now no more think of going without our book than without our breakfast; lunch consists
now of veal-pies and Venetian Bracelets--we still dine on Roast-beef, but with it, instead
of Yorkshire pudding, a Scotch novel--Thomas Campbell and Thomas Moore sweeten tea for us--and
in "Course of Time" we sup on a Welsh rabbit and a Religious Poem.

We have not time--how can we?--to trace the history of the great revolution. But a great revolution
there has been, from nobody's reading anything, to every body's reading all things; and perhaps
it began with that good old proser Richardson, the father of Pamela, Clarissa, and Sir Charles
Grandison. He seems to have been a sort of idiot, who had a strange insight into some parts
of human nature, and a tolerable acquaintance with most parts of speech. He set the public
a-reading, and Fielding and Smollett shoved her on--till the Minerva Press took her in hand--and
then--the Periodicals. But such Periodicals! The Gentleman's Magazine--God bless it then, now,
and for ever!--the Monthly Review, the Critical and the British Critic! The age had been for
some years literary, and was now fast becoming periodical. Magazines multiplied. Arose in glory
the Edinburgh, and then the Quarterly Review--Maga, like a new sun, looked out from heaven--from
her golden urn a hundred satellites drew light--and last of all, "the Planetary Five," the
Annuals, hung their lamps on high; other similar luminous bodies emerged from the clouds, till
the whole circumference was bespangled, and astronomy became the favourite study with all ranks
of people, from the King upon the throne to the meanest of his subjects. Now, will any one
presume to deny, that this has been a great change to the better, and that there is now something
worth living for in the world? Look at our literature now, and it is all periodical together.
A thousand daily, thrice-a-week, twice-a week, weekly newspapers, a hundred monthlies, fifty
quarterlies, and twenty-five annuals! No mouth looks up now and is not fed; on the contrary,
we are in danger of being crammed; an empty head is as rare as an empty stomach; the whole
day is one meal, one physical, moral, and intellectual feast; the Public goes to bed with a
Periodical in her hand, and falls asleep with it beneath her pillow.

What blockhead thinks now of reading Milton, or Pope, or Gray? Paradise Lost is lost; it has
gone to the devil. Pope's Epistles are returned to the dead-letter office; the age is too loyal
for "ruin seize thee, ruthless king," and the oldest inhabitant has forgotten "the curfew tolls."--Blackwood's
Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR, AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. LARDNER'S CYCLOPAEDIA.

History of Scotland.  By Sir Walter Scott, Bart. Vol. I.

The rapid and sketchy page just quoted from Blackwood's Magazine will illustrate the high ground
which periodical literature is daily attaining in this country. Of this ascendancy, the volume
before us is indeed a fine specimen, and one of which we have reason to entertain a national
pride. We know it to be a common practice with publishers on the continent to produce long
works volume by volume, so that Dr. Lardner's plan is by no means novel; but we should also
bear in mind that, compared with our family and cabinet libraries, the majority of similar
foreign works are mere flimsy productions; and the Encyclopedie Methodique, published in monthly
volumes, in Paris, both in quantity and execution, will not reach our literary standards of
1829. As Dr. Lardner's plan is well known, it need not here be repeated; neither need we remark
upon the high qualifications of Sir Walter Scott, as an historian of Scotland. An extract shall
speak for itself; and perhaps we cannot do better than select one of the battle-pieces, which
has all the vividness of the finest historical painting: say

BANNOCKBURN.

"Robert Bruce summoned the array of his kingdom to rendezvous in the Tor-wood, about four miles
from Stirling, and by degrees prepared the field of battle which he had selected for the contest.
It was a space of ground then called the New Park--perhaps reserved for the chase, since Stirling
was frequently a royal residence. This ground was partly open, partly encumbered with trees,
in groups or separate. It was occupied by the Scottish line of battle, extending from south
to north, and fronting to the east. In this position, Bruce's left flank and rear might have
been exposed to a sally from the castle of Stirling; but Mowbray the governor's faith was beyond
suspicion, and the king was not in apprehension that he would violate the tenour of the treaty,
by which he was bound to remain in passive expectation of his fate. The direct approach to
the Scottish front was protected in a great measure by a morass called the New-miln Bog. A
brook, called Bannockburn, running to the eastward, between rocky and precipitous banks, effectually
covered the Scottish right wing, which rested upon it, and was totally inaccessible. Their
left flank was apparently bare, but was, in fact, formidably protected in front by a peculiar
kind of field-works. As the ground in that part of the field was adapted for the manoeuvres
of cavalry Bruce caused many rows of pits, three feet deep, to be dug in it, so close together,
as to suggest the appearance of a honeycomb, with its ranges of cells. In these pits sharp
stakes were strongly pitched, and the apertures covered with sod so carefully, as that the
condition of the ground might escape observation. Calthrops, or spikes contrived to lame the
horses, were also scattered in different directions.

"Having led his troops into the field of combat, on the tidings of the English approach, the
23d of June, 1314, the King of Scotland ordered his soldiers to arm themselves, and making
proclamation that those who were not prepared to conquer or die with their sovereign were at
liberty to depart, he was answered by a cheerful and general expression of their determination
to take their fate with him. The King proceeded to draw up the army in the following order:
Three oblong columns or masses of infantry, armed with lances, arranged on the same front,
with intervals betwixt them formed his first line. Of these Edward Bruce had the guidance of
the right wing, James Douglas and Walter, the Steward of Scotland, of the left, and Thomas
Randolph of the central division. These three commanders had their orders to permit no English
troops to pass their front, in order to gain Stirling. The second line, forming one column
or mass, consisted of the men of the isles, under Bruce's faithful friend and ally, the insular
prince Angus, his own men of Carrick, and those of Argyle and Cantire. With these the king
posted himself in order to carry support and assistance wherever it might be required. With
himself also he kept in the rear a select body of horse, the greater part of whom he designed
for executing a particular service. The followers of the camp were dismissed with the baggage,
to station themselves behind an eminence to the rear of the Scottish army, still called the
Gillies' (that is, the servants') hill....

