     'The cause of every accused person shall be adjudged publicly, in
     conformity to our divine law, after due inquiry and investigation;
     and as long as sentence shall not have been regularly pronounced,
     no one shall, either publicly or privately, cause another to perish
     by prison or any other deadly means.'

     'It shall not be permitted to any one to injure another,
     whosoever he may be.'

     'Every man shall possess his own property, and shall dispose of it
     with the most entire liberty. Thus, for example, the innocent heirs
     of a criminal shall not be deprived of their legal rights, and the
     goods of the criminal shall not be confiscated.'

     'The imperial concessions extend to all subjects, whatever may be
     their religion or sect; they shall reap the benefit of them without
     exception.'

     'As to the other points, since they must be regulated by the
     concourse of enlightened opinion, our council of justice, with whom
     shall assemble, on certain days to be fixed by us, the notables of
     the land, shall meet together to lay down guiding laws on the
     points that affect the security of life, honor, and fortune, and
     the assessment of imposts.'

     'As soon as a law shall be defined, in order to render it valid and
     binding, it shall be laid before us to receive our sanction, which
     we Will write with our imperial hand.'

     'As these present institutions have no other object than to give
     fresh life and vigor to religion, the government, the nation, and
     the empire, we pledge ourselves to do nothing to counteract them.
     Whoever of the ulemas or chief men of the empire, or any other sort
     of person, shall violate these institutions, shall undergo the
     punishment awarded to his offence, without respect to his rank, or
     personal consideration and credit.'

     'As all the functionaries of the government receive at the present
     day suitable salaries, and as those that are not sufficient shall
     be increased, a vigorous law shall be enacted against traffic in
     posts and favors, which the divine law reprobates, and which is one
     of the principal causes of the decline of the empire.'

As a pledge of his promise, the sultan, after having deposited the documents in the hall that
contains the 'glorious mantle' of the prophet, in the presence of the ulemas and chief men,
swore to them in the name of God, and administered the same oath to the priests and officers.
The hatti-scheriff was published in every part of the empire, and was well received, except
by a few of the retrograde party, who lived by the old abuses, and vigorously resisted all
attempts at reformation.

By this ordinance, the sources of the revenue consist of the frontier customs, the tithes,
and a property tax. In two of these three sources of revenue there are great abuses. In collecting
the taxes, the tax gatherers make exhorbitant demands, for which (owing to the partiality of
justice) there is no redress, The salguin, or land tax, is also the cause of constant complaint.
It presses equally upon the richest and the poorest provinces; in consequence of which many
of the most fertile districts have been deserted. The government is not ignorant of these facts.
Abdul Medjid, a short time previous to his death, ordered a new registration of property to
be made, which will, in a great measure, remedy this evil. This new registration caused not
a little astonishment and fear among the peasants, who could not approve of persons taking
an inventory of their property and their flocks. We must not be surprised at this, for a parallel
case is close at hand. When the Emperor Joseph endeavored to introduce the mode of distinguishing
houses in the principal streets of Vienna, by numbers instead of the antiquated mode by printed
signs, the people were impressed with the idea that the numbers were affixed for the purpose
of more conveniently collecting a new house tax!

The new system of farming the revenue proved especially beneficial to the Christians. Under
the old regime the Turks had been greatly favored. The poll tax formerly levied on all who
were not professed followers of the prophet, has been abolished.

The empire is wealthy--immensely wealthy; but the money is in the hands of the few. If we except
the province of Servia, feudal lords, and tax collectors, the whole Turkish population consists
of peasants, who till the soil on an equality of wretchedness. Yet it is to these same suffering
peasants, the bone and sinew of the land, that reformers must look for support. It was the
peasantry of Servia, headed by George the Black, that in 1800-1812, rose in rebellion, and
whose success infused life and vigor into the more passive provinces. They, too, were peasants--those
brave and resolute men who expelled from the provinces the robber princes, and almost gained
a national existence. Many of these same peasants, men in whose breasts still lingered the
valor that made their ancestors famous, joined the Grecian army in the successful struggle
for independence; even Moslem peasants left their ploughs in the furrow and their herds unattended,
to join the insurgents, to whose success they greatly contributed. The heroes of all Turkish
rebellions have been peasants--the men of strong arms and unswerving energy. They are naturally
of a passive disposition, but when once roused to action by religion or patriotism, they are
as firm and unyielding in their purpose as their own

                       'Pontic sea,
   Whose icy currents and compulsive course
   Ne'er feels returning ebb, but keeps due on
   To the Propontic and the Hellespont.'

In the hands of the peasantry lies the destiny of the empire, its regeneration or its fall.
By ameliorating their condition and gaining their good will, the sultans cannot fail to succeed
in their reforms. By working in opposition to them and exciting their enmity, success is impossible.

The social system introduced by the victorious Othmans among the conquered nations was not
as oppressive as is generally believed. The Turks, unlike the Germanic nations, the Huns and
Normans, did not take forcible possession of private property and divide it among their conquering
hordes. From those who acknowledged themselves subject to their rule, the Turks exacted tribute,
but protected their liberties and political institutions. The conquerors introduced their laws
into the country, but not forcibly. To those who still adhered to the Christian religion, they
extended the rights of self-government, subject, however, to a military tax. This was very
far from degrading the cultivators of the soil to servitude; this did not deprive them of their
possessions, inherited or purchased. But by a gradual change in the government this civil equality
and liberty in the possession of property was superseded by an aristocratic and almost absolute
despotism. The Ottomans came in contact with a people ruling under Byzantine law, of which
(as of the feudal system) they had but a confused knowledge. The feudal system having taken
root in Greece, and having been already introduced into Albania, had necessarily much influence
on the contiguous provinces of Moldavia and Wallachia, Servia and Bulgaria. Here the Greek
emperors, with correct notions of right and wrong, had governed wisely and justly in a simple
administration, which gave place to a complicated system of laws and refinements, as unintelligible
as they were useless and ineffective. In the double heritage of Greece and Rome, the conquerors
imitated only their faults, moral and intellectual, and thus made more prominent the fall of
the two countries. The Turks were not sufficiently enlightened to understand the laws and customs
of the Greeks and Romans, and profit thereby; nor could they resist the charm thrown around
aristocracy and venality, but succumbed to their baneful influences. The degeneracy of the
laws caused the misery of the peasantry, and paralyzed the energies of the empire. The pashas
gained almost unlimited power, founded on the ruins of civil liberty. They did not scruple
to persecute the suffering peasant, even in the sanctuary of his family--held in the highest
veneration by the Turk. The peasants in many instances had no other alternative than to fly
to the mountains for safety, and lead a wretched existence by rapine and murder. Some left
Turkey to settle in Russia and Austria, in search of that liberty and protection which was
denied them at home.

The Turkish peasants are not insensible to the degradation in which they are languishing. But
accustomed, in suffering and privation, to find consolation in fatalism--which teaches implicit
acquiescence in and obedience to the will of Allah--they drag out their days in passive submission.
Seditions are almost always excited by unbelievers, who feel their wrongs more deeply. The
devout Turkish peasant seeks no better fortune than the means wherewith to build a little cabin,
with windows and doors religiously closed to vulgar eyes. He finds comfort in the words of
his holy book: 'He is the happiest of mortals to whom God has given contentment.' He performs
his daily labor, makes his prostrations, smokes his chibouk, and lives oblivious of care. He
is far from being indifferent to reforms, but is loth to take the initiative in political innovations
and social wars. His heart is with the cause, but here also he is resigned: 'God is great--His
will be done.' This same spirit of resignation and submission to the divine will, from being
a virtue becomes his greatest curse.

The Servians, a hardy and vigorous race, who pride themselves on their victories over the Moslems,
stand in the van of the reform movement. By the new constitution given to Servia in 1838, there
exists no longer any distinction of classes. All pay taxes, in proportion to the value of their
property, to the municipal and general government. All the peasants are proprietors, and all
the proprietors are peasants. The Servians and Albanians have never refused foreign aid. They
gave a kind welcome to the legions that Nicholas sent across the Pruth, and worked in concert
with the brave warriors of the north, in the hope of gaining a nationality and a recognized name.

The moral condition of the Bulgarians does not differ essentially from that of the Servians;
but there is a wide difference in their political organization. The Bulgarians are yet only
peasants, unprotected against the violence and exactions of the sultan. They are more enterprising
than the Servians, and, could they enjoy an equitable legislation, would soon vie with them
in wealth and prosperity. They envy the national and democratic institutions of the Servians,
who are related to them by blood, by religion, and a common tongue. They are eager for reforms,
both social and political, which shall give them a constitution similar to that of Servia.
In this they must ultimately succeed. The two people are one in their sympathies: one cannot
enjoy privileges without exciting the jealousy of the other. Unless concessions are made, the
day is not far distant when the Bulgarians will revolt, as the Servians did under Tzerny George,
and gain the right of self-government.

The Illyrian peasants have not as promising a future. They are divided among themselves, both
in politics and religion; the several clans and parties are engaged in ceaseless strife and
bickering. On the most trivial pretence a community will rise in arms and carry ruin and desolation
to its neighbor. The face of the country everywhere shows signs of the terror under which it
groans. In many districts the humblest dwellings are fortified citadels, gloomy and threatening;
observatories are stationed in trees and on high cliffs, to guard against surprisals; the streets
of the towns and villages are traversed by gloomy figures of athletic savage warriors, with
fierce and sinister expression of countenance, and their right hand resting on a belt garnished
with its brace of pistols. They are in such a deplorable state of ignorance, and so blinded
by mutual hatred, that they are incapable of perceiving their wants and obtaining their rights
by concerted action.

The Servians and Bulgarians, although by nature not less warlike than the Illyrians, are more
pacific. This quality is, to a certain degree, attributable to a better government; but their
great advantage consists in their being friends of labor. They are not divided by internal
factions; their pistols serve for ornaments, not offensive weapons; their rude exterior hides
within a gentle, childlike nature. Though laborious, they seek not to amass wealth; kind to
each other, to strangers they are hospitable and generous. They are extremely courteous and
polite, and theirs is not the humility of the Austrian peasant, who kisses the scornful hand
of his superior; it is the deference and respect that youth bears to age, or the attention
which the host gives to a welcome guest.

In Servia and Bulgaria, Christianity has gained the ascendancy; the light of the gospel imparts
comfort and happiness to all; but the Illyrians, through a blind zeal in their social dissensions,
have debarred themselves from its vivifying and soothing influence.

During the early part of the last century, the peasants of the Moldo-Wallachian provinces were
enfranchised, but have not yet obtained the right of property legislation. Being contiguous
to Poland and Hungary, their attention is naturally called to all the noise of reform and to
all the social questions that agitate the two countries. Unless concessions are made, unless
the peasant is recognized as proprietor of the soil of which to-day he is but the farmer, a
revolution will take place, in which the Sublime Porte will lose these provinces as effectually
as it did the pashalies. It is not absolutely necessary, though it would be judicious, to give
Moldavia and Wallachia the same political organization as Servia enjoys. The question now,
is not of rulers, whether they shall be sent from the divan or chosen from the people; but
is of property legislation and municipal institutions.

In all his reforms, the sultan should remember that the material upon which he is to operate
lies in the peasantry.

The empire, however, cannot be thoroughly reformed merely by enfranchising the peasants, by
introducing European customs, by organizing new armies, building barracks, and establishing
custom houses. These improvements are the sign of a vigorous national impulse and prosperity;
they are the result, not the rudiments of civilization. The fact that the sultan wears French
boots and supplies his seraglio with the latest Parisian modes signifies nothing.

In its palmy days, Turkey relied for success on its courage and love of military glory; now
its welfare and very existence depend upon the peaceful arts of civilized life. The prosperity
of the people measures the condition of the empire. But how can an ignorant people prosper?
The time has come when a reform in the educational system of Turkey is emphatically demanded.
There must be intelligence among the people, and educated men in the cabinet as well as brave
men in the field. The innovating sultans of the last century have done much for the reconstruction
of the broken political fabric of the empire; they have organized a new and powerful army and
navy; they have facilitated commercial intercourse, but have done scarcely anything for the
diffusion of knowledge among their subjects.

All the knowledge in the empire is concentrated in the ulemas and lawyers. The members of the
Sublime Porte and other state officers, with but few exceptions, are unlettered men, who owe
their elevation, to partiality or bribery. Under Mahmoud, beauty of person was the best recommendation
to favor and promotion!

But Turkey has had her golden age of letters as well as her age of military glory. Her libraries
and archives are filled with unread, musty manuscripts, comprising treatises on philosophy
and metaphysics, histories, biographies, and poems, rich in the classic erudition of the Orient.
In 1336, Sultan Orkan found leisure from war and conquest to establish, at Brusa, a literary
institution, which became so famous for its learning, that Persians and Arabians did not disdain
to avail themselves of its instruction. But with the death of its founder its glory passed
away. It was no longer the fountain head of learning in the East.

The Turks, forgetful of the fact that antiquity is the youth of the world, still follow Aristotle
as their guide in philosophy and metaphysics, and Ptolemy in geography! Missionaries have succeeded
in introducing modern text books into some of the schools, but owing to the peculiar system
of Turkish education, the result has not been so favorable as was anticipated.

To each mosque is attached a school, where the pupils devote several years in acquiring the
rudiments of reading, writing, and arithmetic; which completes their education. But few foreign
instructors are employed to teach in the schools, because the government is unwilling to pay
a suitable salary. While on state officers wealth is lavished with the prodigality of oriental
munificence, instructors receive only a nominal recompense, often not exceeding six cents a day!

A few favored youths receive a European education, especially in French and Austrian colleges.
The oriental academy, established at Vienna by Maria Theresa for the education of diplomatists
to conduct intercourse with the Porte, has formed many illustrious Turkish scholars. It is
a singular but not unpleasant commentary on the vicissitudes of fortune, that Turkey should
send her sons to be educated at Vienna, which only two centuries ago a sultan besieged at the
head of an army of two hundred thousand men, and before whose gates he was defeated by the
combined Christian forces, who recovered eighty thousand Christian captives, among whom were
fourteen thousand maidens, and fifty thousand children of both sexes!

The Christian subjects of the empire have made visible progress in their educational system,
although it is yet in a very imperfect state. In the middle of the last century a body of Armenian
monks formed a society for promoting the educational interests of their countrymen. These pious
and benevolent men dwell alone on the little island of San Lazzaro, and publish works on literature,
science, and religion, which are distributed among the Turkish Armenians.

Printing presses have lately been set up in the large cities, and books are rapidly multiplying.
In Constantinople several newspapers are printed in French, Turkish, and Arabic; they are read
in every coffee house and barber shop, the common lounging places of the Ottoman, where he
smokes his pipe and discusses politics. Their columns are chiefly devoted to the discussion
of state affairs, and notices of public functionaries. The sultan is the virtual editor, and
consequently the papers are popular, as containing opinions on state policy ex cathedra. These
presses were established with the reluctant sanction of the ulemas, and the vigorous opposition
of the scribes, an influential body, protesting against the introduction of machinery, which
was to supersede the use of their fingers.

The council of public instruction at Constantinople has established a medical and polytechnic
school; in both, French, English, and German teachers are employed. To the medical college
is attached a botanical garden and a natural history museum. The medical library consists chiefly
of French works. The implements used to experiment in the physical sciences were made at Paris,
London, and Vienna, and are of the most approved kind. The number of students in attendance,
on an average, is seven hundred, comprising Turks, Greeks, Armenians, and Jews, all of whom
not only pay no tuition, but receive pecuniary assistance from the government. As science cannot
well be taught in Turkish, French is the language of the school.

It should be borne in mind that Turkey, in her reform movement, commenced this century, four
hundred years behind Europe. When we consider this, her advance in educational reformation
appears in a better light. The present law makes it a penal offence in a Turkish parent not
to send his children to school.

The universities, as well as the mosques and hospitals, are under the control of the ulemas,
who have always been a privileged and a sanctioned order, and by their sanctity and great wealth
are rendered the most formidable body in the empire. Selim and his successors somewhat lessened
their power. By the innovations of 1854 an important change was effected in the vacoof, or
church property. The church had hitherto held enormous possessions; and had not a check been
placed on the system, in the course of a few centuries all the lands would have belonged to
the priests. The property annexed to the mosques is held sacred by all, both high and low.
True believers, Greeks, Armenians, and Jews, alike, by a reversion of their property on failure
of male issue, transferred it to the ulemas. The decree above mentioned restricted this privilege
of the priests. The entire system will soon be abolished.

As before stated, the ulemas have charge of the schools connected with the principal mosques.
The average number of scholars in each school, in the reign of Mahmoud, was four hundred. They
were, for the most part, worthless, indolent fellows, and entirely under the control of the
ulemas, who used them as tools, and made them figure conspicuously in all tumults and revolts.
Their attempted assassination of Abdul Medjid was their death warrant. Each ulema was restricted
to four, in place of four hundred scholars. This measure caused not a little ill feeling among
those opposed to reform; but as the most successful attempt at restricting the despotic power
of the religious order, the decree was of vital importance, and gave the ulemas to understand
that the power on the throne was paramount to theirs.

The ulemas--whose functions do not differ materially from those of the old doctors of the law
among the Hebrews--have always claimed and enjoyed both magisterial and ecclesiastical authority;
and, indeed, since the Mussulman's law and religion are convertible terms, we would expect
priests to be vested with the same powers, and performing the same duties. Mohammed designed
it should be so, and as long as war was waged in the name of religion, as long as the Koran
and the sword went hand in hand together, the two professions were not incompatible; but when
Islamism had gained undisputed ascendency, there arose an obvious discrepancy between the peaceful
adoration of Allah and the settlements of disputes between man and man. Priest and jurist,
each had distinct and qualified duties to perform. Before justice can be administered properly
the religious and legal professions must be separated; the statutes must be distinct from the
Koran and Sunnah, in the obscurities of which they are at present involved. The sheik-ul-Islam
(pontifex maximus) is the head of the church and the bar; he appoints the bishops and the judges;
and in his twofold character of minister and lawyer, he is the expounder of the Koran, the
source of all laws, civil and religious; his decisions serve as precedents, and are as incontrovertible
as the Koran itself.

By the late reforms, Christian testimony is admitted in courts of justice. But this is merely
a nominal privilege; for what avails it that Christian evidence is received, if the Koran and
Sunnah are to constitute the law, and a Mussulman judge is to be the expounder? Is it not evident
that the 'true believer,' whether right or wrong, will be shielded by the strong arm of prejudice
at the expense of the Christian? The purity of Turkish justice may be understood from the following
humorous account given by Dr. Hamlin:

     'I once had a case of law with a Turkish judge. It was tried nine
     times, and each time decided against me. After the ninth trial, the
     judge sent me word that if I gave him 9,000 piastres (about $800),
     he would decide the case in my favor, for all the world knew that
     justice was on my side!'

I look, however, upon the religious toleration extended to Christians in 1854 as the most important
of all reforms; it is the keystone of the arch. Christianity has been on a gradual increase
in Turkey; and it may not be deemed extravagant to hope that when a few generations shall have
passed away, its supremacy will be acknowledged. As Constantine, finding the Christian element
predominant in the Roman empire, made the religion of Christ that of his people, so some Selim
or Abdul Medjid, urged by a power behind the throne, and more potent than the throne itself,
will substitute the Bible for the Koran!

The fall of Islamism does not imply the downfall of Turkish rule. The one is religious, the
other a civil power; the one may wane, the other rise.

The wars which brought the European powers in Turkish waters made a deep impression upon the
Turks, and convinced them that they had been rescued from annihilation by foreign arms. This
led to an important measure, viz.: the promulgation of the imperial edict of 1850, which was
translated into all the languages of the empire, and read in all the mosques and churches.
Besides securing the freedom of conscience and the equality of rights, it grants the right
of apostasy, which had hitherto been a capital offence: 'As all forms of religious worship
are and shall be freely professed in the empire, no person shall be hindered in the practice
of the religion which he professes; nor shall he in any way be annoyed in this kind: in the
matter of a man changing his religion, and joining another, no force shall be applied to him.'
The decree bore directly upon Islamism. Turks, both private and official, now discuss freely
the doctrines of the New Testament. The Bible, to-day, is widely circulated among the Turks.
About seven thousand copies are sold annually to Mohammedans, while ten years ago they would
not have been accepted as gifts. By all classes of people the Bible is purchased, read, and
made the subject of discussion. The sultan himself reads it. Discussion leads to investigation,
and investigation to the establishment of truth. This is one of the causes that have been silently
at work, destined to effect the fall of Islamism.

In all parts of the empire, the Christian element is growing stronger and stronger; the Mohammedan
weaker. Even in Asia, the chosen abode of the faithful, we find Christian cities and villages
prosperous, and Mohammedan cities falling to decay. In another century the Sublime Porte will
depend chiefly on the Christian element for its influence. To-day, the Mussulman mosque, the
pagoda of the Hindoo, the fire temple of the Parsee, the Roman and Greek churches, meet together.

The adoration and prostrations of the Turk afford an imposing sight even to the Christian.
'Praises be to God, for He is great,' resounds at sunrise and at sunset, from ship to ship
at sea, from kiosk to minaret on land.

According to the Koran, there is a paradise for all true believers. This paradise, Al Janat,
signifies a pleasure garden, from which flows a river, the river of life, whose water is clear
as crystal, cold as snow, and sweet as nectar. The believer who takes a draught shall thirst
no more. Even the oriental imagination fails to describe the glories of this paradise--its
fountains and flowers, pearls and gems, nectar and ambrosia, all in unmeasured profusion. To
crown the enchantment of the place, to each faithful Moslem is allotted seventy-two houris,
resplendent beings, free from every human defect, perpetually renewing their youth and beauty.
Such is the Mohammedan conception of the future world.

The Turks, in common with other Mohammedans, believe in angels, and in the prophets Adam, Noah,
Moses, and Jesus. One might suppose that such a belief would assist missionaries in converting
the infidel; but far from assisting, its tendency is to make more difficult the inculcation
of Christian doctrines. When asked to accept the religion of Christ, the Turk's ready answer
is: 'We believe in Jesus! we believe in him already; you know only a part of the true faith;
Mohammed has superseded Jesus.' Notwithstanding this, many Turks in Europe and Asia believe
that in a long series of years, Jesus will return to earth, reanimate their faith and ancient
valor, and with one unbroken religion, give them dominion to the end of the world. They, in
short, expect Jesus--the same Jesus whom Christians worship--in the fullness of time to accomplish
the work which their prophet only began. Christian missionaries should avail themselves of
this remarkable belief, and turn it to the spiritual advantage of those who entertain it.

     'Let the Turkish Government remain, if by her standing Islamism may
     fall! that we may carry back a purer literature to the land of
     Homer, a purer law to the land of Moses, and the Gospel of Christ
     to the land of the apostles.'

It only remains for me to say one word in regard to the now reigning sovereign. The ulemas--who
have become what the Janissaries were, the hotbed of fanaticism--in their endeavors to overthrow
the late sultan, Abdul Medjid, looked upon the present sultan as their champion. If he permits
himself to become a tool in their hands, Turkey will lose during his reign what she gained
in a century. If, on the other hand, he has the energy of Mahmoud, the humanity of Selim, and
practises the conciliatory policy of his brother, a glorious future awaits the empire.

FALSE ESTIMATIONS.

   As one, who under pay of priest or pope,
   Painteth an altar picture boldly bad,
   Yet winning worship from the common eye,
   Is less than one, who faltering day by day
   Before the untouched canvas, dreams, and feels
   An unaccomplished greatness: so is he
   Who scrapes the skies and cleaves the patient air
   For rhyming ecstasies to cheat the crowd,
   That sees not in the stiller worshipper
   The truer genius, who, in heights lone lost,
   Forgets to interpret to a lesser sense.

   O there do dwell among us minds divine,
   In which th' etherial is so subtly mixed,
   That only matter in its outward mien
   To the observer shows. Such ever live
   Unto themselves alone, in sweet still lives,
   And die by all men misinterpreted.

   Within a churchyard rise two honored urns
   O'er graves not far removed. The one records
   The 'genius of a Poet,' whose fitter fame
   Lies in the volumes which his facile pen
   Filled with the measure of redundant verse:
   Before this urn the oft frequented sod
   Is flattened with the tread of pensive feet.
   The other simply bears the name and age
   Of one who was 'a Merchant,' and bequeathed
   A fair estate with numerous charities:
   Before this urn the grass grows rank and green.

   I knew them both in life, and thus to me
   They measured in their lives their effigies:
   He who the pen did wield with facile power,
   Created what he wrote, and to the ear
   With tact, not inspiration, wrought the sounds
   To careful cadence; but the heart was cold
   As the chill marble where the sculptor traced
   Curious conceits of fancy. Let him pass,
   His name not undervalued, for his fame
   Shall in maturer ages lie as still
   As doth his neighbor's now.

                              Turn we to him.
   He was a man to whom the general eye
   Bent with the confidence of daily trust
   In things of daily use: a man 'of means,
   --Sagacious, honest, plodding, punctual,--
   Revolving in the rank of those whose shields
   Bear bags of argent on a field of gold,
   His life, to most men, was what most men's are,--
   Unceasing calculation and keen thrift;
   Unvarying as the ever-plying loom,
   Which, moving in same limits day by day,
   Weaves mesh on mesh, in tireless gain of goods.
   But I, that knew him better than the herd,
   Yet saw him less, knew that in him which lives
   Still gracious and still plentiful to me
   Now he hath passed away from me and them.
   This man, whose talk on busy marts to men
   Teemed with the current coin of thrifty trade,
   --Exchanges, credits, money rates, and all,--
   Hath stood with me upon a silent hill,
   When the last flush of the dissolving day
   Fainted before the moonlight, and, as 'twere
   Unconscious of my listening, uttered there
   The comprehensions of a soul true poised
   With elemental beauty, giving tongue
   Unto the dumbness of the blissful air.
   So have I seen him, too, within his home,
   When, newspaper on knee, his earnest gaze
   Seemed scanning issues from the money list;
   But comments came not, till my curious eye
   Led out his meditation into words,
   Thought-winding upward into sphery light,
   So utterly unearthly and sublime,
   That all the man of fact fled out of sense,
   And visual refinement filled the space.
   Oft hath he told me, nothing was so blind
   As the far-seeing wisdom of the world,
   And none within it knew him, save himself,
   And that so scantily, that but for faith
   In a redeeming knowledge yet to come,
   He would lie down and let his weakness die
   In self-reclaiming dust.

                           After his death,
   I searched his papers, vainly, for a scrap
   Whereon some dropped memento might record
   His inner nature; but he nothing left--
   Nothing of that deep life whose wondrous light
   Guided him onward through the realms of sense,
   And in a world of practical self-need
   Sustained him with a glory unexpressed.

   And thus it is that round the Poet's urn,
   The sod is beaten down with pensive feet:
   And thus it is that where the Merchant lies,
   The grass, untrodden, groweth rank and green.

THE BLUE HANDKERCHIEF.

I had passed my last examinations, and had received my diploma authorizing me to practise medicine,
and I still lingered in the vicinity of Edinburgh, partly because my money was nearly exhausted,
and partly from the very natural aversion I felt from quitting a place where three very happy
and useful years had been spent. After waiting many weeks--for the communication between the
opposite shores of the Atlantic were not then so rapid as now--I received a large packet of
letters from 'home,' all of them filled with congratulations on my success, and among them
were letters from my dear father and a beloved uncle, at whose instance (he was himself a physician)
my father had sent me abroad to complete my medical education. My father's letter was even
more affectionate than usual, for he was highly gratified with my success, and he counselled
me to take advantage of the peace secured by the battle of Waterloo to visit the continent,
which for many years (with the exception of a brief period) had been closed to all persons
from Great Britain; he enclosed me a draft on a London banker for a thousand pounds. My uncle's
letter was scarcely less affectionate; my Latin thesis (I had sent my father and him a copy)
had especially pleased him; and after urging me to take advantage of my father's kindness,
he added that he had placed a thousand pounds at my disposition, with the same London banker
on whom my draft was drawn. A letter of introduction to a French family was enclosed in the
letter, and he engaged me to visit them, for they had been his guests for a long time when
the first Revolution caused them to fly France, and they were under other obligations to him;
which I afterward learned from themselves was a pecuniary favor more than once renewed during
their residence with him. Ten thousand dollars was a good deal of money to be placed at the
disposition of a young man as his pocket money for eighteen months, even after a large deduction
had been made from it for a library and professional instruments.

Before I quitted Edinburgh, I received a letter from the gentleman to whom my uncle had given
me an introduction; he acquainted me that my uncle had informed him that I was about visiting
France, and that he had taken the liberty of introducing me to him. The Marquis de ---- (such
was his title--his name I omit for obvious reasons) expressed with great warmth his delight
at having it in his power to exhibit the gratitude he felt to my uncle, and urged me with the
most pressing terms to come at once to his home, and pass away there at least so much time
as might accustom me to the spoken French language (I could easily read it), that my visit
to Paris might be more profitable and agreeable--and it should be both, he was so good as to
say, at least as far as it depended on himself and his friends. I wrote him by the return mail
to thank him for his kindness, and to inform him that I should at once set out for his hospitable
home. I shall never forget the six months I passed away in the Chateau de Bardy: the happiness
of those days was checkered only by my departure and by the incident I shall presently relate.
And even after I quitted that noble mansion, the kindness of its inmates still watched over
me, and opened homes to me even in that great Maelstrom of life--Paris.

It was toward the end of the month of October--the most delightful month of the seasons in
France--as I was returning on foot from Orleans to the Chateau de Bardy, from a rather prolonged
pedestrian exploration in that interesting neighborhood, where I had accurately examined all
of the curiosities, thanks to an ample memoir of my noble host (in those days 'Handbooks' were
unknown, and Murray was busy publishing Byron and Moore), when I thought I caught a glimpse
of some soldiers. I was not mistaken: on the road before me a Prussian regiment was marching.
I quickened my pace to hear the military music, for I was extremely partial to it; but the
band ceased playing, and no sound was heard except an occasional roll of the kettle-drum at
long intervals to mark the uniform step of the soldiers. After following them for a half hour,
I saw the regiment enter a small plain, surrounded by a fir grove. I asked a captain, whose
acquaintance I had made, if his men were about to be drilled.

'No,' said he, 'they are about to try, and perhaps to shoot, a soldier of my company for having
stolen something from the house where he was billeted.'

'What,' said I, 'are they going to try, condemn, and execute him, all in the same moment?'

'Yes,' said he, 'those are the provisions of the capitulation.'

This word 'capitulation' was to him an unanswerable argument, as if everything had been provided
for in the capitulation, the crime and the punishment, justice and humanity.

