Asters are easily transplanted and should never be allowed to become cramped for room, or to
be grown in the shade of other plants. If carefully done, an Aster in almost full bloom can
be taken up and replanted without injuring it in the least. So there is no excuse for letting
them be crowded in either seed-box or seed-bed.

[Sidenote: Preparing an Aster Bed]

There is no use trying to get good Asters from plants in poor ground. They are gross feeders.
They dislike sandy soil the most of all. Clay ground is better for them than sand, and loamy
soil the best of all. If the soil is sandy, plant Asters so as to leave a little depression
around each plant. The water will thus sink about them and more moisture be retained. Sour,
undrained soils where the water stands should be raised a little above the level of the lawn,
if for Asters, so that excess of water may drain off. They like moisture but not stagnant water.
Whatever the character of the ground, spade it deep so that it may be mellow, and make it very
rich. If the ground is to be spaded a foot deep, a 3-inch layer of rotted manure is about right
to dig in. Rotted manure does not mean fresh or lumpy manure. It means that the fertilizing
element shall have been rotted until ready to drop to pieces. Stable manure is too fiery. Cow
manure over a year old is best. Many expert Aster growers scatter an inch of unleached hardwood
ashes over the bed before it is broken up and spade it in with the manure. They claim it both
suits the Aster and helps to keep off root-lice.

It is usual to plant tall or half dwarf varieties in the center of the beds, and use some of
the dwarf Asters for an outside row or border. The tall kinds should stand 10 to 12 inches
apart in the row. The dwarf ones about 8 inches apart. Asters make a sightly bed because of
the uniform height of each class and because of their blooming at the same time.

[Sidenote: Mulching and Watering]

Hot dry soil quickly spoils Asters. About July mulch them well.

Two inches of coarse manure spread out well over their roots is the best mulch of all, as every
rain washes nutrition from it down to the roots below. Chip dirt, pine needles, or grass clippings
will do, or anything else that is light, yet will let the rains or waterings leach through.
No one who has not actually tried it can know of the help a mulch really is to Asters. I doubt
whether first-class flowers can be obtained in dry, windy countries, or in hot, sun-scorched
valleys without its aid. Asters love the sun, nevertheless unless their feet are kept cool
and moist they inevitably burn and wilt. A mulch keeps the ground cool, and it keeps it moist also.

I know of Asters that gained the prizes at county fairs that were regularly soaked once a week
with the suds from the weekly washing. In most climates a thorough drenching of the ground
once a week will promote a luxuriant growth of the plants. There is nothing gained by watering
in dry weather unless the ground is mulched. Without this protection the ground will bake as
hard as a brick and the plants suffer more than if no water had been given. In some sections
hot dry winds prevail through August and September. This is most trying to Asters. If there
is a tank, or system of water works, a good sprinkling, not only to the roots but of the foliage
as well, will revive them wonderfully. Use the hose about sunset. By morning the plants will
be entirely revived.

[Sidenote: Insect Foes of Asters]

The red spider and aphis have no special fondness for the Aster. They get after it when it
comes in their way, as they do anything else. But the Aster has two implacable enemies that
by their ravages have done more to discourage people from growing these plants than all other
causes combined. These two foes are blister beetles and root lice.

RED SPIDER bothers in hot dry weather. Water is their foe. When the familiar thin, half-dying
foliage appears, grey on the under-side and showing a few fine webs underneath, there is no
mistaking the signs. It is the red spider. If a hose is used in the garden, turn the water
on under a full head, directing it to the under-side of the leaves where the invisible pests
have their colonies. Never mind if it does bend the plants by the force of the stream. They
can be straightened afterwards. Play up and down, under and all around. If well done, and the
deed repeated a couple of days after, they will have been killed. If no hose is available,
use a sprinkler, dashing the water on with all the force possible.

APHIS is the common plant louse. Some use tobacco stems as a mulch about Asters instead of
manure. Tobacco factories and dealers in florist's supplies sell these at low prices, as it
is the refuse material left after manufacturing tobacco for smoking and chewing. Where these
can be obtained it is a sure preventative not only against aphis but almost any other insect.

Other remedies for aphis are spraying with a hard stream of water. Two or three thorough applications
will finish them. Kerosene emulsion will kill them. So will insect powder if it has not become
stale, and if used on a still, calm day when there is no air stirring to revive its suffocated
victims.

THE BLISTER BEETLE or aster beetle comes along when the plants are in bloom or in bud. They
are half to three-quarters of an inch long, black with grey stripes down their back. Oh! how
they devour all before them! Out of the unknown they come, hordes of them. They tarry but two
or three days, and leave but bare stalks behind them, every bed, every flower, and every leaf
eaten off.

The remedy is to fight them.

When the lytta, alias blister beetle, arrives, prepare to give a warm welcome to him and all
of his kind. There are several methods of doing this. Any of them must be repeated two or three
times a day, for there seem to be successive waves of the beetles. In a few days the danger
is past.

My own method is to get a helper, and, taking one plant at a time, knock the beetles off and
kill them with a stick. It is a joy to look upon the heaps of slain when all is done. Whenever
the plant upon which it is is jarred in the slightest, this beetle falls to the ground exactly
as though it were dead. Only for a second, however, then it runs for dear life. That is why
it takes more than one person, for it's no child's play to kill a score of scampering bugs
in a quarter of a minute.

My other half's way is to get a fresh supply of insect powder (Dalmation, Persian, Bubach,
etc., whatever name it may be sold under) and squirt it thickly over the bugs by the use of
one of those 10-cent powder guns that all druggists keep. It is effective if the insect powder
is fresh.

Other remedies are to put netting over the bed; to spray the plants with poisoned water, made
by stirring 1 teaspoonful of Paris green into 2 gallons of water; and to use kerosene emulsion.
The last is made after this formula: 1 tablespoonful of kerosene beaten up with half a cupful
of milk. Dilute with 2 gallons of water.

Do not forget that any remedy must be used two or three times a day while the raid is on.

ROOT-LICE, BLUE APHIS, etc., is one of the most common enemies of the Aster. When the plants
are almost at their best the tops turn a peculiar sickly green, or they wilt, or become brown.
They die quickly unless something is at once done. Pull one up and the roots are found alive
with a little insect that looks like a plant louse. Insecticides poured on the soil rarely
kill the pests. A bed that has been ashed, or had a mulching of tobacco stems, as has already
been advised, will have escaped.

Where the root lice have already commenced, Rexford recommends drawing the dirt away until
the roots are exposed, then sifting tobacco dust thickly over them replacing the soil afterwards.
Others recommend flooding the bed with kerosene emulsion in the same way. While some have success,
others claim failure by either of these methods. Here is a way of dealing with root lice, however,
that is always sure.

Heat a lot of water. Then pull up every affected plant, shake the dirt off their roots, and
dip them quickly into scalding water. Leave them in but a second, but dip their roots two or
three times to make sure every bug gets its dose. Pour boiling water into the ground where
the Asters had been. That settles the fate of every root-louse in the ground. As soon as the
ground has cooled a little, plant the Asters back, stake them so as to hold them up, and shade
lightly for a day or two.

Will it not kill the plants? No, it will not injure them. Of course the plants should have
been taken up very carefully so as not to break off the roots. The Aster will stand more in
the way of lifting than any other plant I know. Mature plants may be washed out by the roots
in a severe storm, but if promptly planted again will be all right in a day or two after. I
know a lady who had to move some distance in August. She had a fine bed of Asters. She made
the ground soaking wet, then took them every one up, putting them as close as they would stand
in ordinary soap boxes. They never minded the transfer in the least, and bloomed so handsomely
in their boxes as to call forth many compliments. I give these instances to convince doubting
Thomases that pulling up Asters and scalding the root-lice on them is not so desperate a remedy
as it sounds. And it is a sure remedy.

[Sidenote: Other Cultural Rules]

Until it is time to mulch Asters, stir the ground, or hoe the bed once a week. In some climates,
particularly in warm ones, tall Asters sometimes take on a tall, thin growth. These leggy plants
are not beautiful, nor do they bear many flowers. Whenever plants show a disposition to run
up this way, pinch out the tops. Repeat the pinching two or three times if necessary, until
a disposition to branch shows itself.

The tall sorts are the better for a support. Otherwise hard winds uproot them. Stakes should
be used that when driven will be about two-thirds the height of the plants. Tie with soft string,
with a sort of a slip-knot so that a half dozen of the main branches have a band supporting
them, yet are not drawn up so hard and tight as to cut into the branch.

If a display of Asters are wanted for a flower show make the ground as wet as mud. Then lift
each plant with a spade or mattock slowly and skillfully. The roots, dirt and all, will come
up in a solid mass. Pot at once, before any of the earth is shaken off. They will not wither
in the least if kept out of direct sunshine for a few days. If enormous blooms are wanted,
disbud, leaving but one bud to each tip. Trim off the small side branches also, to throw the
strength of the plant into these chosen blooms. Most people prefer more flowers and less size.

There are generally a few promising late Asters that are not yet in bloom when frosts come.
Lift these in the same careful manner for the house. They do not do well in hot rooms. In cool
rooms, not above 60 to 65 degrees by day, they thrive. They like some sunshine, but will get
along with little of it if they have good light beside. They do finely in halls and bedrooms
where the temperature is almost to the frost line at night, and no fire heat at all during
the day. An Aster will not bloom all winter. Its period of bloom is quite long enough, however,
to make it a welcome guest in the plant window, and when through blooming it can be thrown away.

THE ASTER AS A CUT FLOWER

An Aster is at its very best as a cut flower, and remains in good condition for two weeks.
It comes in the late summer season before Chrysanthemums are ready and after Lilies are gone.
It is a time of dearth of really fine flowers. Florists are growing it more and more for their
sales, and to use in decorations for August and September weddings and parties. White Asters
are much used for funeral wreaths also.

Amateurs cannot make up elaborate floral pieces like florists, and it is not wise to attempt
it. But it is well enough for us all to remember that a simple spray of white Asters in a setting
of green Ferns, or of lace-like Asparagus plumosus, is a gift of remembrance that no loving
hand need be ashamed of placing on the coffin of a friend. A loose, careless nosegay of Asters,
bright with its pretty pinks and blues, and a deep crimson one or two to bear its white companions
company, will cheer up a sick friend. Always remember the touch of color in flowers for the
sick. They need cheer and brightness, and sunny flowers give them both.

The taller Asters are fine to cut for vases and for pulpit bouquets, if the longest stems are
chosen. Use plenty of pretty greenery, and arrange the flowers so that each stands out airily
by itself, not wedged between its neighbors. Asters can be over-crowded in a bouquet until
heavy and clumsy looking. It is the one fault to avoid. The remedy is to use more foliage with
them, and to put fewer flowers in the bouquet. Enough is better than a surplus in arranging
cut-flowers.

LEADING VARIETIES OF ASTERS

NEW ROSE. This has been a standard sort for many years. Nearly or quite 2 feet in height. Handsome
flowers of regular form, imbricated like a rose. Many shades.

TRUFFAUT'S PÆONY-FLOWERED. For more than a generation this has been a standard. It is sometimes
shown at exhibitions in a fourth of a hundred distinct shades. It is tall, with a profusion
of very large globular flowers. An old but showy variety.

VICTORIA. Esteemed by many the very best Asters in existence. Fine for pots, bedding or flower
shows. Flowers are three or four inches across, or even larger, and these are perfection as
to form. There are over a score of shades, among them colors as rare and as lovely as the cloud
tints of sunrise.

COCARDEAU OR CROWN is another old but not superseded sort. The center of the flower is of small
quilled petals, pure white in color. This center is surrounded by a wide ring of flat ray petals
of bright color. 18 inches tall. Pretty, odd and showy, but by no means as superb a flower
as some of the others.

QUILLED GERMAN. Another oddity, of about equal value with the Crown Asters. 2 feet high and
branching. The flowers are quilled like those of some Dahlias.

DWARF BOUQUET. One of the smallest of all. Only 6 to 8 inches tall, very uniform, each a pyramid
of pretty flowers. About a dozen colors are in this strain. Used for edging.

SHAKESPEARE. A fine sort for borders. About 6 inches tall, a solid mass of large globular flowers
from top to bottom. There are several colors.

SNOWBALL. 10 to 12 inches high, of a symmetrical habit and bearing exquisitely beautiful flowers
of the large Chrysanthemum type. The color is a pure white.

VICK'S BRANCHING ASTERS. The Vicks have always been famous for their Asters, and this is the
triumph of their skill. These grow the tallest of all Asters, and require more than ordinary
space because of their wide branching habit. Largely grown by florists. It is a late variety,
and its magnificent, large and informal flowers are often mistaken for the finest Japanese
Chrysanthemums. The flowers are of extraordinary size and are long-stemmed. It comes in snowy-white,
pink, lavender, crimson, and purple shades. Pure White is esteemed the finest of the lot, with
Daybreak, a lovely sea-shell pink, as a close second. Daybreak is earlier than the type.

JAPANESE. Known also as the Ostrich Plume Asters, a name which exactly describes them. About
15 inches tall. The curled flowers are of enormous size, 5 to 6 inches across. About 10 colors,
some of them most unusual ones.

GIANT SILVER-TIPPED. These are of dwarf habit, but have blossoms of the largest size. These
beautiful flowers, whatever their color, are tipped silvery white. An exceptional good pot variety.

SEMPLE'S MARVEL. This is another favorite with professional growers. They are 20 inches to
2 feet tall, and of branching habit. This is rather a late Aster. The flowers are of much substance,
and are perfect in form and rich in color.

COMET. The best known of the curly Chrysanthemum-flowered type. There are two or three strains
of this, varying a little as to habit. They range from 14 inches to 2 feet in height, and bear
those large, loose, feathered flowers that find so many admirers. The broad outer petals are
reflexed. The inner petals are shorter and curve and curl toward the center. These grand flowers
come in several beautiful shades.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WINTER WOODS

  How patiently they wait--the bare brown trees
      Through winter's sullen gloom,
  With arms outspread as if in suppliance
      Of vanished leaf and bloom!

  Till Nature's voice shall sound its clarion call
    Waking the earth from sleep,
  These monarchs shorn of all their treasure stand
    In silence long and deep.

  O learn a lesson from the winter woods!
    Hope on O troubled heart!
  In patience wait! The blessing thou dost need
    God will at last impart!

  Alice Jean Cleator, Ohio.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LIVE OAK

(In the South)

  On the gray outside of the year
    Fluttered its leaves of cheer;
    They reached to my winter window
  And I thought that spring was here.
  They reached out mistily
  When dawn was on the tree,
    But through the rainy mornings
  How bright they gleamed and clear.

  When other trees are bare
  Oak banners glad the air,
    And through the Southern summer
  Its branches great and fair.
  In all their splendid strength,
  To all their living length,
    Emparadise in shadow
  The meadows everywhere.

  Ethelwyn Witherald, Canada.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INFORMATION BOX

What Our Readers Want to Know

In this department Mrs. Lora S. La Mance will answer the inquiries of those asking information
about plants, their culture, etc. The subject of inquiry will be touched upon in a general
way, instead of being made a personal matter, in order that the information conveyed may be
useful and interesting to the greatest number. We will forward to Mrs. La Mance for answering
such inquiries as our readers may send in.--Editor

NOTICE. Correspondents will please observe these rules: Give with every letter your name, town
and state. They will not be published. If you wish an immediate or personal answer, enclose
stamp for reply. Do not ask for greenhouse plans. The space cannot be given. In reporting a
failure with anything, tell what treatment you have given it.

AGAPANTHUS. In early housekeeping days, when as yet I was ignorant of the A B C's of floriculture.
I bought an Agapanthus. No pains were taken with it, but it grew right along and blossomed
freely. I was much astonished afterwards to learn that the Agapanthus is considered an obstinate
plant that can neither be coaxed nor driven to bloom. Poor Agapanthus! It has been unjustly
censured. Be liberal with it in the way of providing a rich potting soil, and giving plenty
of water while it is growing. With autumn, let it have a taste of adversity. Put the pot on
a back shelf. Keep the earth in the pot decidedly on the dry side, giving plenty of water when
you do water, but making the intervals between long enough for the soil to dry out well. The
plant can even be placed in the cellar to winter, provided this absolute rest is not unduly
prolonged. After three months of inaction give light, warmth and moisture. Agapanthus will
at once respond, and flowers usually follow.

TRAINING A RUBBER PLANT. A tall, straight stemmed Rubber tree finds more admirers than branched
specimens, which are more squat in shape. Those who like the bush form best can make their
Rubber Plants branch at any desired height by cutting off the end of the stem. The part cut
away may he rooted in heat in damp sand. The best time to cut them is in late winter, just
before the time for spring growth. Branches will soon be sent out after the top of the main
stem has been cut away.

MOLES. A lady piquantly relates her trials with an army of moles that she cannot "catch, kill,
or drive away," although she has tried everything she has ever heard of. It is a bad case when
mole traps will not catch, or corn soaked in Fowler's solution of arsenic and dropped along
their runways will not finish them. In this case I can only refer her to other said-to-be cures
that other people have tried and have faith in. A dozen witnesses testify that the seeds of
Ricinus (Castor Bean,) dropped here and there in their tunnels will make them leave. A Connecticut
lady says a sure remedy is to drop handfuls of salt here and there in their runways. Others
put ball potash or concentrated lye in their runs but that is cruel, for it burns wherever
it touches. Some use sawdust soaked in tar, or with a stick punch holes here and there along
their tunnels and drop in each hole a small quantity of kerosene (coal oil). These two last
substances will kill choice plants if used close to their roots, so use caution. An ingenious
soul, rightly conceiving that the mole is highly sensitive to smells made a number of stiff
pasteboard tubes and put in the center of each a stinking moth-ball. Buried in the runways
there was a dearth of moles directly. I heartily approve of the mole's judgment in leaving
moth-ball-scented premises. I have felt like it myself.

TROUBLE WITH LILIUM CANDIDUM. Some of our friends have had trouble with Lilium Candidum. They
purchased fine, large bulbs, potted them, and had only leaves for their pains. That was because
they were procured too late. They are not nearly so tractable as Lilium Harrisii. It is their
natural disposition to start to growing early in autumn. If kept dormant beyond this period
their flower-buds blast. Get them if possible in August or the first half of September. There
is no difficulty in getting them to blossom then.

BADLY SHAPED PLANTS. Every little while someone asks what to do with a one-sided or badly shaped
pot plant. Plants, and particularly pot shrubs, ought never to be allowed to get in bad shape.
It is an easy enough matter to correct a bad or awkward tendency at the first. It is a difficult
matter to remedy it later. When a plant begins to grows coxcomby, or develops a long, switchy
growth, or twists about in an ugly crook, begin at once to overcome it. One-sidedness is usually
arrested by turning that side away from the light. A crooked, knotted limb can be straightened
by tying to a stout support or trellis, tying it every two or three inches to take the kinks
out. Long, leggy, or whip-like shoots need the ends pinched off. If done at an early stage
no sap will waste. It is old wood that bleeds when the knife is put into it. I always hesitate
to advise re-shaping an old specimen if it is so contorted that over half of the old wood must
be cut away. It is a great shock to a growing plant to lose half or more of its wood. It sometimes
kills it, particularly if injudiciously watered. If severe cutting is required do it while
the pot shrubbery is nearest at rest, and a little before renewed growth may be expected again.
Usually this is about the close of mid-winter. Such shrubs as Rubber Plants, that bleed profusely,
should have grafting wax or paint daubed on the end of cut branches. If nothing better is at
hand paste a jacket of clay over the cut end until the wound can heal. Water with much moderation
until new growth appears.

SPOTTED CALLA FROM SEED. Spotted Callas are easily grown from seed if it is sown as soon as
ripe. Plant out in garden rows like dwarf peas, and hoe them and keep weeds down. After frost
dig the little tubers up and keep in dry sand in the cellar. Plant out in the garden the next
year. Some will bloom the second season, the rest will require another year.

SOIL FOR VARIEGATED SHRUBS. Do not manure the ground for golden or variegated leaved shrubs.
The color is not as clear where fertilizers are used. Very rich ground means a quick, lush
growth. Green is the normal color of leaf vegetation. Any departure from this rule is an abnormal
one. Whatever imparts vigor to a plant tends to make it throw off its acquired markings and
revert to its original stage. Abundant plant food supplies more chlorophyll or green coloring
matter to the sap also.

ABOUT BROAD-LEAVED EVERGREENS IN WINTER. A lady asks, "Is it the summer sun that is harmful
to Rhododendrons, Andromedas and Mahonias, or is it the winter sun they should be protected
from?" It is the winter sun. The reason broad-leaved evergreens are such a hard class to bring
through the winter in good condition is because the sun shines upon their foliage while it
is frozen, blistering, and searing it. It is not the winter's cold but the winter's sun that
does the mischief. Plant all such evergreens on a north slope, or at the north side of a building
where they are protected from a glare of sunshine on their frozen wood and leaves.

SNAILS AND SLUGS. Where they are numerous enough to do injury, get after them. I believe a
hand to hand killing is the best remedy for all such pests. They are sluggish and cannot run
away from one. They usually take a siesta during the heat of the day under Pansies or similar
low matted plants. Some trap them by placing slices of cabbage or raw potato about. Others
kill all the slugs in a bed, then make a ring of salt all about it to keep them out. Lime dust
powdered over the plants helps to keep them away.

WORMS BORING INTO PLANTS. A couple of cases are reported of worms boring into the stalks of
Asters, Dianthus and Carnations. Of course the tops die, and the damage is great. There is
no insecticide that can be used against these canny worms which snugly hide themselves in the
plant stalks where not a drop of liquor can reach them. The only remedy is to keep a sharp
outlook for affected plants, cutting away each worm-infested top and burning it. This kills
the worm and cuts off future crops of worms. It seems a hard method of ridding the plants of
their enemies. However, the plants branch out again and develop a later crop of flowers.

HOW ANNUALS RUN OUT. "Last year I purchased the very best grade of seeds, and my flowers were
lovely. I saved from these flowers, expecting a similar treat this year. But my Pansies, Carnations
and Petunias are nothing near as large or as finely marked as they were last year, and the
last two flowers are all single, not a double one in the lot. What is the cause of this?"

Deterioration in the quality of bloom is what our mothers used to call the "running out" of
plants. There is no mystery about it. It is confined to those favorite flowers that have been
highly bred and hybridized. Everyone knows highly bred stock, be it animal or vegetable, will
not stand roughing it. If the flower grower would use the nerve of the seed-grower and pull
up every inferior plant or poor flowered one; if she would keep the ground as clean as a market
garden; if she would allow only the finest flowers to go to seed, cutting the others off as
they fade, she would have good seed for next year's flowers. Petunias are artificially hybridized
to get a double strain of seed, and this the amateur cannot well do. It pays most of us better
to buy Pansy, Petunia, Carnation and Ten Weeks Stocks seed than to try to save it ourselves.

FAILURE OF PEONIES TO BLOOM. Everyone says the Peony will endure anything, heat, cold, rain
or dry weather or any kind of soil. It is true the plant is tenacious of life. It is just as
true that it knows when it is not well treated. It evens up matters many times by refusing
to bloom. Any one of the following reasons may cause it to be barren of bloom. (1) Poor, hard
ground. (2) Deep shade, as when grown under evergreens or behind thick shrubbery. (3) Spring
planting in hot climates, or (4) clumps allowed to get too dry in droughty summers.

BRUGMANSIA. I admire this plant when in bloom. Its magnificent ivory trumpets are a grand sight.
It is a fine thing for piazza decoration during summer, and may be grown in a greenhouse or
warm plant room in winter. It is not, however, suitable for ordinary window culture. It needs
good care and freedom from dust, and moreover chills easily. If placed in the cellar in November
it will winter there safely. Bring up as early as possible in the spring, water with moderation
until new shoots start from the root, then give abundance of water.

EUCHARIS. This is a beautiful flower worth taking a little pains to grow. It is more often
seen in greenhouse than in a window, as it is easier in the former to secure a warm, moist,
even temperature. Shortly after New Year Eucharis grow very fast. Keep them warm and moist
until through flowering when they can be kept ten to fifteen degrees cooler and watered less
freely. This gives them the needed semi-rest to enable them to get ready for bloom again. In
summer they need plenty of water again. When fall comes keep them pretty dry for the next three
months, supplying only enough water to keep them from losing their leaves. Pot them in loam
and sand, with a small quantity of old crumbled manure and leaf loam.

A PLAGUE OF ANTS. A correspondent has suffered for years from annual raids of ants that literally
swarm over everything and everywhere. "Last year," says this lady, "they killed ever so many
plants, from Pansies to trees. All of our outdoor flowers were almost ruined by them. I have
tried molasses and Paris green, but they only increase in numbers. They are everywhere, but
I cannot find their holes or nest."

There is no use trying to depend on killing all these ants after they have taken possession.
A bushel of pyrethrum powder would not pepper them all or a hogshead of kerosene emulsion last
long enough to get them all. They must be killed at the fountain head, in their nesting places.
A few years ago a certain set of our pear trees had their blossoms ruined year after year by
hordes of ants. We could not kill them off, for there were always new ones to take their places.
One day we found their nest, a very large one, but entirely underground. A speedy and therefore
merciful death was decreed for them. Big pot, little pot, kettle and boiler were filled with
water which was brought to the boiling point. We used it, every day, on that ant nest. That
was 15 years ago, and there has been no recurrence of the trouble.

HOLY THISTLE. Some one asks about a curious plant of which no one knows the name. It blooms
quickly from seed, making a plant several feet tall. It has long and wide leaves, waved along
the margins, and very spiny. Along each vein is a wide milk-white band or mottling. The flowers
are like a purple thistle. Strange how the wheels of time go round. This new (?) plant is so
very old that hundreds of years ago it was a common garden ornament. It is Carduus Maritima,
a near relative of the common thistle. Everyone notices it because of its odd milky splashes,
and it every now and then enjoys a brief popularity again. Our superstitious forefathers believed
that a drop of the Virgin Mary's milk fell on its leaves, which ever after bore milk-white
markings because of it. The old names for it were Milk Thistle and Holy Thistle. The peasantry
used to eat its tops as greens, and cook the roots in stews. Like all thistles this will become
a weed if not kept down with a firm hand.

AN IMPOSSIBILITY. A lady asks us to give a list of the six best Roses. "I acknowledged to stand
at the head of the Rose kind." It can't be done as long as the old adage holds true of

  "Many men of many kinds,
  Many men of many minds."

A correspondent wants a companion Rose to a Crimson Rambler, which she enthusiastically declares
is the grandest Rose in the world. Side by side with her letter is one from an artist. "I don't
like Ramblers," writes he. "An artistic Rose to my mind is like a jewel in a right setting.
Too many jewels denote vulgarity." Every class of Rose has its enthusiastic devotees. The best
Hybrid Teas come nearer combining all merits of a Rose, and nearer pleasing all standards of
taste than any other; yet any florist will tell you that they are by no means the Roses most
freely purchased. In other words, no one Rose suits all.

  Lora S. La Mance, Mo.

       *       *       *       *       *

CORRESPONDENCE

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

This department is open to any of our subscribers who may have anything to say that will be
of general interest and usefulness. Questions may be asked or answered

ARKANSAS

Editor Mayflower:

I must tell you of an experience I had in transplanting a Dahlia, which was in bloom, the last
day of July. Driving out one warm morning I saw a family moving out of a house. Seeing a clump
of beautiful Dahlias I asked for one. The lady said she did not think I could do anything with
it, but I knew I could try. She took it up with an old tuber attached and two young ones. I
put it in a well protected place where it was cool and kept it well watered. It grew and continued
to bloom. When taken up in the fall there were three tubers. That was two years ago. I still
have some of it now.--Mrs. Philetus Wakefield.

CAROLINA, NORTH AND SOUTH

Editor Mayflower:

When the world looks as if it were at the mercy of the wind and cold in winter. Sad indeed
would be these hopeless days only we know that always, and always, it will be spring again.
While the flowers are asleep under their blanket of snow we have a period for rest and reflection,
and by thinking over the mistakes in the past we may improve. Of all times of the year spring
is the season when everything seems to require attention at the same time. House-cleaning,
sewing and gardening crowd upon us, when the bright days come, and one of the three is sure
to be neglected by the busy women if plans are not made for each work beforehand. Let me beg
all our flower-loving women not to deny themselves the comfort, rest and happiness that flowers
alone will bring them throughout the long summer days because they feel the time cannot be
spared to attend to the planting in early spring. What if the house is left a little disordered
while one works in the garden? It can be put to rights after the precious roots and seeds have
been placed under ground to begin their work of beauty. We must all sew I suppose, but let
us wear the last year shirt waists awhile, and take the time to plant flowers in the garden
or window boxes, to cheer us when we are compelled to run the machine. By leaving off some
of the trimmings, or doing

       *       *       *       *       *

  "HE THAT WORKS EASILY, WORKS
  SUCCESSFULLY." CLEAN HOUSE WITH

  SAPOLIO

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WARBLER

JOHN LEWIS CHILDS, EDITOR

With 1905 =The Warbler= begins a new series which will contain many superb Colored Plates of
rare eggs such as Kirtland and Olive Warbler, Carolina Paroquot, Clark's Crow, Ipswich and
Rufous Crowned Sparrow, Yellow and Black Rail, Calaveras Warbler, etc. Also splendid illustrations
of Birds and Nests, and leading articles by well known authorities.

Published Quarterly, 32 Pages & Cover

SUBSCRIPTION PRICE $1.00 PER YEAR. SINGLE COPIES 30c

Eggs of Kirtland Warbler will be figured in first issue (Jan. or Feb.) of the new series.

  ADDRESS
  THE WARBLER
  FLORAL PARK, N. Y.

without some things altogether, the money will be forthcoming to purchase the plants we long
for. Are they not worth the sacrifice?--Prudence Plain, So. Car.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONNECTICUT

  Editor Mayflower:

A friend of mine has a Winter Gem Rose, received as a premium with THE MAYFLOWER three or four
years ago. This is put in the garden in summer, where it grows and blooms all summer. It is
potted, cut back and taken in the house through the winter. It soon grows new branches and
blooms nicely here. It is a favorite with the whole family. This same friend has the Bouquet
Petunias, also a premium with THE MAYFLOWER. She has kept the old plant summer and winter,
until this last summer it did not seem to do as well so she took slips. I planted mine in a
flower-bed. They come up each year, some are mixed with some other kinds, but last summer there
were some the same as the original.--L. N. F.

CALIFORNIA

  Editor Mayflower:

The Blue Palm is one of the very pretty varieties planted upon the choicest lawns. Its correct
name is Erythea Armata, and it is a native of Lower California, that part of the country so
little known. In the young plants, the blue "bloom" is very striking, and if the Palm is grown
in the sun in sandy soil the "bloom" will always remain, but a shaded position and heavy soil
destroys that beautiful color. It grows to about forty feet in its wild state, but does nothing
like that in Southern California. It makes however a beautiful growth and adds to the beauty
of a lawn, whether alone or arranged with other varieties.--Georgina S. Townsend, So. Cal.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Reliable Heart Cure.

Alice A. Wetmore, Box 67, Norwich, Conn., says if any sufferer from Heart Disease will write
her she will without charge direct them to the perfect home cure she used.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Household Necessity

The Kitchen Cabinet advertised on page 19 of this paper should be called the Woman's Friend.
It is only 46 inches in length, 27 inches in width and 61 inches in height, but in this compact
space may be stored 50 lbs. of flour, 50 lbs. of meal, 50 lbs. of sugar, with drawers and shelves
for spices, knives, forks, spoons, pans, etc., etc., in fact a woman may do all her baking
and scarcely move out of her tracks.

       *       *       *       *       *

This Boy won a $25.00 Prize selling THE SATURDAY EVENING POST YOU can do the same

This is the "Champion Boy" of the State of Washington. His name is Harry Ireland. The smile
on his face is due to the fact that he had in his pocket a check for $25 from THE SATURDAY
EVENING POST.

This $25 is in addition to the regular commission he receives week after week for selling THE POST.

Harry is a hustler. The long strip of paper he holds in his hand is covered with closely written
signatures of people who have instructed him to deliver THE POST for four consecutive weeks.

He persuaded several prominent business men to sign at the top of the sheet and their names
influenced others to sign until the list became longer than he is tall.

This is one of the many ways we have suggested to help boys to sell THE POST. It makes the
work so easy that thousands of boys have taken it up. Some are making $10 to $15 a week after
school hours.

You can start in this business, at once, without capital. Send us your name and we will forward
10 free copies, which you can sell at five cents each. This will supply capital for the next
week's order.

=$300 IN CASH TO BOYS Who Do Good Work EACH MONTH=

