 And finally, in this
way, he did find the very same pair the wanderers had met!

He learned from them all they could tell him--that the child and the old man had disappeared
at the fair, and that since then (so they had heard) a pair resembling them had been seen with
the Jarley waxwork exhibition. The Stranger easily discovered where Mrs. Jarley was, and determined
to set out to her at once. But he remembered that his brother, little Nell's grandfather, could
not be expected to know him after all the years he had been gone, and as for little Nell herself,
she had never seen him, and he was afraid if they heard a strange man had come for them they
would take fright and run away again. So he tried to find some one they had loved to go with
him to show that he intended only kindness.

He was not long in hearing of Kit, who had found a situation as footman, and he gained his
employer's leave to take the lad with him. When Kit learned that The Stranger had discovered
where little Nell was he was overjoyed; but he knew he himself was not the one to go, because
before they disappeared she had told him he must never come to the Old Curiosity Shop again
and that her grandfather blamed him as the cause of their misfortune. But Kit promised the
Stranger that his mother should go in his place, and went to tell her at once.

Kit found his mother was at church, but the matter was so urgent that he went straight to the
pew and brought her out, which caused even the minister to pause in his sermon and made all
the congregation look surprised. Kit took her home, packed her box and bundled her into the
coach which the Stranger brought, and away they went to find the wanderers.

Now Quilp had all along suspected that Kit and his mother knew something of their whereabouts,
and he had made it his business to watch either one or the other. The dwarf, in fact, was in
the church when Kit came for his mother, and he followed. When she left with the Stranger he
took another coach and pursued, feeling certain he was on the right track.

But they were all too late. When the Stranger found Mrs. Jarley next day she could only tell
him that little Nell and her grandfather had disappeared again, and he had to return with Kit's
mother, much discouraged, to London.

The part Kit had played in this made the dwarf hate him, if possible, more than ever, and he
agreed to pay Brass, his rascally lawyer, to ruin the lad by making a false charge of theft
against him.

One day, when Kit came to Brass's house to see the Stranger, who lodged up stairs, the lawyer
cunningly hid a five-pound note in the lad's hat and as soon as he left ran after him, seized
him in the street and accused him of taking it from his office desk.

Kit was arrested, and the note, of course, was found on his person. The evidence seemed so
strong that the poor fellow was quickly tried, found guilty and sentenced to prison for a long
time.

All might have gone wrong but for a little maid-servant of Brass's, whom the lawyer had starved
and mistreated for years. He used to keep her locked in the moldy cellar and gave her so little
to eat that she would creep into the office at night (she had found a key that fitted the door)
to pick up the bits of bread that Dick Swiveller, Brass's clerk, had left when he ate his luncheon.

One night, while this little drudge was prowling about above stairs, she overheard Brass telling
his sister, Sally (who was his partner and colder and crueler and more wicked even than he
was), the trick he was going to play. After Kit was arrested she ran away from Brass's house
and told her story to Kit's employer, who had all along believed in his innocence.

Brass in the meantime had gone to Quilp to get his reward for this evil deed, but the terrible
dwarf now only laughed at him and pretended to remember nothing at all about the bargain.

This so enraged the lawyer that, when he was brought face to face with the little maid's evidence
and found that he himself was caught, he made full confession of the part Quilp had played,
and told the whole story to revenge himself on the dwarf.

Officers were sent at once to arrest Quilp at a dingy dwelling on a wharf in the river where
he often slept with the object of terrifying his wife by his long absences. Here he had set
up the battered figurehead of a wrecked ship and, imagining that its face resembled that of
Kit whom he so fiendishly hated, he used to amuse himself by screwing gimlets into its breast,
sticking forks into its eyes and beating it with a poker.

A few minutes before the officers arrived the dwarf received warning from Sally Brass, but
he had no time to get away. When he heard the knocking on the gates and knew that the law he
had so long defied was at last upon him, he fell into a panic and did not know which way to
turn. He tried to cover the light of the fire, but only succeeded in upsetting the stove. Then
he ran out of the house on to the dock in the darkness.

It was a black, foggy night, and he could not see a foot before him. He thought he could climb
over the wall to the next wharf and so escape, but in his fright he missed his way and fell
over the edge of the platform into the swift-flowing river.

He screamed in terror, but the water filled his throat and the knocking on the gates was so
loud that no one heard him. The water swept him close to a ship, but its keel was smooth and
slippery and there was nothing to cling to. He had been so wicked that he was afraid to die
and he fought desperately, but the rapid tide smothered his cries and dragged him down--to death.

The waves threw his drowned body finally on the edge of a dismal swamp, in the red glare of
the blazing ruin which the overturned stove that night made of the building in which he had
framed his evil plots. And this was the end of Quilp, the dwarf.

As for Kit, he found himself all at once not only free, but a hero. His employer came to the
jail to tell him that he was free and that everyone knew now of his innocence, and they made
him eat and drink, and everybody shook hands with him. Then he was put into a coach and they
drove straight home, where his mother was waiting to kiss him and cry over him with joy.

And last, but by no means least of all his new good fortune, he learned then that the Stranger
who had been searching so long for little Nell and her grandfather had found certainly where
they were and that Kit was to go with him and his employer at once and bring them back again
to London.

They started the next day, and on the long road they talked much of little Nell and the strange
chance by which the lost had been found. A gentleman who lived in the village to which they
were now bound, who had himself been kind to the child and to the old man whom the new schoolmaster
had brought with him, had written of the pair to Kit's employer, and the letter had been the
lost clue, so long sought, to their hiding-place.

Snow began falling as the daylight wore away, and the coach wheels made no noise. All night
and all the next day, they rode, and it was midnight before they came to the town where the
two wanderers had taken refuge.

The village was very still, and the air was frosty and cold. Only a single light was to be
seen, coming from a window beside a church. This was the house which the Stranger knew sheltered
those they sought, but both he and Kit felt a strange fear as they saw that light--the only
one in the whole village.

They left the driver to take the horses to the inn and approached the building afoot. They
went quite close and looked through the window. In the room an old man bent low over a fire
crooning to himself, and Kit, seeing that it was his old master, opened the door, ran in, knelt
by him and caught his hand.

The old grandfather did not recognize Kit. He believed him a spirit, as he thought many spirits
had talked to him that day. He was much changed, and it seemed as if some great blow or grief
had crazed him. He had a dress of little Nell's in his hand and smoothed and patted it as he
muttered that she had been asleep--asleep a long time now, and was marble cold and would not wake.

"Her little homely dress!" he said. "And see here--these shoes--how worn they are! You see
where her feet went bare upon the ground.

So he muttered on, and the cheeks of the others were wet with tears, for they had begun to
understand the sad truth.

Kit could not speak, but the Stranger did: "You speak of little Nell," he said. "Do you remember,
long ago, another child, too, who loved you when you were a child yourself? Say that you had
a brother, long forgotten, who now at last came back to you to be what you were then to him.
Give me but one word, dear brother, to say you know me, and life will still be precious to
us again."

The old man shook his head, for grief had killed all memory. Pushing them aside, he went into
the next room, calling little Nell's name softly as he went.

They followed. Kit sobbed as they entered, for there on her bed little Nell lay dead.

Dear, gentle, patient, noble Nell! The schoolmaster told them of her last hours. They had read
and talked to her a while, and then she had sunk peacefully to sleep. They knew by what she
said in her dreams that they were of her wanderings, and of the people who had helped them,
for often she whispered, "God bless you." And she spoke once of beautiful music that was in
the air.

Opening her eyes at last, she begged that they would kiss her once again. That done, she turned
to the old man with a lovely smile on her face--such, he said, as he had never seen--and threw
both arms about his neck. They did not know at first that she was dead.

They laid little Nell to rest the next day in the churchyard where she had so often sat. The
old man never realized quite what had happened. He thought she would come back to him some
day, and that then they would go away together. He used to sit beside her grave and watch for
her each afternoon.

One day he did not return at the usual hour and they went to look for him. He was lying dead
upon the stone.

They buried him beside the child he had loved, and there in the churchyard where they had often
talked together they both lie side by side.

None of those who had known little Nell ever forgot her story. After the death of the old man,
his brother, the Stranger who had sought them so long, traveled in the footsteps of the two
wanderers to search out and reward all who had been kind to them--Mrs. Jarley of the waxwork,
the Punch-and-Judy showmen, he found them all. Even the rough canal boatmen were not forgotten.

Kit's story got abroad and he found himself with hosts of friends, who gave him a good position
and secured his mother from want. So that his greatest misfortune turned out, after all, to
be his greatest good.

The little maid whose evidence cleared Kit of the terrible charge against him lived to marry
Dick Swiveller, the clerk of Brass, the lawyer, while meek Mrs. Quilp, after her husband's
drowning, married a clever young man and lived a pleasant life on the dead dwarf's money.

The fate of the others, whose wickedness has been a part of this story, was not so pleasant.
The two gamblers who tempted the old man to steal Mrs. Jarley's strong box were detected in
another crime and sent to jail. Brass became a convict, condemned to walk on a treadmill, chained
to a long line of other evil men, and dragging wherever he went a heavy iron ball. After he
was released he joined his wicked sister, Sally, and the two sank lower and lower till they
might even be seen on dark nights on narrow London streets searching in refuse boxes for bits
of food, like twin spirits of wickedness and crime.

When Kit had grown to be a man and had children of his own, he often took them to the spot
where stood what had been The Old Curiosity Shop and told them over and over the story of little
Nell. And he always ended by saying that if they were good like her they might go some time
where they could see and know her as he had done when he was a boy.

THE ADVENTURES OF OLIVER TWIST

Published 1837

Scene: London and Neighboring Towns

Time: 1825 to 1837

CHARACTERS

    Oliver Twist                                       A foundling

    Mr. Bumble                         The master of the poorhouse

    Mrs. Bumble                      The mistress of the poorhouse

    Monks                      Oliver's half-brother and his enemy

    Mr. Brownlow                               Oliver's benefactor

    Mrs. Maylie                              Oliver's benefactress

    Miss Rose                          Mrs. Maylie's adopted niece
                       In reality Oliver's aunt

    Fagin                                                    A Jew
                 Leader of a gang of thieves in London

    Bill Sikes                                           A burglar

    Nancy                                 Sikes's partner in crime

    "The Artful Dodger"                      A youthful pickpocket

OLIVER TWIST

I

HOW OLIVER CAME TO LONDON AND WHAT HE FOUND THERE

Oliver Twist was the son of a poor lady who was found lying in the street one day in an English
village, almost starved and very ill. She had walked a long way, for her shoes were worn to
pieces, but where she came from or where she was going nobody knew. As she had no money, she
was taken to the poorhouse, where she died the next day without even telling her name, leaving
behind her only a gold locket, which was around her neck, and a baby.

The locket fell into the hands of the mistress of the poorhouse, who was named Mrs. Bumble.
It contained the dead mother's wedding-ring, and, as Mrs. Bumble was a dishonest woman, she
hid both locket and ring, intending sometime to sell them.

The baby was left, with no one to care for it, to grow up at the poorhouse with the other wretched
orphan children, who wore calico dresses all alike and had little to eat and many whippings.

Mr. Bumble, the master of the poorhouse, was a pompous, self-important bully who browbeat every
one weaker than himself and scolded and cuffed the paupers to his heart's content. It was he
who named the baby "Oliver Twist." He used to name all the babies as they came along, by the
letters of the alphabet. The one before Oliver was named Swubble; then came Oliver with a T;
the next would be Unwin, the next Vilkins, and so on down to Z. Then he would begin the alphabet
all over again.

Little Oliver, the baby, grew without any idea of who he was. When he was a year old he was
sent to the poor-farm where an old woman took care of orphan children for a very small sum
apiece each week. This money, which was paid by the town, was hardly enough to buy them food,
but nevertheless the old woman took good care to save the bigger share for herself.

He lived there till he was a pale, handsome boy of nine years, and then he was taken to the
workhouse, where, with many other boys of his own age or older, he had to work hard all day
picking oakum.

The boys had nothing but thin gruel for their meals, with an onion twice a week and half a
roll on Sundays. They ate in a great stone hall, in one end of which stood the big copper of
gruel which Mr. Bumble ladled out. Each boy got only one helping, and the bowls never needed
washing, because, when the meal was through, there was not a drop of gruel left in them. After
each meal they all sat staring at the copper and sucking their fingers, but nobody dared ask
for more.

One day they felt so terribly hungry that one of the biggest boys said unless he got another
helping of gruel he was afraid he would have to eat the boy who slept next him. The little
boys all believed this and cast lots to see who should ask for more. It fell to Oliver Twist.

So that night after supper, though he was dreadfully frightened, Oliver rose and went up to
the end of the room and said to Mr. Bumble, "Please, sir, I want some more."

Mr. Bumble was so surprised he turned pale. "What!" he gasped.

"Please, sir," said Oliver again, "I want some more."

Mr. Bumble picked up the ladle and struck Oliver on the head with it; then he pounced on him
and shook him. When he was tired shaking him, he dragged him away and shut him up in a dark
room, where he stayed a whole week, and was only taken out once a day to be whipped. Then,
to make an example of him, a notice was pasted on the gate of the workhouse offering a reward
to anybody who would take poor Oliver away and do what he liked with him.

The first one who came by was a middle-aged chimney-sweep, who wanted a boy to climb up the
insides of chimneys and clean out the soot. This was a dangerous thing to do, for sometimes
the boys who did it got burned or choked with the smoke, and when Oliver found what they were
going to do with him and looked at the man's cruel face, he burst out crying, so that a kind-hearted
magistrate interfered and would not let the chimney-sweep have him.

Mr. Bumble finally gave him to the village undertaker, and there he had to mind the shop and
do all the chores. He slept under the counter among piles of empty coffins. The undertaker's
wife beat him often, and whenever he was not at work he had to attend funerals, which was by
no means amusing, so that he found life no better than it had been at the workhouse. The undertaker
had an apprentice, too, who kicked him whenever he came near.

All this wretchedness Oliver bore as well as he could, without complaining. But one day the
cowardly apprentice began to say unkind things of Oliver's dead mother, and this he could not
stand. His anger made him stronger even than his tormentor, though the latter was more than
a head taller and much older, and he sprang upon him, caught him by the throat and, after shaking
him till his teeth rattled, knocked him flat on the floor.

The big bully screamed for help and cried that he was being murdered, so that the undertaker
and his wife came running in. Oliver told them what the apprentice had said, but that made
no difference. The undertaker sent for Mr. Bumble, and between them they flogged him till he
could hardly stand and sent him to bed without anything to eat.

Till then Oliver had not shed a tear, but now, alone in the dark, he felt so miserable that
he cried for a long time.

There was nothing to do, he thought at last, but to run away. So he tied up his few belongings
in a handkerchief and, waiting till the first beam of sunrise, he unbarred the door and ran
away as fast as he could, through the town into the country.

He hid behind hedges whenever he saw anybody, for fear the undertaker or Mr. Bumble were after
him, and before long he found a road that he knew led to London. Oliver had never seen a city,
but he thought where there were so many people there would certainly be something for a boy
to do to earn his living, so he trudged stoutly on and before nightfall had walked twenty miles.
He begged a crust of bread at a cottage and slept under a hayrick. The next day and night he
was so very hungry and cold that when morning came again he could scarcely walk at all.

He sat down finally at the edge of a village, wondering whether he was going to die, when he
saw coming along the queerest-looking boy. He was about Oliver's age, with a snub nose, bow
legs and little sharp eyes. His face was very dirty and he wore a man's coat, whose ragged
tails came to his heels.

The boy saw Oliver's plight and asked him what the matter was, mixing his words with such a
lot of strange slang that Oliver could hardly understand him. When Oliver explained that he
had been walking a number of days and was very hungry, the other took him to a shop near by,
bought him some bread and ham, and watched him eat it with great attention, asking him many
questions--whether he had any money or knew any place in London where he could stay. Oliver
answered no.

"Don't fret about that," said the other. "I know a 'spectable old genelman as lives there wot'll
give you lodgings for nothing if I interduce you."

Oliver did not think his new host looked very respectable himself, but he thought it might
be as well for him to know the old gentleman, particularly as he had nowhere else to go. So
they set off.

It was night when they reached London, and it was so big and crowded that Oliver kept close
to his guide. He noticed, however, that the streets they passed through were narrow and dirty
and the houses old and hideously filthy. The people, too, seemed low and wretched.

He was just wondering if he had not better run away when the boy pushed open a door, drew Oliver
inside, up a broken stairway and into a back room.

Here, frying some sausages over a stove, was a shriveled old Jew in a greasy flannel gown.
He was very ugly and his matted red hair hung down over his villainous face. In a corner stood
a clothes-horse on which hung hundreds of silk handkerchiefs, and four or five boys, as dirty
and oddly dressed as the one who had brought Oliver, sat about a table smoking pipes like rough,
grown men.

Oliver's guide introduced him to the Jew, whose name was Fagin, and the boys crowded around
him, putting their hands into his pockets, which he thought a queer joke. Fagin grinned horribly
as he shook hands with him and told him he was very welcome, which did not tend to reassure
him, and then the sausages were passed around. The Jew gave Oliver a glass of something to
drink, and as soon as he drank it he became very sleepy and knew nothing more till the following
morning.

The next few days Oliver saw much to wonder at. When he woke up, Fagin was sorting over a great
box full of watches, which he hid away when he saw Oliver was looking. Every day the boy who
had brought him there, whom they called "the Artful Dodger," came in and gave the Jew some
pocketbooks and handkerchiefs. Oliver thought he must have made the pocketbooks, only they
did not look new, and some seemed to have money in them. He noticed, too, that whenever the
Artful Dodger came home empty-handed Fagin seemed angry and cuffed and kicked him and sent
him to bed supperless; but when he brought home a good number everything was very jolly.

Whenever there was nothing else to do, the old Jew played a very curious game with the boys.
This was the way they played it:

Fagin would put a snuff-box in one pocket, a watch in another and a handkerchief in a third;
then he would walk about the room just as any old gentleman would walk about the street, stopping
now and then, as if he were looking into shop-windows. All the time the boys followed him closely,
sometimes treading on his toes or stumbling against him, and when this happened one of them
would slip a hand into his pocket and take out either the watch or the snuff-box or the handkerchief.
If the Jew felt a hand in his pocket he cried out which it was, and then the game began all
over again. At last Fagin made Oliver try if he could take something out of his pocket without
his knowing it, and when Oliver succeeded he patted his head and seemed well pleased.

But Oliver grew very tired of the dirty room and the same game. He longed for the open air
and begged to be allowed to go out; so one day the Jew put him in charge of the Artful Dodger
and they went upon the streets, Oliver wondering where in the world he was going to be taught
to make pocketbooks.

He was on the point of asking, when the Artful Dodger signed to him to be silent, and slunk
behind an old gentleman who was reading a book in front of a book-stall. You can imagine Oliver's
horror when he saw him thrust his hand into the old gentleman's pocket, draw out a silk handkerchief
and run off at full speed.

In an instant Oliver understood the mystery of the handkerchiefs, the watches, the purses and
the curious game he had learned at Fagin's. He knew then that the Artful Dodger was a pickpocket.
He was so frightened that for a minute he lost his wits and ran off as fast as he could go.

Just then the old gentleman found his handkerchief was gone and, seeing Oliver running away,
shouted "Stop thief!" which frightened the poor boy even more and made him run all the faster.
Everybody joined the chase, and before he had gone far a burly fellow overtook Oliver and knocked
him down.

A policeman was at hand and he was dragged, more dead than alive, to the police court, followed
by the angry old gentleman.

The moment the latter saw the boy's face, however, he could not believe it was the face of
a thief, and refused to appear against him, but the magistrate was in a bad humor and was about
to sentence Oliver to prison, anyway, when the owner of the book-stall came hurrying in. He
had seen the theft and knew Oliver was not guilty, so the magistrate was obliged to let him go.

But the terror and the blow he had received had been too much for Oliver. He fell down in a
faint, and the old gentleman, whose name was Mr. Brownlow, overcome with pity, put him into
a coach and drove him to his own home, determined, if the boy had no parents, to adopt him
as his own son.

II

OLIVER'S ADVENTURES

While Oliver was resting in such good hands, very strange things were occurring in the house
of Fagin. When the Artful Dodger told him of the arrest the Jew was full of anger. He had intended
to make a clever thief of Oliver and compel him to bring him many stolen things; now he had
not only failed in this and lost the boy's help, but he was also afraid that Oliver would tell
all about the wicked practices he had seen and show the officers where he had lived. This he
thought was likely to happen at any time, unless he could get the boy into his power again.

Something had occurred, too, meantime, that made Fagin almost crazy with rage at losing him.
It was this: A wicked man--so wicked that he was afraid of thunder--who went by the name of
Monks, had come to him and told him he would pay a large sum of money if he could succeed in
making Oliver a thief and so ruin his reputation and his good name.

It was plain enough that for some reason the man hated Oliver, but, cunning as Fagin was, he
would never have guessed why. For Monks was really Oliver's older half-brother!

A little while before this story began, Oliver's father had been obliged to go on a trip to
a foreign country, where he died very suddenly. But before he died he made a will, in which
he left all his fortune to be divided between the baby Oliver and his mother. He left only
a small sum to his older son, because he knew that he was wicked, and did not deserve any.
The will declared Oliver should have the money only on condition that he never stain his name
with any act of meanness, dishonor, cowardice or wrong. If he did do this, then half the money
was to go to the older son. The dying man also wrote a letter to Oliver's mother, telling her
that he had made the will and that he was dying; but the older son, who was with him when he
died, found the letter and destroyed it.

So Oliver's poor mother, knowing nothing of all this, when his father did not come back, thought
at last that he had deserted her, and in her shame stole away from her home, poor and ill-clad,
to die finally in the poorhouse.

The older brother, who had taken the name of Monks, hunted and hunted for them, because he
hated Oliver on account of their father's will, and wanted to do him all the harm he could.
He discovered that they had been taken into the poorhouse, and went there, but this was after
Oliver had run away. He found, however, to his satisfaction, that the boy knew nothing about
his parentage or his real name, and Monks made up his mind to prevent his ever learning.

There was only one person who could have told Oliver, and that one was Mrs. Bumble. She knew
through the locket she had kept, which had belonged to Oliver's mother and which contained
the dead woman's wedding-ring with her name engraved inside it. When Mrs. Bumble heard that
a man named Monks was searching for news of Oliver, she thought it a capital chance to make
some money. She went, therefore, to Monks's house and sold the locket and ring to him. These,
Monks thought, were the only proofs in the world that could ever show Oliver who he was, and
to make it impossible for him ever to see them, he dropped them through a trap-door in his
house down into the river, where they could never be found.

But Monks did not give up searching for Oliver, and at last, on the very day that Oliver was
arrested, he saw him coming from Fagin's house with the Artful Dodger.

From his wonderful resemblance to their dead father, he guessed at once that Oliver was the
half-brother whose very name he hated. Knowing the other now to be in London, Monks was afraid
that by some accident he might yet find out what a fortune had been willed him. If he could
only make Oliver dishonest, Monks reflected, half their father's fortune would become his own.
With this thought in mind he had gone to Fagin and had made him his offer of money to make
the boy a thief.

Fagin, of course, had agreed, and now, to find his victim was out of his power made the Jew
grind his teeth with rage.

All these things made Fagin determined to gain possession of Oliver again, and to do this he
got the help of two others--a young woman named Nancy and her lover, a brutal robber named
Bill Sikes. These two discovered that Oliver was at Mr. Brownlow's house, and lay in wait to
kidnap him if he ever came out.

The chance they waited for occurred before many days. Mr. Brownlow sent Oliver to take some
money to the very book-stall in front of which the Artful Dodger had stolen the handkerchief,
and Oliver went without dreaming of any danger.

Suddenly a young woman in a cap and apron screamed out behind him very loudly: "Oh, my dear
little brother!" and threw her arms tight around him. "Oh, my gracious, I've found him!" she
cried. "Come home directly, you naughty boy! For shame, to treat your poor mother so!"

Oliver struggled, but to no purpose. Nancy (for it was she) told the people that crowded about
them that it was her little brother, who had run away from home and nearly broken his mother's
heart, and that she wanted to take him back.

Oliver insisted that he didn't know her at all and hadn't any sister, but just then Bill Sikes
appeared (as he had planned) and said the young woman was telling the truth and that Oliver
was a little rascal and a liar. The people were all convinced at this, and when Sikes struck
Oliver and seized him by the collar they said, "Serves him right!" And so Oliver found himself
dragged away from Mr. Brownlow to the filthy house where lived Fagin.

The wily old Jew was overjoyed to see them. He smiled such a fiendish smile that Oliver screamed
for help as loud as he could, and at this Fagin picked up a great jagged club to beat him with.

Now, Nancy had been very wicked all her life, but in spite of this there was a little good
in her. She had already begun to repent having helped steal the boy, and now his plight touched
her heart. She seized the club and threw it into the fire, and so saved him the beating for
that time.

For many days Oliver was kept a prisoner. He was free to wander about the mildewed old house,
but every outer door was locked and every window had closed iron shutters. All the light came
in through small round holes at the top, which made the rooms gloomy and full of shadows. Spiderwebs
were over all the walls, and often the mice would go scampering across the floor. There was
only one window to look out of, and that was in a back garret, but it had iron bars and looked
out only on to the housetops.

He found only one book to read: this was a history of the lives of great criminals and was
full of stories of secret thefts and murders. For the old Jew, having tortured his mind by
loneliness and gloom, had left the volume in his way, hoping it would instil into his soul
the poison that would blacken it for ever.

But Oliver's blood ran cold as he read, and he pushed the book away in horror, and, falling
on his knees, prayed that he might be spared from such deeds and rescued from that terrible place.

He was still on his knees when Nancy came in and told him he must get ready at once to go on
a journey with Bill Sikes. She had been crying and her face was bruised as though she had been
beaten. Oliver saw she was very sorry for him, and, indeed, she told him she would help him
if she could, but that there was no use trying to escape now, because they were watched all
the time, and if he got away Sikes would certainly kill her.

Nancy took him to the house where Sikes lived, and the next morning the latter started out,
making Oliver go with him. Sikes had a loaded pistol in his overcoat pocket, and he showed
this to Oliver and told him if he spoke to anybody on the road or tried to get away he would
shoot him with it.

They walked a long way out of London, once or twice riding in carts which were going in their
direction. Whenever this happened Sikes kept his hand in the pocket where the pistol was, so
that Oliver was afraid to appeal for help. Late at night they came to an old deserted mansion
in the country, and in the basement of this, where a fire had been kindled, they joined two
other men whom Oliver had seen more than once in Fagin's house in London.

The journey had been cold and long and Oliver was very hungry, but he could scarcely eat the
supper that was given him for fear of what they intended to do with him in that lonely spot.
He was so tired, however, that he finally went fast asleep and knew nothing more till two o'clock
in the morning, when Sikes woke him roughly and bade him come with them.

It was foggy and cold and dark outside. Sikes and one of the others each took one of Oliver's
hands, and so they walked a quarter of a mile to where was a fine house with a high wall around
it. They made him climb over the wall with them, and, pulling him along, crept toward the house.

It was not till now that Oliver knew what they intended--that they were going to rob the house
and make him help them, so that he, too, would be a burglar. His limbs began to tremble and
he sank to his knees, begging them to have mercy and to let him run away and die in the fields
rather than to make him steal. But Sikes drew his pistol with a frightful oath and dragged him on.

In the back of the house was a window, which was not fastened, because it was much too small
for a man to get through. But Oliver was so little that he could do it easily. With the pistol
in his hand, Sikes put Oliver through the window, gave him a lantern and bade him go and unlock
the front door for them.

Oliver had made up his mind that as soon as he got beyond the range of Sikes's pistol he would
scream and wake everybody in the house, but just then there was a sound from inside, and Sikes
called to him to come back.

Suddenly there was a loud shout from the top of the stairs--a flash--a report--and Oliver staggered
back with a terrible pain in his arm and with everything swimming before his eyes.

He heard cries and the loud ringing of a bell and felt Sikes drag him backward through the
window. He felt himself being carried along rapidly, and then a cold sensation crept over his
heart and he knew no more.

III

HOW EVERYTHING TURNED OUT RIGHT FOR OLIVER IN THE END

After a long, long time Oliver came to himself. The morning was breaking. He tried to rise
and found that his arm was wounded and his clothes wet with blood.

He was so dizzy he could hardly stand, but it was freezing cold, and he knew if he stayed there
he must die. So he staggered on till he came to a road where, a little way off, he saw a house.
There, he thought, he might get help. But when he came closer he saw that it was the very house
the men had tried to rob that night. Fear came over him then, and he would have run away, but
he was too weak.

He had just strength left to push open the gate, totter across the lawn and knock at the door;
then he sank in a faint on the steps.

In the house lived a lady named Mrs. Maylie, just as kind-hearted as was Mr. Brownlow who had
rescued Oliver at the police station, and with her lived a beautiful girl whom she had adopted,
named Rose. The servants, when they came to the door, made sure Oliver was one of the robbers,
and sent at once for policemen to take him in charge; but Miss Rose, the moment she saw what
a good face the boy had and how little he looked like a thief, made them put him to bed and
send at once for the doctor.

When the good doctor arrived and saw Oliver, who was still unconscious, he thought Miss Rose
was right, and when the boy had come to himself and told them how he had suffered, he was certain
of it. They were both sorry the policemen had been sent for, because the doctor was sure they
would not believe Oliver's story, especially as he had been arrested once before. He would
have taken him away, but he was too sick to be moved.

So when the officers came the doctor told them that the boy had been accidentally shot and
had come to the house for assistance, when the servants had mistaken him for one of the burglars.
This was not exactly the truth, but it seemed necessary to deceive the policemen if Oliver
was to be saved. Of course, the servant that had fired the pistol was not able to swear that
he had hit anybody at all, so the officers had to go away without arresting anybody.

After this Oliver was ill for a long time, but he was carefully nursed, especially by Miss
Rose, who grew as fond of him as if she had been his sister. As soon as he grew better she
wrote a letter for him to Mr. Brownlow, the old gentleman who had rescued him from the police
station, but to Oliver's grief she found that he had gone to the West Indies.

Thus the time passed till Oliver was quite well, and then Miss Rose (first carefully instructing
the servant who went with them not to lose sight of him for a moment for fear of his old enemies)
took him with her for a visit to London.

Meantime there had been a dreadful scene in Fagin's house when Bill Sikes got back to London
and told the old Jew that the robbery had failed and that Oliver was lost again. They were
more afraid than ever that they would be caught and sent to prison. Fagin swore at Sikes, and
Monks cursed Fagin, and between them all they determined that Oliver must either be captured
or killed.

While they were plotting afresh Nancy, who had been feeling sorrier and sorrier for what she
had done, overheard them, and so found out that Monks was Oliver's half-brother and why he
so hated him; and she made up her mind to save the boy from his last and greatest danger.

So one evening, when she was alone with him, she gave Sikes some laudanum in a glass of liquor,
and when he was asleep she slipped away, found Miss Rose and told her all about it. Bad as
Nancy was, however, she was not willing to betray Fagin or Bill Sikes, so she only told her
of Monks.

Miss Rose was greatly astonished, for she had never heard of him before, but she pitied Nancy
because she had tried to help Oliver, and, of course, she herself wanted very much to help
him discover who he was and who his parents had been. She thanked Nancy and begged her to come
to see her again. Nancy was afraid to do this, because Bill Sikes watched her so closely, but
she promised that on the next Sunday at midnight she would be on a certain bridge where Miss
Rose might see her. Then Nancy hurried back before Sikes should wake up.

Miss Rose was in trouble now, for there was no one in London with her then who could help her.
But the same afternoon, whom should Oliver see at a distance, walking into his house, but Mr.
Brownlow. He came back in great joy to tell Miss Rose, and she concluded that the old gentleman
would be the very one to aid her. She took Oliver to the house, and, sure enough, there was
the boy's old benefactor.

Very glad, indeed, he was to hear what she told him. For the old gentleman, when Oliver had
disappeared with the money he had given him to take to the bookseller, had been reluctant to
think the boy he had befriended was, after all, a liar and a thief. He had advertised for him,
but the only result had been a call from Mr. Bumble, who told him terrible tales of Oliver's
wickedness. To find now, after all this time, that Oliver had not run away, and that Mr. Bumble's
tales were lying ones, was a joyful surprise to Mr. Brownlow.

After he had heard the whole, and when Oliver had gone into the garden, Miss Rose told him
of Nancy's visit and of the man Monks who still pursued the boy to do him harm.

It was fortunate that she had come to Mr. Brownlow, for, as it happened, he knew a great deal
about Monks and his evil life. Years before the old gentleman himself had been a friend of
Oliver's father. He knew all about his death in a foreign country, and had watched his older
son's career of shame with sorrow. The very trip he had made to the West Indies had acquainted
him with a crime Monks had committed there, from which he had fled to England. But, while Mr.
Brownlow knew of the curious will Oliver's father had made, what had become of the baby to
which the latter referred he had never known. Now, from the story Miss Rose told him, he was
assured that Oliver was, indeed, this baby half-brother of Monks.

But it was one thing to know this and quite another to enable Oliver to prove it. The old gentleman
was quick to see that they must get possession of Monks and frighten him into confessing the
fact--whose only proofs had been lost when he threw the locket and ring into the river. Mr.
Brownlow, for this reason, agreed with Miss Rose that they should both meet Nancy on the bridge
on the coming Sunday to hear all she had been able to find out.

They said not a word of this to Oliver, and when Sunday night came they drove to the spot where
Nancy had promised to meet them. She had kept her word. She was there before them, and Mr.
Brownlow heard her story over again from her own lips.

But some one else was there, too, hidden behind a pillar, where he could hear every word she
said, and this listener was a spy of Fagin's.

Nancy had cried so much and acted so strangely that the old Jew had grown suspicious and had
set some one to watch her. And who do you suppose this spy was? No other than the cowardly
apprentice who had bullied Oliver until he ran away from the undertaker's house. The apprentice
had finally run away, too, had come to London and begun a wicked life. He was too big a coward
to rob any one but little children who had been sent to the shop to buy something, so Fagin
had given him spying work to do, and in this, being by nature a sneak, he proved very successful.

The spy lay hid till he had heard all Nancy said; then he slipped out and ran as fast as his
legs would carry him back to Fagin. The latter sent for Bill Sikes, knowing him to be the most
brutal and bloodthirsty ruffian of all, and told him what Nancy had done.

The knowledge, as the Jew expected, turned Sikes into a demon. He rushed to where Nancy lived.
She had returned and was asleep on her couch, but she woke as he entered, and saw by his face
that he meant to murder her. Through all her evil career Nancy had been true to Sikes and would
not have betrayed him. But he would not listen now, though she pleaded with him pitifully to
come with her to some foreign country (as Miss Rose had begged her to do), where they might
both lead better lives. Fury had made him mad. As she clung to his knees, he seized a heavy
club and struck her down.

So poor Nancy died, with only time for a feeble prayer to God for mercy.

Of all bad deeds that Sikes had ever done, that was the worst. The sun shone through the window
and lit the room where Nancy lay. He tried to shut it out, but he could not. He grew suddenly
afraid. Horror came upon him. He crept out of the room, locked the door behind him, and plunged
into the crowded street.

He walked for miles and miles, here and there, without purpose. Whichever way he went he could
not rid himself of that horror. When night came he crawled into a disused shed, but he could
not sleep. Whenever he closed his eyes he seemed to see Nancy's eyes looking at him. He got
up and wandered on again, desperately lonely for some one to talk to.

He heard a man telling another about the murder as he read the account in a newspaper, and
knew that he must hide. He hastened then to a den he knew in a house beside the river, dirty
and dismal and the haunt of thieves. Some of his old companions were there, but even they shrank
from him.

He had been seen to enter the place, however, and in a few minutes the street was full of people,
all yelling for his capture. He barred the doors and windows, but they began to break down
the shutters with sledge-hammers.

He ran to the roof with a rope, thinking to let himself down on the side next the river and
so escape. Here he fastened one end of the rope to the chimney, and, making a loop in the other
end, put it over his head.

Just at that instant he imagined he saw Nancy's eyes again looking at him. He staggered back
in terror, missed his footing, and fell over the edge of the roof. He had not had time to draw
the noose down under his arms, so that it slipped up around his neck, and there he hung, dead,
with a broken neck.

Meanwhile Mr. Brownlow had acted very quickly, so that Monks had got no warning. He had had
men watching for the latter and now, having found out all he wanted to know, he had him seized
in the street, put into a coach and driven to his office, where he brought him face to face
with Oliver.

The old gentleman told Monks he could do one of two things: either he could confess before
witnesses the whole infamous plot he had framed against Oliver, and so restore to him his rights
and name, or else he could refuse, in which case he would at once be arrested and sent to prison.
Seeing that Mr. Brownlow knew all about the part he had played, Monks, to save himself, made
a full confession--how he had planned to keep his half-brother from his inheritance. And he
also confessed what no one there had guessed: that Miss Rose, who had been adopted in her infancy,
was really the sister of Oliver's dead mother--his aunt, indeed. This was the happiest of all
Oliver's surprises that day, for he had learned to love Miss Rose very dearly.

Monks thus bought his own freedom, and cheap enough he probably thought it, for before he had
finished his story, word came that Fagin the Jew had been captured by the police and was to
be tried without delay for his life.

Oliver no longer had anything to fear, and came into possession of his true name and his fortune.
Mr. Brownlow adopted him as his own son, and moved to the village where Oliver had been cared
for in the family of Miss Rose, and where they all lived happily ever afterward.

The company of thieves was broken up with Fagin's arrest. Fagin himself was found guilty, and
died on the gallows shrieking with fear. Monks sailed for America, where he was soon detected
in crime and died in prison.

The wicked apprentice, who had been the real cause of poor Nancy's murder, was so frightened
at the fate of Fagin that he reformed and became a spy for the police, and by his aid the Artful
Dodger, who continued to pick pockets, soon found himself in jail.

As for Mr. and Mrs. Bumble, they, of course, lost their positions, and sank from bad to worse
till they finally became paupers and were sent to the very same poorhouse where they had tortured
little Oliver Twist.

BARNABY RUDGE

Published 1841

Scene: London and the Country

Time: 1775 to 1780

CHARACTERS

    Barnaby Rudge                                A half-witted boy

    Rudge                                               His father
                              A murderer

    Mrs. Rudge                                          His mother

    Geoffrey Haredale                          A country gentleman

    Emma Haredale                                        His niece

    Sir John Chester                        An enemy of Haredale's

    Edward Chester                                         His son
                       In love with Emma Haredale

    Varden                                             A locksmith

    Dolly Varden                                      His daughter
                      A friend of Emma Haredale's

    Simon Tappertit                            Varden's apprentice

    Joe Willet                             The son of an innkeeper
                       In love with Dolly Varden

    "Maypole Hugh"                                 A giant hostler
               In reality, the son of Sir John Chester

    Lord George Gordon                          A deluded nobleman

    Gashford                                         His secretary

    Dennis                                               A hangman

    "Grip"                                    Barnaby's tame raven

BARNABY RUDGE

I

BARNABY'S BOYHOOD

Many years ago a gentleman named Haredale lived at a house called The Warren, near London.
His wife was dead and he had one baby daughter, Emma.

One morning he was found murdered in his house, which had been robbed. Both the gardener and
the steward, Rudge, were missing, and some people thought one had done it and some thought
the other. But some days later a disfigured body was found in a pond on the grounds which,
by its clothes and a watch and ring, was recognized as that of Rudge, the missing steward.
Then, of course, every one believed the gardener had murdered both, and the police searched
for him a long time, but he was never found.

On the same day this cruel murder was discovered, a baby was born to Mrs. Rudge, the wife of
the steward--a pretty boy, though with a birth-mark on the wrist as red as blood, and a strange
look of terror on the baby face. He was named Barnaby, and his mother loved him all the more
because it was soon seen he was weak-minded, and could never be in his right senses. She herself,
poor woman! seemed never able to forget the horror of that day.

Geoffrey Haredale, the brother and heir of the murdered man, took up his abode at The Warren
and adopted the little Emma, his niece, as his own daughter. He was kind to Mrs. Rudge also.
Not only did he let her live rent-free in a house he owned, but he did many a kind deed secretly
for her half-witted son as he grew older.

Barnaby Rudge grew up a strange, weird creature. His hair was long and red and hung in disorder
about his shoulders. His skin was pale, his eyes bright and his clothes he trimmed most curiously
with bits of gaudy lace and bright ribbons and glass toys. He wore a cluster of broken peacock
feathers in his hat and girded at his side was the broken hilt of an old sword without a blade.
But strangest of all was a little wicker basket he always carried on his back. When he set
this down and opened it, there hopped out a tame raven who would cock its head on one side
and say hoarsely and very knowingly:

"Hello! Hello! Hello! What's the matter here? Keep up your spirits. Never say die. I'm a devil,
I'm a devil, I'm a devil! Hurrah!"

Then it would whistle or make a noise like the drawing of a cork out of a bottle, repeated
a great many times, and flap its wings against its sides as if it were bursting with laughter.
This raven was named Grip and was Barnaby's constant companion. The neighbors used to say it
was one hundred and twenty years old (for ravens live a very long time), and some said it knew
altogether too much to be only a bird. But Barnaby would hear nothing said against it, and,
next to his mother, loved it better than anything in the world.

Barnaby knew that folks called him half-witted, but he cared little for that. Sometimes he
would laugh at what they said.

Haredale, who had been so kind to Barnaby's mother, was a burly, stern man who had few acquaintances
and lived much alone. When first he came to live at The Warren an enemy of his, Sir John Chester,
had circulated suspicious rumors about him, so that some came half to believe he himself had
had something to do with his brother's murder.

These whispers so affected Haredale that as time passed he grew gloomy and morose and lived
in seclusion, thinking only how he could solve the mystery of the murder, and loving more and
more the little Emma as she grew into a beautiful girl. He neglected The Warren so that the
property looked quite desolate and ruined, and at length superstitious people in the neighborhood
came to mutter that it was haunted by the ghost of Rudge, the steward, whose body had been
found in the pond.

The old bell-ringer of the near-by church even said he had seen this ghost once, when he went,
late one night, to wind the church clock. But of course others, who knew there were no such
things as ghosts, only smiled at these stories.

Sir John Chester, who so hated Haredale, was just as smooth and smiling and elegant as the
other was rough. Haredale had been Sir John's drudge and scapegoat at school and the latter
had always despised him. And as the years went by Sir John came to hate him.

His own son Edward had fallen in love with Emma, Haredale's niece, and she loved him in return.
Sir John had been all his life utterly selfish and without conscience. He had little money
and was much in debt and wanted his son to marry an heiress, so that he himself could continue
his life of pleasure. Edward, however, gave his father to understand that he would never give
up his love for Emma. Sir John believed that if Haredale chose, he could make his niece dislike
Edward, and because he did not, Sir John hated Haredale the more bitterly.

Emma had a close friend named Dolly Varden, the daughter of a locksmith. Dolly was a pretty,
dimpled, roguish little flirt, as rosy and sparkling and fresh as an apple, and she had a great
many lovers.

One of these was her father's apprentice, who lived in the same house. His name was Simon Tappertit--a
conceited, bragging, empty-headed young man with a great opinion of his own good looks. When
he looked at his thin legs, which he admired exceedingly, he could not see how it was that
Dolly could help worshiping him.

Tappertit had ambitions of his own and thought himself a great man who was kept down by a tyrannical
master, though the good-natured locksmith was the kindest man in London. He had formed a society
of apprentices whose toast was, "Death to all masters, life to all apprentices, and love to
all fair damsels!" He was their leader. He had made them all keys to fit their masters' doors,
and at night, when they were supposed to be asleep in bed, they would steal out to meet in
a dirty cellar owned by an old blind man, where they kept a skull and cross-bones and signed
high-sounding oaths with a pen dipped in blood, and did other silly things. The object of the
society was to hurt, annoy, wrong and pick quarrels with such of their masters as happened
not to please them. With such cheap fooleries Tappertit had convinced himself that he was fit
to be a great general.

But with all his smirking, Dolly Varden only laughed at him. To tell the truth, she was very
fond of young Joe Willet, whose father kept the Maypole Inn, very near The Warren where her
friend Emma Haredale lived. Joe was a good, brave fellow, and was head over ears in love with
Dolly, but Dolly was a coquette, and never let him know how much she cared for him. Joe was
not contented at home, for his father seemed to think him a child and did not treat him according
to his years, so that but for leaving Dolly Varden he would long ago have run away to seek
his fortune.

Both Joe and Dolly knew how Edward Chester loved Emma Haredale, and they used sometimes to
carry notes from one to the other, since the hatred of Sir John for Emma's uncle often prevented
the lovers from meeting.

Sir John found this out, and bribed a hostler at the Maypole Inn to spy for him and prevent,
if he could, these letters passing. The hostler was an uncouth, drunken giant that people called
Maypole Hugh, as strong as an ox, and cruel and cunning. Hugh watched carefully, and from time
to time would go to Sir John's house in London and report what he had seen.

II

THE MYSTERIOUS STRANGER AND WHO HE WAS

About this time residents in the neighborhood of The Warren and the Maypole Inn began to tell
tales of a mysterious man who roamed about the country-side.

He was seen often and by many persons, always at night, skulking in the shadow or riding furiously
on a horse. He was fierce and haggard and discourteous to travelers, wore a slouch hat which
he never took off, and generally kept the lower part of his face muffled in a handkerchief.
He always went alone. Some said he slept in church-yards, others that he never slept at all,
and still others that he was a wicked man who had sold his soul to the Evil One.

One night he rested at the Maypole Inn, and a little while after he had gone, Varden the locksmith,
Dolly's father, as he drove home, found Edward Chester lying in the road, having been wounded
and robbed of his money. Barnaby Rudge had seen the attack and was bending over him. He had
been too frightened to give aid, but from his description Varden knew the robber was the stranger
who had stopped at the inn.

The honest locksmith took Edward into his chaise, drove him to Barnaby's house, which was near
by, and left him in care of Mrs. Rudge, where a doctor soon dressed the wound, which was not
serious.

Next day Mr. Varden came to see how the wounded man was. As he sat talking with Mrs. Rudge
a tapping came at the window. She went to the door. The locksmith heard her cry out, and sprang
forward to find standing there, to his astonishment, the robber of the night before. He grasped
at him, but the woman threw herself before him, clasped his arm and besought him, for her life's
sake, not to pursue the man.

The locksmith had known Barnaby's mother all his life, but so strange was her action now (especially
since she refused to answer any question, begging him to ask her nothing) that he almost wondered
if she herself could be in league with a crime-doer. Her apparent agony touched him, however,
and, raising no alarm, he went home in great puzzle of mind.

He would have been far more disturbed if he had known the whole truth. For the mysterious stranger
he had seen, who by night had haunted the neighborhood, was none other than Mrs. Rudge's husband,
Barnaby's father, the steward who everybody believed had been murdered with his master, and
whose body had been found in the pond.

Rudge himself had committed that wicked deed. He had killed both master and gardener, and to
cover the crime had put his own clothes, his watch and ring on the latter's body and sunk it
in the pond. When, on the night of the murder, he told his wife what he had done, she had shrunk
fearfully from him, declaring that, although being his wife she would not give him up to justice,
yet she would never own him or shelter him. He had fled then with the money he had stolen,
and that night, while she lay sick with horror, Barnaby had been born with his poor crazed
brain, the look of terror in his baby face and the birth-mark of blood on his wrist.

For many years the guilty wretch had wandered the earth, but he could not escape the knowledge
of his deed. And at last his conscience had driven him back to the scene of his crime, friendless,
penniless, fearful of the sunlight, slinking by night like a ghost about the house in which
he had murdered his master, and hounding his miserable wife for money with which to buy food
and drink. The poor woman had kept her terrible secret, giving him every coin she could save,
striving so that Barnaby, unhappily born as he was, should never know the shame of having his
father suffer death on the gallows. When Rudge had come to her house that day he had thought
her alone, and she had saved him from capture only by begging the locksmith to stay his hand.

After his hairbreadth escape from Varden, Rudge hid himself in a narrow street. When the next
dawn came, as he searched for some dark den in which he might lie sheltered till another night,
he saw Simon Tappertit issuing with his noisy apprentice crew from the cellar in which they
held their meetings. He entered its door, made friends with the villainous blind man who kept
it and there established his headquarters.

Once more, one night after the wounded Edward had been taken to his own home, Rudge hunted
out his trembling wife and demanded money, threatening to bring harm to Barnaby if she refused
him, and she gave him all she had.

But this time dread of him made her desperate. When morning came she went to Haredale and told
him that she and her son could no longer live on his bounty. The next day, with Barnaby, who
carried on his back his beloved raven, Grip, she left the house afoot, telling no one where
they were going lest her husband find her out, and pushed far into the country to find a home
in some obscure village. And though Rudge, the murderer, and the blind man (who was much more
crafty and cunning than many men with eyesight) searched for them everywhere, it was a long
time before they found any trace.

Perhaps Joe and Dolly Varden missed poor cheery Barnaby more than did any one else. But several
events occurred soon after this that gave them other things to think of.

Maypole Hugh, the savage hostler, had continued his spying work for Edward's father, and Sir
John determined it was high time to break off his son's attachment for Emma Haredale.

One day Dolly was carrying a letter from Emma at The Warren to Edward, and as she passed through
the fields, Hugh attacked her, throwing his arms around her and pretending to make coarse love
to her. She was dreadfully frightened and screamed as loud as she could. Joe, as it happened,
was walking within sound of her voice, and ran like the wind to her aid.

In another moment Hugh had leaped the hedge and disappeared and Dolly was sobbing in her rescuer's
arms. She was afraid to tell Joe who had frightened her, for fear the hostler would take his
revenge by harming him, so she only said she had been attacked by a man whom she had never seen.

In her scare she had forgotten all about the letter she had carried, and now she discovered
it was gone. It was nowhere to be found.

This, of course, was because Hugh had stolen it. It was to get the letter that he had frightened
her, and he was soon on his way to carry it to Sir John. Dolly did not guess this. She wrote
to Emma telling her of the mishap, and this note Joe, to whom she intrusted it, knowing no
reason to distrust the hostler, gave to Hugh to deliver. So Sir John got both missives in the end.

Emma Haredale, not understanding why Edward returned no answer to her letter, was hurt, and
thought him cold. Sir John, seizing his opportunity, told her one day (pretending sorrow while
he did so) that his son, naturally fickle, had fallen in love with some one else, to whom he
was soon to be married.

Emma, not dreaming the father of the man she loved could be such a false liar, believed him,
and when Edward wrote her, speaking of his poverty and telling her he was going to leave England
to try to better his prospects, she thought his manly letter only an excuse to part from her.

Proud, though heartbroken, she did not answer it, and so, thanks to his father's selfish scheming,
Edward sailed away to the West Indies, hopeless and despairing.

Another left England at the same time whose going meant far more to Dolly Varden. This was
Joe. His father, the innkeeper, had been restraining him more and more, until his treatment
had become the jest of the country-side, and Joe had chafed to the point of rebellion at the
gibes that continually met him. One day, at the jeer of an old enemy of his, his wrath boiled
over. He sprang upon him and thrashed him soundly in the inn before the assembled guests. Then,
knowing his father would never forgive him, he went to his own room and barricaded the door.
That night Joe let himself down from his window and before daylight was in London.

He went first to the locksmith's house to tell Dolly he had run away and that he loved her,
but Dolly being a flirt, only laughed. To tell the truth, she was so very fond of Joe that
she didn't like to show him how sorry she was. So the poor fellow went away thinking she cared
very little (though as soon as he was out of sight she nearly cried her eyes out), and enlisted
as a soldier. That same night Joe started from London to fight in the war in America. And it
was a long time before either he or Edward Chester was heard of again.

III

BARNABY GETS INTO TROUBLE

Five years went by, and Edward Chester remained in the West Indies and prospered. For five
years Joe Willet fought in the war in America. And for five years Barnaby Rudge with his mother
and Grip, the raven, lived unmolested in their little village and were happy.

At the end of the five years three things happened at about the same time: Edward started back
to England from the West Indies with a fair fortune in his pocket; Joe was sent back from America
with one arm gone, and Barnaby and his mother left their village home again, secretly, and
set out for London, hoping to lose themselves in its hugeness. The wily blind man, the companion
now of Rudge, the murderer, had found them out!

He came one day and made Mrs. Rudge give him all the money she had been able to lay by in these
five years except a single gold piece. He told her he would return in a week for more and that
if she had not got it then, he would entice Barnaby away to join in the evil life of his father.
So she left the village the very next morning, and she and Barnaby trudged afoot all the weary
way to the great city.

Though they knew nothing of it, there was great excitement in London. Lord George Gordon, a
well-meaning but crack-brained nobleman, led astray by flatterers till he believed he had a
God-given mission to drive all Catholics out of England, had, sometime before this, begun to
hold meetings and to stir up the people with the cry of "No Popery!"

He declared that the religion of the country was in danger of being overthrown and that the
Pope of Rome was plotting to make his religion supreme. And this idea he talked wherever he
went. He was a slender, sallow man who dressed in severe black and wore his hair smoothly combed,
and his bright, restless eyes and his look of uncertainty made it clear that he was no man
to lead, but was rather himself the misled dupe of others.

One of these schemers who ruled him was his secretary, Gashford, a man of ugly face, with beetling
brows and great flapped ears. He had been a thief and a scoundrel all his life, and had wormed
himself into Lord George's confidence by flattery. He easily fooled his master into believing
that the rabble who flocked to hear him, and the idle loungers who yelled themselves hoarse
at what he said, were crowds of honest citizens who believed as he did, and were ready to follow
his leadership. Gashford had added to his followers even Dennis, the hangman of London, and
the foolish nobleman not knowing the ruffian's true calling, thought him a man to trust.

For many weeks this banding together of all the lawless ragamuffins of London had gone on,
till one had only to shout "No Popery!" on any street corner to draw together a crowd bent
on mischief. Respectable people grew afraid and kept to their houses, and criminals and street
vagabonds grew bolder and bolder.

As may be guessed, Simon Tappertit, the one-time apprentice of Varden the locksmith, rejoiced
at this excitement as at a chance to show his talent for leadership. His apprentice society
had now become the "United Bulldogs," and he himself, helping the schemes of Gashford, strutted
about among the crowds with an air of vast importance.

Sir John Chester watched the trouble gathering with glee. His old enemy Haredale, he knew,
was a Catholic, and as this movement, if it grew bold enough, meant harm to all of that religion,
he hoped for its success. He was too cunning to aid it publicly, but he sent Maypole Hugh,
who was still his spy, to Gashford; and the brawny hostler, who savagely longed for fighting
and plunder, joined with the secretary and with Dennis the hangman to help increase the tumult.

A day had been set on which Lord George Gordon had vowed he would march to Parliament at the
head of forty thousand men to demand the passing of a law to forbid all Catholics to enter
the country. This vast rabble-army gathered in a great field, under the command of these sorry
leaders--the misguided lord, Dennis the hangman, Tappertit, Hugh the hostler, Gashford the
secretary, and other rowdies picked for their boldness and daring. The mob thus formed covered
an immense space. All wore blue cockades in their hats or carried blue flags, and from them
went up a hoarse roar of oaths, shouts and ribald songs.

Such was the scene on which Barnaby and his mother came as they walked into London. They knew
nothing of its cause or its meaning. Mrs. Rudge saw its rough disorder with terror, but the
confusion, the waving flags and the shouts had got into Barnaby's brain. To him this seemed
a splendid host marching to some noble cause. He watched with sparkling eyes, longing to join it.

Suddenly Maypole Hugh rushed from the crowd with a shout of recognition, and, thrusting a flagstaff
into Barnaby's hands, drew him into the ranks.

His mother shrieked and ran forward, but she was thrown to the ground; Barnaby was whirled
away into the moving mass and she saw him no more.

Barnaby enjoyed that hour of march with all his soul, and the louder the howling the more he
was thrilled. The crowd surrounded the houses of Parliament and fought the police. At length
a regiment of mounted soldiers charged them. Barnaby thought this brave work and held his ground
valiantly, even knocking one soldier off his horse with the flagstaff, until others dragged
him to a place of safety.

That night the drunken mob, grown bolder, tore down, pillaged and burned all the Catholic chapels
within their reach, and, with Hugh and Dennis the hangman, poor crazed Barnaby ran at its head,
covered with dirt, his garments torn to rags, singing and leaping with delight. He thought
he was the most courageous of all, that he was helping to destroy the country's enemies, and
that when the fighting was over he and his mother would be rich and she would always be proud
that he was so noble and so brave.

The golden cups, the candlesticks and the money they stole from the burned chapels Hugh and
the hangman buried under a heap of straw in the tavern which they had made their headquarters,
and left Barnaby to guard the place. He counted this a sacred trust, and when soldiers came
to arrest all in the building he refused to fly in time. He even fought them single-handed
and felled two before he was knocked down with the butt of a musket and handcuffed.

While he had been resisting, Grip had been busily plucking away the straw from the hidden plunder;
now his hoarse croak showed them the hoard and they unearthed it all. At length, closing ranks
around Barnaby, they marched him off to a barracks, from which he was taken to Newgate Prison,
where a blacksmith put irons on his arms and legs, and he and the raven were locked in a cell.

While Barnaby was guarding the tavern room, Hugh, egged on by his master, Sir John Chester,
had proposed the burning of The Warren, where Haredale still lived with Emma, his niece, and
Dolly Varden, now her companion.

The crowd agreed gladly, since Haredale was a Catholic and that same day in London had given
evidence to the police against the rioters who had burned the chapels. They rushed away, marched
hastily across the fields, tied the old host of the Maypole Inn to his chair, drank all the
liquor they could find and then rushed to The Warren. There they put the servants to flight,
burst in the doors, staved the wine-casks in the cellar, split up the costly furniture with
hammers and axes and set fire to the building, so that it soon burned to the ground.

Haredale, in London, saw the red glare in the sky and rode post-haste to the place, but found
on his arrival only ruins and ashes. He believed that Emma and Dolly had had time to escape
to safety; but while he was searching the grounds for some sign of them he saw in the starlight
a man hiding in a broken turret.

He drew his sword and advanced. As the figure moved into the light he rushed forward, flung
himself upon him and clutched his throat.

"Villain!" he cried in a terrible voice, "dead and buried as all men supposed, at last, at
last I have you! You, Rudge, slayer of my brother and of his faithful servant! Double murderer
and monster, I arrest you in the name of God!"

Bound and fettered in his carriage, Haredale took Rudge back to London and had him locked in
Newgate Prison.

IV

BARNABY PROSPERS AT LAST

Haredale searched vainly next day for Emma and Dolly Varden. He could not believe they had
lost their lives in the burning building, yet he was filled with anxiety because of their disappearance.
Could he have known what had happened he would have been even more fearful.

Simon Tappertit had seen his chance at last to win for himself the lovely Dolly, who had scorned
him when he was an apprentice of the locksmith. He had bribed Hugh and the hangman to aid him.
While the mob was occupied at the front of the house this precious pair had entered from the
back, seized the two girls and put them into a coach.

This they guarded at a distance till the burning was done; then, with Tappertit on the box
and surrounded by his ruffians, the coach was driven into the city.

Emma had spent the day in the fear that her uncle had been killed with other Catholics in London,
and at this new and surpassing fright she had fainted. Dolly, though no less concerned, had
fought her captors bravely, though vainly. Often in that long ride she wished that Joe, her
vanished lover, were there to rescue her as he had rescued her once from Maypole Hugh.

She had determined when she reached the London streets to scream as loudly as she could for
help; but before they came to the city Hugh climbed into the carriage and sat between them,
threatening to choke either if she made a noise.

In this wise they were driven to a miserable cottage, and in the dirty apartment to which they
were taken Dolly threw herself upon the unconscious Emma and wept pitifully, unmindful of the
jeers of Hugh and of the hangman.

When Tappertit entered the room suddenly, Dolly, not knowing his part in the plot, screamed
with joy and threw herself into his arms crying:

"I knew it! My dear father's at the door! Heaven bless you for rescuing us!"

But she saw in an instant her mistake, when the ridiculous braggart laid his hand on his breast
and told her, now that he no longer was an apprentice but a famous leader of the people, he
had chosen to be her husband. With this announcement he left them.

Meanwhile Mrs. Rudge, day and night, had searched everywhere for Barnaby. In one of the riots
she was injured, and was taken to a hospital, and while she lay there she heard with agony
that her son had been so active in the disturbances that a price had been put by the Government
on his head.

But in his present trouble Barnaby had unexpectedly found an old friend. Joe Willet, just returned
with one empty sleeve from his five years of soldiering in America, had been with the soldiers
in the barracks when Barnaby had been brought there on his way to prison. He soon discovered
who the boy's rioting companions had been and took them word of his plight, for he knew it
meant death to Barnaby unless he escaped.

Maypole Hugh, Tappertit and the hangman were all itching for more disorder, and this news gave
them an excuse. They went out at once and gathered the mob together to attack Newgate Prison
and to release all the prisoners. They themselves led the procession. The house of Varden,
Dolly's father, was on their way; they stopped there, and, in spite of the lusty fight he made,
carried the locksmith with them to compel him to open the prison gates with his tools.

This he refused to do, and they would doubtless have killed him, but for two men who dragged
him from their clutches in the nick of time. These two men were the one-armed Joe and Edward
Chester, just returned from the West Indies, whom the former had met by accident that day.
They took the locksmith to his home, while the raging crowd brought furniture from neighboring
houses and built a bonfire of it to burn down the great prison gate.

From this same mob Haredale himself had a narrow escape. He was staying at a house near by,
which, belonging to a Catholic, was attacked. He tried to escape across the roof, but was recognized
from the street by the giant Hugh. The cellar luckily had a back door opening into a lane,
and with the assistance of Joe and Edward, who had hastened to the rear to aid him, he escaped
that way.

Maypole Hugh, during this terrible time while the mob was burning houses everywhere and the
soldiers firing on the rioters in every quarter of London, seemed to bear a charmed life. He
rode a great brewer's horse and carried an ax, and wherever the fight was thickest there he
was to be found.

Never had such a sight been seen in London as when the prison gate fell and the crowd rushed
from cell to cell, smashing the iron doors to release the prisoners, some of whom, being under
sentence of death, had never expected to be free again. Rudge, the murderer, knowing nothing
of what the uproar meant, suffered tortures, thinking in his guilty fear that the hordes were
howling for his life. When he was finally released and in the open street he found Barnaby
beside him.

They broke off their fetters, and that night took refuge in a shed in a field. Next day Rudge
sent Barnaby to try to find the blind man, his cunning partner, in whose wits he trusted to
help them get away. Barnaby brought the blind man, and brought also Hugh, whom he found wounded
in the street, but in so doing he was seen by Dennis, the hangman.

This villainous sneak, knowing that the daring of the rioters had reached its limit, and that
they must soon be scattered and captured, and thinking to buy pardon for himself by a piece
of treachery, without delay brought soldiers, who surrounded the shed. The blind man, attempting
to run away, was shot dead, and the others, Rudge, Hugh and poor, innocent Barnaby, were captured.

Then, well satisfied with his work, Dennis set out for the house where Simon Tappertit had
confined Emma Haredale and Dolly Varden. The hangman wanted them well out of the way, so they
could not testify that he had helped to burn The Warren and to kidnap them. He had thought
of a plan to have them taken to a boat in the river and conveyed where their friends would
never find them, and to carry them off he chose Gashford, Lord George Gordon's secretary, who
was the more willing as he had fallen in love with Emma's beauty.

But this wicked plan was never to be carried out. The very hour that Gashford came on this
pitiless errand, while he roughly bade Emma prepare to depart, the doors flew open. Men poured
in, led by Edward Chester, who knocked Gashford down; and in another moment Emma was clasped
in her uncle's embrace, and Dolly, laughing and crying at the same time, fell into the arms
of her father. Their place of concealment had been discovered a few hours before, and the three
men had lost no time in planning their capture.

Dennis the hangman, in spite of his previous treachery, caught in the trap, was taken straight-way
to jail, and Simon Tappertit, wounded and raging, watched Dolly's departure from the floor,
where he lay with his wonderful legs, the pride and glory of his life, broken and crushed into
shapeless ugliness. The famous riots were over. Lord George Gordon was a prisoner, hundreds
were being arrested, and London was again growing quiet.

Mrs. Rudge, poor mother! at last found Barnaby where he lay chained in his cell and condemned
to death. Day after day she never left him, while Varden, the locksmith, and Haredale worked
hard for his release. They carried his case even to the King, and at the last moment, while
he rode on his way to execution, his pardon was granted.

Of the rest who died on the scaffold, Rudge, the murderer, was hanged, cursing all men to the
last; Maypole Hugh died glorying in his evil life and with a jest on his lips, and Dennis,
the hangman, was dragged to the gallows cringing and shrieking for mercy.

A few weeks later Emma Haredale was married to Edward Chester and sailed with him back to the
West Indies, where he had established a flourishing business.

Before this, however, his father, Sir John Chester, was well punished for his hard heart and
bad deeds by the discovery that Maypole Hugh, the hostler, was really his own unacknowledged
son, whose mother he had deserted many years before. But even this blow, and the marriage of
his son Edward to the niece of his lifelong enemy, did not soften him. He still hated Haredale
with his old venom and loved to go to the ruins of The Warren and gloat over its destruction.

On one of these visits he met and taunted Haredale beyond all endurance. The two men drew their
swords and fought a duel, which ended by Haredale's running Sir John through the heart. Haredale
left England at once, entered a convent in a foreign country and spent his few remaining years
in penance and remorse.

Lord George Gordon, the poor deluded noble who had been the cause of all this disorder, finally
died, harmless and quite crazy, in Newgate Prison. Simon Tappertit, in spite of his active
part in the riots, was luckier, for he got off with two wooden legs and lived for many years,
a corner boot-black.

Joe, of course, married Dolly Varden, and the locksmith gave her such a generous marriage portion
that he was able to set up in business, succeeding his father as landlord of the old Maypole
Inn, and there they lived long and happily.

Barnaby Rudge, after the death of his father, gradually became more rational and was everywhere
a great favorite with old and young. He and his mother lived always on the Maypole farm, and
there were never two more contented souls than they.

As for Grip, the raven, he soon forgot his jail experience and grew sleek and glossy again.
For a whole year he never uttered a word till one sunny morning he suddenly broke out with,
"I'm a devil, I'm a devil, I'm a devil!" in extraordinary rapture. From that time on he talked
more and more, and as he was only one hundred and fifty years old when Barnaby was gray headed
(a mere infant for a raven) he is very probably talking yet.

THE PERSONAL HISTORY OF DAVID COPPERFIELD

Published 1849-1850

Scene: London, Yarmouth, Dover and the Country

Time: 1812 to 1842

CHARACTERS

    David Copperfield                             A fatherless boy

    Miss Betsy Trotwood                                   His aunt

    Peggotty                                             His nurse

    Mr. Murdstone                                   His stepfather

    Miss Murdstone                          Mr. Murdstone's sister

    Mr. Peggotty                                       A fisherman
                           Peggotty's brother

    Ham                                               Their nephew

    Mrs. Gummidge         The widow of Mr. Peggotty's dead partner

    "Little Em'ly"                         Peggotty's orphan niece

    Barkis                                           A cart driver
                       Later, Peggotty's husband

    Mr. Creakle                       Proprietor of a boys' school

    Tommy Traddles   }
                     }          Schoolmates and friends of David's
    James Steerforth }

    Mr. Micawber                        A London friend of David's
               Always "waiting for something to turn up"

    "Mr. Dick"                         A simple-minded relative of
                                          Miss Betsy Trotwood's

    Mr. Wickfield                              Miss Betsy's lawyer

    Agnes                                             His daughter

    Uriah Heep                                           His clerk
                         Later, his partner

    Doctor Strong                    David's schoolmaster in Dover

    Dora Spenlow                  The daughter of David's employer
                                           and his "child-wife"

DAVID COPPERFIELD

I

DAVID'S EARLY UPS AND DOWNS

There was once a little boy by the name of David Copperfield, whose father had died before
he was born. The night he was born his great-aunt, Miss Betsy Trotwood--a grim lady with a
black cap tied under her chin and a great gold watch chain--came to the house to ask his mother
to name the baby, which she took for granted was a girl, after her; but as soon as she found
it was a boy she flounced out in anger and never came back again.

The first thing David remembered was living in a big country house in England with his pretty,
golden-haired mother and with Peggotty, his nurse, a red-faced, kindly woman, with a habit
of wearing her dresses so tight that whenever she hugged him some buttons would fly off the
back. He loved his mother dearly--so dearly that when a tall, handsome man named Murdstone
began to come to see her in the evenings David was jealous and sad. Mr. Murdstone acted as
if he liked him, and even took him riding on his horse; but there was something in his face
that David could not like.

One summer day David was sent off with Peggotty for a two weeks' visit to her brother's house
in Yarmouth. Yarmouth was a queer fishing town on the sea-coast, and the house they went to
was the queerest thing in it. It was made of an old barge, drawn up high and dry on the beach.
It had a chimney on one side and little windows, and there were sea-shells around the door.
David's room was in the stern, and the window was the hole which the rudder had once passed
through. Everything smelled of salt water and lobsters, and David thought it was the most wonderful
house in the world.

He soon made friends with the family--Mr. Peggotty, a big fisherman with a laugh like a gale
of wind; Ham, his nephew, a big, overgrown boy who carried David from the coach on his back,
and Mrs. Gummidge, who was the widow of Mr. Peggotty's drowned partner.

And, last of all, there was a beautiful little girl with curly hair and a string of blue beads
around her neck whom they called Little Em'ly. She was an orphan niece of Peggotty's. None
of these people belonged to Mr. Peggotty, but, though he was only a poor fisherman himself,
he was so kind that he gave them all a home. David played with little Em'ly, and went out in
the boat with Mr. Peggotty, and enjoyed his visit greatly, though he grew anxious to see his
mother again.

He had no idea what had happened to her till he got back home with Peggotty. Then he found
why he had been sent off on his visit. While he was away his mother had married Mr. Murdstone.

David found things sadly altered after this. Mr. Murdstone was a hard, cruel master. He cared
nothing for the little boy and was harsh to him in everything. He even took away David's own
cozy bedroom and made him sleep in a gloomy chamber. When he was sad Mr. Murdstone called him
obstinate and locked him up and forbade his mother to pet or comfort him.

David's mother loved him, but she loved her new husband, too, and it was a most unhappy state
of things. To make it worse, Mr. Murdstone's sister came to live with them. She was an unlovely
old maid with big black eyebrows, and liked David no better than her brother did.

After this there were no more pleasant hours of sitting with his mother or walking with her
to church, for Mr. Murdstone and his sister kept them apart. The only happy moments David spent
were in a little upper room where there was a collection of books left by his dead father.
He got some comfort from reading these.

Mr. Murdstone made David's mother give him hard tasks and lessons to do, and when David recited
them he and his sister both sat and listened. To feel their presence and disapproval confused
the little fellow so much that even when he knew his lesson he failed.

One day when he came to recite he saw Mr. Murdstone finishing the handle of a whip he had been
making. This frightened him so that he could scarcely remember a word. Mr. Murdstone grasped
him then and led him to his room to whip him.

Poor little David was so terrified that he hardly knew what he was doing, and in his agony
and terror, while the merciless blows were falling, he seized the hand that held him and bit
it as hard as he could. Mr. Murdstone then beat him almost to death and locked him in the room.

He was kept there for five days with only bread and milk to eat. Every day he was taken down
for family prayers and then taken back again, and during prayers he was made to sit in a corner
where he could not even see his mother's face. He had to sit all day long with nothing to do
but think of Mr. Peggotty's house-boat and of little Em'ly and wish he was there. The last
night Peggotty, his nurse, crept up and whispered through the keyhole that Mr. Murdstone was
going to send him away the next day to a school near London.

The next morning he started in a carrier's cart. His mother was so much in awe of Mr. Murdstone
that she hardly dared kiss David good-by, and he saw nothing of Peggotty. But as he was crying,
Peggotty came running from behind a hedge and jumped into the cart and hugged him so hard that
all the buttons flew off the back of her dress.

The man who drove the cart was named Barkis. He seemed to be very much taken with Peggotty,
and after she had gone back David told him all about her. Before they parted he made David
promise to write her a message for him. It was a very short message--"Barkis is willin'." David
didn't know in the least what the driver meant, but he promised, and he sent the message in
his very first letter.

Probably Peggotty knew what he meant, though, for before David came back again Mr. Barkis and
she were courting. However, that has not much to do with this part of the story.

The school to which Mr. Murdstone had sent him was a bare building with gratings on all the
windows like a prison, and a high brick wall around it. It was owned by a man named Creakle,
who had begun by raising hops, and had gone into the school business because he had lost all
of his own and his wife's money and had no other way to live. He was fat and spoke always in
a whisper, and he was so cruel and bad-tempered that not only the boys, but his wife, too,
was terribly afraid of him.

He nearly twisted David's ear off the first day, and he made one of the teachers tie a placard
to David's back (this, he said, was by Mr. Murdstone's order) which read:

    |                    |
    |  TAKE CARE OF HIM  |
    |      HE BITES      |
    ||

To have to wear this before everybody made David sorrowful and ashamed, but luckily a good-natured
boy named Tommy Traddles, who liked David's looks, said it was a shame to make him wear it,
and as Tommy Traddles was very popular, all the other boys said it was a shame, too. So, beyond
calling him "Towser" for a few days, and saying "Lie down, sir!" as if he were a dog, they
did not make much fun of him while he wore it.

Besides Tommy Traddles, David liked best the head boy, James Steerforth--the oldest boy in
the school, and the only one Creakle did not dare beat or mistreat. Steerforth took David under
his wing and helped him with his lessons, while in return David used to tell him stories from
the books he had read.

What with the beatings and tasks, David was glad enough when vacation time came. But his home-coming
was anything but pleasant. He found his mother with a little baby, and she looked careworn and ill.

Mr. Murdstone, he saw at once, hated him as much as ever, and Miss Murdstone would not let
him even so much as touch his baby brother. He was forbidden to sit in the kitchen with Peggotty,
and when he crept away to the upper room with the books Mr. Murdstone called him sullen and
obstinate. David was so miserable every day that he was almost glad to bid his mother good-by,
and as he rode away, to look back at her as she stood there at the gate holding up her baby
for David to see.

That was the last picture David carried in his heart of his pretty mother. One day not long
after, he was called from the school-room to the parlor, and there Mr. Creakle told him that
his mother was dead and that the baby had died, too.

David reached home the next day. Peggotty took him into her arms at the door and called his
mother her "dear, poor pretty," and comforted him, but he was very sad. It seemed to him that
life could never be bright again.

After the funeral Miss Murdstone discharged Peggotty and, probably not knowing what else to
do with him, let David go with the faithful old servant down to the old house-boat at Yarmouth,
where he had been visiting when his mother was married to Mr. Murdstone.

The wonderful house on the beach was just the same. Mr. Peggotty and Ham and Mrs. Gummidge
were still there, with everything smelling just as usual of salt water and lobsters; and little
Em'ly was there, too, grown to be quite a big girl. It seemed, somehow, like coming back to
a dear old quiet home, where nothing changed and where all was restful and good.

But this happiness was not to last. David had to go home again, and there it was worse than
ever. He was utterly neglected. He was sent to no school, taught nothing, allowed to make no
friends. And at last Mr. Murdstone, as if he could think of nothing worse, apprenticed him
as a chore boy in a warehouse in London.

The building where David now was compelled to work was on a wharf on the river bank, and was
dirty and dark and overrun with rats. Here he had to labor hard for bare living wages, among
rough boys and rougher men, with no counselor, hearing their coarse oaths about him, and fearing
that one day he would grow up to be no better than they. He was given a bedroom in the house
of a Mr. Micawber, and this man was, in his way, a friend.

There was never a better-hearted man than Mr. Micawber, but he seemed to be always unlucky.
He had a head as bald as an egg, wore a tall, pointed collar, and carried for ornament an eye-glass
which he never used. He never had any money, was owing everybody who would lend him any, and
was always, as he said, "waiting for something to turn up." With this exception David had not
a friend in London, and finally Mr. Micawber himself was put in prison for debt, and his relatives,
who paid his debts to release him, did so on condition that he leave London. So at length David
had not even this one friend.

David bore this friendless and wretched life as long as he could, but at length he felt that
he could stay at the warehouse no longer and made up his mind to run away.

The only one in the world he could think of who might help him was--whom do you think? His
great-aunt, Miss Betsy Trotwood, who had left his mother's house the night he was born because
he did not happen to be a girl. She was the only real relative he had in the world.

She lived, Peggotty had told him, in Dover, and that was seventy miles away; but the distance
did not daunt him. So one day he put all his things into a box and hired a boy with a cart
to take it to the coach office. But the boy robbed him of all the money he had (a gold piece
Peggotty had sent him) and drove off with his box besides, and poor David, crying, set out
afoot, without a penny, in the direction he thought Dover lay.

That evening he sold his waistcoat to a clothes-dealer for a few pennies, and when night came
he slept on the ground, under the walls of Mr. Creakle's old school where he had known Steerforth
and Tommy Traddles. The next day he offered his jacket for sale to a half-crazy old store-keeper,
who took the coat but would not pay him at first, and David had to sit all day on the door-step
before the other would give him the money.

The next four nights he slept under haystacks, greatly in fear of tramps, and at length, on
the sixth day, ragged, sunburned, dusty and almost dead from weariness, he got to Dover.

He had to ask many people before he could find out where Miss Betsy Trotwood lived. It was
outside the town, in a cottage with a little garden. Here she lived all alone, except for a
simple-minded old man, whom she called Mr. Dick, who was a relative of hers, and who did nothing
all day but fly big kites and write petitions to the king, which he began every morning and
never finished. All the neighbors thought Miss Betsy Trotwood a most queer old woman, but those
who knew her best knew that she had a very kind heart under her grim appearance.

When David reached the house Miss Betsy was digging at some flowers in the garden. All she
saw was a ragged, dirty little boy, and she called out, without even turning her head: "Go
away; no boys here!"

But David was so wretched that he went right in at the gate and went up behind her and said:
"If you please, aunt, I'm your nephew."

His aunt was so startled at his looks and at what he said, that she sat down plump on the ground;
and David, his misery getting all at once the better of him, sobbed out all the pitiful tale
of his wrongs and sorrows since his mother had died.

Miss Betsy Trotwood's heart was touched. She seized David by the collar, led him into the house,
made him drink something and then made him lie down on the sofa while she fed him hot broth.
Then she had a warm bath prepared, and at last, very tired and comfortable, and wrapped up
in a big shawl, David fell asleep on the sofa.

That night he was put to bed in a clean room, and before he slept he prayed that he might never
be homeless and friendless again.

II

LITTLE EM'LY

Good fortune was with David now. His aunt wrote to Mr. Murdstone, and he and his sister came,
fully expecting to take the boy back with them, but, instead, Miss Betsy told Mr. Murdstone
plainly that he was a stony-hearted hypocrite, who had broken his wife's heart and tortured
her son, and she ordered him and his sister from the house. David was so delighted at this
that he threw his arms around her neck and kissed her, and from that moment Miss Betsy Trotwood
began to love him as if he had been her own son.

David loved her in return. He drove out with her and helped Mr. Dick fly his kites and was
very grateful. And at length his aunt placed him in a school in Dover and found him pleasant
lodgings there in the house of her lawyer, Mr. Wickfield.

It was a different sort of school from what his first had been. His teacher was a Doctor Strong,
and the school-boys were not the frightened, ill-treated lot he had known at Mr. Creakle's
house. He was happy there, but his happiest hours of all were those spent, after school was
out, at Mr. Wickfield's. The lawyer had an only daughter, Agnes, just David's age, a sweet,
gentle girl, who seemed to live for her father, and whom David came to consider before long
almost as a sister.

One person connected with the lawyer's household whom he did not like so well was Uriah Heep.
Heep was a high-shouldered, red-headed, bony young man, with no eyebrows or eyelashes, and
with long skeleton fingers. He dressed all in black, and his hands were clammy and cold, like
a fish, so that it chilled one to touch them. He never smiled--the nearest he could come to
it was to make two creases down his cheeks. He was always cringing and pretending to be humble,
but really he was a sneak and a scoundrel at heart. David detested him without knowing why,
the more so when he came to see that Heep was gaining an influence over Agnes's father. All
the while, too, Heep pretended to like David, though David knew very well he did not.

So time went on. David studied hard and was a favorite with both pupils and teachers. At length
he was head boy himself, and at seventeen his school life was finished.

He parted regretfully from Doctor Strong and from Agnes, and after paying his aunt, Miss Betsy
Trotwood, a visit, he started off to Yarmouth to see his old nurse, now the wife of Barkis,
the driver, and just as fond of David as ever. On his way through London, as it happened, David
met the old school-fellow whom he had so liked, James Steerforth, and, loath to part with him
so quickly, he proposed that the latter accompany him to Yarmouth.

Steerforth agreed and they went together. They took dinner at Peggotty's and spent the first
evening in the old house-boat, where Mr. Peggotty still lived with Ham and Mrs. Gummidge and
little Em'ly, the latter now grown to be a lovely girl and engaged to marry Ham. They spent
some weeks there, each amusing himself in his own way, and soon Steerforth was as popular as
David had always been, for he sang beautifully and talked entertainingly, and all, from Mr.
Peggotty to little Em'ly, thought they had never seen so brilliant and handsome a lad.

If David could have read the thoughts that were in Steerforth's mind he would have grieved
that he had ever brought him to that peaceful, innocent spot. For Steerforth had changed since
the old school-days when David had been so fond of him. He had learned wickedness, and now,
while he was exerting himself in every way to make the Peggottys like and admire him, in his
heart he was trying to fascinate little Em'ly and to steal her love that she had given to Ham,
till she would leave her home and run away with him to a foreign country. This, however, David
could not guess, nor could any of the others, who regretted when the two friends' visit was over.

Now that his school-days were finished David's aunt had planned for him to study law in an
office in London, and accordingly David began his new life there, very near the street where
he had once toiled, a wretched, friendless helper, in the dirty warehouse on the dock. He found
Tommy Traddles, who had stood his friend at Mr. Creakle's school, studying now to be a lawyer
also, and boarding, curiously enough, at the house of Mr. Micawber, who had drifted back to
London, still as poor and as hopeful as ever and still "waiting for something to turn up."

In spite of these and all his new acquaintances, David was very lonely at first and missed
Agnes, who all through his life at Doctor Strong's school had been his friend and adviser.

He saw her once when she was visiting in London, and then she had bad news to tell him; her
father had been steadily failing in health and business, and little by little Uriah Heep, his
red-headed clerk with the clammy hands, had got him and his affairs into his power and made
himself a partner in the firm. David guessed that Heep had planned to entrap her father so
as to compel Agnes herself to marry him, and this suspicion made David despise the clerk more
and more. But he knew of no way to help.

All this time he often saw Steerforth, but never guessed how often the latter had been secretly
to see little Em'ly or of the wicked part he was playing. But one day David heard that Barkis,
Peggotty's husband (whose early courtship he himself had aided when he took her the message
"Barkis is willin'") had died, and David went at once to Yarmouth to try to comfort his old
nurse in her loss.

While he was there the blow came which caused such sorrow to all who lived in the old house-boat.
Little Em'ly, the pride and joy of Mr. Peggotty's tender heart, ran away with Steerforth.

She left a letter, begging them to forgive her, especially her uncle, Mr. Peggotty--and bidding
them all good-by. It broke Mr. Peggotty's heart, and Ham's, too. And David was scarcely less
sorrowful. Because, for what he had done, Steerforth, whose friendship had been so much to
him, could never be his friend again.

But nothing could change Mr. Peggotty's love for little Em'ly. He determined to start out and
search throughout the world for her; and, meantime, Ham and Mrs. Gummidge were to stay there
in the old home, to keep it looking just the same, with a lighted candle in the window every
night, so that if little Em'ly by any chance came back it would be bright and warm to welcome
her. Mr. Peggotty's parting words to David were:

"I'm a-going to seek her far and wide. If any hurt should come to me, remember that the last
word I left for her was, 'My unchanged love is with my darling child, and I forgive her.'"

III

DAVID AND HIS CHILD-WIFE

Though Agnes always held a large place in his heart, David was very impressionable. In the
next few years he thought himself in love a good many times, but when finally he met Dora Spenlow,
the daughter of one of the members of the law firm with which he was studying, he knew that
all his other love-affairs had been only fancies. Dora was blue-eyed, with cheeks like a pink
sea-shell, and looked like a fairy. David fell head over ears in love with her the first time
he ever saw her. He lost his appetite, and took to wearing tight gloves and shoes too small
for him, and he used to put on his best clothes and walk around her house in the moonlight
and do other extravagant things.

They found a good deal of trouble in their love-making, for Dora was under the care of none
other than the terrible sister of Mr. Murdstone, who had made David so miserable in his childhood,
but he and Dora used to meet sometimes, and they sent each other letters through one of Dora's
girl friends. David, perhaps, would not have done this if he had thought he would have a fair
chance to win Dora; but with his old enemy, Miss Murdstone, against him, he was afraid to tell
her father of his love. But one day he told it to Dora, and she promised to marry him.

Good luck, however, never comes without a bit of bad luck. Soon after this David came home
to his rooms one night to find his aunt, Miss Betsy Trotwood, there, with her trunk and Mr.
Dick, kites and all. She told David she had no other place to go; that she had lost all of
her money and was quite ruined.

This was misfortune indeed, for it seemed to put his hope of marrying Dora a great deal further
away; but David faced the situation bravely and began at once to look for something to do outside
of the law office to earn money enough to support them all.

In this trouble Agnes was his true friend. He had written her already of his love for Dora
and she had advised him. Through her now he found employment as secretary to his old schoolmaster,
Doctor Strong, who had given up the school at Dover and had moved to London. He told Dora,
of course, all about his changed prospects, but Dora was like a little butterfly who knew only
how to fly about among flowers; she hardly knew what poverty meant, and thought he was scolding
when he told her.

David worked hard in the morning at Doctor Strong's, in the afternoons at the law office, and
in the evenings he studied shorthand so he might come to be a newspaper reporter. And all this
while he wrote to Dora every day.

It was one of these letters that at last betrayed their secret. Dora dropped it from her pocket
and Miss Murdstone picked it up. She showed it to Dora's father and he sent at once for David
and told him angrily that he could never marry his child and that he must not see Dora any
more. And David went home disconsolate.

This might have ended their engagement for ever, but that same day Dora's father dropped dead
of heart-disease. Instead of being rich he was found to have left no money at all, and Dora
was taken to live with two aunts on the outskirts of London. David did not know what was best
to do now, so he went to Dover to ask Agnes's advice.

He was shocked at the changes he found there. Her father looked ill and scarcely seemed himself.
Uriah Heep, his new partner, with his ugly, fawning way and clammy hands, was living in their
house and eating with them at their table. He had obtained more and more power over Mr. Wickfield
and gloried in it. And the other seemed no longer to dare to oppose Uriah in anything.

But in spite of all this, Agnes talked bravely and cheerfully with David. Under her direction,
he wrote a letter to Dora's aunts, declaring his love and asking permission to call, and they,
pleased with his frankness, gave their permission. Before the year was out David began to earn
money with his shorthand, reporting speeches in Parliament for a newspaper. He had discovered
besides that he could write stories that the magazines were glad to buy. So one day David married
Dora and they went to housekeeping in a tiny house of their own.

Life seemed very sweet to them both, though Dora, while she was the most loving little wife
in the world, knew no more about housekeeping than a bird. The servants stole the silver spoons,
and the storekeepers overcharged them, and the house was never tidy or comfortable. For a while
David tried to make Dora learn these things, but when he chid her the tears would come, and
she would throw her arms around his neck and sob that she was only his child-wife after all,
and he would end by kissing her and telling her not to mind. She was most like a beautiful
toy; and like a toy, she seemed made only to play with, just as she played with her dog Jip,
instead of helping and encouraging David in his work.

But at length Dora fell ill--so ill that they knew she was too frail and weak to get well and
strong again. David carried her down stairs every day, and every day the burden grew lighter.
She never complained, but called him her poor, dear boy, and one day she whispered that she
was only his child-wife and could never have been more, so that it was better as it was!

Agnes came, and was there when Dora died. But for her comfort all the world would have been
blank for poor David as he sat alone, longing for the child-wife who could never be his again!

IV

DAVID FINDS ALL WELL AT LAST

More than once during this life of David's with his child-wife he had seen Mr. Peggotty. The
brave old man had searched Europe for little Em'ly in vain; then he had come back to London,
feeling somehow that some day she would stray there. He used to walk the streets by night,
looking at every face he passed. In the room where he lived he kept a candle always lighted
and one of her dresses hanging on a chair for her.

After Dora's death David joined in the search, and at length they did find poor little Em'ly.
Steerforth had treated her cruelly and finally deserted her, and she had crept back to London
heartbroken and repentant, hoping for nothing but to die within sight of those who had loved
her so.

But nothing had dimmed Mr. Peggotty's love. Wretched as she was, he caught her in his arms,
held her to his breast as he had done so often when she was a child, and told her she was still
his own little Em'ly, just as she had always been.

She was ill, but he nursed her back to health. Then he went to Yarmouth to fetch Mrs. Gummidge,
and they and the little Em'ly that had been found took passage for Australia, where they might
forget the dark past and find happiness in a new life.

But before they sailed fate had brought to naught the villainous plot that had been woven by
Uriah Heep about Agnes and her father. And the one whom they had most to thank for this was
Mr. Micawber.

Heep had met Mr. Micawber once, when the latter, as usual, was in money difficulties, and,
thinking to make a tool of him, had hired him for his clerk. Little by little Heep had then
got the other into his debt, till Mr. Micawber saw no prospect before him but the debtors' prison.

Threatening him with this, Heep tried to compel him to do various bits of dirty and dishonest
work, at which the other's soul revolted until at length he made up his mind to expose his
employer. So, pretending obedience, Mr. Micawber wormed himself into all of the sneaking Heep's
affairs, found out the evidence of his guilt, and finally taking all the books and papers from
the office safe, sent for David and his friend Tommy Traddles and told them all he had discovered.
They found it was by forgery that Heep had got Agnes's father into his power in the first place,
and that among others whom he had robbed was David's aunt, Miss Betsy Trotwood, whose fortune
he had stolen.

David and Tommy Traddles sent for Miss Betsy and for Agnes and her father, and they faced Uriah
all together. He tried to brazen it out, but when he saw the empty safe he knew that all was
known. They told him the only way he could save himself from prison was by giving back the
business to Agnes's father, just as it had been years before, when David had lived there, and
by restoring to Miss Betsy Trotwood every cent he had robbed her of. This he did with no very
good grace and with an especial curse for David, whom he seemed to blame for it all.

In reward for Mr. Micawber's good services, Miss Betsy and Agnes's father paid off all his
debts and gave him money enough to take him and his family to Australia. They sailed in the
same vessel that carried Mr. Peggotty and little Em'ly.

Before it sailed little Em'ly had written a letter to Ham, whose promised wife she had been
before she ran away with Steerforth, begging his forgiveness, and this letter she had asked
David to give him after they had gone. Accordingly one day he went to Yarmouth to do this.

That night a terrible storm arose. The wind was so strong that it uprooted trees and threw
down chimneys and rolled waves mountain high on the sand where stood the old deserted house-boat
of the Peggottys. Next morning David was awakened with the news that a Spanish ship had gone
ashore and was fast going to pieces, and he ran to the beach, where all the town was gathered.

He could see the doomed vessel plainly where the surf broke over her. Her masts had snapped
short off and at every wave she rolled and beat the sand as if she would pound herself to fragments.
Several figures were clinging to the broken masts, and one by one the waves beat them off,
and they went down for ever.

At length but one was left, and he held on so long that a shout of encouragement went up from
the throng. At this Ham, the bravest and strongest of all the hardy boatmen there, tied a rope
about his waist and plunged into the sea to try to save him. But it was not to be. The same
huge wave that dashed the vessel to pieces threw the rescuer back on the sand, dead. The body
of the man he had tried to save was washed ashore, too, and it was that of James Steerforth,
who had so wronged little Em'ly!

So poor, great-souled Ham died, honest and faithful to the last, giving his life for the man
who had injured him. And so, too, James Steerforth met his fate on the very spot where he had
done such evil, for his corpse was found among the fragments of the old Peggotty house-boat,
which the tempest tore down that night.

After this David went abroad and stayed three years. He lived in Switzerland, and wrote novels
that were printed in London and made him famous there.

And now, alone, he had time to think of all that made up his past. He thought of Dora, his
child-wife, and sorrowed for her, and of the Peggottys and little Em'ly; but most of all he
found himself thinking of Agnes, who, throughout his youth, had seemed like his guiding star.

So one day he went back to England and told her, and asked her if she would marry him. And
with her sweet face on his breast she whispered that she had loved him all her life!

David and Agnes lived long and happily, and their children had three guardians who loved them
all--Miss Betsy Trotwood, David's old nurse, Peggotty, and white-haired Mr. Dick, who taught
them to fly kites and thought them the greatest children in the world. Tommy Traddles, when
he had become a famous lawyer, often visited them, and once, too, Mr. Peggotty, older, but
still hale and strong, came back from Australia to tell them how he had prospered and grown
rich, and had always his little Em'ly beside him, and how Mr. Micawber had ceased to owe everybody
money and had become a magistrate, and many other things.

David had one thing, however, to tell Mr. Peggotty, and that was of a certain prisoner he had
seen in one of the country's greatest prisons, sentenced for life for an attempt to rob the
Bank of England, and whose name was--Uriah Heep.

GREAT EXPECTATIONS

Published 1860-1861

Scene: London, Neighboring Towns and the Country

Time: 1830 to 1860

CHARACTERS

    Philip Pirrip                                    An orphan boy
                           Known as "Pip"

    Joe Gargery                                       A blacksmith

    "Mrs. Joe"                                            His wife
                            Pip's sister

    Uncle Pumblechook                          Joe's pompous uncle

    Wopsle                             Clerk of the village church
                           Later, an actor

    Orlick                                      A workman of Joe's

    Biddy              A girl friend of Pip's and Mrs. Joe's nurse
                          Later, Joe's wife

    Abel Magwitch                                        A convict

    Miss Havisham             An eccentric woman once disappointed
                                                        in love

    Estella                                               Her ward
                    In reality, Magwitch's daughter

    Compeyson           Miss Havisham's former suitor and deceiver
                                A convict

    Mr. Jaggers                      Lawyer for Miss Havisham and
                                                  for Magwitch

    Wemmick                                             His clerk

    Mr. Pocket                                        Pip's tutor

    Mrs. Pocket                                          His wife

    Herbert Pocket               His son. Pip's comrade in London

GREAT EXPECTATIONS

I

PIP AND THE CONVICT

In England, in a lonely village not far from London, there once lived a little orphan boy named
Philip Pirrip, whom everybody called, for short, "Pip." His parents had died when he was a
baby, and he had been brought up by his older sister, the wife of Joe Gargery, a blacksmith
whose forge looked out across wide marshes and a river that flowed through them.

Joe, the blacksmith, was a fair-faced man with flaxen whiskers and very bright blue eyes.

Very different, indeed, was "Mrs. Joe," as everybody spoke of her. She was tall and bony and
had black hair, a red skin and a continual habit of scolding. She may have loved Pip in her
way, but that way was a very cross-grained one. She treated Joe, the big blacksmith, and Pip,
the little boy, just alike, and they were both equally in dread of her. This made them quite
like partners. Whenever Pip came into the house he used to look at Joe's fingers; if Joe crossed
them that was a sign Mrs. Joe was cross and that Pip was to look out for himself.

Joe had an uncle named Pumblechook, who was a corn seller in the next town and a pompous old
hypocrite. He had a way of standing Pip before him, rumpling up his hair and asking him hard
questions out of the multiplication table. And whenever he told a story of any one who was
ungrateful or wicked he would glower at Pip in a way that made him feel very uncomfortable.

Another who came as often and was almost as dismal to see was Wopsle, the clerk, who read the
lesson in church every Sunday. He had an idea he would make a great actor and used to recite
whole pages from Shakespeare when he could find any one to listen to him.

Worst of all was a workman of Joe's named Orlick. He was a loose-limbed, swarthy, slouching
giant with a hangdog look. He used to tell Pip that the devil lived in a certain corner of
the forge, and once in every seven years the fire had to be rekindled with a live boy. Orlick
at heart disliked everybody--especially harmless little Pip--and often quarreled with Mrs. Joe.

Beside the blacksmith, the only one who understood Pip was a little girl named Biddy, about
his own age and an orphan, too. She liked him and used to help him with his lessons at school.

But in spite of Joe and Biddy, Pip was sometimes so lonely and miserable that he would steal
off alone to the village churchyard, where his father and mother lay buried, to cry.

One afternoon--it was the day before Christmas--Pip was more wretched than usual, and was sitting
crying among the graves when suddenly a rough voice spoke behind him. "Keep still, you little
imp!" it said, "or I'll cut your throat!" With the words a man rose up from behind a tombstone
and seized him.

He was a fearful-looking man, dressed all in gray clothes, with a great iron band riveted on
his leg. His shoes were torn, he had no hat and wore a ragged, dirty handkerchief tied around
his head. He was soaked with water, caked with mud and limped and shivered as he walked. He
set Pip on a tombstone and tilted him so far back that the church steeple seemed to turn a
somersault, growling at him in a terrible voice.

Pip had never been so frightened in his life. With a trembling voice he begged his captor to
spare him. The man asked him his name and where he lived, and told him he would let him go
on one condition. He had to promise to come next morning at daybreak to a certain spot in the
marshes and to bring a file and something to eat. And the man said if Pip did not do so, or
if he told any one what he was going to do, he would catch him again and cut out his heart
and eat it.

This terrible threat frightened poor little Pip more than ever. His voice shook so that he
could hardly promise, and when the man set him down he ran home as fast as his legs would carry
him.

The evening was a miserable one. Pip thought he would save his own supper for the man in case
he should not be able to get into his sister's pantry, so instead of eating his bread and butter
he slipped it down his trouser-leg.

Before long a great gun began to boom, and he asked Joe what it was. The blacksmith told him
that in the river across the marshes were anchored some big hulks of ships, like wicked Noah's
arks, where convicts were kept prisoners, and that the gun was a signal that some of these
convicts had escaped. Then Pip knew the man he had promised to help was a criminal--perhaps
a murderer--who had got away and was hiding from the soldiers.

All night he did not sleep. He hated to steal the food, but he felt certain he would be killed
if he did not. So at dawn he slipped down stairs, got a file from the forge, unlocked the pantry,
took some bread and cheese and a pork pie that Uncle Pumblechook had sent for Christmas dinner,
and ran out through the foggy morning to the marshes.

He had not got quite there when he came on a man in gray, sitting on the ground, with an iron
fetter on his leg. Pip thought he was the one he was in search of, but as soon as the other
turned his face he saw by a bruise on the cheek that he was not. This second man in gray, as
soon as he saw him, sprang to his feet and ran away.

Greatly wondering, Pip went on, and at the right spot he found the man who had frightened him
in the graveyard. He seemed now to be almost starved, for he snatched the food and ate it like
a hungry dog. He asked Pip if he had seen any one else on his way there, and Pip told him of
the other man in gray who also wore an iron on his leg.

He asked Pip to describe the other, and when Pip told of the bruised cheek, the man he was
feeding flew into a rage. He began to curse, and, seizing the file, set to filing like mad
at his fetter. Pip could see that he hated the other convict, and was sorry he had escaped;
but he had fulfilled his promise now, so he turned and ran home again, and the last thing he
heard was the rasp of the file as the man worked madly at the iron.

Very guilty Pip felt all that Christmas morning. He went to church with Joe, and after service
Uncle Pumblechook, Wopsle, the clerk, and other company came to dinner. He could not enjoy
the good things to eat, for he knew now his sister must discover that the pork pie was gone.
Just as she went to get it he got up from the table to run away, but as he opened the door
he ran plump into a file of soldiers.

He was sure at first they had come to arrest him for helping the convict, but he was soon relieved,
when the officer at their head explained that they were on their way to search the marshes
for the escaped men and wanted the blacksmith to mend a broken handcuff.

In the flurry of their arrival the pork pie was forgotten, while Joe mended the handcuff in
the forge. When the soldiers left, the blacksmith set Pip on his broad shoulder, and he and
Wopsle went striding with them to see the result of the hunt.

It was sunset as the party entered the marshes, and the searchers opened out into a wide line.
On a sudden all stopped, for a confused shouting had come from the distance. They ran toward
it, cocking their guns, and Wopsle and Joe, with Pip on his shoulder, followed. The shouts
became plainer and plainer. All at once they came to a ditch and in it the convict Pip had
fed and the one with the bruised cheek were struggling fiercely together.

The soldiers seized and handcuffed them both, the man with the bruised cheek pale and trembling,
the other boasting that he had dragged the man he hated back to captivity, even though it cost
him his own freedom.

While the soldiers were preparing to take their prisoners back, Pip's convict saw the boy standing
there with Joe. Pip hoped he would not think he had had anything to do with bringing the soldiers.
He was pretty sure the man did not, because he presently told the officer, in every one's hearing,
that the night before he had broken into a house where a blacksmith lived, near a church, and
had stolen a pork pie. Joe heard this and so Pip knew that he himself would be clear of any blame.

The convicts were taken back to their cells and Joe and Pip went home to tell the company of
their adventure. But neither then nor ever afterward did Pip find courage to tell Joe the part
he had played; for Pip loved the honest blacksmith and did not want him to think him worse
than he really was.

Time went on and Pip grew older and bigger, and though he never forgot the adventure of the
churchyard, yet the memory of it grew dimmer. In the next few years only one thing happened
to recall it to him.

One evening Mrs. Joe sent Pip to the village inn, The Three Jolly Bargemen, with a message.
Pip found Joe there, sitting with a stranger--a secret-looking man, who held his head on one
side and kept one eye perpetually shut as if he were taking aim with a gun. This man, when
he heard Pip's name, looked at him with a curious wink, and when no one but Pip was looking
he took out of his pocket, to stir his drink with, the very file Pip had stolen from Joe's forge.

Pip knew that minute that the man was a friend of the convict he had aided. When Pip left the
inn the stranger called him back and gave him a shilling wrapped up in a piece of paper.

When he got home Mrs. Joe (who took the prize away from him) discovered that the piece of paper
was in reality two bank-notes, and both Joe and she wondered at it. The blacksmith tried next
day to find the stranger to restore the money, but he had left the inn.

So it always remained a mystery--to all but Pip of course, who knew in his heart that the convict
had remembered his aid and had taken this means of repaying him.

II

THE QUEER MISS HAVISHAM

One day, when Pip was considerably older, Uncle Pumblechook brought Mrs. Joe word that a Miss
Havisham, a lady who lived in his own town, had heard of Pip, and wanted him to come to her
house to see her.

Miss Havisham was a very queer lady, indeed; so queer that some said she was crazy. But she
was rich, and for this reason Mrs. Joe scrubbed Pip and dressed him in his best clothes and
sent him off in care of Uncle Pumblechook, who took him as far as Miss Havisham's gate.

Miss Havisham, when a beautiful young lady, had been engaged to marry a man named Compeyson,
whom she loved very much. He was a wicked, heartless villain, however, and had made her love
him only that he might persuade her to give him great sums of money.

The marriage day finally was fixed, her wedding-clothes were bought, the house was decorated
for the ceremony, the bride-cake was put on the table in the dining-room and the guests arrived.
But Compeyson, the bridegroom, did not come.

Miss Havisham was dressing for the wedding when she received a cruel note from him telling
her he did not intend to marry her. She had put on her white wedding gown and her lace veil
and one of her satin slippers--the other lay on the dressing-table. It was exactly twenty minutes
to nine o'clock when she read the note.

She fainted and afterward lay for a long time ill. When she recovered she laid the whole place
waste. She never afterward let the light of day into the old mansion. The shutters were closed,
candles were kept always lighted, and all the clocks in the house were stopped at exactly twenty
minutes to nine o'clock. Not a thing in any room was changed. The bride-cake rotted on the
table, the decorations faded on the walls, and day after day Miss Havisham sat in the dressing-room
clad in her wedding gown and veil, with one slipper on, the dead flowers on her table and the
trunks for her wedding journey scattered about half-packed. In time she became shrunken and
old and the white satin and lace became faded yellow, but she never varied this habit of life.

Soon after her love disappointment she had written to her lawyer in London, who was named Jaggers,
asking him to find a baby girl for her to adopt as her own. Now Mr. Jaggers had just defended
in court a man named Abel Magwitch, the tool of Compeyson, who had broken Miss Havisham's heart.
Compeyson had tempted Magwitch into passing some stolen money and they had both been arrested.
At the trial Compeyson (sneak and liar as he was!) threw all the blame on his comrade, who
was duller and less sharp than he, and as a consequence, while Compeyson got a light sentence,
Magwitch, though really the more innocent of the two, had been sent to the prison-ship for
a term of many years. These two men, by the way, were the pair who escaped from the hulks into
the marshes. Magwitch was Pip's convict of the churchyard, and Compeyson was the one he had
dragged back to capture. This Magwitch, at the time of his arrest, had a baby daughter, who
had fallen into Mr. Jaggers's care, and in answer to Miss Havisham's request the lawyer had
sent the little girl to her, telling her nothing whatever of the child's parentage.

Miss Havisham had named the child Estella, and, seeing she would be a very beautiful woman,
had determined to bring her up heartless and cold, to ruin as many men's lives as possible,
so as to avenge her own wrongs and broken heart.

So Estella had grown up in the dismal house, Miss Havisham's only companion. Day by day she
became more lovely, and even while she was still a little girl, the same age as Pip, Miss Havisham
was impatient to begin teaching her her lesson.

This was the reason Pip had received his invitation to Miss Havisham's house. Though he had
no idea of it, he was intended only as practice for little Estella, who under Miss Havisham's
teaching was growing up very fond of admiration and very cold-hearted, too.

Pip thought Miss Havisham the strangest lady he had ever seen, and the yellow satin, the candle-lighted
rooms, and the stopped clocks seemed to him very odd. But Estella was so pretty that from the
first moment he saw her he had no eyes for anything else. Even though she called him clumsy
and common, and seemed to delight in hurting his feelings, Pip fell in love with her and could
not help himself. Miss Havisham made them play together and told him to come again the next week.

Pip went home in very bad humor on account of all the hurts which Estella had given his feelings.
Uncle Pumblechook, being very curious to know all about his trip, bullied and questioned him
so (beginning as usual with the multiplication table) that Pip, perfectly frantic, told him
the most impossible tales. He said Miss Havisham was in a black coach inside the house, and
had cake and wine handed to her through the coach window on a golden plate, and that he and
she played with flags and swords, while four dogs fought for veal cutlets out of a silver basket.

But when Uncle Pumblechook told Joe these wonders, Pip was remorseful. He went to the forge
and confessed to Joe that he had been telling a falsehood, and promised he would never do so again.

This visit was the first of many that Pip paid to the gloomy house whose shutters were always
closed. Next time he went he was taken into the chamber where the decayed wedding-cake sat
on the table. The room was full of relatives of Miss Havisham (for it was her birthday), who
spent their lives flattering and cringing, hoping when she died she would leave them some money.

After a time Pip went into the garden and there he met another relative in the person of a
pale young gentleman about his own age, but larger, who promptly lowered his head, butted Pip
in the stomach and invited him to fight. Pip was so sure nobody else's head belonged in the
pit of his stomach that he obliged him at once, and as practice at the forge had made him tough,
it was not many minutes before the pale young gentleman was lying on his back, looking up at
him out of an exceedingly black eye and with a bleeding countenance.

When Estella let Pip out of the gate that day he guessed that she had seen the encounter and
that somehow it had pleased her, for she gave him her cheek to kiss. Yet he knew that at heart
she thought him only a coarse, common boy, fit to be treated rudely and insolently. This thought
rankled more and more in him. He made up his mind to study and learn, and he got faithful little
Biddy to teach him all she knew.

Pip saw no more of the pale young gentleman, though for almost a year he went to Miss Havisham's
every other day. Each time he saw Estella and found himself loving her more and more. But she
was always unkind, and often, when she had been ruder than usual, he saw that Miss Havisham
seemed to take delight in his mortification. Sometimes she would fondle Estella's hand, and
he would hear her say:

"That's right! Break their hearts, my pride and hope! Break their hearts and have no mercy!"

One day Miss Havisham sent for Joe, the blacksmith, and gave him a bag of money, telling him
that he was not to send Pip to her any more, but that he should put him to work and teach him
the trade of blacksmithing. So Uncle Pumblechook took Pip to town that very day and had him
bound to Joe as an apprentice.

This was just what Pip had once looked forward to with pleasure. But now it made him wretched.
Through Estella's jeers he had come to feel that blacksmithing was common and low. As he helped
Joe to blow the forge fire, he thought constantly of Estella's looks of disdain, yet in spite
of all he longed to see her.

On his first half-holiday he went to call on Miss Havisham. But there was no Estella. Miss
Havisham told him she had sent her abroad to be educated as a lady, and when the miserable
tears sprang to Pip's eyes, she laughed.

When he got home he confided in Biddy. He told her how he loved Estella, and that he wanted
more than anything else in the world to be a gentleman. Meanwhile he began to study hard in
any spare time he had, and Biddy helped him all she could.

Pip might have fallen in love with Biddy if he had not had Estella always in his mind. Orlick,
Joe's helper, indeed, thought he had done so, and it made him hate Pip more than ever, for
he was in love with Biddy himself. He grew morose and quarrelsome and spoke so roughly to Mrs.
Joe one day that she was not satisfied till the blacksmith took off his singed apron and knocked
the surly Orlick flat in the coal dust.

This was a costly revenge for Mrs. Joe, however. Orlick never forgave it, and a few nights
after, when no one was at home but herself he crept in behind her in the kitchen and struck
her a terrible blow on the head with a piece of iron.

Hours afterward Joe found her lying senseless, and though she lived to recover a part of her
senses, she never scolded or spoke again. She grew well enough at last to sit all day in her
chair, but was so helpless that Biddy came to the house to be her nurse. It chanced that a
prisoner had escaped from the prison-boats on the night Mrs. Joe was injured, and he was thought
to be the one who attacked her. But Pip suspected Orlick all the while.

So time went on. Once a year, on his birthday, Pip went to see Miss Havisham, but he never
saw Estella there. And nothing else of particular importance occurred till he had been for
four years Joe's apprentice.

One night, as Pip sat with Joe before the fire in The Three Jolly Bargemen, they were called
out by a gentleman whom Pip remembered to have seen once at Miss Havisham's. It was, as a matter
of fact, Mr. Jaggers, her lawyer, who had sent Estella to her as a baby.

The lawyer walked home with them, for he had a wonderful piece of news to relate. It was that
an unknown benefactor, whose name he was not permitted to tell, intended when he died to leave
Pip a fortune. In the meantime he wished to have him educated to become a gentleman, and as
a lad of Great Expectations, and, the better to accomplish this, he wished Pip to go without
delay to London.

This great good fortune seemed so marvelous that Pip could hardly believe it. He had never
imagined Miss Havisham intended to befriend him, but now he guessed at once that she was this
unknown benefactor. And he jumped next to another conclusion even more splendid--that she intended
him sometime to marry Estella and was even then educating her for him. Pip went home almost
in a dream, too full of his own prospects to see how sad Biddy was beneath her gladness for
him, or how sorrowful the good news made Joe.

That night Estella's face came before him, more full of disdain than ever. As he thought of
her and of the fine gentleman he was to be, the humble kitchen and forge seemed to grow commoner
and meaner by contrast. He began to become a little spoiled and disdainful himself.

The news soon spread about, and every one who had looked down upon Pip now gave him smiles
and flattery. Uncle Pumblechook wept on his shoulder and (instead of telling him, as usual,
that he was sure to come to a bad end) reminded him that he had always been his favorite.

Mr. Jaggers had given Pip a generous amount of money to buy new clothes with, and these tended
to make him more spoiled than ever. He began to feel condescending toward Biddy, and found
himself wondering whether, when he should be rich and educated, Joe's manners would not make
him blush if they should meet.

And even when the day came for him to bid them good-by and he climbed aboard the coach for
London, he thought more of these things and his own good luck than of the home he was parting
from for ever, or of the true and loving hearts he was leaving behind him.

This was an ignoble beginning for Pip and one that he came afterward to remember with shame!

III

PIP DISCOVERS HIS BENEFACTOR

Mr. Jaggers, the lawyer in whose care Pip found himself in London, was sharp and secret, and
was so feared by criminals that they would never go near his house, though he never locked
his door, even at night.

He had a crusty clerk named Wemmick, as secret as he and a deal queerer. Wemmick lived in a
little wooden cottage that he called The Castle, and which had its top cut out like a fort.
It had a ditch all around it with a plank drawbridge. When he got home from the office in the
evening he pulled up the drawbridge and ran up a flag on a flagstaff planted there. And exactly
at nine every night he fired off a brass cannon that he kept in a latticework fortress beside it.

Wemmick was the first one Pip met in London, and the clerk took him to the rooms where Mr.
Jaggers had arranged for Pip to live, with the son of a gentleman who was to be his teacher.
This gentleman was a Mr. Pocket, a relative (as Pip discovered) of Miss Havisham, which fact
made him all the more certain that she was his unknown friend. Mr. Pocket's son was named Herbert,
and the minute he and Pip first saw each other they burst out laughing. For Herbert was none
other than the pale young gentleman who, years before in Miss Havisham's garden, Pip had last
seen looking up at him out of a very black eye.

They were excellent friends from that hour. They occupied the rooms together when they were
in London, and Pip also had a room of his own at Mr. Pocket's house in the country.

Mr. Pocket was a helpless scholarly man who depended on Mrs. Pocket to manage everything, and
she depended on the servants. There were seven little Pockets of various ages tumbling about
the house, and Mrs. Pocket's only idea of management seemed to be to send them all to bed when
any one of them was troublesome. At such times Mr. Pocket would groan, put his hands in his
hair, lift himself several inches out of his chair and then let himself down again.

In spite of his oddities, however, Mr. Pocket was an excellent teacher, and Pip in some ways
made progress. But his Great Expectations taught him bad habits. He found it so easy to spend
money that he soon overstepped the allowance Mr. Jaggers had told him was his, and not only
had got into debt himself, but had led Herbert, who was far poorer, into debt also.

Joe came to see him only once, and then Pip's spoiled eyes overlooked his true, rugged manliness
and noted more clearly his awkward manners and halting speech. Joe was quick to see this difference
in the Pip he had known and he did not stay long--only long enough to leave a message from
Miss Havisham: that Estella had returned from abroad and would be glad to see him if he came.

Pip lost no time in making this visit, and started the very next day. The old house looked
just the same, but a new servant opened the gate for him: it was Orlick, as low-browed and
sullen and surly as ever, and Pip saw at the first glance that his old hatred was still smoldering.

Miss Havisham was in her room, dressed in the same worn wedding dress, and beside her, with
diamonds on her neck and hair, sat Estella. Pip hardly knew her, she had grown so beautiful.
But she was proud and wilful as of old, and though he felt the old love growing stronger every
moment, he felt no nearer to her than in those past wretched days of his boyhood. Before he
left, Miss Havisham asked him eagerly if Estella was not more lovely, and, as he sat by her
alone, she drew his head close to her lips and whispered fiercely:

"Love her, love her, love her! If she favors you, love her! If she tears your heart to pieces,
love her, love her, love her!"

Though this visit took him so near the old forge, Pip did not go to see Joe and Biddy. Indeed,
only once in the months that followed did he see them--when he went to attend the funeral of
Mrs. Joe.

After that he had no need to leave the city to see Estella, for Miss Havisham soon sent her
to live in London. From there she required her to write letters weekly, telling how many men
she had fascinated and made wretched. Pip saw her constantly and tortured himself with the
growing belief that Miss Havisham's training (the purpose of which he had begun to guess) was
really succeeding in crushing her heart, and was leaving her with no power to love any one.

Thus, between hope and despair, Pip became of age. Mr. Jaggers now told him that a certain
large sum was his to spend each year. He was deeply in debt and a great part of his first year's
portion went to pay his creditors. But with the remainder he did a good and unselfish deed:
he bought secretly a share in a good business for Herbert, so that his comrade became a partner
in it.

A great blow was now to fall upon Pip without warning--something that changed the whole course
of his life. One rainy night, when Herbert was away from London, as he sat alone in their rooms,
a heavy step stumbled up the stair and a man entered. He was coarse and rough-looking and tanned
with exposure, with a furrowed bald head, tufted at the sides with gray hair.

There was something strangely familiar to Pip in his face, but at first he did not recognize
him. Seeing this, the stranger threw down his hat, twisted a handkerchief around his head,
took a file from his pocket and walked across the room with a curious shivering gait that brought
back to Pip's mind, like a lightning flash, the scene in the churchyard so many years ago,
when he had sat perched on a tombstone looking in terror at that same man's face. And he knew
all at once that the man was the escaped convict of that day!

It was a strange tale the new-comer told then, one that Pip's heart sank to hear. Miss Havisham
had not been his benefactor after all. The one whose money had educated him, had set him there
in London to live the life of a gentleman, the one to whom he was indebted for every penny
he owned, was Abel Magwitch, a criminal--the convict for whom he had once stolen food years before!

Pip sank into a chair trembling as Magwitch, in a hoarse voice, told his story. He told how
the man Compeyson had led him into crime and then deserted him. How he had hated the other
so fiercely that after they both had escaped from the prison-hulks he had dragged Compeyson
back to imprisonment even at the loss of his own liberty. How for that attempt to escape he
had been sentenced to transportation for life, and had been sent to Botany Bay in Australia,
where in time he became in a measure free, though forbidden under penalty of death to return
to England. How he had never forgotten the little Pip who had tried to aid him, and how he
had sworn that he would repay him many times over. How he had taken to sheep-raising and prospered,
and became a rich man. How he had written to Mr. Jaggers, the lawyer who had defended him,
and paid him to find Pip and educate him. And how at last he had dared even the death penalty
to come to England to see how he fared.

His voice shook as he told how he had slaved through all the years, looking forward only to
this moment when he should come back to see the little Pip whom he had made into a gentleman.

Poor Pip! It was an end to all his dreams of Miss Havisham and of Estella. He shrank from Magwitch,
horrified at the bare thought of what he owed to him. He forced himself to utter some trembling
words and set food before the convict, watching him as he ate like a ravenous old dog. His
heart was like lead, all his plans knocked askew. Even while he pitied the old man, he shrank
from him as if from a wild beast, with all his childish dread increased a hundredfold.

At length Pip put Magwitch in Herbert's room to sleep, but all that night he himself lay tossing
and sleepless, staring into the darkness and listening to the rain outside.

IV

PIP COMES TO HIMSELF

The days that followed were one long agony to Pip. When Herbert returned he told him the whole
story. Herbert was shocked and surprised, but he was true to his friendship and together they
planned what to do.

It was clear to Pip that he could not spend any more of Magwitch's money; indeed, recoiling
from him as he did, he would gladly have repaid every penny if it had been possible. To make
the matter worse, it seemed that Magwitch had brought a great deal of money with him and was
determined that Pip should move into a fashionable house, buy fast horses, keep servants and
live most expensively.

Pip hesitated to tell Magwitch his decision, however, for what the convict now planned showed
how much he had thought of him and loved him in his rough way during all his years in Australia.

Meanwhile he and Herbert kept Magwitch hidden as much as possible, and gave out that the old
man was Pip's uncle, on a visit from the country.

Unluckily, however, Magwitch's presence in London had been seen. He had been recognized in
the street and followed to Pip's rooms. And the man who saw him was his bitterest enemy--Compeyson,
the breaker of Miss Havisham's heart, who had first made Magwitch a criminal, and whom the
convict so hated. Compeyson had served out his term, and was now free. He saw his chance to
pay the old grudge with Magwitch's life. In order, however, to make sure of his capture he
decided to entice Pip away and bring the police upon Magwitch when he would have no one to
warn him.

Meanwhile, unconscious of this plot, Pip made a last visit to Miss Havisham. He felt now that
he was again poor and without prospects, and with small hope of winning Estella.

But finding her there, in Miss Havisham's presence, he told her how dearly he had always loved
her since the first day they had met. She seemed moved by his distress, but her heart had not
yet awakened. She told him that she was about to marry one whom he knew for a coarse, brutal
man, in every way beneath her. And then Pip knew for certain that Miss Havisham's bitter teaching
had borne its fruit at last, and that Estella was to marry this man, not because she loved
him, but merely as a final stab to all the other worthier ones.

In spite of her years of self-torture and revengeful thoughts, Miss Havisham had still a spark
of real pity. As Pip reminded her of the wreck she had made of him, through Estella, and through
allowing him falsely to believe her his benefactor, his agony struck her with remorse. She
put her hand to her heart as he ended, and as he left them he saw through his own tears her
hand still pressed to her side and her faded face ghastly in the candlelight.

Sick with despair, Pip went back to London, to learn from Wemmick, Mr. Jaggers's friendly clerk,
that the rooms were being watched, and that he and Herbert (who in the absence of Pip had confided
in him) had removed Magwitch to another lodging--a room overlooking the river, from which it
would be easier, if worst came to worst, to get him on a ship and so out of the country.

To do this it was necessary to wait for a favorable chance. So Pip, providing for Magwitch's
comfort meantime, bought a boat, and he and Herbert rowed daily up and down the river, so that
when the time came to row the convict to some sea-going ship they would know the turns of the
stream.

Pip soon learned that Compeyson was their spy. Wopsle, who in Pip's boyhood had been the clerk
in the village church, had turned actor (he made, to be sure, a very poor one!), and was now
playing in London. In the theater one night he recognized in the audience the pale-faced convict
whom he had once, with Joe, the blacksmith, and little Pip, seen dragged back to capture by
his more powerful fellow. Pip had long ago learned from Magwitch that this man was Compeyson,
and when Wopsle said he had seen him sitting directly back of Pip at the play, the latter realized
that they had this bitter enemy to reckon with, and that Magwitch was in terrible danger.

Only once was this time of waiting interrupted, and that was by a letter from Miss Havisham
begging Pip to come to see her. He went, and she told him she realized now too late how wicked
her plans had been, and begged him with tears to try to forgive her. Pip, sore as his own heart
was, forgave her freely, and he was glad ever afterward that he had done so, for that same
evening, while he was standing near her, her yellowed wedding veil, sweeping too near the hearth,
caught fire and in an instant her whole dress burst into flame. Pip worked desperately to put
out the fire, but she was so frightfully burned that it was plain she could not live long.
His own hands and arms were painfully injured, so that he returned to London with one arm,
for the time being, almost useless.

Compeyson, meanwhile, made friends with Orlick, and between them they wrote Pip a letter, decoying
him to a lonely hut in the marshes. When he came there Orlick threw a noose over his head,
tied him to the wall and would have killed him with a great stone-hammer but for Herbert, who
broke down the door and rushed in just in time to put Orlick to flight and to save Pip's life.
Herbert had picked up the letter Pip had thrown down, read it, seen in it something suspicious,
and had followed from London.

Pip saw now there was no time to lose if he would save Magwitch. They made haste to London,
and when night fell, took the convict in the rowboat and rowing a few miles down the river,
waited to board a steamer bound for Germany.

What happened next happened very speedily. They were about to board the steamer when a boat
containing Compeyson and some police shot out from the bank, Compeyson calling on Magwitch
to surrender. The two boats clashed together, and the steamer, unable to stop, ran them both
down. At the same moment Magwitch seized Compeyson and they went into the water together.

When Pip came to himself the steamer had gone, his own boat had sunk and he and Herbert had
been dragged aboard the other. A few minutes later Magwitch was picked up, badly injured in
the chest, and was handcuffed. But they did not find Compeyson--the other had killed him in
that fearful struggle under water.

That night Magwitch was lodged in jail. Before many days he was tried for returning to England
and was sentenced to be hanged. But it was clear before the trial ended that his injury would
never let him live to suffer this penalty.

And now, as he saw the convict lying day by day drawing nearer to death, calling him "dear
boy" and watching for his face, all the loathing and repugnance Pip had felt for him vanished
away. He had sat beside the sick man at his trial; now he sat beside his cot each day in his
cell, holding his hand. He knew there could be no longer any possibility of his taking the
fortune the convict would leave, for, being condemned to death, all Magwitch's property went
to the Crown. But he did not tell this to Magwitch.

One thing he discovered, however, which he told the dying man. This concerned Estella. As the
film of death came over the convict's face Pip said:

"Dear Magwitch, you had a child once, whom you loved and lost. She is living still. She is
a lady and very beautiful. And I love her!" And hearing this last glad news, Magwitch died.

Before this happened Herbert had left England for Egypt where his business took him. Left alone,
after the strain, Pip fell sick of a fever and in the midst of this found himself arrested
for debt.

That was the last he knew for many weeks. When he came to himself he found Joe, the true-hearted
blacksmith, nursing him. He had paid Pip's debts. Miss Havisham was dead and Orlick had been
sent to jail for robbing Uncle Pumblechook's house.

Joe's faithfulness smote Pip with a sense of his own ingratitude. After a visit to the old
forge with Joe and Biddy, now Joe's wife, Pip felt how true were the old friends. He buried
for ever the past false pride and folly and knew himself for all his trials a nobler man.

He sailed to Egypt, where he became a clerk in Herbert's business house, and finally a partner,
and it was eleven years before he was in England again.

Then, one day he went down to the old ruined house where Miss Havisham had lived.

He entered the weed-grown garden, and there on a bench, a sad, beautiful widow, sat Estella.
Her husband had treated her brutally till he died, and she had learned through suffering to
know that she had a heart and had thrown away the one thing that could have made her happy--Pip's
love.

When Pip and she left the old house that day it was hand in hand, never to part again.

LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF NICHOLAS NICKLEBY

Published 1839

Scene: London, Portsmouth and the Country

Time: About 1830

CHARACTERS

    Nicholas Nickleby                            A young gentleman

    Mrs. Nickleby                                       His mother

    Kate                                                His sister

    Ralph Nickleby                                       His uncle
                         A miserly money-lender

    Noggs                                   Ralph Nickleby's clerk

    Squeers                    The proprietor of Dotheboys Hall, a
                                        country school for boys

    Mrs. Squeers                                          His wife

    Fanny                                           Their daughter

    Wackford                                             Their son

    Smike                          A poor drudge at Dotheboys Hall
        Befriended by Nicholas. In reality Ralph Nickleby's son

    Madame Mantalini                           A London dressmaker
                        Kate's first employer

    Mr. Mantalini                                      Her husband

    Miss Knag                                        Her forewoman

    Sir Mulberry Hawk                 A dissolute man of the world

    Lord Frederick Verisopht                      A young nobleman
                            Hawk's friend

    Mr. Vincent Crummles        Manager of a theater in Portsmouth

    Mrs. Crummles                                         His wife

    Ninetta                                         Their daughter
                   Known as "The Infant Phenomenon"

    Mrs. Wititterly                    A would-be fashionable lady
                        Kate's second employer

    The Cheeryble Brothers                          Twin merchants
                       Nicholas's benefactors

    Bray                                 A spendthrift and invalid

    Madeline                                          His daughter

    Gride                                                  A miser

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY

I

NICHOLAS AT DOTHEBOYS HALL

Once on a time, in England, there were two brothers named Nickleby who had grown up to be very
different men. Ralph was a rich and miserly money-lender who gained his wealth by persecuting
the poor of London--a thin, cold-hearted, crafty man with a cruel smile. The other, who lived
in the country, was generous but poor, so that when he died he left his wife and two children,
Nicholas and Kate, with hardly a penny to keep them from starving.

In their trouble the mother decided to go and try to obtain help from her husband's brother,
Ralph Nickleby.

Ralph was angry when he learned they had come to London, for he loved his gold better than
anything else in the world. He lived in Golden Square, a very rich part of the city, in a great
fine house, all alone save for one servant, and he kept only one clerk.

This clerk, who was named Noggs, had one glass eye and long, bony fingers which he had an uncomfortable
habit of cracking together when he spoke to any one. He had once been rich, but he had given
his money to Ralph Nickleby to invest for him, and the money-lender had ended by getting it
all, so that the poor man at last had to become the other's clerk. When he first saw Nicholas
and Kate, Noggs was sorry enough for them, because he knew it would be little help they would
get from their stingy uncle.

Nicholas was proud-mettled, and his very bearing angered the money-lender. He called him a
young puppy, and a pauper besides, to which Nicholas replied with heat and spirit. His mother
succeeded in smoothing things over for the time, and though Ralph Nickleby from that moment
hated the boy, he grudgingly promised her to get him a situation as a teacher.

The school the miser selected was one called Dotheboys Hall, a long, cold-looking, tumble-down
building, one story high, in a dreary part of the country. It belonged to a man named Squeers,
a burly, ruffianly hypocrite, who pretended to the world to be a kind, fatherly master, but
in fact treated his pupils with such cruelty that almost the only ones ever sent there were
poor little orphans, whose guardians were glad to get rid of them. Squeers had an oily, wrinkled
face and flat shiny hair, brushed straight up from his forehead. His sleeves were too long
and his trousers too short, and he carried a leather whip about in his pocket to punish the
boys with.

Mrs. Squeers was a fat woman, who wore a soiled dressing-gown, kept her hair in curl papers
all day, and always had a yellow handkerchief tied around her neck. She was as cruel as her
husband. They had one daughter and a son named Wackford. The latter they kept as plump as could
be, so he would serve as an advertisement of the school; the rest of the boys, however, were
pale and thin.

No wonder, for they got almost nothing to eat. For dinner all they had was a bowl of thin porridge
with a wedge of bread for a spoon. When they had eaten the porridge they ate the spoon. Once
a week they were forced to swallow a dreadful mixture of brimstone and sulphur, because this
dose took away their appetites so that they ate less for several days afterward. They were
made to sleep five in a bed, and were poorly clothed, for whenever a new boy came Mrs. Squeers
took his clothes away from him for Wackford, and made the new boy wear any old ones she could
find. They were allowed to write only letters telling how happy they were there, and when letters
came for any of them, Mrs. Squeers opened them first and took for herself any money that they
contained.

There was no attempt at teaching at Dotheboys Hall. The books were dirty and torn and the classes
were scarecrows. All the boys were made to work hard at chores about the place, and were flogged
almost every day, so that their lives were miserable. What Squeers wanted was the money their
guardians paid him for keeping them.

This was the kind of school for which Nicholas found himself hired at very low wages as a teacher.

He knew nothing about it yet, however, and thought himself lucky and his uncle kind as he bade
his mother and Kate good-by and took the coach for Dotheboys Hall. Noggs, Ralph Nickleby's
one-eyed clerk, was there to see him off, and put a letter into his hand as he started. Nicholas
was so sad at leaving the two he loved best in the world, that he put it into his pocket and
for the time forgot all about it.

On his arrival next day Nicholas's heart sank into his boots. When he saw the boys gathered
in the barn, which served for a school-room, he was ready to die with shame and disgust to
think he was to be a teacher in such a place.

But he had no money to take him back to London, and because he did not want to make his mother
and Kate unhappy, he wrote them as cheerfully as he could. The letter Noggs had given him he
remembered at last to read. It told him the writer feared his uncle had deceived him in regard
to the school, and said if Nicholas needed a friend at any time, he would find one in him,
Noggs. These kind words from the old clerk brought tears to Nicholas's eyes.

Of all the wretched boys there Nicholas pitied most a poor fellow named Smike, whom Squeers
had made a drudge. He was tall and lanky and wore a little boy's suit, too short in the arms
and legs. He had been placed there when a child, and the man who had brought him had disappeared
and left no money to pay for his keep. Squeers's cruelties had made the unfortunate lad simple-minded.
Besides this he was lame. Nicholas helped Smike all he could, and the poor fellow was so grateful
that he followed the other about like a slave.

Squeers's daughter was named Fanny. She had red hair, which she wore in five exact rows on
the top of her head. She thought herself very beautiful and at once fell in love with Nicholas.
As he could not help showing that he did not like her, Miss Fanny grew spiteful and in revenge
began to persecute Smike, knowing Nicholas liked him.

Smike stood this as long as he could, but at last one day he ran away. Squeers was furious.
He took one chaise and Mrs. Squeers another, and off they went in different directions to find
him. Nicholas was miserable, for he knew Smike would be caught. Sure enough, on the second
day Mrs. Squeers returned, dragging her victim. When Squeers arrived Smike was taken from the
cellar, where he had been locked up, and brought before the assembled boys for a public thrashing.

At the rain of brutal blows which began Nicholas's blood boiled. He stepped forward, crying "Stop!"

For answer Squeers struck him savagely in the face with his heavy ruler. Then Nicholas threw
away his self-control, and leaping on the bully, to the unmeasured delight of the boys, took
the ruler from him and thrashed him until he cried for mercy. All the while Mrs. Squeers was
trying to drag the victor away by his coat tails, while the spiteful Miss Fanny threw inkstands
at his head.

When his arm was tired Nicholas gave Squeers a final blow, which knocked him senseless into
a corner, coolly went to his room, packed his few belongings in a bundle and left Dotheboys
Hall for ever.

He was two hundred and fifty miles from London and had very little money. Snow was falling
and for that night he took refuge in an empty barn. In the morning he awoke, startled, to see
a figure sitting by him. It was Smike, who had followed him.

The poor creature fell on his knees. "Let me go with you!" he cried. "I want no clothes and
I can beg my food. I will be your faithful servant. Only let me go with you."

"And so you shall!" said Nicholas. "Come!" He rose, took up his bundle, gave his hand to Smike
and so they set out toward London together.

II

NICHOLAS BECOMES AN ACTOR

Meanwhile Ralph Nickleby, the money-lender, had given Kate and her mother leave to live in
a rickety, unoccupied house which he owned. It was a dingy building on an old wharf, but Noggs,
the clerk, himself cleaned and furnished one of its rooms so that it was fairly comfortable.
When they were settled Ralph took Kate to a dressmaker's, where he got her a situation, hoping
thus they would not call on him for any money.

The dressmaker called herself Madame Mantalini. Her real name was Muntle, but she thought the
other sounded better. Her husband was a plump, lazy man with huge side-whiskers, who spent
most of the time curling them and betting on horse-races. He gambled away all the money Madame
Mantalini made, but he pretended to be terribly fond of her, and was always calling her his
"little fairy" and his "heart's delight," so that the silly woman always forgave him. He tried
to kiss Kate the first day, which made her detest him.

At Madame Mantalini's Kate had to stand up all day trying on dresses for rich ladies, who were
often rude to her. And because they preferred to be waited on by the pretty, rosy-cheeked girl,
Miss Knag, the ugly forewoman, hated the child, and did all she could to make her unhappy.

Kate's mother used to wait each evening on the street corner outside, and they would walk home
together. They had no idea what trouble Nicholas was having all this time, because he had written
them such cheerful letters, and whenever they felt sadder than usual they would comfort themselves
by thinking how well he was getting along and what a fine position he had.

If they could have seen him when he finally got to London after running away from Dotheboys
Hall, they would hardly have known him. Both he and poor Smike were hungry and muddy and tired.
Remembering Noggs's kind letter, Nicholas went first to the little garret where the clerk lived,
and through him he found a cheap room on the roof of the building, which he rented for himself
and Smike. Then he started out to find his mother and Kate.

He would have hastened if he had guessed what was happening or how badly Kate had been treated
by Ralph Nickleby.

The evening before, as it happened, Kate had been invited to dinner at her uncle's fine house,
and there she had met two dissipated young men--Lord Frederick Verisopht and Sir Mulberry Hawk,
the latter of whom had looked at her and talked to her so rudely that she had indignantly left
the table and gone home. She had not slept a wink that night, and the next morning, to make
her and her mother more wretched still, Ralph Nickleby called with a letter he had just received
from Fanny Squeers, declaring that Nicholas was a thief and a scoundrel; that he had tried
to murder her father and all his family, and had run off with one of the pupils of Dotheboys Hall.

To be sure, neither of them believed it, but if made them very unhappy. And then, just as Ralph
was reading them the last line of the letter, in came Nicholas! You may be sure he comforted
them and told them it was a lie. He told Ralph what he thought of him also in stern language,
which made his uncle angrier than ever.

Then, seeing that his presence was making things worse, and realizing in what poverty his dear
ones were, and that they were so wholly dependent on Ralph for help, Nicholas came to a very
brave determination. He told them that, as he could not help them himself, he would go away
from them until his fortune bettered. So, bidding them good-by, and telling his uncle he should
keep watch over them and that if any harm came to them he would hold him accountable, Nicholas
went sadly back to his garret room and to Smike.

He tried hard for some days to find a situation, but failed, and he would not take money from
Noggs, who was so poor himself. So at last, with Smike, he set out on foot for Portsmouth,
which was a seaport, thinking there they might find a chance to go as sailors in some ship.

At an inn on the way, however, Nicholas met a man who caused him to change all his plans. This
man was a Mr. Vincent Crummles. When Nicholas first saw him in the inn he was teaching his
two sons to make-believe fight with swords. They were practising for a play, for Mr. Crummles
was manager of a theater in Portsmouth, and he proposed that Nicholas join the company and
become an actor.

There seemed nothing else to do, so Nicholas agreed, and next day they went to the Portsmouth
theater, where he was introduced to all the company.

It was a very curious mixture. There was Mrs. Crummles, who took the tickets, and little Miss
Crummles, whom the bills called "The Infant Phenomenon," and who was always said to be only
ten years old. There was a slim young man with weak eyes who played the lover, and a fat man
with a turned-up nose who played the funny countryman, and a shabby old man whose breath smelled
of gin, who took the part of the good old banker with the gray side-whiskers. Then there was
the lady who acted the rôle of the wicked adventuress, and all the others.

Nicholas had to begin by writing a play which had parts for all of them, and it proved a great
success. Smike, whom he drilled himself, took the part of a hungry boy, and he looked so starved,
naturally, from his life with Squeers, that he was tremendously applauded.

One of the other actors was so jealous at the play's success that he sent Nicholas a challenge
to a duel, but Nicholas walked on to the stage before the whole company and knocked the actor
down, and after that he had no trouble and was a great favorite.

He might have stayed a long time at Mr. Crummles's theater, for he had earned quite a good
deal of money, but one day he got a letter from Noggs, the clerk, telling him that all was
not well with his mother and Kate. And without waiting an hour, Nicholas resigned from the
company and, with Smike, set out again for London.

III

NICHOLAS COMES TO KATE'S RESCUE

Noggs was right. Ralph Nickleby had never ceased to persecute Kate and her mother. In fact,
when he had invited Kate to the dinner at which she had been insulted, it was for his own evil
purpose. He had done so, hoping she might impress the foolish young Lord Verisopht, whose money
he was hoping to get, and whom he wished to attract to his house.

The young nobleman, as Ralph had intended, fell in love with Kate's sweet face at once, and
found out from her uncle where she lived.

She had lost her first position at the dressmaker's (for Mr. Mantalini had thrown away his
wife's money on race-horses until the sheriff had seized the business), and she was acting
now as companion to a Mrs. Wititterly, a pale, languid lady who considered herself a very fashionable
person indeed, and was always suffering from imaginary ailments. Lord Frederick and Sir Mulberry
Hawk came often to the house, pretending to flatter Mrs. Wititterly, but really to see Kate,
who heartily disliked them both.

Mrs. Wititterly at last came to realize that the two men at whose attentions she had felt so
flattered really cared only for her young companion, and, being vain and jealous, she tormented
and scolded Kate till the poor girl's life was a burden.

At length, feeling that she could endure it no longer, Kate went to Ralph and begged him with
tears to help her find another situation, but the money-lender refused to aid her. Noggs, the
clerk, was sorry for her, but could do nothing except write to Nicholas, and this was the reason
for the letter that had brought Nicholas post-haste back to London.

Just what kind of persecution Kate had had to bear he learned by accident almost as soon as
he got there.

As he sat in a coffee-house he suddenly heard the words, "little Kate Nickleby," spoken by
a man behind him. He turned and listened.

Four men whom he had never seen were drinking toasts to her, and Nicholas grew hot with rage
at the coarse words they used. Sitting there, scarcely able to contain himself, he heard the
whole story of his Uncle Ralph's plot, he heard his sister's sufferings derided, her goodness
jeered at, her beauty made the subject of insolent jests. One of the four men, of course, was
Lord Frederick Verisopht, and the coarsest and the most vulgar of them all, as may be guessed,
was Sir Mulberry Hawk.

White with anger, Nicholas confronted the party and, throwing down his card on the table, declared
that the lady in question was his sister, and demanded of Hawk his name. Hawk refused to answer.
Nicholas called him a liar and a coward, and seating himself, swore the other should not leave
his sight before he knew who he was.

When Hawk attempted to enter his carriage Nicholas sprang on to the step. The other, in a fury,
struck him with the whip, and Nicholas, wrenching it from him, with one blow laid open Hawk's
cheek. The horse, frightened at the struggle, started off at a terrific speed, and Nicholas
felt himself hurled to the ground.

As he rose, he saw the runaway horse, whirling across the pavement, upset the carriage with
a crash of breaking glass. Nicholas had no doubt that the man it held had been frightfully
hurt if not killed. He felt faint from his own fall, and it was with difficulty that he reached
Noggs's garret, whither, before the adventure in the coffee-room, he had sent Smike to announce
his coming.

His first step now was to write a letter to Ralph, telling him he at last knew what a villain
he was, and that he and his mother and sister cast him off for ever, with shame that they had
ever asked his aid. The next day Nicholas took Kate from the Wititterly house and his mother
from her poor lodging, and rented them rooms in another part of the city. Then he started out
to find some employment for himself.

For a long time he was unsuccessful, but one day (and a very lucky day Nicholas thought it
ever afterward) he met on the street a round-faced, jolly-looking old gentleman, with whom
he fell into conversation, and before long, almost without knowing it, he had told him all
his troubles.

This old gentleman was named Cheeryble, and the firm to which he belonged was Cheeryble Brothers.
He and his twin brother had come to London, barefoot, when they were boys, and though they
had grown very rich, they had never forgotten what it was to be poor and wretched. The old
gentleman asked Nicholas to come with him to his office and there they met the other Mr. Cheeryble.

Nicholas could scarcely tell the two brothers apart, for they were like as two peas. They were
precisely the same size, wore clothes just alike and laughed in the same key. Each had even
lost exactly the same number of teeth. They were loved by everybody, for they went through
life doing good wherever they could. They both liked Nicholas at once, and the upshot was that
they gave him a position in their counting-room and rented a pleasant cottage near by for his
mother and Kate.

So there Nicholas took up work and they were all happy and comfortable--very different from
Ralph Nickleby, the money-lender, in his fine house, with only the memory of his own wickedness
for company.

IV

WHAT HAPPENED TO EVERYBODY

Ralph Nickleby's hatred had been growing day by day. As he could not harm Nicholas now, he
tried to hurt him through Smike. He sent for Squeers, and the latter, finding Smike alone one
day on the street, seized him, put him in a coach and started to take him back to Dotheboys
Hall. But luckily his victim escaped and got back to London.

Then Ralph formed a wicked plot to get Smike surely into their hands. He hired a man to claim
that he was the boy's father, who had first taken him to Squeers's school. Squeers, too, swore
to this lying tale. But the Cheeryble brothers suspected the story, and when Ralph saw they
were determined to help Nicholas protect Smike, he was afraid to go any further with the plan.
So he smothered his rage for the time being, and meanwhile a most important thing happened
to Nicholas--he fell in love!

It came about in this way: There was a man named Bray, who had been arrested for debt and was
allowed to live only in a certain street under the guardianship of the jailer, for this was
the law in England then. He was slowly dying of heart-disease, and all the money he had to
live on was what his only daughter, a lovely girl named Madeline, earned by painting and selling
pictures.

The Cheeryble brothers had learned of their poverty, (for it was hard for Madeline to find
purchasers), and they sent Nicholas to buy some of the pictures. He was to pretend to be a
dealer, so that Madeline would not suspect it was done for charity. Nicholas went more than
once and soon had fallen very much in love with Madeline Bray.

He was not the only one who admired her, however. There was an old man named Gride, almost
as stingy as Ralph Nickleby, who had discovered by accident that a large sum of money really
belonged to Madeline, which she and her father knew nothing about, and he thought it would
be a fine thing to marry her and thus get this fortune into his hands. Now, Ralph Nickleby
was one of the men who was keeping Bray a prisoner, and so Gride went to him and asked him
to help him marry Madeline. If Bray made his daughter marry the old miser he himself was to
be set free. Ralph, for his share, was to get some of the money the old man Gride knew should
be Madeline's.

It was a pretty plan and it pleased Ralph, for he cared little what lives he ruined so long
as he got money by it. So he agreed, and soon convinced Bray (who, ill as he was, was utterly
selfish) that it would be a fine thing for Madeline to marry the hideous old Gride and so free
her father. At length, in despair, because she thought it her duty to her heartless father,
Madeline consented to do so.

Nicholas might never have known of this till after the wedding, but luckily Noggs, the clerk,
had overheard the old skinflint make the bargain with Ralph, and when one day Nicholas confessed
that he was in love with Madeline, the good-hearted clerk told him all that he had found out.

Nicholas was in great trouble, for he loved Madeline very dearly. He went to her and begged
her not to marry Gride, but she thought it her duty. He went to Gride, too, but the hideous
old miser only sneered at him.

At last, in desperation, he told Kate, and the brother and sister went together to Bray's house.
They reached it just as the wedding was about to begin.

Ralph Nickleby, who was there, foamed with fury to find the nephew he so hated again stepping
between him and his evil designs. He tried to bar them out, but Nicholas forced him back.

They would doubtless have come to blows, but at that moment there came from another room the
sound of a fall, and a scream from Madeline. The excitement had proved too much for her father.
His heart had failed and he had fallen dead on the floor. Thus Providence interfered to bring
the wicked scheme of the marriage to naught.

Vainly did Gride bemoan the loss of the money he had hoped to gain, and vainly did Ralph Nickleby,
with curses, try to prevent. Nicholas thrust them both aside, lifted the unconscious Madeline
as easily as if she had been a baby, placed her with Kate in a coach and, daring Ralph to follow;
jumped up beside the coachman and bade him drive away.

He took her to his own home, where his mother and Kate cared for her tenderly till she had
recovered from the shock and was her own lovely self again.

The penalty that he had so long deserved was soon to overtake Ralph Nickleby. He lost much
of his wealth through a failure, and close on the heels of this misfortune came the news that
the infamous plot he had formed against Smike had been discovered and that Squeers, his accomplice,
had been arrested.

The most terrible blow came last. A man whom Ralph had long ago ruined and had caused to be
transported for a crime, confessed that he had been the one who, many years before, had left
Smike at Dotheboys Hall, and he confessed also that Smike was really Ralph Nickleby's own son
by a secret marriage. Ralph had not known this, because the man, in revenge, had falsely told
him the child was dead.

The knowledge that, in Smike, he had been persecuting his own son was the crowning blow for
cruel Ralph Nickleby. When he heard this he locked himself up alone in his great house and
never was seen alive again. His body was found in the garret where he had hanged himself to
a rafter.

Poor Smike, however, did not live to sorrow over the villainy of his father. The exposure and
hardships of his years at Squeers's school had broken his health. He had for long been gradually
growing weaker, and at last one day he died peacefully, with Nicholas's arms around him.

Every one of whose villainy this story tells came to a bad end. Sir Mulberry Hawk quarreled
with young Lord Verisopht and shot him dead in the duel that followed. For this he himself
had to fly to a foreign country, where he finally died miserably in jail. Gride, the miser
who had plotted to marry Madeline, met almost as terrible a fate as Ralph's. His house was
broken into by burglars one night and he was found murdered in his bed.

Squeers was declared guilty and transported for seven years. When the news reached Dotheboys
Hall such a cheer arose as had never been heard there. It came on the weekly "treacle day,"
and the boys ducked young Wackford in the soup kettle and made Mrs. Squeers swallow a big dose
of her own brimstone. Then, big and little, they all ran away, just as Nicholas and Smike had done.

Kate married a nephew of the Cheeryble brothers, and Nicholas, of course, married Madeline,
and in time became a partner in the firm. All of them lived near by, and their little children
played together under the watchful care of old Noggs, the one-eyed clerk, who loved them all alike.

The children laid flowers every day on poor Smike's grave, and often their eyes filled with
tears as they spoke low and softly of the dead cousin they had never known.

DEALINGS WITH THE FIRM OF DOMBEY AND SON WHOLESALE, RETAIL, AND FOR EXPORTATION

Published 1846-1848

Scene: London, Brighton, and France

Time: About 1830 to 1846

CHARACTERS

    Mr. Dombey                                   A London merchant
                 Head of the firm of Dombey and Son

    "Little Paul"                                          His son

    Florence                                          His daughter
                   Called by little Paul, "Floy"

    Edith Granger                                          A widow
                     Later, Mr. Dombey's wife

    Walter Gay                          A clerk for Dombey and Son
                     Later, Florence's husband

    Solomon Gills                                        His uncle
             A ship's instrument maker. Known as Old Sol

    Captain Cuttle                                A retired seaman
                     Bosom friend of Old Sol's

    Carker                              Manager for Dombey and Son

    Mrs. Pipchin       Proprietress of a children's boarding-house
                                                      at Brighton
                   Later, Mr. Dombey's housekeeper

    Doctor Blimber        Proprietor of a boys' school at Brighton

    Major Bagstock                          A retired army officer

    Diogenes                                  Doctor Blimber's dog
                     Later a pet of Florence's

DOMBEY AND SON

I

LITTLE PAUL

In London there was once a business house known as Dombey and Son. It had borne that name for
generations, though at the time this story begins Mr. Dombey, the head of the house, had no
son. He was a merchant, hard, cold and selfish, who thought the world was made only for his
firm to trade in. He had one little daughter, Florence, but never since her birth had he loved
or petted her because of his disappointment that she was not a boy.

When at last a son was born to him it wakened something at the bottom of his cold and heavy
heart that he had never known before. He scarcely grieved for his wife, who died when the baby
was born, but gave all his thought to the child. He named him Paul, and began at once to long
for the time when he should become old enough to be a real member of the firm in which all
his own interest centered--Dombey and Son. He hired the best nurse he could find, and, when
he was not at his office, would sit and watch the baby Paul hour after hour, laying plans for
his future. So selfishly was the father's soul wrapped up in this that he scarcely ever noticed
poor, lonely little Florence, whose warm heart was starving for affection.

Little Paul's nurse was very fond of him, and of his sister, too; but she had children of her
own also, and one day, instead of walking up and down with Florence and the baby near the Dombey
house, she took the children to another part of the city to visit her own home.

This was a wrong thing to do, and resulted in a very unhappy adventure for Florence. On their
way home a mad bull broke away from his keepers and charged through the crowded street. There
was great screaming and confusion and people ran in every direction, Florence among the rest.
She ran for a long way, and when she stopped, her nurse was nowhere to be seen. Terrified to
find herself lost in the great city, she began to cry.

The next thing she knew, an ugly old woman, with red-rimmed eyes and a mouth that mumbled all
the while, grasped her by the wrist and dragged her through the shabby doorway of a dirty house
into a back room heaped with rags.

"I want that pretty frock," said she, "and that little bonnet and your petticoat. Come! Take
them off!"

Florence, dreadfully frightened, obeyed. The old woman took away her shoes, too, and made her
put on some filthy ragged clothing from the heaps on the floor. Then she let her go, first
making her promise she would not ask any one to show her the way home.

The poor child could think of nothing else but to find her father's office at Dombey and Son's,
and for two hours she walked, asking the way of everybody she met. She might not have found
it at all, but at a wharf where she wandered, there happened to be a young clerk of Dombey
and Son's, and the minute he was pointed out to her she felt such trust in his bright and open
face that she caught his hand and sobbed out all her story.

This lad's name was Walter Gay. He lived with his uncle, honest old Solomon Gills, a maker
of ship's instruments, who kept a little shop with the wooden figure of a midshipman set outside.
Very few customers ever came into the shop, and, indeed, hardly any one else, for Old Sol,
as the neighbors called him, had only one intimate friend.

This friend was a retired seaman named Captain Cuttle, who always dressed in blue, as if he
were a bird and those were his feathers. He had a hook instead of a hand attached to his right
wrist, a shirt collar so large that it looked like a small sail, and wherever he went he carried
in his left hand a thick stick that was covered all over (like his nose) with knobs.

Captain Cuttle used to talk on land just as if he were at sea. He would say "Steady!" and "Belay,
there!" and called Old Sol "Shipmate," as though the little shop, in which he spent his evenings,
was a ship. He had a deep, rumbling voice, in which he would sing Lovely Peg, the only song
he knew, and which he never but once got through to the last line. But in spite of his queer
ways and talk, Captain Cuttle had the softest, kindest heart in the world. He thought old Solomon
Gills the greatest man alive, and was as fond as possible of "Wal'r," as he called the nephew.
And, indeed, Walter was a handsome boy, and as good as he was handsome.

Walter soothed Florence's tears and took her, ragged clothes and all, straight home to Solomon
Gills's shop, where his uncle gave her a warm supper, while Walter ran to the Dombey house
with the news that she was found, and to bring back a dress for her to wear.

So Florence's adventure turned out very well in one way, since through it she first met Walter
Gay; but it turned out badly in another way, for Mr. Dombey was angry that any one should have
seen a daughter of his in such a plight, and, unjustly enough, treasured this anger against
Walter. Florence, however, never forgot her rescuer after that day, and as for Walter, he fell
quite in love with her.

Florence loved her little brother very dearly, but Paul, in the constant companionship of his
father, grew up without boys or play. His face was old and wistful, and he had an old-fashioned
way of sitting, brooding in his little arm-chair beside his father, looking into the fire.
He used to ask strange, wise questions, and the only time he seemed childlike at all was when
he was with Florence. He was never strong and well, like her, but he grew tired easily, and
used to say that his bones ached.

Mr. Dombey at length grew anxious about Paul's health and sent him with Florence to Brighton,
a town on the sea-coast, to the house of a Mrs. Pipchin, a stooped old lady with a mottled
face, a hooked nose and a hard gray eye.

Mrs. Pipchin took little children to board, and her idea of "managing" them was to give them
everything they didn't like and nothing they did like. She lived in a gloomy house, so windy
that it always sounded to any one in it like a great shell which one had to hold to his ear
whether he liked it or not. The children there stayed most of the time in a bare room they
called "the dungeon," with a big ragged fireplace in it. They, had only bread and butter and
rice to eat, while Mrs. Pipchin had tea and mutton chops and buttered toast and other nice things.

Little Paul's father did not know what a dreary place this was for a child, or doubtless he
would not have sent him there. Mr. Dombey knew so little about children that it seemed as if
he had never been a child himself. Paul was not happy--except when he was out on the beach
with Florence, who used to draw him in a little carriage and sing to him and tell him stories.
Once a week Mr. Dombey came to Brighton and then she and little Paul would go to his hotel
to take tea with him.

Paul seemed to find a curious fascination in Mrs. Pipchin. He would sit by the hour before
the fire looking steadily at her, where she sat with her old black cat beside her, till his
gaze quite disturbed her. He did not care to play with other children--only with Florence,
whom he called "Floy." Often, as they sat together on the beach, he would ask her what it was
the sea was always saying, and would rise up on his couch to listen to something he seemed
to hear, far, far away.

Walter Gay, meanwhile, in London, was working away and thinking often of Florence. He was greatly
worried about his Uncle Solomon, for the business of the old instrument maker was in a bad
way, and Old Sol himself was melancholy.

One day Walter came home from his work at Dombey and Son's to find that an officer had taken
possession of the shop and all that was in it for debt. His old Uncle Sol was sobbing like
a child, and not knowing what else to do, he went post-haste for Captain Cuttle.

He found the captain with his hat on, peeling potatoes with a knife screwed into the wooden
socket in his wrist instead of the hook. When he told him what had happened, Captain Cuttle
jumped up, put all the money he had, his silver watch, some spoons and a pair of sugar-tongs
into his pocket and went back at once with him to the shop.

But the debt, he found, was far too big to be thus paid, and Captain Cuttle advised Walter
to go to Mr. Dombey and ask him to help them, or else everything in the shop would have to
be sold, and that would kill old Solomon Gills.

It was Saturday, and Mr. Dombey had gone to see little Paul, so Walter and Captain Cuttle took
the next coach for Brighton.

They found him with the children at breakfast, and Walter, discouraged by his cold look, faltered
lamely through his story, while Captain Cuttle laid on the table the money, the watch, the
spoons and the sugar-tongs, offering them to help pay the debt. Mr. Dombey was astonished at
his strange appearance and indignant at being annoyed by such an errand, so that Florence,
seeing his mood and Walter's trouble, began to sob. Little Paul, however, stood looking from
Walter to his father so intently and wisely that the latter, telling him he was one day to
be a part of Dombey and Son, asked him if he would like to loan Walter the money.

Paul joyfully said yes, and Mr. Dombey, telling Walter that it was to be considered a loan
from the boy, gave him a note which would at once release his uncle from his difficulty. So
Walter and Captain Cuttle went gladly back to London.

Soon after this, when Paul was six years old, his father thought he should be studying, so
he put him in a school next door to Mrs. Pipchin's.

The master was Doctor Blimber, a portly gentleman in knee-breeches, with a bald head and a
double chin. He made all the boys there study much too hard; even those only six years old
had to learn Greek and history. Poor little Paul did the best he could, but such difficult
tasks made him giddy and dull. It was only the Saturdays he enjoyed; these he spent with Florence
on the seashore or in Mrs. Pipchin's bare room.

Paul would have broken down sooner under Doctor Blimber's system but that Florence bought all
the books he studied and studied them herself, so as to help him on Saturdays. People called
him "old-fashioned," and that troubled him a great deal, but he tried to love even the old
watch-dog at Doctor Blimber's, and before the holidays came everybody in the school liked him.

But before the term ended little Paul fell sick. He seemed not to be ill of any particular
disease, but only weak; so weak he had to sit propped up with pillows at the entertainment
Doctor Blimber gave on the final evening. After that everything was hazy until he found himself,
somehow, at home in bed, with Florence beside him.

He lay there day after day, watching and dreaming. He dreamed often of a swift, silent river
that flowed on and on, and he wanted to stop it with his hands.

"Why will it never stop, Floy?" he would ask her. "It is bearing me away, I think."

There were many shadowy figures that came and went. One came often and sat long, but never
spoke. One day he saw it was his father, and he called out to it: "Don't be so sorry for me,
dear papa. Indeed, I am quite happy."

Once he roused himself, and there were many about the bed: Florence, his father, his old nurse
and Walter Gay, and he called each by name and waved his hand to them.

Florence took him in her arms and he heard the swift river flowing.

"How fast it runs, Floy! It is taking me with it. There is a shore before me now. Who is standing
on the bank?"

He put his hands together behind her neck, as he had been used to do at his prayers.

"Mama is like you, Floy," he said. "I know her by her face. The light about the head is shining
upon me as I go."

So little Paul died.

II

HOW FLORENCE LOST HER FATHER

It was a sad, sad house for many days after that, and Florence, in her loneliness, often thought
her heart would break. Her father she scarcely ever saw, for he sat alone in his room. Every
night she would steal down the dark hall to his door, and lay her head against the panels,
hungering for a little love; but he thought only of his dead son, and gave no sign of tenderness
to her.

One of Doctor Blimber's pupils begged for and brought her Diogenes, the old watch-dog which
little Paul had petted at the school and this dog was all she had to love. She had not seen
Walter Gay since the death of her brother, though he himself thought of her very often.

Walter's prospects, thanks to an enemy he had made without knowing it, had changed since then.
This enemy was Carker, the manager at Dombey and Son's.

Carker was a thin man, with the whitest, most regular teeth, which he continually showed in
an unpleasant smile. There was something cat-like about him; the more he disliked a person
the wider was his smile. Carker had a brother whom he hated, and Walter unconsciously earned
his enmity by liking and being kind to this brother.

Mr. Dombey was not fond of Walter either, the less so because Florence liked him, and disliking
Florence, he disliked all for whom she cared. So, between Mr. Dombey and Carker, Walter was
ordered to go, on business for the firm, on a long voyage to the West Indies.

Walter was not deceived. He knew he was not sent there for his own good, but in order not to
worry his uncle he and Captain Cuttle pretended that it was a splendid opportunity. So old
Solomon Gills tried not to sorrow for his going.

Florence heard of the voyage, and, the night before Walter sailed, in she came to the little
shop where Walter had brought her years before when she had been lost. She kissed Old Sol and
called Walter her brother, and said she would never forget him.

And so Walter, when next day he sailed away, waving his hand to his uncle and Captain Cuttle,
went with even more of love in his heart for Florence than he had had.

After his going Florence was lonelier than before. She was all alone, save for the dog Diogenes
and her books and music. Her father was much away, and in the evenings she could go into his
room and nestle in his easy chair without fear of repulse. She kept the room in order and a
fresh nosegay on the table, and never left it without leaving on his deserted desk a kiss and
a tear. The purpose of her life, she determined, should be to try continually to let her father
know how much she loved him.

But months passed and she had no chance. Her father, in fact, seldom came near the house. He
was away visiting in the country with a Major Bagstock, who had struck up an acquaintance with
him because of Mr. Dombey's wealth.

Bagstock (who had a habit of referring to himself as "J. B." or "Joey B.," or almost anything
but his full name) was as fat as a dancing bear, with a purple, apoplectic-looking face, and
a laugh like a horse's cough. He was a glutton, and stuffed himself so at meals that he did
little but choke and wheeze through the latter half of them. He was a great flatterer, however,
and he flattered so well that Mr. Dombey, blind from his own pride, thought him a very proper
person indeed. And even though everybody laughed at the major, Mr. Dombey always found him
most agreeable company.

There was an old lady at the town they visited who was poor, but very fond of fashion and rich
people. She had no heart, and was silly enough, even though she was seventy years old, to wear
rouge on her cheeks and dress like a girl of seventeen. She had a widowed daughter, Edith Granger,
a proud, lovely woman, who despised the life her mother led, but, in spite of this, was weak
enough to be influenced by her.

Major Bagstock introduced Mr. Dombey to the mother, and the latter soon made up her mind that
her daughter should marry him. The major (who wanted Mr. Dombey to marry so he himself could
profit by the dinners and entertainments that would follow) helped this affair on all he could,
and Edith, though at times she hated herself for the false part she was playing, agreed to it.

To tell the truth, Mr. Dombey was so full of his own conceit that he never stopped to wonder
if Edith could really love him. She was beautiful and as cold and haughty as he was himself,
and that was all he considered. So Major Bagstock and the old lady were soon chuckling and
wheezing together with delight at the success of their plan, and before long Edith had promised
to marry Florence's father.

Poor Florence! She had other griefs of her own by this time. Carker, of Dombey and Son, with
the false smile and the white teeth, came several times to see her, asking if she had messages
to send to her father--each time seeming purposely to wound her by recalling her father's dislike.
She tried to like the smooth, oily manager, but there was something in his face she could not
but distrust.

To add to her trouble, the ship by which Walter Gay had sailed for the West Indies had not
yet arrived there. It was long overdue, and in the absence of news people began to fear it
had been lost. She went to the little shop where the wooden midshipman stood, but found old
Solomon Gills and Captain Cuttle in as great anxiety.

Old Sol, indeed, was soon in such distress for fear Walter had been drowned, that he felt he
could bear the suspense no longer. One day, soon after Florence's visit, he disappeared from
London, leaving a letter for Captain Cuttle.

This letter said he had gone to the West Indies to search for Walter, and asked the captain
to care for the little shop and keep it open, so that it could be a home for his nephew if
he should ever appear. As for himself, Old Sol said if he did not return within a year he would
be dead, and the captain should take the shop for his own.

The disappearance of his old friend was a great blow to bluff Captain Cuttle, but, determined
to do his part, he left his own lodgings and took up his place at the sign of the wooden midshipman
to wait for news either of Walter or of old Solomon Gills.

Florence knew nothing about this, for the captain had not the heart to tell her. And, for her
own part, she had much to think of in the approaching marriage of her father, in preparation
for which the house was full of painters and paper-hangers, making it over for the bride.

The first time Florence saw Edith was when one day she entered the parlor to find her father
there with a strange, beautiful lady beside him. Mr. Dombey told her the lady would soon be
her mama, and Edith, touched by the child's sweet face, bent down and kissed her so tenderly
that Florence, so starved for affection, began at that moment to love her, and to hope through
Edith's love finally to win the love of her father.

The wedding was a very grand one, and many people were at the church to see it. Even Captain
Cuttle watched it from the gallery, and Carker's smile, as he looked on, showed more of his
white teeth than ever. The only thing that marred Florence's happiness and hope on this day
was the knowledge that Walter had not been heard from and the fear that he might never return.

But in spite of her brave hope, after her father and Edith came back from their wedding journey
and the life of parties and dinners began, Florence was soon disheartened. In the first flush
of confidence she opened all her soul to Edith and begged her to teach her to win her father's
liking. But Edith, knowing (as Florence did not know) how she had sold herself in this rich
marriage and that she had no particle of love in her heart for her husband, told her sadly
that she could not help her. This puzzled Florence greatly, for she loved Edith and knew that
Edith loved her in return.

In fact, it was Florence's trust and innocence that made Edith's conscience torture her the
more. In Florence's pure presence she felt more and more unworthy, and the knowledge that her
husband's hardness of heart was crushing the child's life and happiness made her hate him.

Florence saw, before many months passed, that her father and Edith did not live in love and
contentment. Indeed, how could they? She had married for ambition, he for pride, and neither
loved nor would yield to the other. They had not the same friends or acquaintances. Hers were
people of fashion; his were men of business. At the dinners they gave, Mr. Dombey did not think
Edith treated his friends politely enough. He began to reprove her more and more often, and
when she paid no heed he finally chid her openly and sternly in the presence of Carker (who
brought his smile and gleaming teeth often to the house), knowing this action would most wound
Edith's pride. And at length he took the management of the house out of her hands and hired
as housekeeper Mrs. Pipchin, the old ogre of Brighton, at whose house Florence and little Paul
had once lived.

The worst of it all was that the more Mr. Dombey grew to dislike his wife the more he saw she
loved Florence, and this made him detest the poor child more than ever. He imagined, in his
cruel selfishness, that as Florence had come between him and the love of little Paul, so she
was now coming between him and his wife. Finally he sent Carker to Edith, telling her she must
no longer sit or talk with Florence--that they must see each other only in his presence.

Florence's cup of bitterness was now almost full, for she knew nothing of this command, and,
when she saw that Edith avoided her, sorrowed in secret. She was quite alone again now, save
for Diogenes. Neither Major Bagstock, her father's flatterer, nor Carker, with his cat-like
smile, could she see without a shudder, and all the while her heart was aching for her father's
love.

Mr. Dombey's insults were heaped more and more upon the defenseless Edith, till at last, made
desperate by his pride and cruelty, she prepared a terrible revenge. On the morning of the
anniversary of their wedding-day Mr. Dombey was startled by the news that Edith had run away
with the false-hearted Carker!

On that terrible morning, when the proud old man sat stunned in his room, Florence, yielding
to her first impulse of grief and pity for him, ran to him to comfort him. But when she would
have thrown her arms around his neck he lifted his arm and struck her so that she tottered.

And as he did so he bade her follow Edith, since they had always been in league!

In that blow Florence felt at last his cruelty, neglect and hatred trampling down any feeling
of compassion he may once have had for her. She saw she had no longer a father she could love;
and, wringing her hands, with her head bent to hide her agony of tears, ran out of the house
that could no more be her home, into the heartless street.

III

HOW FLORENCE REACHED A REFUGE

For a long time she ran without purpose, weeping, and not knowing where to go. But at last
she thought of the day, so many years before, when she had been lost and when Walter Gay had
found her. He had taken her then to the shop of his uncle, old Solomon Gills. There, she thought,
she might at least find shelter.

When she got to the sign of the wooden midshipman she had just enough strength to knock and
push open the door, and then, at sight of Captain Cuttle's honest face, all her strength left
her, and she fainted on the threshold.

Captain Cuttle was cooking his breakfast. He knew her at once, even though she had grown to
be a young lady. He lifted her and laid her on the sofa, calling her his "lady lass," and bathed
her face in cold water till she opened her eyes and knew him. She told him all her story, and
he comforted her, and told her the shop should be her home just as long as she would stay in
it. When she had eaten some toast and drunk some tea he made her lie down in the little upper
room and sleep till she woke refreshed at evening.

When she came down the stair she found Captain Cuttle cooking dinner. He seemed to her then
to have some great, joyful and mysterious secret. All through the evening and until she went
to bed he would persist in drawing the conversation around to Walter, which brought the tears
again and again to her eyes.

Then he would rumble out, "Wal'r's drown-ded, ain't he, pretty?" and nod his head and look
very wise.

Indeed, Captain Cuttle did have a wonderful secret. While Florence had been sleeping he had
received a great piece of news: Walter, whom every one had believed drowned, had escaped death
alone of all on the wrecked vessel. He had clung to a spar when the ship went down, and had
been picked up by a vessel going in another direction, so he had had no way of sending back
news of his safety. The ship that had rescued him had at last brought him back to London, and
it would not be long now before he would appear at the shop.

You may guess Captain Cuttle's heart was full of thankfulness. But, not knowing much about
such matters, he had an idea that the good news must be broken very gently to Florence. So
at last he commenced to tell her a story about a shipwreck in which only one was saved, and
then she began to suspect the truth and her heart beat joyfully. Just as he finished the story
the door opened. There was Walter himself, alive and well, and with a cry of joy she sprang
to his arms.

There was much to talk of that night in the little shop. With her face on Captain Cuttle's
shoulder, Florence told him how and why she had left her home. Very soon after that he told
Florence that he loved her--not as a brother, but as something even dearer--and she promised
to be his wife.

On the evening before their wedding-day one more surprise came to them. They were all gathered
in the shop when the outer door opened. Captain Cuttle suddenly hit the table a terrific blow
with his hook, shouted "Sol Gills, ahoy!" and tumbled into the arms of a man in an old, weather-beaten
coat. It was old Solomon Gills indeed, returned from his long search, and now, to see Walter
there, weeping with joy.

In another moment Walter and Florence were both in his arms, too, and everybody was laughing
and crying and talking together. Old Sol had been half-way around the world in his search for
Walter, but had finally heard of his safety and started home, knowing he would go there also.
It was a very joyous evening, that last evening of Florence's girl life.

The next morning Walter and Florence paid an early visit to the grave of little Paul. She bade
it a long good-by, for Walter had become an officer of a ship and she was to make the coming
voyage with her husband. Then they went to the church, where they were married, and a few days
later they sailed away to China (with Captain Cuttle's big watch and sugar-tongs and teaspoons,
that he had once offered to Mr. Dombey, for wedding presents), content in each other's love.

Often, indeed, in this happy honeymoon Florence remembered the father who had spurned her.
But Walter's love had taken away the bitterness of that thought. She tried to love her father
now rather as she loved the memory of little Paul--not as a cruel, cold, living man, but as
some one who had once lived and who might once have loved her.

IV

HOW FLORENCE FOUND HER FATHER AT LAST

Mr. Dombey, alone in the silent house, had made no search for Florence. His pride bade him
hide all traces of his grief and rage from the world. He had only one thought--to find where
Carker had fled with his wife, to follow and to kill him. He hired detectives and at last discovered
that Carker had gone to a certain city in France. And to that place he followed him.

Now Edith, desperate as she had been, had not really been so wicked as Mr. Dombey supposed
her. She had deserted him, but she had not run away with Carker. In all the trouble between
herself and Mr. Dombey, Carker (the smooth, smiling hypocrite!) had labored to make matters
worse. He had lied to Mr. Dombey about his wife and taunted her with her position, and done
everything in his power to make them hate each other more bitterly. At last, when he saw Edith
could bear it no longer, he had begged her to run away with him, and when she refused, he had
threatened her in many cowardly ways. But Edith hated him as much as she disliked her husband,
and had not the least idea of running away with him. She had pretended to Carker that she would
do so, and had led her husband and everybody else to think she had done so, but this was only
to wound her husband's pride, and to punish him for all his tortures. Carker had followed her
to France, but, once there, he had found the tables turned. Edith laughed at him and scorned
him, and sent him from her, baffled and furious.

Carker was thus caught in his own trap. He had lost his own position and reputation, and had
gained nothing for all his evil plots. And besides this, he was a fugitive, and Mr. Dombey,
the man he had wronged, was on his track.

When he learned his enemy had followed him to France, Carker, raging, but cowardly, fled back
to England; and back to England Edith's revengeful husband followed him day and night. The
wicked manager knew no more peace or rest. He traveled into the country, seeking some lonely
village in which to hide, but he could not shake off that grim pursuer.

They met at last face to face one day on a railroad platform when neither was expecting to
see the other.

In the surprise of the meeting, Carker's foot slipped--he stepped backward, directly in the
path of the engine that was roaring up the track. It caught him, and tossed him, and tore him
limb from limb, and its iron wheels crushed and ground him to pieces.

And that was the end of Carker, of the white teeth and false smile, and Mr. Dombey went back
to London, still proud and alone, still cold and forbidding.

But his conscience at last had begun to cry out against him, and to deafen its voice he plunged
more and more recklessly into business, spending money too lavishly, and taking risks of which,
in other days, he would not have thought.

The months went by and little by little the old firm of Dombey and Son became more entangled.
Soon there were whispers that the business was in difficulty, but Mr. Dombey did not hear them.
One morning the crash came. A bank closed and then suddenly the word went around that the old
firm had failed.

It was too true. The proud, hard-hearted merchant, who had driven his daughter from him, was
ruined and a beggar. His rich friends, whom he had treated so haughtily, shrugged their shoulders
and sneered. Even Major Bagstock at his club grew purple in the face with chuckling.

The servants were all sent away, most of the furniture was sold at a public sale, and the old
man, who had once been so proud and held his gray head so high, still sat on hour after hour
in the echoing house, so empty now that even the rats would not live in it. What was he thinking?

At last, in his agony, his sorrow, his remorse, his despair, he remembered Florence. He saw
again her trembling lips, her lonely face longing for love--the terrible hopeless change that
came over it when his own cruel arm struck her on that final day when she had stood before him.

His pride at last had fallen. He knew now himself what it was to be rejected and deserted.
He thought how the daughter he had disliked, of them all, had never changed in her love for
him. And by his own act he had lost her for ever. His son, his wife, his fortune, all had gone,
and now at last in his wretchedness he knew that Florence would always have been true to him
if he had only let her.

Days passed, but he never left the house; every night he wandered through the empty rooms like
a ghost. He grew to be a haggard, wasted likeness of himself. And one day the thought came
to him that it would be better if he, too, were dead, even if it be by his own hand. This thought
clung to him. He could not shake it off.

One day he took a pistol from his dressing-table and sat hugging it to his breast. At length
he rose and stood in front of a mirror with the weapon in his hand.

But suddenly he heard a cry--a piercing, loving, rapturous cry--and he saw at his feet, clasping
his knees, with her face lifted to his, Florence, his long-lost daughter.

"Papa, dearest papa!" she cried, "I have come back to you. I never can be happy more without you."

He tottered to a chair, feeling her draw his arms around her neck. He felt her wet cheek laid
against his own. He heard her soft voice telling him that now she herself had a little child--a
baby boy born at sea--whom she and Walter had named Paul.

"Dear papa," she said, "you will come home with me. We will teach our little child to love
and honor you, and we will tell him when he can understand that you had a son of that name
once, and that he died and that you were sorry; but that he is gone to Heaven, where we all
hope to see him sometime. Kiss me, papa, as a promise that you will be reconciled. Never let
us be parted any more!"

His hard heart had been melting while she spoke. As she clung closer to him he kissed her,
and she heard him mutter, "Oh, God forgive me, for I need it very much!"

She drew him to his feet, and walking with a feeble gait he went with her.

Mr. Dombey was very ill for a long time. When he recovered he was no longer his old self, but
a gentle, loving, white-haired old man. Walter did not go to sea again, but found a position
of great trust and confidence in London, and in their home the old man felt growing stronger
and stronger his new-found love for the daughter whom till now he had never really known.

Florence never saw Edith again but once. Then the latter came back to bid her farewell for
ever before she went to live in Italy. In these years Edith had seen her own pride and grieved
for her fault. There were tears in her stern, dark eyes when Florence asked if she would send
some message to Mr. Dombey.

"Tell him," she answered, "that if in his own present he can find a reason to think less bitterly
of me, I asked him to do so. I will try to forgive him his share of blame; let him try to forgive
me mine."

Time went happily by in the home of Walter and Florence. They often visited the little shop
where stood the wooden midshipman, now in a new suit of paint. The sign above the door had
become "Gills and Cuttle," for Old Sol and the Captain had gone into partnership, and the firm
had grown rich through the successes of some of Solomon Gills's old investments which had finally
turned out well.

Walter was beloved by everybody who knew him, and in time refounded the old firm of Dombey and Son.

Often in the summer, on the sea-beach, old Mr. Dombey might have been seen wandering with Florence's
little children. The oldest was little Paul, and he thought of him sometimes almost as of the
other little Paul who died.

But most of all the old gentleman loved the little girl. He could not bear to see her sit apart
or with a cloud on her face. He often stole away to look at her in her sleep, and was fondest
and most loving to her when there was no one by.

The child used to say then sometimes:

"Dear grandpa, why do you cry when you kiss me?"

But he would only answer, "Little Florence! Little Florence!" and smooth away the curls that
shaded her earnest eyes.

THE POSTHUMOUS PAPERS OF THE PICKWICK CLUB

Published 1836-1837

Scene: London, Neighboring Towns, Bath, and the Country

Time: 1827 to 1831

CHARACTERS

    Mr. Samuel Pickwick           A gentleman of an inquiring mind
              Founder and chairman of "The Pickwick Club"

    Sam Weller                                    His body-servant

    Mrs. Bardell                               His London landlady

    Tupman   }
             }
    Snodgrass}                      Members of "The Pickwick Club"
             }
    Winkle   }

    Alfred Jingle                 A strolling actor and adventurer
                   Later, known as "Fitz-Marshall"

    Job Trotter                                        His servant

    Mrs. Budger                                       A rich widow

    Doctor Slammer                                 An army surgeon
                        Mrs. Budger's suitor

    Mr. Wardle                                 A country gentleman
                    A friend of the Pickwickians

    Emily                                             His daughter

    Miss Wardle                                His spinster sister

    Joe                                       Mr. Wardle's footman
                       Known as "The Fat Boy"

    Tony Weller                       A stage driver. Mr. Samuel Pickwick, its founder and chairman, was a benevolent,
simple-hearted old gentleman of some wealth, with a taste for science.
He delighted to invent the most profound theories, to explain the most
ordinary happenings and to write long papers to be read before the Club.
He had a large bald head, and eyes that twinkled behind round
spectacles, and he made a speech with one hand under his coat tails and
the other waving in the air.

His fellow members looked upon Mr. Pickwick as a very great man, and when he proposed that
he and three others form a "Corresponding Society," which should travel about and forward to
the club accounts of their adventures, the idea was at once adopted.

The three that Mr. Pickwick chose were named Tupman, Snodgrass and Winkle. Tupman was middle-aged
with a double chin and was so fat that for years he had not seen the watch chain that crossed
his silk waistcoat. But he had a youthful, romantic disposition, and a great liking for the
fair sex. Snodgrass, who had no parents, was a ward of Mr. Pickwick's and imagined himself
a poet. Winkle was a young man whose father had sent him to London to learn life; he wore a
green shooting-coat and his great ambition was to be considered a sportsman, though at heart
he was afraid of either a horse or a gun. With these three companions Mr. Pickwick prepared
to set out in search of adventures.

Next morning as he drove in a cab to the inn where all were to take the coach, Mr. Pickwick
began to chat with the driver. The cabman amused himself by telling the most impossible things,
all of which Mr. Pickwick believed. When he said his horse was forty-two years old and that
he often kept him out three weeks at a time without resting, down it went in Mr. Pickwick's
note-book as a wonderful instance of the endurance of horses. Unfortunately, however, the driver
thought Mr. Pickwick was putting down the number of the cab so as to complain of him, and as
they arrived just then at the inn, he jumped from his seat with the intention of fighting his
dismayed passenger. He knocked off Mr. Pickwick's spectacles and, dancing back and forth as
the other's three comrades rushed to the rescue, planted a blow in Mr. Snodgrass's eye, another
in Tupman's waistcoat and ended by knocking all the breath out of Winkle's body.

From this dilemma they were rescued by a tall, thin, long-haired, young man in a faded green
coat, worn black trousers and patched shoes, who seized Mr. Pickwick and lugged him into the
inn by main force, talking with a jaunty independent manner and in rapid and broken sentences:

"This way, sir--where's your friends?--all a mistake--never mind--here, waiter--brandy and
water--raw beefsteak for the gentleman's eye--eh,--ha-ha!"

The seedy-looking stranger, whose name was Alfred Jingle, was a passenger on the same coach
that day and entertained the Pickwickians with marvelous stories of his life in Spain. None
of these was true, to be sure, but they were all entered in Mr. Pickwick's note-book. In gratitude,
that night the latter invited Jingle to dinner at the town inn where they stopped.

The dinner was long, and almost before it was over not only Mr. Pickwick, but Snodgrass and
Winkle also were asleep. Tupman, however, was more wakeful; a ball, the waiter had told him,
was to be held that night on the upper floor and he longed to attend it. Jingle readily agreed,
especially when Tupman said he could borrow for him a blue dress suit, the property of the
sleeping Winkle.

They were soon dressed and at the ball. Jingle's jaunty air gained him a number of introductions.
Before long he was dancing with a little old widow named Mrs. Budger, who was very rich, and
to whom he at once began to make love. There was an army surgeon present named Slammer--a short
fat man with a ring of upright black hair around his head, and a bald plain on top of it--who
had been courting the rich widow himself. Doctor Slammer was old; Jingle was young, and the
lady felt flattered. Every moment the doctor grew angrier and at last tried to pick a quarrel
with the wearer of the blue dress suit, at which Jingle only laughed. The ball over, Tupman
and Jingle went down stairs. Winkle's clothes were returned to their place, and Jingle, promising
to join the party at dinner next day, took his departure.

The Pickwickians were hardly awake next morning when an army officer came to the inn inquiring
which gentleman of their number owned a blue dress suit with gilt buttons. When told that Mr.
Winkle had such a costume he demanded to see him, and at once, in the name of his friend Doctor
Slammer, challenged him to fight a duel that night at sunset.

Poor Winkle almost fainted with surprise. When the stranger explained that the wearer of the
blue suit had insulted Doctor Slammer, Winkle concluded that he must have drunk too much wine
at dinner, changed his clothes, gone somewhere, and insulted somebody--of all of which he had
no recollection. He saw no way, therefore, but to accept the bloodthirsty challenge, hoping
that something would happen to prevent the duel.

Winkle was dreadfully afraid, for he had never fired a pistol in his life. He chose Snodgrass
for his second, hoping the latter would tell Mr. Pickwick; but Snodgrass, he soon found to
his dismay, had no idea of doing so. The day wore heavily away, and Winkle could think of no
escape. At sunset they walked to the appointed spot--a lonely field--and at last Winkle found
himself, pistol in hand, opposite another man armed likewise, and waiting the signal to shoot.

At that moment Doctor Slammer saw that the man he faced was not the one who had insulted him
at the ball. Explanations were soon made and the whole party walked back together to the inn,
where Winkle introduced his new friends to the Pickwickians. Jingle, however, was with the
latter, and Doctor Slammer at once recognized him as the wearer of the blue dress suit. The
doctor flew into a rage and only the statement of his fellow officer, that Jingle was not a
gentleman, but a strolling actor far beneath the doctor's dignity, prevented an encounter.
As it was, Slammer stumped off in anger, leaving the Pickwickians to enjoy the evening in their
own way. In the confusion of running officers and prancing horses they became separated from
one another. Mr. Pickwick, Snodgrass and Winkle found themselves between two lines of troops,
in danger of being run down. At this moment they saw Tupman standing in an open carriage near
by and, hurrying to it, were hoisted in.

The carriage belonged to a short, stout old gentleman named Wardle who had attended some of
the club's meetings in London and knew Mr. Pickwick by sight. He lived at a place near by called
Dingley Dell, from which he had driven to see the drill, with his old maid sister and his own
two pretty daughters. Fastened behind was a big hamper of lunch and on the box was a fat boy
named Joe, whom Mr. Wardle kept as a curiosity because he did nothing but eat and sleep. Joe
went on errands fast asleep and snored as he waited on the table. He had slept all through
the roaring of the cannon and the old gentleman had to pinch him awake to serve the luncheon.

They had a merry time that day, Tupman being deeply smitten with the charms of the elderly
Miss Wardle, and Snodgrass no less in love with Emily, one of the pretty daughters. When the
review was over the old gentleman invited them all to visit Dingley Dell next day.

Early in the morning they set out, Mr. Pickwick driving Tupman and Snodgrass in a chaise, while
Winkle rode on horseback to uphold his reputation as a sportsman. Mr. Pickwick was distrustful
of the horse he hired, but the hostler assured him that even a wagon-load of monkeys with their
tails burnt off would not make him shy.

Winkle had never ridden a horse before, but he was ashamed to admit it.

For a while all went well; then the luckless Winkle dropped his whip and when he dismounted
the horse would not let him mount again. Mr. Pickwick got out of the chaise to help, and at
this the animal jerked the bridle away and trotted home. Hearing the clatter the other horse
bolted, too. Snodgrass and Tupman jumped for their lives and the chaise was smashed to pieces
against a wooden bridge. With difficulty the horse was freed from the ruins and, leading him,
the four friends walked the seven miles to Dingley Dell, where they found Mr. Wardle and the
fat boy, the latter fast asleep as usual, posted in the lane to meet them.

Brushes, a needle and thread and some cherry-brandy soon cured their rents and bruises and
they forgot their misfortunes in an evening of pleasure. Mr. Wardle's mother was a deaf old
lady with an ear-trumpet, who loved to play whist. When she disliked a person she would pretend
she could not hear a word he said, but Mr. Pickwick's jollity and compliments made her forget
even to use her ear-trumpet. Tupman flirted with the spinster aunt and Snodgrass whispered
poetry into Emily's ear to his heart's content.

Next morning Mr. Wardle took Winkle rook-shooting. The pair set out with their guns, preceded
by the fat boy and followed by Mr. Pickwick, Snodgrass and the corpulent Tupman. Winkle, who
disliked to admit his ignorance of guns, showed it in a painful way. His first shot missed
the birds, and lodged itself in the arm of Tupman, who fell to the ground. The confusion that
followed can not be described. They bound up his wounds and supported him to the house, where
the ladies waited at the garden gate, Mr. Wardle calling out to them not to be frightened.

The warning, however, had no effect on the spinster aunt. At the sight of her Tupman wounded,
she began to scream. Old Mr. Wardle told her not to be a fool, but Tupman was affected almost
to tears and spoke her name with such romantic tenderness that the poor foolish lady felt quite
a flutter at her heart.

A surgeon found the wound a slight one, and as a cricket match was to be played that day, the
host left Tupman in the care of the ladies and carried off the others to the game.

When they reached the field, the first words that fell on Mr. Pickwick's ear made him start:

"This way--capital fun--glorious day--make yourself at home--glad to see you--very." It was
Jingle, still clad in his faded green coat. He had fallen in with the visiting players, and
by telling wonderful tales of the games he had played in the West Indies, soon convinced them
he was a great cricket player. Seeing him greet Mr. Pickwick, Mr. Wardle, thinking him a friend
of his guest, procured him an invitation to the dinner that followed the match. There Jingle
made good use of his time in eating and drinking, and at midnight was heard leading with great
effect the chorus:

    "We won't go home till morning."

Meanwhile, the romantic Tupman at Dingley Dell had been free to woo the middle-aged spinster.
This he did with such success that when evening came, he and she sat together in a vine-covered
arbor in the garden like a pair of carefully folded kid gloves--bound up in each other. He
had just printed a kiss on her lips when both looked up to see the fat boy, perfectly motionless,
staring into the arbor.

"Supper's ready," said the fat boy, and his look was so blank that they both concluded he must
have been asleep and had seen nothing.

It was long past midnight when a tremendous noise told that the absent ones had returned. All
rushed to the kitchen, where Jingle's voice was heard crying: "Cricket dinner--glorious party--capital
songs--very good--wine ma'am--wine!" Mr. Pickwick, Snodgrass and Winkle went to bed, but the
talkative Jingle remained with the ladies and before they retired had made Tupman almost mad
with jealousy by his attentions to the spinster aunt, who showed herself greatly pleased with
his politeness.

Now the fat boy, for once in his life, had not been asleep when he had announced supper that
evening. He had seen Tupman's love-making, and took the first occasion to tell the deaf old
lady, as she sat in the garden arbor next morning. He was obliged to shout it in her ear, and
thus the whole story was overheard by Jingle, who happened to be near.

The deceitful Jingle saw in this a chance to benefit himself. The spinster, he thought, had
money; what could he better do than turn her against Tupman, and marry her himself? With this
plan he went to Tupman, recited what the fat boy had told, and advised him, for a time, in
order to throw off the suspicions of the old lady and of Mr. Wardle, to pay special attention
to one of the younger daughters and to pretend to care nothing for the spinster. He told Tupman
that the latter herself had made this plan and wished him to carry it out for her sake. Tupman,
thinking it the wish of his lady-love, did this with such success that the old lady concluded
the fat boy must have been dreaming.

The spinster, however, thought Tupman false, and Jingle used the next few days to make such
violent love to her that the silly creature believed him, forgot Tupman, and agreed to run
away with the deceiver to London.

There was great excitement when their absence was discovered, and the wrathful Mr. Wardle and
Mr. Pickwick pursued them at once in a four-horse chaise. They rode all night and, reaching
London, at once began to inquire at various inns to find a trace of the runaway pair.

They came at length to one called The White Hart, in whose courtyard a round-faced man-servant
was cleaning boots. This servant, whose name was Sam Weller, wore a coat with blue glass buttons,
a bright red handkerchief tied around his neck and an old white hat stuck on the side of his
head. He spoke with a quaint country accent, but he was a witty fellow, with a clever answer
for every one.

"Werry well, I'm agreeable," he said when Mr. Pickwick gave him a gold piece. "What the devil
do you want with me, as the man said when he see the ghost?"

With Sam Weller's aid, they soon found that Jingle and the spinster were there, and entered
the room in which the couple sat at the very moment Jingle was showing the marriage license
which he had just brought. The spinster at once went into violent hysterics, and Jingle, seeing
the game was up, accepted the sum of money which Mr. Wardle offered him to take himself off.

There were deep lamentations when the confiding spinster found herself deserted by the faithless
Jingle, and slowly and sadly Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Wardle bore her back to Dingley Dell.

The heartbroken Tupman had already left there, and with feelings of gloom Mr. Pickwick, with
Snodgrass and Winkle, also departed. For a long time she had secretly adored her benevolent
lodger, as some one far above her own humble station.

Mr. Pickwick had not forgotten Sam Weller, the servant who had aided in the pursuit of Jingle,
and on returning to London he wrote, asking Sam to come to see him, intending to offer him
a position as body-servant. Sam came promptly and Mr. Pickwick then proceeded to tell his landlady
of his plan--a more or less delicate matter, since it would cause some change in her household
affairs. "That depends on whether it's a saving person."

"Very true," said Mr. Pickwick, "but the person I have in my eye"--here he looked at Mrs. Bardell--"has
this quality. And to tell you the truth, I have made up my mind."

Mrs. Bardell blushed to her cap border. Her lodger was going to propose! "Oh, Mr. Pickwick!"
she said, "you're very kind, sir. I'm sure I ought to be a very happy woman."

"It'll save you a deal of trouble," Mr. Pickwick went on, "and when I'm in town you'll always
have somebody to sit with you."

The astonished Mr. Pickwick struggled violently, pleading and reproving, but in vain. Mrs.
Bardell clung the tighter, and exclaiming frantically that she would never leave him, fainted
away in his arms. At the same moment Tupman, Winkle and Snodgrass entered the room. Mr. Pickwick
tried to explain, but in their faces he read that they suspected him of making love to the widow.

This reflection made him miserable and ill at ease. He lost no time in taking Sam Weller into
his service, on condition that he travel with the Pickwickians in their further search for
adventures, and at once proposed to his three comrades another journey.

Next day, therefore, found them on the road for Eatanswill, a town near London which was then
on the eve of a political election. This was a very exciting struggle and interested them greatly.

Here, one morning soon after their arrival, a fancy dress breakfast was given by Mrs. Leo Hunter,
a lady who had once written an Ode to an Expiring Frog and who made a great point of knowing
everybody who was at all celebrated for anything. All of the Pickwickians attended the breakfast.
Mr. Pickwick's dignity was too great for him to don a fancy costume, but the rest wore them,
Tupman going as a bandit in a green velvet coat with a two-inch tail.

Mrs. Leo Hunter herself, in the character of Minerva, insisted on presenting Mr. Pickwick to
all the guests.

In the midst of the gaiety Mrs. Leo Hunter's husband called out: "My dear, here comes Mr. Fitz-Marshall,"
and, to his astonishment, Mr. Pickwick heard a well-known voice exclaiming: "Coming, my dear
ma'am--crowds of people--full room--hard work--very!"

It was Jingle. Mr. Pickwick indignantly faced him, but the impostor, at the first glance turned
and fled. Mr. Pickwick, after hurriedly questioning his hostess, who told him Mr. Fitz-Marshall
lived at an inn in a village not far away, left the entertainment instantly, bent on pursuit.
With Sam Weller, his faithful servant, he took the next stage-coach and nightfall found him
lodged in a room in that very inn, while Sam set himself to discover Jingle's whereabouts.

With the money Mr. Wardle had paid him Jingle had set up as a gentleman: he even had a servant--a
sneaking fellow with a sallow, solemn face and lank hair, named Job Trotter, who could burst
into tears whenever it suited his purpose and whose favorite occupation seemed to be reading
a hymn-book. Sam Weller soon picked an acquaintance with Job, and it was not long before the
latter confided to him that Jingle his master (whom he pretended to think very wicked) had
plotted to run away that same night, with a beautiful young lady from a boarding-school just
outside the village, at which he was a frequent caller. Job said his master was such a villain
that he had made up his mind to betray him.

Sam took Job to Mr. Pickwick, to whom he repeated his tale, adding that he and his master were
to be let into the school building at ten o'clock, and that if Mr. Pickwick would climb over
the garden wall and tap on the kitchen door a little before midnight, he, Job, would let him
in to catch Jingle in the very act of eloping.

This seemed to Mr. Pickwick a good plan, and he proceeded to act upon it. In good time that
night Sam hoisted him over the high garden-wall of the school, after which he returned to the
inn, while his master stealthily approached the building.

It was very still. When the church chimes struck half-past eleven Mr. Pickwick tapped on the
door. Instead of being opened by Job, however, a servant-girl appeared with a candle. Mr. Pickwick
had presence of mind enough to hide behind the door as she opened it. She concluded the noise
must have been the cat.

Mr. Pickwick did not know what was best to do. To make matters worse, a thunder-storm broke
and he had no refuge from the rain. He was thoroughly drenched before he dared repeat the signal.

This time windows were thrown open and frightened voices demanded "Who's there?" Mr. Pickwick
was in a dreadful situation. He protested that he was no robber--that he would even consent
to be tied or locked up, only to convince them. A closet stood in the hall; as a pledge of
good faith he stepped inside it. Its door was quickly locked and only then the trembling principal
consented to listen to him. By the time he had told his story, he knew that he had been cruelly
hoaxed by Jingle and Job Trotter. She knew not even the name of Mr. Fitz-Marshall. For her
own part she was certain Mr. Pickwick was crazy, and he had to stay in the stuffy closet over
an hour while at his request some one was sent to find Sam Weller.

The latter came at length, bringing with him old Mr. Wardle, who, as it happened, unknown to
Mr. Pickwick, was stopping at the inn. Explanations were made and Mr. Pickwick, choking with
wrath, returned to the inn to find Jingle and his servant gone, and to be, himself, for some
time thereafter, a prey to rheumatism.

A serious matter at this juncture called Mr. Pickwick home. This was a legal summons notifying
him that Mrs. Bardell, his landlady, had brought a suit for damages against him, claiming he
had promised to marry her and had then run away. A firm of tricky lawyers had persuaded her
to this in the hope of getting some money out of it themselves. Mr. Pickwick was very angry,
but there was nothing for it but to hire a lawyer, so he and Sam Weller set out without delay.

"How's mother-in-law?" asked Sam.

The elder Mr. Weller shook his head as he replied, "I've done it once too often, Samivel. Take
example by your father, my boy, and be very careful o' widders, 'specially if they've kept
a public house."

Mrs. Weller the second, indeed, was the proprietress of a public house. To a shrill voice and
a complaining disposition she added a dismal sort of piety which showed itself in much going
to meeting, in considering her husband a lost and sinful wretch and in the entertaining of
a prim-faced, red-nosed, rusty old hypocrite of a preacher who sat by her fireside every evening
consuming quantities of toast and pineapple rum, and groaning at the depravity of her husband,
who declined to give money to the preacher's society for sending flannel waistcoats and colored
handkerchiefs to the infant negroes of the West Indies. As may be imagined, Sam's father led
a sorry life at home.

The meeting with the elder Weller proved a fortunate one, for when Sam told of their experiences
with Jingle and Job Trotter, his father declared that he himself had driven the pair to the
town of Ipswich, where they were then living. Nothing would satisfy Mr. Pickwick, when he heard
this, but pursuit, and he and Sam set out next morning by coach, Mr. Pickwick having written
to the other Pickwickians to follow him.

On the coach was a red-haired man with an inquisitive nose and blue spectacles, whose name
was Mr. Peter Magnus, and with whom (since they stopped at the same inn) Mr. Pickwick dined
on his arrival. Mr. Magnus, before they parted for the night, grew confidential and informed
him that he had come there to propose to a lady who was in the inn at that very moment.

For some time after he retired, Mr. Pickwick sat in his bedroom thinking. At length he rose
to undress, when he remembered he had left his watch down stairs, and taking a candle he went
to get it. He found it easily, but to retrace his steps proved more difficult. A dozen doors
he thought his own, and a dozen times he turned a door-knob only to hear a gruff voice within.
At last he found what he thought was his own room, the door ajar. The wind had blown out his
candle, but the fire was bright, and Mr. Pickwick, as he retired behind the bed curtains to
undress, smiled till he almost cracked his nightcap strings as he thought of his wanderings.

Suddenly the smile faded--some one had entered the room and locked the door. "Robbers!" thought
Mr. Pickwick. He peered out between the curtains and almost fainted with horror. Standing before
the mirror was a middle-aged lady in yellow curl papers, brushing her back-hair.

"Bless my soul!" thought Mr. Pickwick. "I must be in the wrong room. This is fearful!"

He waited a while, then coughed, first gently, then more loudly.

"A strange man!" exclaimed the lady with a terrific scream.

Mr. Pickwick put out his head in desperation.

"Wretch!" she said, covering her face with her hands. "What do you want here?"

"Nothing, ma'am--nothing whatever, ma'am," said Mr. Pickwick earnestly. (here Mr. Pickwick
gave it a tremendous tug). It is evident to me now that I have mistaken this bedroom for my own."

"If this be true," said the lady sobbing violently, "you will leave it instantly."

"Certainly, ma'am," answered Mr. Pickwick appearing, "I--I--am very sorry, ma'am."

The lady pointed to the door. With his hat on over his nightcap, his shoes in his hand and
his coat over his arm, Mr. Pickwick opened the door, dropping both shoes with a crash. "I trust,
ma'am," he resumed, bowing very low, "that my unblemished character--" but before he could
finish the sentence the lady had thrust him into the hall and bolted the door.

Luckily Mr. Pickwick met, coming along the corridor, the faithful Sam Weller who took him safely
to his room. Job tried at first to disguise himself by making a horrible face, but Sam was
not to be deceived, and finding this trick vain, the other burst into tears of joy to see him.

Job told Sam that his master, Jingle, had bribed the mistress of the boarding-school to deny
to Mr. Pickwick that she knew him, and had then cruelly deserted the beautiful young lady for
a richer one. But this time Sam was too wise to believe anything Job said.

Meanwhile, in the inn, Mr. Pickwick was giving Mr. Peter Magnus some good advice as to the
best method of proposing. The latter finally plucked up his courage, saw the lady, proposed
to her, and was accepted. In his gratitude, he insisted on taking Mr. Pickwick to be introduced
to her.

The instant he saw her, however, Mr. Pickwick uttered an exclamation, and the lady, with a
slight scream, hid her face in her hands. She was none other than the owner of the room into
which Mr. Pickwick had intruded the night before.

Mr. Peter Magnus, in astonishment, demanded where and when they had seen each other before.
This the lady declared she would not reveal for the world, and Mr. Pickwick likewise refusing,
the other flew into a jealous rage, which ended in his rushing from the room swearing he would
challenge Mr. Pickwick to mortal combat. Tupman, Winkle and Snodgrass being announced at that
moment, Mr. Pickwick joined them, and the middle-aged lady was left alone in a state of terrible
alarm.

The longer she thought the more terrified she became at the idea of possible bloodshed and
harm to her lover. At length, overcome by dread, and knowing no other way to stop the duel,
she hastened to the house of the mayor of the town, a pompous magistrate named Nupkins, and
begged him to stop the duel. Not wishing to make trouble for Mr. Peter Magnus, she declared
that the two rioters who threatened to disturb the peace of the town were named Pickwick and
Tupman; these two, Nupkins, thinking them cutthroats from London, at once sent men to arrest.

Mr. Pickwick was just telling his followers the story of his mishap of the night before, when
a half-dozen officers burst into the room. Boiling with indignation, Mr. Pickwick had to submit,
and the officers put him and Tupman into an old sedan-chair and carried them off, followed
by Winkle and Snodgrass and by all the town loafers.

Sam Weller met the procession and tried to rescue them, but was knocked down and taken prisoner
also. So they were all brought to Nupkins's house.

The mayor refused to hear a word Mr. Pickwick said and was about to send them all to jail as
desperate characters when Sam Weller called his master aside and whispered to him that the
house they were in was the very one from which he had seen Job Trotter come, and from this
fact he guessed that Jingle himself had wormed himself into the good graces of the mayor. At
this Mr. Pickwick asked to have a private talk with Nupkins.

This was grudgingly granted and in a few moments Mr. Pickwick had learned that Jingle, calling
himself "Captain Fitz-Marshall," had imposed so well on the pompous mayor that the latter's
wife and daughter had introduced him everywhere and he himself had boasted to everybody of
his acquaintance.

It was Nupkins's turn to feel humble when Mr. Pickwick told him Jingle's real character. He
was terribly afraid the story would get out and that the town would laugh at him, so he became
all at once tremendously polite, declared their arrest had been all a mistake and begged the
Pickwickians to make themselves at home. Sam Weller was sent down to the kitchen to get his
dinner, where he met a pretty housemaid named Mary, with whom he proceeded to fall very much
in love for the first time in his life.

Jingle and Job walked into the trap a little later, not expecting the kind of reception they
were to find there. But even before the combined scorn of Nupkins, Mrs. Nupkins, Miss Nupkins
and the Pickwickians, Jingle showed a brazen front. He knew pride would prevent the mayor from
exposing him, and when finally shown the door, he left with a mocking jeer, followed by the
chuckling Job.

In spite of his own troubles Mr. Pickwick left Ipswich comforted by the defeat of Jingle. As
for Sam, he kissed the pretty housemaid behind the door and they parted with mutual regrets.

To atone for these difficult adventures, the Pickwickians prepared for a long visit to Dingley
Dell, where they spent an old-fashioned Merry Christmas; where they found the fat boy even
fatter and Mr. Wardle even jollier; where Tupman was not saddened by the sight of his lost
love, the spinster aunt, who had been sent to live with another relative; where Snodgrass came
more than ever to admire Emily, the pretty daughter; where Winkle fell head over ears in love
with a black-eyed young lady visitor named Arabella Allen, who wore a nice little pair of boots
with fur around the top; where they went skating and Mr. Pickwick broke through, and had to
be carried home and put to bed; where they hung mistletoe and told stories, and altogether
enjoyed themselves in a hundred ways.

Ben Allen, Arabella's brother, reached Dingley Dell on Christmas Day--a thick-set, mildewy
young man, with short black hair, a long white face and spectacles. He was a medical student,
and brought with him his chum, Bob Sawyer, a slovenly, smart, swaggering young gentleman, who
smelled strongly of tobacco smoke and looked like a dissipated Robinson Crusoe. Ben intended
that his chum should marry his sister Arabella, and Bob Sawyer paid her so much attention that
Winkle began to hate him on the spot.

The Christmas merrymaking was all too soon over, and as Mrs. Bardell's lawsuit against Mr.
Pickwick was shortly to be tried, the Pickwickians returned regretfully to the city.

VI

    THE CELEBRATED CASE OF BARBELL AGAINST PICKWICK.
             SERGEANT BUZFUZ'S SPEECH AND
                AN UNEXPECTED VERDICT

On the morning of the trial Mr. Pickwick went to court certain that the outcome would be in
his favor. The room was full of people, and all the Pickwickians were there when he arrived.
The Judge was a very short man, so plump that he seemed all face and waistcoat. When he had
rolled in upon two little turned legs, and sat down at his desk, all you could see of him was
two little eyes, one broad pink face, and about half of a comical, big wig. Scarcely had the
jurors taken their seats, when Mrs. Bardell's lawyers brought in the lady herself, half hysterical,
and supported by two tearful lady friends. The ushers called for silence and the trial began.

The lawyer who spoke for Mrs. Bardell was named Sergeant Buzfuz, a blustering man with a fat
body and a red face. He began by picturing Mr. Pickwick's housekeeper as a lonely widow who
had been heartlessly deceived by the villainy of her lodger. He declared that for two years,
Mrs. Bardell had attended to Mr. Pickwick's comforts, that once he had patted her little boy
on the head and asked him how he would like to have another father; that he had also asked
her to marry him, and on the same day had been seen by three of his friends holding her in
his arms and soothing her agitation. Drawing forth two scraps of paper, Sergeant Buzfuz went on:

"Gentlemen, one word more. Two letters have passed between these parties, which speak volumes.
They are not open, fervent letters of affection. They are sly, underhanded communications evidently
intended by Pickwick to mislead and delude any one into whose hands they might fall. The next
has no date. Why is Mrs. Bardell begged not to trouble herself about this warming-pan, unless
(as is no doubt the case) it is a mere substitute for some endearing word or promise, cunningly
used by Pickwick, with a view to his intended desertion?

"But enough of this, gentlemen. It is hard to smile with an aching heart. My client's hopes
are ruined. All is gloom in the house; the child's sports are forgotten while his mother weeps.
Damages, gentlemen, heavy damages is the only punishment with which you can visit him. And
for these damages, my client now appeals to a high-minded, a right-feeling, a sympathizing
jury of her countrymen!"

With this Sergeant Buzfuz stopped, and began to call his witnesses. The first was one of Mrs.
Bardell's female cronies, whose testimony of course, was all in her favor.

Then Winkle was called. Knowing that he was a friend of Mr. Pickwick's, Mrs. Bardell's lawyers
browbeat and puzzled him till poor Mr. Winkle had the air of a disconcerted pickpocket, and
was in a terrible state of confusion. He was soon made to tell how, with Tupman and Snodgrass,
he had come into Mr. Pickwick's lodgings one day to find him holding Mrs. Bardell in his arms.
The other two Pickwickians were also compelled to testify to this.

Nor was this all. Sergeant Buzfuz finally entrapped the agonized Winkle into telling how Mr.
Pickwick had been found at night in the wrong room at the Ipswich Inn and how as a result a
lady's marriage had been broken off and the whole party arrested and taken before the mayor.
Poor Winkle was obliged to tell this, though he knew it would hurt the case of Mr. Pickwick.
When he was released he rushed away to the nearest inn, where he was found some hours later
by the waiter, groaning dismally with his head under the sofa cushions.

Mr. Pickwick's case looked black. The only comfort he received was from the testimony of Sam
Weller, who tried to do Mrs. Bardell's side all possible harm yet say as little about his master
as he could, and who kept the court room in a roar of laughter with his sallies.

"Do you mean to tell me, Mr. Weller," said Sergeant Buzfuz finally, "that you saw nothing of
Mrs. Bardell's fainting in the arms of Mr. Pickwick? Sergeant Buzfuz could make nothing out
of Sam, and so the case for Mrs. Bardell closed.

Mr. Pickwick's lawyer made a long speech in his favor, but it was of no use. The evidence seemed
all against him. The jury found him guilty of breach of promise of marriage, and sentenced
him to pay Mrs. Bardell her damages.

Mr. Pickwick was speechless with indignation. He vowed that not one penny would he ever pay
if he spent the rest of his life in a jail. His own lawyer warned him that if he did not pay
within two months, Mrs. Bardell's lawyers could put him into the debtors' prison, but Mr. Pickwick
prepared to start on another excursion with his three friends, still declaring that he would
never pay. On the coach they fell in with a fierce-looking, abrupt gentleman named Dowler,
with a bald, glossy forehead and large black whiskers, who introduced them to the society of
Bath, particularly to Mr. Angelo Cyrus Bantam, master of ceremonies at the famous Assembly-Room,
where the fashionable balls were held. Mr. Bantam carried a gold eye-glass, a gold snuff-box,
gold rings on his finger, a gold watch in his waistcoat pocket, a gold chain and an ebony cane
with a gold head. His linen was the whitest, his wig the blackest, and his teeth were so fine
that it was hard to tell the real ones from the false ones.

Mr. Bantam made the Pickwickians welcome and in three days' time they were settled in a fine
house, where Mr. and Mrs. Dowler also lodged. Mr. Pickwick passed his days in drinking the
spring-water for which Bath was famous, and in walking; his evenings he spent at the Assembly
balls, at the theater or in making entries in his journal.

One evening Mrs. Dowler was carried off to a party in her sedan-chair, leaving her husband
to sit up for her. The Pickwickians had long since gone to bed, and Mr. Dowler fell fast asleep
while he waited. It was a very windy night and the sedan-carriers, who brought the lady home,
knocked in vain at the door. Mr. Dowler did not wake, though they knocked like an insane postman.

At length Winkle in his own room was roused by the racket. He donned slippers and dressing-gown,
hurried down stairs half asleep and opened the door. At the glare of the torches he jumped
to the conclusion that the house was on fire and rushed outside, when the door blew shut behind
him.

Seeing a lady's face at the window of the sedan-chair, he turned and knocked at the door frantically,
but with no response. He was undressed and the wind blew his dressing-gown in a most unpleasant
manner. "There are people coming down the street now. There are ladies with 'em; cover me up
with something! Stand before me!" roared Winkle, but the chairmen only laughed. The ladies
were nearer and in desperation he bolted into the sedan-chair where Mrs. Dowler was.

Now Mr. Dowler, a moment before, had bounced off the bed, and now threw open the window just
in time to see this. He thought his wife was running away with another man, and seizing a supper
knife, the indignant husband tore into the street, shouting furiously.

Winkle, hearing his horrible threats, did not wait. He leaped out of the sedan-chair and took
to his heels, hotly pursued by Dowler. He dodged his pursuer at length, rushed back, slammed
the door in Dowler's face, gained his bedroom, barricaded his door with furniture and packed
his belongings. At the first streak of dawn, he slipped out and took coach for Bristol.

Mr. Pickwick was greatly vexed over Winkle's unheroic flight. Sam Weller soon discovered where
he had gone, and Mr. Pickwick sent him after the fugitive, bidding him find Winkle and either
compel him to return or keep him in sight until Mr. Pickwick himself could follow.

Winkle, meanwhile, walking about the Bristol streets, chanced to stop at a doctor's office
to make some inquiries, and in a young medical gentleman in green spectacles recognized, to
his huge surprise, Bob Sawyer, the bosom friend of Ben Allen, both of whom he had met on Christmas
Day at Dingley Dell. Bob, in delight, dragged Winkle into the back room where sat Ben Allen,
amusing himself by boring holes in the chimney piece with a red-hot poker.

The precious couple had, in fact, set up shop together, and were using every trick they knew
to make people think them great doctors with a tremendous practice. They insisted on Winkle's
staying to supper, and it was lucky he did so, for he heard news of Arabella, the pretty girl
who had worn the little boots with fur around the top at Dingley Dell, and with whom he had
fallen in love. He learned that Arabella had scorned the sprightly Bob Sawyer, and that her
brother, in anger, had taken her away from Mr. Wardle's and put her in the house of an old
aunt--a dull, close place not far from Bristol. Before he bade them good night, Winkle had
determined to find her.

He met with a shock, on returning to his inn, to come suddenly upon Dowler sitting in the coffee-room.
Winkle drew back, very pale, and was greatly surprised to see the bloodthirsty Dowler do likewise
as, growing even paler than Winkle, he began an apology for his action of the evening before.
As a matter of fact, Dowler had run away from Bath, too, at dawn, in fear of Winkle, and thought
now the latter had pursued him. Winkle, suspecting this, put on a look of great fierceness
but accepted the apology, and the pair shook hands.

Winkle's plan for finding Arabella Allen met now with a set-back. Sam Weller arrived at midnight
and insisted that Winkle be waked at once. Once in his room, Sam told him Mr. Pickwick's instructions
and declared he would not leave his sight till Winkle came back with him to Bath. This was
awkward, but luckily, Mr. Pickwick himself, to whom Sam wrote, arrived next day and released
his follower.

Mr. Pickwick approved of Winkle's determination to find the pretty Arabella, and so the next
morning Sam Weller was sent on a voyage of discovery among the servants of the town. For many
hours Sam searched in vain without a clue.

In the afternoon he sat in a lane running between rows of gardens in one of the suburbs, when
a gate opened and a maid-servant came out to shake some carpets. Sam gallantly rose to help
her, when she uttered a half-suppressed scream. It was Mary, the good-looking housemaid whom
Sam had kissed at the house of Nupkins, the mayor of Ipswich, on the day of the arrest of the
Pickwickians and the exposure of Jingle. She had left her place there for this new situation.

When Sam had finished his gallant speeches and Mary her blushing, he told her of Winkle's search.
What was his surprise when she told him that Arabella was living the very next door. She let
Sam come into the garden, and presently when Arabella came out to walk, he scrambled on to
the wall and pleaded Winkle's cause.

"Ve thought ve should ha' been obliged to straitveskit him last night," he declared.

Arabella, in great distress at this prospect, promised she would be in the garden next evening,
and Sam returned with the news to Mr. Pickwick and Winkle.

The next evening all three set out for the spot. Mary let them into the garden and, while Winkle
climbed the wall to throw himself at Arabella's feet, Mr. Pickwick kept guard at the gate with
a dark lantern. So far he threw its beam that a scientific gentleman who lived a few houses
away, seeing the light from his window, took it for some new and wonderful freak of electricity
and came out to investigate.

Before he arrived, however, Winkle had scrambled back over the wall and Arabella had run into
the house. Seeing the scientific gentleman's head poked out of a garden-gate as they passed,
Sam gave it a gentle tap with his fist and then, hoisting Mr. Pickwick on his back, and followed
by Winkle, he ran off at full speed, leaving the scientific gentleman to go back to his room
and write a long article about the wonderful light and to tell how he had received a shock
of electricity which left him stunned for a quarter of an hour afterward.

The Pickwickians' stay at Bath came to an end soon after this adventure, and their leader,
with Sam Weller, returned to London. One morning a bailiff forced his way to his bedroom and,
since he had not paid the damages to Mrs. Bardell, arrested him in bed, waited till he was
dressed and carried him off to the debtors' prison.

The prison was called The Fleet. It was a gloomy building with a heavy gate, guarded by a turnkey,
holding all classes, from laboring men to broken-down spendthrifts. Its filthy galleries, and
low coffee-room reeked with tobacco smoke and its open court was noisy with the oaths of card-players.
In some of the rooms lived men with their wives and whole families of children, and Mr. Pickwick
found he would have to pay extra even to have a room to himself.

Caged with this coarse, vulgar crowd, Mr. Pickwick suffered greatly, but no idea of paying
the unjust damages entered his mind. Instead, he busied himself with wandering about the prison
and learning all he could of its customs and inmates. Those who, like himself, had money were
well-treated. Those who had none lived in starvation and wretchedness. In one wall was a kind
of iron cage, within which was posted a lean and hungry prisoner who rattled a money-box and
called out: "Remember the poor debtors!" The money he collected from passers-by in the street
was divided and bought food for the poorest.

As Mr. Pickwick entered the room given over to the latter class, he started. In one of its
occupants, clad in tattered garments and yellow shirt, pinched with starvation and pale with
illness, he saw Alfred Jingle; and near him, faithful still in rags and dirt, was Job Trotter.

Jingle was no longer jaunty and impudent. He had pawned all his belongings; had lived, in fact,
for the last week on a silk umbrella with an ivory handle. His smile now was a mere twitch
of the face as he said: "Nothing soon--starve--die--workhouse funeral--serve him right--all
over--drop the curtain!" Unable, however, to keep up this make-believe recklessness, Jingle
sat down at length and sobbed like a child.

Mr. Pickwick was greatly moved at the sight, and gave Job some money for his master as he turned
away.

Sam Weller had come with Mr. Pickwick to the prison. The latter, however, told his servant
he must now leave him, though his wages would go on as usual. Sam pretended to agree, but lost
no time in going to his father with a plan by which he, too, should be sent to the Fleet Prison
for debt, so as to be near his master. He borrowed some money from the old stage-driver, and
then when he refused to pay it, his father had him arrested and sent to the prison as he wished.
Old Tony Weller and all his friends went with him, and gave him three tremendous cheers at
the door. When Mr. Pickwick saw Sam return and learned what he had done, he was much affected
at the devotion of this faithful servant and felt himself more fond of him than ever.

It was a long time before Winkle, Tupman and Snodgrass learned of their leader's imprisonment
and came to see him. Sam also had visitors in the person of his mother-in-law (who, of course,
did not know he had brought about his own arrest) and the hypocritical, red-nosed preacher
who came with her to lecture him on his evil ways.

Old Tony Weller came, too, with a plan that he had thought of for Mr. Pickwick's escape in
a piano. The 'Merikin gov'ment will never give him up when they finds as he's got money to
spend, Sammy. Let him stop there till Mrs. Bardell's dead, then let him come back and write
a book about the 'Merikins as'll pay all his expenses and more if he blows 'em up enough."

But Mr. Pickwick did not avail himself of this plan to escape to America. Day by day he wandered
about the prison, learning its tales of misery and hopelessness, till his head and his heart
ached and he could bear no more. For three months he remained there, shut up all day, stealing
from his room only at night, and no entreaties would induce him to pay the money which was
keeping him a prisoner.

Mrs. Bardell's lawyers meanwhile grew impatient. They had not been paid even the costs of the
trial, and these Mrs. Bardell had agreed to pay if they won the suit. As Mr. Pickwick had not
paid the damages, however, she had no money, and so the lawyers at last had her arrested, and
she, too, was sent to the Fleet Prison. After a few hours there, Mrs. Bardell was willing to
do anything to escape, and she agreed if Mr. Pickwick paid the costs, to release him from the
damages.

Mr. Pickwick was still so indignant that he would possibly not have consented, but at this
juncture Winkle entered, leading by the hand the beautiful girl who had been Arabella Allen,
but whom he introduced now as Mrs. Winkle. He had run away with her from the old aunt's house,
with the help of Mary, the pretty housemaid, and they had been married without the knowledge
of Winkle's father. They had come to Mr. Pickwick to beg him to go and plead with old Mr. Winkle
for forgiveness.

Arabella's tears and Winkle's plight proved too much for Mr. Pickwick's resolution. He paid
Mrs. Bardell's costs and left Fleet Prison that very day, with Sam Weller, whose father, of
course, immediately released him also. The latter was angry at first, but finally he and Bob
Sawyer shook hands with the visitor and agreed to treasure no ill-feeling.

Both the young gentlemen insisted on going with Mr. Pickwick to the Winkle homestead--a circumstance
which did not make that visit an easy one. Arabella's brother went fast asleep in the parlor
while they waited, and when Bob Sawyer pinched him, as the old gentleman entered, he awoke
with a shriek without the least idea where he was.

This was most embarrassing to Mr. Pickwick, but he said all he could for Winkle. The old gentleman,
however, would send no message to his son, and Mr. Pickwick and Sam Weller returned with disappointment.

In London Sam found a letter awaiting him from his father. His mother-in-law was dead and the
public house and its earnings were now the old stage-driver's. Sam went to see old Tony and
found him terrified. All the widows in town were setting their caps for him and he was afraid
one of them would succeed in marrying him. He had determined to sell out the business, give
the money to Mr. Pickwick to invest for him, and keep to stage-driving so as to be safe.

While Sam sat with his father talking matters over, the red-nosed preacher came sidling in
to inquire whether Mrs. Weller's will had not left some money for him. He felt so much at home
that he went to the cupboard and poured himself out a big tumbler of his favorite pineapple
rum. This was more than old Tony Weller could stand. He fell upon the old hypocrite, kicked
him through the door and ducked him in the horse trough.

Mr. Pickwick, meanwhile, had been arranging to buy the release of Jingle and Job Trotter, and
to send them to the West Indies, where they might have a chance to make an honest living. While
he was attending to this at his lawyer's, a prolonged knock came at the door. It was Joe, Mr.
Wardle's fat boy, erect, but gone fast asleep between his knocks.

Mr. Wardle came up from his carriage, delighted to see his old friend, of whose imprisonment
he had just heard. He told Mr. Pickwick that his daughter Emily had fallen in love with Snodgrass,
and that, discovering it, he had brought her to London to ask the advice of Mr. Pickwick in
the matter. While they talked he sent the fat boy back to the inn to tell Emily that Mr. Pickwick
would dine there with them.

The fat boy went on this errand, and coming suddenly into the inn sitting-room, discovered
Emily, with her waist encircled with Snodgrass's arm while Arabella and her pretty housemaid
were obligingly looking out of the window. There was but one thing to do: they bribed the fat
boy not to tell!

Snodgrass, unluckily, stayed too long. As he was leaving, he heard Mr. Wardle, with Mr. Pickwick
and Winkle, coming up the stair. He was obliged to retreat, and took refuge in Mr. Wardle's
bedroom, from which there was no escape, save through the dining-room.

The dinner hour was a painful one to Emily, for the fat boy's secret kept him awake, and he
winked at her and at Arabella so often that Mr. Wardle noticed it. The latter sent him into
the bedroom finally for his snuff-box and he came out very pale, Mr. Snodgrass having seized
him there, and begged him to tell some one secretly to release him.

Accordingly the fat boy made desperate efforts to attract Mr. Pickwick's attention--first by
making faces at him when he thought no one else was looking and finally by running a pin into
his leg. But this did not have the desired results. Mr. Pickwick concluded he was crazy, and
Mr. Wardle was about to have him taken down stairs, when into the confusion, with a very red
face, walked Snodgrass, out of the bedroom. He explained his presence there, declared his love
for Emily, was forgiven on the spot and joined the dinner.

The happiness of all was complete when old Mr. Winkle arrived (having made up his mind to see
his son's wife and judge for himself) and found Arabella so sweet that he kissed her and forgave
Winkle on the instant.

Thus the last adventure of the Pickwickians ended happily. Mr. Pickwick had seen, before this,
that the marriage of his companions would change his own life. He withdrew his name from the
Pickwick Club (which thereupon went to pieces), and purchased a house near London for the entertainment
of his friends, and there a few days later Snodgrass and Emily were married in the presence
of Mr. Wardle and all the Pickwickians.

After the wedding, Snodgrass bought a farm near Dingley Dell where, with Emily, he lived many
years, and was always accounted a great poet on account of his pensive and absent-minded manner.
Winkle, with Arabella, settled a half-mile from Mr. Pickwick. Tupman never again fell in love,
though for years his romantic air made him the admiration of numerous single ladies of the
neighborhood.

Ben Allen and Bob Sawyer went to India as surgeons where (after having had yellow fever fourteen
times) they became teetotalers and thereafter did well. Mrs. Bardell continued to let lodgings
to single gentlemen, but never had another breach of promise suit. Old Tony Weller finally
gave up business and retired to live on the interest of the money Mr. Pickwick had invested
for him, having, to the end of his life, a great dislike for widows. His son, Sam, remaining
faithful to his master, Mr. Pickwick at length made Mary, the pretty maid, his housekeeper,
on condition that she marry Sam, which she did at once.

Mr. Pickwick lived happily, occupied in writing his adventures and in acting as godfather to
the children of Snodgrass and Winkle. He never regretted what he had done for Jingle and Job
Trotter, who became in time worthy members of society. He was a favorite with all and the children
loved him. Every year he went to Mr. Wardle's to a large merrymaking, attended by his faithful
Sam Weller, between whom and his master there was a regard that nothing but death could end.

LITTLE DORRIT

Published 1855-1857

Scene: London and Various Places on the Continent

Time: 1827 to 1830

CHARACTERS

    Mr. Dorrit                    An inmate of the debtors' prison
           Known as "The Father of the Marshalsea." Later a
                    wealthy man of the world

    "Little Dorrit"                               His daughter Amy

    Fanny                                       His older daughter

    "Tip"                                                  His son

    Mrs. General                           His daughters' chaperon

    Arthur Clennam                        Little Dorrit's champion

    Mr. Clennam                                         His father

    Mrs. Clennam                               His supposed mother

    Flintwinch                                    A family servant
              Later Mrs. Clennam's partner in business

    Affery                    His wife, and Mrs. Clennam's servant

    Pancks                A rent collector. Little Dorrit's friend

    John Chivery             The son of one of the prison turnkeys
                         Little Dorrit's suitor

    Maggy                                      A half-witted woman

    Doyce                An inventor. Arthur's partner in business

    Rigaud                  A blackmailing adventurer and jailbird

    Mr. Tite Barnacle             A self-important official in the
                         "Circumlocution Office"

    Mr. Merdle       A supposedly wealthy man of affairs in London

    Mrs. Merdle                                           His wife

    Mr. Meagles                    A business man. Arthur's friend

    Mrs. Meagles                                          His wife

    "Pet"                                           Their daughter

    "Tattycoram"                                        Pet's maid

LITTLE DORRIT

I

HOW ARTHUR CAME HOME FROM CHINA

A long, long time ago there lived in London a young man named Clennam. He was an orphan, and
was brought up by a stern uncle, who crushed and repressed his youth and finally forced him
to marry a cold, unfeeling, stubborn woman whom he did not in the least love.

Some time before this marriage, the nephew had met a beautiful young woman, also an orphan,
whom a rich man named Dorrit was educating to be a singer, since she had a remarkable voice.
Clennam had fallen in love with her and had persuaded her to give him all her love in return.
There had even been a kind of ceremony of marriage between them.

But they were both very poor and could not really marry for fear of the anger of Clennam's
cruel uncle, who finally compelled his nephew to marry the other woman, whom he had picked
out for him. And the singer, because she loved him and could not bear to see him made a beggar,
gave him up. So Clennam married one woman while loving another, and this, as all wrong things
must do, resulted in unhappiness for them both.

The singer had given him a little silk watch-paper worked in beads with the initials D. N.
F. These letters stood for the words, "Do Not Forget."

The wife saw the paper with her husband's watch in his secret drawer and wondered what it meant.
One day she found an old letter, that had passed between her husband and the singer, which
explained the initials and betrayed the secret of their love.

She was hard and unforgiving. Though she had never loved Clennam herself, her anger was terrible.
She went to the singer, and under threat of for ever disgracing her in the eyes of the world,
she made her give up to her her baby boy, Arthur, to rear as her own. She promised, in return,
that the little Arthur should be provided for and should never know the real history of his
parentage. She also compelled her husband and the singer to take an oath that neither would
ever see or communicate with the other again.

Mrs. Clennam, in taking this terrible revenge, cheated herself into believing that she was
only the instrument of God, carrying out His will and punishment. But in reality she was satisfying
the rage and hatred of her own heart. Year by year she nursed this rage in the gloomy house
in which Clennam lived and where he carried on the London branch of his business.

It was an old brick house separated from the street by a rusty courtyard. It seemed to have
once been about to slide down sidewise, but had been propped up as though it leaned on some
half-dozen gigantic crutches. Inside it was dark and miserable, with sunken floors and blackened
furniture. In a corner of the sitting-room was an ugly old clock that was wound once a week
with an iron handle, and on the walls were pictures showing the "Plagues of Egypt." The only
pleasure the grim woman enjoyed was reading aloud from those parts of the Old Testament which
call for dreadful punishments to fall upon all the enemies of the righteous, and in these passages
she gloried.

In this melancholy place the boy Arthur Clennam grew up in silence and in dread, wondering
much why they lived so lonely and why his father and mother (for so he thought Mrs. Clennam
to be) sat always so silent with faces turned from each other.

There were but two servants, an old woman named Affery, and Flintwinch, her husband, a short,
bald man, who was both clerk and footman, and who carried his head awry and walked in a one-sided
crab-like way, as though he were falling and needed propping up like the house. Flintwinch
was cunning and without conscience. Very few secrets his mistress had which he did not know,
and they often quarreled.

At length the uncle, who had compelled the unhappy marriage of Arthur's father, died. Feeling
sorry at the last for the wretched singer, whose life had been ruined, he left her in his will
a sum of money, and another sum to the youngest niece of the man who had befriended and educated
her--Mr. Dorrit.

This money, however, Mrs. Clennam did not intend either the woman she hated or the niece of
her patron should get. She hid the part of the will which referred to it, and made Flintwinch
(who, beside her husband, was the only one who knew of it) promise not to tell. Arthur's father
she compelled to sail to China, to take charge of the branch of his business in that country,
and when Arthur was old enough, she sent him there also.

For twenty years, while Arthur stayed with his father on the other side of the world, Mrs.
Clennam, cold and unforgiving as ever, lived on in the old, tumbling house, carrying on the
London business with the aid of Flintwinch.

The poor, forsaken singer lost her mind and at last died. Mr. Dorrit, of course, knowing nothing
about the hidden will, could not claim his share, and the guilty secret remained (except for
Arthur's unhappy father) in possession of only Mrs. Clennam and the crafty Flintwinch.

So the years rolled by, and Mrs. Clennam's cold gray eyes grew colder, her gray hair grayer
and her face more hard and stony. She went out less and less, and finally paralysis made her
keep to her room and her chair.

The time came when Arthur's father lay dying with his son beside him. On his death-bed he did
not forget the money which had never been restored. He had not strength to write, but with
his dying hand he gave Arthur his watch, making him promise to take it back to England to the
wife whose anger and hatred still lived. The watch still held the little paper with the bead
initials that stood for "Do not forget," and he meant thus to remind her of the wrong which
was still unrighted.

Many times thereafter, on his way back to London, Arthur thought of his father's strange manner
and wondered if it could be that some wrong deed lay on his conscience. This idea clung to
him, so that when he saw Mrs. Clennam again on his arrival, and spoke to her of his father's
last hours, he asked her if she thought this might be so. But at this her anger rose; she upbraided
him and declared if he ever referred again to the subject she would renounce him as her son
and cast him off for ever.

It was her guilty conscience, of course, that caused this burst of rage. And yet, just because
it was not for the money's sake that she had done that evil act, but because she so hated the
woman to whom it should have been given, she tried to convince herself that she had acted rightly,
as the instrument of God, to punish wickedness. She had told herself this falsehood over and
over again so often that she had ended by quite believing it to be the truth.

Arthur said no more to her about the matter. He was a man now, and his father's death had made
him master of a very considerable fortune. He decided that he would not carry on the business,
but would make a new one for himself. This resolution angered Mrs. Clennam greatly, but she
grimly determined to carry it on herself, and in Arthur's place took the wily Flintwinch as
her partner and told Arthur coldly to go his own way.

II

THE CHILD OF THE MARSHALSEA

On the first night of his return to the house of his childhood Arthur had noticed there a little
seamstress, with pale, transparent face, hazel eyes and a figure as small as a child's. She
wore a spare thin dress, spoke little, and passed through the rooms noiselessly and shy. They
called her "Little Dorrit." She came in the morning and sewed quietly till nightfall, when
she vanished. It had been so rare in the old days for any one to please the mistress of that
gloomy house that the little creature's presence there interested Arthur greatly and he longed
to know something of her history.

He soon found there was nothing to be learned from Flintwinch, and so one night he followed
Little Dorrit when she left the house. To his great surprise he saw her finally enter a great
bare building surrounded with spiked walls and called The Marshalsea.

This was a famous prison where debtors were kept. In those days the law not only permitted
a man to be put in jail for debt, but compelled him to stay there till all he owed was paid--a
strange custom, since while he was in jail he was unable to earn any money to pay with. In
fact, in many cases poor debtors had to stay there all their lives.

Inside the walls of the Marshalsea the wives and children of unfortunate prisoners were allowed
to come to live with them just as in a boarding-house or hotel, but the debtors themselves
could never pass out of the gate. Arthur entered the prison ignorant of its rules and so stayed
too long, for presently the bell for closing rang, the gates were shut, and he had to stay
inside all night. This was not so pleasant, but it gave him a chance easily to find out all
he wished to learn of Little Dorrit's history.

Her father, before she was born, had lost all his money through a business failure, and had
thus been thrown into the Marshalsea. There Amy, or Little Dorrit, as they came to call her,
was born; there her mother had languished away, and there she herself had always lived, mothering
her pretty frivolous sister Fanny, and her lazy, ne'er-do-well brother, "Tip."

Her father had been an inmate of the prison so many years that he was called "The Father of
the Marshalsea." From being a haughty man of wealth, he had become a shabby old white-haired
dignitary with a soft manner, who took little gifts of money which any one gave him half-shame-facedly
and to the mortification of Little Dorrit alone.

The child had grown up the favorite of the turnkeys and of all the prison, calling the high,
blank walls "home." When she was a little slip of a girl she had her sister and brother sent
to night-school for a time, and later taught herself fine sewing, so that at the time Arthur
Clennam returned to London she was working every day outside the walls, for small wages. Each
night she returned to the prison to prepare her father's supper, bringing him whatever she
could hide from her own dinner at the house where she sewed, loving him devotedly through all.

She even had a would-be lover, too. The son of one of the turnkeys, a young man with weak legs
and weak, light hair, soft-hearted and soft-headed, had long pursued her in vain. During that
evening Arthur called on him and treated the old man so courteously and talked to Little Dorrit
with such kindness that she began to love him from that moment.

Many things of Little Dorrit's pathetic story Arthur learned that night. His first surprise
at finding her in the Clennam house mingled strangely with his old thought that his father
on his death-bed seemed to be troubled by some remorseful memory; and as he slept in the gloomy
prison he dreamed that the little seamstress was in some mysterious way mingled with this wrong
and remorse.

There was more truth than fancy in this dream. Not knowing the true history of his parentage,
and wholly ignorant of the sad life and death of the poor singer, his own unhappy mother, Arthur
had never heard the name Dorrit. He did not know, to be sure, that it was the name of the wealthy
patron who had once educated her. As a matter of fact, this patron had been Little Dorrit's
own uncle, who now was living in poverty. It was to his youngest niece that the will Mrs. Clennam
had wickedly hidden declared the money should go. And as Little Dorrit was this niece, it rightfully
belonged to her. The real reason of Mrs. Clennam's apparent kindness to Little Dorrit was the
pricking of her conscience, which gave her no rest.

But all this Arthur could not guess. Nevertheless, he had gained such an interest in the little
seamstress that next day he determined to find out all he could about her father's unfortunate
affairs.

He had great difficulty in this. The Government had taken charge of old Mr. Dorrit's debts,
and his affairs were in the hands of a department which some people sneeringly called the "Circumlocution
Office"--because it took so much time and talk for it to accomplish anything. This department
had a great many clerks, every one of whom seemed to have nothing to do but to keep people
from troubling them by finding out anything.

Arthur went to one clerk, who sent him to a Mr. Tite Barnacle, a fat, pompous man with a big
collar, a big watch chain and stiff boots. Mr. Barnacle treated him quite as an outsider and
would give him no information whatever. Then he tried another department, where they said they
knew nothing of the matter. Still a third advised him not to bother about it. So at last he
had to give up, quite discouraged.

Though he could do nothing for Little Dorrit's father, Arthur did what he could for her lazy
brother. He paid his debts so that he was released from the Marshalsea, and this kindness,
though Tip himself was ungrateful to the last degree, endeared him still more to Little Dorrit,
who needed his friendship so greatly.

The night her brother was released she came to Arthur to thank him--alone save for a half-witted
woman named Maggie, who believed she herself was only ten years old, and called Little Dorrit
"Little Mother," and who used to go with her when she went through the streets at night. Little
Dorrit was dressed so thinly and looked so slight and helpless that when she left, Arthur felt
as if he would like to take her up in his arms and carry her home again.

It would have been better if he had. For when they got back to the Marshalsea the prison gates
had closed for the night and they had to stay out till morning. They wandered in the cold street
till nearly dawn; then a kind-hearted sexton who was opening a church let them come in and
made Little Dorrit a bed of pew cushions, and there she slept a while with a big church-book
for a pillow. Arthur did not know of this adventure till long afterward, for Little Dorrit
would not tell him for fear he should blame himself for letting them go home alone.

Little Dorrit had one other valuable friend beside Arthur at this time. This was a rent collector
named Pancks, who was really kind-hearted, but who was compelled to squeeze rent money out
of the poor by his master. The latter looked so good and benevolent that people called him
"The Patriarch," but he was at heart a genuine skinflint, for whose meanness Pancks got all
the credit. Pancks was a short, wiry man, with a scrubby chin and jet-black eyes, and when
he walked or talked he puffed and blew and snorted like a little steam-engine.

Little Dorrit used sometimes to go to sew at the house of "The Patriarch," and Pancks often
saw her there. One day he greatly surprised her by asking to see the palm of her hand, and
then he pretended to read her fortune. He told her all about herself (which astonished her,
for she did not know that he knew anything of her history), and then, with many mysterious
puffs and winks, he told her she would finally be happy. After that she seemed to meet Pancks
wherever she went--at Mrs. Clennam's and at the Marshalsea as well--but at such meetings he
would pretend not to know her. Only sometimes, when no one else was near, he would whisper:

"I'm Pancks, the gipsy--fortune-telling."

These strange actions puzzled Little Dorrit very much. But she was far from guessing the truth:
that Pancks had for some time been interested (as had Arthur Clennam) in finding out how her
father's affairs stood. He had discovered thus, accidentally, that old Mr. Dorrit was probably
the heir at law to a great estate that had lain for years forgotten, unclaimed and growing
larger all the time. The question now was to prove this, and this, Pancks, out of friendship
for Little Dorrit, was busily trying to do.

One day the rent-collector came to Arthur to tell him that he had succeeded. The proof was
all found. Mr. Dorrit's right was clear; all he had to do was to sign his name to a paper,
and the Marshalsea gates would open and he would be free and a rich man.

Arthur found Little Dorrit and told her the glad tidings. They made her almost faint for joy,
although all her rejoicing was for her father. Then he put her in a carriage and drove as fast
as possible with her to the prison to carry her father the great news.

So "The Father of the Marshalsea" left the old prison, in which he had lived so long, and all
the prisoners held a mass-meeting and gave him a farewell address and a dinner.

On the last day, when they drove away from the iron gates, old Mr. Dorrit was in fine, new
clothing, and Tip and Fanny were clad in the height of fashion. Poor Little Dorrit, in joy
for her father and grief at parting from Arthur (for they were to go abroad at once), did not
appear at the last moment, and Arthur, who had come to see them off, hastening to her room,
found that she had fainted away. He carried her gently down to the carriage, and as he lifted
her in, he saw she had put on the same thin little dress that she had worn on the day he had
first seen her.

So, amid cheers and good wishes, they drove away, and Arthur, as he walked back through the
crowded streets, somehow felt very lonely.

III

WHAT RICHES BROUGHT TO THE DORRITS

Great changes came to old Mr. Dorrit with his money. As they traveled slowly through Switzerland
and into Italy, he put on greater dignity daily. He lived each day suspecting that every one
was in some way trying to slight him and grew very much ashamed of his past years in the Marshalsea,
and forbade all mention of them. He hired a great number of servants, and, to improve the manners
of Fanny and Little Dorrit, he employed a woman named Mrs. General, who had many silly notions
of society.

Little Dorrit could not even say "father" without being reproved by Mrs. General.

Fanny and Tip were as spoiled as possible. Fanny, morning and night, thought of nothing but
wearing costly dresses and "going into society," and Tip did little but play cards and bet
on horse-races. Only Little Dorrit, through all, kept her old sweet self unchanged.

Wherever they went they lived in splendid hotels. In Venice the palace they occupied was six
times as big as the whole Marshalsea. Mr. Dorrit, when he remembered Arthur Clennam at all,
spoke of him as an upstart who had intruded his presence upon them in their poverty, and quickly
forgot all his kindness and his efforts to help and comfort them.

But Little Dorrit never forgot. Her present existence seemed a dream. She tried to care for
her father as she used to do, but he was afraid people would think he had not been used to
servants (foolish man!) so she lost even the little pleasure of her old prison life in the
Marshalsea. There were valets and maids now to do all the little things she had once loved
to do with her own hands, and she seemed to be no longer of use to him. She loved her father
as dearly as she always had, but now she had begun to feel that she could never see him as
he used to be before his prison days, because first poverty and now wealth had changed him.
The old sad shadow came over her. He grew angry at her and chid her, and hurt her. It seemed
he had entirely forgotten the old days when she slaved so for him.

Poor little Dorrit! She was far lonelier now than she had ever been before in the debtors'
prison--lonelier and unhappier than Arthur Clennam in London could have guessed. The gay, fashionable
life of her brother and sister did not attract her. She was timid of joining in their gaieties.
She asked leave only to be left alone, and went about the city in a gondola in a quiet, scared,
lost manner. It often seemed to her as if the Marshalsea must be just behind the next big building,
or Mrs. Clennam's house, where she had first met Arthur, just around the next corner. And she
used to look into gondolas as they passed, as if she might see Arthur any minute.

In the days of their prison-poverty Fanny had occasionally earned some money by dancing at
a theater. There she had met a silly, chuckle-headed young man, the son of a Mrs. Merdle, and
he had been fascinated by her beauty. Now, in their wealth, he saw Fanny again and fell even
more deeply in love with her. Mrs. Merdle was a cold-hearted, artificial woman, who kept a
parrot that was always shrieking, and who thought of nothing but riches and society. She would
have refused to let her son marry Fanny in the old days, but now it was another matter. He
proposed, and Fanny, who had been made angry a thousand times by Mrs. Merdle's insolence and
patronizing ways, made up her mind to marry him if only to take her revenge on his mother.

Mrs. Merdle's husband always stayed in London. He was immensely rich--so rich that people said
everything he touched turned into gold. He was a quiet, dull man, with dull red cheeks, and
cared nothing at all for society, though everybody flattered and courted him.

When old Mr. Dorrit saw Mrs. Merdle's son was in love with Fanny he was greatly pleased. He
had by this time grown so selfish that he considered much less her happiness than his own profit,
and he thought if they were married he could persuade Mr. Merdle to invest his own great fortune
for him, so that he would be even richer than he was now. Mr. Merdle's name had been growing
bigger and bigger every day. Nobody believed the great man could make a mistake, but that he
was going to keep on getting richer and richer (though nobody knew how he did it) as long as
he lived.

So, before long, Fanny married Mrs. Merdle's son, and went back to London to take up life in
the magnificent Merdle mansion with her silly, chuckle-headed husband. Mr. Merdle had got a
very rich position for him in the "Circumlocution Office" with which Arthur Clennam had had
so much trouble once on a time.

Old Mr. Dorrit went to London, too, and, as he had schemed, gave the famous Mr. Merdle all
his fortune to invest. Then he returned to Italy, where, in Rome, his faithful and lonely Little
Dorrit waited lovingly for him.

On the night after he reached Rome Mrs. Merdle gave a dinner party to a large company, and
Little Dorrit and her father attended.

In the midst of the dinner he suddenly called to her across the table. His voice was so loud
and excited that all the guests were frightened and rose to their feet. Little Dorrit ran to
him and put her arms about him, for she saw at once that he was not himself.

He began to address the company, and his first words showed that his mind had failed. He imagined
he was still in the debtors' prison and that all the rich people about him were the other poor
prisoners. He made them a speech, welcoming them to its walls, thanking them in advance for
any money they might give to him as "The Father of the Marshalsea." And he ended by calling
for the old turnkey he had known there to help him up the narrow stair to bed, as he had been
used to do in the prison.

Little Dorrit was not ashamed--she loved him too much for that. Her only wish was to soothe
him, and with a pale, frightened face, she begged him to come with her.

They got him away at last and carried him to his house. Once laid on his bed, he never rose
from it again. Nor did he regain his memory of the immediate present. That, with its show and
its servants, its riches and power, in which Little Dorrit had had so small a part, had faded
out for ever, and now his mind, back in the Marshalsea, recognized his daughter as his only
stay and faithful comfort.

It was well so, for this was the father she had most loved.

So she watched beside him day and night, while every day his life grew weaker and weaker. Every
day the shadow of death stole deeper and deeper over his face, until one morning, when the
dawn came, they saw that he would never wake again.

IV

WHAT HAPPENED TO ARTHUR CLENNAM

Arthur, meanwhile, had missed Little Dorrit greatly. He was very friendly with a couple named
Meagles--a comely, healthy, good-humored and kind-hearted pair, and he was so lonely he almost
thought himself in love with their daughter "Pet" for a while. But Pet soon married a portrait-painter
and went to live abroad.

Mr. and Mrs. Meagles had a little orphan maid whom they called "Tattycoram," for no particular
reason except that her first name had been Hattie, and the name of the man who founded the
asylum where they found her was "Coram." Tattycoram had a very bad temper, so that Mr. Meagles,
when he saw one of these fits coming on, used to stop and say, "Count twenty-five, Tattycoram."
And Tattycoram would count twenty-five, and by that time the fit of temper was over.

But one day she had an attack that was very much worse than usual--so much worse that she couldn't
wait to count twenty-five, and ran away. And it was a long time before they saw Tattycoram again.

At Mr. Meagles's house Arthur met an inventor named Doyce, a quiet, straightforward man, whom
he soon came to like. Doyce had made a useful invention and for twelve years had been trying
to bring it to the notice of the British Government. But this matter, too, had to go through
the famous "Circumlocution Office," and so there it had stuck just as Arthur's inquiry had done.

Arthur having chosen no new business as yet, before long proposed a partnership between himself
and Doyce. The latter agreed readily, and the new firm was established. Soon after this Doyce
went abroad on business, leaving Arthur to manage the affairs.

All might have gone well but for the fame of Mr. Merdle. His wealth seemed so enormous, and
his plans so sure, that many people throughout England, just as old Mr. Dorrit had done, put
their money in his care. Even Pancks, the rent collector, did so, and strongly advised Arthur
to do the same. Convinced by such advice Arthur was unhappily led to invest the money of the
new firm in Merdle's schemes.

One day soon after, Mr. Merdle, whom every one had looked up to and respected, killed himself,
and then to every one's astonishment it was found that his money was all gone, that his schemes
were all exploded, and that the famous man who had dined and wined with the great was simply
the greatest forger and the greatest thief that had ever cheated the gallows.

But it was too late then. Arthur's firm was utterly ruined with all the rest. What hurt him
most was the knowledge that by using the firm's money he had ruined his honest partner, Doyce.

In order to set the latter as near right as he could, Arthur turned over every cent of his
own personal fortune to pay as much of the firm's debt as it would, keeping nothing of value
but his clothes and his books. Beside doing this, he wrote out a statement, declaring that
he, Arthur Clennam, had of his own act and against his partner's express caution, used the
firm's money for this purpose, and that he alone, and not Doyce, was to blame. He declared
also that his own share (if any remained out of the wreck) should go to his partner, and that
he himself would work as a mere clerk, at as small a salary as he could live on.

He published this statement at once, unwisely no doubt, when all London was so enraged against
Merdle and glad to have some one on whom to vent its madness. In the public anger and excitement
the generosity of his act was lost sight of. A few hours later a man who had invested some
of his money in Arthur's firm, and thus lost it, had him arrested for debt, and that night
he entered the dismal iron gates of the Marshalsea prison, not now as a visitor, but as one
whom the pitiless bars locked in from liberty.

The turnkey took him up the old familiar staircase and into the old familiar room in which
he had so often been. And as he sat down in its loneliness, thinking of the fair, slight form
that had dwelt in it so long, he turned his face to the wall and sobbed aloud, "Oh, my Little
Dorrit!"

Wherever he looked he seemed to see her, and just as she herself in a foreign country found
herself looking and listening for his step and voice, so, too, it was with him.

In the days that followed he thought of her all the while. He was too depressed and too retiring
and unhappy to mingle with the other prisoners, so he kept his own room and made no friends.
The rest disliked him and said he was proud or sullen.

A burning, reckless mood soon added its sufferings to his dread and hatred of the place. The
thought grew on him that he would in the end break his heart and die there. He felt that he
was being stifled, and at times the longing to be free made him believe he must go mad. A week
of this suffering found him in his bed in the grasp of a slow, wasting fever. He felt light-headed
and delirious, and heard tunes playing that he knew were only in his brain.

One day when he had dragged himself to his chair by the window, the door of his room seemed
to open to a quiet figure, which dropped a mantle it wore; then it seemed to be Little Dorrit
in her old dress, and it seemed first to smile and then to burst into tears.

He roused himself, and all at once he saw that it was no dream. She was really there, kneeling
by him now with her tears falling on his hands and her voice crying, "Oh, my best friend! Don't
let me see you weep! I am your own poor child come back!"

No one had told her he was ill, for she had just returned from Italy. She made the room fresh
and neat, sewed a white curtain for its window, and sent out for grapes, roast chicken and
jellies, and every good thing. She sat by him all day, smoothing his hot pillow or giving him
a cooling drink.

Though he had been strangely blind, he knew at last that she must have loved him all along.
And to find her great heart turned to him thus in his misfortune made him realize that during
all those months in the lonely prison he had been loving her, too, though he had not known it.

A feeling of peace came to him. Whenever he opened his eyes he saw her at his side--the same
trusting Little Dorrit that he had always known.

V

"ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL"

All the while these things were happening, Mrs. Clennam and Flintwinch had continued their
grim partnership.

Mrs. Clennam at last decided to burn the part of the will she had hidden, so that her share
in the wicked plan could never be found out. Flintwinch, however, wishing for his own purposes
to keep her in his power, deceived her. He cunningly put in its place a worthless piece of
paper, and this Mrs. Clennam burned instead. Flintwinch then locked up the real piece in an
iron box, with a lot of private letters that had been written by the poor crazed singer to
Mrs. Clennam, begging her forgiveness. The box he gave to his brother, who took it to Holland
with him for safe-keeping.

But Flintwinch, in this deception, overreached himself.

There was an adventurer in Holland named Rigaud, who used to drink and smoke with this brother.
He was an oily villain, who had been in jail in France on suspicion of having murdered his
wife. He had shaggy dry hair streaked with red, and a thick mustache, and when he smiled his
eyes went close together, his mustache went up under his hooked nose, and his nose came down
over his mustache. Rigaud saw the box, concluded it contained something valuable, and made
up his mind to get it. His chance came when the brother of Flintwinch died suddenly one day,
and he lost no time in making away with the iron box.

By means of the letters it contained, he soon guessed the secret which Mrs. Clennam had been
for so many years at such pains to conceal, and, deciding that by this knowledge he could squeeze
money out of her, he came to London to find and threaten her.

But she, believing she had burned the part of the will which Rigaud claimed to possess, refused
to listen to him, until at last, maddened by her refusals, he searched out the Dorrits.

He soon discovered that the man who had educated the singer (Arthur's real mother) was Frederick
Dorrit, Little Dorrit's dead uncle, and that it was Little Dorrit herself, since she was his
youngest niece, from whom the money was now being unjustly kept.

Rigaud easily found Little Dorrit, for she was now in the Marshalsea nursing Arthur, where
he lay sick, and to her the cunning adventurer sent a copy of the paper in a sealed packet,
asking her, if it was not reclaimed before the prison closed that same night, to open and read
it herself.

He then went to the Clennam house, told Mrs. Clennam and Flintwinch what he had done and demanded
money at once as the price of his reclaiming the packet before Little Dorrit should learn the
secret it held.

At this Flintwinch had to confess what he had done, and Mrs. Clennam knew that the fatal paper
had not been burned, after all.

The wretched woman, seeing this sharp end to all her scheming, was almost distracted. She had
not walked a step for twelve years, but now her excitement and frenzy gave her unnatural strength.
She rose from her invalid chair and ran with all her speed from the house. Old Affery, the
servant, followed her mistress, wringing her hands as she tried vainly to overtake her.

Mrs. Clennam did not pause till she had reached the prison and found Little Dorrit. She told
her to open the packet at once and to read what it contained, and then, kneeling at her feet,
she promised to restore to her all she had withheld, and begged her to forgive and to come
back with her to tell Rigaud that she already knew the secret and that he might do his worst.

Little Dorrit was greatly moved to see the stern, gray-haired woman at her feet. She raised
and comforted her, assuring her that, come what would, Arthur should never learn the truth
from her lips. This return of good for evil from the one she had most injured brought the tears
to the hard woman's eyes. "God bless you," she said in a broken voice.

Side by side they hastened back to the Clennam house, but as they reached the entrance of its
dark courtyard there came a sudden noise like thunder. For one instant they saw the building,
with the insolent Rigaud waiting smoking in the window; then the walls heaved, surged outward,
opened and fell into pieces. Its great pile of chimneys rocked, broke and tumbled on the fragments,
and only a huge mass of timbers and stone, with a cloud of dust hovering over it, marked the
spot where it had stood.

The rotten old building, propped up so long, had fallen at last. For years old Affery had insisted
that the house was haunted. She had often heard mysterious rustlings and noises, and in the
mornings sometimes she would find little heaps of dust on the floors. Curious, crooked cracks
would appear, too, in the walls, and the doors would stick with no apparent reason. These things,
of course, had been caused by the gradual settling of the crazy walls and timbers, which now
finally had collapsed all at once.

Frightened, they ran back to the street and there Mrs. Clennam's strange strength left her,
and she fell in a heap upon the pavement.

She never from that hour was able to speak a word or move a finger. She lived for three years
in a wheel-chair, but she lived--and died--like a statue.

For two days workmen dug industriously in the ruins before they found the body of Rigaud, with
his head smashed to atoms beneath a huge beam.

They dug longer than that for the body of Flintwinch, and stopped at last when they came to
the conclusion that he was not there. By that time, however, he had had a chance to get together
all of the firm's money he could lay his hands on and to decamp. He was never seen again in
England, but travelers claimed to have seen him in Holland, where he lived comfortably under
the name of "Mynheer Von Flyntevynge"--which is, after all, about as near as one can come to
saying "Flintwinch" in Dutch.

No one grieved greatly over his loss. It was long before Arthur knew of these events, and Little
Dorrit was too happy in nursing him back to health to think much about it.

She was not content with this, either, but wrote to Mr. and Mrs. Meagles, who were abroad,
of the sick man's misfortune. The former went at once in search of Doyce and brought him back
to London, where together they set the firm of "Doyce and Clennam" on its feet again and arranged
to buy Arthur's liberty. They did not tell Arthur anything of this, however, in order that
they might surprise him.

Mr. Meagles, for Little Dorrit's sake, tried hard to find the fragment of the will which Rigaud
had kept in the iron box. But it was Tattycoram, the little maid with the bad temper, who finally
found it in a lodging Rigaud had occupied, and brought it to Mr. Meagles, praying on her knees
that he take her back into his service, which, to be sure, he was very glad to do.

Arthur, while he was slowly growing better, had thought much of his condition. Though Little
Dorrit had begged him again and again to take her money and use it as his own, he had refused,
telling her as gently as he could that now that she was rich and he a ruined man, this could
never be, and that, as the time had long gone by when she and the Marshalsea had anything in
common, they two must soon part.

One day, however, when he was well enough to sit up, Little Dorrit came to his room in the
prison and told him she had received a very great fortune and asked him again if he would not
take it.

"Never," he told her.

"You will not take even half of it?" she asked pleadingly.

"Never, dear Little Dorrit!" he said emphatically.

Then, at last, she laid her face on his breast crying:

"I have nothing in the world. I am as poor as when I lived here in the Marshalsea. I have just
found that papa gave all we had to Mr. Merdle and it is swept away with the rest. My great
fortune now is poverty, because it is all you will take. Oh, my dearest and best, are you quite
sure you will not share my fortune with me now?"

He had locked her in his arms, and his tears were falling on her cheek as she said joyfully:

"I never was rich before, or proud, or happy. I would rather pass my life here in prison with
you, and work daily for my bread, than to have the greatest fortune that ever was told and
be the greatest lady that ever was honored!"

But Arthur's prison life was to be short. For Mr. Meagles and Doyce burst upon them with all
the other good news at once. Arthur was free, the firm had been reëstablished with him at its
head, and to-morrow the debtors' prison would be only a memory.

Next morning, before they left the Marshalsea for ever, Little Dorrit handed Arthur a folded
paper, and asked him to please her by putting it into the fire with his own hand.

"Is it a charm?" he asked.

"It is anything you like best," she answered, standing on tiptoe to kiss him. "Only say 'I
love you' as you do it!"

He said it, and the paper burned away. And so the will that had been the cause of so much pain
and wrong was turned to ashes. Little Dorrit kept the promise she had made, and Arthur never
learned of the sin of which the woman he had always called his mother had been guilty.

Then, when all good-bys had been said, they walked together to the very same church where Little
Dorrit had slept on the cushions the night she had been locked out of the Marshalsea, and there
she and Arthur were married. Doyce gave the bride away. A rich old man

    Mary Graham               Old Chuzzlewit's nurse and secretary

    Jonas                                      His grasping nephew

    Chuffey                        An aged clerk to Jonas's father

    Pecksniff                           An architect and hypocrite
                A distant relative of Old Chuzzlewit's

    Charity                                           His daughter

    Mercy                        His daughter. Later, Jonas's wife

    Tom Pinch                       A charity pupil of Pecksniff's

    Ruth                                                His sister

    John Westlock                 One of Pecksniff's former pupils

    Mark Tapley                      An assistant at a village inn
             Later, Martin's comrade in the United States

    Bevan                                              An American

    Mrs. Todgers       The proprietress of a London boarding-house

    Montague Tigg                           A penniless adventurer
         Later known as "Tigg Montague," and president of the
                     Anglo-Bengalee Company

    "Sairey" Gamp                                          A nurse

    "Mrs. Harris"             An imaginary friend of Sairey Gamp's

    Nadgett                                           A police spy

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT

I

HOW MARTIN LEFT ENGLAND

Martin Chuzzlewit was the grandson of an old man who, from being poor, became so rich that
he found not only that people bowed low and flattered him, but that many of his relatives were
trying by every trick to get some of his money.

The old man was naturally suspicious and obstinate, and when he saw this he began to distrust
everybody and to think the whole world selfish and deceitful. He had loved most of all his
grandson, Martin, but at length his heart became hardened to him also.

This was partly Martin's own fault, for he was somewhat selfish, but he had, nevertheless,
a great deal of good in him. And perhaps his selfishness was partly his grandfather's fault,
too, because the latter had brought him up to believe he would inherit all his money and would
sometime be very rich.

At last, ill and grown suspicious of every one he met, old Chuzzlewit gave a home to a beautiful
orphan girl named Mary Graham, and kept her near him as his nurse and secretary. In order that
she might not have any selfish interest in being kind to him, he took an oath in her presence
that he would not leave her a cent when he died. He paid her monthly wages and it was agreed
that there should be no affection shown between them.

In spite of his seeming harshness, Mary knew his heart was naturally kind, and she soon loved
him as a father. And he, softened by her sympathy, came in spite of himself to love her as
a daughter.

It was not long before young Martin, too, had fallen very deeply in love with Mary. He concluded
too hastily, however, that his grandfather would not approve of his marrying her, and told
the old man his intentions in such a fiery way that Chuzzlewit resented it.

The old man accused Martin of a selfish attempt to steal from him Mary's care, and at this,
Martin, whose temper was as quick as his grandfather's flew to anger. They quarreled and Martin
left him, declaring he would henceforth make his own way until he was able to claim Mary for
his wife.

While he was wondering what he should do, Martin saw in a newspaper the advertisement of a
Mr. Pecksniff, an architect, living near Salisbury, not many miles from London, who wished
a pupil to board and teach. An architect was what Martin wanted to be, and he answered the
advertisement at once and accepted Pecksniff's terms.

Now, to tell the truth, Martin had another reason for this. Pecksniff was his grandfather's
cousin, and he knew the old man thought him the worst hypocrite of all his relatives, and disliked
him accordingly. And Martin was so angry with his grandfather that he went to Pecksniff's partly
to vex him.

Pecksniff was just the man old Chuzzlewit thought him. He was a smooth, sleek hypocrite, with
an oily manner. He had heavy eyelids and a wide, whiskerless throat, and when he talked he
fairly oozed virtuous sayings, for which people deemed him a most moral and upright man. He
was a widower with two daughters, Charity and Mercy, the older of whom had a very bitter temper,
which made it hard for the few students as long as they stayed there.

After Pecksniff had once got a pupil's money in advance, he made no pretense of teaching him.
He kept him drawing designs for buildings, and that was all. If any of the designs were good,
he said nothing to the pupil, but sold them as his own, and pocketed the money. His pupils
soon saw through him and none of them had ever stayed long except one.

This one was named Tom Pinch. He had been poor and Mr. Pecksniff had pretended to take him
in at a reduced rate. But really Pinch paid as much as the others, beside being a clever fellow
who made himself useful in a thousand ways. He was a musician, too, and played the organ in
the village church, which was a credit to Pecksniff.

With all this, Pinch was a generous, open-hearted lad, who believed every one honest and true,
and he was so grateful to Pecksniff (whose hypocrisy he never imagined) that he was always
singing his praises everywhere. In return for all this, Pecksniff treated him with contempt
and made him quite like a servant.

Tom Pinch, however, was a favorite with every one else. He had a sister Ruth who loved him
dearly, but he seldom saw her, for she was a governess in the house of a brass and iron founder,
who did not like her to have company. One of Tom's greatest friends had been a pupil named
John Westlock, who in vain had tried to open the other's eyes to Pecksniff's real character.
When Westlock came into his money he had left and gone to live in London, and it was to take
his vacant place that the new pupil Martin was now coming.

Another friend of Pinch's was Mark Tapley, a rakish, good-humored fellow, whose one ambition
was to find a position so uncomfortable and dismal that he would get some credit for being
jolly in it. Tapley was an assistant at The Blue Dragon, the village inn, whose plump, rosy
landlady was so fond of him that he might have married her if he had chosen to. But, as Tapley
said, there was no credit in being jolly where he was so comfortable, so he left The Blue Dragon
and went off, too, to London.

With neither Westlock nor Mark Tapley there Tom Pinch was lonely and welcomed the arrival of
Martin, with whom he soon made friends. Mr. Pecksniff folded his new pupil to his breast, shed
a crocodile tear and set him to work designing a grammar-school.

Old Chuzzlewit soon heard where Martin his grandson was, and wrote to Pecksniff asking him
to meet him in London. Pecksniff was so anxious to curry favor with the rich old man that,
taking his daughters with him, he left at once for London, where they put up at a boarding-house
kept by a Mrs. Todgers, while Pecksniff awaited the arrival of old Chuzzlewit.

Mrs. Todgers's house smelled of cabbage and greens and mice, and Mrs. Todgers herself was bony
and wore a row of curls on the front of her head like little barrels of flour. But a number
of young men boarded there, and Charity and Mercy enjoyed themselves very much.

One whom they met on this trip to London was a remote relative of theirs, a nephew of old Chuzzlewit's,
named Jonas. Jonas's father was eighty years old and a miser, and the son, too, was so mean
and grasping that he often used to wish his father were dead so he would have his money.

The old father, indeed, would have had no friend in his own house but for an old clerk, Chuffey,
who had been his schoolmate in boyhood and had always lived with him. Chuffey was as old and
dusty and rusty as if he had been put away and forgotten fifty years before and some one had
just found him in a lumber closet. But in his own way Chuffey loved his master.

Jonas called on the two Pecksniff daughters, and Charity, the elder, determined to marry him.
Jonas, however, had his own opinion, and made up his mind to marry Mercy, her younger sister.

Before long old Chuzzlewit reached London, and when Pecksniff called he told him his grandson,
Martin, was an ingrate, who had left his protection, and asked the architect not to harbor
him. Pecksniff, who worshiped the other's money and would have betrayed his best friend for
old Chuzzlewit's favor, returned home instantly, heaped harsh names upon Martin and ordered
him to leave his house at once.

Martin guessed what had caused Pecksniff to change his mind so suddenly, and with hearty contempt
for his truckling action, he left that very hour in the rain, though he had only a single silver
piece in his pocket. Tom Pinch, in great grief for his trouble, ran after him with a book as
a parting gift, and between its leaves Martin found another silver piece--all Tom had.

Most of the way to London Martin walked. Once there he took a cheap lodging, and tried to find
some vessel on which he could work his passage to America, for there, as he walked, he had
made up his mind to go. But he found no such opportunity. His money gone, he pawned first his
watch and then his other belongings, one by one, until he had nothing left, and was even in
distress for food.

Yet his pride was strong, and he gave what was almost his last coin to escape the attentions
of one Montague Tigg, a dirty, jaunty, bold, mean, swaggering, slinking vagabond of the shabby-genteel
sort, whom he recognized as one who had more than once tried to squeeze money out of his grandfather.

At last, when he was almost in despair, a surprise came in the shape of an envelop addressed
to himself, containing no letter, but a bank-note for a generous amount. There was no clue
whatever to the sender, but the sum was enough to pay his passage and he determined therefore
to sail next day.

While he was still wondering at this good luck, Martin chanced to come upon Mark Tapley, the
old assistant at The Blue Dragon Inn. Tapley had found London too pleasant a place to be jolly
in with any credit, and, as he had heard America was a very dismal place, he proposed to go
with Martin.

As it happened, Tapley knew that Mary Graham was then in London, for he had seen old Chuzzlewit
going into his house. When Martin learned this he sent a letter to her by Tapley, and she met
him next morning in a little park near by. There he told her of his leaving Pecksniff's and
of his coming voyage.

She was very sorrowful over his departure, but he cheered her by telling her he would soon
return, well and prosperous, for her. She told him that Pecksniff seemed somehow to have made
his grandfather trust him, and that by his advice they were both to move to The Blue Dragon
Inn, near his house. Martin told her of Pecksniff's true character, warned her against him,
and begged her to trust in Tom Pinch as a true friend. So they parted, pledging each other
their love whatever befell.

Before Martin left next day Mary sent him a diamond ring, which he thought his grandfather
had given her, but for which in reality she had paid all her savings, so that he should have
with him something of value to sell if he be in want.

So Martin and Mark Tapley took ship for America, and Mary Graham and old Chuzzlewit went to
live at The Blue Dragon, to the huge satisfaction of the oily Pecksniff, who thought now he
could easily get the rich old man under his thumb.

II

PECKSNIFF AND OLD CHUZZLEWIT

After his first burst of anger at Martin's leaving him, old Chuzzlewit, to Mary's eyes, seemed
to grow gradually a different man. He appeared more old and stooped and deaf, and took little
interest in anything.

After they came to The Blue Dragon Inn, Pecksniff threw himself constantly in old Chuzzlewit's
way, flattering and smooth, and before long Mary saw, to her grief, that the old man was coming
more and more under the other's influence. When she was alone with him he seemed more his former
eager self; but let Pecksniff appear and the strange dull look would come and he would seem
only anxious to ask his advice about the smallest matters.

Little wonder Pecksniff concluded he could wind his victim around his finger. At length he
proposed that old Chuzzlewit and Mary leave The Blue Dragon, where he said he felt sure they
were not comfortable, and come and live with him under his own roof. To Mary's dismay, the
old man consented, and they were soon settled in the architect's house.

The only thing that now seemed to stand in Pecksniff's way was Mary, and he decided that, as
old Chuzzlewit was fond of her, he himself would marry her. Once married to her, he reasoned,
with both of them to influence old Chuzzlewit, it would be easy to do what they pleased with
him and with his money, too. With this end in view, he began to persecute poor Mary with his
attentions, squeezing her hand and throwing kisses to her when no one else was looking.

Charity, Pecksniff's older daughter, was not blind to his plan. She was in a sour temper because
the miserly Jonas, who came from London often now to see them, had begun to make love to Mercy
instead of to her. To see her father now paying so much attention to Mary Graham made Charity
angry, and she left her father's house and went to live in London at Mrs. Todgers's boarding-house,
where she set her cap to catch a young man, whether he wanted to be caught or not. As for Mercy,
the younger sister, she was leading Jonas such a dance that she thought very little of her
father's schemes.

His vinegary daughter Charity out of the way, Pecksniff began to persecute Mary more and more.
One day he made her so angry by holding her hand and kissing it that she threatened to complain
to old Chuzzlewit. Pecksniff told her that if she did he would use all his influence to turn
the old man still more against his grandson. The poor girl was in great trouble then, for she
loved Martin and feared Pecksniff's growing power with old Chuzzlewit. And seeing that this
threat frightened her, Pecksniff continued his annoyances.

According to Martin's parting advice, Mary had learned to like and to trust Tom Pinch, in spite
of his mistaken worship of Pecksniff. One day while Tom was practising the organ at the church
she came to him and, confiding in him, told all that she had endured.

In his simple-heartedness he had admired and looked up to Pecksniff all his life, but this
evidence opened Tom Pinch's eyes. At last he saw the pompous hypocrite in his true light. He
agreed with her that the architect was a scoundrel, and comforted her, and asked her always
to trust in his own friendship.

Unluckily while they talked there was an eavesdropper near. It was Pecksniff himself. He had
gone into the church to rest, and lying down in one of the high-back pews, had gone to sleep,
and now the voices of Tom and Mary had awakened him. He listened and waited till they had both
gone; then he stole out and went home by a roundabout way.

That night he went to old Chuzzlewit and, pretending to shed tears of sorrow, told him he had
overheard Tom Pinch, the pauper pupil, whom he had trusted and befriended, making love to Mary,
the old man's ward, in the church. Making a great show of his respect and regard for old Chuzzlewit,
he told him this villain should not remain under his roof one night longer. Then he called
in Tom Pinch and, abusing and insulting him in Chuzzlewit's presence, sent him away as he had
sent away Martin.

Tom was feeling so bad over his loss of faith in his idol, Pecksniff, that he did not greatly
mind this last blow. In fact, he had about concluded he could not live any longer with such
a wicked hypocrite anyway. He packed his things and set off for London, feeling almost as if
the world had come to an end.

Once there, however, he plucked up spirit and felt better. First of all he looked up Westlock,
the former pupil of Pecksniff's, and found him the same friendly, clever fellow now in his
riches as he was of old. Westlock was glad Tom had at last found his master out, and began
at once to plan for his future. Next Tom went to see his sister Ruth at the house where she
was governess.

He arrived there at a fortunate time, for the vulgar brass and iron founder who had hired her
to try to teach his spoiled little daughter was at that moment scolding Ruth harshly for what
was not her fault at all.

Tom had been gaining a spirit of his own since he had parted from Pecksniff, and, now, at sight
of his gentle little sister's tears, his honest indignation rose. He gave her unjust employer
a lecture that left him much astonished, and then, drawing Ruth's arm through his, he led her
from the house for ever.

It was not long before each had told the other all that had happened. Tom decided that they
should part no more, and they set out together to find a lodging. They took some rooms in a
quiet neighborhood and settled down together till Tom could find something to do.

Ruth was a neat housekeeper, but she had to learn to cook, and they had great fun over their
first meal. While she was making her first beefsteak pudding Westlock called with a great piece
of news. An agent had come to him asking him to offer to his friend Tom Pinch a position as
a librarian at a good salary. Who the employer was Tom was not to know. Here was a rare mystery,
and Ruth in her mingled excitement and pie-making looked so sweet and charming that then and
there Westlock fell in love with her.

Tom and he went at once to the agent who had made this extraordinary offer, and he took them
to an unoccupied house, to a dusty room whose floor was covered all over with books. Tom, he
said, was to arrange and make a list of these. Then he gave him the key, told him to come to
him each week for his salary, and disappeared.

Still wondering, the two friends went back together, for of course Westlock had to taste the
beefsteak pudding. Ruth had supper waiting for them. Every minute Westlock thought she grew
more lovely, and as he walked home he knew he was in love at last.

Now, the mystery of Tom's library, and of the bank-note that Martin had received when his money
was all gone, would have been a very joyful one to them both if they could have guessed it.
Old Chuzzlewit, whom they believed so harsh, and whom the wily Pecksniff thought he had got
under his thumb, was a very deep and knowing old man indeed. He had never ceased to love Martin,
his grandson, though he had misunderstood him at first, but he had seen very plainly that the
lad was growing selfish and he wished to save him from this. He had longed for nothing more
than that Martin and Mary should marry, but he wished to try their love for each other as well
as Martin's affection for him. It was to test Pecksniff that old Chuzzlewit had asked the architect
to send Martin from his house, and when he saw that Pecksniff was fawning hound enough to do
it, he determined to punish him in the end. It was old Chuzzlewit who had found where Martin
lodged in London, and had sent him the bank-note. And, won by Tom Pinch's goodness and honor,
it was he who now, secretly, made him this position. If Pecksniff had guessed all this, he
would probably have had a stroke of apoplexy.

III

JONAS GETS RID OF AN ENEMY

Jonas, meanwhile, in his miserly soul, had been wishing that his old father would hurry and
die. He wanted the money and he wanted to marry Mercy Pecksniff, and to do both he preferred
the old man out of his way. He thought of this and wished it so long that at last he began
to think of helping the matter along.

His father kept in a drawer some cough lozenges which he constantly used. Jonas at last bought
some poison from a dissipated man who needed money badly, and made some lozenges like them.
These he put in his father's drawer instead of the others.

His father, however, and Chuffey, the old clerk, noticed that the lozenges were not the same,
and they guessed what Jonas had done. The shock of discovering that his own son had tried to
murder him proved the old man's death. He made Chuffey promise not to betray Jonas, then fell
in a fit and never spoke again.

Jonas naturally thought the poison had done the work, and was at first in dreadful fear of
discovery. He made a fine funeral, with four-horse coaches, velvet trappings and silver plate,
so that people would think he loved his father, and not till the body was buried did he forget
his dread.

Chuffey, however, seemed to go almost daft. He would walk and cry and wring his hands and talk
so strangely about his master's death that Jonas feared he would cause suspicion that all was
not right. So he hired a nurse to come and keep him in his room.

This nurse went by the name of "Sairey" Gamp. She was a fat old woman, with a red face, a husky
voice and a moist eye, which often turned up so as to show only the white. Wherever she went
she carried a faded umbrella with a round white patch on top, and she always smelled of whisky.
Mrs. Gamp was fond of talking of a certain "Mrs. Harris," whom she spoke of as a dear friend,
but whom nobody else had ever seen. When she wanted to say something nice of herself she would
put it in the mouth of Mrs. Harris. She was always quoting, "I says to Mrs. Harris," or "Mrs.
Harris says to me." People used to say there was no such person at all, but this never failed
to make Mrs. Gamp very angry.

She was a cruel nurse, and her way of making a sick man swallow a dose of medicine was by choking
him till he gasped and then putting the spoon down his throat.

Such was the guardian Jonas chose to keep old Chuffey quiet in London, while he himself courted
Pecksniff's daughter at her father's house. And it was not very long before he proposed to
Mercy and they were married.

If Pecksniff had searched London he could not have found a worse man for his daughter to marry.
But Pecksniff cared for nothing but money, and, as Jonas was now rich, he pretended great love
for his new son-in-law and went around with his hands clasped and his eyes lifted to Heaven
in pious thankfulness. As for Jonas, he began to treat Mercy brutally and soon she was miserable.

Jonas, meanwhile, had fallen in with a very prosperous individual. This was none other than
Montague Tigg, the bold, jaunty, swaggering, shabby-genteel Tigg, who had once been glad to
beg a coin from any one he knew. Now he had changed in both appearance and name. His face was
covered with glossy black whiskers, his clothes were the costliest and his jewelry the most
expensive. He was known now as "Mr. Tigg Montague," and was president of the great "Anglo-Bengalee
Company."

The Anglo-Bengalee Company was a business which pretended to insure people's lives. It had
fine offices with new furniture, new paper and a big brass plate on the door. It looked most
solid and respectable, but it was really a trap, for Tigg and its other officers were only
waiting until they had taken in enough money to run away with it to a foreign country. Jonas,
sharp as he was, was deceived into believing it an honest enterprise. He came there to get
his wife's life insured, and so he met Tigg.

Tigg, however, knowing Jonas of old, knew he had a great deal of money of his own, and thought,
too, that he might influence Mr. Pecksniff, now his father-in-law. Tigg flattered Jonas accordingly,
telling him what a sharp man he was and offered to make him a director in the company. He assured
Jonas that there would be enormous profits and showed him how, by putting his own money into
it, he could cheat other people out of much more. This idea tickled Jonas and he agreed.

Having got thus far, Tigg hired a spy named Nadgett to see if he could discover whether Jonas
had ever committed any crime, the knowledge of which would put him in their power. Nadgett
began his work, got on the right side of Sairey Gamp, the nurse, found out that old Chuffey
was locked up for fear he might talk, and soon had a suspicion that Jonas had been concerned
in his father's death.

As an experiment Tigg boldly charged him with it one day, and knew in an instant, by the way
Jonas's face whitened with fear, that he had stumbled on the truth. He then told Jonas he not
only must put into the company more of his own money, but must persuade Pecksniff to do likewise.

Jonas dared not now refuse. He thought of escaping to some other country, but wherever he turned
he found Tigg's spies watching, and at last, he determined on a second murder to hide the first--the
murder of Tigg, who knew his secret.

Tigg did not forget his plan to ensnare Pecksniff. To do this he took Jonas by carriage from
London to Salisbury and, mile by mile, as they sped, the latter laid his plans. Near their
destination accident came near assisting him. In the storm the carriage was upset and Tigg
was thrown under the horses' feet. Jonas lashed the struggling horses, hoping they would trample
and kill his companion, but the driver pulled him out just in time.

They finally reached The Blue Dragon Inn, and there, the next day, Jonas brought Pecksniff
to dine with Tigg, and the latter told the architect all about his wonderful company. Though
Pecksniff pretended he took the idea as a joke, yet the thought of cheating other people for
big profits was very attractive to him. Before the evening was over he had fallen into the
trap and had promised next day to give Tigg his money.

Jonas, his part of the bargain finished, hurried back to London. There, after telling Mercy
not to disturb him, as he expected to sleep all next day, he locked himself into his room.
When it was dark he dressed himself in a rough suit that he had prepared for disguise, let
himself out by a rear way and took the stage back again to the village where he had left Tigg
with Pecksniff.

He lay in wait in a wood through which Tigg passed after his last call on the architect, and
there he killed him with a club. Then he went swiftly back to London and let himself into his
room again, thinking no one had noticed his absence.

But there had been an eye at the shutter of the window in the house opposite that did not fail
to observe Jonas when he went and when he came. And this eye belonged to Nadgett, the spy.

IV

WHAT CAME OF MARTIN'S TRIP TO AMERICA

While these things were occurring, much had happened to Martin and Mark Tapley far away in America.

The sailing vessel on which they crossed was crowded and dirty, and in order to save their
money they had taken passage in the steerage. For a long time Martin was very seasick, and
even when he grew better he was so ashamed at having to travel in the worst and cheapest part
of the vessel that he would not go on deck.

But Tapley had none of this false pride. He made friends with all, helped every one he could
and soon became such a general favorite that (as he thought sadly) he was having much too good
a time for him to be jolly with any credit.

The long voyage of so many weeks came to an end at last, and they reached New York. They found
it a strange place indeed, and met many strange characters in it. Only one they met pleased
them: a gentleman named Bevan, and from him they got much information and advice. There seemed,
however, to be little opening for an architect in New York, and Martin at length decided to
go West and settle in some newer region.

In the western town where they left the train they found a land agent who was selling lots
in a new settlement, on the Mississippi River, called Eden. To buy their railway tickets Martin
had already sold the ring Mary Graham had given him, and he had just enough to purchase a tract
of land in Eden and to pay their fare there.

Martin looked at the agent's splendid plans of the new town, showing wharves, churches and
public buildings, and thought it a capital place for a young architect; so they closed the
bargain without more ado and took the next steamer down the desolate Mississippi.

A terrible disappointment awaited them when they found what Eden really was--a handful of rotting
log cabins set in a swamp. The wharves and public buildings existed only on the agent's map
with which he had so cruelly cheated them. There were only a few wan men alive there--the rest
had succumbed to the sickly hot vapor that rose from the swamp and hung in the air. At the
sight of what they had come to, Martin lay down and wept in very despair. But for his comrade's
cheerfulness he would have wholly given up hope.

Next morning Martin found himself in the grip of the deadly fever with which the place reeked,
and for many days thereafter he lay helpless and burning, nursed like a child by the faithful
Mark Tapley. When he had begun to recover it came the other's turn to fall ill and Martin took
his place at nursing.

Through all Tapley never complained. At last he found himself in circumstances where to be
jolly was really a credit to anybody. He always insisted that he was in great spirits, and
when he was weakest and could not speak he wrote "jolly" on a slate for Martin to see.

Watching beside his friend day by day, Martin came to know himself truly and to see his own
selfishness. As he nursed Tapley to health again he determined to root it out of his nature
and to return to England a nobler man. He began to think not of what he had sacrificed for
Mary, but of what she would have sacrificed for him, and to wish with all his heart that he
had not parted from his grandfather in anger. And even before Tapley was able to sit up Martin
had determined to return as soon as possible to England.

He laid aside his pride and wrote to Bevan, who had befriended them in New York, to borrow
money enough to bring them both to that city. Once there, Tapley found a position as cook in
the same ship that had brought them from England and his wages proved sufficient to pay for
Martin's passage.

So Martin started back to the home he had parted from a year before, poorer than he had left
it, but at heart a better and a sounder man. His false pride was gone now. He mingled with
others and helped them, and by the time they landed he was as popular a passenger as Mark Tapley
was a cook.

Almost the first man they saw on landing, curiously enough, was the oily Pecksniff. They saw
him escorted along the street, pointed out by the crowds as "the great architect." On that
day the corner stone of a splendid public building was to be laid, and Pecksniff's design for
this structure had taken the prize. The two comrades went with the crowd to hear Pecksniff's
speech, and looking over a gentleman's shoulder at a picture of the building as it was to look,
Martin saw that it was the very grammar school he himself had designed when he had first come
to Pecksniff's. The old rascal had stolen the plans!

Martin was angry, of course, but there was no help for it, and besides he had other things
to think of. Mary Graham, to be sure, was his first thought, and he and Tapley set out at once
for The Blue Dragon to learn the latest news.

The rosy landlady laughed and cried together to see them and Mark Tapley kissed her so many
times that she was quite out of breath. She cooked the finest dinner in the world for them
and told them all she knew about their friends: how Tom Pinch had been sent away, and how every
one said that Pecksniff intended to marry Mary. This news made Martin grind his teeth, and
it would have been unlucky for the architect if he had been near at that moment.

Martin first sent Tapley with a note addressed to his grandfather, but Pecksniff, who came
to the door, tore up the letter before the bearer's face. Mark told Martin of this, and together
they forced themselves into the house, and into the room where old Chuzzlewit sat, with Pecksniff
beside him, and Mary standing behind his chair.

Martin's grandfather hardly looked at him, keeping his eyes on Pecksniff's face, as though
he depended on him even for his thoughts. Martin, seeing this, was almost hopeless, but he
did as he had determined, and in a few manly words begged old Chuzzlewit's pardon for his own
haste and temper, and asked him to take him back to his favor. While he talked, Mary had hidden
her face in her hands and was weeping, for she believed his grandfather so wholly in Pecksniff's
power that she had no hope for Martin.

Pecksniff was in rare good humor, for it was this very day that he had turned his money over
to Tigg to make a fortune for him in the great Anglo-Bengalee Company. Now, rejoicing in his
opportunity, he took it upon himself to answer. He called Martin a shameless, cowardly vagabond
and ordered him from the door. Then he gave his arm to the old man and led him out of the room.

Martin clasped Mary for a moment in his arms as he kissed her and told her to keep up heart.
Then he left the house and set out with Mark Tapley for London.

V

OLD CHUZZLEWIT'S PLOT SUCCEEDS

Where was the guilty Jonas meanwhile? Shivering at every sound, listening for the news that
Tigg's body had been found in the wood, wondering if by any chance the crime might be laid on him.

Already fate was weaving a net about his feet. The man from whom he had bought the poison to
kill his father had fallen very ill, and in his illness had repented of the part he had played.
He had confessed to Westlock, whom, before he had fallen into wicked company, he had once known.
Westlock sent for old Chuzzlewit, and he, too, was told the story of the purchased poison.
Then together the three went to Jonas's house and brought him face to face with his accuser.

Confronted with their evidence Jonas gave himself up for lost, but old Chuffey, whom he had
so abused, escaped the watchful eye of Sairey Gamp and entered just in time to keep his promise
to his dead master and to clear Jonas, the son. He told them how it had really happened: How
Jonas had intended to kill his father but how the latter's death had been due, not to the poison
which he had never taken, but to the knowledge of his son's wickedness.

Jonas, in the reaction from his fear, laughed aloud, and was abusively ordering them to leave,
when the door opened and the color suddenly left his cheeks. Policemen stood there, and at
their head was Nadgett, the spy.

In another moment there were handcuffs on his wrists and he knew not only that the murder of
Tigg had been discovered, but that every action of his own on that fatal night had been traced
and that he was surely doomed to die on the gallows.

When he realized that he was lost he fell to the floor in pitiable fear. They put him in a
wagon to take him to jail, but when they arrived there they found him motionless in his seat.
He had swallowed some of his own poison which he carried in his pocket, and was as dead as
any hangman could have made him.

Old Chuzzlewit had yet another purpose to carry out before he left London, and for this purpose
he asked Westlock to meet him in his rooms at a certain time next day. He sent for Tom Pinch
and his sister Ruth, for his grandson Martin, and Mark Tapley, and last, but not least, for
Pecksniff himself, all to meet him there at the same hour.

All save Pecksniff arrived together, and greatly astonished most of them were, you may be sure,
to see old Chuzzlewit so changed. For now the dull, bent look had vanished. His eyes were bright,
his form erect and every feature eager and full of purpose. Even Mary Graham scarcely knew
what to make of it.

As they sat wondering and waiting for old Chuzzlewit to speak, Pecksniff came hurriedly in,
to start back as if at a shock of electricity. But he recovered himself, and clasped his hands
with a look of pious joy to see the old man safe and well. Then he looked around him and shook
his head.

"Oh, vermin! Oh, bloodsuckers!" he said. "Horde of unnatural plunderers and robbers! Begone!
Leave him and do not stay in a spot hallowed by the gray hairs of this patriarchal gentleman!"

He advanced with outstretched arms, but he had not seen how tightly old Chuzzlewit's hand clasped
the walking-stick he held. The latter, in one great burst of indignation, rose up, and with
a single blow, stretched him on the ground. Mark Tapley dragged him into a corner and propped
him against the wall, and in this ridiculous position, cringing, and with his assurance all
gone, Pecksniff listened, as did they all, to the old man's story.

He told the assembled company how the curse of selfishness had seemed to him always to rest
upon his family. How he had misunderstood Martin, his best loved grandson, and how he had seen
Pecksniff doing his best to add to this bad feeling. He beckoned Martin to him and put Mary's
hand in his, as he told how he had tested them both and had at last resolved to see to what
a length the hypocrisy of Pecksniff would lead him. How to this end he had pretended feebleness
of mind and had planned and plotted finally to expose Pecksniff and set all right.

When he had finished the door was opened and Pecksniff, looking all shrunken and frowsy and
yellow, passed out, never to enter again into the lives of any of them.

There was a great and joyful gathering that night, when all these, so strangely united, took
dinner together. Martin sat beside Mary, while Westlock walked home with Ruth, and before they
reached there she had promised to be his wife.

Martin and Mary were married soon, and old Chuzzlewit made Martin his heir. He also gave a
home to poor Mercy, the wife of the dead Jonas. Tom Pinch lived a long and happy life in the
home which Westlock made for Ruth, where he had a fine organ on which he played every day.
Mark Tapley, of course, married the rosy landlady of The Blue Dragon, and settled down at the
inn, which he renamed The Jolly Tapley.

Charity Pecksniff succeeded in ensnaring her young man at last. The day they were to be married,
however, he did not come to the church, but ran off to Van Diemen's Land, and she lived and
died a vinegary, shrewish old maid.

As for Pecksniff himself, having lost all his money in the Anglo-Bengalee Company (which, of
course, went to pieces on Tigg's death), he sank lower and lower, till at last, a drunken,
squalid old man, he eked out a miserable existence writing whining begging letters to the very
people whom he had once labored so hard to make unhappy.

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND

Published 1864-1865

Scene: London and Neighboring Towns

Time: 1860

CHARACTERS

    Mr. Harmon                               A rich dust collector

    Mr. Boffin                    Foreman of the dust business and
                                     heir to the Harmon fortune
                    Known as "The Golden Dustman"

    Mrs. Boffin                                           His wife

    John Harmon                                   Mr. Harmon's son
            Later Mr. Boffin's secretary, under the name
                        of "John Rokesmith"

    Mr. Veneering             A rich man with social and political
                                                      ambitions

    Mr. Wilfer                   A clerk in Mr. Veneering's office

    Bella                                             His daughter

    Silas Wegg                          A one-legged ballad seller

    "Rogue" Riderhood                 A riverman of bad reputation
                        Later a lock tender

    Hexam                                               A riverman

    Charley                                                His son

    Lizzie                                            His daughter

    "Jenny Wren"              A crippled friend of Lizzie's, known
                                     as "The Dolls' Dressmaker"

    Eugene Wrayburn                        A reckless young lawyer

    Headstone                                       A schoolmaster

    Mr. Venus          A dismal young man with a dismal trade--the
                 stringing together of human skeletons on wires

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND

I

WHAT HAPPENED TO JOHN HARMON

In London there once lived an old man named Harmon who had made a great fortune by gathering
the dust and ashes of the city and sorting it for whatever it contained of value. He lived
in a house surrounded by great mounds of dust that he had collected.

He was a hard-hearted man and when his daughter would not marry as he wished he turned her
out of the house on a winter's night. The poor girl died soon after, and her younger brother
(a boy of only fourteen), indignant at his father's cruelty, ran away to a foreign country,
where for years he was not heard of.

The old man, hard-hearted as he was, and though he never spoke of the son save with anger and
curses, felt this keenly, for in his own way he had loved the boy.

