The glaring defeat of most of our volunteer regiments, from the beginning to this day, has
lain in slovenliness and remissness as to every department of military duty, except the actual
fighting and dying. When it comes to that ultimate test, our men usually endure it so magnificently
that one is tempted to overlook all deficiencies on intermediate points. But they must not
be overlooked, because they create a fearful discount on the usefulness of our troops, when
tried by the standard of regular armies. I do not now refer to the niceties of dress-parade
or the courtesies of salutation: it has long since been tacitly admitted that a white American
soldier will not present arms to any number of rows of buttons, if he can by any ingenuity
evade it; and to shoulder arms on passing an officer is something to which only Ethiopia or
the regular army can attain. Grant, if you please, (though I do not grant,) that these are
merely points of foolish punctilio. But there are many things which are more than punctilio,
though they may be less than fighting. The efficiency of a body of troops depends, after all,
not so much on its bravery as on the condition of its sick-list. A regiment which does picket-duty
faithfully will often avoid the need of duties more terrible. Yet I have ridden by night along
a chain of ten sentinels, every one of whom should have taken my life rather than permit me
to give the countersign without dismounting, and have been required to dismount by only four,
while two did not ask me for the countersign at all, and two others were asleep. I have ridden
through a regimental camp whose utterly filthy condition seemed enough to send malaria through
a whole military department, and have been asked by the colonel, almost with tears in his eyes,
to explain to him why his men were dying at the rate of one a day. The latter was a regiment
nearly a year old, and the former one of almost two years' service, and just from the old Army
of the Potomac.

The fault was, of course, in the officers. The officer makes the command, as surely as, in
educational matters, the teacher makes the school. There is not a regiment in the army so good
that it could not be utterly spoiled in three months by a poor commander, nor so poor that
it could not be altogether transformed in six by a good one. The difference in material is
nothing,--white or black, German or Irish; so potent is military machinery that an officer
who knows his business can make good soldiers out of almost anything, give him but a fair chance.
The difference between the present Army of the Potomac and any previous one,--the reason why
we do not daily hear, as in the early campaigns, of irresistible surprises, overwhelming numbers,
and masked batteries,--the reason why the present movements are a tide and not a wave,--is
not that the men are veterans, but that the officers are. There is an immense amount of perfectly
raw material in General Grant's force, besides the colored regiments, which in that army are
all raw, but in which the Copperhead critics have such faith they would gladly select them
for dangers fit for Napoleon's Old Guard. But the newest recruit soon grows steady with a steady
corporal at his elbow, a well-trained sergeant behind him, and a captain or a colonel whose
voice means something to give commands.

This reference to the colored troops suggests the false impression, still held by many, that
special opposition to this important military organization has been made by regular officers.
There is no justice in this. While it is very probable that regular officers, as a class, may
have had stronger prejudices on this point than others have held, yet it is to be remembered
that the chief obstacles have not come from them, nor from military men of any kind, but from
civilians at home. Nothing has been more remarkable than the facility with which the expected
aversion of the army everywhere vanished before the admirable behavior of the colored troops,
and the substantial value of the reinforcements they brought. When it comes to the simple question
whether a soldier shall go on duty every night or every other night, he is not critical as
to beauty of complexion in the soldier who relieves him.

Some regular officers may have been virulently opposed to the employment of negroes as soldiers,
though the few instances which I have known have been far more than compensated by repeated
acts of the most substantial kindness from many others. But I never have met one who did not
express contempt for the fraud thus far practised by Government on a portion of these troops,
by refusing to pay them the wages which the Secretary of War had guarantied. This is a wrong
which, but for good discipline, would have long since converted our older colored regiments
into a mob of mutineers, and which, while dishonestly saving the Government a few thousand
dollars, has virtually sacrificed hundreds of thousands in its discouraging effect upon enlistments,
at a time when the fate of the nation may depend upon a few regiments more or less. It is in
vain for national conventions to make capital by denouncing massacres like that of Fort Pillow,
and yet ignore this more deliberate injustice for which some of their own members are in part
responsible. The colored soldiers will take their own risk of capture and maltreatment very
readily, (since they must take it on themselves at any rate,) if the Government will let its
justice begin at home, and pay them their honest earnings. It is of little consequence to a
dying man whether any one else is to die by retaliation, but it is of momentous consequence
whether his wife and family are to be cheated of half his scanty earnings by the nation for
which he dies. The Rebels may be induced to concede the negro the rights of war, when we grant
him the ordinary rights of peace, namely, to be paid the price agreed upon. Jefferson Davis
and the London "Times"--one-half whose stock-in-trade is "the inveterate meanness of the Yankee"--will
hardly be converted to sound morals by the rebukes of an administration which allows its Secretary
of War to promise a black soldier thirteen dollars a month, pay him seven, and shoot him if
he grumbles. From this crowning injustice the regular army, and, indeed, the whole army, is
clear; to civilians alone belongs this carnival of fraud.

If, in some instances, terrible injustice has been done to the black soldiers in their military
treatment also, it has not been only, or chiefly, under regular officers. Against the cruel
fatigue duty imposed upon them last summer, in the Department of the South, for instance, must
be set the more disastrous mismanagements of the Department of the Gulf,--the only place from
which we now hear the old stories of disease and desertion,--all dating back to the astonishing
blunder of organizing the colored regiments of half-size at the outset, with a full complement
of officers. This measure, however agreeable it might have been to the horde of aspirants for
commissions, was in itself calculated to destroy all self-respect in the soldiers, being based
on the utterly baseless assumption that they required twice as many officers as whites, and
was foredoomed to failure, because no esprit de corps can be created in a regiment which is
from the first insignificant in respect to size. It is scarcely conceivable that any regular
officer should have honestly fallen into such an error as this; and it is very certain that
the wisest suggestions and the most efficient action have proceeded, since the beginning, from
them. It will be sufficient to mention the names of Major-General Hunter, Brigadier-General
Phelps, and Adjutant-General Thomas; and one there is whose crowning merits deserve a tribute
distinct even from these.

When some future Bancroft or Motley writes with philosophic brain and poet's hand the story
of the Great Civil War, he will find the transition to a new era in our nation's history to
have been fitly marked by one festal day,--that of the announcement of the President's Proclamation,
upon Port-Royal Island, on the first of January, 1863. That New-Year's time was our second
contribution to the great series of historic days, beads upon the rosary of the human race,
permanent festivals of freedom. Its celebration was one beside whose simple pageant the superb
festivals of other lands might seem but glittering counterfeits. Beneath a majestic grove of
the great live-oaks which glorify the South-Carolina soil a liberated people met to celebrate
their own peaceful emancipation. They came thronging, by land and water, from plantations which
their own self-imposed and exemplary industry was beginning already to redeem. The military
escort which surrounded them had been organized out of their own numbers, and had furnished
to the nation the first proof of the capacity of their race to bear arms. The key-note of the
meeting was given by spontaneous voices, whose unexpected anthem took the day from the management
of well-meaning patrons, and swept all away into the great currents of simple feeling. It was
a scene never to be forgotten: the moss-hung trees, with their hundred-feet diameter of shade;
the eager faces of women and children in the foreground; the many-colored headdresses; the
upraised hands; the neat uniforms of the soldiers; the outer row of mounted officers and ladies;
and beyond all the blue river, with its swift, free tide. The single career of this one man
more than atones for all the traitors whom West Point ever nurtured, and awards the highest
place on the roll of our practical statesmanship to the regular army.

THE TOTAL DEPRAVITY OF INANIMATE THINGS.

I am confident, that, at the annunciation of my theme, Andover, Princeton, and Cambridge will
skip like rams, and the little hills of East Windsor, Meadville, and Fairfax, like lambs. However
divinity-schools may refuse to "skip" in unison, and may butt and batter each other about the
doctrine and origin of human depravity, all will join devoutly in the credo, I believe in the
total depravity of inanimate things.

The whole subject lies in a nutshell, or rather an apple-skin. We have clerical authority for
affirming that all its miseries were let loose upon the human race by "them greenins" tempting
our mother to curious pomological speculations; and from that time till now--Longfellow, thou
reasonest well!--"things are not what they seem," but are diabolically otherwise,--masked-batteries,
nets, gins, and snares of evil.

(In this connection I am reminded of--can I ever cease to remember?--the unlucky lecturer at
our lyceum a few winters ago, who, on rising to address his audience, applauding him all the
while most vehemently, pulled out his handkerchief, for oratorical purposes only, and inadvertently
flung from his pocket three "Baldwins" that a friend had given to him on his way to the hall,
straight into the front row of giggling girls.)

My zeal on this subject received new impetus recently from an exclamation which pierced the
thin partitions of the country-parsonage, once my home, where I chanced to be a guest.

From the adjoining dressing-room issued a prolonged "Y-ah!"--not the howl of a spoiled child,
nor the protest of a captive gorilla, but the whole-souled utterance of a mighty son of Anak,
whose amiability is invulnerable to weapons of human aggravation.

I paused in the midst of toilet-exigencies, and listened sympathetically, for I recognized
the probable presence of the old enemy to whom the bravest and sweetest succumb.

Confirmation and explanation followed speedily in the half apologetic, wholly wrathful declaration,--"The
pitcher was made foolish in the first place." I dare affirm, that, if the spirit of Lindley
Murray himself were at that moment hovering over that scene of trial, he dropped a tear, or,
better still, an adverbial ly upon the false grammar, and blotted it out forever.

I comprehended the scene at once. I had been there. I felt again the remorseless swash of the
water over neat boots and immaculate hose; I saw the perverse intricacies of its meanderings
over the carpet, upon which the "foolish" pitcher had been confidingly deposited; I knew, beyond
the necessity of ocular demonstration, that, as sure as there were "pipe-hole" or crack in
the ceiling of the study below, those inanimate things would inevitably put their evil heads
together, and bring to grief the long-suffering Dominie, with whom, during my day, such inundations
had been of at least bi-weekly occurrence, instigated by crinoline. The inherent wickedness
of that "thing of beauty" will be acknowledged by all mankind, and by every female not reduced
to the deplorable poverty of the heroine of the following veracious anecdote.

A certain good bishop, on making a tour of inspection through a mission-school of his diocese,
was so impressed by the aspect of all its beneficiaries that his heart overflowed with joy,
and he exclaimed to a little maiden whose appearance was particularly suggestive of creature-comforts,--"Why,
my little girl! you have everything that heart can wish, haven't you?" Imagine the bewilderment
and horror of the prelate, when the miniature Flora McFlimsey drew down the corners of her
mouth lugubriously, and sought to accommodate the puffs and dimples of her fat little body
to an expression of abject misery, as she replied,--"No, indeed, Sir! I haven't got any--skeleton!"

We who have suffered know the disposition of graceless "skeletons" to hang themselves on "foolish"
pitchers, bureau-knobs, rockers, cobble-stones, splinters, nails, and, indeed, any projection
a tenth of a line beyond a dead level.

The mention of nails is suggestive of voluminous distresses. Country-parsonages, from some
inexplicable reason, are wont to bristle all over with these impish assailants of human comfort.

I never ventured to leave my masculine relatives to their own devices for more than twenty-four
consecutive hours, that I did not return to find that they had seemingly manifested their grief
at my absence after the old Hebraic method, ("more honored in the breach than the observance,")
by rending their garments. When summoned to their account, the invariable defence has been
a vehement denunciation of some particular nail as the guilty cause of my woes.

By the way, O Christian woman of the nineteenth century, did it ever enter your heart to give
devout thanks that you did not share the woe of those whose fate it was to "sojourn in Mesech
and dwell in the tents of Kedar"? that it did not fall to your lot to do the plain sewing and
mending for some Jewish patriarch, patriot, or prophet of yore?

Realize, if you can, the masculine aggravation and the feminine long-suffering of a period
when the head of a family could neither go down-town, nor even sit at his tent-door, without
descrying some wickedness in high places, some insulting placard, some exasperating war-bulletin,
some offensive order from head-quarters, which caused him to transform himself instantly into
an animated rag-bag. Whereas, in these women-saving days, similar grievances send President
Abraham into his cabinet to issue a proclamation, the Reverend Jeremiah into his pulpit with
a scathing homily, Poet-Laureate David to the "Atlantic" with a burning lyric, and Major-General
Joab to the privacy of his tent, there to calm his perturbed spirit with Drake's Plantation
Bitters. In humble imitation of another, I would state that this indorsement of the potency
of a specific is entirely gratuitous, and that I am stimulated thereto by no remuneration,
fluid or otherwise.

Blessed be this day of sewing-machines for women, and of safety-valves and innocent explosives
for their lords!

But this is a digression.

I awoke very early in life to the consciousness that I held the doctrine which we are considering.

On a hapless day when I was perhaps five years old, I was, in my own estimation, intrusted
with the family-dignity, when I was deposited for the day at the house of a lordly Pharisee
of the parish, with solemnly repeated instructions in table-manners and the like.

One who never analyzed the mysteries of a sensitive child's heart cannot appreciate the sense
of awful responsibility which oppressed me during that visit. But all went faultlessly for
a time. I corrected myself instantly each time. I said, "Yes, Ma'am," to Mr. Simon, and "No,
Sir," to Madam, which was as often as I addressed them; I clenched little fists and lips resolutely,
that they might not touch, taste, handle, tempting bijouterie; I even held in check the spirit
of inquiry rampant within me, and indulged myself with only one question to every three minutes
of time.

At last I found myself at the handsome dinner-table, triumphantly mounted upon two "Comprehensive
Commentaries" and a dictionary, fearing no evil from the viands before me. Least of all did
I suspect the vegetables of guile. But deep in the heart of a bland, mealy-mouthed potato lurked
cruel designs upon my fair reputation.

No sooner had I, in the most approved style of nursery good-breeding, applied my fork to its
surface, than the hardhearted thing executed a wild pirouette before my astonished eyes, and
then flew on impish wings across the room, dashing out its malicious brains, I am happy to
say, against the parlor-door, but leaving me in a half-comatose state, stirred only by vague
longings for a lodge with "proud Korah's troop," whose destination is unmistakably set forth
in the "Shorter Catechism."

There is a possibility that I received my innate distrust of things by inheritance from my
maternal grandmother, whose holy horror at the profanity they once provoked from a bosom-friend
in her childhood was still vivid in her old age.

It was on this wise. When still a pretty Puritan maiden, my grandame was tempted irresistibly
by the spring sunshine to the tabooed indulgence of a Sunday-walk. The temptation was probably
intensified by the presence of the British troops, giving unwonted fascination to village-promenades.
Her confederate in this guilty pleasure was a like-minded little saint; so there was a tacit
agreement between them that their transgression should be sanctified by a strict adherence
to religious topics of conversation. Accordingly they launched boldly upon the great subject
which was just then agitating church-circles in New England.

Fortune smiled upon these criminals against the Blue Laws, until they encountered a wall surmounted
by hickory rails. Without intermitting the discussion, Susannah sprang agilely up. Quoth she,
balancing herself for one moment upon the summit,--"No, no, Betsey! I believe God is the author
of sin!" The next she sprang toward the ground; but a salient splinter, a chip of depravity,
clutched her Sunday-gown, and converted her incontinently, it seems, into a confessor of the
opposing faith; for history records, that, following the above-mentioned dogma, there came
from hitherto unstained lips,--"The Devil!"

Time and space would, of course, be inadequate to the enumeration of all the demonstrations
of the truth of the doctrine of the absolute depravity of things. A few examples only can be cited.

There is melancholy pleasure in the knowledge that a great soul has gone mourning before me
in the path I am now pursuing. It was only to-day, that, in glancing over the pages of Victor
Hugo's greatest work, I chanced upon the following:--"Every one will have noticed with what
skill a coin let fall upon the ground runs to hide itself, and what art it has in rendering
itself invisible; there are thoughts which play us the same trick," etc., etc.

The similar tendency of pins and needles is universally understood and execrated,--their base
secretiveness when searched for, and their incensing intrusion when one is off guard.

I know a man whose sense of their malignity is so keen, that, whenever he catches a gleam of
their treacherous lustre on the carpet, he instantly draws his two and a quarter yards of length
into the smallest possible compass, and shrieks until the domestic police come to the rescue,
and apprehend the sharp little villains. Do not laugh at this. Years ago he lost his choicest
friend by the stab of just such a little dastard lying in ambush.

So also every wielder of the needle is familiar with the propensity of the several parts of
a garment in the process of manufacture to turn themselves wrong side out, and down side up;
and the same viciousness cleaves like leprosy to the completed garment so long as a thread remains.

My blood still tingles with a horrible memory illustrative of this truth.

Dressing hurriedly and in darkness for a concert one evening, I appealed to the Dominie, as
we passed under the hall-lamp, for a toilet-inspection.

"How do I look, father?"

After a sweeping glance came the candid statement,--

"Beau-tifully!"

Oh, the blessed glamour which invests a child whose father views her "with a critic's eye"!

"Yes, of course; but look carefully, please; how is my dress?"

Another examination of apparently severest scrutiny.

"All right, dear! That's the new cloak, is it? Never saw you look better. Come, we shall be late."

Confidingly I went to the hall; confidingly I entered; since the concert-room was crowded with
rapt listeners to the Fifth Symphony, I, gingerly, but still confidingly, followed the author
of my days, and the critic of my toilet, to the very uppermost seat, which I entered, barely
nodding to my finically fastidious friend, Guy Livingston, who was seated near us with a stylish-looking
stranger, who bent eyebrows and glass upon me superciliously.

Seated, the Dominie was at once lifted into the midst of the massive harmonies of the Adagio;
I lingered outside a moment, in order to settle my garments and--that woman's look. What! was
that a partially suppressed titter near me? Ah! she has no soul for music! How such ill-timed
merriment will jar upon my friend's exquisite sensibilities!

Shade of Beethoven! A hybrid cough and laugh, smothered decorously, but still recognizable,
from the courtly Guy himself! What can it mean?

In my perturbation, my eyes fell and rested upon the sack, whose newness and glorifying effect
had been already noticed by my lynx-eyed parent.

I here pause to remark that I had intended to request the compositor to "set up" the coming
sentence in explosive capitals, by way of emphasis, but forbear, realizing that it already
staggers under the weight of its own significance.

That sack was wrong side out!

Stern necessity, proverbially known as "the mother of invention," and practically the step-mother
of ministers' daughters, had made me eke out the silken facings of the front with cambric linings
for the back and sleeves. Accordingly, in the full blaze of the concert-room, there sat I,
"accoutred as I was," in motley attire,--my homely little economies patent to admiring spectators:
on either shoulder, budding wings composed of unequal parts of sarcenet-cambric and cotton-batting;
and in my heart--parricide I had almost said, but it was rather the more filial sentiment of
desire to operate for cataract upon my father's eyes. But a moment's reflection sufficed to
transfer my indignation to its proper object,--the sinful sack itself, which, concerting with
its kindred darkness, had planned this cruel assault upon my innocent pride.

A constitutional obtuseness renders me delightfully insensible to one fruitful source of provocation
among inanimate things. I am so dull as to regard all distinctions between "rights" and "lefts"
as invidious; but I have witnessed the agonized struggles of many a victim of fractious boots,
and been thankful that "I am not as other men are," in ability to comprehend the difference
between my right and left foot. Still, as already intimated, I have seen wise men driven mad
by a thing of leather and waxed-ends.

A little innocent of three years, in all the pride of his first boots, was aggravated, by the
perversity of the right to thrust itself on to the left leg, to the utterance of a contraband
expletive.

When reproved by his horror-stricken mamma, he maintained a dogged silence.

In order to pierce his apparently indurated conscience, his censor finally said, solemnly,--

"Dugald! God knows that you said that wicked word."

"Does He?" cried the baby-victim of reral depravity, in a tone of relief; "then He knows it
was a doke" (Anglicè, joke).

But, mind you, the sin-tempting boot intended no "doke."

The toilet, with its multiform details and complicated machinery, is a demon whose surname
is Legion.

Time would fail me to speak of the elusiveness of soap, the knottiness of strings, the transitory
nature of buttons, the inclination of suspenders to twist, and of hooks to forsake their lawful
eyes, and cleave only unto the hairs of their hapless owner's head. (It occurs to me as barely
possible, that, in the last case, the hooks may be innocent, and the sinfulness may lie in
capillary attraction.)

And, O my brother or sister in sorrow, has it never befallen you, when bending all your energies
to the mighty task of "doing" your back-hair, to find yourself gazing inanely at the opaque
back of your brush, while the hand-mirror, which had maliciously insinuated itself into your
right hand for this express purpose, came down upon your devoted head with a resonant whack?

I have alluded, parenthetically, to the possible guilt of capillary attraction, but I am prepared
to maintain against the attraction of gravitation the charge of total depravity. Indeed, I
should say of it, as did the worthy exhorter of the Dominie's old parish in regard to slavery,--"It's
the wickedest thing in the world, except sin!"

It was only the other day that I saw depicted upon the young divine's countenance, from this
cause, thoughts "too deep for tears," and, perchance, too earthy for clerical utterance.

From a mingling of sanitary and economic considerations, he had cleared his own sidewalk after
a heavy snow-storm. As he stood, leaning upon his shovel, surveying with smiling complacency
his accomplished task, the spite of the arch-fiend Gravitation was raised against him, and,
finding the impish slates (hadn't Luther something to say about "as many devils as tiles"?)
ready to coöperate, an avalanche was the result, making the last state of that sidewalk worse
than the first, and sending the divine into the house with a battered hat, and an article of
faith supplementary to the orthodox thirty-nine.

Prolonged reflection upon a certain class of grievances has convinced me that mankind has generally
ascribed them to a guiltless source. I refer to the unspeakable aggravation of "typographical
errors," rightly so called,--for, in nine cases out of ten, I opine it is the types themselves
which err.

I appeal to fellow-sufferers, if the substitutions and interpolations and false combinations
of letters are not often altogether too absurd for humanity.

Take, as one instance, the experience of a friend, who, in writing in all innocency of a session
of the Historical Society, affirmed mildly in manuscript, "All went smoothly," but weeks after
was made to declare in blatant print, "All went snoringly!"

As among men, so in the alphabet, one sinner destroyeth much good.

The genial Senator from the Granite Hills told me of an early aspiration of his own for literary
distinction, which was beheaded remorselessly by a villain of this type. By way of majestic
peroration to a pathetic article, he had exclaimed, "For what would we exchange the fame of
Washington?"--referring, I scarcely need say, to the man of fragrant memory, and not to the
odorous capital. The black-hearted little dies, left to their own devices one night, struck
dismay to the heart of the aspirant author by propounding in black and white a prosaic inquiry
as to what would be considered a fair equivalent for the farm of the father of his country!

Among frequent instances of this depravity in my own experience, a flagrant example still shows
its ugly front on a page of a child's book. In the latest edition of "Our Little Girls," (good
Mr. Randolph, pray read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest,) there occurs a description of a
christening, wherein a venerable divine is made to dip "his head" into the consecrating water,
and lay it upon the child.

Disembodied words are also sinners and the occasions of sin. Who has not broken the Commandments
in consequence of the provocation of some miserable little monosyllabic eluding his grasp in
the moment of his direst need, or of some impertinent interloper thrusting itself in to the
utter demoralization of his well-organized sentences? Who has not been covered with shame at
tripping over the pronunciation of some perfectly simple word like "statistics," "inalienable,"
"inextricable," etc., etc., etc.?

Whose experience will not empower him to sympathize with that unfortunate invalid, who, on
being interrogated by a pious visitor in regard to her enjoyment of means of grace, informed
the horror-stricken inquisitor,--"I have not been to church for years, I have been such an
infidel,"--and then, moved by a dim impression of wrong somewhere, as well as by the evident
shock inflicted upon her worthy visitor, but conscious of her own integrity, repeated still
more emphatically,--"No; I have been a confirmed infidel for years."

But a peremptory summons from an animated nursery forbids my lingering longer in this fruitful
field. I can only add an instance of corroborating testimony from each member of the circle
originating this essay.

The Dominie loq.--"Sha'n't have anything to do with it! It's a wicked thing! To be sure, I
do remember, when I was a little boy, I used to throw stones at the chip-basket when it upset
the cargo I had just laded, and it was a great relief to my feelings too. Besides, you've told
stories about me which were anything but true. I don't remember anything about that sack."

Lady-visitor loq.--"The first time I was invited to Mr. ----'s, (the Hon. ---- ----'s, you
know,) I was somewhat anxious, but went home flattering myself I had made a creditable impression.
Imagine my consternation, when I came to relieve the pocket of my gala-gown, donned for the
occasion, at discovering among its treasures a tea-napkin, marked gorgeously with the Hon.
---- ----'s family-crest, which had maliciously crept into its depths in order to bring me
into disgrace! I have never been able to bring myself to the point of confession, in spite
of my subsequent intimacy with the family. If it were not for Joseph's positive assertion to
the contrary, I should be of the opinion that his cup of divination conjured itself deliberately
and sinfully into innocent Benjamin's sack."

Student loq. (Testimony open to criticism.)--"Met pretty girl on the street yesterday. Sure
I had on my 'Armstrong' hat when I left home,--sure as fate; but when I went to pull it off,--by
the crown, of course,--to bow to pretty girl, I smashed in my beaver! How it got there don't
know. Knocked it off. Pretty girl picked it up and handed it to me. Confounded things, any way!"

Young divine loq.--"While I was in the army, I was in Washington on 'leave' for two or three
days. One night, at a party, I became utterly bewildered in an attempt to converse, after long
desuetude, with a fascinating woman. I went stumbling on, amazing her more and more, until
finally I covered myself with glory by the categorical statement that in my opinion General
McClellan could 'never get across the Peninsula without a fattle; I beg pardon, Madam! what
I mean to say is, without a bight.'"

School-girl loq.--"When Uncle ---- was President, I was at the White House at a state-dinner
one evening. Senator ---- came rushing in frantically after we had been at table some time.
No sooner was he seated than he turned to Aunt to apologize for his delay; and, being very
much heated, and very much embarrassed, he tugged away desperately at his pocket, and finally
succeeded in extracting a huge blue stocking, evidently of home-manufacture, with which he
proceeded to wipe his forehead very energetically and very conspicuously. I suppose the truth
was that the poor man's handkerchiefs were "on a strike," and thrust forward this homespun
stocking to bring him to terms."

School-girl, No. 2, loq.--"My last term at F., I was expecting a box of 'goodies' from home.
So when the message came, 'An express-package for you, Miss Fanny!' I invited all my specials
to come and assist at the opening. Instead of the expected box, there appeared a misshapen-bundle,
done up in yellow wrapping-paper. Four such dejected-looking damsels were never seen before
as we, standing around the ugly old thing. Finally, Alice suggested,--

"'Open it!'

"'Oh, I know what it is,' I said; 'it is my old Thibet, that mother has had made over for me.'

"'Let's see,' persisted Alice.

"So I opened the package. The first thing I drew out was too much for me.

"'What a funny-looking basque!' exclaimed Alice. All the rest were struck dumb with disappointment.

"No! not a basque at all, but a man's black satin waistcoat! and next came objects about which
there could be no doubt,--a pair of dingy old trousers, and a swallow-tailed coat! Imagine
the chorus of damsels!

"The secret was, that two packages lay in father's office,--one for me, the other for those
everlasting freedmen. John was to forward mine. He had taken up the box to write my address
on it, when the yellow bundle tumbled off the desk at his feet and scared the wits out of his
head. So I came in for father's secondhand clothes, and the Ethiopians had the 'goodies'!"

Repentant Dominie loq.--"I don't approve of it at all; but then, if you must write the wicked
thing, I heard a good story for you to-day. Dr. ---- found himself in the pulpit of a Dutch
Reformed Church the other Sunday. You know he is one who prides himself on his adaptation to
places and times. Just at the close of the introductory services, a black gown lying over the
arm of the sofa caught his eye. He was rising to deliver his sermon, when it forced itself
on his attention again.

"'Sure enough,' thought he, 'Dutch Reformed clergymen do wear gowns. I might as well put it on.'

"So he solemnly thrust himself into the malicious (as you would say) garment, and went through
the services as well as he could, considering that his audience seemed singularly agitated,
and indeed on the point of bursting out into a general laugh, throughout the entire service.
And no wonder! The good Doctor, in his zeal for conformity, had attired himself in the black
cambric duster in which the pulpit was shrouded during week-days, and had been gesticulating
his eloquent homily with his arms thrust through the holes left for the pulpit-lamps!"

WHAT SHALL WE HAVE FOR DINNER?

I think I must be personally known to most of the readers of the "Atlantic." I see them wherever
I go, and they see me. Beneath a shelter-tent by the Rapidan, in a striped railroad-station
in Bavaria, at the counter of Trübner's bookstore in London, and at Cordaville, in Worcester
County, Massachusetts, as we waited for the freight to get out of the way, I have read the
"Atlantic" over their shoulders, or they over mine. The same thing has happened at six hundred
and thirty-two other improbable places. More than this, however, my words and works in the
great science of Domestic Economy have travelled everywhere before me, not simply like the
Connecticut of the poet,

    "Bringing shad to South Hadley, and pleasure to man,"[35]

but extending all over the civilized world. Not that I am the author of the clothes-wringing
machine, or of the spring clothes-pin,--my influence has been more subtile. I have propounded
great central axioms in housekeeping and the other economies, which have rushed over the world
with the inevitable momentum of truth. It was I, for instance, who first discovered and proclaimed
the great governing fact that the butter of a family costs more than its bread. It was I who
first announced that you cannot economize in the quality of your paper. I am the discoverer
of the formula that a family consumes as many barrels of flour in a year as it has adult members,
reducing children to adults by the rule of three. The morning after our marriage I raised the
window-shade, so that the rising sun of that auspicious day should shine full upon our parlor-Brussels.
I said to Lois, "Let us never be slaves to our carpets!" The angel smiled assent; and on the
wings of that smile my whisper fluttered over the earth. It brooded in a thousand homes else
miserable. Light was where before was chaos. Sunshine drove scrofula from ten thousand quivering
frames, and millions of infant lips would this day raise Lois's name and mine in their Kindergarten
songs, did they only know who were their benefactors.

Standing thus in the centre of the sphere of the domestic economies, I have, of course, read
with passionate interest the "House and Home Papers" in the "Atlantic." It is I, as I am proud
to confess, who have, violated all copyright, have had them reprinted, as Tract No. 2237 of
the American Tract Society, No. 63 of the American Tract Society of Boston, and No. 445 of
the issues of the Sanitary Commission, and am now about to introduce them surreptitiously into
the bureaus of these charities, so that the colporteurs, of every stripe, may at last be certain
that they are conferring the first of benefits upon their homeless fellow-creatures. It is
I who every night toil through long streets that I may slide these little tracts, messengers
of blessing, under the front-doors of wretched friends, who are dying without homes in the
gilded miseries of their bowling-alley parlors. Where they have introduced the patent weather-strip,
I place the tract on the upper door-step, with a brick-bat, which keeps it from blowing away.
But I observe that it is no part of the plan of those charming papers, more than it was of
the "Novum Organon" or of the "Principia," to descend into the details of the economies. I
suppose that the author left all that to the "Domestic Economy" of her excellent sister, and,
as far as the details of practice go, well she might. But between that practical detail by
which one sister cooks to-day the dinners on a million tables, and the æsthetic, moral, and
religious considerations by which the other sister elevates the life of the million homes in
whose dining-rooms those tables stand, there is room for a brief exposition of the principles
on which those dinners are to be selected.

It is that exposition which, as I sit superior, I am to give, ex cathedra, after this long
preface, now.

I shall illustrate the necessity of this exposition by an introduction to follow the preface,
after the manner of the Germans, before we arrive at the substance of our work, which will
be itself comprised in its first chapter. This introduction will consist of two illustrations.
The first relates to the planting of potatoes. When I inherited my ancestral estate, known
as "Crusoe's Well," I resolved to devote it to potatoes for the first summer. I summoned my
vassals, and we fenced it. I bought dung and manured it. I hired ploughmen and oxen, and they
ploughed it. I made a covenant with a Kelt, who became, quoad hoc, my slave, and gave to him
money, with which I directed him to buy seed-potatoes and plant it.

And he,--"How many shall I buy?"

I retired to my study, consulted London, Lindley, and Linnæus,--the thick Gray, the middling
Gray, and the child's Gray,--Worcester's Dictionary, and Webster's, in both of which you can
usually find almost anything but what should be there,--Johnson's "Dictionary of Gardening,"
and Gardner's "Dictionary of Farming,"--and none of these treatises mentioned the quantity
of potatoes proper for planting a given space of land. Even the Worcester and Webster failed.
I was reduced to tell the Kelt to ask the huckster of whom he bought. All the treatises went
on the principle--true, but inadequate--that "any fool would know." Any fool might, probably
does,--but I was not a fool.

The next year, having built my house and taken Lois home, the bluebirds sang spring to us one
fine morning, and we went out to plant our radish-seeds. With fit forethought, the seed had
been bought, the ground manured and raked, the string, the dibble, the woman's trowel, the
man's trowel, the sticks for the seed-papers, and the papers were all there. Lois was charming,
in her sun-bonnet; I looked knowing in my Canadian oat-straw. We marked out the bed,--as the
robins, meadow-larks, and bluebirds directed. Lois then looked up article "Radish" in the "Farmer's
Dictionary," and we found the lists of "Long White Naples," "White Spanish," "Black Spanish,"
"Long Scarlet," "White Turnip-Root," "Purple Turnip," and the rest, for two columns, which
we should and should not plant. All that was nothing to us. We were to plant radish-seeds,
which we had bought, as such, from Mr. Swett. How deep to plant them, how far apart or how
near together, the book was to tell. But the book only said, "Everybody knows how to plant
radishes."

Now this was not true. We did not know.

These two illustrations, as the minister says, are sufficient to show the character of the
deficiency which I am now to supply,--which young housekeepers of intelligence feel, when they
have got their nests ready and begin to bill and coo in-doors. There are many things which
every fool knows, which people of sense do not know. First among these things is, "What will
you have for dinner?"--a question not to be answered by detailed answers,--on the principle
of the imaginary Barmacide feasts of the cook-books,--but by the results of deep principles,
which underlie, indeed, the whole superficial strata of civilized life. Did not the army of
the Punjaub perish, as it retreated from Ghizni to Jelalabad, not because the enemy's lances
were strong, but because one day it did not dine?

I am not going to tell the old story of that "sweet pretty girl" who, after a week of legs
of mutton, ordered a "leg of beef." I sympathize with her from the bottom of my heart. Her
sister will be married to-morrow. To her I dedicate this paper, that she may know, not what
she shall order,--that is left to her own sweet will, less fettered now that her life is rounded
by her welding it upon its other half than it was when she wandered in maiden meditation fancy-free,--not,
I say, what she shall order for her dinner and for Leander's, but the principle on which the
order is to be given.

"But, my dear Mr. Carter," says the blushing child, as she reads, "we have got to be so dreadfully
economical!"

Fairest of your sex, there was never one of your sex, since Eve finished the apple, lest any
should be wasted, nor of my sex, since Adam grimly champed the parings, thinking he was "in
for it," who should not be economical. A just economy is the law of a luxurious life. "Dreadful
economy" is the principle which is now to be unfolded to you.

Economy in itself is one of the most agreeable of luxuries. This I need not demonstrate. Everybody
knows what good fun it is to make a bargain. Economy becomes dreadful, only when some lightning-flash
of truth shows us that our painful frugality has been really the most lavish waste.

So Lois and I, for nine years, lived without a corkscrew. We would buy busts and chromoliths
with our money instead,--we would go to the White Mountains, we would maintain an elegant æsthetic
hospitality, as they do in Paris, with the money we should save by doing without a corkscrew.
So I spoiled two sets of kitchen-forks by drawing corks with them, I broke the necks of legions
of bottles for which Mr. Tarr would have credited me two cents each, and many times damaged,
even to the swearing-point, one of the sweetest tempers in the world,--all that we might economize
on this corkscrew. But one day, at the corner-shop, I saw a corkscrew in the glass show-case,
lying on some pocket-combs and family dye-stuffs. I asked the price, to learn that it cost
seventeen cents. The resolution of years gave way before the temptation. I bought the corkscrew,
and from that moment my income has equalled my expenses. So you see, my sweet May-bud, just
trembling on the edge of housekeeping, that true economy consists in buying the right thing
at the right time,--if you only pay for it as you go.

"But, my dear Mr. Carter, I don't know what the right thing is!"

Sweet heart, I knew it. And your husband knows no more than you do,--although he will pretend
to know, that he may look cross when the bills come in. Read what follows; hide the "Atlantic"
before he comes home; and you will know more than he knows on the most important point in human
life. Vainly, henceforth, will he quote Greek to you, or talk pompous nonsense about the price
of Treasury certificates, if you know at what price eggs are really cheap, and at what price
they are really dear.

Listen, and remember! Then hide the "Atlantic" away.

When I engaged in the study of Hebrew, which was at that time a "regular" at college, (for
why should I blush to own that I am in my one hundred and tenth year?) as I toiled through
the rules and exceptions in dear old Stephen Sewall's Hebrew Grammar, I ventured to ask him,
one desperately hot June day, whether he could not tell us, were it only for curiosity's sake,
which rule would come into play in every verse, and which would be of use only once or twice
in the whole Bible. "Ah, Carter," said the dear old fellow, (he taught his beloved language
with his own book,) "it is all of use,--all!" And so we had to take it all, and find out as
we could which rules would be constant servitors to us, and which occasional lackeys, hired
for special occasions. Just so, dear Hero, do you stand about your housekeeping. You wall be
fretting yourself to death to economize in each one of one hundred and seven different articles,--for
so many are you and Leander to assimilate and make your own special phosphate and carbon, as
this sweet honey-year of yours goes on. Of that fret and wear of your sweet temper, child,
there is no use at all. Listen, and you shall learn what are to be the great constants of your
expense,--what Stephen Sewall would have called the regular verbs transitive of your being,
doing, and suffering,--and how many of the one hundred and seven are only exceptional Lamed
Hhes, at which you can guess or which you can skip, if the great central movements of your
economies go bravely on.

I do not know, of course, whether Leander is fond of coffee, and whether you drink tea or no.
I can only tell you what is in our family, and assure you that ours is a model family. Such
a model is it, that Lois has just now counted up the one hundred and seven articles for me,--has
shown me that they all together cost us nine hundred and twenty-six dollars and thirty-two
cents in the year 1863, and how much each of them cost. Now our family consists,--

1. Of the baby, who is king.

2, 3. Of two nurses, who are prime-ministers, one of domestic affairs, one of private education.

4, 5. Of a cook and table-girl, who are chancellor and foreign secretary. These four make the
cabinet.

6-8. Three older children; these are in the government, but not in the cabinet.

9 and 10. Lois and I,--who pay the taxes, fight common enemies, and do what the others tell
us as well as we can.

This family, you observe, consists of six grown persons, and three children old enough to eat,
who are equivalent to a seventh. I may say, in passing, that it therefore consumes just seven
barrels of flour a year.

To feed it, as Lois has just now shown you, cost in the year 1863 nine hundred and twenty-six
dollars and thirty-two cents. That is the way we chose to live. We could have lived just as
happily on half that sum,--we could have lived just as wretchedly on ten times that sum. But,
however we lived, the proportions of our expense would not have varied much from what I am
now to teach you, dear Hero (if that really be your name).

BUTTER is the biggest expense-item of all. Of our nine hundred and twenty-six dollars and thirty-two
cents, ninety-one dollars and twenty-six cents went for butter. Remember that your butter is
one-tenth part of the whole.

Next comes flour. Our seven barrels cost us seventy dollars and eighty-three cents. We bought,
besides, six dollars and seventy-six cents' worth of bread, and six dollars and seventy-one
cents' worth of crackers,--convenient sometimes, dear Hero. So that your wheat-flour and bread
are almost a tenth of the whole.

Next comes beef, in all forms, ninety dollars and seventy-six cents; there goes another tenth.
The other meats are, mutton, forty-seven dollars and sixty-seven cents; turkeys, chickens,
etc., if you call them meat, sixty-one dollars and fifty-six cents; lamb, seventeen dollars
and fifty-three cents; veal, eleven dollars and fifty-three cents; fresh pork, one dollar and
seventy-three cents. (This must have been for some guest. Lois and I each had a grandfather
named Enoch, and have Jewish prejudices; also, fresh pork is really the most costly article
of diet, if you count in the doctor's bills. But for ham there is ten dollars and twenty-two
cents. Ham is always available, you know, Hero. For other salt pork, I recommend you to institute
a father or brother, or cousin attached to you in youth, who shall carry on a model farm in
the country, and kill for you a model corn-fed pig every year, see it salted with his own eyes,
and send to you a half-barrel of the pork for a gage d'amour. It is a much more sentimental
present than rosebuds, dearest Hero,--and it lasts longer. That is the way we do; and salt
pork, therefore, does not appear on our bills. But against such salt pork I have no Hebrew
prejudice. Try it, Hero, with paper-sliced potatoes fried for breakfast.) All other forms of
meat sum up only two dollars and twenty-three cents. And now, Hero, I will explain to you the
philosophy of meats. You see they cost you a quarter part of what you spend.

Know, then, my dear child, that the real business of the three meals a day,--of the neat luncheon
you serve on your wedding-silver for Mrs. Dubbadoe and her pretty daughter, when they drive
in from Milton to see you,--of the ice-cream you ate last night at the summer party which the
Bellinghams gave the Pinckneys,--of the hard-tack and boiled dog which dear John is now digesting
in front of Petersburg,--the real business, I say, is to supply the human frame with carbon,
hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen in organized forms. It must be in organized matter. You might
pound your wedding-diamonds for carbon, you might give water from Jordan for oxygen and hydrogen,
and the snow-flakes of the Jungfrau might serve the nitrogen for Leander's dinners, but, because
these are not organized, Leander's cheek would pale, and his teeth shake in their sockets,
and his muscles dwindle to packthreads, as William Augustus's do in the Slovenly-Peter books,
and he would die before your eyes, Hero! Yes, he would die! Do not, in your love of him, therefore,
feed him on your diamonds. Give him organized matter. Now, in doing this, you have been wise
in spending even a tenth of your substance on wheat. For wheat is almost pure food; and wheat
contains all you want,--more carbon than your diamonds, more oxygen and hydrogen than your
tears, more nitrogen than the snow-flake,--but not nitrogen enough, dear Hero.

"More nitrogen!" gasps Leander, "more nitrogen, my charmer, or I die!" This is the real meaning
of the words, when he says, "Let us have roast-beef for dinner," or when he asks you to pass
him the butter.

Although beef, then, has little more than a quarter as much food in it as wheat has, you must
have some beef, or something like it, because Leander, and you too, my rosy-cheek, must have
nitrogen as well as carbon.

I beg you not to throw the "Atlantic" away at this point, my child. Do not say that Mr. Carter
is an old fool, and that you never meant to live on vegetables. A great many people have meant
to, and have never known what was the matter with them, when the real deficiency was nitrogen.
Besides, child, though wheat is the best single feeder of all, as I have told you, because
in its gluten it has so much nitrogen, this is to be said of all vegetables, that, so far as
we live on them, we exist slowly; to a certain extent we have to ruminate as the cows do, and
not as men and women should ruminate, and all animal or functional life goes more slowly on.
Now, Hero, you and Leander both have to lead a rapid life. Most people do in the autumn of
1864. So give him meat, dear Hero, as above.

As for my being an old fool, my dear, I have said I am one hundred and nine, which is older
than old Mr. Waldo was, older than everybody except old Parr. And after forty, everybody is
a fool--or a physician.

Let us return, then, to our mutton,--always a good thing to return to, especially if the plates
are hot, as yours, Hero, always will be. For mutton, besides such water as you can dry out
of it, contains twenty-nine per cent. of food,--for meat, a high percentage.

Let us see where we are.

Our butter costs us one-tenth.

Our flour and wheat-bread cost us almost one-tenth.

Our beef costs us one-tenth.

Our other meats cost us a tenth and a half of what we spend for eating and drinking.

"Where in the world does the rest go, Mr. Carter? Here is not half. But I could certainly live
very well on these things."

Angel, you could. But if you lived wholly on these, you would want more of them. You see we
have said nothing of coffee and tea,--the princes or princesses of food,--without which civilized
man cannot renew his brains. In such years as these, Hero, when our brave soldiers must have
coffee or we can have no victories, coffee costs me and Lois fifty dollars,--cheap at that,--for,
without it, did we drink dandelion like the cows, or chiccory like the asses, how were these
brains renewed?

"Tea and coffee are the same thing," says Liebig; at least, he says that Theine, the base of
tea, and Caffeine, the base of coffee, are the same. What I know is, that, when coffee costs
fifty dollars a year, tea costs thirty dollars and eighty-nine cents.

For tea and coffee, Hero, allow about another tenth,--the cocoa and cream will bring it up to that.

Our sugar cost us fifty-four dollars and twenty-two cents; our milk fifty dollars and sixty-two;
our cream ten dollars seventy-seven.

"Buy your cream separate," says Hero, "if you have as good a milkman as Mr. Whittemore."

You have not as many babies as we, Hero. When you have, you will not grudge the milk or the
sugar. Lots of nourishment in sugar! Sugar and milk are another tenth.

I do not know if you are a Catholic, Hero; but I guess your kitchen is; and so I am pretty
sure that you will eat fish Fridays. I know you are a person of sense, so I know you will often
delight Leander, as he rises from the day's swim which, for your sake, Hero, he takes across
the cold Hellespont of life,--(all men are Leanders, and all women should be their Heros, holding
high love-torches for them,)--as he rises, I say, with "a sound of wateriness," I know you
will often delight him with oysters, scalloped, fried, or plain, as entremets to flank his
dinner-table. For fish count two per cent., for oysters two more, for eggs three or four, and
for that stupid compound of starch which some men call "indispensable," and all men call "potato,"
count three or four more. My advice is, that, when potatoes are dear, you skip them. Rice-croquets
are better and cheaper. There goes another tenth.

Tea and coffee, etc., one-tenth.

Sugar and milk, one-tenth.

Fish, eggs, potatoes, etc., one-tenth.

Thus is it, Hero, that three-quarters of what you eat will be spent for your bread and butter,
your meat, fish, eggs, and potatoes, your coffee, tea, milk, and sugar,--for twenty-one articles
on a list of one hundred and seven. Fresh vegetables, besides those named, will take one-fifth
of what is left: say five per cent. of the whole expense. The doctor will order porter or wine,
when your back aches, or when Leander looks thin. Have nothing to do with them till he does
order them, but reserve another five per cent. for them. The rest, Hero, it is mace, it is
yeast, it is vinegar, pepper, and mustard, it is sardines, it is lobster, it is the unconsidered
world of trifles which make up the visible difference between the table of high civilization
and that of the Abyssinian or the Blackfoot Indian. Let us hope it is not much cream-of-tartar
or saleratus. It is grits and grapes, it is lard and lemons, it is maple-sugar and melons,
it is nuts and nutmeg, or any other alliteration that you fancy.

Now, pretty one, I can see you smile, and I can hear you say,--"Dear old Mr. Carter, I am very
much obliged to you. I begin to see my way a little more clearly." Of course you do, child.
You begin to see that the most desperate economy in lemons will not make you and Leander rich,
but that you must make up your mind at the start about beef and about butter. Hear, then, my
parting whisper.

Disregard the traditions of economy. What is cheap to-day is dear to-morrow. Do not make a
bill-of-fare, and, because everything on it tastes very badly, think it is cheap. Salt codfish
is cheap sometimes, and sometimes very dear. Venison is often an extravagance; but, of a winter
when the sleighing is good, and when the hunters have not gone South, it is the cheapest food
for you. Eggs are dear, if they tempt you to cakes that you do not like. But no eggs can be
sent to our brave army, so, if you do choose to make a bargain with your Aunt Eunice at Naugatuck
Neck to send you four dozen by express once a week, they will be, perhaps, the cheapest food
you can buy. What you want, my child, is variety. However cheaply you live, secure four things:
First, a change of fare from day to day, so as to have a good appetite; Second, simplicity,
each day, in the table, so as to lose but little in chips; Third, fitness of things there,
as hot plates for your mutton and cold ones for your butter, so that what you have may be of
the best; and, first, second, third, and last, love between you and Leander. This last sauce,
says Solomon, answers even for herbs. And you know the Emperors Augustus and Nebuchadnezzar
both had to live on herbs,--I am afraid, because love had been wanting in both cases. If you
have a stalled ox, you will need the same sauces,--much more, unless it is better dressed than
the only one I ever saw, which was at Warwick, when Cheron and I were going to Stratford-on-Avon.
It was not attractive. You will need three of these four things, if you are rich. Rich or poor,
buy in as large quantities as you can. Rich or poor, pay cash. Rich or poor, do not try to
do without carbon or nitrogen. Rich or poor, vary steadily the bills-of-fare. Now the minimum
of what you can support life upon, at this moment, is easily told. Jeff Davis makes the calculation
for you. It is quarter of a pound of salt pork a day, with four Graham hard-tack. That is what
each of his soldiers is eating; and though they are not stout, they are wiry fellows, and fight
well. The maximum you can find by lodging at the Brevoort, at New York,--where, when I last
went to the front, I stopped an hour on the way, and, though I had no meals, paid two dollars
and eighty cents for washing my face in another man's bedroom. A year of Jeff Davis's diet
would cost you and Leander, if you bought in large quantities, sixty dollars. A year at Rye
Beach just now would cost you two or three thousand dollars. Choose your dinner from either
bill; vary it, by all the gradations between. But remember, child, as you would cheer Leander
after his swim, and keep within your allowance, remember that what was dear yesterday may be
cheap to-day,--remember to vary the repast, therefore, from Monday round to Saturday; eschew
the corner-shop, and buy as large stores as Leander will let you; and always keep near at hand
an unexhausted supply of Solomon's condiment.

FOOTNOTES:

[35]

    "All hail, thou Connecticut, who forever hast ran,
    Bringing shad to South Hadley, and pleasure to man!"

BEFORE VICKSBURG.

MAY 19, 1863.

    While Sherman stood beneath the hottest fire
      That from the lines of Vicksburg gleamed,
    And bomb-shells tumbled in their smoky gyre,
      And grape-shot hissed, and case-shot screamed;
          Back from the front there came,
          Weeping and sorely lame,
      The merest child, the youngest face
    Man ever saw in such a fearful place.

    Stifling his tears, he limped his chief to meet;
      But when he paused, and tottering stood,
    Around the circle of his little feet
      There spread a pool of bright, young blood.
          Shocked at his doleful case,
          Sherman cried, "Halt! front face!
      Who are you? Speak, my gallant boy!"
    "A drummer, Sir:--Fifty-Fifth Illinois."

    "Are you not hit?" "That's nothing. Only send
      Some cartridges: our men are out;
    And the foe press us." "But, my little friend"--
      "Don't mind me! Did you hear that shout?
          What if our men be driven?
          Oh, for the love of Heaven,
      Send to my Colonel, General dear!"
    "But you?" "Oh, I shall easily find the rear."

    "I'll see to that," cried Sherman; and a drop
      Angels might envy dimmed his eye,
    As the boy, toiling towards the hill's hard top,
      Turned round, and with his shrill child's cry
          Shouted, "Oh, don't forget!
          We'll win the battle yet!
      But let our soldiers have some more,
    More cartridges, Sir,--calibre fifty-four!"

OUR VISIT TO RICHMOND.

WHY WE WENT THERE.

Why my companion, the Rev. Dr. Jaquess, Colonel of the Seventy-Third Regiment of Illinois Volunteers,
recently went to Richmond, and the circumstances attending his previous visit within the Rebel
lines,--when he wore his uniform, and mixed openly with scores of leading Confederates,--I
shall shortly make known to the public in a volume called "Down in Tennessee." It may now,
however, be asked why I, a "civil" individual, and not in the pay of Government, became his
travelling-companion, and, at a time when all the world was rushing North to the mountains
and the watering-places, journeyed South for a conference with the arch-Rebel, in the hot and
dangerous latitude of Virginia.

Did it never occur to you, reader, when you have undertaken to account for some of the simplest
of your own actions, how many good reasons have arisen in your mind, every one of which has
justified you in concluding that you were of "sound and disposing understanding"? So, now,
in looking inward for the why and the wherefore which I know will be demanded of me at the
threshold of this article, I find half a dozen reasons for my visit to Richmond, any one of
which ought to prove that I am a sensible man, altogether too sensible to go on so long a journey,
in the heat of midsummer, for the mere pleasure of the thing. Some of these reasons I will
enumerate.

First: Very many honest people at the North sincerely believe that the revolted States will
return to the Union, if assured of protection to their peculiar institution. The Government
having declared that no State shall be readmitted which has not first abolished Slavery, these
people hold it responsible for the continuance of the war. It is, therefore, important to know
whether the Rebel States will or will not return, if allowed to retain Slavery. Mr. Jefferson
Davis could, undoubtedly, answer that question; and that may have been a reason why I went
to see him.

Second: On the second of July last, C. C. Clay, of Alabama, J. P. Holcombe, of Virginia, and
G. N. Sanders, of nowhere in particular, appeared at Niagara Falls, and publicly announced
that they were there to confer with the Democratic leaders in reference to the Chicago nomination.
Very soon thereafter, a few friends of the Administration received intimations from those gentlemen
that they were Commissioners from the Rebel Government, with authority to negotiate preliminaries
of peace on something like the following basis, namely: A restoration of the Union as it was;
all negroes actually freed by the war to be declared free, and all negroes not actually freed
by the war to be declared slaves.

These overtures were not considered sincere. They seemed concocted to embarrass the Government,
to throw upon it the odium of continuing the war, and thus to secure the triumph of the peace-traitors
at the November election. The scheme, if well managed, threatened to be dangerous, by uniting
the Peace-men, the Copperheads, and such of the Republicans as love peace better than principle,
in one opposition, willing to make a peace that would be inconsistent with the safety and dignity
of the country. It was, therefore, important to discover--what was then in doubt--whether the
Rebel envoys really had, or had not, any official authority.

Within fifteen days of the appearance of these "Peace Commissioners," Jefferson Davis had said
to an eminent Secession divine, who, late in June, came through the Union lines by the Maryland
back-door, that he would make peace on no other terms than a recognition of Southern Independence.
(He might, however, agree to two governments, bound together by a league offensive and defensive,--for
all external purposes one, for all internal purposes two; but he would agree to nothing better.)

There was reason to consider this information trustworthy, and to believe Mr. Davis (who was
supposed to be a clear-minded man) altogether ignorant of the doings of his Niagara satellites.
If this were true, and were proven to be true,--if the great Rebel should reiterate this declaration
in the presence of a trustworthy witness, at the very time when the small Rebels were opening
their Quaker guns on the country,--would not the Niagara negotiators be stripped of their false
colors, and their low schemes be exposed to the scorn of all honest men, North and South?

I may have thought so; and that may have been another reason why I went to Richmond.

Third: I had been acquainted with Colonel Jaquess's peace-movements from their inception. Early
in June last he wrote me from a battle-field in Georgia, announcing his intention of again
visiting the Rebels, and asking an interview with me at a designated place. We met, and went
to Washington together. Arriving there, I became aware that obstacles were in the way of his
further progress. Those obstacles could be removed by my accompanying him; and that, to those
who know the man and his "mission," which is to preach peace on earth and good-will among men,
would seem a very good reason why I went to Richmond.

Fourth,--and this to very many may appear as potent as any of the preceding reasons,--I had
in my boyhood a strange fancy for church-belfries and liberty-poles. This fancy led me, in
school-vacations, to perch my small self for hours on the cross-beams in the old belfry, and
to climb to the very top of the tall pole which still surmounts the little village-green. In
my youth, this feeling was simply a spirit of adventure; but as I grew older it deepened into
a reverence for what those old bells said, and a love for the principle of which that old liberty-pole
is now only a crumbling symbol.

Had not events shown that Jeff. Davis had never seen that old liberty-pole, and never heard
the chimes which still ring out from that old belfry? Who knew, in these days when every wood-sawyer
has a "mission," but I had a "mission," and it was to tell the Rebel President that Northern
liberty-poles still stand for Freedom, and that Northern church-bells still peal out, "Liberty
throughout the land, to all the inhabitants thereof"?

If that was my mission, will anybody blame me for fanning Mr. Davis with a "blast" of cool
Northern "wind" in this hot weather?

But enough of mystification. The straightforward reader wants a straightforward reason, and
he shall have it.

We went to Richmond because we hoped to pave the way for negotiations that would result in peace.

If we should succeed, the consciousness of having served the country would, we thought, pay
our expenses. If we should fail, but return safely, we might still serve the country by making
public the cause of our failure. If we should fail, and not return safely, but be shot or hanged
as spies,--as we might be, for we could have no protection from our Government, and no safe-conduct
from the Rebels,--two lives would be added to the thousands already sacrificed to this Rebellion,
but they would as effectually serve the country as if lost on the battle-field.

These are the reasons, and the only reasons, why we went to Richmond.

HOW WE WENT THERE.

We went there in an ambulance, and we went together,--the Colonel and I; and though two men
were never more unlike, we worked together like two brothers, or like two halves of a pair
of shears. That we got in was owing, perhaps, to me; that we got out was due altogether to
him; and a man more cool, more brave, more self-reliant, and more self-devoted than that quiet
"Western parson" it never was my fortune to encounter.

When the far-away Boston bells were sounding nine, on the morning of Saturday, the sixteenth
of July, we took our glorious Massachusetts General by the hand, and said to him,--

"Good bye. If you do not see us within ten days, you will know we have 'gone up.'"

"If I do not see you within that time," he replied, "I'll demand you; and if they don't produce
you, body and soul, I'll take two for one,--better men than you are,--and hang them higher
than Haman. My hand on that. Good bye."

At three o'clock on the afternoon of the same day, mounted on two raw-boned relics of Sheridan's
great raid, and armed with a letter to Jeff. Davis, a white cambric handkerchief tied to a
short stick, and an honest face,--this last was the Colonel's,--we rode up to the Rebel lines.
A ragged, yellow-faced boy, with a carbine in one hand, and another white handkerchief tied
to another short stick in the other, came out to meet us.

"Can you tell us, my man, where to find Judge Ould, the Exchange Commissioner?"

"Yas. Him and t'other 'Change officers is over ter the plantation beyont Miss Grover's. Ye'll
know it by its hevin' nary door nur winder [the mansion, he meant]. They's all busted in. Foller
the bridle-path through the timber, and keep your rag a-flyin', fur our boys is thicker 'n
huckelberries in them woods, and they mought pop ye, ef they didn't seed it."

Thanking him, we turned our horses into the "timber," and, galloping rapidly on, soon came
in sight of the deserted plantation. Lolling on the grass, in the shade of the windowless mansion,
we found the Confederate officials. They rose as we approached; and one of us said to the Judge,--a
courteous, middle-aged gentleman, in a Panama hat, and a suit of spotless white drillings,--

"We are late, but it's your fault. Your people fired at us down the river, and we had to turn
back and come overland."

"You don't suppose they saw your flag?"

"No. It was hidden by the trees; but a shot came uncomfortably near us. It struck the water,
and ricochetted not three yards off. A little nearer, and it would have shortened me by a head,
and the Colonel by two feet."

"That would have been a sad thing for you; but a miss, you know, is as good as a mile," said
the Judge, evidently enjoying the "joke."

"We hear Grant was in the boat that followed yours, and was struck while at dinner," remarked
Captain Hatch, the Judge's Adjutant,--a gentleman, and about the best-looking man in the Confederacy.

"Indeed! Do you believe it?"

"I don't know, of course"; and his looks asked for an answer. We gave none, for all such information
is contraband. We might have told him that Grant, Butler, and Foster examined their position
from Mrs. Grover's house,--about four hundred yards distant,--two hours after the Rebel cannon-ball
danced a break-down on the Lieutenant-General's dinner-table.

We were then introduced to the other officials,--Major Henniken of the War Department, a young
man formerly of New York, but now scorning the imputation of being a Yankee, and Mr. Charles
Javins, of the Provost-Guard of Richmond. This latter individual was our shadow in Dixie. He
was of medium height, stoutly built, with a short, thick neck, and arms and shoulders denoting
great strength. He looked a natural-born jailer, and much such a character as a timid man would
not care to encounter, except at long range of a rifle warranted to five twenty shots a minute,
and to hit every time.

To give us a moonlight view of the Richmond fortifications, the Judge proposed to start after
sundown; and as it wanted some hours of that time, we seated ourselves on the ground, and entered
into conversation. The treatment of our prisoners, the status of black troops, and non-combatants,
and all the questions which have led to the suspension of exchanges, had been good-naturedly
discussed, when the Captain, looking up from one of the Northern papers we had brought him, said,--

"Do you know, it mortifies me that you don't hate us as we hate you? You kill us as Agassiz
kills a fly,--because you love us."

"Of course we do. The North is being crucified for love of the South."

"If you love us so, why don't you let us go?" asked the Judge, rather curtly.

"For that very reason,--because we love you. If we let you go, with slavery, and your notions
of 'empire,' you'd run straight to barbarism and the Devil."

"We'd take the risk of that. But let me tell you, if you are going to Mr. Davis with any such
ideas, you might as well turn back at once. He can make peace on no other basis than Independence.
Recognition must be the beginning, middle, and ending of all negotiations. Our people will
accept peace on no other terms."

"I think you are wrong there," said the Colonel. "When I was here a year ago, I met many of
your leading men, and they all assured me they wanted peace and reunion, even at the sacrifice
of slavery. Within a week, a man you venerate and love has met me at Baltimore, and besought
me to come here, and offer Mr. Davis peace on such conditions."

"That may be. Some of our old men, who are weak in the knees, may want peace on any terms;
but the Southern people will not have it without Independence. Mr. Davis knows them, and you
will find he will insist upon that. Concede that, and we'll not quarrel about minor matters."

"We'll not quarrel at all. But it's sundown, and time we were 'on to Richmond.'"

"That's the 'Tribune' cry," said the Captain, rising; "and I hurrah for the 'Tribune,' for
it's honest, and--I want my supper."

We all laughed, and the Judge ordered the horses. As we were about to start, I said to him,--

"You've forgotten our parole."

"Oh, never mind that. We'll attend to that at Richmond."

Stepping into his carriage, and unfurling the flag of truce, he then led the way, by a "short
cut," across the cornfield which divided the mansion from the high-road. We followed in an
ambulance drawn by a pair of mules, our shadow--Mr. Javins--sitting between us and the twilight,
and Jack, a "likely darky," almost the sole survivor of his master's twelve hundred slaves,
("De ress all stole, Massa,--stole by you Yankees,") occupying the front-seat, and with a stout
whip "working our passage" to Richmond.

Much that was amusing and interesting occurred during our three-hours' journey, but regard
for our word forbids my relating it. Suffice it to say, we saw the "frowning fortifications,"
we "flanked" the "invincible army," and, at ten o'clock that night, planted our flag (against
a lamp-post) in the very heart of the hostile city. As we alighted at the doorway of the Spotswood
Hotel, the Judge said to the Colonel,--

"Button your outside-coat up closely. Your uniform must not be seen here."

The Colonel did as he was bidden; and, without stopping to register our names at the office,
we followed the Judge and the Captain up to No. 60. It was a large, square room in the fourth
story, with an unswept, ragged carpet, and bare, white walls, smeared with soot and tobacco-juice.
Several chairs, a marble-top table, and a pine wash-stand and clothes-press straggled about
the floor, and in the corners were three beds, garnished with tattered pillow-cases, and covered
with white counterpanes, grown gray with longing for soapsuds and a wash-tub. The plainer and
humbler of these beds was designed for the burly Mr. Javins; the others had been made ready
for the extraordinary envoys (not envoys extraordinary) who, in defiance of all precedent and
the "law of nations," had just then "taken Richmond."

A single gas-jet was burning over the mantel-piece, and above it I saw a "writing on the wall"
which implied that Jane Jackson had run up a washing-score of fifty dollars!

I was congratulating myself on not having to pay that woman's laundry-bills, when the Judge said,--

"You want supper. What shall we order?"

"A slice of hot corn-bread would make me the happiest man in Richmond."

The Captain thereupon left the room, and shortly returning, remarked,--

"The landlord swears you're from Georgia. He says none but a Georgian would call for corn-bread
at this time of night."

On that hint we acted, and when our sooty attendant came in with the supper-things, we discussed
Georgia mines, Georgia banks, and Georgia mosquitoes, in a way that showed we had been bitten
by all of them. In half an hour it was noised all about the hotel that the two gentlemen the
Confederacy was taking such excellent care of were from Georgia.

The meal ended, and a quiet smoke over, our entertainers rose to go. As the Judge bade us good-night,
he said to us,--

"In the morning you had better address a note to Mr. Benjamin, asking the interview with the
President. I will call at ten o'clock, and take it to him."

"Very well. But will Mr. Davis see us on Sunday?"

"Oh, that will make no difference."

WHAT WE DID THERE.

The next morning, after breakfast, which we took in our room with Mr. Javins, we indited a
note--of which the following is a copy--to the Confederate Secretary of State.

    "Spotswood House, Richmond, Va.

                    "July 17th, 1864.

    "Hon. J. P. Benjamin,

        "Secretary of State, etc.

     "DEAR SIR,--The undersigned respectfully solicit an interview
     with President Davis.

     "They visit Richmond only as private citizens, and have no
     official character or authority; but they are acquainted with
     the views of the United States Government, and with the
     sentiments of the Northern people relative to an adjustment of
     the differences existing between the North and the South, and
     earnestly hope that a free interchange of views between
     President Davis and themselves may open the way to such
     official negotiations as will result in restoring PEACE to
     the two sections of our distracted country.

     "They, therefore, ask an interview with the President, and
     awaiting your reply, are

        "Truly and respectfully yours."

This was signed by both of us; and when the Judge called, as he had appointed, we sent it--together
with a commendatory letter I had received, on setting out, from a near relative of Mr. Davis--to
the Rebel Secretary. In half an hour Judge Ould returned, saying,--"Mr. Benjamin sends you
his compliments, and will be happy to see you at the State Department."

We found the Secretary--a short, plump, oily little man in black, with a keen black eye, a
Jew face, a yellow skin, curly black hair, closely trimmed black whiskers, and a ponderous
gold watch-chain--in the northwest room of the "United States" Custom-House. Over the door
of this room were the words, "State Department," and round its walls were hung a few maps and
battle-plans. In one corner was a tier of shelves filled with books,--among which I noticed
Headley's "History," Lossing's "Pictorial," Parton's "Butler," Greeley's "American Conflict,"
a complete set of the "Rebellion Record," and a dozen numbers and several bound volumes of
the "Atlantic Monthly,"--and in the centre of the apartment was a black-walnut table, covered
with green cloth, and filled with a multitude of "state-papers." At this table sat the Secretary.
He rose as we entered, and, as Judge Ould introduced us, took our hands, and said,--

"I am glad, very glad, to meet you, Gentlemen. I have read your note, and"--bowing to me--"the
open letter you bring from ----. Your errand commands my respect and sympathy. Pray be seated."

As we took the proffered seats, the Colonel, drawing off his "duster," and displaying his uniform,
said,--

"We thank you for this cordial reception, Mr. Benjamin. We trust you will be as glad to hear
us as you are to see us."

"No doubt I shall be, for you come to talk of peace. Peace is what we all want."

"It is, indeed; and for that reason we are here to see Mr. Davis. Can we see him, Sir?"

"Do you bring any overtures to him from your Government?"

"No, Sir. We bring no overtures and have no authority from our Government. We state that in
our note. We would be glad, however, to know what terms will be acceptable to Mr. Davis. If
they at all harmonize with Mr. Lincoln's views, we will report them to him, and so open the
door for official negotiations."

"Are you acquainted with Mr. Lincoln's views?"

"One of us is, fully."

"Did Mr. Lincoln, in any way, authorize you to come here?"

"No, Sir. We came with his pass, but not by his request. We say, distinctly, we have no official,
or unofficial, authority. He will be at church this afternoon; so, suppose you call here at
nine this evening. If anything should occur in the meantime to prevent his seeing you, I will
let you know through Judge Ould."

Throughout this interview the manner of the Secretary was cordial; but with this cordiality
was a strange constraint and diffidence, almost amounting to timidity, which struck both my
companion and myself. Contrasting his manner with the quiet dignity of the Colonel, I almost
fancied our positions reversed,--that, instead of our being in his power, the Secretary was
in ours, and momently expecting to hear some unwelcome sentence from our lips. There is something,
after all, in moral power. Mr. Benjamin does not possess it, nor is he a great man. He has
a keen, shrewd, ready intellect, but not the stamina to originate, or even to execute, any
great good or great wickedness.

After a day spent in our room, conversing with the Judge, or watching the passers-by in the
street,--I should like to tell who they were and how they looked, but such information is just
now contraband,--we called again, at nine o'clock, at the State Department.

Mr. Benjamin occupied his previous seat at the table, and at his right sat a spare, thin-featured
man, with iron-gray hair and beard, and a clear, gray eye full of life and vigor. He had a
broad, massive forehead, and a mouth and chin denoting great energy and strength of will. His
face was emaciated, and much wrinkled, but his features were good, especially his eyes,--though
one of them bore a scar, apparently made by some sharp instrument. He wore a suit of grayish-brown,
evidently of foreign manufacture, and, as he rose, I saw that he was about five feet ten inches
high, with a slight stoop in the shoulders. His manners were simple, easy, and quite fascinating:
and he threw an indescribable charm into his voice, as he extended his hand, and said to us,--

"I am glad to see you, Gentlemen. You are very welcome to Richmond."

And this was the man who was President of the United States under Franklin Pierce, and who
is now the heart, soul, and brains of the Southern Confederacy!

His manner put me entirely at my ease,--the Colonel would be at his, if he stood before Cæsar,--and
I replied,--

"We thank you, Mr. Davis. It is not often you meet men of our clothes, and our principles,
in Richmond."

"Not often,--not so often as I could wish; and I trust your coming may lead to a more frequent
and a more friendly intercourse between the North and the South."

"We sincerely hope it may."

"Mr. Benjamin tells me you have asked to see me, to"----

And he paused, as if desiring we should finish the sentence. The Colonel replied,--

"Yes, Sir. We have asked this interview in the hope that you may suggest some way by which
this war can be stopped. Our people want peace,--your people do, and your Congress has recently
said that you do. We have come to ask how it can be brought about."

"In a very simple way. Withdraw your armies from our territory, and peace will come of itself.
We do not seek to subjugate you. We are not waging an offensive war, except so far as it is
offensive-defensive,--that is, so far as we are forced to invade you to prevent your invading
us. Let us alone, and peace will come at once."

"But we cannot let you alone so long as you repudiate the Union. That is the one thing the
Northern people will not surrender."

"I know. You would deny to us what you exact for yourselves,--the right of self-government."

"No, Sir," I remarked. "We would deny you no natural right. But we think Union essential to
peace; and, Mr. Davis, could two people, with the same language, separated by only an imaginary
line, live at peace with each other? Would not disputes constantly arise, and cause almost
constant war between them?"

"Undoubtedly,--with this generation. You have sown such bitterness at the South, you have put
such an ocean of blood between the two sections, that I despair of seeing any harmony in my
time. Our children may forget this war, but we cannot."

"I think the bitterness you speak of, Sir," said the Colonel, "does not really exist. We meet
and talk here as friends; our soldiers meet and fraternize with each other; and I feel sure,
that, if the Union were restored, a more friendly feeling would arise between us than has ever
existed. The war has made us know and respect each other better than before. This is the view
of very many Southern men; I have had it from many of them,--your leading citizens."

"They are mistaken," replied Mr. Davis. "They do not understand Southern sentiment. How can
we feel anything but bitterness towards men who deny us our rights? If you enter my house and
drive me out of it, am I not your natural enemy?"

"You put the case too strongly. But we cannot fight forever; the war must end at some time;
we must finally agree upon something; can we not agree now, and stop this frightful carnage?
We are both Christian men, Mr. Davis. Can you, as a Christian man, leave untried any means
that may lead to peace?"

"No, I cannot.

"And there are, at least, four and a half millions of us left; so you see you have a work before
you," said Mr. Benjamin, with a decided sneer.

"We have no wish to exterminate you," answered the Colonel. "I believe what I have said,--that
there is no bitterness between the Northern and Southern people. The North, I know, loves the
South. When peace comes, it will pour money and means into your hands to repair the waste caused
by the war; and it would now welcome you back, and forgive you all the loss and bloodshed you
have caused. But we must crush your armies, and exterminate your Government. And is not that
already nearly done? You are wholly without money, and at the end of your resources. Grant
has shut you up in Richmond. Sherman is before Atlanta. Had you not, then, better accept honorable
terms while you can retain your prestige, and save the pride of the Southern people?"

Mr. Davis smiled.

"I respect your earnestness, Colonel, but you do not seem to understand the situation. We are
not exactly shut up in Richmond. If your papers tell the truth, it is your capital that is
in danger, not ours. Some weeks ago, Grant crossed the Rapidan to whip Lee, and take Richmond.
Lee drove him in the first battle, and then Grant executed what your people call a 'brilliant
flank-movement,' and fought Lee again. Lee drove him a second time, and then Grant made another
'flank-movement'; and so they kept on,--Lee whipping, and Grant flanking,--until Grant got
where he is now. And what is the net result? Grant has lost seventy-five or eighty thousand
men,--more than Lee had at the outset,--and is no nearer taking Richmond than at first; and
Lee, whose front has never been broken, holds him completely in check, and has men enough to
spare to invade Maryland, and threaten Washington! Sherman, to be sure, is before Atlanta;
but suppose he is, and suppose he takes it? You know, that, the farther he goes from his base
of supplies, the weaker he grows, and the more disastrous defeat will be to him. And defeat
may come. So, in a military view, I should certainly say our position was better than yours.

"As to money: we are richer than you are. You smile; but admit that our paper is worth nothing,--it
answers as a circulating-medium; and we hold it all ourselves. If every dollar of it were lost,
we should, as we have no foreign debt, be none the poorer. But it is worth something; it has
the solid basis of a large cotton-crop, while yours rests on nothing, and you owe all the world.
As to resources: we do not lack for arms or ammunition, and we have still a wide territory
from which to gather supplies. So, you see, we are not in extremities. But if we were,--if
we were without money, without food, without weapons,--if our whole country were devastated,
and our armies crushed and disbanded,--could we, without giving up our manhood, give up our
right to govern ourselves? Would you not rather die, and feel yourself a man, than live, and
be subject to a foreign power?"

"From your stand-point there is force in what you say," replied the Colonel. "But we did not
come here to argue with you, Mr. Davis. We came, hoping to find some honorable way to peace;
and I am grieved to hear you say what you do. When I have seen your young men dying on the
battle-field, and your old men, women, and children starving in their homes, I have felt I
could risk my life to save them. For that reason I am here; and I am grieved, grieved, that
there is no hope."

"I know your motives, Colonel Jaquess, and I honor you for them; but what can I do more than
I am doing? I would give my poor life, gladly, if it would bring peace and good-will to the
two countries; but it would not. It is with your own people you should labor. It is they who
desolate our homes, burn our wheat-fields, break the wheels of wagons carrying away our women
and children, and destroy supplies meant for our sick and wounded. At your door lies all the
misery and the crime of this war,--and it is a fearful, fearful account."

"Not all of it, Mr. Davis. I admit a fearful account, but it is not all at our door. The passions
of both sides are aroused. Unarmed men are hanged, prisoners are shot down in cold blood, by
yourselves. Elements of barbarism are entering the war on both sides, that should make us--you
and me, as Christian men--shudder to think of. In God's name, then, let us stop it. Let us
do something, concede something, to bring about peace. You cannot expect, with only four and
a half millions, as Mr. Benjamin says you have, to hold out forever against twenty millions."

Again Mr. Davis smiled.

"Do you suppose there are twenty millions at the North determined to crush us?"

"I do,--to crush your government. A small number of our people, a very small number, are your
friends,--Secessionists. The rest differ about measures and candidates, but are united in the
determination to sustain the Union. Whoever is elected in November, he must be committed to
a vigorous prosecution of the war."

Mr. Davis still looking incredulous, I remarked,--

"It is so, Sir. Whoever tells you otherwise deceives you. I think I know Northern sentiment,
and I assure you it is so. You know we have a system of lyceum-lecturing in our large towns.
At the close of these lectures, it is the custom of the people to come upon the platform and
talk with the lecturer. This gives him an excellent opportunity of learning public sentiment.
Last winter I lectured before nearly a hundred of such associations, all over the North,--from
Dubuque to Bangor,--and I took pains to ascertain the feeling of the people. I found a unanimous
determination to crush the Rebellion and save the Union at every sacrifice. The majority are
in favor of Mr. Lincoln, and nearly all of those opposed to him are opposed to him because
they think he does not fight you with enough vigor. The radical Republicans, who go for slave-suffrage
and thorough confiscation, are those who will defeat him, if he is defeated. But if he is defeated
before the people, the House will elect a worse man,--I mean, worse for you. It is more radical
than he is,--you can see that from Mr. Ashley's Reconstruction Bill,--and the people are more
radical than the House. Mr. Lincoln, I know, is about to call out five hundred thousand more
men, and I can't see how you can resist much longer; but if you do, you will only deepen the
radical feeling of the Northern people. They will now give you fair, honorable, generous terms;
but let them suffer much more, let there be a dead man in every house, as there is now in every
village, and they will give you no terms,--they will insist on hanging every Rebel south of
----. Pardon my terms. I mean no offence."

"You give no offence," he replied, smiling very, pleasantly. "I wouldn't have you pick your
words. This is a frank, free talk, and I like you the better for saying what you think. Go on."

"I was merely going to say, that, let the Northern people once really feel the war,--they do
not feel it yet,--and they will insist on hanging every one of your leaders."

"Well, admitting all you say, I can't see how it affects our position. There are some things
worse than hanging or extermination. We reckon giving up the right of self-government one of
those things."

"By self-government you mean disunion,--Southern Independence?"

"Yes."

"And slavery, you say, is no longer an element in the contest."

"No, it is not, it never was an essential element. It was only a means of bringing other conflicting
elements to an earlier culmination. It fired the musket which was already capped and loaded.
There are essential differences between the North and the South that will, however this war
may end, make them two nations."

"You ask me to say what I think. Will you allow me to say that I know the South pretty well,
and never observed those differences?"

"Then you have not used your eyes. My sight is poorer than yours, but I have seen them for years."

The laugh was upon me, and Mr. Benjamin enjoyed it.

"Well, Sir, be that as it may, if I understand you, the dispute between your government and
ours is narrowed down to this: Union or Disunion."

"Yes; or to put it in other words: Independence or Subjugation."

"Then the two governments are irreconcilably apart. They have no alternative but to fight it
out. But it is not so with the people. They are tired of fighting, and want peace; and as they
bear all the burden and suffering of the war, is it not right they should have peace, and have
it on such terms as they like?"

"I don't understand you. Be a little more explicit."

"Well, suppose the two governments should agree to something like this: To go to the people
with two propositions: say, Peace, with Disunion and Southern Independence, as your proposition,--and
Peace, with Union, Emancipation, No Confiscation, and Universal Amnesty, as ours. Let the citizens
of all the United States (as they existed before the war) vote 'Yes,' or 'No,' on these two
propositions, at a special election within sixty days. If a majority votes Disunion, our government
to be bound by it, and to let you go in peace. If a majority votes Union, yours to be bound
by it, and to stay in peace. The two governments can contract in this way, and the people,
though constitutionally unable to decide on peace or war, can elect which of the two propositions
shall govern their rulers. Let Lee and Grant, meanwhile, agree to an armistice. This would
sheathe the sword; and if once sheathed, it would never again be drawn by this generation."

"The plan is altogether impracticable.

"But three-fourths of the States can amend the Constitution. Let it be done in that way,--in
any way, so that it be done by the people. I am not a statesman or a politician, and I do not
know just how such a plan could be carried out; but you get the idea,--that the PEOPLE shall
decide the question."

"That the majority shall decide it, you mean. We seceded to rid ourselves of the rule of the
majority, and this would subject us to it again."

"But the majority must rule finally, either with bullets or ballots."

"I am not so sure of that. Neither current events nor history shows that the majority rules,
or ever did rule. The contrary, I think, is true. Why, Sir, the man who should go before the
Southern people with such a proposition, with any proposition which implied that the North
was to have a voice in determining the domestic relations of the South, could not live here
a day. He would be hanged to the first tree, without judge or jury."

"Allow me to doubt that. I think it more likely he would be hanged, if he let the Southern
people know the majority couldn't rule," I replied, smiling.

"I have no fear of that," rejoined Mr. Davis, also smiling most good-humoredly. "I give you
leave to proclaim it from every house-top in the South."

"But, seriously, Sir, you let the majority rule in a single State; why not let it rule in the
whole country?"

"Because the States are independent and sovereign. The country is not. It is only a confederation
of States; or rather it was: it is now two confederations."

"Then we are not a people,--we are only a political partnership?"

"That is all."

"Your very name, Sir, 'United States,' implies that," said Mr. Benjamin. "But, tell me, are
the terms you have named--Emancipation, No Confiscation, and Universal Amnesty--the terms which
Mr. Lincoln authorized you to offer us?"

"No, Sir, Mr. Lincoln did not authorize me to offer you any terms. But I think both he and
the Northern people, for the sake of peace, would assent to some such conditions."

"They are very generous," replied Mr. Davis, for the first time during the interview showing
some angry feeling. "But Amnesty, Sir, applies to criminals. We have committed no crime. Confiscation
is of no account, unless you can enforce it. And Emancipation! I was of some use to them; they
never were of any to me. We love the old flag, and that must be our apology for intruding upon
you at all."

"You have not intruded upon me," he replied, resuming his usual manner. "I am glad to have
met you, both. I once loved the old flag as well as you do; I would have died for it; but now
it is to me only the emblem of oppression."

"I hope the day may never come, Mr. Davis, when I say that," said the Colonel.

A half-hour's conversation on other topics--not of public interest--ensued, and then we rose
to go. As we did so, the Rebel President gave me his hand, and, bidding me a kindly good-bye,
expressed the hope of seeing me again in Richmond in happier times,--when peace should have
returned; but with the Colonel his parting was particularly cordial. Taking his hand in both
of his, he said to him,--

"Colonel, I respect your character and your motives, and I wish you well,--I wish you every
good I can wish you consistently with the interests of the Confederacy."

The quiet, straightforward bearing and magnificent moral courage of our "fighting parson" had
evidently impressed Mr. Davis very favorably.

When we went out, Mr. Benjamin called Judge Ould, who had been waiting during the whole interview--two
hours--at the other end of the hall, and we passed down the stairway together. As I put my
arm within that of the Judge, he said to me,--

"Well, what is the result?"

"Nothing but war,--war to the knife."

"Ephraim is joined to his idols,--let him alone," added the Colonel, solemnly.

I should like to relate the incidents of the next day, when we visited Castle Thunder, Libby
Prison, and the hospitals occupied by our wounded; but the limits of a magazine-article will
not permit. I can only say that at sundown we passed out of the Rebel lines, and at ten o'clock
that night stretched our tired limbs on the "downy" cots in General Butler's tent, thankful,
devoutly thankful, that we were once again under the folds of the old flag.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus ended our visit to Richmond. I have endeavored to sketch it faithfully. The conversation
with Mr. Davis I took down shortly after entering the Union lines, and I have tried to report
his exact language, extenuating nothing, and coloring nothing that he said. Some of his sentences,
as I read them over, appear stilted and high-flown, but they did not sound so when uttered.
As listened to, they seemed the simple, natural language of his thought. He spoke deliberately,
apparently weighing every word, and knowing well that all he said would be given to the public.

He is a man of peculiar ability. Our interview with him explained to me why, with no money
and no commerce, with nearly every one of their important cities in our hands, and with an
army greatly inferior in numbers and equipment to ours, the Rebels have held out so long. It
is because of the sagacity, energy, and indomitable will of Jefferson Davis. Without him the
Rebellion would crumble to pieces in a day; with him it may continue to be, even in disaster,
a power that will tax the whole energy and resources of the nation.

The Southern masses want peace. Many of the Southern leaders want it,--both my companion and
I, by correspondence and intercourse with them, know this; but there can be no peace so long
as Mr. Davis controls the South. Ignoring slavery, he himself states the issue,--the only issue
with him,--Union, or Disunion. That is it. We must conquer, or be conquered. We can negotiate
only with the bayonet. We can have peace and union only by putting forth all our strength,
crushing the Southern armies, and overthrowing the Southern government.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin. By JAMES PARTON. New York: Mason Brothers. Two Volumes. 8vo.

To appreciate the importance of this work, we must remember that it covers more than three-fourths
of a century full of great events, if not of great men; that it begins with Boston and Philadelphia
as small provincial towns, and leaves them the thriving capitals of independent States; that
it finds colonial energy struggling with metropolitan jealousy and ignorance; that it follows
the struggle through all its phases, until the restrictions of the mother became oppression,
and the love of the children was converted into hatred; that it traces the growth and expansion
of American industry,--the dawn of American invention, so full of promise,--the development
of the principle of self-government, so full of power,--the bitter contest, so full of lessons
which, used aright, might have spared us more than half the blood and treasure of the present war.

To appreciate the difficulty of this work, we must remember that the inner and the outer life
of the subject of it are equally full of marvels; that, beginning by cutting off candle-wicks
in a tallow-chandler's shop in Boston, he ended as the greatest scientific discoverer among
those men renowned for science who composed the Royal Society of London and the Academy of
Sciences of Paris; that, with the aid of an odd volume of the "Spectator," used according to
his own conception of the best way of using it, he made himself master of a pure, simple, graceful,
and effective English style; that the opinions and maxims which he drew from his own observation
and reflection have passed into the daily life of millions, warning, strengthening, cheering,
and guiding; that he succeeded in the most difficult negotiations, was a leader of public opinion
on the most important questions, and, holding his way cheerfully, resolutely, and lovingly
to the end, left the world wiser in many things, and in some better, for the eighty-four years
that he had passed in it.

Nor must we forget, that, among the many things which this wonderful old man did, was to tell
us half the story of his own life, and with such unaffected simplicity, such evident sincerity,
and such attractive grace, as to make it--as far as it goes--the most perfect production of
its class. Then why attempt to do it over again? is the question that naturally springs to
every lip, on reading the title of Mr. Parton's book.

Mr. Parton has anticipated this question, and answered it. "Autobiography is one of the most
interesting and valuable kinds of composition; but autobiography can never be accepted in lieu
of biography, because to no man is the giftie given of seeing himself as others see him. Rousseau's
Confessions are a miracle of candor: they reveal much concerning a certain weak, wandering,
diseased, miserable, wicked Jean Jacques; but of that marvellous Rousseau whose writings thrilled
Europe they contain how much? Not one word. Madame D'Arblay's Diary relates a thousand pleasant
things, but it does not tell us what manner of person Madame D'Arblay was. Franklin's Autobiography
gives agreeable information respecting a sagacious shopkeeper of Philadelphia, but has little
to impart to us respecting the grand Franklin, the world's Franklin, the philosopher, the statesman,
the philanthropist. A man cannot reveal his best self, nor, unless he is a Rousseau, his worst.
Perhaps he never knows either."

The basis of Mr. Parton's work is, as the basis of every satisfactory biography must be, the
writings of its subject. "After all," he says, "Dr. Jared Sparks's excellent edition of the
'Life and Works of Franklin,' is the source of the greater part of the information we possess
concerning him.... The libraries, the public records, and the private collections of England,
France, and the United States, were so diligently searched by Dr. Sparks, that, though seven
previous editions of the works of Franklin had appeared, he was able to add to his publication
the astonishing number of six hundred and fifty pieces of Dr. Franklin's composition never
before collected, of which four hundred and fifty had never before appeared in print. To unwearied
diligence in collecting Dr. Sparks added an admirable talent in elucidating. His notes are
always such as an intelligent reader would desire, and they usually contain all the information
needed for a perfect understanding of the matter in hand. Dr. Sparks's edition is a monument
at once to the memory of Benjamin Franklin and to his own diligence, tact, and faithfulness."
We take great pleasure in copying this passage, both because it seems to illustrate the spirit
which Mr. Parton brought to his task, and because the value of Mr. Sparks's labors have not
always been so freely acknowledged by those who have been freest in their use of them.

To a careful study of those volumes Mr. Parton has added patient and extensive research among
the newspapers and magazines of the time, and, apparently, a wide range of general reading.
Thus he has filled his work with facts, some curious, some new, and all interesting, as well
in their bearing upon the times as upon the man. He is a good delver, a good sifter, and, what
is equally important, a good interpreter,--not merely bringing facts to the light, but compelling
them to give out, like Correggio's pictures, a light of their own. He possesses, too, in an
eminent degree, the power of forming for himself a conception of his subject as a whole, keeping
it constantly before his mind in the elaboration of the parts, and thus bringing it vividly
before the mind of the reader. Franklin's true place in history has never before been assigned
him upon such incontrovertible evidence.

If we were to undertake to name the parts of this work which have given us most satisfaction,
we should, although with some hesitation, name the admirable chapters which Mr. Parton has
devoted to Franklin's diplomatic labors in England and France. In none of his good works has
that great man been more exposed to calumny, or treated with more barefaced ingratitude by
those who profited most by them, than in bringing to light the dangerous letters of Hutchinson
and Oliver. Even within the last few years, the apologetic biographer of John Adams repeats
the accusation of moral obliquity in a tone that would hardly have been misplaced in a defence
of Wedderburn. Mr. Parton tells the story with great simplicity, and, without entering into
any unnecessary disquisition, accepts for his commentary upon it Mr. Bancroft's wise, and,
as it seems to us, unanswerable conclusion. "Had the conspiracy which was thus laid bare aimed
at the life of a minister or the king, any honest man must have immediately communicated the
discovery to the Secretary of State: to conspire to introduce into America a military government,
and abridge American liberty, was a more heinous crime, of which irrefragable evidence had
now come to light."

Never, too, was philosopher more severely tried than Franklin was tried by the colleagues whom
Congress sent him, from time to time, as clogs upon the great wheel which he was turning so
skilfully. And this, too, Mr. Parton has set in full light, not by the special pleading of
the apologist, but by the documentary researches of the historian.

There are some things, however, in this work which we could have wished somewhat different
from what they are. Mr. Parton's fluent and forcible style sometimes degenerates into flippancy.
We could cite many instances of felicitous expression, some, also, of bad taste, and some of
hasty assertion. "Clubable" is hardly a good enough word to bear frequent repetition. "This
question was a complete baffler" is too much like slang to be admitted into the good company
which Mr. Parton's sentences usually keep. We were not aware that "Physician, heal thyself"
was a stock classical allusion. We do not believe--for Dante and Milton would rise up in judgment
against us, even if the vast majority of other great men did not--that "it is only second-rate
men who have great aims." We do not believe that the style of the "Spectator" is an "easily
imitated style"; for, of the hundreds who have tried, how many, besides Franklin, have really
succeeded in imitating it? We do not believe that Latin and Greek are an "obstructing nuisance,"
or that the student of Homer and Thucydides and Demosthenes and Plato and Aristotle and Cæsar
and Cicero and Tacitus is merely studying "the prattle of infant man," or "adding the ignorance
of the ancients to the ignorance he was born with." We believe, on the contrary, that it was
by such studies that Gibbon and Niebuhr and Arnold and Grote acquired their marvellous power
of discovering historical truth and detecting historical error, and that from no modern language
could they have received such discipline.

But we not only agree with the sentiment, but admire the simple energy of the expression, when
he says that "Franklin was the man of all others then alive who possessed in the greatest perfection
the four grand requisites for the successful observation of Nature or the pursuit of literature,--a
sound and great understanding, patience, dexterity, and an independent income." Equally judicious
and equally well-expressed is the following passage upon the Penns:--"Thomas Penn was a man
of business, careful, saving, and methodical. Richard Penn was a spendthrift. Both were men
of slender abilities, and not of very estimable character. They had done some liberal acts
for the Province, such as sending over presents to the Library of books and apparatus, and
cannon for the defence of Philadelphia. If the Pennsylvanians had been more submissive, they
would doubtless have continued their benefactions. But, unhappily, they cherished those erroneous,
those Tory notions of the rights of sovereignty which Lord Bute infused into the contracted
mind of George III., and which cost that dull and obstinate monarch, first, his colonies, and
then his senses. It is also rooted in the British mind, that a landholder is entitled to the
particular respect of his species. These Penns, in addition to the pride of possessing acres
by the million, felt themselves to be the lords of the land they owned, and of the people who
dwelt upon it." And in speaking of English ideas of American resistance:--"Englishmen have
made sublime sacrifices to principle, but they appear slow to believe that any other people
can." And, "George III. sat upon a constitutional throne, but he had an unconstitutional mind."
It would be difficult to find a more comprehensive sentence than the following:--"The counsel
employed by Mr. Mauduit was Alexander Wedderburn, a sharp, unprincipled Scotch barrister, destined
to scale all the heights of preferment which shameless subserviency could reach."

It would be easy to multiply examples, but we have given, we believe, more than enough to show
that we look upon Mr. Parton's "Franklin" as a work of very great value.

The steadily growing fame of Thoreau has this characteristic, that it is, like his culture,
a purely American product, and is no pale reflection of the cheap glories of an English reprint.
Whether he would have gained or lost by a more cosmopolitan training or criticism is not the
question now; but certain it is that neither of these things went to the making of his fame.
Classical and Oriental reading he had; but beyond these he cared for nothing which the men
and meadows of Concord could not give, and for this voluntary abnegation, half whimsical, half
sublime, the world repaid him with life-long obscurity, and will yet repay him with permanent
renown.

His choice of subjects, too, involves the same double recompense; for no books are less dazzling
or more immortal than those whose theme is external Nature. Nothing else wears so well. History
becomes so rapidly overlaid with details, and its aspects change so fast, that the most elaborate
work soon grows obsolete; while a thoroughly sincere and careful book on Nature cannot be superseded,
and lives forever. Its basis is real and permanent. There will always be birds and flowers,
nights and mornings. The infinite fascinations of mountains and of forests will outlast this
war, and the next, and the race that makes the war. The same solidity of material which has
guarantied permanence to the fame of Izaak Walton and White of Selborne will as surely secure
that of Thoreau, who excels each of these writers upon his own ground, while superadding a
wider culture, a loftier thought, and a fine, though fantastic, literary skill. All men may
not love Nature, but all men ultimately love her lovers. And of those lovers, past or present,
Thoreau is the most profound in his devotion, and the most richly repaid.

Against these great merits are to be set, no doubt, some formidable literary defects: an occasional
mistiness of expression, like the summit of Katahdin, as he himself describes it,--one vast
fog, with here and there a rock protruding; also, an occasional sandy barrenness, like his
beloved Cape Cod. In truth, he never quite completed the transition from the observer to the
artist. With the power of constructing sentences as perfectly graceful as a hemlock-bough,
he yet displays the most wayward aptitude for literary caterpillars'-nests and all manner of
disfigurements. The same want of artistic habit appears also in his wilful disregard of all
rules of proportion. He depicts an Indian, for instance, with such minute observation and admirable
verbal skill that one feels as if neither Catlin nor Schoolcraft ever saw the actual creature;
but though the table-talk of the aboriginal may seem for a time more suggestive than that of
Coleridge or Macaulay, yet there is a point beyond which his, like theirs, becomes a bore.

In addition to these drawbacks, one finds in Thoreau an unnecessary defiance of tone, and a
very resolute non-appreciation of many things which a larger mental digestion can assimilate
without discomfort. In his dealings with Nature he is sweet, genial, patient, wise. In his
dealings with men he exasperates himself over the least divergence from the desired type. Before
any over-tendency to the amenities and luxuries of civilization, in particular, he becomes
unreasonable and relentless. Hence there appears something hard and ungenial in his views of
life, utterly out of keeping with the delicate tenderness which he shows in the woods. The
housekeeping of bees and birds he finds noble and beautiful, but for the home and cradle of
the humblest human pair he can scarcely be said to have even toleration; a farmer's barn he
considers a cumbrous and pitiable appendage, and he lectures the Irish women in their shanties
for their undue share of the elegancies of life. With infinite faith in the tendencies of mineral
and vegetable nature, in human nature he shows no practical trust, and must even be severe
upon the babies in the Maine log-huts for playing with wooden dolls instead of pine-cones.
It is, indeed, noticeable that he seems to love every other living animal more unreservedly
than the horse,--as if this poor sophisticated creature, though still a quadruped and a brother,
had been so vitiated by undue intimacy with man as to have become little better than if he
wore broadcloth and voted.

Yet there was not in Thoreau one trait of the misanthrope; his solitary life at Walden was
not chosen because he loved man less, but because he loved Nature more; and any young poet
or naturalist might envy the opportunities it gave him. But his intellectual habits showed
always a tendency to exaggeration, and he spent much mental force in fighting shadows, Church
and State, war and politics,--a man of solid vigor must find room in his philosophy to tolerate
these matters for a time, even if he cannot cordially embrace them. But Thoreau, a celibate,
and at times a hermit, brought the Protestant extreme to match the Roman Catholic, and though
he did not personally ignore one duty of domestic life, he yet held a system which would have
excluded wife and child, house and property. His example is noble and useful to all high-minded
young people, but only when interpreted by a philosophy less exclusive than his own. In urging
his one social panacea, "Simplify, I say, simplify," he failed to see that all steps in moral
or material organization are really efforts after the same process he recommends. The sewing-machine
is a more complex affair than the needle, but it simplifies every woman's life, and helps her
to that same comparative freedom from care which Thoreau would seek only by reverting to the
Indian blanket.

But many-sided men do not move in battalions, and even a one-sided philosopher may be a boon
to think of, if he be as noble as Thoreau. His very defects are higher than many men's virtues,
and his most fantastic moralizings will bear reading without doing harm, especially during
a Presidential campaign. Of his books, "Walden" will probably be permanently reckoned as the
best, as being the most full and deliberate exhibition of the author's mind, and as extracting
the most from the least material. It is also the most uniform in texture, and the most complete
in plan, while the "Week" has no unity but that of the chronological epoch it covers,--a week
which is probably the most comprehensive on record, ranging from the Bhagvat-Geetha to the
"good time coming,"--and the "Excursions" no unity but that of the covers which comprise them,
being, indeed, a compilation of his earliest and latest essays. Which of his four volumes contains
his finest writing it would really be hard to say; but in structure the present book comes
nearest to "Walden"; it is within its limits a perfect monograph of the Maine woods. All that
has been previously written fails to portray so vividly the mysterious life of the lonely forest,--the
grandeur of Katahdin or Ktaadn, that hermit-mountain,--and the wild and adventurous navigation
of those Northern water-courses whose perils make the boating of the Adirondack region seem
safe and tame. The book is also more unexceptionably healthy in its tone than any of its predecessors,
and it is pleasant to find the author, on emerging from his explorations, admitting that the
confines of civilization afford, after all, the best residence, and that the wilderness is
of most value as "a resource and a background."

There yet remain for publication Thoreau's adventures on Cape Cod; his few public addresses
on passing events, especially those on the Burns Rescue and the John-Brown affair, which were
certainly among the very ablest productions called forth by those exciting occasions; his poems;
and his private letters to his friend Blake, of Worcester, and to others,--letters which certainly
contain some of his toughest, and perhaps also some of his finest writing. All these deserve,
and must one day receive, preservation. He who reads most books reads that which has a merely
temporary interest, and will be presently superseded by something better; but Nature has waited
many centuries for Thoreau, and we can hardly expect to see, during this generation, another
mortal so favored with her confidence.

Jennie Juneiana: Talks on Women's Topics. By JENNIE JUNE. Boston: Lee & Shepard. 12mo. pp. 240.

Great are the resources of human invention, and the tiresome passion for alliterative titles
may possibly have culminated in some name yet more foolish than that of this little green and
gold volume. If so, the rival has proved too much for the trump of Fame to carry, and has dropped
unnoticed. In the present case, the title does perhaps some injustice to the book, which is
not a silly one, though it contains very silly things. It seems to be written from the point
of view afforded by a second-rate New-York boarding-house, and by a person who has never come
in contact with any refined or well-bred people. With this allowance, it is written in the
interest of good manners and good morals, and with enough of natural tact to keep the writer
from getting far beyond her depth, although she does talk of "Goethe's Mignion" and "Miss Werner,"--whoever
these personages may be,--and of "the substantial fame achieved by the unknown author of 'Rutledge.'"
It is written in the prevalent American newspaper-style,--a style which is apt to be graphic,
piquant, and dashing, accompanied by a flavor, slight or more than slight, of flippancy and
slang,--a style such as reaches high-tide in certain "popular" native authors, male and female,
and in ebbing strands us on "Jennie June."

Of course, writing from the windows of Mrs. Todgers, "Jennie" manifests the usual superfluous
anxiety of her kind not to be called strong-minded. She is prettily indignant at the thought
of female physicians: there is nothing improper in having diseases, but to cure them would
be indelicacy indeed. Girls out of work, who wish for places in shops, are only "patriotic
young ladies who desire to fill all the lucrative situations at present occupied by young men."
She would even banish Bridget from the kitchen and substitute unlimited Patricks, which will
interest housekeepers as being the only conceivable remedy worse than the disease. Of course,
a female lecturer is an abomination: "Jennie" proves, first, that a "strong-minded woman" must
be either unmarried or unhappy in marriage, and then turns, with rather illogical wrath, upon
Lucy Stone and Antoinette Brown, for being too domestic to make speeches since their marriage.
To follow the court phraseology, "This reminds us of a little anecdote." When the fashion of
long, flowing wigs was just vanishing in Boston, somebody wore one from that town down to Salem,
where they were entirely extinct. All the street-boys ran after him all the morning, to ask
him why he wore a wig. He, wishing to avoid offence, left it in the house at dinner-time; and
was pursued all the afternoon by the same boys, with the inquiry why he did not wear a wig.
These eloquent women find it equally hard to please their little critic by silence or by speech.
The simple truth probably is, that they hold precisely the same views which they always held,
and will live to trouble her yet, when the epoch of the nursery is over. The majority of women's-rights
advocates have always been wives and mothers, and, for aught we know, excellent ones, since
that dear, motherly old Quakeress, Lucretia Mott, first broached the matter; and the great
change in our legislation on all the property-rights of that sex is just as directly traceable
to their labors as is the repeal of the English corn-laws to the efforts of the "League." If,
however, "Jennie" consoles herself with the reflection that the points made in this controversy
by the authors of "Hannah Thurston" and "Miss Gilbert's Career" are not much stronger than
her own, she must remember her favorite theory, that all foolishness sounds more respectable
when uttered from masculine lips.

1. Woman and her Era. By ELIZA W. FARNHAM. In Two Volumes. New York: A. J. Davis & Co.

2. Second to no American woman save Miss Dix in her experience as a practical philanthropist,
she has studied human nature in the sternest practical schools, from Sing-Sing to California.
She justly claims for her views that they have been maturing for twenty-two years of "experience
so varied as to give it almost every form of trial which could fall to the intellectual life
of any save the most favored women." Her books show, moreover, an ardent love of literature
and some accurate scientific training,--though her style has the condensation and vigor which
active life creates, rather than the graces of culture.

The essence of her book lies in this opening syllogism:--

"Life is exalted in proportion to its organic and functional complexity;

"Woman's organism is more complex and her totality of function larger than those of any other
being inhabiting our earth;

"Therefore her position in the scale of life is the most exalted,--the sovereign one."

This is compactly stated and quite unequivocal, although the three last words of the conclusion
are a step beyond the premises, and the main fight of her opponents would no doubt be made
on her definition of the word being. The assumption that either sex of a given species is a
distinct "being" cannot probably be slid into the minor premise of the argument without some
objection from the opposing counsel. However, this brings us at once to the main point, and
the chapter called "The Organic Argument," which opens with this syllogism, is really the pith
of the book, and would, perhaps, stand stronger without the other six hundred pages. In this
chapter she shows the strength of a system-maker, in the rest the weaknesses of one; she feels
obliged to apply her creed to everything, to illustrate everything by its light, to find unexpected
confirmations everywhere, and to manipulate all the history of art, literature, and society,
till she conforms them all to her standard. She recites, with no new power, historical facts
that are already familiar; and gives many pages to extracts from very well known poets and
very ill known prose-writers, to the exclusion of her own terse and vigorous thought. All this
is without a trace of book-making, but is done in single-hearted zeal for views which are only
damaged by the process.

These are merely literary defects; but Mrs. Farnham really suffers in thought by the same unflinching
fidelity to her creed. It makes her clear and resolute in her statement; but it often makes
her as one-sided as the advocates of male supremacy whom she impugns. To be sure, her theory
enables her to extenuate some points of admitted injustice to woman,--finding, for instance,
in her educational and professional exclusions a crude effort, on the part of society, to treat
her as a sort of bird-of-paradise, born only to fly, and therefore not needing feet. Yet this
authoress is obliged to assume a tone of habitual antagonism towards men, from which the advocates
of mere equality are excused. Indeed, the technical Woman's-Rights movement has always witnessed
a very hearty coöperation among its advocates of both sexes, and it is generally admitted that
men are at least as ready to concede additional rights as women to ask for them. But when one
comes to Mrs. Farnham's stand-point, and sees what her opinion of men really is, the stanchest
masculine ally must shrink from assigning himself to such a category of scoundrels. The best
criticism made on Michelet's theory of woman as a predestined invalid was that of the sensible
physician who responded, "As if the Almighty did not know how to create a woman!"--and Mrs.
Farnham certainly proves too much in undertaking to expose the blunders of Deity in the construction
of a man. Assuming, as she invariably does, the highest woman to be the typical woman, and
the lowest man to be the typical man, she can prove anything she pleases. But even this does
not content her; every gleam of tenderness and refinement exhibited by man she transfers by
some inexplicable legerdemain of logic to the feminine side, and makes somehow into a new proof
of his hopeless inferiority; and she is landed at last in the amazing paradox, that "the most
powerful feminine souls have appeared in masculine forms, thus far in human career." (Vol.
II. p. 360.)

In short, her theory involves a necessity of perpetual overstatement. The conception of a pure
and noble young man, such as Richter delineates in his Walt or Albano, seems utterly foreign
to her system; and of that fine subtilty of nature by which the highest types of manhood and
womanhood approach each other, as if mutually lending refinement and strength, she seems to
have no conception. The truth is, that, however much we may concede to the average spiritual
superiority of woman, a great deal also depends on the inheritance and the training of the
individual. Mrs. Farnham, like every refined woman, is often shocked by the coarseness of even
virtuous men; but she does not tell us the other side of the story,--how often every man of
refinement has occasion to be shocked by the coarseness of even virtuous women. Sexual disparities
may be much; but individual disparities are even more.

Mrs. Farnham is noble enough, and her book is brave and wise enough, to bear criticisms which
grow only from her attempting too much. The difference between her book and most of those written
on the other side is, that in the previous cases the lions have been the painters, and here
it is the lioness. As against the exaggerations on the other side, she has a right to exaggerate
on her part. As against the theory that man is superior to woman because he is larger, she
has a right to plead that in that case the gorilla were the better man, and to assert on the
other hand that woman is superior because smaller,--Emerson's mountain and squirrel. As against
the theory that glory and dominion go with the beard, she has a right to maintain (and that
she does with no small pungency) that Nature gave man this appendage because he was not to
be trusted with his own face, and needed this additional covering for his shame. As against
the historical traditions of man's mastery, she does well to urge that creation is progressive,
and that the megalosaurus was master even before man. It is, indeed, this last point which
constitutes the crowning merit of the book, and which will be permanently associated with Mrs.
Farnham's name. No one before her has so firmly grasped this key to woman's historic position,
that the past was an age of coarse, preliminary labor, in which her time had not yet come.
This theory, as elucidated by Mrs. Farnham, taken with the fine statement of Buckle as to the
importance of the intuitive element in the feminine intellect, (which statement Mrs. Farnham
also quotes,) constitutes the most valuable ground logically conquered for woman within this
century. These contributions are eclipsed in importance only by those actual achievements of
women of genius,--as of Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Rosa Bonheur, and Harriet Hosmer,--which,
so far as they go, render all argument superfluous.

In this domain of practical achievement Mrs. Farnham has also labored well, and the autobiography
of her childish years, when she only aspired after such toils, has an interest wholly apart
from that of her larger work, and scarcely its inferior. Except the immortal "Pet Marjorie,"
one can hardly recall in literature a delineation so marvellous of a childish mind so extraordinary
as "Eliza Woodson." The few characters appear with an individuality worthy of a great novelist;
every lover of children must find it altogether fascinating, and to the most experienced student
of human nature it opens a new chapter of startling interest.

The Cliff-Climbers; or, The Lone Home in the Himalayas. A Sequel to "The Plant-Hunters." By
CAPTAIN MAYNE REID, Author of "The Desert Home," "The Boy-Hunters," etc., etc. With Illustrations.
Boston: Ticknor & Fields.

Beloved of boys, the adventurous Mayne Reid continues from year to year his good work as a
story-teller. Since he held the youthful student a spellbound reader of "The Desert Home,"
he has sent abroad a dozen volumes, all excellent in their way, for the entertainment of his
ever-increasing audience. He has not, however, dealt quite fairly by his boy-friends. He kept
them waiting several years for the completion of "The Plant-Hunters," and it is only now that
he has found time to add "The Cliff-Climbers" as a sequel to that fascinating story. While
we thank him for the book that gives us farther acquaintance with those stirring individuals,
Karl and Caspar, we cannot help reminding him how long ago it is since we read "The Plant-Hunters,"
and wished for more.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS

RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

Poetry of the Age of Fable. Collected by Thomas Bulfinch. Boston. J. E. Tilton & Co. 18mo.
pp. x., 251. $2.00.

Phantom Leaves. A Treatise on the Art of producing Skeleton Leaves. Boston. J. E. Tilton &
Co. 12mo. pp. 96. $1.50.

Wax Flowers: How to make them. With New Methods of sheeting Wax, modelling Fruit, etc. Boston.
J. E. Tilton & Co. 12mo. pp. 116. $1.50.

The Bridal Eve. $1.50.

The Potomac and the Rapidan. Army Notes, from the Failure at Winchester to the Reinforcement
of Rosecrans. By Alonzo H. Quint, Chaplain of the Second Massachusetts Infantry. Boston. Crosby
& Nichols. 12mo. pp. 407. $1.75.

Hotspur. A Tale of the Old Dutch Manor. By Mansfield T. Walworth, Author of "Lulu." New York.
G. W. Carleton. 12mo. pp. 324. $1.25.

The Peninsular Campaign and its Antecedents, as developed by the Report of Major-General George
B. McClellan and other Published Documents. By J. G. Barnard, Lieutenant-Colonel of Engineers
and Brigadier-General of Volunteers, and Chief Engineer in the Army of the Potomac from its
Organization to the Close of the Peninsular Campaign. New York. D. Van Nostrand. 8vo. pp. 94.
$1.00.

Songs of the Soldiers. Arranged and edited by Frank Moore. New York. G. P. Putnam. 18mo. pp.
xvi., 318. $1.00.

Self-Sacrifice. By the Author of "Margaret Maitland." Philadelphia. T. B. Peterson & Brothers.
12mo. pp. 375. $1.50.

Out in the World. A Novel. By T. S. Arthur. New York. G. W. Carleton. 12mo. pp. 312. $1.50.
$1.25. Second Edition. New York. A. J. Davis & Co. 12mo. pp. 426. $1.25.

The Hour which cometh and now is: Sermons preached in Indiana-Place Chapel, Boston. Vol. II.
New York. Sheldon & Co. 12mo. pp. 535. $2.25.

Over the River; or, Pleasant Walks into the Valley of Shadows, and Beyond. A Book of Consolations
for the Sick, the Dying, and the Bereaved. By Thomas Baldwin Thayer. Boston. Tompkins & Co.
12mo. pp. 272. $1.25.

Naomi Torrento. The History of a Woman. By Gertrude F. De Vingut. New York. John Bradburn.
8vo. pp. 275. $2.00.

The Battle-Fields of our Fathers. By Virginia F. Townsend. New York. John Bradburn. 12mo. pp.
368. $1.50.

Precedents of American Neutrality, in Reply to the Speech of Sir Roundell Palmer, Attorney-General
of England, in the British House of Commons, May 13, 1864. By George Bemis. Boston. Little,
Brown, & Co. 8vo. paper. pp. viii., 83. 50 cents.

Rhode Island in the Rebellion. By Edwin M. Stone, of the First Regiment Rhode Island Light
Artillery. Providence. George H. Whitney. 12mo. pp. xxxviii., 398.

The Coward. A Novel of Society and the Field in 1863. By Henry Morford. Philadelphia. T. B.
Peterson & Brothers. 12mo. pp. 520. $2.00. New York. W. A. Townsend. 16mo. pp. 282. $2.00.

Overland Explorations in Siberia, Northern Asia, and the Great Amoor River Country; Incidental
Notices of Manchooria, Mongolia, Kamschatka, and Japan, with Map and Plan of an Overland Telegraph
around the World, viâ Behring's Strait and Asiatic Russia to Europe. By Major Perry McD. Collins,
Commercial Agent of the United States of America for the Amoor River, Asiatic Russia. New York.
D. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. iv., 467.

Life with the Forty-Ninth Massachusetts Volunteers. By Henry T. Johns, late Quartermaster's
Clerk Forty-Ninth Massachusetts Volunteers. Pittsfield. Published for the Author. 12mo. pp.
391. $1.25.

Woman and her Era. By Eliza W. Farnham. New York. A. J. Davis & Co. 12mo. Two Vols. pp. 318,
466. $3.00.

A Woman's Philosophy of Woman; or, Woman Affranchised. An Answer to Michelet, Proudhon, Girardin,
Legouvé, Comte, and other Modern Innovators. By Madame D'Héricourt. New York. G. W. Carleton.
12mo. pp. 317. $1.50.

The New Internal Revenue Law, approved June 30, 1864, with Copious Marginal References, a Complete
Analytical Index, and Tables of Taxation. Compiled by Horace E. Dresser. New York. D. Appleton
& Co. 8vo. paper, pp. 122. 50 cents.

Personal and Political Ballads. Arranged and edited by Frank Moore. New York. G. P. Putnam.
32mo. pp. xvi., 368. $1.00. $1.25.

Dramatis Personæ. By Robert Browning. Boston. Ticknor & Fields. 16mo. pp. 262. $1.50.

"Babble-Brook" Songs. By J. H. McNaughton. Boston. O. Ditson & Co. 16mo. pp. 237. $1.25.

The Early Dawn; or, Sketches of Christian Life in England in the Olden Time. By the Author
of "Chronicles of Schönberg-Cotta Family." With Introduction by Professor Henry B. Smith, D.
D. New York. M. W. Dodd, No. 506 Broadway. 12mo. pp. 397. $1.75.

The Forest Arcadia of Northern New York. Embracing a View of its Mineral, Agricultural, and
Timber Resources. Boston. T. O. H. P. Burnham. 16mo. pp. 224. $1.50.

Azarian: An Episode. By Harriet Elizabeth Prescott, Author of "The Amber Gods," etc. Boston.
Ticknor & Fields. 16mo. pp. 251. $1.25.

Man and his Relations: Illustrating the Influence of the Mind on the Body; the Relations of
the Faculties to the Organs, and to the Elements, Objects, and Phenomena of the External World.
By S. B. Brittan, M. D. New York. W. A. Townsend. 8vo. pp. xiv., 578. $3.50. 16mo. pp. 261. $1.00.