No. 57.] SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 30.

A portrait of this eminent Man was engraved by Pennant, from a picture at Holyrood House, in
Part II. of his Tour in Scotland, p. 243. 4to. Lond. 1776. Lodge has an engraving from the
same portrait in his collection of Illustrious Personages. This is a strange circumstance;
because, when Pinkerton was about to include this portrait in his collection, Pennant wrote
to him, on 30th April, 1796, as follows:

    "Give me leave to say, that I suspect the authenticity of my Cardinal
    Beaton. I fear it is Cardinal Falconer or Falconieri. I think there is
    a genuine one somewhere in Scotland. It will be worth your while to
    inquire if there be one, and engrave it, and add my suspicions, which
    induce you do it."--Pinkerton's Correspondence, vol. i. p. 402. 8vo.
    Lond. 1830.

Pinkerton made inquiry, and on Dec. 1st, 1797, writes to the Earl of Buchan:

    "Mr. Pennant informs me the Cardinal Beaton is false. It is, indeed,
    too modern. A real Beaton is said to exist in Fife."--Pinkerton's
    Correspondence, vol. ii. p. 17.

Lord Buchan writes to him that Mr. Beaton, of Balfour, believes himself to have a genuine portrait
of the Cardinal, and offers it for engraving. The authenticity of this portrait, however, appears
not to have been established, and it was not engraved. Another was found at Yester, and was
at first concluded to be a genuine original: but Lady Ancram soon discovered that it possessed
no marks of originality, but might be a good copy: it was, however, certainly not one of the
six cardinals purchased by the third Earl of Lothian. Finally, it was rejected altogether.
A copy of a portrait from the Vatican was also rejected as undoubtedly spurious. It appears,
therefore, that Pinkerton, in this case at least, exercised caution in the selection of his
subject for engraving, so far as concerned authenticity. His criticism, that the Holyrood House
portrait is "too modern," will be agreed in by all who will take the trouble to compare the
portrait in Lodge with undoubted portraits of the time: the style is too modern by a hundred
years. But the portrait is of a man upwards of sixty years old: Beaton was murdered in 1546,
in the fiftieth year of his age. The portrait is of a dark haired man without beard.

I now come to a portrait of Beaton which there appears reason to think is genuine, and I beg
the favour of your correspondents to give me any information in their power regarding it. This
portrait is in the Roman Catholic College at Blairs, near Aberdeen. It was in the Scotch College
at Rome down to the period of the French occupation of that city in 1798, and formed part of
the plunder {434} from that college. It was subsequently discovered in a sale-room by the late
Abbé Macpherson, rector of the same college, who purchased it and sent it to Blairs, where
it has been for, now, a good many years. That it is a portrait of Beaton's time is certain;
but the artist is unknown, and the picture has sustained damage. It is attributed, by a competent
judge, who has himself painted two careful copies of it, to Titian, not only from its general
style and handling, but from certain peculiarities of canvas, &c., on which latter circumstances,
however, he does not lay much stress, taking them only as adminicles in proof. The portrait
is a half-length, about 2 ft. 6 in. by 2 ft.: it is that of a fresh-coloured, intellectual
man, of forty-five or upwards; hazel eyes; hair slightly reddish, or auburn, just becoming
tinged with grey; a thin small beard; costume similar to that of Holbein's Cardinal Wolsey,
in the hall of Christchurch, Oxford. It bears this inscription, painted at the bottom of the
portrait, and over the original finished painting, and therefore of a subsequent date:

    "David Betonius, S.R.E., Card. Archiep. S. Andreæ in Scotia, ab
    Hostibus Fidei Barbare Trucidatus."

Beaton was elected to the Cardinalate in Dec. 1538; did he visit Rome after that? He was at
all events in Paris. The Scotch College at Rome was a natural habitat for a portrait of a Scottish
churchman so famous as Cardinal Beaton, and it would be strange indeed if they had not one
of him where they affected a collecion of portraits of British prelates. I propose to have
this portrait engraved, if its probable authenticity cannot be shaken. Did Pinkerton engrave
any portrait of Beaton? There is none in my copies of his Iconographia Scotica, 1797, and his
Scottish Gallery, 1799. These contain several duplicates; but it is rare to meet with copies
that can be warranted perfect. If the portrait be published, it will probably be accompanied
by a short memoir, correcting from authentic documents some of the statements of his biographers:
any information either as to the portrait or his life will be thankfully acknowledged. One
or two letters from Lord Buchan, on the subject of Scottish Portraits, appeared in the Gentleman's
Magazine, vol. lxv., but not relating to this particular one.

SCOTUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE POINTING OF A PASSAGE IN "ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL." Scene 3.

So the passage is pointed in Johnson and Steevens, that is, with a comma after the word "things;"
and the same pointing is used in the recent editions of Mr. Knight, Barry Cornwall, and Mr.
Collier.

It occurred to me that this pointing gave a meaning quite out of harmony with what directly
follows, and also with the spirit in which Lafeu speaks.

Lafeu apparently is speaking somewhat sarcastically of those who say miracles are past, and
who endeavour to explain away the wonderful into something common and well-known. Subsequently
I found that Mr. Coleridge, in his Literary Remains (vol. ii. p. 121.), had adduced the above-mentioned
passage, placing the comma after "familiar."

It is, perhaps, rather curious, that although Mr. Collier, in his note on Lafeu's speech, has
quoted the above from Mr. Coleridge, the improved pointing should have escaped that gentleman's
notice.

Looking into Theobald's Shakspeare, I find that he also had placed the comma as Mr. Coleridge
has. Mr. Theobald adds this note:

    "This, as it has hitherto been printed, is directly opposite to our
    poet's and his speaker's meaning. As I have stopped it, the sense
    quadrates with the context: and surely it is one unalterable property
    of philosophy to make seeming strange and preternatural phenomena
    familiar and reducible to cause and reason."

Does not Mr. Theobald, in his closing remark, turn what in Lafeu is really an ironical outburst
on would-be philosophers, into something like a serious common-place?

A. ROFFE.

Query, In a work entitled Philosophy of Shakspeare, by W.H. Roukin, Lafeu's speech is quoted,
and one word changed; "and we have our philosophical persons," &c., becomes "yet we have,"
&c. Is there any authority for such a change?

A.R.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

The bigger the Ring, the nearer the Wet.--On Sunday evening, the 20th Oct., the moon had a
{435} very fine ring round it, which apparently was based near the horizon, and spread over
a considerable area of the heavens. This was noticed by myself and others as we returned home
from church; and upon my mentioning it to my man-servant, who is a countryman, he said he had
been noticing it, and that it reminded him of the old saying, "the bigger the ring, the nearer
the wet." On the next day, however, it was fine and windy, and my faith began to be shaken
as to the truth of the saying; but the almost incessant rain of the four or five subsequent
days fully proved its correctness.

J.A.

Power of prophesying before Death.--To the passages on this subject lately supplied by your
correspondents (Vol. ii., pp. 116. 196.) may be added the following from Tertullian, De Anima,
c. 53. (vol. ii. col. 741., ed. Migne, Paris, 1844):

    "Evenit sæpe animam in ipso divortio potentius agitari, sollicitiore
    obtutu, extraordinariâ loquacitate, dum ex majori suggestu, jam in
    libero constituta, per superfluum quod adhuc cunctatur in corpore
    enuntiat quæ videt, quæ audit, quæ incipit nosse."

J.C.R.

Change in the Appearance of the Dead.--A woman near Maidstone, who had had much experience
as a sick-nurse, told me some years ago that she had always noticed in corpses a change to
a more placid expression on the third day after death; and she supposed this to be connected
with our Lord's resurrection. I omitted to ask her whether the belief were wholly the result
of her own observation, or whether it had been taught her by others, and were common among
her neighbours.

J.C.R.

Strange Remedies.--I find some curious prescriptions in an old book entitled The Pathway to
Health, &c. (I will not trouble you with the full title), "by Peter Levens, Master of Arts
in Oxford, and Student in Physick and Chirurgery."... "Printed for J.W., and are to bee sold
by Charles Tym, at the Three Bibles on London Bridge, MDCLXIV." The first is a charm

    For all manner of falling evils.--Take the blood of his little finger
    that is sick, and write these three verses following, and hang it about
    his neck:

  'Jasper fert Mirrham, Thus Melchior Balthazar Aurum,
  Hæc quicum secum portat tria nomina regum,
  Soleitur à morbo, Domini pietate, caduca.'

and it shall help the party so grieved."

"For a man or woman that is in a consumption.--Take a brasse pot, and fill it with water, and
set it on the fire, and put a great earthen pot within that pot, and then put in these parcels
following:--Take a cock and pull him alive, then flea off his skin, then beat him in pieces;
take dates a pound, and slit out the stones, and lay a layer of them in the bottom of the pot,
and then lay a piece of the cock, and upon that some more of the dates, and take succory, endive,
and parsley roots, and so every layer one upon another, and put in fine gold and some pearl,
and cover the pot as close as may bee with coarse dow, and so let it distill a good while,
and so reserve it for your use till such time as you have need thereof."

I could select some exceedingly ludicrous prescriptions (for the book contains 400 pages),
but the most curious unfortunately happen to be the most indelicate. Besides this, I am afraid
the subject is scarcely worthy of much space in such an important and useful work as "NOTES
AND QUERIES."

ALEXANDER ANDREWS.

Abridge, Essex.

Mice as a Medicine (Vol. i., p. 397.).--An old woman lately recommended an occasional roast
mouse as a certain cure for a little boy who wetted his bed at night. Her own son, she said,
had got over this weakness by eating three roast mice. I am told that the Faculty employ this
remedy, and that it has been prescribed in the Oxford Infirmary.

J.W.H.

Omens from Birds.--It is said that for a bird to fly into a room, and out again, by an open
window, surely indicates the decease of some inmate. Is this belief local?

J.W.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

MODE OF COMPUTING INTEREST.

