1. Book-plate.--Whose was the book-plate with the following device:--An eagle or vulture feeding
with a snake another bird nearly as large as herself; a landscape, with the sea, &c. in the
distance: very meanly engraved, in an oval, compassed with the motto, "Pietas homini tutissima
virtus"?

2. Addison's Books.--I have two or three volumes, bound apparently at the beginning of {213}
the last century, with a stamp on the cover, consisting of J.A., in a cursive character, within
a small circle. Was this the book-stamp of Joseph Addison?

3. Viridis Vallis.--Where was the monastery of "Viridis Vallis," and what is its vernacular name?

4. Cosmopoli.--Has Cosmopoli been ever appropriated to any known locality? Archdeacon Cotton
mentions it among the pseudonymes in his Typographical Gazetteer. The work whose real locality
I wish to ascertain is, Sandii Paradox. iv. Evang. 1670. 1 vol. 8vo.

5. Seriopoli.--The same information is wanting respecting "Seriopoli; apud Entrapelios Impensis
Catonis Uticensis:" which occurs in the title-page of "Seria de Jocis," one of the tracts connected
with the Bollandist controversy.

6. Early Edition of the Vulgate.--Where is there any critical notice of a very beautiful edition
of the Vultage, small 4to., entitled "Sacra Biblia, cum studiis ac diligentia emendata;" in
the colophon, "Venetiis, apud Jolitos, 1588"? The preface is by "Johannes Jolitus de Ferrarüs."
The book is full of curious wood-cuts. This is not the book mentioned in Masch's Le Long (part
ii, p. 229), though that was also printed by the Gioliti in 1588; as the title of the latter
book is "Biblia ad vetustissima Exemplaria castigata," and the preface is by Hentenius.

7. Identity of Anonymous Annotators.--Can any of the correspondents of "NOTES AND QUERIES"
point out to a literary Backwoodsman, like myself, any royal road towards assigning to the
proper authors the handwriting of anonymous annotations in fly-leaves and margins? I have many
of these, which I should be glad to ascertain.

8. Complutensian Polyglot.--In what review or periodical did there appear, some time ago, a
notice of the supposed discovery (or of conjectures as to the existence) of the MSS. from which
the "Complutensian Polyglot" was compiled, involving, of course, the repudiation of the common
story of the rocket maker of Alcala? Has any further light been thrown on this subject?

9. Blunder in Malone's Shakspeare.--Has any notice been taken of the following odd blunder
in Malone's Shakspeare, Dublin ed. 1794?

In vol. ii. p. 138, the editor, speaking of John Shakspeare's will (the father of William),
says "This extraordinary will consisted of fourteen articles, but the first leaf being unluckily
wanting, I am unable to ascertain either its date, or the particular occasion on which it was
written." He then gives a copy of the will, beginning at the third article, in the middle of
a sentence, thus: "... at least spiritually." Now, in the first vol. p. 154. is a document,
professing to be William Shakspeare's will. But of this the first three paragraphs belong to
John Shakspeare's will, his name being mentioned in each: and the third concludes with the
words "at least spiritually." The fourth paragraph, to the end, belongs to William Shakspeare's
will, as given in Johnson and Stevens's editions. This is a palpable instance of editorial
carelessness: Mr. Malone had mixed the two documents, mislaid the first portion of the transcript
of William Shakspeare's will, and then neglected to examine the postscript, or he must have
found out his mistake.

Was this error acknowledged or corrected in any subsequent edition?

JOHN JEBB.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES

Mowbray Coheirs.--Collins in his Peerage (ed. Brydges, 1812), says, at p. 18., speaking of
Thomas Duke of Norfolk:--

    "In 15 Henry VII, he made partition with Maurice, surviving
    brother of William Marquiss of Berkeley (who died issueless), of
    the lands that came to them by inheritance, by right of their
    descent, from the coheirs of Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk;"

and quotes, as his authority, Commun. de T. Pasch, 15 Henry VII., Rot. 1.

The roll of the whole year referred to has been examined, without finding any notice of the
subject.

Should any of your readers have met with the statement elsewhere, it may happen that there
is some error in Collins's reference to his authority; and a clue to the right roll, or any
other notice of the division of this great inheritance, will be acceptable.

G.

Draytone and Yong.--The following note was found by me among the Exchequer Records, on their
sale and dispersion, a few years ago:--

    "I praye you fellowe Draytone do so invehe for me as to Resave
    all svche moneye as is dewe to me from the handes of Ser
    Vincente Skyner Knyghte or else wheare from thos offysers of the
    excheqer And this shalbe yovr discharge. Written the laste daye
    of Janvarye 1607. Henry Yong."

Can your subscribers inform me who the writer was? Mr. Payne Collier states that there was
an interlude-maker of the name of Henry Yong in the reign of Henry VIII. Is it likely that
the note was addressed to Michael Drayton?

ROBT. COLE.

Upper Norton Street, Jan. 23, 1850.

The Fraternity of Christian Doctrine.--I think I see some names among your correspondents who
might inform me where I shall find the fullest account of the Fraternity of Christian Doctrine,
established by St. Charles Borromeo in the diocese of Milan. I am acquainted with the regulations
for their establishment in Acta. Concil. Mediol., and with the incidental notices of them which
{214} occur in Borromeo's writings, as also in the later authors, Bishop Burnet, Alban Butler,
and Bishop Wilson (of Calcutta). The numbers of the Sunday schools under the management of
the Confraternity, the number of teachers, of scholars, the books employed, the occasional
rank in life of the teachers, their method of teaching, and whether any manuals have ever been
compiled for their guidance--are points upon which I would gladly gather any information.

C.F.S.

Treatise by Englebert, Archbishop of Treves.--Bishop Cosin (in his Hist. Trans. cap. vii. §12)
refers to Engelb. Archiep. Trevirensis, ap. Goldasti Imper. tom. i. In Goldast's Politica Imperialia
there is a treatise by S. Engelb. Abb. Admoutens in Austria: but I find neither the author
referred to, nor the treatise intended, by Cosin. According to Eisengrein, who is followed
by Possivinus, there were two Engelberts; viz. Engelbertus, S. Matthiæ Treverensis, Benedictinæ
possessionis Abbus, patria Mosellanus, who lived A.D. 987; and S. Engelbert, who flourished
A.D. 1157, and who is described as Admontensis Benedictinæ posessionis Abbus, Germanus. Can
any of your correspondents kindly direct me to the intended treatise of the Archbishop of Treves?

J. SANSOM.

Oxford, Jan. 9. 1850.

New Year's Day Custom.--I shall be glad if any of your readers can inform me of the origin
and signification, of the custom of carrying about decorated apples on New Year's Day, and
presenting them to the friends of the bearers. The apples have three skewers of wood stuck
into them so as to form a tripod foundation, and their sides are ornamented with oat grains,
while various evergreens and berries adorn the top. A raisin is occasionally fastened on each
oat grain, but this is, I believe, and innovation.

SELEUCUS.

Can any of your correspondents obligingly inform me to whom these not inelegant or unclassical
lines are to be attributed?

ARCHÆUS.

Wiesbaden, Dec. 15. 1849.

    [Footnote 1: See Pindar's First Olympic Ode.]

Norman Pedigrees.--Can any gentleman inform me where (in what book) may be found the situation
of the places from which the companions of William the Norman took their names? Such French
names as have De prefixed--in fact, a Gazetteer? Also, where may be found--if such exist--pedigrees
of the same worthies?

B.

Dr. Johnson's library.--I have long wanted to know what became of the library of Dr. Samuel
Johnson (of our city), or if he had any considerable collection of books. Perhaps some of your
correspondents would answer both these queries. I happen to have a few, some of which were
used in compiling his Dictionary, and are full of his marks, with references to the quotations,
most of which are to be found in the Dictionary. I have also his own Prayer-Book.

T.G. LOMAX.

Lichfield, Jan. 11. 1850.

Golden Frog.--In the church of Boxstead, in the county of Suffolk, there is a large and very
handsome monument of marble, in a niche of which stands, in full proportion, a man in armour,
his head bare, with moustaches and a tuft on his chin; in his right hand he holds a truncheon,
and by his side is his sword; his armour is garnished with gold studs, and his helmet stands
on the ground behind him; from his right ear hangs a gold frog.

This monument was erected in memory of Sir John Poley, of Wrongay, in Norfolk, knight, who
died in 1638, at the age of upwards of eighty, having served much abroad under Henry IV. of
France, Christian King of Denmark, &c., and in Queen Elizabeth's service against the Spaniards.

  "Illius ante alios cepit cum dextera Gades
  Militis Angliaci, et fulmina sensit Iberis."

I send you this detail, in hopes that some of your correspondents may be able to explain the
ornament in his ear, whether it be the badge of any order, and whether any other instance is
known of its use. There is in Boxstead Hall, the seat of the very ancient family of Poley,
a portrait of Sir John having the same ornament.

D.

Singular Motto.--Being at Cheltenham in the summer of 1811, I saw a chariot standing in an
inn yard, on the panels of which, under a coat of arms, apparently belonging to some foreign
family, was the following on a scroll, in the nature of a motto:--"oemn3--ononoe.7 ano--7 emn3."
If any of your correspondents can inform me what is its meaning, and if it be a motto, to what
family it belongs, he will oblige.

P.H.F.

Stroud.

Sir Stephen Fox.--Will any of your intelligent correspondents inform me whether Sir Stephen
Fox, the ancestor of the present Lord Holland and the Earl of Ilchester, had any brothers or
sisters, and if so, whether they had any children, and who are the legal representatives of
those collateral branches, if any?

VULPES. {215}

Antony Alsop.--Will any of your correspondents kindly tell me who Antony Alsop was? A thin
Quarto volume of Latin Odes was published in 1753, with the following title: "Antonii Alsopi
Ædis Christi olim Alumni Ordarum Libri Duo," Londoni, 1753. They are extremely elegant, and
deserving the attention of all lovers of Latin poetry. I have also another volume, "Latin and
English Poems, by a Gentleman of Trinity College, Oxford," Quarto London, 1738. In this latter
volume, with but two or three exceptions, the poems are very obscene, yet I find one or two
of Alsop's odes in it. Could any of your readers tell me if both volumes are by the same author?
Was Alsop at Trinity College and subsequently a student of Christ Church?

R.H.

Derivations of "Calamity," and "Zero;" and meaning of "Prutenicæ".--Will some of your correspondents
give the derivations of Calamity and Zero; also the meaning of the word Prutenicæ, used by
Erasmus Rheinholt, in his astronomical work on the Motions of the Heavenly Bodies?

F.S. MARTIN.

Jew's-Harp.--What is the origin of the term Jew's-Harp, applied to a well-known musical toy?

MELANION.

Sir G. Wyattville.--J.P. would be glad to be informed in what year Sir G. Wyattville was knighted?

