In captivity the marabou is lord of the inclosure, and in zoological gardens where specimens
have been confined no other birds, nor even small beasts, dare approach the feeding trough
until the hunger of this impudent bird is satisfied, and it has retired to the warmest corner
for a nap. The immense strength of its bill makes it a formidable enemy, and when fighting
for food it will often overcome the largest vultures, and wage successful battle with beasts
of prey.

The hyena inhabits the same portions of Asia and Africa as the marabou, and travellers give
accounts of terrible contests between these two singular members of the animal kingdom. The
hyena is called the vulture among beasts, as it prefers carrion for its food, and as long as
it can find dead animals to devour, it leaves the flocks and herds in peace. Cowardly by nature,
it rarely attacks man or beast unless driven to desperation by hunger.

The striped hyena inhabits the northern latitudes of Africa, Persia, and Syria, while the spotted
species, which is easily tamed, and is sometimes called hyena-dog, is found in large numbers
in the vast plains of South Africa.

The hyena is a strange-looking beast. It has a big head and a heavy shaggy mane. The hind part
of its body is much lower than its shoulders, and its hind-legs are short. This odd formation
gives it an awkward shambling manner of walking, which is both ludicrous and hideous.

This creature rarely shows itself by day, but when the shadows of night fall on the plains
and forests, it comes out from its home among the rocks and caverns in search of food. African
travellers are much annoyed by it. When the camp is silent, and all are sleeping, the hyena
comes prowling round, uttering hoarse human cries; and should it fail to find sufficient camp
refuse to satisfy its hunger, some poor donkey is sure to be torn in pieces by its terribly
strong jaws.

Few animals have been the subject of so much superstition. In ancient times it was believed
that a dog went mad if a hyena turned its evil-eye upon it, and the beast was believed by many
to be a wicked sorcerer who went about in human form by day, and at night assumed the shape
of a hyena. The poor and ignorant peasantry of Arabia, even at the present day, believe in
the evil-eye of this beast, and are afraid to shoot it lest they should incur the wrath of
the wicked spirit which they imagine walks the earth in this ugly form.

The poor hyena, however, far from being an evil spirit, is a real blessing to the regions it
inhabits, as it is a natural scavenger, provided by the kind wisdom of nature to clear the
ground of much loathsome and decaying matter, thereby rendering the air sweeter and purer and
more healthful.

CHATTER-BOX AND CHATTER-BAG.

BY A. P. C.

Doubtless you all know what a chatter-box is, but are any of you acquainted with a chatter-bag?
I do not think the word is in the dictionary, and yet the article exists. Perhaps you would
like to hear how it came to be invented.

Once upon a time a young lady, whom we will call Miss Matilda, entered upon her duties as teacher
in a large school. There were about fifty girls in her department, and she had to be somewhat
of a disciplinarian to keep them all in order. But things, on the whole, went quietly, until
one morning a pleasant-faced old lady appeared, and introduced as a new pupil her granddaughter
Anna Maria Spilkins.

Anna Maria S. was eleven years of age. She was a graceful little person, with large round blue
eyes, rosy cheeks, and a quantity of short, curly, golden hair. Her face was very bright; she
had the appearance of being uncommonly clever. But she was eminently a chatter-box.

This fact soon made itself felt. Miss Matilda had scarcely placed her at a desk, and bowed
Madam Grandma out of the school-room, when the chattering commenced. Anna Maria leaned over
and whispered something to the girl on her right hand, then something to the one on the left,
then a word to the one in front of her, then a word to the one behind her. Miss Matilda looked
at her gently, then gently reprovingly, then reprovingly, then sternly, and all the glances
were totally lost on Anna Maria. Miss Matilda benevolently thought, Perhaps this child has
never been to school before.

"Anna Maria," she said, in a serious tone.

"What, ma'am?" said Anna Maria, looking up with perfect innocence in her clear blue eyes.

"Did you ever attend school before?"

"Oh dear yes! Why, I went when I was only three years old. First I went to Mrs. McToole's,
and then I went to Miss Smith's, and then I went to Mr. Brown's, and then--"

"There, that will do," exclaimed Miss Matilda. "You can tell me the rest some other time. What
I wish to know now is, were you allowed to talk as much as you pleased in those schools?"

"Well, I don't know as I was," replied Anna Maria, looking down, and blushing a little.

"The rule here," continued Miss Matilda, "is silence. I hope, my dear, that you will never
speak except when it is absolutely necessary."

"Yes, ma'am," said Anna Maria, in a subdued tone, after which she closed her lips very tightly.

Miss Matilda called up the first class in geography, and proceeded to hear the lesson. In about
five minutes her keen ear became conscious of a faint whispering sound. She glanced quickly
in the direction of Anna Maria: evidently it was her little tongue that was wagging. But it
was wagging very gently, and its waggery was addressed to one of the best girls in school.
Miss Matilda thought, Perhaps she is asking some necessary questions: I will not be severe
with her the first day. So she said nothing. But in five minutes more the whisper had risen
to quite a buzz, and Miss Matilda detected distinctly the words, "White, with three flounces,
and a new pink sash."

"Anna Maria!" she exclaimed.

"What, ma'am?"

"Did I not tell you that you were not to speak unless it was absolutely necessary?"

"Oh dear yes! I beg your pardon, teacher. I forgot all about it."

"Well, my dear, I trust you will be perfectly quiet now."

"Yes, ma'am," said Anna Maria, very meekly. She closed her lips tightly again, and was quiet--for
about five minutes.

Miss Matilda thought, To-morrow, when she has her lessons to recite, it will be different.

But Miss Matilda was mistaken; to-morrow, when she had lessons to recite, it was exactly the same.

Chatter, chatter, chatter, Anna Maria kept it up day after day, from one end of the week to
the other. The industrious girls were seriously annoyed by it. To the idle pupils it was a
new excuse for idleness; to the silly ones, a new excuse for giggling. And punishment seemed
to make no impression on Anna Maria. Again and again she was ordered to stand up in the corner.
She went meekly and stood there, and in two minutes was chattering with the girl who sat nearest
to her. She was told to stay in after school a quarter of an hour; half an hour; an hour; an
hour and a half. She never put her head down on the desk and cried, as some of the girls did
when they were kept in; she staid her time out quite cheerfully, and chattered with all her
fellow-culprits. Miss Matilda thought, This child is simply distracting.

Then she made a rule that Anna Maria was not to speak to any person in the school excepting
her teacher. And what was the result? At all hours of the day, in the midst of the most important
business, Miss Matilda would be interrupted with talk similar to the following:

"Oh, teacher, may I speak to you one minute?"

"Certainly. What is it?"

"I just want to tell you about my cousin Susie's new doll. You ought to see it; it is perfectly
splendid!--wax face and hands and feet, and real hair, and--"

"Anna Maria, have I not told you repeatedly that you were not to speak about anything except
what was absolutely necessary? Now do you think that such conversation is necessary?"

Anna Maria hung her head a little, and then she said, in a sort of apologetic way, "Well, teacher,
it may not seem so, but really it is necessary for me. You see, I get thinking about something,
and I can't stop thinking about it until I have told it to somebody else."

"Well, and when you have relieved your mind in this manner, at the expense of peace and quiet
to the whole school, what then?"

"Oh, then I think about something else."

"Yes, and then you wish to chatter about that."

"But really, teacher, I can't help it. I always was so. Grandma says I talk more than all the
rest of the family put together. In fact, the family have to be quiet because I talk so much.
I always did, you know. It is one of those things that can't be altered."

"Ah," said Miss Matilda, a little dryly, "I was not aware of that. Thank you for the information.
I am sorry you did not tell me before."

One bright December afternoon, when school was about to be dismissed, Miss Matilda arose and said:

"Girls, I have decided that this class is to receive a Christmas present--something which will
be useful and agreeable to you all. As this article (which I will not at present name) requires
some very neat sewing, I have further decided that Miss Anna Maria Spilkins, whom I heard mentioned
as an excellent needle-woman, shall have the honor of making it."

The girls applauded, and Anna Maria looked very proud.

"Anna Maria," continued Miss Matilda, "do you think your grandmother has a nice piece of calico
at home, about a yard and a half long, which she could let us have?"

"Oh dear yes," replied Anna Maria. "Why, she has lots. Last winter she made a patchwork quilt,
and she went down to New York and bought everything new for it. Aunt Jemima thought she could
have used some things that were in the house, but she thought she couldn't--and you never saw
the like! One yard of this, and two yards of that, and three yards of the other--enough to
make half a dozen quilts--and every bit of it perfectly lovely. Oh, there is one piece that
is just splendid! It is pink, with flowers of every color you can think of all over it. It
is so bright you can hardly look at it."

"That would be the very thing. Do you think she will let us have it?"

"Oh, I guess so. I'll talk her into it; you depend on me for that."

"Very well. And to-morrow you will bring with you the calico, a yard and a half of alpaca braid
to match, and your sewing materials."

"Yes, ma'am."

"Also, a large brass-headed nail and a hammer."

"Why, what is that for?"

"You will see when the time comes. And you will be excused from your lessons in the last hour
on Thursday and Friday, so that you can do this piece of sewing in school."

"Thank you, ma'am."

Anna Maria was delighted. She felt herself a very important personage: besides, she had something
new about which to chatter. Some of the other girls, however, were quite sulky over the affair.
"I don't see why one of us couldn't do it," said one. "Miss Matilda is dreadfully partial,"
said another. "Yes, she lets Anna Maria Spilkins do anything she likes," said a third. But
all were equally curious about it. "I do wonder what it can be," was heard on all sides.

The next morning Anna Maria arrived, bundle in hand. With great pride she spread out its contents.
The girls were fairly dazzled with the beauty of the pink calico. In the afternoon, at the
beginning of the last school hour, Miss Matilda said, "Anna Maria, have you brought the things
we spoke of yesterday?"

"Yes, ma'am," said Anna Maria, stepping up to the desk.

Miss Matilda examined them with satisfaction. "Now, Anna Maria, take that brass-headed nail
in your left hand, and the hammer in your right."

"Yes, ma'am."

"Do you notice that bar of wood along the wall, about five feet from the floor?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"Now measure carefully, and find the spot exactly over the middle of your desk; then drive
the nail in."

Anna Maria obeyed. The hammering resounded strangely through the quiet school-room. When this
piece of work was over, Miss Matilda folded down the pink calico, and marked out two long seams
to be run and felled. Anna Maria took the sewing to her seat, and stitched away complacently,
while the other girls fretted and growled over "that horrid grammar lesson." When school was
over, she brought the work to Miss Matilda, who put it away carefully in her desk.

"Ah, teacher, do tell us what it is!" some of the girls exclaimed.

"I think you will see to-morrow," Miss Matilda answered, quietly.

The next afternoon Anna Maria resumed her work.

"I do believe it is going to be a bag," whispered one of the girls, who was watching her.

"Why, yes, so it is," said another. "But what can it be for?"

"Do you think Miss Matilda could mean to have a Christmas grab-bag for us?" asked a third.

"I don't know why she should," said a fourth; "I don't see that we have been so awfully good
as all that."

But a bag undoubtedly it was. Half an hour before school was over, Anna Maria had finished
the string-case, and run the piece of pink alpaca braid through it. The work was done. She
walked to the desk triumphantly, and presented it to her teacher. Miss Matilda examined it,
commended the sewing, and then handed it back to her.

"And now, Anna Maria," she asked, "do you know what this bag is for?"

"No, ma'am."

"Have you no idea?"

"No, ma'am."

"It is to put your head in! In future I shall never reprove you for talking. You may talk as
much and as often as you please, but all you say must go into this bag. When it is quite full
of talk, draw the string tight, so that not one word escapes, and bring it to me. Then I will
empty the chatter out of the window, where it will disturb no one, and return you the bag,
to be refilled whenever you choose."

A wild shout of laughter rang through the school-room. Anna Maria turned crimson, and dropped
the bag. She would have been glad if the floor had opened and swallowed her. She could make
no answer--for once in her life she was dumb.

"Pick up the bag, Anna Maria," said Miss Matilda, "and hang it on the nail above your desk."

Very slowly and unwillingly the little girl obeyed. She took her seat, and then, for the first
time since she came to school, put her head down on her desk and cried. Miss Matilda took no
notice; she merely called the second class in grammar, and resumed the lessons.

When school was over, and all the other girls had gone, Anna Maria lifted her head, and exclaimed,
"Oh, teacher, teacher, I can't stand it! Do let me take that hateful bag away!"

"No, my dear," said Miss Matilda, gently. "For three months you have disturbed the entire school
with your perpetual chatter, and now for three months that bag is to hang over your desk. If
by the end of that time you have learned to control your tongue, the bag shall be removed--not
otherwise."

But it was strange to see how the three months changed her. Miss Matilda never again needed
to say one word to her about talking: one glance at the bag was more efficacious than a dozen
scoldings had been formerly.

Moreover, when her grandmother met her teacher, she said, "Oh, Miss Matilda, how Anna Maria
has improved of late! She used to be such a terrible chatter-box; we sent her to school when
she was only three years old, because we could not endure the noise of her tongue, but now
she is growing so pleasant and sensible that we all enjoy her company."

THE WAYWARD DONKEY.

BY W. H. BEARD.

There was once a little donkey who gave his poor mother no end of trouble, he was so stubborn,
unreasonable, exacting, and dreadfully saucy. Why, when angry, he didn't hesitate at all to
call his mother an old donkey, right out. One day, when crossed in some particularly absurd
desire, he declared he would run away. Immediately putting his threat into execution, off he
trotted, heedless of his poor fond mother's entreaties. Away he went, sustained at first by
his temper and pride.

But as the day wore on, he became weary, faint, and hungry. The matter of food and shelter
became a question of serious alarm, and how to obtain them was a problem too great for his
little donkey brain to solve. He now remembered that he had never had to trouble himself with
all this before, all the needs and comforts of life having been provided for him without thought
or care on his part.

The land over which he was travelling was quite poor, and only afforded a few little stunted
thistles, which seemed to consist more of prickers than anything else, which pierced his tender
little nose, and made it bleed. He saw plenty of oats and other grains, as well as nice vegetables,
growing in fields, but so well guarded by high fences that he could not hope to get at them.
Many times, when hunger and fatigue had subdued his pride, would he have returned home; but
he had wandered so far that he had not the least idea which way he had come. To add to his
distress, he saw the sun was fast declining. Already he felt the chills of evening. But there
was no use bemoaning his fate, and he must make the best of it.

At length, too weary to travel farther, he was forced to lie down to rest, and selected for
the purpose an unfenced overgrown piece of ground of considerable extent. Here, as he lay among
the weeds, nothing was visible of him above their tops but his two ears, which might easily
have been taken for two stakes, or the roots of an upturned stump. As he lay shivering in the
damp grass, he felt anything but comfortable. The sun went down, the moon arose and shed a
cold light over the face of nature, which made him feel lonely indeed.

Suddenly there appeared above the grass several other pairs of ears, bobbing about, quite like
his own. The sight thrilled him with something akin to pleasure, for he asked himself, "To
whom can such ears belong but to little donkeys? and if young donkeys are around, they must
have mothers, or a mother, near by, who, no doubt, would be very glad to adopt such a fine
specimen of the race as I." The reader has already seen that he was a conceited little donkey.

So saying, he arose quickly to his feet; the others stood up also, though not as he did on
their four feet, but on their hind-legs--that is to say, they stood up on their haunches--and
looked at him in blank amazement; but as he approached them they bounded away so fast that
it was useless to try to overtake them. When he stood still, they also stopped, and again stood
upon their haunches, and peered at him over the tops of the weeds. Master Donkey did not try
again to go to them, but expostulated with them upon their ill-breeding and unkind behavior,
called them cousins, told them he was tired and hungry, and asked for food and shelter. This
touched their tender little hearts, and they cautiously drew near, and made the acquaintance
of their supposed cousin.

On a close scrutiny, however, they doubted his claim to relationship, and flatly told him so.
But they good-naturedly said if he was hungry, it was no more than common humanity to first
relieve his wants, and discuss the question afterward. Even murderous man would do as much
as that, so they brought him carrots and other vegetables in abundance from a farm garden near
by, from which they were accustomed to supply their own wants.

When his appetite was satisfied, his humility, such as it was, oozed out, and he became as
arrogant as ever, and stoutly claimed that he was their big cousin, though, he said, he was
not particularly anxious to be acknowledged by such a pack of little dwarfish thieving creatures
as they were, who would steal through the farmer's fence to purloin vegetables for a cousin
whom they impudently refused to recognize.

Their spokesman retorted, and said they claimed a right to a share, sufficient for their needs,
of whatever grew upon the earth. To be sure, they were obliged to obtain it stealthily at night,
as man claimed it all for himself, and it would be almost certain death to be found by him
within his inclosure. Indeed, many of their unfortunate fellows had already suffered death
for the exercise of this natural right. If, however, he regarded their act as a crime, he was
himself a criminal, inasmuch as he had accepted the fruits, and profited by the act, knowing
how the food had been obtained. To this the donkey could make no answer; at least he did not
think it prudent to try, as night was still before him, and the question of shelter still unsolved.

Good-nature was soon restored, and the discussion renewed. The rabbits could see many points
of difference, but two only of resemblance. It certainly could not be denied that the ears
were remarkably like, and the complexion was very nearly the same; but the hard feet were so
widely different from their own soft paws! And the tail, too, long and dangling like a cow's--what
a tail for a rabbit! Then, again, they had observed that he stood while eating, whereas a true
rabbit always crouched comfortably near the ground while taking his food. In the matter of
voice, too, they flattered themselves there was a wide difference. However, all this might
be changed or improved by judicious training, except the feet. The hoofs they despaired of.
The tail they proposed to nibble off at a proper length from the body. This operation the donkey
positively refused to submit to, but finally consented to hold his tail up over his back as
much like a rabbit as possible, and, moreover, would at once set about his lessons to learn
their ways, so that he might the sooner adapt himself to their habits, and become one of them.

Accordingly, one of the cleverest of their number was charged with his instruction, and immediately
began with the important art of sitting on the haunches with his tail curled up upon his back.
In this, though he strained every nerve to perform it, he made an ignominious failure. He could
only maintain the position for a moment, and then pitch forward or fall backward, seeming to
rock over on his curved tail, and cutting such a ridiculous figure that it made all the rabbits
laugh. This made him very angry, and he began to use his heels in a most vigorous and unrabbitlike
manner. All ran for their lives, but not all escaped unhurt. The "spraggly" forms of two or
three of those nearest to him showed dark against the moon-lit sky before they limped off,
and, joining their fellows, gathered in a little knot at a distance from their fractious pupil,
and discussed his merits with great freedom. They voted him an ill-natured brute, a stupid
dolt--in short, a perfect donkey. Scarcely had they arrived at this unanimous conclusion, when--pop!
pop! bang! bang!--four loud reports, and four little rabbits lay in the agonies of death.

The farmer and his son, seeing by the moonlight strange movements in the field, had stolen
upon them, in the unguarded moment of their excitement, with their double-barrelled guns, and,
as the boy expressed it, bagged four rabbits and a donkey; for poor little donkey stood paralyzed
with fear. He had never looked upon death before, and was an easy captive. Without troubling
himself to inquire who the rightful owner was, the farmer took him for his own, housed him
that night in a stall by himself, where he passed almost the entire night, notwithstanding
the fatigues of the day, in such reflections as he was capable of; and though he grew up to
be a great donkey, to be sure, the lessons of that day were never forgotten by him.

  ROCK ISLAND ARSENAL, ILLINOIS.

     I thought you would like to know how spring advances in this part
     of the country. There are a great many snowy little bloodroots in
     the woods on the island already (April 22), the mandrakes are
     coming up, and the spring beauties are in bloom. The snakes are
     here also, for a friend of mine and I saw a little garter-snake in
     the woods the other day. It hissed at us in a vicious little way.
     Yesterday I saw some pretty butterflies flitting about, and there
     are numerous graceful dragon-flies in the air. Last Sunday, just
     after a thunder-storm, I was on the front porch, and I saw about
     eighteen worms, most of them of a kind that is called
     "hundred-legs," but there were a few of another kind. They were
     crawling up on the porch to get out of the wet. The robins,
     bluebirds, cat-birds, woodpeckers, blackbirds, and others are
     here. This spring some of the gulls from the great lakes were
     fishing on the river. In YOUNG PEOPLE No. 24 Arthur L. H. wrote
     about his caterpillar that turned into a butterfly, and I thought
     he might like to hear about ours. My brother found a caterpillar
     that had different-colored cross-bands on it, like a Roman sash.
     He brought it home, and we fed it on leaves till it made a
     beautiful cocoon of a thin veil-like material of a pale sea-green
     color, with a line and a few dots of gold on it near the middle.
     We expected from all this that it would be a very remarkable
     butterfly; but it was only one of the common large brown
     butterflies that we see almost every day in summer.

  BESSY F.

       *       *       *       *       *

  WOLVERTON, ENGLAND.

     I am seven years old. My grandpa and grandma live in Canada, and
     send me YOUNG PEOPLE. We have a donkey and panniers. My baby
     brother and sister ride in the panniers, and my other brother and
     I take turns in riding on the donkey's back. We call the donkey
     Jinny. I went on a visit to Canada when I was two years old. I
     would like to go again.

  NONIE J.

       *       *       *       *       *

  CANONSBURG, PENNSYLVANIA.

     I enjoy reading the letters in the Post-office Box very much. In
     No. 24 a little girl asks for some cooking recipes. I will send
     her a recipe for a very nice doll's cup-cake. My little sister and
     I make it often. We made it once when grandpa came to see us, and
     he liked it so much that he had to be helped twice. This is the
     recipe: One doll's cup of butter; two of sugar; three of flour;
     one of sweet milk; one egg; a few scrapings of nutmeg; one
     salt-spoonful of baking powder. When well mixed, put it into a
     buttered pan. When it draws away from the side of the pan, it is
     done.

  BESSIE L. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

  STUYVESANT SQUARE, NEW YORK CITY.

     Some other girls and myself have formed a Wiggle Club. We are
     going to get some papers printed with the heading, "Stuyvesant
     Square Wiggle Club," on which we will all send in our Wiggles, and
     we are going to have prizes for the best. The one of our Wiggles
     that is published in YOUNG PEOPLE will take the prize. We can not
     draw very well yet, but we will try to improve, and to be the
     champions. Our names are Bertha, Toonie, Sarah, Nonie, Blanche.

Unfortunately your drawings of Wiggle No. 10 came too late to be engraved. Your ideas were
all excellent. In YOUNG PEOPLE No. 27 we gave you a new Wiggle, which you can practice upon,
and send us what you make of it. The plan of your club is good, as it will afford you much
amusement, and at the same time give you good exercise in drawing.

       *       *       *       *       *

  DIXON, ILLINOIS.

     I like YOUNG PEOPLE very much. I can read the children's letters,
     and I thought I would write myself. I have got a great family of
     dolls--thirteen in all--and I like to look at the picture, on the
     first page of YOUNG PEOPLE No. 7, of the two little girls and the
     basket of dolls. My black cat is named Hippopotamus, but I call
     him Pot for short. My papa at Christmas-time was dressed up like
     Santa Claus, and brought us a bagful of presents. I did not know
     it was papa till weeks afterward. I am seven years old.

  MARY H.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BROOKLYN, NEW YORK.

     I wonder if any of the readers of YOUNG PEOPLE have ever seen a
     tarantula. It is a large hairy spider that lives in the tropics,
     and its bite is very poisonous. I had one, with its nest. The nest
     is made in clay, and is long, like a tube. It is closed by a
     trap-door, and is a skillful piece of workmanship.

  A. R. J.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BRANDON, WISCONSIN.

     My father and brother commenced seeding the 14th of April, as it
     had been very warm for several days. The morning of April 16 the
     ground was covered with snow, and it continued snowing hard all
     day.

  FLORENCE.

       *       *       *       *       *

  FORT WAYNE, INDIANA.

     The other night I took my round in the chicken coop to see that
     all the chickens were in. Three little chicks, four weeks old,
     deserted by their mother, were just coming in. They jumped on the
     first roosting lath, and then on the second, and began to walk
     toward the rooster. One little chap jumped on his back, and the
     two others crept under his wings. What surprised me most was that
     the rooster took it very kindly, and has allowed the chicks to
     continue their tricks every night.

  WALTER C.

       *       *       *       *       *

  ROCHESTER, NEW YORK.

     I have a little kitty that we took with us to the beach last
     summer. When we went out rowing, she used to come with us in the
     boat, and if she didn't like it, she would jump into the water and
     swim ashore. When we walked up the beach for shells, she would
     always follow us, even if we went two or three miles. I am eleven
     years old, and my name is

  WINIFRED B.

       *       *       *       *       *

  SALINA, KANSAS.

     We have had such hard winds in Kansas this spring that the air
     would be so filled with thick clouds of dust and sand that we
     could not see a square away for hours at a time, and the air
     seemed charged with electricity. They were called electric storms,
     and the telegraph operators could hardly use their batteries at
     all. Can any one tell me what caused the electricity?

  CHARLEY H. G.

       *       *       *       *       *

  DALLAS, PENNSYLVANIA.

     I am a lame boy, and can not go to school. I have been taking
     music lessons, and I can play on the piano and the organ. Papa and
     mamma are going to send me to the Conservatory of Music. I am
     eleven years old.

  WILLIE H. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BELLE PLAINE, IOWA.

     We have just found some buttercups for the first time this spring
     (April 15). I want to tell you about my pets. I have a dog named
     Watch, and I love him ever so much. He is black and white. We have
     a red and white calf. It butted me once, but I like it all the
     same.

  ARTIE F.

       *       *       *       *       *

  YARMOUTH, NOVA SCOTIA.

     I am eight years old. Papa takes YOUNG PEOPLE for me, and I am
     going to have it bound as mamma has her BAZAR. She did not have it
     bound last year, for she sent it to Edinburgh to my aunt Annie. I
     go to school every day, and like to go. One of our large
     school-houses was burned down the other night. It cost about nine
     thousand dollars, and nearly three hundred children went to school
     there. We had a spelling match at my school just before Christmas,
     and I beat. We have a mare named Nell, and a cow named Maud. We
     had a pig named Aubrey Percival, but now we call him Pork.

  CHARLIE P.

       *       *       *       *       *

  ST. JOHNS, MICHIGAN.

     I am seven years old. Yesterday (April 14) I saw a butterfly in
     our yard. It was a blue-black with light spots. I tried to catch
     it, but couldn't. The same day I saw a bumble-bee. I have a
     shepherd dog named Punch, and when I go anywhere, he always
     squeals to go too. He is my best playmate, as I have no brothers
     or sisters. I think the Post-office Box in YOUNG PEOPLE is very
     interesting.

  ROBERT E. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

  NEVADA, MISSOURI.

     My father is a harness-maker, and I help him morning and evening,
     before and after school, and at night I read YOUNG PEOPLE. I saw
     in No. 24 a little letter from Joseph D. asking how to tame wild
     rabbits. My brother was out hunting one day, and his dog caught a
     rabbit by the leg. The leg was broken, so my brother took some
     pine splinters and cut them into pieces about two inches long and
     a quarter of an inch wide, and bound them round the leg, and it
     got well. He tamed the rabbit by reaching his hand into the cage
     where he kept it, and rubbing it gently. It soon became so tame it
     would eat out of his hand.

  J. L. G. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BROOKLYN, NEW YORK.

     I read a letter in YOUNG PEOPLE No. 13 from a boy who hatched a
     little chicken by putting the egg in ashes. I wish he would tell
     me how he kept the egg warm.

  NETTIE M. T.

       *       *       *       *       *

  SCRANTON, PENNSYLVANIA.

     I have a recipe for Puss Hunter's cooking club: One cup of
     molasses; three-quarters of a cup of sugar; one-quarter of a cup
     of butter; four tea-spoonfuls of vinegar; a little vanilla. It
     makes very nice candy. I have tried the recipe very often, and
     have never known it to fail. I would like to be a member of the
     cooking club.

  R. C. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

  HANESVILLE, MARYLAND.

     My papa takes YOUNG PEOPLE for us children, and I am very much
     interested in the stories, especially in "Across the Ocean." My
     brother likes to sing "I am the lad in the blue and white." I like
     to go to school. We are going to have a picnic in May, and are
     learning pretty pieces to sing and speak. I expect we will have a
     fine time; and if any of the young correspondents of Our
     Post-office Box would like to hear about it, I will write and tell
     them what kind of a time we really do have.

  ELSIE J. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

  HOHEN SOLMS, LOUISIANA.

     I am a little Southern girl. My father is a sugar-planter, and we
     have a nice home on the banks of the Mississippi River. We have a
     very fine pointer. In reply to the question of Joseph D. in No. 24
     about taming wild rabbits, I will say that he must put them in a
     cage, not too small, and feed and pet them every day.

  M. A. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

  GREENFIELD, ILLINOIS.

     I have a coach-dog named Beauty. When I play a French harp, she
     will cry and act very sad. She comes and lays her head in my lap,
     and seems to wish me to keep on playing. I can not tell whether
     she likes music or not, but she always howls when I play. I have a
     dear little brother named Lynn, a year and a half old. He kisses
     me good-by every morning when I go to school. I am nearly ten
     years old.

  JESSE L. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

  ORODELFAN, COLORADO.

     I thought I would tell you how much I like to have them hand me my
     paper at the post-office. My brother subscribed for it for me. I
     live in the Rocky Mountains. We own one-half interest in a gold
     and silver mine. We came here for my mother's health. She was very
     sick, and now she is well. I can have all the specimens from the
     mine that I wish for.

  E. PALMER G.

       *       *       *       *       *

  ELWOOD, ILLINOIS.

     In the piece about Easy Botany in No. 24, YOUNG PEOPLE, I read
     that bloodroot grows in New England. It grows out here in Illinois
     too, and I found some a few days ago. We have a pet dog named
     Maria. She runs after the chickens and pigs.

  LILLIE MACC.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BELOIT, WISCONSIN.

     I thought I would write to you about gophers. The gopher is a
     little animal which lives in the ground. It digs a hole about two
     feet deep, and it eats corn and other grain. Gophers destroy so
     many crops that the farmers do not like them, and they pay boys
     for killing them. I earned forty-eight cents last year killing
     gophers. I would take a club and a pail of water, and go to their
     holes. When I poured in some water, they would run out, and I
     would kill them with the club.

  ARTHUR N. T.

The gopher, or Canada pouched rat, is a very remarkable burrower, as it will dig under-ground
passages extending in lateral galleries in all directions. It is difficult to capture, as it
keeps open a means of escape on every side. The mischief done by this creature is very extensive.
It delights to burrow among the roots of fruit trees, which it gnaws, until often a large tree
dies from the under-ground attacks of this troublesome animal.

       *       *       *       *       *

E. A. C.--It is impossible for us to comply with your request.

       *       *       *       *       *

W. B. B.--Flowers are beautiful pets, and repay well the attention bestowed upon them. The
large plant, with its wide-spreading bluish-green leaves, which bears the castor-bean, is raised
from the seed, like any other bean. It is an annual, but it grows so rapidly that by midsummer
it is already several feet high. In some countries this plant is called palm-of-Christ, and
is much valued as a garden ornament, as its pale green leaves form a beautiful contrast when
growing among masses of dark shrubbery.

       *       *       *       *       *

ADDIE P.--Your beautiful wild flower was so faded and crushed when it reached us that it was
impossible to identify it.

       *       *       *       *       *

G. H. FISHER and "NUCTUM."--In an article soon to be published in YOUNG PEOPLE you will find
all your questions fully answered.

       *       *       *       *       *

"SUBSCRIBER," BROOKLYN.--For directions for preserving insects, see answer to Katie R. P.,
Post-office Box, No. 27.

       *       *       *       *       *

MARIE S.--Ocean Grove, Squan, or Seagirt, New Jersey; Vineyard Grove, Dukes County, Massachusetts;
and many places along the New England coast.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHELTON A. H.--Turtles should have a big tub of earth in which to bury themselves in the winter.
Or if they are let loose in a yard, they will take care of themselves, and appear again in
the spring. Read the answer to Lyman C. in Post-office Box, No. 5, where you will find full
directions for the care of turtles.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARLIE W. M.--Your charade is gracefully made, but too personal to be printed in YOUNG PEOPLE.
Thanks for your pretty compliments.

       *       *       *       *       *

