It would repay some capable author to dig him up, wash him, and show him to the world as he
was. A biography of him would embrace the history of the struggle which established the new
theory of politics in government. He is the representative man of Democracy in both hemispheres,--a
good subject in the hands of a competent artist; and the time has arrived, we think, when justice
may be done him. As a general rule, it is yet too soon to write the History of the United States
since 1784. Half a century has not been sufficient to wear out the bitter feeling excited by
the long struggle of Democrats and Federalists. Respectable gentlemen, who, more pious than
Aeneas, have undertaken to carry their grandfathers' remains from the ruins of the past into
the present era, seem to be possessed with the same demon of discord that agitated the deceased
ancestors. The quarrels of the first twenty years of the Constitution have become chronic ink-feuds
in certain families. A literary vendetta is carried on to this day, and a stab with the steel
pen, or a shot from behind the safe cover of a periodical, is certain to be received by any
one of them who offers to his enemy the glorious opportunity of a book. Where so much temper
exists, impartial history is out of the question.

Our authors, too, as a general rule, have inherited the political jargon of the last century,
and abound in "destiny of humanity," "inalienable rights," "virtue of the sovereign people,"
"base and bloody despots," and all that sort of phrase, earnest and real enough once, but little
better than cant and twaddle now. They seem to take it for granted that the question is settled,
the rights of man accurately defined, the true and only theory of government found,--and that
he who doubts is blinded by aristocratic prejudice or is a fool. We must say, nevertheless,
that Father Time has not yet had years enough to answer the great question of governing which
was proposed to him in 1789. Some of the developments of our day may well make us doubt whether
the last and perfect form, or even theory, is the one we have chosen. "Les monarchies absolues
avaient deshonoré le despotisme: prenons garde que les républiques démocratiques ne le réhabilitent."
But Paine's part in the history of this country after 1783 is of so small importance, that
in a life of him all such considerations may be safely waived. The democratic movement of the
last eighty years, be it a "finality," or only a phase of progress towards a more perfect state,
is the grand historical fact of modern times, and Paine's name is intimately connected with
it. One is always ready to look with lenity on the partiality of a biographer,--whether he
urge the claims of his hero to a niche in the Valhalla of great men, or act as the Advocatus
Diaboli to degrade his memory.

OF BOOKS AND THE READING THEREOF.

BEING A THIRD LETTER FROM PAUL POTTER, OF NEW YORK, IN THE CITY AND COUNTY OF NEW YORK, ESQ.,
TO THE DON ROBERTO WAGONERO, OF WASHINGTON, olim, BUT nunc OF NOWHEREINPARTICULAR.

If any person, O my Bobus, had foretold that all these months would go by before I should again
address you, he would have exhibited prescient talent great enough to establish twenty "mediums"
in a flourishing cabalistic business. Alas! they have been to me months of fathomless distress,
immensurate and immeasurable sorrow, and blank, blind, idiotic indifference, even to books
and friends, which, next to the nearest and dearest, are the world's most priceless possession.
But now that I have a little thrown off the stupor, now that kindly Time has a little balmed
my cruel wounds, I come back to my books and to you,--to the animi remissionem of Cicero,--to
these gentle sympathizers and faithful solacements,--to old studies and ancient pursuits. There
is a Latin line, I know not whose, but Swift was fond of quoting it,--

  "Vertiginosus, inops, surdus, male gratus amicis,"--

which I have whispered to myself, with prophetic lips, in the long, long watches of my lonesome
nights. Do you remember--but who that has read it does not?--that affecting letter, written
upon the death of his wife, by Sir James Mackintosh to Dr. Parr? I lost her, alas! (the choice
of my youth, and the partner of my misfortunes,) at a moment when I had the prospect of her
sharing my better days."

But if I am getting old, although perhaps prematurely, I must be casting about for the subsidia
senectuti. Swift wrote to Gay, that these were "two or three servants about you and a convenient
house"; justly observing, that, "when a man grows hard to please, few people care whether he
be pleased or no"; and adding, sadly enough, "I should hardly prevail to find one visitor,
if I were not able to hire him with a bottle of wine"; and so the sorrowful epistle concludes
with the sharpest grief of all: "My female friends, who could bear with me very well a dozen
years ago, have now forsaken me." It is odd that Montaigne should have hit upon the wine also
as among the subsidia senectuti; although the sage Michael complains, as you will remember,
that old men do not relish their wine, or at least the first glass, because "the palate is
furred with phlegms." But I care little either for the liquor or the lackeys, and not much,
I fear, at present, for "the female friends." I have, then, nothing left for it but to take
violently to books; for I doubt not I shall find almost any house convenient, and I am sure
of one at last which I can claim by a title not to be disturbed by all the precedents of Cruise,
and in which no mortal shall have a contingent remainder.

To books, then, I betake myself,--to books, "the immortal children" of "the understanding,
courage, and abilities" of the wise and good,--ay! and to inane, drivelling, doting books,
the bastard progeny of vanity and ignorance,--books over which one dawdles in an amusing dream
and pleasant spasm of amazement, and which teach us wisdom as tipsy Helots taught the Spartan
boys sobriety. Montaigne "never travelled without books, either in peace or war"; and as I
found them pleasant in happier days, so I find them pleasant now. Of course, much of this omnivorous
reading is from habit, and, invitâ Minervâ, cannot be dignified by the name of study,--that
stiff, steady, persistent, uncompromising application of the mind, by virtue of which alone
the Pons Asinorum can be crossed, and the Forty-Seventh Problem of Euclid--which I entirely
disbelieve--mastered.

I own to a prodigious respect, entertained since my Sophomore year at the University, for those
collegiate youth whose terribly hard study of Bourdon and Legendre seems to have such a mollifying
effect upon their heads,--but, as the tradesmen say, that thing is "not in my line." I would
rather have a bundle of bad verses which have been consigned to the pastry-cook. I suppose--for
I have been told so upon good authority --that, if "equals be taken from equals, the remainders
are equal." I do not see why they should not be, and, as a citizen of the United States of
America, the axiom seems to me to be entitled to respect. When a youthful person, with a piece
of chalk in his hand, before commencing his artistic and scientific achievements upon the black-board,
says: "Let it be granted that a straight line may be drawn from any one point to any other
point," I invariably answer, "Of course,--by all manner of means,"--although you know, dear
Don, that, if I should put him upon mathematical proof of the postulate, I might bother him
hugely. Then, there is Butler's "Analogy"; an excellent work it is, I have been told,--a charming
work to master,--quite a bulwark of our faith; but as, in my growing days, it was explained
to me, or rather was not explained, before breakfast, by a truculent Doctor of Divinity, whom
I knew to be ugly and felt to be great, of course, the good Bishop and I are not upon the best
of terms.

I suppose that for drilling, training, and pipe-claying the human mind all these things are
necessary. I suppose, that, in our callow days, it is proper that we should be birched and
wear fetters upon our little, bandy, sausage-like legs. But let me, now that I have come to
man's estate, flout my old pedagogues, and, playing truant at my will, dawdle or labor, walk,
skip, or run, go to my middle in quagmires, or climb to the hill-tops, take liberties with
the venerable, snub the respectable, and keep the company of the disreputable,--dismiss the
Archbishop without reading his homily,--pass by a folio in twenty grenadier volumes to greet
a little black-coated, yellow-faced duodecimo,--speak to the forlorn and forsaken, who have
been doing dusty penance upon cloistered shelves in silent alcoves for a century, with none
so poor to do them reverence,--read here one little catch which came from lips long ago as
silent as the clod which they are kissing, and there some forgotten fragment of history, too
insignificant to make its way into the world's magnificent chronologies,--snapping up unconsidered
trifles of anecdote,--tasting some long-interred bon-mot and relishing some disentombed scandal,--pausing
over the symphonic prose of Milton, only to run, the next moment, to the Silenian ribaldry
of Tom Brown the younger,--and so keeping up a Saturnalia, in which goat-footed sylvans mix
with the maidens of Diana, and the party-colored jester shakes his truncheon in the face of
Plato. Only in this wild and promiscuous license can we taste the genuine joys of true perusal.

I suppose, my dear friend, that, when you were younger and foolisher than you now are, you
were wont, after the reading of some dismal work upon diet and health, to take long, constitutional
walks. You "toddled"--pardon the vulgar word!--so many miles out and so many miles in, at just
such a pace, in just the prescribed time, during hours fixed as the Fates; and you wondered,
when you came home to your Graham bread and cold water, that you did not bring an appetite
with you. You had performed incredible pedestrian achievements, and were not hungry, but simply
weary. It is of small use to try to be good with malice prepense. Nature is nothing, if not
natural. If I am to read to any purpose, I must read with a relish, and browse at will with
the bridle off. Sometimes I go into a library, the slow accretion of a couple of centuries,
or perhaps the mushroom growth from a rich man's grave, a great collection magically convoked
by the talisman of gold. At the threshold, as I ardently enter, the flaming sword of regulation
is waving. Between me and the inviting shelves are fences of woven iron; the bibliographic
Cerberus is at his sentryship; when I want a full draught, I must be content with driblets;
and the impatient messengers are sworn to bring me only a single volume at a time. To read
in such a hampered and limited way is not to read at all; and I go back, after the first fret
and worry are over, to the little collection upon my garret-shelf, to greet again the old familiar
pages. I leave the main army behind,--"the lordly band of mighty folios," "the well-ordered
ranks of the quartos," "the light octavos," and "humbler duodecimos," for

  "The last new play, and frittered magazine,"--

for the sutlers and camp-followers, "pioneers and all," of the grand army,--for the prizes,
dirty, but curious, rescued from the street-stall, or unearthed in a Nassau-Street cellar,--for
the books which I thumbed and dogs-eared in my youth.

I have, in my collection, a little Divinity, consisting mostly of quaint Quaker books bequeathed
to me by my grandmother,--a little Philosophy, a little Physic, a little Law, a little History,
a little Fiction, and a deal of Nondescript stuff. Once, when the res angusta domi had become
angustissima, a child of Israel was, in my sore estate, summoned to inspect the dear, shabby
colony, and to make his sordid aureat or argent bid therefor. Well do I remember how his nose,
which he could not, if his worthless life had depended upon it, render retroussé, grew sublimely
curvilinear in its contempt, as his hawk-eyes estimated my pitiful family. I will not name
the sum which he offered, the ghoul, the vampire, the anthropophagous jackal, the sneaking
would-be incendiary of my little Alexandrian, the circumcised Goth! He left me, like Churchill's
Scotch lassie, "pleased, but hungry"; and I found, as Valentine did in Congreve's "Love for
Love," "a page doubled down in Epictetus which was a feast for an emperor."

I own, my excellent Robert, that a bad book is, to my taste, sometimes vastly more refreshing
than a good one. I do not wonder that Crabbe, after he had so sadly failed in his medical studies,
should have anathematized the medical writers in this fine passage:--

  "Ye frigid tribe, on whom I waited long
  The tedious hours, and ne'er indulged in song!
  Ye first seducers of my easy heart,
  Who promised knowledge ye could not impart!
  Ye dull deluders, Truth's destructive foes!
  Ye Sons of Fiction, clad in stupid prose!
  Ye treacherous leaders, who, yourselves in doubt,
  Light up false fires, and send us far about!--
  Still may yon spider round your pages spin,
  Subtle and slow, her emblematic gin!
  Buried in dust and lost in silence dwell!
  Most potent, grave, and reverend friends,--farewell!"

I acknowledge the vigor of these lines, which nobody could have written who had not been compelled,
in the sunny summer-days, to bray drugs in a mortar. Yet who does not like to read a medical
book?--to pore over its jargon, to muddle himself into a hypo, and to imagine himself afflicted
with the dreadful disease with the long Latin name, the meaning of which he does not by any
means comprehend? And did not the poems of our friend Bavius Blunderbore, Esq., which were
of "a low and moderate sort," cause you to giggle yourself wellnigh into an asphyxy,--calf
and coxcomb as he was? Is not ----'s last novel a better antidote against melancholy, stupendously
absurd as it is, than foalfoot or plantain, featherfew or savin, agrimony or saxifrage, or
any other herb in old Robert Burton's pharmacopoeia? I am afraid that we are a little wanting
in gratitude, when we shake our sides at the flaying of Marsyas by some Quarterly of Apollo,--to
the dis-cuticlcd, I mean. If he had not piped so stridently, we should not have had half so
much sport; yet small largess does the miserable minstrel get for tooting tunelessly. Let us
honor the brave who fall in the battle of print. 'Twas a noble ambition, after all, which caused
our asinine friend to cloak himself in that cast leonine skin. Who would be always reciting
from a hornbook to Mistress Minerva? What, I pray you, would become of the corn, if there were
no scarecrows? All honor to you, then, my looped and windowed sentinel, standing upon the slope
of Parnassus,--standing so patiently there, with your straw bowels, doing yeoman-service, spite
of the flouts and gibes and cocked thumbs of Zoïlus and his sneering, snarling, verjuicy, captious
crew,--standing there, as stood the saline helpmate of Lot, to fright our young men and virgins
from the primrose-pitfalls of Poesy,--standing there to warn them against the seductions of
Phoebus, and to teach them that it is better to hoe than to hum!

