A correspondent wishes to be informed of the definition of the word avver. In the 15th volume
of the "Beauties of England and Wales," it is alluded to thus:--"This county (Westmoreland)
being supposed unfavourable to the growth of wheat, black oats, called haver, and the species
of barley called bere, or bigg, were the only grains it produced. Of the haver, bread was made,
or the species of pottage called hasty pudding; this bread being made into thin unleavened
cakes, and laid up in chests within the influence of the fire, has the quality of preserving
its sweetness for several months; it is still in common use. The bigg was chiefly made into
malt, and each family brewed its own ale; during the hay harvest the women drank a pleasant
sharp beverage, made by infusing mint or sage buttermilk in whey, and hence called whey-whig.
Wheaten bread was used on particular occasions; small loaves of it were given to persons invited
to funerals, which they were expected "to take and eat" at home, in religious remembrance of
their deceased neighbour; a custom, the prototype of which is evidently seen in the establishment
of the eucharist, for in this county it still bears its Saxon name, Arvel bread, from appull,
full of reverence, meaning the holy bread used at the communion."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH-BOOK.

       *       *       *       *       *

BATTLE OF QUATRE BRAS.

Gray, as one of the party of dragoons who attended the Duke of Wellington, proceeded onward
at a sharp pace through the marching columns, which his grace examined, with a close but quick
glance, as he passed on, and after a march of seven leagues, came up with the Belgian troops
under the Prince of Orange, who had been attacked and pushed back by the French. It was about
seven o'clock; none of the British troops had yet arrived within some hours' march of the duke.
The party of dragoons were ordered to remain in readiness for duty in a cornfield near the
road, on a rising ground, which commanded a full view of the country in front, while the duke
and his staff proceeded to the left.

The four biscuits which had been served out to each man at Brussels the night before, with
some cold beef, and the contents of their canteen, helped to regale the dragoons after their
long and rapid march, while the stout steeds that had borne them found a delightful repast
in the high rye that waved under their noses. Here they beheld passing on the road beside them
many wounded Belgians, and could see before them, at the distance of a quarter of a mile, the
French bayonets glistening over the high fields of corn, and hear distinctly the occasional
discharges of musketry from tirailleurs. Gray's heart leaped with joy, and he thought no more
of Brussels.

"What's this place called?" inquired one of the dragoons, generally of his comrades.

"Called!--Oh, some jaw-breaking Dutch name of a yard long, I suppose," replied another. "Ax
Gentleman Gray--he'll tell you."

"Well, Mr. Gray, do you know the name of this here place?"

"I believe," replied Gray, "we are near a point called Quatre Bras, or the four roads."

"Well," rejoined the other, "if there were half-a-dozen roads, it wouldn't be too much for
these here Flemingers--yon road's not wide enough for them, you see. Look, here's a regiment
o' them coming back!"

"Ah! poor fellows--we might be in the same situation," observed Gray; "remember that their
force is not strong in comparison with the French, by the accounts that have been received;
better to fall back at the first of a fight than at the last."

"I say, Jack," said another, with his mouth full of biscuit, "did you ever meet with such a
devil of a roadster as the carpolar there with the glazed cocked hat?"

"Who do you mean?" said Jack.

"Why the dook, to be sure--how he did give it us on the long road through the forest."

"Ay--he's the lad; well, here's God bless his jolly old glazed hat any way," cried the trooper,
swallowing a horn of grog; "he's the boy what has come from the Peninsula just to gi' 'em a
leaf out of his book. He was a dancing last night--riding like a devil all the morning--and
I'll warrant he'll be fighting all the afternoon by way of refreshing himself."

"He look'd serious enough this morning though, Master Tom, as he was turning out."

"Serious! and so did you; hasn't he enough to make him look serious? Bony, and all the flower
of the French before him. I like to see him look serious; he's just a thinking a bit, that's
all. Look, look, look! where he is now pelting away up the hill there. My eye! but he's a rum on'."

"Ay, just as he was in the ould ground," cried an Hibernian. "'Pon my sowl, I think I'm in
Spain agin. There he is, success to him!--an' the smell o' the powther too so natural."

"The light troops are pushing on towards that wood," said Gray, fixing his eyes on a particular
spot.

"Sure enough they are. Ah! we'll soon have the boys up who will set them off with a flea in
their ear."

"Look--on the rising ground there, about half a mile away, how they are moving about--that
is a train of artillery--see the guns--there is a regiment of infantry going to the left--do
you see their bayonets? A fine open place here for a battle."

"Not so good as that which we passed--the plain fields we crossed immediately after we left
the forest of Soignes," said Gray: "however, that little wood on our right, in front, which
runs along the road, is a good flank, and the village before us is a strong point."

"Ay, but you see the Belgian troops couldn't keep it; the French have pushed them out of it."

"We'll soon have it again, I'll warrant; our men have a fine open ground here, to give the
French a lesson in dancing," cried the corporal of the party, throwing himself down on his
back in the corn. "Here I'll lie and rest myself; and I don't think I shall be disturb'd by
the buzzing of the blue flies! I'll have a snooze, until the Highlanders shall come up."

The party remained undisturbed, as the last speaker had intimated, until about half-past one
o'clock; nothing having been done in the way of attack by the French. During the interval,
Gray employed himself in watching closely the scene around him, and mentally discussing the
chances of the now inevitably approaching fight.

The hour of struggle was near--the pibroch burst upon the ears of the troopers, and up they
started.

"Here they come," cried one.--"Here they come," cried another--"the gallant 42nd; look at the
petticoat-devils, how they foot it along!"

All stood on the highest part of the ground, to witness the arrival of the troops, who were
now within a quarter of a mile of them on the main road. A hum arose. Belgian officers galloped
down the road, and across the fields in all directions; the duke was seen riding towards his
expected soldiers, and the scene was life at all points. The pibroch's sound grew louder; and
now the bands of the more distant regiments were heard; and the harmonious bugles of the rifle
corps, mingled their sounds with the others. The long red line of Britons is fully before the
sight, like a giant stream of blood on the ripe and mellow bosom of the earth. Picton is at
its head, and the duke greets the heroic partner of his glory. The first of the regiments passes
close to the troopers, and receives a cheer from them, which found a return in the relaxing
muscles of the hardy Scots.

"What corps is that?" inquired one of the group.

"The Royal Highlanders, the 42nd--don't you see they are turned up with blue and gold?" replied
another.

"And what's this with the yellow facings?"

"The old 92nd."

"And the other Scotch regiment, with the green and gold?"

