To a person accustomed to the appearance of the streets of London, or indeed of any other English
town, those of the interior of Paris will present considerable novelty of aspect. The extreme
narrowness, in the first place, of those in the more ancient parts of the city, and the great
height of the houses, with their windows in many cases fortified by bars of iron, would alone
give them an air of gloom and precaution, almost sufficient to impress the Englishman who walks
through them with the feeling that he has been transported, not only into another country,
but into another age. Even where these indications of the more ancient evils of Paris are not
visible, the general aspect of the town shows that it has not grown with the growth of a free
people, amongst whom the inequalities of rank have been softened down by respect to the comforts
of all classes. Under the ancient régime, which was in full activity half a century ago, there
were only two classes in Paris, the noblesse, and the bourgeoisie; and the latter, being driven
into the gutters by the carriage-wheels of their arrogant masters, went by the general name
of the canaille. Few of the streets even now have any side pavement for foot passengers--that
invaluable accommodation which gives such perfect security to the pedestrian even in our most
crowded and tumultuous thoroughfare. The causeway itself, on which walkers and drivers are
thus mingled together in confusion, is often most uneven and rugged. The stones of which it
is formed, about ten inches square, present each a convex surface, usually wet and slippery,
so that under the most favourable circumstances, walking in the streets of Paris is anything
but an agreeable exercise. Still farther to abridge the level space, the street is made to
incline from both sides towards the centre, in order to form there a sort of ditch, in which
flows a black and fetid stream. From the want of a proper system of drains, this receptacle
of filth is generally sufficiently replenished even in the driest weather, to keep the whole
street wet and dirty. Carriages, having usually one wheel in the midst of the kennel, dash
about the offensive puddle in all directions. But the principle of a clear middle way, such
as our English streets possess, is neglected in all the arrangements connected with those of
Paris. Even the lights, instead of being fixed on posts, as ours are, at the sides, are suspended
in the middle on ropes swung across, and having their opposite ends fastened to the walls of
the houses. It was these ropes which the mob, in the Revolution of 1789, were wont to make
use of as halters for their victims; whence their famous cry of á la lanterne, as they dragged
them along to execution.

The aspect of Paris by night, except in a few of the principal streets where gas has been very
partially introduced, is singularly gloomy. The darkness is occasionally relieved by the brilliancy
of a café; but in the more quiet parts of the town, particularly in the fashionable quarter
of the Faubourg St. Germain, it is almost impossible for the pedestrian to direct his steps
aright. It is quite evident that the arrangements of this capital have not been made for a
walking people. This evil, however, is fast disappearing. Numerous passages have been constructed,
within the last ten years, which are paved with flat stones, and brilliantly lighted; and the
active and pleasure-seeking population of Paris crowd to these attractive and convenient places,
to the Boulevards, or to the Palais-Royal, and leave the narrow and dirty streets principally
to the few who keep their own carriages, or to the many who hire public conveyances.