Twice in the course of the next day Secundra and the Master must have appeared to themselves
to have escaped; and twice they were circumvented.  The Master, save that the second time he
grew a little pale, displayed no sign of disappointment, apologised for the stupidity with
which he had fallen aside, thanked his recapturers as for a service, and rejoined the caravan
with all his usual gallantry and cheerfulness of mien and bearing.  But it is certain he had
smelled a rat; for from thenceforth he and Secundra spoke only in each other's ear, and Harris
listened and shivered by the tent in vain.  The same night it was announced they were to leave
the boats and proceed by foot, a circumstance which (as it put an end to the confusion of the
portages) greatly lessened the chances of escape.

And now there began between the two sides a silent contest, for life on the one hand, for riches
on the other.  They were now near that quarter of the desert in which the Master himself must
begin to play the part of guide; and using this for a pretext of persecution, Harris and his
men sat with him every night about the fire, and laboured to entrap him into some admission.
If he let slip his secret, he knew well it was the warrant for his death; on the other hand,
he durst not refuse their questions, and must appear to help them to the best of his capacity,
or he practically published his mistrust.  And yet Mountain assures me the man's brow was never
ruffled.  He sat in the midst of these jackals, his life depending by a thread, like some easy,
witty householder at home by his own fire; an answer he had for everything - as often as not,
a jesting answer; avoided threats, evaded insults; talked, laughed, and listened with an open
countenance; and, in short, conducted himself in such a manner as must have disarmed suspicion,
and went near to stagger knowledge.  Indeed, Mountain confessed to me they would soon have
disbelieved the Captain's story, and supposed their designated victim still quite innocent
of their designs; but for the fact that he continued (however ingeniously) to give the slip
to questions, and the yet stronger confirmation of his repeated efforts to escape.  The last
of these, which brought things to a head, I am now to relate.  And first I should say that
by this time the temper of Harris's companions was utterly worn out; civility was scarce pretended;
and for one very significant circumstance, the Master and Secundra had been (on some pretext)
deprived of weapons.  On their side, however, the threatened pair kept up the parade of friendship
handsomely; Secundra was all bows, the Master all smiles; and on the last night of the truce
he had even gone so far as to sing for the diversion of the company.  It was observed that
he had also eaten with unusual heartiness, and drank deep, doubtless from design.

At least, about three in the morning, he came out of the tent into the open air, audibly mourning
and complaining, with all the manner of a sufferer from surfeit.  For some while, Secundra
publicly attended on his patron, who at last became more easy, and fell asleep on the frosty
ground behind the tent, the Indian returning within.  Some time after, the sentry was changed;
had the Master pointed out to him, where he lay in what is called a robe of buffalo:  and thenceforth
kept an eye upon him (he declared) without remission.  With the first of the dawn, a draught
of wind came suddenly and blew open one side the corner of the robe; and with the same puff,
the Master's hat whirled in the air and fell some yards away.  The sentry thinking it remarkable
the sleeper should not awaken, thereupon drew near; and the next moment, with a great shout,
informed the camp their prisoner was escaped.  He had left behind his Indian, who (in the first
vivacity of the surprise) came near to pay the forfeit of his life, and was, in fact, inhumanly
mishandled; but Secundra, in the midst of threats and cruelties, stuck to it with extraordinary
loyalty, that he was quite ignorant of his master's plans, which might indeed be true, and
of the manner of his escape, which was demonstrably false. Nothing was therefore left to the
conspirators but to rely entirely on the skill of Mountain.  The night had been frosty, the
ground quite hard; and the sun was no sooner up than a strong thaw set in. It was Mountain's
boast that few men could have followed that trail, and still fewer (even of the native Indians)
found it.  The Master had thus a long start before his pursuers had the scent, and he must
have travelled with surprising energy for a pedestrian so unused, since it was near noon before
Mountain had a view of him. At this conjuncture the trader was alone, all his companions following,
at his own request, several hundred yards in the rear; he knew the Master was unarmed; his
heart was besides heated with the exercise and lust of hunting; and seeing the quarry so close,
so defenceless, and seeming so fatigued, he vain-gloriously determined to effect the capture
with his single hand.  A step or two farther brought him to one margin of a little clearing;
on the other, with his arms folded and his back to a huge stone, the Master sat.  It is possible
Mountain may have made a rustle, it is certain, at least, the Master raised his head and gazed
directly at that quarter of the thicket where his hunter lay; "I could not be sure he saw me,"
Mountain said; "he just looked my way like a man with his mind made up, and all the courage
ran out of me like rum out of a bottle."  And presently, when the Master looked away again,
and appeared to resume those meditations in which he had sat immersed before the trader's coming,
Mountain slunk stealthily back and returned to seek the help of his companions.

And now began the chapter of surprises, for the scout had scarce informed the others of his
discovery, and they were yet preparing their weapons for a rush upon the fugitive, when the
man himself appeared in their midst, walking openly and quietly, with his hands behind his back.

"Ah, men!" says he, on his beholding them.  "Here is a fortunate encounter.  Let us get back
to camp."

Mountain had not mentioned his own weakness or the Master's disconcerting gaze upon the thicket,
so that (with all the rest) his return appeared spontaneous.  For all that, a hubbub arose;
oaths flew, fists were shaken, and guns pointed.

"Let us get back to camp," said the Master.  "I have an explanation to make, but it must be
laid before you all.  And in the meanwhile I would put up these weapons, one of which might
very easily go off and blow away your hopes of treasure.  I would not kill," says he, smiling,
"the goose with the golden eggs."

The charm of his superiority once more triumphed; and the party, in no particular order, set
off on their return.  By the way, he found occasion to get a word or two apart with Mountain.

"You are a clever fellow and a bold," says he, "but I am not so sure that you are doing yourself
justice.  I would have you to consider whether you would not do better, ay, and safer, to serve
me instead of serving so commonplace a rascal as Mr. Harris. Consider of it," he concluded,
dealing the man a gentle tap upon the shoulder, "and don't be in haste.  Dead or alive, you
will find me an ill man to quarrel with."

When they were come back to the camp, where Harris and Pinkerton stood guard over Secundra,
these two ran upon the Master like viragoes, and were amazed out of measure when they were
bidden by their comrades to "stand back and hear what the gentleman had to say."  The Master
had not flinched before their onslaught; nor, at this proof of the ground he had gained, did
he betray the least sufficiency.

"Do not let us be in haste," says he.  "Meat first and public speaking after."

With that they made a hasty meal:  and as soon as it was done, the Master, leaning on one elbow,
began his speech.  He spoke long, addressing himself to each except Harris, finding for each
(with the same exception) some particular flattery.  He called them "bold, honest blades,"
declared he had never seen a more jovial company, work better done, or pains more merrily supported.
"Well, then," says he, "some one asks me, Why the devil I ran away?  But that is scarce worth
answer, for I think you all know pretty well. But you know only pretty well:  that is a point
I shall arrive at presently, and be you ready to remark it when it comes.  There is a traitor
here:  a double traitor:  I will give you his name before I am done; and let that suffice for
now.  But here comes some other gentleman and asks me, 'Why, in the devil, I came back?'  Well,
before I answer that question, I have one to put to you.  It was this cur here, this Harris,
that speaks Hindustani?" cries he, rising on one knee and pointing fair at the man's face,
with a gesture indescribably menacing; and when he had been answered in the affirmative, "Ah!"
says he, "then are all my suspicions verified, and I did rightly to come back.  Now, men, hear
the truth for the first time."  Thereupon he launched forth in a long story, told with extraordinary
skill, how he had all along suspected Harris, how he had found the confirmation of his fears,
and how Harris must have misrepresented what passed between Secundra and himself.  At this
point he made a bold stroke with excellent effect.  "I suppose," says he, "you think you are
going shares with Harris; I suppose you think you will see to that yourselves; you would naturally
not think so flat a rogue could cozen you.  But have a care!  These half idiots have a sort
of cunning, as the skunk has its stench; and it may be news to you that Harris has taken care
of himself already.  Yes, for him the treasure is all money in the bargain.  You must find
it or go starve.  But he has been paid beforehand; my brother paid him to destroy me; look
at him, if you doubt - look at him, grinning and gulping, a detected thief!"  Thence, having
made this happy impression, he explained how he had escaped, and thought better of it, and
at last concluded to come back, lay the truth before the company, and take his chance with
them once more:  persuaded as he was, they would instantly depose Harris and elect some other
leader.  "There is the whole truth," said he:  "and with one exception, I put myself entirely
in your hands.  What is the exception?  There he sits," he cried, pointing once more to Harris;
"a man that has to die!  Weapons and conditions are all one to me; put me face to face with
him, and if you give me nothing but a stick, in five minutes I will show you a sop of broken
carrion, fit for dogs to roll in."

