THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS.

VOL. XI.--MAY, 1863.--NO. LXVII.

CHARLES LAMB'S UNCOLLECTED WRITINGS.

I.

What Southey says of Cottle's shop is true of the little bookstore in a certain old town of
New England, which I used to frequent years ago, and where I got my first peep into Chaucer,
and Spenser, and Fuller, and Sir Thomas Browne, and other renowned old authors, from whom I
now derive so much pleasure and solacement. 'Twas a place where sundry lovers of good books
used to meet and descant eloquently and enthusiastically upon the merits and demerits of their
favorite authors. I, then a young man, with a most praiseworthy desire of reading "books that
are books," but with a most lamentable ignorance of even the names of the principal English
authors, was both a pleased and a benefited listener to the conversations of these bookish
men. Certainly, after hearing the genial, scholarly, gentlemanly lawyer S---- sweetly discourse
on the old English divines,--or bluff, burly, good-natured, wit-loving Master R---- declaim,
in his loud, bold, enthusiastic manner, on the old English dramatists,--or queer, quaint, golden-hearted
Dr. D---- mildly and modestly, yet most pertinently, express himself about Old Burton and Old
Fuller,--or wise, thoughtful, ingenious Squire M---- ably, if not very eloquently, hold forth
on Shakspeare and Milton, I had (who but a dunce or dunderhead would not have had?) a "greedy
great desire" to look into the works of

  "Such famous men, such worthies of the
  earth."

And after listening to the stout, brawny, two-fisted, whole-soled, big-hearted, large-brained
Parson A----, as he talked in his wise and winsome manner about Charles Lamed and his writings,
I could not refrain from forthwith procuring and reading Elia's famous and immortal essays.
Since then I have been a constant reader of Elia, and a most zealous admirer of Charles Lamb
the author and Charles Lamb the man. Thackeray, you remember, somewhere mentions a youthful
admirer of Dickens, who, when she is happy, reads "Nicholas Nickleby,"--when she is unhappy,
reads "Nicholas Nickleby,"--when she is in bed, reads "Nicholas Nickleby,"--when she has nothing
to do, reads "Nicholas Nickleby,"--and when she has finished the book, reads "Nicholas Nickleby":
and so do I read and re-read the essays and letters of Charles Lamb; and the oftener I read
them, the better I like then, the higher I value them. Indeed, I live upon the essays of Elia,
as Hazlitt did upon "Tristram Shandy," as a sort of food that simulates with my natural disposition.

And yet, despite all my love and admiration of Charles Lamb,--nay, rather in consequence of
it,--I must blame him of what Mr. Barron Field was please to eulogize him for,--writing so
little. Undoubtedly in most authors suppression in writing would be a virtue. In Lamb it was
a fault. There are a score or two of subjects which he, "no less from temerity than felicity
of his pen," should have written upon,--subjects on which he had thought and ruminated for
years, and which he, and none but he, could do justice to. He who loved and admired before
or since, such sterling old writers as Burton, Browne, Fuller, and Walton, should have given
us an article on each of those worthies and their inditing. Chaucer and Spenser, though proud
and happy in having had such an appreciating reader of there writings as Elia was, when denizen
of this earth, would, methinks, have given him a warmer, heartier, gladder welcome to heaven,
if he had done for them what he did for Hogarth and the old dramatists,--pointed out to the
would "with a finger of fire" the truth and beauty contained in their works. Instead of writing
only two volumes of essays, Elia should have written a dozen. He had read, heard, thought,
and seen enough to furnish matter for twice that number. He himself confesseth, in a letter
written a year or two before his death, that he felt as if he had a thousand essays swelling
within him. Oh that Elia, like Mr. Spectator, had printed himself out before he died!

But notwithstanding Lamb's fame and popularity, notwithstanding all readers of his inimitable
essays lament that one who wrote so delightfully as Elia did should have written so little,
their has not yet be published a complete collection of his writings. The standard edition
of his works, edited by Talfourd, is far from being complete. Surely the author of "Ion" was
unwise in not publishing all of Lamb's productions. Carlyle said he wanted to know all about
Margaret Fuller, even to the color of her stocking. And the admirers of Elia wanted to possess
every scrap and fragment of his inditing. They cannot let oblivion have the lease "notelet"
or "essaykin" of his. For, however inferior to his best productions these uncollected articles
may be, they must contain more or less of Lamb's humor, sense, and observation. Somewhat of
his delightful individuality must be stamped upon them. In brief, they cannot but contain much
that would amuse and entertain all admirers of their author. For myself, I would rather read
the poorest of these uncollected essays of Elia than the best productions of some of the most
popular of modern authors. "The king's chaff is as good as other people's corn," saith the
old proverb. "There is a pleasure arising from the very bagatelles of men renowned for their
knowledge and genius," says Goldsmith; "and we receive with veneration those pieces, after
they are dead, which would lessen them in our estimation while living: sensible that we shall
enjoy them no more, we treasure up, as precious relics, every saying and word that has escaped
them; but their writings, of every kind, we deem inestimable."

For years I have been hopefully and patiently waiting for somebody to collect and publish these
scattered and all but forgotten articles of Lamb's; but at last, seeing no likelihood of its
being done at present, if ever in my day, and fearing that I might else never have an opportunity
of perusing these strangely neglected writings of my favorite author, I commenced the task
of searching out and discovering them myself for mine own delectation. And after a deal of
fruitless and aimless labor, (for, unlike Johannes Scotus Erigena, in his quest of a treatise
of Aristotle, I had no oracle to consult,) after spending as many days in turning over the
leaves of I know not how many volumes of old, dusty, musty, fusty periodicals as Mr. Vernon
ran miles after a butterfly, I was amply rewarded for all my pains. For I not only found all
of Lamb's uncollected writings that are spoken of in his "Life and Letters," but a goodly number
of articles from his pen which neither he nor his biographer has ever alluded to. As I read
these (to me) new essays of Elia, I could not but feel somewhat indignant that such excellent
productions of such an excellent writer should have been "underkept and down supprest" so long.
I was as much ravished with these new-found essays of Lamb's as good old Nicholas Gerbelius
(see Burton's "Anatomy of Melancholy," Partition II., Section 2, Member 4) was with a few Greek
authors restored to light. If I had had one or two loving, enthusiastic admirers of Charles
Lamb to enjoy with me the delight of perusing these uncollected Elias, I should have been "all
felicity up to the brim." For with me, as with Michael de Montaigne and Hans Andersen, there
is no pleasure without communication.

And therefore, partly to please myself, and partly to please the admirers of Charles Lamb,
I herewith publish a part of Elia's uncollected essays and sketches. To ninety-nine hundredths
of their author's readers they will be as good as MSS. And not only will they be new to most
readers, but they will be found to be not wholly unworthy of him who wrote the immortal dissertation
on "Roast Pig." Albeit not to be compared with Elia's best and most finished productions, these
articles contain some of the best qualities and peculiarities of his genius. Without doubt,
all genuine admirers, all true lovers of the gentle, genial, delightful Elia, will be mightily
pleased with these productions of his inimitable pen.

Those who were so fortunate as to be personally acquainted with Charles Lamb are lavish in
their praise of his conversational powers. "He always made the best pun and the best remark
in the course of the evening." Lamb was undoubtedly "matchless as a fireside companion," inimitable
as a table-talker, "great at the midnight hour." The "wit-combats" at his Wednesday-evening
parties were waged with scarcely inferior skill and ability to those fought at the old Mermaid
tavern between Shakspeare and Ben Jonson. Hazlitt, in his delightful essay intituled "Persons
One would Wish to have Seen," gives a masterly report of the sayings and doings at one of these
parties. It is to be regretted that he did not report the conversation at all of these weekly
assemblages of wits, humorists, and good-fellows. He made a capital book out of the conversation
of James Northcote: he could have made a better one out of the conversation of Charles Lamb.
Indeed, Elia himself seems to have been conscious that many of his deepest, wisest, best thoughts
and ideas, as well as wildest, wittiest, airiest fancies and conceits, were vented in conversation;
and a few months before his death he noted down for the entertainment of the readers of the
London "Athenaeum," a few specimens of his table-talk. Although these paragraphs of table-talk
are not transcripts of their author's actual conversation, they doubtless contain the pith
and substance of what he had really said in some of his familiar discourses with friends and
acquaintances. They contain none of his "jests that scald like tears," none of his play upon
words, none of his flashes of merriment that were wont to set the table on a roar, but some
of his sweet, serious, beautiful thoughts and fancies.

Strange that Talfourd neglected to print "Table-Talk" in his edition of Lamb! He does not even
mention it. It is certainly as good, if not a great deal better than some things of Lamb's
which he saw fit to reprint. But the best way to praise Elia's "Table-Talk" is, as the "Tatler"
says of South's wise and witty discourse on the "Pleasures of Religious Wisdom," to quote it;
and therefore here followeth, without further comment or introduction,--

"TABLE-TALK. BY THE LATE ELIA. We feed ignorantly, and want to be able to give a reason of
the relish that is in us; so that, if Nature should furnish us with a new meat, or be prodigally
pleased to restore the phoenix, upon a given flavor, we might be able to pronounce instantly,
on philosophical principles, what the sauce to it should be,--what the curious adjuncts."

       *       *       *       *       *

"The greatest pleasure I know is to do a good action by stealth and to have it found out by
accident."

       *       *       *       *       *

"'T is unpleasant to meet a beggar. It is painful to deny him; and if you relieve him, it is
so much out of your pocket."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Men marry for fortune, and sometimes to please their fancy; but, much oftener than is suspected,
they consider what the world will say of it, how such a woman in their friends' eyes will look
at the head of a table. Hence we see so many insipid beauties made wives of, that could not
have struck the particular fancy of any man that had any fancy at all. These I call furniture
wives; as men buy furniture pictures, because they suit this or that niche in their dining-parlors.

"Your universally cried-up beauties are the very last choice which a man of taste would make.
What pleases all cannot have that individual charm which makes this or that countenance engaging
to you, and to you only perhaps, you know not why. What gained the fair Gunnings titled husbands,
who, after all, turned out very sorry wives? Popular repute."

       *       *       *       *       *

"It is a sore trial, when a daughter shall marry against her father's approbation. A little
hard-heartedness, and aversion to a reconcilement, is almost pardonable. After all, Will Dockwray's
way is, perhaps, the wisest. His best-loved daughter made a most imprudent match,--in fact,
eloped with the last man in the world that her father would have wished her to marry. All the
world said that he would never speak to her again. For months she durst not write to him, much
less come near him. But, in a casual rencounter, he met her in the streets of Ware,--Ware,
that will long remember the mild virtues of William Dockwray, Esq. What said the parent to
his disobedient child, whose knees faltered under her at the sight of him? 'Ha, Sukey, is it
you?' with that benevolent aspect with which he paced the streets of Ware, venerated as an
angel,--'come and dine with us on Sunday'; then turning away, and again turning back, as if
he had forgotten something, he added,--'and, Sukey, do you hear? bring your husband with you.'
This was all the reproof she ever heard from him. Need it be added that the match turned out
better for Susan than the world expected?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"'We read the "Paradise Lost" as a task,' says Dr. Johnson. Nay, rather as a celestial recreation,
of which the dullard mind is not at all hours alike recipient. 'Nobody ever wished it longer';--nor
the moon rounder, he might have added. Why, 'tis the perfectness and completeness of it which
makes us imagine that not a line could be added to it, or diminished from it, with advantage.
Would we have a cubit added to the stature of the Medicean Venus? Do we wish her taller?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Amidst the complaints of the wide spread of infidelity among us, it is consolatory that a
sect is sprung up in the heart of the metropolis, and is daily on the increase, of teachers
of that healing doctrine which Pope upheld, and against which Voltaire directed his envenomed
wit. We mean those practical preachers of Optimism, or the belief that Whatever is best, the
cads of omnibuses, who, from their little back pulpits, not once in three or four hours, as
those proclaimers of 'God and His prophet' in Mussulman countries, but every minute, at the
entry or exit of a brief passenger, are heard, in an almost prophetic tone, to exclaim, (Wisdom
crying out, as it were, in the streets,) 'ALL'S RIGHT!'"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Advice is not so commonly thrown away as is imagined. We seek it in difficulties. But, in
common speech, we are apt to confound with it admonition: as when a friend reminds one that
drink is prejudicial to the health, etc. We do not care to be told of that which we know better
than the good man that admonishes. M---- sent to his friend L----, who is no water-drinker,
a two-penny tract 'Against the Use of Fermented Liquors.' L---- acknowledged the obligation,
as far as to twopence. Penotier's advice was the safest, after all:--

"'I advised him'--

"But I must tell you. The dear, good-meaning, no-thinking creature had been dumbfounding a
company of us with a detail of inextricable difficulties in which the circumstances of an acquaintance
of his were involved. No clue of light offered itself. He grew more and more misty as he proceeded.
We pitied his friend, and thought,--

  "'God help the man so wrapt in error's endless
  maze!'

"when, suddenly brightening up his placid countenance, like one that had found out a riddle,
and looked to have the solution admired,--

"'At last,' said he, 'I advised him'--

"Here he paused, and here we were again interminably thrown back. By no possible guess could
any of us aim at the drift of the meaning he was about to be delivered of.

"'I advised him,' he repeated, 'to have some advice upon the subject.'

"A general approbation followed; and it was unanimously agreed, that, under all the circumstances
of the case, no sounder or more judicious counsel could have been given."

       *       *       *       *       *

"A laxity pervades the popular use of words.

"Parson W---- is not quite so continent as Diana, yet prettily dissembleth his frailty. Is
Parson W---- therefore a hypocrite? I think not. Where the concealment of a vice is less pernicious
than the barefaced publication of it would be, no additional delinquency is incurred in the
secrecy.

"Parson W---- is simply an immoral clergyman. But if Parson W---- were to be forever haranguing
on the opposite virtue,--choosing for his perpetual text, in preference to all other pulpit-topics,
the remarkable resistance recorded in the 89th of Exodus [Genesis?],--dwelling, moreover, and
dilating upon it,--then Parson W---- might be reasonably suspected of hypocrisy. But Parson
W---- rarely diverteth into such line of argument, or toucheth it briefly. His ordinary topics
are fetched from 'obedience to the powers that are,'--'submission to the civil magistrate in
all commands that are not absolutely unlawful'; on which he can delight to expatiate with equal
fervor and sincerity.

"Again. To despise a person is properly to look down upon him with none or the least possible
emotion. But when Clementina, who has lately lost her lover, with bosom heaving, eyes flashing,
and her whole frame in agitation, pronounces with a peculiar emphasis that she 'despises the
fellow,' depend upon it that he is not quite so despicable in her eyes as she would have us
imagine.

"One more instance. If we must naturalize that portentous phrase, a truism, it were well that
we limited the use of it. Every commonplace or trite observation is not a truism. For example:
A good name helps a man on in the world. This is nothing but a simple truth, however hackneyed.
It has a distinct subject and predicate. But when the thing predicated is involved in the term
of the subject, and so necessarily involved that by no possible conception they can be separated,
then it becomes a truism; as to say, A good name is a proof of a man's estimation in the world.
We seem to be saying something, when we say nothing. I was describing to F---- some knavish
tricks of a mutual friend of ours. 'If he did so and so,' was the reply, 'he cannot be an honest
man.' Here was a genuine truism, truth upon truth, inference and proposition identical,--or
rather, a dictionary definition usurping the place of an inference."

       *       *       *       *       *

"We are ashamed at sight of a monkey,--somehow as we are shy of poor relations."

       *       *       *       *       *

"C---- imagined a Caledonian compartment in Hades, where there should be fire without sulphur."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Absurd images are sometimes irresistible. I will mention two. An elephant in a coach-office
gravely coming to have his trunk booked;--a mermaid over a fish-kettle cooking her own tail."

       *       *       *       *       *

"It is the praise of Shakspeare, with reference to the playwriters, his contemporaries, that
he has so few revolting characters. Yet be has one that is singularly mean and disagreeable,--the
King in 'Hamlet.' Neither has he characters of insignificance, unless the phantom that stalks
over the stage as Julius Caesar, in the play of that name, may be accounted one. Neither has
he envious characters, excepting the short part of Don John, in 'Much Ado about Nothing.' Neither
has he unentertaining characters, if we except Parolles, and the little that there is of the
Clown, in 'All's Well that Ends Well.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

"It would settle the dispute as to whether Shakspeare intended Othello for a jealous character,
to consider how differently we are affected towards him, and for Leontes in the 'Winter's Tale.'
Leontes is that character. Othello's fault was simply credulity."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Is it possible that Shakspeare should never have read Homer, in Chapman's version at least?
If he had read it, could he mean to travesty it in the parts of those big boobies, Ajax and
Achilles? Ulysses, Nestor, and Agamemnon are true to their parts in the 'Iliad '; they are
gentlemen at least. Thersites, though unamusing, is fairly deducible from it. Troilus and Cressida
are a fine graft upon it. But those two big bulks"--

       *       *       *       *       *

Disraeli wrote a book on the Quarrels of Authors. Somebody should write one on the Friendships
of Literary Men. If such a work is ever written, Charles Lamb and Samuel Taylor Coleridge will
be honorably mentioned therein. For among all the friendships celebrated in tale or history
there is none more admirable than that which existed between these two eminent men. The "golden
thread that tied their hearts together" was never broken. Their friendship was never "chipt
or diminished"; but the longer they lived, the stronger it grew. Death could not destroy it.
He wrote in Mr. Keymer's volume,--and wrote of Coleridge."

"CHS. LAMB.

"EDMONTON, November 21, 1834."

       *       *       *       *       *

Having seen what Charles Lamb says of Coleridge, perhaps the reader would like to see what
Charles Lamb says of himself. For he, (though but few of his readers are aware of the fact,)
like Lord Herbert of Cherbury, Gibbon, Franklin, and other eminent men, wrote an autobiography.
It is certainly the briefest, and perhaps the wittiest and most truthful autobiographical sketch
in the language. It was published in the "New Monthly Magazine" a few months after its author's
death, with the following preface or introduction from the pen of some unknown admirer of Elia:--

"We have been favored, by the kindness of Mr. Upcott, with the following sketch, written in
one of his manuscript collections, by Charles Lamb. It will be read with deep interest by all,
but with the deepest interest by those who had the honor and the happiness of knowing the writer.
It is so singularly characteristic, that we can scarcely persuade ourselves we do not hear
it, as we read, spoken from his living lips. Slight as it is, it conveys the most exquisite
and perfect notion of the personal manner and habits of our friend. For the intellectual rest,
we lift the veil of its noble modesty, and can even here discern them. Mark its humor, crammed
into a few thinking words,--its pathetic sensibility in the midst of contrast,--its wit, truth,
and feeling,--and, above all, its fanciful retreat at the close under a phantom cloud of death."

CHARLES LAMB'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

"Charles Lamb, born in the Inner Temple, 10th February, 1775; educated in Christ's Hospital;
afterwards a clerk in the Accountants' Office, East-India House; pensioned off from that service,
1825, after thirty-three years' service; is now a gentleman at large;--can remember few specialties
in his life worth noting, except that he once caught a swallow flying (teste suâ manu). Below
the middle stature; cast of face slightly Jewish, with no Judaic tinge in his complexional
religion; stammers abominably, and is therefore more apt to discharge his occasional conversation
in a quaint aphorism or a poor quibble than in set and edifying speeches; has consequently
been libelled as a person always aiming at wit, which, as he told a dull fellow that charged
him with it, is at least as good as aiming at dulness. A small eater, but not drinker; confesses
a partiality for the production of the juniper-berry; was a fierce smoker of tobacco, but may
be resembled to a volcano burnt out, emitting only now and then a casual puff. Has been guilty
of obtruding upon the public a tale in prose, called 'Rosamund Gray,'--a dramatic sketch, named
'John Woodvil,'--a 'Farewell Ode to Tobacco,'--with sundry other poems, and light prose matter,
collected in two slight crown octavos, and pompously christened his works, though in fact they
were his recreations, and his true works may be found on the shelves of Leadenhall Street,
filling some hundred folios. He is also the true Elia, whose essays are extant in a little
volume, published a year or two since, and rather better known from that name without a meaning
than from anything he has done, or can hope to do, in his own. In short, all his merits and
demerits to set forth would take to the end of Mr. Upcott's book, and then not be told truly.

  "He died  18, much lamented.[A]
  Witness his hand,
  CHARLES LAMB.

  "18th April, 1827." The soul of goodness in
things evil was visible to him. He had thought, felt, and suffered
so much, that, as Leigh Hunt says, he literally had intolerance for
nothing. Though he could see but little religion in many professing
Christians, he nevertheless saw that the motley players, "made up of
mimic laughter and tears, passing from the extremes of joy or woe at the
prompter's call," were not so godless and impious as the world believed
them to be. I wonder if
"good B.B." read the article, and, if he did, how he liked it. Quaker
though he was, he could not but have been pleased with it. Should you
like to read the "Religion of the Actors," reader? You will not find it
in any edition of Charles Lamb's writings. Here it is.

THE RELIGION OF ACTORS.

"The world has hitherto so little troubled its head with the points of doctrine held by a community
which contributes in other ways so largely to its amusement, that, before the late mischance
of a celebrated tragic actor, it scarce condescended to look into the practice of any individual
player, much less to inquire into the hidden and abscondite springs of his actions. Indeed,
it is with some violence to the imagination that we conceive of an actor as belonging to the
relations of private life, so closely do we identify these persons in our mind with the characters
which they assume upon the stage. How oddly does it sound, when we are told that the late Miss
Pope, for instance,--that is to say, in our notion of her, Mrs. Candor,--was a good daughter,
an affectionate sister, and exemplary in all the parts of domestic life! With still greater
difficulty can we carry our notions to church, and conceive of Liston kneeling upon a hassock,
or Munden uttering a pious ejaculation, 'making mouths at the invisible event.' But the times
are fast improving; and if the process of sanctity begun under the happy auspices of the present
licenser go on to its completion, it will be as necessary for a comedian to give an account
of his faith as of his conduct. Fawcett must study the five points; and Dicky Suett, if he
were alive, would have had to rub up his catechism. Already the effects of it begin to appear.
A celebrated performer has thought fit to oblige the world with a confession of his faith,--or,
Br----'s 'Religio Dramatici.' This gentleman, in his laudable attempt to shift from his person
the obloquy of Judaism, with the forwardness of a new convert, in trying to prove too much,
has, in the opinion of many, proved too little. A simple declaration of his Christianity was
sufficient; but, strange to say, his apology has not a word about it. We are left to gather
it from some expressions which imply that he is a Protestant; but we did not wish to inquire
into the niceties of his orthodoxy. To his friends of the old persuasion the distinction was
impertinent; for what cares Rabbi Ben Kimchi for the differences which have split our novelty?
To the great body of Christians that hold the Pope's supremacy--that is to say, to the major
part of the Christian world--his religion will appear as much to seek as ever. But perhaps
he conceived that all Christians are Protestants, as children, and the common people call all
that are not animals Christians. The mistake was not very considerable in so young a proselyte.
Or he might think the general (as logicians speak) involved in the particular. All Protestants
are Christians; but I am a Protestant; ergo, etc.: as if a marmoset, contending to be a man,
overleaping that term as too generic and vulgar, should at once roundly proclaim himself to
be a gentleman. The argument would be, as we say, ex abundanti. From whichever cause this excessus
in terminis proceeded, we can do no less than congratulate the general state of Christendom
upon the accession of so extraordinary a convert. Who was the happy instrument of the conversion
we are yet to learn: it comes nearest to the attempt of the late pious Doctor Watts to Christianize
the Psalms of the Old Testament. Something of the old Hebrew raciness is lost in the transfusion;
but much of its asperity is softened and pared down in the adaptation.

"The appearance of so singular a treatise at this conjuncture has set us upon an inquiry into
the present state of religion upon the stage generally. By the favor of the church-wardens
of Saint Martin's in the Fields, and Saint Paul's, Covent Garden, who have very readily, and
with great kindness, assisted our pursuit, we are enabled to lay before the public the following
particulars. Strictly speaking, neither of the two great bodies is collectively a religious
institution. We had expected to have found a chaplain among them, as at Saint Stephen's, and
other Court establishments; and were the more surprised at the omission, as the last Mr. Bengough,
at the one house, and Mr. Powell at the other, from a gravity of speech and demeanor, and the
habit of wearing black at their first appearances in the beginning of fifth or the conclusion
of fourth acts, so eminently pointed out their qualifications for such office. These corporations,
then, being not properly congregational, we must seek the solution of our question in the tastes,
attainments, accidental breeding, and education of the individual members of them. As we were
prepared to expect, a majority at both houses adhere to the religion of the Church Established,
only that at one of them a pretty strong leaven of Catholicism is suspected,--which, considering
the notorious education of the manager at a foreign seminary, is not so much to be wondered
at. Some have gone so far as to report that Mr. T----y, in particular, belongs to an order
lately restored on the Continent. We can contradict this: that gentleman is a member of the
Kirk of Scotland; and his name is to be found, much to his honor, in the list of seceders from
the congregation of Mr. Fletcher. While the generality, as we have said, are content to jog
on in the safe trammels of national orthodoxy, symptoms of a sectarian spirit have broken out
in quarters where we should least have looked for it. Some of the ladies at both houses are
deep in controverted points. Miss F----e, we are credibly informed, is Sub-, and Madame V----a
Supra-Lapsarian. Mr. Pope is the last of the exploded sect of the Ranters. Mr. Sinclair has
joined the Shakers. Mr. Grimaldi, Senior, after being long a Jumper, has lately fallen into
some whimsical theories respecting the Fall of Man; which he understands, not of an allegorical,
but a real tumble, by which the whole body of humanity became, as it were, lame to the performance
of good works. Pride he will have to be nothing but a stiff neck; irresolution, the nerves
shaken; an inclination to sinister paths, crookedness of the joints; spiritual deadness, a
paralysis; want of charity, a contraction in the fingers; despising of government, a broken
head; the plaster, a sermon; the lint to bind it up, the text; the probers, the preachers;
a pair of crutches, the old and new law; a bandage, religious obligation: a fanciful mode of
illustration, derived from the accidents and habits of his past calling spiritualized, rather
than from any accurate acquaintance with the Hebrew text, in which report speaks him but a
raw scholar. Mr. Elliston, from all that we can learn, has his religion yet to choose; though
some think him a Muggletonian."

That essay has been strangely and purposely misunderstood. Elia, albeit he loved the cheerful
glass, was not a drunkard. The "poor nameless egotist" of the Confessions is not Charles Lamb.
In printing the article in the "London Magazine," (it was originally contributed to a collection
of tracts published by Basil Montagu,) Elia introduced it to the readers of that periodical
in the following explanatory paragraphs. They should be printed in all editions of Elia as
a note to the article they explain and comment on. For many persons, like a writer in the London
"Quarterly Review" for July, 1822, believe, or profess to believe, that this "fearful picture
of the consequences of intemperance" is a true tale. "How far it was from actual truth," says
Talfourd, "the essays of Elia, the production of a later day, in which the maturity of his
feeling, humor, and reason is exhibited, may sufficiently show."

ELIA ON HIS "CONFESSIONS OF A DRUNKARD."

"Many are the sayings of Elia, painful and frequent his lucubrations, set forth for the most
part (such his modesty!) without a name, scattered about in obscure periodicals and forgotten
miscellanies. From the dust of some of these it is our intention occasionally to revive a tract
or two that shall seem worthy of a better fate, especially at a time like the present, when
the pen of our industrious contributor, engaged in a laborious digest of his recent Continental
tour, may haply want the leisure to expatiate in more miscellaneous speculations. We have been
induced, in the first instance, to reprint a thing which he put forth in a friend's volume
some years since, entitled 'The Confessions of a Drunkard,' seeing that Messieurs the Quarterly
Reviewers have chosen to embellish their last dry pages with fruitful quotations therefrom;
adding, from their peculiar brains, the gratuitous affirmation, that they have reason to believe
that the describer (in his delineations of a drunkard, forsooth!) partly sat for his own picture.
The truth is, that our friend had been reading among the essays of a contemporary, who has
perversely been confounded with him, a paper in which Edax (or the Great Eater) humorously
complaineth of an inordinate appetite; and it struck him that a better paper--of deeper interest,
and wider usefulness--might be made out of the imagined experiences of a Great Drinker. Accordingly
he set to work, and, with that mock fervor and counterfeit earnestness with which he is too
apt to over-realize his descriptions, has given us a frightful picture indeed, but no more
resembling the man Elia than the fictitious Edax may be supposed to identify itself with Mr.
L., its author. It is, indeed, a compound extracted out of his long observations of the effects
of drinking upon all the world about him; and this accumulated mass of misery he hath centred
(as the custom is with judicious essayists) in a single figure. We deny not that a portion
of his own experiences may have passed into the picture, (as who, that is not a washy fellow,
but must at some times have felt the after-operation of a too generous cup?)--but then how
heightened! how exaggerated! how little within the sense of the Review, where a part, in their
slanderous usage, must be understood to stand for the whole! But it is useless to expostulate
with this Quarterly slime, brood of Nilus, watery heads with hearts of jelly, spawned under
the sign of Aquarius, incapable of Bacchus, and therefore cold, washy, spiteful, bloodless.
Elia shall string them up one day, and show their colors,--or rather, how colorless and vapid
the whole fry,--when he putteth forth his long-promised, but unaccountably hitherto delayed,
'Confessions of a Water-Drinker.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

In turning over the leaves of divers old periodicals in search of the "Religion of Actors,"
I accidentally and unexpectedly found an article by Charles Lamb entitled, "On the Custom of
Hissing at the Theatres, with some Account of a Club of Damned Authors."

Lamb, we know, was a great lover of the drama,--a true patron and admirer of playwrights and
play-actors. He was, perhaps, the greatest theatrical critic that ever lived. Many of the happiest
hours of his life were passed in reading the works of the old English dramatists, and in witnessing
the performances of favorite actors. He once had hopes of being a successful dramatist himself,
and to that end devoted many of his spare hours and odd moments to the composition of a tragedy.
("John Woodvil,") which John Kemble, "the stately manager of Drury Lane," refused to bring out.

Would that Lamb's joyous and exultant anticipations of "Mr. H."'s success had proved true!
But, instead of being greeted with the applause of pit and gallery, which would have stood
Elia instead of "the unheard voice of posterity," the piece was hissed and hooted from the stage.

"ON THE CUSTOM OF HISSING AT THE THEATRES, WITH SOME ACCOUNT OF A CLUB OF DAMNED AUTHORS.

"Mr. Reflector,--I am one of those persons whom the world has thought proper to designate by
the title of Damned Authors. In that memorable season of dramatic failures, 1806-7, in which
no fewer, I think, than two tragedies, four comedies, one opera, and three farces suffered
at Drury-Lane Theatre, I was found guilty of constructing an afterpiece, and was damned.

"Against the decision of the public in such instances there can be no appeal. The Clerk of
Chatham might as well have protested against the decision of Cade and his followers, who were
then the public. Like him, I was condemned because I could write.

"Not but it did appear to some of us that the measures of the popular tribunal at that period
savored a little of harshness and of the summum jus. The public mouth was early in the season
fleshed upon the 'Vindictive Man,' and some pieces of that nature, and it retained through
the remainder of it a relish of blood. As Dr. Johnson would have said: Sir, there was a habit
of sibilation in the house.

"Still less am I disposed to inquire into the reason of the comparative lenity, on the other
hand, with which some pieces were treated, which, to indifferent judges, seemed at least as
much deserving of condemnation as some of those which met with it. I am willing to put, a favorable
construction upon the votes that were given against us; I believe that there was no bribery
or designed partiality in the case;--only 'our nonsense did not happen to suit their nonsense';
that was all.

"But against the manner in which the public on these occasions think fit to deliver their disapprobation
I must and ever will protest.

"Sir, imagine--but you have been present at the damning of a
piece,--those who never had that felicity, I beg them to imagine--a vast
theatre, like that which Drury Lane was, before it was a heap of dust
and ashes, (I insult not over its fallen greatness; let it recover
itself when it can for me, let it lift up its towering head once
more, and take in poor authors to write for it; hic coestus artemque
repono,)--a theatre like that, filled with all sorts of disgusting
sounds,--shrieks, groans, hisses, but chiefly the last, like the noise
of many waters, or that which Don Quixote heard from the fulling-mills,
or that wilder combination of devilish sounds which Saint Anthony
listened to in the wilderness. Dreadful was the din
  Of hissing through the hall, thick swarming now
  With complicated monsters, head and tail,
  Scorpion and asp, and Amphisbaena dire,
  Cerastes horned, Hydrus, and Elops drear,
  And Dipsas.'

"For hall substitute theatre, and you have the very image of what takes place at what is called
the damnation of a piece,--and properly so called; for here you see its origin plainly, whence
the custom was derived, and what the first piece was that so suffered. After this none can
doubt the propriety of the appellation. A culprit in the pillory (bate the eggs) meets with
no severer exprobration.

"Indeed, I have often wondered that some modest critic has not proposed that there should be
a wooden machine to that effect erected in some convenient part of the proscenium, which an
unsuccessful author should be required to mount, and stand his hour, exposed to the apples
and oranges of the pit. This amende honorable would well suit with the meanness of some authors,
who in their prologues fairly prostrate their skulls to the audience, and seem to invite a pelting.

"Or why should they not have their pens publicly broke over their heads, as the swords of recreant
knights in old times were, and an oath administered to them that they should never write again?

"Seriously, Messieurs the Public, this outrageous way which you have got of expressing your
displeasures is too much for the occasion. When I was deafening under the effects of it, I
could not help asking what crime of great moral turpitude I had committed: for every man about
me seemed to feel the offence as personal to himself, as something which public interest and
private feelings alike called upon him in the strongest possible manner to stigmatize with infamy.

"The Romans, it Is well known to you, Mr. Reflector, took a gentler method of marking their
disapprobation of an author's work. They were a humane and equitable nation. They left the
furca and the patibulum, the axe and the rods, to great offenders: for these minor and (if
I may so term them) extra-moral offences the bent thumb was considered as a sufficient sign
of disapprobation,--vertere pollicem; as the pressed thumb, premere pollicem, was a mark of
approving.

"And really there seems to have been a sort of fitness in this method, a correspondency of
sign in the punishment to the offence. For, as the action of writing is performed by bending
the thumb forward, the retroversion or bending back of that joint did not unaptly point to
the opposite of that action, implying that it was the will of the audience that the author
should write no more: a much more significant, as well as more humane, way of expressing-that
desire, than our custom of hissing, which is altogether senseless and indefensible. Nor do
we find that the Roman audiences deprived themselves, by this lenity, of any tittle of that
supremacy which audiences in all ages have thought themselves bound to maintain over such as
have been candidates for their applause. On the contrary, by this method they seem to have
had the author, as we should express it, completely under finger and thumb. Not but something
very like it took place at the time of the O.-P. differences. The placards which were nightly
exhibited were, properly speaking, the composition of the public. The public wrote them, the
public applauded them, and precious morceaux of wit and eloquence they were,--except some few,
of a better quality, which it is well known were furnished by professed dramatic writers. After
this specimen of what the public can do for itself, it should be a little slow in condemning
what others do for it.

"As the degrees of malignancy vary in people according as they have more or less of the Old
Serpent (the father of hisses) in their composition, I have sometimes amused myself with analyzing
this many-headed hydra, which calls itself the public, into the component parts of which it
is 'complicated, head and tail,' and seeing how many varieties of the snake kind it can afford.

"First, there is the Common English Snake.--This is that part of the auditory who are always
the majority at damnations, but who, having no critical venom in themselves to sting them on,
stay till they hear others hiss, and then join in for company.

"The Blind Worm is a, species very nearly allied to the foregoing. Some naturalists have doubted
whether they are not the same.

"The Rattle--Snake.--These are your obstreperous talking critics,--the impertinent guides of
the pit,--who will not give a plain man leave to enjoy an evening's entertainment, but, with
their frothy jargon and incessant finding of faults, either drown his pleasure quite, or force
him in his own defence to join in their clamorous censure. The hiss always originates with
these. When this creature springs his rattle, you would think, from the noise it makes, there
was something in it; but you have only to examine the instrument from which the noise proceeds,
and you will find it typical of a critic's tongue,--a shallow membrane, empty, voluble, and
seated in the most contemptible part of the creature's body.

"The Whip-Snake.--This is he that lashes the poor author the next day in the newspapers.

"The Deaf Adder, or Surda Echidna of Linnaeus.--Under this head may be classed all that portion
of the spectators (for audience they properly are not) who, not finding the first act of a
piece answer to their preconceived notions of what a first act should be, like Obstinate in
John Bunyan, positively thrust their fingers in their ears, that they may not hear a word of
what is coming, though perhaps the very next act may be composed in a style as different as
possible, and be written quite to their own tastes. These Adders refuse to hear the voice of
the charmer, because the tuning of his instrument gave them offence.

"I should weary you, and myself too, if I were to go through all the classes of the serpent
kind. Two qualities are common to them all. They are creatures of remarkably cold digestions,
and chiefly haunt pits and low grounds. The chief tenets which distinguish our society, and
which every man among us is bound to hold for gospel, are,--

"That the public, or mob, in all ages, have been a set of blind, deaf, obstinate, senseless,
illiterate savages. That no man of genius, in his senses, would be ambitious of pleasing such
a capricious, ungrateful rabble. That the only legitimate end of writing for them is to pick
their pockets, and, that failing, we are at full liberty to vilify and abuse them as much as
ever we think fit.

"That authors, by their affected pretences to humility, which they made use of as a cloak to
insinuate their writings into the callous senses of the multitude, obtuse to everything but
the grossest flattery, have by degrees made that great beast their master; as we may act submission
to children till we are obliged to practise it in earnest. That authors are and ought to be
considered the masters and preceptors of the public, and not vice versâ. That it was so in
the days of Orpheus, Linus, and Musaeus, and would be so again, if it were not that writers
prove traitors to themselves. That, in particular, in the days of the first of those three
great authors just mentioned, audiences appear to have been perfect models of what audiences
should be; for, though along with the trees and the rocks and the wild creatures, which he
drew after him to listen to his strains, some serpents doubtless came to hear his music, it
does not appear that any one among them ever lifted up a dissentient voice. They knew what
was due to authors in those days. Now every stock and stone turns into a serpent, and has a voice.

"That the terms 'Courteous Reader' and 'Candid Auditors,' as having given rise to a false notion
in those to whom they were applied, as if they conferred upon them some right, which they cannot
have, of exercising their judgments, ought to be utterly banished and exploded.

"These are our distinguishing tenets.

"The privilege of admission to our club is strictly limited to such as have been fairly damned.
A piece that has met with ever so little applause, that has but languished its night or two,
and then gone out, will never entitle its author to a seat among us. An exception to our usual
readiness in conferring this privilege is in the case of a writer who, having been once condemned,
writes again, and becomes candidate for a second martyrdom. Simple damnation we hold to be
a merit, but to be twice-damned we adjudge infamous. Such a one we utterly reject, and blackball
without a hearing:--

  "The common damned shun his society.

"Hoping that your publication of our Regulations may be a means of inviting some more members
into our society, I conclude this long letter.

"I am, Sir, yours, SEMEL-DAMNATUS."

       *       *       *       *       *

DARK WAYS.

  "Tortured with winter's storms, and tossed with a tumultuous sea."

When God's curse forsook my country, it fell on me. I had been young and heroic; I had fought
well; what portion of the clock-work of Fate had been allotted me I had utterly performed.
Twelve years ago I became a man and strove for my country's freedom; now she has attained her
heights without me, and I--what am I? A shapeless hulk, that stays in the shadow, and that
hates the world and the people of the world, and verily the God above the world!

"Fight!" whispered Father Anselmo, the young priest, to me, at my last shrift; and fight I
did. For from Italy's bosom I had drawn the strength of sword-arm, hip, and thigh; and I vowed
to lose that arm and life and all that made life dear toward the trampling of oppressors from
the sacred place.

My sun rose in storm, it continued in storm,--why not so have set? Why not have died when swords
swept their lightnings about me, when the glorious thunders of battle rolled around and sulphurous
blasts enveloped, when the air was full of the bray of bugle and beat of drum, of shout and
shriek, exultation and agony? Why not have gone with the crowd of souls reeking with daring
and desire? Why, oh, why thus left alone to wither? Why still hangs that sun above me, yet
wrapt and veiled and utterly obscured in thick, murk mists of sorrow and despair?

Peace!--let me tell you my story.

Since Father Anselmo--like all youth, whether under cowl, cap, or crown--was a Liberal at heart,
I had not wanted counsel; but when I had told him all my yearnings and aspirations, had bared
to him the throbbings of my very thought, and he had replied in that one blessed word, I hastened
away. There were none to whom I should say farewell; I was alone in the world. This wild blood
of my veins ran in no other veins; I knew thoroughly the wide freedom of solitude; the sins
and the virtues of my race, whatever they were, had culminated in me. As I looked back, that
morning, the castle, planted in a dimple of its demesnes, old and gray and watched by purple
peaks of Apennine, seemed to hide its command only under the mask of silence. The wood through
which I went, with its alluring depths, the moss verdant in everlasting spring beneath my eager
feet, each bough I lifted, the blossoms that blew their gales after, the bearded grasses that
shook in the wind, all gave me their secret sigh; all the sweet land around, the distant hill,
the distant shore, said, "Redeem me from my chains!" I came across a sylvan statue, some faun
nestled in the forest: the rains had stained, frosts cracked, suns blistered it; but what of
those? A vine covered with thorns and stemmed with cords had wreathed about it and bound it
closely in serpent-coils. I stayed and tore apart the fetters till my hands bled, cut away
the twisting branches, and set the god free from his bonds. Triumph rose to my lips, for I
said, "So will I free my country!" Ah, there was my error,--the shackling vines would grow
again, and infold the marble image that had consecrated the forest-glooms; there is the flaw
in all my work,--I have shorn, but have never uprooted an evil. Youth is a fool; the young
Titans cannot scale heaven,--heaven, that, if what I live through be true, is ramparted round
with tyrant lies! But is it true? Am I what I seem to myself? Did I fail in my purpose, in
my will? Did Italy herself belie me? Did she, did she I loved, she I worshipped, she the woman
to whom I gave all, for whom I sacrificed all, did she, too, forsake me? Ah, no! you will tell
me Italy is free. But I did not free her! She waits only to put on in Venice her tiara. And
for that other one, that fair Austrian woman, that devil whom I serve and adore, that yellow-haired
witch who brewed her incantations in my holiest raptures,--she did not then play me foul, and
falsely feign love to win me to disgrace? May all the woes in Heaven's hands fall on her!

God! what have I said? That I should live to ban her with a word! Did I say it? Oh, but it
was vain! Woe for her? No, no! all blessings shower upon her, sunshine attend her, peace and
gladness dwell about her! Traitress though she were, I must love her yet; I cannot unlove her;
I would take her into my heart, and fold my arms about her.--Oh, I pray you do not look upon
me with that mocking smile! Pity me, rather! pity this wretched heart that longs to curse God
and die!--Nay, I want not your idle words. Can good destroy? Can love persecute? I was a worm
that turned. What then? Why not have crushed me to annihilation? Oh, no, not that! He took
me up and shook me before the world, clipped me, and let me fall. A derisive Deity,--why, the
words give each other the lie!

Stop! Your sad eyes look as if you would go away, but for this infinite pity in you. What makes
you pity me? Because I am shorn of my strength? because of all my fair proportions there is
nothing left unshrivelled? because my body--such as it is--is racked with hourly and perpetual
pain? because I die? For none of these? Truly, your judgments are insenilable. For what then?
Because,--yet, no, that cannot be,--because I bear a stubborn heart? because I will not bend
my soul as He has bent my body? Partly,--but you are witless! What else? Because I toss off
a shield and buckler, you say. Because I will not lean upon a tower of strength. Because I
will not throw myself on the tide of divine love, and trust myself to its course. It was that
divine love, then, that tower of strength, that shield and buckler, that made me this thing
you see. Tarpeia was enough. Away with your generalities! Go, go, you slave of the past!

Yet no,--you have not gone? You believe what you say,--I know with those eyes you cannot deceive.
Ah, but I trusted her eyes once! Yet it gives you rest;--your sorrows are not like mine,--there
is no rest for me. I cannot go and gather that balm of Gilead,--I have no legs. I have as good
as none. This wheel-chair and that dog of a turnkey are not the equipage for such a journey.--Ah,
do not turn from me now! My railing is worse than my cursing, you feel indeed. Well, stay with
me at least, and if it is twelve years since you shrived me at first, perhaps you shall shrive
me at last,--for I doubt if I am ever brought out to this sunshine again, if I do not die in
the prison-damps to-night,--and you, with all your change, are Father Anshmo, I think.--Stay,
I will confess to you, confess this. Man! man! this infinite pity of your soul for mine throws
a light on my dark ways; God's curse has fallen on me through man's curse, why not God's love
through man's love? Anselmo, though you became priest, and I went to become hero, we were children
together; I was dear to you then; I am so still, it seems. In your love let me find the love
of that Heaven I have defied.--Stay, friend, yet another word. If man's love can be so great,
what can God's love be? That which I said I said, in desperation; in very truth, that peace
hangs like an unattainable city in the clouds before my soul's vision, that love like a broad
river flowing through the lands, an atmosphere bathing the worlds, the subtile essence and
ether of space in which the farthest star pursues its course,--why, then, should it escape
me, the mote? Oh, when the world turned from me, I sought to flee thither! I sighed for the
rest there! Wretched, alone, I have wept in the dark and in the light that I might go and fling
myself at the heavenly feet. But, do you see? sin has broken down the bridge between God and
me. Yet why, then, is sin in the world,--that scum that rises in the creation and fermentation
of good,--why, but as a bridge on which to re-seek those shores from which we wander? Man,
I do repent me,--in loving you I find God. And you call that blasphemy!--Nay, go, indeed, my
friend! So humble, you are not the man for me. I can talk to the winds: they, at least, do
not visit me too roughly.

These are thy tears, Anselmo? Thou a priest, yet a man? Still with me? Yet thou wilt have to
bear with wayward moods,--scorn now, quiet then. I am a tetchy man; I am an old man, too, though
but just past thirty.--So! I thank God for thee, dear friend!

       *       *       *       *       *

Anselmo, look out on this scene below us here, as we sit on our lofty battlement. Not on the
turrets or the loopholes, the grates and spikes, or all the fortified horror,--but on the earth.
It is fair earth, though not Italy; this is a mountain-fortress; here are all the lights and
shadows that play over grand hill-countries, and yonder are fields of grain, where the winds
and sunbeams play at storm, and a little hamlet's sheltered valley. Doubtless there are towers,
besides, half hidden in the hills. It is Austria: slaves tread it, and tyrants drain it, it
is true,--but the wild, free gypsies troop now and then across it, and though no fiction of
law supports a claim they would scorn to make, they use it so that you would swear they own
it. Do you see how this iron reticulation of social rule and custom and force makes a scaffolding
on which this tameless race build up their lives? I watch them often. Each country has its
compensations. Anselmo, this first made me tremble in my petty defiance,--I, an ephemera of
May, defying the dominations of eternity!--Not so,--not too lowly; I also am, and each limitation
of life is as well, a domination of eternity. But I saw that it was no purpose of God to have
destroyed Italy; when men in weakness and wantonness suffered their liberties to be torn from
them, suffered themselves to become enslaved, there was compensation in that their sons had
chance for heroic growth; they might, in efforts for freedom, create virtues that, born to
freedom, they would never have known. I, too, had my field; I lost it; my enemy was myself.
But when I think of her--Ay, there it is! Do not let me think of her! I become mad, when I
think of her!--At least, allow me this: God's ways are dark. Not that? Not even that? I needed
what I have? If my ambitions, my passions, my will, had ruled, my soul would have remained
null? Ah, friend, and is that so much the worse? It is the soul that aches!--I am a man of
the people, a man who acts,--I was, I mean,--not a man who thinks; and all your subtleties
of word perchance entrap me. I am not wary when you come to logic. See! I surrender point after
point. I shall be dead soon, you know; when this morning's sun shave have set, when the moon
shall hold the night in fee, I shall depart,--wing up and away;--is it, that, my body already
dead, my mind sickens and dies with it, bit after bit, and so I yield, and attest, that, without
the agony of my life, death had failed to burst my soul's husk? Oh, for I was born of an earthy
race, blood ran thick in our veins, we were sensuous and passionate, the breath and steam of
pleasure stifled our brains, and our filmy eyes could not see heaven. Yes, yes, I needed it
all; but, friend, it is pitiful.

       *       *       *       *       *

I like to sit here in the sun. It is only a twelvemonth, of all my long years' imprisonment,
that this has been allowed me. I like to sleep in it, like any wild creature,--the lizard,
a mere reptile,--the bird, a hindered soul. To lie thus, weak as I am, but pillowed and warmed
by the searching genial rays, seems such comfort, when I think of the bed I once had on the
rack! This little slumber from which I wake revives me. I feared not to find you, and did not
unclose my eyes at once. It was good in you to come, Anselmo; it must have been at risk of much.

You ask me to speak of my life since I went away on that morning of your command,--to reconcile
the hostile acts, to gather the scattered reports. Hear it all!

You know my wealth was equal to my demand. I used it; before six months were over, I was the
life and soul of those who must needs be conspirators. They saw that I was earnest, that my
sacrifices were real; they trusted me. Soon the movement had become general; all the smothered
elements of national life were convulsed and throbbing under the crust of tyranny.

How proud and glad was I that morning after our victory! I saw great Italy, beautiful Italy,
once more put on her diadem; I beheld the future prospect of one broad, free land, barriered
by Alps and set impregnably in summer seas, storied seas, keys of the West and East. We embraced
each other as brothers of this glorious nation, ancient Rome risen from trance; as we walked
the streets, we sang; Milan was turbulent with gladness; no gala-day was ever half so bright;
the very spires appeared to spring in the white radiance of their flames up a deeper heaven;
the sun stayed at perpetual dawn for us. Walking along, jubilant and daring, at length we paused
in a square where a fountain dashed up its column of sunshine, and laved our hands. By Heaven!
We forgot independence, Italy, freedom; we were crazed with success and hope; it seemed that
the stream was Austrian blood! Then, in the midst of all, I looked up,--and on a balcony she
stood. A fair woman, with hair like shredded light, her great blue eyes wide and full and of
intense dye, her nostril distended with pride, and fear and hate of us,--but on the full lips,
ripe with crimson bloom, juicy and young and fresh, on those Love lay. The others wound forward,--I
with them, yet apart; and my eyes became fixed on hers. Then I lifted my cap with its tricolor.
She did not return the courtesy, but stood as if spellbound, one hand threading back the straying
hair, the lips a little parted; suddenly she turned to fly, that hand upraised to the casement's
side, and still, as she looked back, the beautiful eyes on mine. My companions had preceded
me; we were alone in the square; she wavered as she stood, then tore a rose from her bosom,
kissed it deep into its heart, and tossed it to me.

"Let all its petals be joys!" I said, and she vanished.

Oh, friend, the leaves have fallen, the rose is dead! Look! I have kept it through all,--sear
leaf and withered spray!

That night we danced; and the Austrian girl was there. They told me she was exiled, and that
she loved liberty; no one told me she was a spy. I saw her swim along the dance, the white
satin of her raiment flashing perpetual interchange of lustrous and obscure, the warm air playing
in the lace that fell like the spray of the fountain round her golden hair and over her pearly
shoulder; grace swept in all her motions, beauty crowned her, she seemed the perfect, pitch
of womanhood.

Still she swims along the lazy line with indolent pleasure, still floats in dreamy waltz-circles
perchance, still bends to the swaying tune as the hazel-branch bonds to the hidden treasure,--but
as for me, my dancing days are over.

By-and-by it was I with whom she danced, whose hand she touched, on whom she leaned. I wondered
if there were any man so blest; I listened to her breath, I watched her cheek, our eyes met,
and I loved her. The music grew deeper, more impassioned; we stood and listened to it,--for
she danced then no more,--our hearts beat time to it, the wind wandering at the casement played
in its measure; we said no words, but now and then each sought the other's glance, and, convicted
there, turned in sudden shame away. When I bade her good-night, which I might never have done
but that the revel broke, a great curl of her hair blew across my lips. I was bold,--I was
heated, too, with this half-secret life of my heart, this warm blood that went leaping so riotously
through my veins, and yet so silently,--I took my dagger from my belt and severed the curl.
See, friend! will you look at it? It is like the little gold snakes of the Campagna, is it
not? each thread, so fine and fair, a separate ray of light: once it was part of her! See how
it twists round my hand! Haste! haste! let me put it up, lest I go mad!--Where was I?

I busied myself again in the work to be done; because of our victory we must not rest; once
more all went forward. I saw the Austrian woman only from a window, or in a church, or as she
walked in the gardens, for many days. Then the times grew hotter; I left the place, and lived
with stern alarums; and thither she also came. I never sought what sent her. She was with the
wounded, with the dying. Then the need of her was past, and she and all the others took their
way. At length that also came to an end.

We were in Rome,--and thither, some time previously, she had gone.

One night, our business for the day was over, our plans for the morrow laid, our messages received,
our messengers despatched, and those who had been conspirators and now bade fair to be saviours
were sleeping. Sleep seemed to fold the world; each bough and twig was silent in repose; the
spectral moonlight itself slept as it bathed the air. I alone wandered and waked. With me there
were too many cares for rest; work kept me on the alert; to court slumber at once was not easy
after the nervous tension of duty. I was torn, too, with conflicting feelings: half my soul
went one way in devotion to my country, half my soul swerved to the other as I thought of the
Austrian woman. I grew tired of the streets and squares; something that should be fragrant
and bowery attracted me. I mounted on the broken water-god of a dry bath and leaped a garden-wall.

No sooner was I there than I knew why I had come. This was her garden.

Heart of Heaven! how all things spoke of her! How the great white roses hung their doubly heavy
heads and poured their perfume out to her! how the sprays shivered as T spoke the name she
owned! how the nightingales ceased for a breath their warbling as she rustled down a fragrant
path and met me! All her hair was swept back in one great mass and held by an ivory comb; a
white cloak wrapped her white array; she was jewel-less and stripped of lustre; she was like
pearl, milky as a shell, white as the moonlight that followed in her wake.

"You breathed my name,--I came," she said.

"Pardon!" I replied. "I heard the fountains dash and the nightingales sing, and I but came
for rest under the spell."

"And have you found it?"

"I have found it."

We remained silent then, while floods of passion gathered and lay darkly still in our hearts.
No, no! I know now that it was not so; yet I will tell it, tell it all, as I thought it then.

She did not stir; indeed, she had such capability of rest, that, had I not spoken, she would
never have stirred, it may be. She knew that my glance was upon her; for herself, she looked
at the broad lilies that grew at her feet, and listened to the melody that seemed to bubble
from a thousand throats with interfluent sound upon the night. It was her repose that soothed
me: moulded clay is not so calm, the marble rose of silence not half so beautifully folded
to dreamful rest, so lovely and so still no garden-statue could have been; the cool, soft night
infiltrated its tranquillity through all her being.

As we stood, the nightingales gave us capricious pause; one alone, distant and clear, fluted
its faint piping like the phantom of the finished strain. Another sound broke the air and floated
along on this too delicious accompaniment: music, fine and far. Some other lover sang to her
his serenade. The voice in its golden sonority rose and crept toward her with persuading sweetness,
winding through all the alleys and hovering over the plots of greenery with a tranquil strength,
as if such song were but the natural spirit of the night, or as if the soul of the broad calm
and silence itself had taken voice.

  "Thy beauty, like a star
  Whose life is light,
  Shines on me from afar.
  And on the night.

  "Each midnight blossom bends
  With sweetest weight,
  And to thy casement sends
  Its fragrant freight.

  "Each, air that faintly curls
  About thy nest
  Its daring pinion furls
  Within thy breast.

  "The night is spread for thee,
  The heavens are wide,
  And the dark earth's mystery
  Is magnified.

  "For thee the garden waits,
  The hours delay,
  The fountains toss their jets
  Of shimmering spray.

  "Then leave thy dim delight
  In dreams above,
  Come forth, and crown the night
  With her I love!"

She listened, but did not lift her head or suffer the change of a fold; then there came the
tinkle of the strings that embalmed the tune, and the singer's steps grew soundless as he left
the street. A new phantasm crept upon me. What right had any other man to sing to her his love-songs?
Did she not live, was not her beauty created, her soul given, for me? Did not the very breath
she drew belong to me? My voice, hoarse and husky, disturbed the stillness, my eyes flamed on her.

"Do you love that man who sang?" I murmured.

"Signor, I love you," she said.

Then we were silent as before, but she stood no longer alone and opposite. One passionate step,
an outstretched arm, and her head on my bosom, my lips bent to hers.

All the nightingales burst forth in choral redundance of song, all the low winds woke and fainted
again through the balmy boughs, all the great stars bent out of heaven to shed their sweet
influences upon us.

It seemed to me that in that old palace-garden life began, my memory went out in confused joy.
I held her, she was mine! mine, mine, in life and for eternity! Fool! it was I who was hers!
Man, you are a priest, and must not love. I, too, was sworn a priest to my country. So we break
oaths!

O moments of swift bliss, why are you torture to remember? Let me not think how the night slipped
into dawn as we roamed, how pale gold filtered through the darkness and bleached the air, how
bird after bird with distant chirrup and breaking time announced the day. She left me, and
as well it might be night. I wound a strange way home. I questioned if it were the dream of
a fevered brain; I wondered, would she remember when next she saw me? None met with me that
day; I forgot all. With the night I again waited in the garden. In vain I waited; she came
no more. I waxed full of love's anger, I crushed the tendril and the vine, I wandered up and
down the walks and cursed these thorns that tore my heart. As I went, an angle of the shrubbery
allured; I turned, and lo! full radiance from open doors, and silvery sounds of sport. I leaned
against the ilex, lost in shadow, and watched her as she stirred and floated there before me
in the light. She seemed to carry with her an atmosphere of warmth and brilliance; all things
were ordered as she moved; one throng melted before her, another followed. By-and-by she stood
at the long casement to seek acquaintance with the night. Constantly I thought to meet her
eye, and I would not reflect that she saw only dusk and vacancy. Then indignantly I stepped
from the ilex and confronted her. A low, glad cry escapes her lips, she holds her arms toward
me and would cross the sill, when a voice constrains her from within. It is he, the accursed
Neapolitan.

"Signor," she says, "a vampire flitted past the dawn."

Dawn indeed was breaking. The man still stood there when she left him, and still looked out;
his eyes lay on me, and irate and motionless I returned their gaze. One by one her guests departed;
with a last threatening glance, he, too, withdrew. I plunged into the silent places again,
and waited now, assured that she would come. The constellations paled, and still I was alone.
Then I wandered restlessly again, and, winding through thickets of leaf-distilled perfume,
I came where just above a balcony, and almost beyond reach from it, a light burned dimly in
one narrow window. I did not ask myself why I did it, but in another moment I had clambered
to the place, and, standing there, I bent forward to my right, pulled away the tangle of ivy
that filled half the niche, and was peering in.

"What is that?" said a voice I knew, with its silvery echo of the South, the accursed Neapolitan's.

"It is the owl that builds in the recess, and stirs the ivy," she replied.

"Haste!" said a third,--"the day breaks."

She was sitting at a low table, writing; Pia, the old nurse, stood behind her chair; the oil
was richly scented that she burned; the single light illumined only her, and covered with her
shadow the low ceiling,--a shadow that seemed to hang above her like a pall ready to fall from
ghostly fingers and smother her in its folds; the others lounged about the room and waited
on her pen, in gloom they, their faces gleaming from that dusk demoniacly. It was a concealed
room, entered by secret ways, unknown to others than these.

When she had written, she sealed.

"There is no more to await. Adieu," she said.

"It is some transfer of property, some legal paper, some sale, some gift," I said to myself,
as I watched them take it and depart. Then she was alone again. I saw her start up, pace the
narrow spot,--saw her stand and pull down the masses, so interspersed with golden light, that
crowned her head, and look at them wonderingly as they overlay her fingers,--then saw those
fingers clasped across the eyes, and the lips part with a sigh that, prolonged and deepened,
grew to be a groan,--while all the time that shadow on the ceiling hovered and fluttered and
grew still, till it seemed the cluster of Eumenides waiting to pounce on its prey. In another
pause I had taken the perilous step, had hung by the crumbling rock, the rending vine, had
entered and was beside her. A cold horror iced her face; she warned me away with her trembling
hands.

"What have you seen?" she said.

"You, O my love, in grief."

"And no more?"

"I have seen you give a letter to the Neapolitan, who departs to-morrow with the little Viennois,--perhaps
to your friends at home."

"And that is all?"

"That is all."

"I have no friends at home. To whom, then, could the letter be?"

"How should I divine?"

"It was for the Austrian Government! Now love me, if you dare!"

"And do you suppose I did not know it?"

"Then is your love for me but a shield and mask?"

As I gazed in reply, my steady eyes, the soul that kindled my smile, my open arms, all must
have asseverated for me the truth of my devotion.

"Still?" she said. "Still? And you can keep your faith to me and to Italy?"

What was this doubt of me, this stain she would have cast upon my honor? That armor's polish
was too intense to sustain it; it rolled off like a cloud from heaven. Italy's fortunes were
my fortunes; it was impossible for me to betray them; this woman I would win to wed them. How
long, how long my blood had felt this thing in her! how long my brain had rebelled! In a proud
innocence, I stood with folded arms, and could afford to smile.

"Stay!" she said again, after our mute gaze, and laying her hand upon my arm. "You shall not
love me in vain, you shall not trust me for nothing. Your cause is mine to-day. That is the
last message I send to Vienna."

And then I believed her.

The light, slanting up, crept in and touched the brow of an ideal bust of Mithras which she
had invested with her faintly-faded wreath of heliotropes; their fragrance falling through
the place already made the atmosphere more rich than that of chest of almond-wood,--this perfume
that is like the soul of the earth itself exhaled to the amorous air. Behind an alabaster shrine
she lighted a holy-taper, slowly to waste and pale in the spreading day. We went to the window,
where among the ivy-nooks day's life was just astir with gaudy wings.

"All will be seeking you, and yet you cannot go," she said.

"Why can I not go?"

"It is broad morning."

"And what of that?"

"One thing. You shall not compromise yourself, going from the house of an Austrian woman and
worse!"

She was too winningly imperious to fail. I delayed, and together we looked out on the rosy sky.

"Come down," she said at last, "and on an arbor-moss the sun shall drowse you, the flower-scents
be your opiates, the birds your lullaby, and I your guard."

We went, and, wandering again through the garden-paths, she brushed the dew with her trailing
festal garments, and plucked the great blue convolvuli to crown her forehead. Soon, on a plot
of Roman violets, screened by tall trees and trellises, we breakfasted. One might have said
that the cloth was laid above giant mushroom-stems, the service acorn-cups and calices of milky
blooms; golden was the honey-comb we broke, manna was our bread; she caught the water in her
hand from the fountain and pledged me, and swift as sunshine I bent forward and prevented the
thirsty lips. Then she laid my head on her shoulder, with her cool finger-tips she stroked
the temples and soothed the lids, they fell and closed on the vision bending above me,--loveliness
like painting, pallor that was waxen, yellow tresses wreathed with azure stars, eyes that caught
the hue again and absorbed all Tyrian dyes.

The plash and bubble of waters swooned dreamily about my ears, and far off it seemed I heard
the wild, sad songs of her native land, that now in tinkling tune, and now in long, slow rise
and fall of mellow sound, swathed me with sweet satiety to dreamless rest.

The sun stole round and rose above the screen of trees at last and woke me. I was alone, the
silent statues looked on me, the breath of the dark violets crushed by my weight rose in shrouding
incense. I lifted myself and searched for her, and asked why I must needs believe each hour
of joy a dream,--then went and cooled my brow in the lucent basin at hand, and waited till
she came, in changed raiment, and gliding toward me as the Spirit of Noon might have come.
She led me in, well refreshed, and in the cool north rooms of the palace the warm hours of
the day slipped like beads from a leash. It scarcely seemed her fingers that touched the harp
to tune, but as if some herald of sirocco, some faint, hot breeze, had brushed between the
strings. It scarcely seemed her voice that talked to me, but something distant as the tone
in a sad sea-shell. What I said I knew not; I was in a maze, bewildered with bliss; I only
knew I loved her, I only felt my joy.

She told me many things: stories of her mountain-home, in distant view of the old fortress
of Hellberg,--this is the fortress of Hellberg, Anselmo,--of her youth, her maidenhood, her
life in Vienna, her lovers in Venice, her health, that had sent her finally there where we
sat together.

"I thought it sad," she said at length, "when they exiled me, so to say, from Vienna and all
my gay career there, because Venice, with its water-breaths, might heal my attainted health,--and
sadder when the winter bade me leave night-tides and gondolas and repair to Rome. Now spring
has come, and all the hills are blue with these deep violets, the very air is balm, the year
is at flood, and life at what seems its height is perfected with you."

"But you love that land you left?" I replied, after a while, and lifting her face to meet my gaze.

"Love it? Oh, yes! You love your land as you love a person in whose veins and yours kindred
blood runs, because it is hardly possible to do otherwise. The land gave me life, that is all;
I never knew till lately that it was anything to be thankful for. It is not sufficiently a
country to kindle enthusiasm; it has no national life, you know,--is an automaton put through
its motions by paid and cunning mechanists. I thought it right to obey orders and serve it.
But now you are my country,--I serve only you."

It was easy so to pass to my own hopes, to my own life, to my land, the land to which I had
vowed the last drop of blood in my gift. Her eyes beamed upon me, smiles rippled over her face,
she clasped me now and then and sealed my brow with kisses. Soon I left her side and strode
from end to end of the long salon, speaking eagerly of the future that opened to Italy. I told
her how the beautiful corpse lay waiting its resurrection, and how the Angel of Eternal Life
hovered with spreading wings above, ready to sound his general trump. My pulses beat like trip-hammers,
and as I passed a mirror I saw myself white with the excitement that fired me.

"You are wild with your joyous emotion," she said, coming forward and clinging round me. "Your
eyes flame from depths of darkness. What, after all, is Italy to you, that your blood should
boil in thinking of her wrongs? These people, for whom in your terrible magnanimity, I feel
that you would sacrifice even me, to-morrow would turn and rend you!"

"No, no!" I answered. "All things but you! You, you, are before my country!"

The tears filled her large, serious eyes, her lips quivered in melancholy smile, as sunshine
plays with shower over autumn woodlands. Was I not right? Right, though the universe declare
me wrong! I would do it all again; if she loved me, she had authority to be first of all in
my care; in love lie the highest duties of existence.

I had forgotten the subject on which we spoke; I was thinking only of her, her beauty, her
tenderness, and the debt of deathless devotion that I owed her. It was otherwise in her thought;
she had not dropped the old thread, but, looking up, resumed.

"It is, then, an idea that you serve?"

Brought back from my reverie, "Could I serve a more worthy master?" I asked.

"You do not particularly love your countrymen, nine-tenths of whom you have never seen? You
do not particularly hate the hostile race, nine-tenths of whom you have never seen?"

"Abstractly, I hate them. Kindliness of heart prevents individual hatred, and without kindliness
of heart in the first place there can be no pure patriotism."

"And for the other part. What do you care for these men who herd in the old tombs, raise a
pittance of vetch, and live the life of brutes? what for the lazzaroni of Naples, for the brigands
of Romagua, the murderers of the Apennine? Nay, nothing, indeed. It is, then, for the land
that you care, the mere face of the country, because it entombs myriad ancestors, because it
is familiar in its every aspect, because it overflows with abundant beauty. But is the land
less fair when foreign sway domineers it? do the blossoms cease to crowd the gorge, the mists
to fill it with rolling color? is the sea less purple around you, the sky less blue above,
the hills, the fields, the forests, less lavishly lovely?"

"Yes, the land is less fair," I said. "It is a fair slave. It loses beauty in the proportion
of difference that exists between any two creatures,--the one a slave of supple symmetry and
perfect passivity, the other a daring woman who stands nearer heaven by all the height of her
freedom. And for these people of whom you speak, first I care for them because they are my
countrymen,--and next, because the idea which I serve is a purpose to raise them into free
and responsible agents."

"Each man does that for himself; no one can do it for another."

"But any one may remove the obstacles from another's way, scatter the scales from the eyes
of the blind, strip the dead coral from the reef."

She took yellow honeysuckles from a vase of massed amethyst and began to weave them in her
yellow hair,--humming a tune, the while, that was full of the subtilest curves of sound. Soon
she had finished, and finished the fresh thought as well.

"Do you know, my own," she said, "the men who begin as hierophants of an idea are apt to lose
sight of the pure purpose, and to become the dogged, bigoted, inflexible, unreasoning adherents
of a party? All leaders of liberal movements should beware how far they commit themselves to
party-organizations. Only that man is free. It is easier to be a partisan than a patriot."

I laughed.

"Lady, you are like all women who talk politics, however capable they may be of acting them.
You immediately beg the question. We are speaking of patriotism, not of partisanship."

"You it was who forsook the subject. You know nothing about it; you confess that it is with
you merely a blind instinct; you cannot tell me even what patriotism is."

"Stay!" I replied. "All love is instinct in the germ. Can you define the yearnings that the
mother feels toward her child, the tie that binds son to father? Then you can define the sentiment
that attaches me to the land from whose breast I have drawn life. The love of country is more
invisible, more imponderable, more inappreciable than the electricity that fills the air and
flows with perpetual variation from pole to pole of the earth. It is as deep, as unsearchable,
as ineffable as the power which sways me to you. It is the sublimation of other affection.
A portion of you has always gone out into the material spot where you have been, a portion
of that has entered you, your past life is entwined with river and shore. You become the country,
and the country becomes a part of God. Those who love their country, love the vast abstraction,
can almost afford not to love God. She is a beneficence, she is a shield, something for which
to do and die, something for worship, ideal, grand; and though the sky is their only roof,
the earth their only bed, affluent are they who have a land! Passion rooted deeply as the foundations
of the hills: a man may adore one woman, but in adoring his land the aggregation of all men's
love for all other women overwhelms him and accentuates to a fuller emotion. It is unselfish,
impersonal, sheer sentiment clarified at its white heat from all interest and deceit, the noblest
joy, the noblest sorrow. Bold should they be, and pure as the priests who bore the ark, that
dare to call themselves patriots. And those, Lenore, who live to see their country's hopeless
ruin, plunge into a sadness at heart that no other loss can equal, no remaining blessing mitigate,--neither
the devotion of a wife nor the perfection of a child. You have seen exiles from a lost land?
Pride is dead in them, hope is dead, ambition is dead, joy is dead. Tell me, would you choose
me to suffer the personal loss of love and you, a loss I could hide in my aching soul, or to
bear those black marks of gall and melancholy which forever overshadow them in widest grief
and gloom?"

She had sunk upon a seat, and was looking up at me with a pained unwavering glance, as if in
my words she foresaw my fate.

"You are too intense!" she cried. "Your tones, your eyes, your gestures, make it an individual
thing with you."

"And so it is!" I exclaimed. "I cannot sleep in peace, nor walk upon the ways, while these
Austrian bayonets take my sunshine, these threatening approaching French banners hide the fair
light of heaven!"

"Come," she said, rising. "Speak no more. I am tired of the burden of the ditty, dear; and
it may do you such injury yet that already I hate it. Come out again into our garden with me.
Dismiss these cares, these burning pains and rankling wounds. Be soothed by the cool evening
air, taste the gorgeous quiet of sunset, gather peace with the dew."

So we went. I trusted her the more that she differed from me, that then she promised to love
Italy only because I loved it. I told her my secret schemes, I took her advice on points of
my own responsibility, I learned the joy of help and confidence in one whom you deem devotedly
true. Finally we remained without speech, stood long heart to heart while the night fell around
us like a curtain; her eyes deepened from their azure noon-splendor and took the violet glooms
of the hour, a great planet rose and painted itself within them; again and again I printed
my soul on her lips ere I left her.

At first, when I was sure that I was once more alone in the streets, I could not shake from
myself the sense of her presence. I could not escape from my happiness, I was able to bring
my thought to no other consideration. I reached home mechanically, slept an hour, performed
the routine of bath and refreshment, and sought my former duties. But how changed seemed all
the world to me! what air I breathed! in what light I worked! Still I felt the thrilling pressure
of those kisses on my lips, still those dear embraces!

So days passed on. I worked faithfully for the purpose to which I was so utterly committed
that let that be lost and I was lost! We were victorious; after the banner fell in Lombardy
to soar again in Venice and to sink, the Republic struggled to life; Rome rose once more on
her seven hills, free and grand, child and mother of an idea, the idea of national unity, of
independence and liberty from Tyrol to Sicily. My God! think of those dear people who for the
first time said, "We have a country!"

Yet how could we have hoped then to continue? Such brief success dazzled us to the past. Piedmont
had long since struck the key-note of Italy's fortunes. As Charles Albert forsook Milan and
suffered Austria once more to mouth the betrayed land and drip its blood from her heavy jaws,
till in a baptism of redder dye he absolved himself from the sin,--so woe heaped on woe, all
came to crisis, ruin, and loss,--the Republic fell, Rome fell, the French entered.

Our names had become too famous, our heroic defence too familiar, for us to escape unknown:
the Vascello had not been the only place where youth fought as the lioness fights for her whelps.
Many of us died. Some fled. Others, and I among them, remained impenetrably concealed in the
midst of our enemies. Weeks then dragged away, and months. New schemes chipped their shell.
Again the central glory of the land might rise revealed to the nations. We never lost courage;
after each downfall we rose like Antaeus with redoubled strength from contact with the beloved
soil, for each fall plunged us farther into the masses of the people, into closer knowledge
of them and kinder depths of their affection, and so, learning their capabilities and the warmth
of their hearts and the strength of their endurance, we became convinced that freedom was yet
to be theirs. Meanwhile, you know, our operations were shrouded in inscrutable secrecy; the
French held Rome in frowning terror and subjection; the Pope trembled on his chair, and clutched
it more franticly with his weak fingers: it was not even known that we, the leaders, were now
in the city; all supposed us to be awaiting quietly the turn of events, in some other land.
As if we ourselves were not events, and Italy did not hang on our motions! But, as I said,
all this time we were at work; our emissaries gave us enough to do: we knew what spoil the
robbers in the March had made, the decree issued in Vienna, the order of the day in Paris,
the last word exchanged between the Cardinals, what whispers were sibilant in the Vatican;
we mined deeper every day, and longed for the electric stroke which should kindle the spark
and send princes and principalities shivered widely into atoms. But, friend, this was not to
be. We knew one thing more, too: we knew at last that we also were watched,--when men sang
our songs in the echoing streets at night, and when each of us, and I, chief of all, renewed
our ancient fame, and became the word in every one's mouth, so that old men blessed us in the
way as we passed, wrapt, we had thought, in safe disguise, and crowds applauded. Thus again
we changed our habits, our rendezvous, our quarters, and again we eluded suspicion.

There came breathing-space. I went to her to enjoy it, as I would have gone with some intoxicating
blossom to share with her its perfume,--with any band of wandering harpers, that together our
ears might be delighted. I went as when, utterly weary, I had always gone and rested awhile
with her I loved in the sweet old palace-garden: I had my ways, undreamed of by army or police
or populace. There had I lingered, soothed at noon by the hum of the bee, at night by that
spirit that scatters the dew, by the tranquillity and charm of the place, ever rested by her
presence, the repose of her manner, the curve of her dropping eyelid, so that looking on her
face alone gave me pleasant dreams.

Now, as I entered, she threw down her work,--some handkerchief for her shoulders, perhaps,
or yet a banner for those unrisen men of Rome, I said,--a white silk square on which she had
wrought a hand with a gleaming sickle, reversed by tall wheat whose barbed grains bent full
and ripe to the reaper, and round the margin, half-pictured, wound the wild hedge-roses of
Paestum. She threw it down and came toward me in haste, and drew me through an inner apartment.

"He has returned, they say," she said presently,--mentioning the Neapolitan,--"and it would
be unfortunate, if you met."

"Unfortunate for him, if we met here!"

"How fearless! Yet he is subtler than the snake in Eden. I fear him as I detest him."

"Why fear him?"

"That I cannot tell. Some secret sign, some unspeakable intuition, assures me of injury through
him."

"Dearest, put it by. The strength of all these surrounding leagues with their swarm does not
flow through his wrist, as it does through mine. He is more powerless than the mote in the air."

"You are so confident!" she said.

"How can I be anything else than confident? The very signs in the sky speak for us, and half
the priests are ours, and the land itself is an oath. Look out, Lenore! Look down on these
purple fields that so sweetly are taking nightfall; look on these rills that braid the landscape
and sing toward the sea; see yonder the row of columns that have watched above the ruins of
their temple for centuries, to wait this hour; behold the heaven, that, lucid as one dome of
amethyst, darkens over us and blooms in star on star;--was ever such beauty? Ah, take this
wandering wind,--was ever such sweetness? And since every inch of earth is historic,--since
here rose glory to fill the world with wide renown,--since here the heroes walked, the gods
came down,--since Oreads haunt the hill, and Nereïds seek the shore"--

"Whereabout do Nereïds seek the shore?" she archly asked.

"Why, if you must have data," I answered, laughing, "let us say Naples."

"What is that you have to say of Naples?" demanded a voice in the door-way,--and turning, I
confronted the Neapolitan.

She had started back at the abrupt apparition, and before she could recover, stung by rage
and surprise I had replied,--

"What have I to say of Naples? That its tyrant walks in blood to his knees!"

A man, I, with my hot furies, to be intrusted with the commonwealth!

"I will trouble you to repeat that sentence at some day," he said.

"Here and now, if you will!" I uttered, my hand on my hilt.

"Thanks. Not here and now. It will answer, if you remember it then.--I hope I see Her Highness
well. Pardon this little brusquerie, I pray. The southern air is kind to loveliness: I regret
to bring with me Her Highness's recall."

She replied in the same courteous air, inquired concerning her acquaintance, and ordered lights,--took
the letter he brought, and held it, still sealed, in the taper's flame till it fell in ashes.

"Signor," she said, lifting the white atoms of dust and sifting them through her fingers, "you
may carry back these as my reply."

"Nay, I do not return," he answered. "And, Signorina, many things are pardoned to one in--your
condition. Recover your senses, and you will find this so among others."

Then, as coolly as if nothing had happened, he spoke of the affairs of the day, the tendency
of measures, the feeling of the people, and finally rose, kissed her hand, and departed. He
was joined without by the little Viennois, and the accursed couple sauntered down the street
together. I should have gone then,--the place was no longer safe for me,--but something, the
old spell, yet detained me.

Lenore did not speak, but threw open all the windows and doors that were closed.

"Let us be purified of his presence, at least!" she cried, when this was done.

"And you have ceased to fear this man whom you have dared so offend?" I asked.

"He is not offended," said Lenore. "Austria is not Naples. He will not transmit my reply till
he is utterly past hope."

"Hope of what?"

"Of my hand."

"Lenore! Then put him beyond hope now! Become my wife!"

"Ah,--if it were less unwise"--

"If you loved me, Lenore, you would not think of that."

"And you doubt it? Why should I, then, say again that I love you,--I love you?"

Ah, friend, how can I repeat those words? Never have I given her endearments again to the air:
sacred were they then, sacred now, however false. Ah, passionate words! oh, sweet issimos!
tender intonations! how deeply, how deeply ye lie in my soul! Let me repeat but one sentence:
it was the, key to my destiny.

"Yes, yes," she said, rising from my arms, "already I do you injury. You think oftener of me
than of Italy."

It was true. I sprang to my feet and began pacing the floor, as I sought to recall any instance
in which I had done less than I might for my country. The cool evening-breeze, and the bell-notes
sinking through the air from distant old campaniles, soothed my tumult, and, turning, I said,--

"My devotion to you sanctifies my devotion to her. And not only for her own sake do I work,
but that you, you, Lenore, may have a land where no one is your master, and where your soul
may develop and become perfect."

"And those who have not such object, why do they work?"

Then first I felt that I had fallen from the heights where my companions stood. This ardent
patriotism of mine was sullied, a stain of selfishness rose and blotted out my glory, others
should wear the conquering crowns of this grand civic game. Oh, friend! that was sad enough,
but it was inevitable. Here is where the crime came in,--that, knowing this, I still continued
as their leader, suffered them to call me Master and Saviour, and walked upon the palms they
spread.

Lenore mistook my silence.

"You cannot tell me why they work?" she said. "From habit, from fear, because committed? It
cannot be, then, that they are in earnest, that they are sincere, that they care a rush for
this cause so holy to you. They have entered into it, as all this common people do, for the
love of a new excitement, for the pleasurable mystery of conspiracy, for the self-importance
and gratulation. They will scatter at the signal of danger, like mischievous boys when a gendarme
comes round the corner. They will betray you at the lifting of an Austrian finger. Leave them!"

This was too much to hear in silence,--to hear of these faithful comrades, who had endured
everything, and were yet to overcome because they possessed their souls in patience, each of
whom stood higher before God than I in unspotted public purity, and whose praise and love led
me constantly to larger effort. At least I would make them the reparation of vindication.

"You mistrust them?" I exclaimed. "They whose souls have been tried in the furnace, who have
the temper of fine steel, pliant as gold, but incorruptible as adamant,--heroes and saints,
they stand so low in your favor? Come, then, come with me now,--for the bells have struck the
hour, and shadows clothe the earth,--come to their conclave where discovery is death, and judge
if they be idle prattlers, or men who carry their lives in their hands!"

Fool! Fool! Fool! Every sound in the air cries out that word to me: the bee that wings across
the tower hums it in my ear; the booming alarm-bell rings it forth; my heart, my failing heart,
beats it while I speak. I would have carried a snake to the sacred ibis-nest, and thenceforth
hope was hollow as an egg-shell!

She ran from the room, but, pausing in the door-way, exclaimed,--

"Remember, if you take me there, that I am no Roman patriot,--I! I, who am of the House of
Austria, that House that wears the crown of the Caesars, those Caesars who swayed the very
imperial sceptre, who trailed the very imperial purple of old Rome! I endure the cause because
it is yours. I beseech you to be faithful to it; because I should despise you, if for any woman
you swerved from an object that had previously been with you holier than heaven!"

I stood there leaning from the lofty window, and looking down over the wide, solitary fields.
Recollections crowded upon me, hopes rose before me. One day, that yet lives in my heart, Anselmo,
sprang up afresh, a day forever domed in memory. Fair rose the sun that day, and I walked on
the nation's errands through the streets of a distant town,--a hoar and antique place, that
sheltered me safely, so slight guard was it thought to need by our oppressors! It pleased that
reverend arch-hypocrite to take at this hour his airing. Late events had given the people courage.
It was a market-day, peasants from the country obstructed the ancient streets, the citizens
were all abroad. Not few were the maledictions muttered over a column of French infantry that
wound along as it returned to Rome from some movement of subjection, not low the curses showered
on an officer who escorted ladies upon their drive. As I went, I considered what a day it would
have been for émeute, and what mortal injury émeute would have done our cause. Italy, we said,
like fools, but honest fools, must not be redeemed with blood. As if there were ever any sacred
pact, any new order of things, that was not first sealed by blood! Therefore, when I, alone
perhaps of all the throng, saw one man--a man in whose soul I knew the iron rankled--stealing
behind the crowd, behind the monuments, and, as the coach of His Excellency rolled luxuriously
along, levelling a glittering barrel,--it was but an instant's work to seize the advancing
creatures, to hold them rearing,--and then a deadly flash,--while the ball whistled past me,
grazed my hand, and pierced the leader's heart. In a twinkling the dead horse was cut away,
and His Excellency, cowering in the bottom of the coach, galloped borne more swiftly than the
wind, without a word. But the populace appreciated the action, took it up with vivas long and
loud, that rang after me when I had slipped away, and before nightfall had echoed in all ears
through leagues of country round. I went that night to the theatre. The house was filled, and,
as we entered, a murmur went about, and then cries broke forth,--the multitude rose with cheers
and bravos, calling my name, intoxicated with enthusiasm, and dazzled, not by a daring feat,
but by the spirit that prompted it. Women tore off their jewels to twist them into a sling
for my injured hand; men rose and made me a conqueror's ovation; the orchestra played the old
Etrurian hymns of freedom; I was attended home with a more than Roman triumph of torch and
song, stately men and beautiful women. But chameleons change their tint in the sunshine, and
why should men always march under one color? Friend, not six months later there came another
day, when triumph was shame,--plaudits, curses,--joyous tumult, scorching silence. Oh!-- But
I shall come to that in time. Now let me hasten; the hours are less tardy than I, and they
bring with them my last.

Thought of this day--sole pageant defiling through memory--was startled again by the far, sweet
sound of a bell, some bell ringing twilight out and evening in across the wide Campagna. I
wondered what delayed Lenore. Did it take so long to toss off the cloudy back-falling veil,
to wrap in any long cloak her gown of white damask and all the sheen of her milky pearl-dusters
and fiery rubies? I thought with exultation then of what she was so soon to see,--of the route
through sunken ruins, down wells forsaken of their pristine sources and hidden by masses of
moss, winding with the faint light in our hands through the awful ways and avenues of the catacombs.
The scene grew real to me, as I mused. Alone, what should I fear? These silent hosts encamped
around would but have cheered their child. But with her, every murmur becomes a portent of
danger, every current of air gives me fresh tremors; as we pass casual openings into the sky,
the vault of air, the glint of stars, shall seem a malignant face; I fancy to hear impossible
footsteps behind us, some bone that crumbling falls from its shelf makes my heart beat high,
her dear hand trembles in my hold, and, full of a new and superstitious awe, I half fear this
ancient population of the graves will rise and surround us with phantom array. Now and then,
a cold, lonely wind, blowing from no one knows where, rises and careers past us, piercing to
the marrow. I think, too, of that underground space, half choked with rubbish, into which we
are to emerge at last, once the hall of some old Roman revel. I see the troubled flashes flung
from the flaring torch over our assembly. Alert and startled, I see Lenore listen to the names
as if they summoned the wraiths and not the bodies of men whom she had supposed to be lost
in the pampas of Paraguay, dead in the Papal prisons, sheltered in English homes, or tossing
far away on the long voyages of the Pacific seas. I see myself at length taking the torch from
its niche and restoring it, as a hundred times before, to Pietro da Valambo, while it glitters
on some strange object looking in at the vine-clad opening above with its breaths of air, serpent
or hare, or the large face and slow eyes of a browsing buffalo. And as I think, lo! an echo
in the house, a dull tramp in the hall, a stealthy tread in the room, a heavy hand upon my
shoulder,--I was arrested for high treason.

Do not think I surrendered then. Without a struggle I would be the prize of Pope nor King nor
Kaiser! I shook the minions' grasp from my shoulder, I flashed my sword in their eyes; and
not till the crescent of weapons encircled me in one blinding gleam, vain grew defence, vain
honor, vain bravery. Of what use was my soul to me thenceforth? I became but carrion prey.
I fell, and the world fell from me.

Sensation, emotion, awoke from their swooning lapse only in the light of day, the next or another,
I knew not which. I was lifted from some conveyance, I saw blue reaches of curving bay and
the great purifying priest of flame, and knew I was in the city guarded by its pillar of cloud
by day, of fire by night. I had reason to know it, when, yet unfed, unrested, faint, smirched
and smeared with blood and travel, loaded with chains, I was brought to a tribunal where sat
the sleek and subtle tyrant of Naples.

"Signor," said a bland voice from the king's side,--and looking in its direction, I encountered
the Neapolitan,--"Signor, I lately said that at some day I would trouble you to repeat a brilliant
sentence addressed to me. The day has arrived. I scarcely dared dream it would be so soon.
Shall we listen?"

I was silent: not that I feared to say it; they could but finish their play.

Then I saw the beautifully cut lips of my judge part, that the voice might slide forth, and,
taking a comfit, he tittered, with unchanging tint and sweetest tone, the three words, "Apply
the question."

Why should I endure that for a whim? Who courts torment? Already they drew near with the cunning
instruments. Let me say it, and what then? Nothing worse than torture. Let me not say it, and
certainly torture. Oh, I was weaker than a child! my body ruled my spirit with its exhaustion
and pain. Yet there was a certain satisfaction in flinging the words in their faces. I waved
back with my remaining arm the slaves who approached.

"You should allow a weary man the time to collect his thoughts," I said, and then turned to
my persecutors. "I have spoken with you many times, Signor," I replied to the Neapolitan, "yet
of all our words I can remember none but these, that you could care to hear with this auditory.
I said,--that the tyrant of Naples walks in blood to his knees!"

The Neapolitan smiled. The king rose.

"Well said!" he murmured, in his silvery tones. "One that knows so much must know more. Exhaust
his knowledge, I pray. Do not spare your courtesies; remember he is my guest. I leave him in
your hands."

He fixed me with his eye,--that darkly-glazed eye, devoid of life, of love, of joy, as if he
were the thing of another element,--then bowed and passed away.

"The urbanity of His Majesty is too well known to suppose it possible that he should prove
you a liar," said the Neapolitan.

Truly, I was loft in their hands! Shall I tell you of the charities I found there? Not I, friend!
it would wring your heart as dry of tears as mine was wrung of groans. At last I was alone,
it seemed,--on a wet stone floor, sweat pouring from every muscle, each fibre quivering; I
was distorted and unjointed, I only hoped I was dying. But no, that was too good for me. Anselmo,
how can I but be full of scoffs, when I remember those hours, those ages? The cold dampness
of the place crept into my bones; I became swollen and teeming with intimate pain. But that
was light, my body might have ached till the throbs stiffened into death-spasms, and yet the
suffering had been nought, compared with that loathing and disgust in my soul. It had seemed
that I was alone, I said. Alone as the corpse in unshrouded grave! I was in a charnel-house.
Men who were sinless as you hung dead upon the wall, hung dying there. Darkness covered all
things at a distance, sighs crept up from far corners, chains clanked, or imprecations or prayer
uttered themselves,--bodiless voices in the night. I did not know what untold horror there
might yet be hid. I heard the drip of water from the black vaults; I heard the short, fierce
pants and deadly groans. Oh, worst infliction of Hell's armory it is to see another suffer!
Why was it allowed, Anselmo? Did it come in the long train of a broken law? was it one of the
dark places of Providence? or was it indeed the vile compost to mature some beautiful germ?
Ah, then, is it possible that Heaven looks on us so in the mass?

But for me, after a while I lay torpid, and then perchance I slept, for finally I opened my
eyes and found the white strong light; T lay on a bed, and a surgeon handled me. Too elastic
was I to be long crushed, once the weight removed. Soon I breathed fresh air; and save that
my frame had become in its distortion hideous, I was the same as before.

Then, indeed, began my torture,--torture to which this had been idle jest. I was taken once
more to the room of tribunal. Beside the Neapolitan a woman sat veiled and shrouded in masses
of sable drapery. "A queen?" I thought, "or a slave?" But I had no further room for fancy;
the same interrogatories as before were given me to answer, and then I felt why I had been
nursed back to life. In the months that had elapsed, I could not know if Italy were saved or
lost, if Naples tottered or remained impregnable. I stood only on my personal basis of right
or wrong. I refused to open my lips. They wheeled forward a low bed that I knew well. Oh, the
slow starting of the socket! Oh, the long wrench of tendon and nerve! A bed of steel and cords,
rollers and levers, bound me there, and bent to their creaking toil. I was strong to endure;
I had set my teeth and sworn myself to silence; no woman should hear me moan. Even in this
misery I saw that she who sat there, shaking, fell.

The tyrant was lily-livered; seldom he witnessed what others died under; he intended nothing
further then;--many men who faint at sight of blood can probe a soul to its utmost gasp. Now
he motioned, and they paused. Then others lifted the woman and held her beside him, yet a little
in advance.

"Keep your silence," said he, in a voice unrecognizable, and as if a wild beast, half-glutted,
should speak, "and I keep her! She is in my power. Mine, and you know what that means. Mine,"
and he bent toward me, "body and--soul. To use, to blast, to destroy, to tear piecemeal,--as
I will do, so help me God! unless you meet my condition." And extending his hand, he drew aside
the black veil, and my eye lay on the face of Lenore, thin and white as the familiar faces
of corpses, and utterly insensible in swoon.

All, that mortal horror stops my pulse! Was I wrong? Why not have borne that, too? Had she
loved me, she had chosen it, chosen it rather. And death would have made all right!--God! why
not have seized some poignard lying there? why not have sprung upon her, have slain her? Then
silence had been simply secure. Then I could have smiled in their frustrated faces, one keen,
deep smile, and died. I was dissolved in pain, writhed with prolonged strokes that thrilled
me from head to foot, pierced as with acute stabs, my heart seemed to forge thunderbolts to
break upon my brain,--but this agony had been spared me. They unbound me, fed me with some
stimulating cordial, gave me cold air, and I rose on my elbow a little.

"Swear!" I said, hoarsely. "But you do not keep oaths. God help you? Never! There must be a
Hell to help you! Imprecate this, then, on yourself! May you in your smooth white body know
the torture I have known, be racked till each bone in your skin changes place, hang festering
in chains from the wall of a living grave, make fellowship with putridity, and lie in the pitiless
dark to see all the dead who died under your hand rise, rise and accuse you before God! And
may your little son know the deeds you have done, live the life those deeds merit, and die
the death that I shall die,--if you do not keep your word!"

"What word?" he said.

"Promise, if I reveal all, and my revelations shall be true and thorough therefore,--promise
that you will leave her in safe security and freedom to-day, untouched, unscathed, unharmed,
and that so ever shall she remain. And false to this oath, may no priest shrive you, no land
own you, God blight you and curse you and wither you from the face of the earth!"

And taking a crucifix, he swore the oath.

Then they busied themselves about Lenore, revived her, soothed her, gave her of the same cordial
to drink, and placed her once more in her daïs-seat. Her veil was thrown back, her wide blue
eyes fixed on me in intense strain, her face and lips still blanched more bitterly beneath
that hue, her features sharp as chisel-graven death. Ah, God! must I endure that too? Was she
to hear me,--she, not knowing why, never knowing why,--she in whom that look of aching passion
and pity was to die out and freeze and fade in one of utter scorn?

They brought me some strange draught, as if one swallowed fire. The blood coursed richly through
my shrunken veins; I felt filled with a different life. I arose and left that bed of torture,
but came back to it as to my rest.

And lying there, I betrayed Italy.

Root and branch and spray and leaf, I uprooted all my memories; I forgot no name, I lost no
fact; I was eagerer than they; I modified nothing, I abbreviated nothing; the past, the future,
what had been, was to be, plan and scheme and supreme purpose, I never faltered, I told the whole!

I did not look at her, I kept my eyes on the tyrant; I wished I might have the evil eye,--but
that gift was for him, the Neapolitan. Yet at length I heard a low moan trailing toward me;
I turned, and saw her face, as I saw it last, Anselmo,--stonily quiet, frozen from indignant
pain to icy apathy, and the words she would have said had hissed inarticulately through her
ashen lips. Then they brought me the confession, and, as I could, I signed it.

"Madame," said the tyrant, "your knowledge is coextensive with his. Does all this agree?"

"Sire, it does agree," she answered, and they led her out.

"I have no authority over you," said the tyrant then to me. "You might go freely now, but that,
precious as Homer, seven cities claim you, Signor! My prisons also will now be full of rarer
game. But as a crime of your commission places you within Austrian jurisdiction, I shall take
pleasure in presenting you to my cousin and surrendering you to his mercy," and he withdrew.

"You may not be aware," said the courteous Neapolitan, "that on the night of your arrest your
frantic sword-slashes had serious result. My friend the little Viennois fell at your hands."

through dazzling rings of light, and I fell forward in the cart and hung by my chains among
the hoofs of the trampling horses who dragged me. On that day I had taken my last step; I never
set foot on the round earth again. But, with all, I smiled through my groans; for the shining,
solid hoofs that did their work on me did their work as well on the man who walked by my side,--dashed
dead the accursed Neapolitan.

They were not the surgeons of Naples who essayed to galvanize volition through my paralyzed
limbs, but those who knew the utmost resources of their art. And so I lived,--lived, too, by
reason of my inextinguishable vitality, by reason of this spark that will not quench,--and
so I came to Hellberg. It would have been mockery to give this shapeless hulk to sentence,
and then to headsman or hangman; perhaps, too, her haughty name had been involved; and so I
was never brought to trial, and so I am at Hellberg.

And I have never set foot on the ground again. But, oh, to touch it for a moment, to sit anywhere
on the summer mould, to pull down the sun-quivering, sun-steeped branches about me, to scent
the fresh grass as it springs to the light! Oh. but to touch the sweet, kind earth, the warm
earth, silent with ineffable tenderness and soothing, to feel it under my hand, to lay my cheek
there for a moment, while it drew away pain and weariness with its absorbing, purifying power!
Oh, but to lie once more where the blossoms grow! Soon, soon, they will grow above me! Soon
the kind mother will cover me!

       *       *       *       *       *

What had happened in the outer world I knew not till you came. I fancied Lenore returned, breathing
Austrian air, and living under the same horizon that girds me in. Sometimes I have seen a distant
cavalcade skimming over the vale, as once we careered over the Campagna, when she handled her
steed as another woman handles her needle, and the sweet wind fanned peach-tints to her cheeks
and drew out unravelled braids of gold in lingering caress. She could have come to me, had
she pleased, then: this old chief who rules the place was her father's friend and hers.--But
look I but see! Who is it comes now,--sweeps round the donjon flank? Lean over the embrasure,
and learn! Ah, man, are my eyes so old, my memories so treacherous, that I do not know day
from night? They have gone on,--or did they enter, think you? Or yet, there is to be carousal,
perhaps, in the halls beyond and below, and she comes to join the gay feast; she will drink
healths in red wine, will listen to flattering dalliance with pleased eyes, will utter light
laughs through the lips that once glowed to my kisses, and will forget that the same roof which
shelters the revellers shelters also her lover dying in moans! Careless--Best so! best so!
What cavalier whispered in her ear as she passed? Have years tarnished her beauty? Ah, God!
this wind, that maddens me now, a moment since touched her!

Anselmo, I will go in. This vault of heaven with its spotless blue, this wide land that laughs
in festive summer, these winds that lift my hair and come heavy with odors,--these do not fit
with me, I burlesque the fair face of creation. O invisible airs, that softly sport round the
castle-towers, why do you not woo my soul forth and bear it and lose it in the flawless cope
of sky?

Nay, why, any more than Ajax, should I die in the dark? Never again will I enter the cell,
never again! The wide universe shall receive my breath. Lower the back of my chair, pull away
the cushions, wrap my cloak round me, Anselmo. There! I will lie, and wait, and look up. Give
me ghostly counsel, my friend, console me. You are not too weary with this long tale? Tell
me I needed all the tears I have shed to quench the fiery defiance, the independence of heaven
and tumult of earth in my being. If you could tell me that she had not been false, that she
never feigned her passion to decoy, that, Austrian though she were--Ah, but I had evidence!
I had evidence! his words, that ate out my life like gangrene and rust.--Speak slower, Anselmo,
slower. Can it be that I sinned most, when I held his words before hers,--his black damning
falsehoods?--Mother of God! do you know what you say?

Tell me, then, that I am a fool,--that not through other loss than the loss of faith did the
curse fall on me! Tell me, then, that these dark ways lead me out on a height! Needful the
shadow and the groping. He anointed my eyes with the clay beneath his feet,--I was blind, but
now I see God!

Repeat, Anselmo, repeat that she was true, though the knowledge blast me with self-consuming
pangs. But, true or false, one thing she promised me: though other spheres, though other lives
had come between us, she would be with me in my dying hour. Soon the bell will toll that hour,
and toll my knell!

       *       *       *       *       *

What is this, Anselmo,--this face that hangs between me and heaven,--this pitying, sorrowing
countenance?--Ave Maria!--Never! Never! Still of the earth, this melting mouth, these violet
eyes, this brow of snow, this fragrant bosom pillowing my head! Mirage of fainting fancy,--out,
beautiful thing, away! Do not torment me with such a despairing lie! do not cheat me into death!
Let me at least look on the unobstructed sky, as I sink lower and lower to my eternal rest!

       *       *       *       *       *

Still there? Still there? Still bending above me, smiling and weeping, sweet April face? Oh,
were they truly thy lips that lay on mine, then, that stamped them with life's impress, that
woke me? Are they truly thy fingers that pressed my throbless temples? These arms that are
wound about me, are thine? Thy heart beats for me, thy tears flow, thy perfect womanhood does
not recoil in horror? Lenore! Lenore! is it thou?

       *       *       *       *       *

Nay, nay, Sweet, ask me no question; I have wronged thee; he shall tell thee how. Yet best
thou shouldst never hear it. Sin to thee greater than all treachery had been. Forgive, forgive!
I go,--in meeting, leave thee; but be glad for me,--whether I sleep or whether I wake, know
that a great curse will have fallen from me. Swathe my memory in thy love. Kiss me again, child!
Rock me a little; stoop lower, and croon those old mountain-songs that once you sang when the
sunshine soaked the sward and your hair was crowned with blue morning-glories.

Ah, your song drowns in tears! Yet you do not wish me to live, Lenore? O love, I can do nothing
but die!

The sunlight fades from the hills, the air wavers and glimmers, and day is dim. Thy face is
mistier than a vision of angels. There are faint, strange voices in my ear, swift rustlings,
far harmonics;--has sense become so attenuated that I hear the blood in my failing pulses?
Lenore, love, lower. Thy lips to mine, and breathe my life away. Twice would I die to save thee!

--Anselmo! man! where art thou? Come back ere I fall,--strength flares up like a dying flame.
Never tell her why I betrayed Italy!

--Closer, dear love, closer! What old murmurs do I hear? O love, forever--kiss--forgive!--Lift
me, that I confront eternity and Christ!

AFTER "TAPS."

  Tramp! Tramp! Tramp! Tramp!
  As I lay with my blanket on,
  By the dim fire-light, in the moonlit night,
  When the skirmishing fight was done.

  The measured beat of the sentry's feet,
  With the jingling scabbard's ring!
  Tramp! Tramp! in my meadow-camp
  By the Shenandoah's spring.

  The moonlight seems to shed cold beams
  On a row of pale gravestones:
  Give the bugle breath, and that image of Death
  Will fly from the reveille's tones.

  By each tented roof, a charger's hoof
  Makes the frosty hill-side ring:
  Give the bugle breath, and a spirit of Death
  To each horse's girth will spring.

  Tramp! Tramp! Tramp! Tramp!
  The sentry, before my tent,
  Guards, in gloom, his chief, for whom
  Its shelter to-night is lent.

  I am not there. On the hill-side bare
  I think of the ghost within;
  Of the brave who died at my sword-hand side,
  To-day, 'mid the horrible din

  Of shot and shell and the infantry yell,
  As we charged with the sabre drawn.
  To my heart I said, "Who shall be the dead
  In my tent, at another dawn?"

  I thought of a blossoming almond-tree,
  The stateliest tree that I know;
  Of a golden bowl; of a parted soul;
  And a lamp that is burning low.

  Oh, thoughts that kill! I thought of the hill
  In the far-off Jura chain;
  Of the two, the three, o'er the wide salt sea,
  Whose hearts would break with pain;

  Of my pride and joy,--my eldest boy;
  Of my darling, the second--in years;
  Of Willie, whose face, with its pure, mild grace,
  Melts memory into tears;

  Of their mother, my bride, by the Alpine lake's side,
  And the angel asleep in her arms;
  Love, Beauty, and Truth, which she brought to my youth,
  In that sweet April day of her charms.

  "HALT! Who comes there?" The cold midnight air
  And the challenging word chill me through.
  The ghost of a fear whispers, close to my ear,
  "Is peril, love, coming to you?"

  The hoarse answer, "RELIEF," makes the shade of a grief
  Die away, with the step on the sod.
  A kiss melts in air, while a tear and a prayer
  Confide my beloved to God.

  Tramp! Tramp! Tramp! Tramp!
  With a solemn, pendulum-swing!
  Though I slumber all night, the fire burns bright,
  And my sentinels' scabbards ring.

         *       *       *       *       *

  "Boot and saddle!" is sounding. Our pulses are bounding.
  "To horse!" And I touch with my heel
  Black Gray in the flanks, and ride down the ranks,
  With my heart, like my sabre, of steel.

THE HUMAN WHEEL, ITS SPOKES AND FELLOES.

The starting-point of this paper was a desire to call attention to certain remarkable AMERICAN
INVENTIONS, especially to one class of mechanical contrivances, which, at the present time,
assumes a vast importance and interests great multitudes. The limbs of our friends and countrymen
are a part of the melancholy harvest which War is sweeping down with Dahlgren's mowing-machine
and the patent reapers of Springfield and Hartford. The admirable contrivances of an American
inventor, prized as they were in ordinary times, have risen into the character of great national
blessings since the necessity for them has become so widely felt. While the weapons that have
gone from Mr. Colt's armories have been carrying death to friend and foe, the beneficent and
ingenious inventions of MR. PALMER have been repairing the losses inflicted by the implements
of war.

The study of the artificial limbs which owe their perfection to his skill and long-continued
labor has led us a little beyond its first object, and finds its natural prelude in some remarks
on the natural limbs and their movements. Accident directed our attention, while engaged with
this subject, to the efforts of another ingenious American to render the use of our lower extremities
easier by shaping their artificial coverings more in accordance with their true form than is
done by the empirical cordwainer, and thus Dr. Plumer must submit to the coupling of some mention
of his praiseworthy efforts in the same pages with the striking achievements of his more aspiring
compatriot.

We should not tell the whole truth, if we did not own that we have for a long time been lying
in wait for a chance to say something about the mechanism of walking, because we thought we
could add something to what is known about it from a new source, accessible only within the
last few years, and never, so far as we know, employed for its elucidation, namely, the instantaneous
photograph.

       *       *       *       *       *

The two accomplishments common to all mankind are walking and talking. Simple as they seem,
they are yet acquired with vast labor, and very rarely understood in any clear way by those
who practise them with perfect ease and unconscious skill.

Talking seems the hardest to comprehend. Yet it has been clearly explained and successfully
imitated by artificial contrivances. We know that the moist membranous edges of a narrow crevice
(the glottis) vibrate as the reed of a clarionet vibrates, and thus produce the human bleat.
We narrow or widen or check or stop the flow of this sound by the lips, the tongue, the teeth,
and thus articulate, or break into joints, the even current of sound. The sound varies with
the degree and kind of interruption, as the "babble" of the brook with the shape and size of
its impediments,--pebbles, or rocks, or dams. To whisper is to articulate without bleating,
or vocalizing; to coo as babies do is to bleat or vocalize without articulating. Machines are
easily made that bleat not unlike human beings. A bit of India-rubber tube tied round a piece
of glass tube is one of the simplest voice-uttering contrivances. To make a machine that articulates
is not so easy; but we remember Maelzel's wooden children, which said, "Pa-pa" and "Ma-ma";
and more elaborate and successful speaking machines have, we believe, been since constructed.

But no man has been able to make a figure that can walk. Of all the automata imitating men
or animals moving, there is not one in which the legs are the true sources of motion. So said
the Webers[A] more than twenty years ago, and it is as true now as then. These authors, after
a profound experimental and mathematical investigation of the mechanism of animal locomotion,
recognize the fact that our knowledge is not yet advanced enough to hope to succeed in making
real walking machines. But they conceive that the time may come hereafter when colossal figures
will be constructed whose giant strides will not be arrested by the obstacles which are impassable
to wheeled conveyances.

[Footnote A: Traité de la Méchanique des Organes de la Locomotion, Translated from the German
in the Encyclopédie Anatomique. Paris, 1843.]

We wish to give our readers as clear an idea as possible of that wonderful art of balanced
vertical progression which they have practised, as M. Jourdain talked prose, for so many years,
without knowing what a marvellous accomplishment they had mastered. We shall have to begin
with a few simple anatomical data.

The foot is arched both longitudinally and transversely, so as to give it elasticity, and thus
break the sudden shock when the weight of the body is thrown upon it. The ankle-joint is a
loose hinge, and the great muscles of the calf can straighten the foot out so far that practised
dancers walk on the tips of their toes. The knee is another hinge-joint, which allows the leg
to bend freely, but not to be carried beyond a straight line in the other direction. Its further
forward movement is checked by two very powerful cords in the interior of the joint, which
cross each other like the letter X, and are hence called the crucial ligaments. The upper ends
of the thighbones are almost globes, which are received into the deep cup-like cavities of
the haunch-bones. They are tied to these last so loosely, that, if their ligaments alone held
them, they would be half out of their sockets in many positions of the lower limbs. But here
comes in a simple and admirable contrivance. The smooth, rounded head of the thighbone, moist
with glairy fluid, fits so perfectly into the smooth, rounded cavity which receives it, that
it holds firmly by suction, or atmospheric pressure. It takes a hard pull to draw it out after
all the ligaments are cut, and then it comes with a smack like a tight cork from a bottle.
Holding in this way by the close apposition of two polished surfaces, the lower extremity swings
freely forward and backward like a pendulum, if we give it a chance, as is shown by standing
on a chair upon the other limb, and moving the pendent one out of the vertical line. The force
with which it swings depends upon its weight, and this is much greater than we might at first
suppose; for our limbs not only carry themselves, but our bodies also, with a sense of lightness
rather than of weight, when we are in good condition. Accident sometimes makes us aware how
heavy our limbs are. An officer, whose arm was shattered by a ball in one of our late battles,
told us that the dead weight of the helpless member seemed to drag him down to the earth; he
could hardly carry it; it "weighed a ton," to his feeling, as he said.

In ordinary walking, a man's lower extremity swings essentially by its own weight, requiring
little muscular effort to help it. So heavy a body easily overcomes all impedimenta from clothing,
even in the sex least favored in its costume. But if a man's legs are pendulums, then a short
man's legs will swing quicker than a tall man's, and he will take more steps to a minute, other
things being equal. Thus there is a natural rhythm to a man's walk, depending on the length
of his legs, which beat more or less rapidly as they are longer or shorter, like metronomes
differently adjusted, or the pendulums of different time-keepers. Commodore Nutt is to M. Bihin
in this respect as a little, fast-ticking mantel-clock is to an old-fashioned, solemn-clicking,
upright time-piece.

The mathematical formulae in which the Messrs. Weber embody their results would hardly be instructive
to most of our readers. The figures of their Atlas would serve our purpose better, had we not
the means of coming nearer to the truth than even their careful studies enabled them to do.
We have selected a number of instantaneous stereoscopic views of the streets and public places
of Paris and of New York, each of them showing numerous walking figures, among which some may
be found in every stage of the complex act we are studying. Mr. Darley has had the kindness
to leave his higher tasks to transfer several of these to our pages, so that the reader may
be sure that he looks upon an exact copy of real human individuals in the act of walking.

The first subject is caught with his legs stretched in a stride, the remarkable length of which
arrests our attention. The sole of the right foot is almost vertical. By the action of the
muscles of the calf it has rolled off from the ground like a portion of the tire of a wheel,
the heel rising first, and thus the body, already advancing with all its acquired velocity,
and inclined forward, has been pushed along, and, as it were, tipped over, so as to fall upon
the other foot, now ready to receive its weight.

In the second figure, the right leg is bending at the knee, so as to lift the foot from the
ground, in order that it may swing forward.

The next stage of movement is shown in the left leg of figure 3. This leg is seen suspended
in air, a little beyond the middle of the arc through which it swings, and before it has straightened
itself, which it will presently do, as shown in the next figure.

The foot has now swung forward, and, tending to swing back again, the limb being straightened,
and the body tipped forward, the heel strikes the ground. The angle which the sole of the foot
forms with the ground increases with the length of the stride; and as this last surprised us,
so the extent of this angle astonishes us in many of the figures, in this among the rest.

The heel strikes the ground with great force, as the wear of our boots and shoes in that part
shows us. But the projecting heel of the human foot is the arm of a lever, haying the ankle-joint
as its fulcrum, and, as it strikes the ground, brings the sole of the foot down flat upon it,
as shown in figure 1. At the same time the weight of the limb and body is thrown upon the foot,
by the joint effect of muscular action and acquired velocity, and the other foot is now ready
to rise from the ground and repeat the process we have traced in its fellow.

No artist would have dared to draw a walking figure in attitudes like some of these. The swinging
limb is so much shortened that the toe never by any accident scrapes the ground, if this is
tolerably even. In cases of partial paralysis, the scraping of the toe, as the patient walks,
is one of the characteristic marks of imperfect muscular action.

Walking, then, is a perpetual falling with a perpetual self-recovery. It is a most complex,
violent, and perilous operation, which we divest of its extreme danger only by continual practice
from a very early period of life. We find how complex it is when we attempt to analyze it,
and we see that we never understood it thoroughly until the time of the instantaneous photograph.
We learn how violent it is, when we walk against a post or a door in the dark. We discover
how dangerous it is, when we slip or trip and come down, perhaps breaking or dislocating our
limbs, or overlook the last step of a flight of stairs, and discover with what headlong violence
we have been hurling ourselves forward.

Two curious facts are easily proved. First, a man is shorter when he is walking than when at
rest. We have found a very simple way of showing this by having a rod or yardstick placed horizontally,
so as to touch the top of the head forcibly, as we stand under it. In walking rapidly beneath
it, even if the eyes are shut, to avoid involuntary stooping, the top of the head will not
even graze the rod. The other fact is, that one side of a man always tends to outwalk the other,
so that no person can walk far in a straight line, if he is blindfolded.

The somewhat singular illustration at the head of our article carries out an idea which has
only been partially alluded to by others. Man is a wheel, with two spokes, his legs, and two
fragments of a tire, his feet. He rolls successively on each of these fragments from the heel
to the toe. If he had spokes enough, he would go round and round as the boys do when they "make
a wheel" with their four limbs for its spokes. But having only two available for ordinary locomotion,
each of these has to be taken up as soon as it has been used, and carried forward to be used
again, and so alternately with the pair. The peculiarity of biped-walking is, that the centre
of gravity is shifted from one leg to the other, and the one not employed can shorten itself
so as to swing forward, passing by that which supports the body.

This is just what no automaton can do. Many of our readers have, however, seen a young lady
in the shop-windows, or entertained her in their own nurseries, who professes to be this hitherto
impossible walking automaton, and who calls herself by the Homeric-sounding epithet Autoperipatetikos.
The golden-booted legs of this young lady remind us of Miss Kilmansegg, while their size assures
us that she is not in any way related to Cinderella. On being wound up, as if she were a piece
of machinery, and placed on a level surface, she proceeds to toddle off, taking very short
steps like a child, holding herself very stiff and straight, with a little lifting at each
step, and all this with a mighty inward whirring and buzzing of the enginery which constitutes
her muscular system.

An autopsy of one of her family who fell into our hands reveals the secret springs of her action.
Wishing to spare her as a member of the defenceless sex, it pains us to say, that, ingenious
as her counterfeit walking is, she is an impostor. Worse than this,--with all our reverence
for her brazen crinoline, duty compels us to reveal a fact concerning her which will shock
the feelings of those who have watched the stately rigidity of decorum with which she moves
in the presence of admiring multitudes. She is a quadruped!. Inside of her great golden boots,
which represent one pair of feet, is another smaller pair, which move freely through these
hollow casings.

Four cams or eccentric wheels impart motion to her four supports, by which she is carried forward,
always resting on two of them,--the boot of one side, and the foot of the other. Her movement,
then, is not walking; it is not skating, which it seems to resemble; it is more like that of
a person walking with two crutches besides his two legs. The machinery is simple enough: a
strong spiral spring, three or four cog-wheels and pinions, a fly to regulate the motion as
in a musical box, and the cams before mentioned. As a toy, it or she is very taking to grown
people as well as children. It is a literal fact, that the police requested one of our dealers
to remove Miss Autoperipatetikos from his window, because the crowd she drew obstructed the
sidewalk.

We see by our analysis of the process, and by the difficulty of imitating it, that walking
is a much more delicate, perilous, complicated operation than we should suppose, and well worth
studying in a practical point of view, to see what can be done to make it easier and safer.
Two Americans have applied themselves to this task: one laboring for those who possess their
lower limbs and want to use them to advantage, the other for such as have had the misfortune
to lose one or both of them.

Dr. J.C. Plumer, formerly of Portland, now of Boston, has devoted himself to the study of the
foot, and to the construction of a last upon which a boot or shoe can be moulded which shall
be adapted to its form and accommodated to its action.

Most persons know something of the cruel injustice to which the feet are subjected, and the
extraordinary distortions and diseases to which they are liable in consequence. The foot's
fingers are the slaves in the republic of the body. Their black leathern integument is only
the mask of their servile condition. They bear the burdens, while the hands, their white masters,
handle the money and wear the rings. They are crowded promiscuously in narrow prisons, while
each of the hand's fingers claims its separate apartment, leading from the antechamber, in
the dainty glove. As a natural consequence of all this, their faculties are cramped, they grow
into ignoble shapes, they become callous by long abuse, and all their natural gifts are crushed
and trodden out of them.

Dr. Plumer is the Garrison of these oppressed members of the body corporeal. He comes to break
their chains, to lift their bowed figures, to strengthen their weakness, to restore them to
the dignity of digits. To do this, he begins where every sensible man would, by contemplating
the natural foot as it appears in infancy, unspoiled as yet by social corruptions, in adults
fortunate enough to have escaped these destructive influences, in the grim skeleton aspect
divested of its outward disguises. We will give the reader two views of the latter kind, illustrating
the longitudinal and transverse arches before spoken of.

A man who walks on natural surfaces, with his feet unprotected by any artificial defences,
calls the action of these arches into full play at every step. The longitudinal arch is the
most strikingly marked of the two. In some races and in certain individuals it is much developed,
so as to give the high instep which is prized as an evidence of good blood. The Arab says that
a stream of water can flow under his foot without touching its sole. Under the conditions supposed,
of a naked foot on a natural surface, the arches of the foot will commonly maintain their integrity,
and give the noble savage or the barefooted Scotch lassie the elasticity of gait which we admire
in the children of Nature.

But as a large portion of mankind tread on artificial hard surfaces, especially pavements,
their feet are subjected to a very unnatural amount of wear and tear. How great this is the
inhabitants of cities are apt to forget. After passing some months in the country, we have
repeatedly found ourselves terribly lamed and shaken by our first walk on the pavement. A party
of city-folk who landed on a beach upon Cape Cod complained greatly to one of the natives accompanying
them of the difficulty of walking through the deep sand. "Ah," he answered, "it's nothing to
the trouble I have walking on your city-sidewalks." To save the feet from the effects of violent
percussion and uneven surfaces, they must be protected by thick soles, and thick soles require
strong upper-leather. When the foot is wedged into one of these casings, a new boot, a struggle
begins between them, which ends in a compromise. The foot becomes more or less compressed or
deformed, and the boot more or less stretched at the points where the counter-pressure takes place.

On the part of the foot, the effects of this warfare are liable to show themselves in thickening
and inflammation of the integuments, in displacement of the toes, and occasionally in the breaking
down of the transverse or longitudinal arches. On the part of the boot or shoe, there is a
gradual accommodation which in time fits it to the foot almost as if it had been moulded upon
it, so that a little before it is worn out it is invaluable, like other blessings brightening
before they take their flight.

Now Mr. Plumer's improvements proceed from two series of data. First, certain theoretical inferences
from the facts above named. Finding the arches liable to break down, he supports the transverse
arch by making the inner surface of the sole corresponding to it convex instead of concave
transversely; he makes the middle portion of the sole convex again in both directions to support
the longitudinal arch, and for the same reason extends the heel of the boot or shoe forward,
so as to support the anterior portion of the heel of the foot. Secondly, Mr. Plumer takes an
old shoe that has done good service, and studies the reliefs and hollows-which the foot has
shaped on the inner surface of its sole. Comparing the empirical results of this examination
with those based on the anatomical data above given, and finding a general coincidence in them,
he constructs his last in accordance with their joint teachings. Theoretically, Mr. Plumer
is on somewhat dangerous ground. If the arches of the foot are made to yield like elliptical
springs, why support them? But we subject them to such unnatural conditions by pressure from
above over the instep, by adding high heels to our boots and shoes, by taking away all yielding
qualities from the soil on which we tread, that very probably they may want artificial support
as much as the soles of the feet want artificial protection. If, now, we find that an old,
easy shoe has worked the inside surface of its sole into convexities which support the arches,
we are safe in imitating that at any rate. We shall have a new shoe with some, at least, of
the virtues of the old one.

This all sounds very well, and the next question is, whether it works well. We cannot but remember
the coat made for Mr. Gulliver by the Laputan tailors, which, though projected from the most
refined geometrical data and the most profound calculations, he found to be the worst fit he
ever put on his back. We must ask those who have eaten the pudding how it tastes, and those
who have worn the shoe how it wears. We have no satisfactory experience of our own, having
only within a week or two, by mere accident, stumbled into a pair of Plumerian boots, and being
thus led to look into a matter which seemed akin to the main subject of this paper. But the
author of "Views Afoot," who ought to be a sovereign authority on all that interests pedestrians,
confirms from his own experience the favorable opinions expressed by several of our most eminent
physicians, from an examination of the principles of construction. We are informed that the
Plumer last has been recently adopted for the use of the army. We add our own humble belief
that Dr. Plumer deserves well of mankind for applying sound anatomical principles to the construction
of coverings for the feet, and for contriving a last serving as a model for a boot or shoe
which is adapted to the form of the foot from the first, instead of having to be broken in
by a painful series of limping excursions, too often accompanied by impatient and even profane
utterances.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is not two years since the sight of a person who had lost one of his lower limbs was an
infrequent occurrence. Now, alas! there are few of us who have not a cripple among our friends,
if not in our own families. A mechanical art which provided for an occasional and exceptional
want has become a great and active branch of industry. War unmakes legs, and human skill must
supply their places as it best may.

Our common idea of a wooden leg is realized in the "peg" of the Greenwich pensioner. This humble
contrivance has done excellent service in its time, and may serve a good purpose still in some
cases. A plain working-man, who has outlived his courting-days and need not sacrifice much
to personal appearance, may find an honest, old-fashioned wooden leg, cheap, lasting, requiring
no repairs, the best thing for his purpose. In higher social positions, and at an age when
appearances are realities, in the condition of the Marquis of Anglesea, for instance, it becomes
important to provide the cripple with a limb which shall be presentable in polite society,
where misfortunes of a certain obtrusiveness may be pitied, but are never tolerated under the
chandeliers.

The leg invented by Mr. Potts, and bearing the name of the "Anglesea leg," was long famous,
and doubtless merited the reputation it acquired as superior to its predecessors. But legs
cannot remain stationary while the march of improvement goes on around them, and they, too,
have moved onward with the stride of progress.

A boy of ten years old, living in a New-Hampshire village, had one of his legs crushed so as
to require amputation. The little fellow was furnished with a "Peg" and stumped round upon
it for ten years. We can imagine what he suffered as he grew into adolescence under the cross
of this unsightly appendage. He was of comely aspect, tall, well-shaped, with well-marked,
regular features. But just at the period when personal graces are most valued, when a good
presence is a blank check on the Bank of Fortune, with Nature's signature at the bottom, he
found himself made hideous by this fearful-looking counterfeit of a limb. It announced him
at the threshold he reached with beating heart by a thump more energetic than the palpitation
in his breast. It identified him as far as the eye of jealousy could see his moving figure.
The "peg" became intolerable, and he unstrapped it and threw himself on the tender mercies
of the crutch.

But the crutch is at best an instrument of torture. It presses upon a great bundle of nerves;
it distorts the figure; it stamps a character of its own upon the whole organism; it is even
accused of distempering the mind itself.

This young man, whose name was "B. FRANK. PALMER," (the abbreviations probably implying the
name of a distinguished Boston philosopher of the last century, whose visit to Philadelphia
is still remembered in that city,) set himself at work to contrive a limb which should take
the place of the one he had lost, fulfilling its functions and counterfeiting its aspect so
far as possible. The result was the "Palmer leg," one of the most unquestionable triumphs of
American ingenuity. Its victorious march has been unimpeded by any serious obstacle since it
first stepped into public notice. The inventor was introduced by the late Dr. John C. Warren,
in 1846, to the Massachusetts General Hospital, which institution he has for many years supplied
with his artificial limbs. He received medals from the American Institute, the Massachusetts
Charitable Association, and the Great Exhibition in New York, and obtained an honorary mention
from the Royal Commissioners of the World's Exhibition in London,--being the only maker of
legs so distinguished. These are only a few of fifty honorary awards he has received at various
times. The famous surgeons of London, the Société de Chirurgie of Paris, and the most celebrated
practitioners of the United States have given him their hearty recommendations. So lately as
last August, that shrewd and skilful surgeon, Dr. Henry J. Bigelow, who is as cautious in handling
his epithets as he is bold in using the implements of his art, strongly advised Surgeon-General
Hammond to adopt the Palmer leg, which, after a dozen years' experience, he had found none
to equal. We see it announced that the Board of Surgeons appointed by the Surgeon-General to
select the best arm and leg to be procured by the Government for its crippled soldiers chose
that of Mr. Palmer, and that Dr. Hammond approved their selection.

We have thought it proper to show that Mr. Palmer's invention did not stand in need of our
commendation. Its merits, as we have seen, are conceded by the tribunals best fitted to judge,
and we are therefore justified in selecting it as an illustration of American mechanical skill.

We give three views of the Palmer leg: an inside view when extended, a second when flexed,
a third as it appears externally.

The Committee on Science and the Arts of the Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania thus stated
the peculiarities of Mr. Palmer's invention:--

"First, An ingenious arrangement of springs and cords in the inside of the limb, by which,
when the wearer is in the erect position, the limb is extended, and the foot flexed so as to
present a natural appearance.

"Second. By a second arrangement of cords and springs in the inside of the limb, the foot and
toes are gradually and easily extended, when the heel is placed in contact with the ground.
In consequence of this arrangement, the limping gait, and the unpleasant noise made by the
sudden stroke of the ball of the foot upon the ground in walking, which are so obvious in the
ordinary leg, are avoided.

"Third. By a peculiar arrangement of the knee-joint, it is rendered little liable to wear,
and all lateral or rotary motion is avoided. It is hardly necessary to remark that any such
motion is undesirable in an artificial leg, as it renders its support unstable."

Before reporting some of the facts which we have seen, or learned by personal inquiry, we must
be allowed, for the sake of convenience, to exercise the privilege granted to all philosophical
students, of enlarging the nomenclature applicable to the subject of which we are treating.

Man, according to the Sphinx, is successively a quadruped, a biped, and a triped. But circumstances
may change his natural conditions. If he loses a leg, he becomes a uniped. If he loses both
his legs, he becomes a nulliped. If art replaces the loss of one limb with a factitious substitute,
he becomes a ligniped, or, if we wish to be very precise, a uni-ligniped; two wooden legs entitle
him to be called a biligniped. Our terminology being accepted, we are ready to proceed.

To make ourselves more familiar with the working of the invention we are considering, we have
visited Mr. Palmer's establishments in Philadelphia and Boston. The distinguished "Surgeon-Artist"
is a man of fine person, as we have said. But if he has any personal vanity, it does not betray
itself with regard to that portion of his organism which Nature furnished him. There is some
reason to think that Mr. Palmer is a little ashamed of the lower limb which he brought into
the world with him. At least, if he follows the common rule and puts that which he considers
his best foot foremost, he evidently awards the preference to that which was born of his brain
over the one which he owes to his mother. He walks as well as many do who have their natural
limbs, though not so well as some of his own patients. He puts his vegetable leg through many
of the movements which would seem to demand the contractile animal fibre. He goes up and down
stairs with very tolerable ease and despatch. Only when he comes to stand upon the human limb,
we begin, to find that it is not in all respects equal to the divine one. For a certain number
of seconds he can poise himself upon it; but Mr. Palmer, if he indulges in verse, would hardly
fill the Horatian complement of lines in that attitude. In his anteroom were unipeds in different
stages of their second learning to walk as lignipeds. At first they move with a good deal of
awkwardness, but gradually the wooden limb seems to become, as it were, penetrated by the nerves,
and the intelligence to run downwards until it reaches the last joint of the member.

Mr. Palmer, as we have incidentally mentioned, has a branch establishment in Boston, to which
also we have paid a visit, in order to learn some of the details of the manufacture to which
we had not attended in our pleasant interview with the inventor. The antechamber here, too,
was the nursery of immature lignipeds, ready to exhibit their growing accomplishments to the
inquiring stranger. It almost seems as if the artificial leg were the scholar, rather than
the person who wears it. The man does well enough, but the leg is stupid until practice has
taught it just what is expected from its various parts.

The polite Boston partner, who, if he were in want of a customer, would almost persuade a man
with two good legs to provide himself with a third, carried us to the back part of the building,
where legs are organized.

The willow, which furnishes the charcoal for the gunpowder that blows off limbs, is the wood
chosen to supply the loss it has helped to occasion. It is light, strong, does not warp or
"check" much as many other woods, and is, as the workmen say, healthy, that is, not irritating
to the parts with which it is in contact. Whether the salicine it may contain enters the pores
and invigorates the system may be a question for those who remember the drugs in the Sultan's
bat-handle and the remarkable cure they wrought. This wood is kept in a dry-house with as much
care as that intended for the manufacture of pianos. It is thoroughly steamed also, before using.

The wood comes in rudely shaped blocks, as lasts are sent to the factory, seeming to have been
coarsely hewed out of the log. The shaping, as we found to our surprise, is all done by hand.
We had expected to see great lathes, worked by steam-power, taking in a rough stick and turning
out a finished limb. But it is shaped very much as a sculptor finishes his marble, with an
eye to artistic effect,--not so much in the view of the stranger, who does not look upon its
naked loveliness, as in that of the wearer, who is seduced by its harmonious outlines into
its purchase, and solaced with the consciousness that he carries so much beauty and symmetry
about with him. The hollowing-out of the interior is done by wicked-looking blades and scoops
at the end of long stems, suggesting the thought of dentists' instruments as they might have
been in the days of the giants. The joints are most carefully made, more particularly at the
knee, where a strong bolt of steel passes through the solid wood. Windows, oblong openings,
are left in the sides of the limb, to insure a good supply of air to the extremity of the mutilated
limb. Many persons are not aware that all parts of the surface breathe just as the lungs breathe,
exhaling carbonic acid as well as water, and taking in more or less oxygen.

One of the workmen, a pleasant-looking young fellow, was himself, we were told, a ligniped.
We begged him to give us a specimen of his walking. He arose and walked rather slowly across
the room and back. "Once more," we said, not feeling quite sure which was Nature's leg and
which Mr. Palmer's. So he walked up and down the room again, until we had satisfied ourselves
which was the leg of willow and which that of flesh and bone. It is not, perhaps, to the credit
of our eyes or observing powers, but it is a fact, that we deliberately selected the wrong
leg. No victim of the thimble-rigger's trickery was ever more completely taken in than we were
by the contrivance of the ingenious Surgeon-Artist.

Our freely expressed admiration led to the telling of wonderful stories about the doings of
persons with artificial legs. One individual was mentioned who skated particularly well; another
who danced with zeal and perseverance; and a third who must needs swim in his leg, which brought
on a dropsical affection of the limb,--to which kind of complaint the willow has, of course,
a constitutional tendency,--and for which it had to come to the infirmary where the diseases
that wood is heir to are treated.

But the most wonderful monuments of the great restorer's skill are the patients who have lost
both legs,--nullipeds, as presented to Mr. Palmer, bilignipeds, as they walk forth again before
the admiring world, balanced upon their two new-born members. We have before us delineations
of six of these hybrids between the animal and vegetable world. One of them was employed at
a railway-station near this (Atlantic) city, where he was often seen by a member of our own
household, whose testimony we are in the habit of considering superior in veracity to the naked
truth as commonly delivered. He walked about, we are assured, a little slowly and stiffly,
but in a way that hardly attracted attention.

The inventor of the leg has not been contented to stop there. He has worked for years upon
the construction of an artificial arm, and has at length succeeded in arranging a mechanism,
which, if it cannot serve a pianist or violinist, is yet equal to holding the reins in driving,
receiving fees for professional services, and similar easy labors. Where Mr. Palmer means to
stop in supplying bodily losses it would be premature to say. We suppose the accidents happening
occasionally from the use of the guillotine are beyond his skill, and spare our readers the
lively remark suggested by the contrary hypothesis.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is one of the signs of our advancing American civilization, that the arts which preserve
and restore the personal advantages necessary or favorable to cultivated social life should
have reached such perfection among us. American dentists have achieved a reputation which has
sent them into the palaces of Europe to open the mouths of sovereigns and princes as freely
as the jockeys look into those of horses and colts. Bad teeth, too common among us, help to
breed good dentists, no doubt; but besides this there is an absolute demand for a certain comeliness
of person throughout all the decent classes of our society. It is the same standard of propriety
in appearances which lays us open to the reproach of caring too much for dress. If the national
ear for music is not so acute as that of some other peoples, the national eye for the harmonies
of form and color is better than we often find in older communities. We have a right to claim
that our sculptors and painters prove so much as this for us. American taste was offended,
outraged, by the odious "peg" which the Old-World soldier or beggar was proud to show. We owe
the well-shaped, intelligent, docile limb, the half-reasoning willow of Mr. Palmer, to the
same sense of beauty and fitness which moulded the soft outlines of the Indian Girl and the
White Captive in the studio of his namesake at Albany.

As we wean ourselves from the Old World, and become more and more nationalized in our great
struggle for existence as a free people, we shall carry this aptness for the production of
beautiful forms more and more into common life, which demands first what is necessary and then
what is pleasing. It is but a step from the painter's canvas to the weaver's loom, and the
pictures which are leaving the easel to-day will show themselves in the patterns that sweep
the untidy sidewalks to-morrow. The same plastic power which is showing itself in the triumphs
of American sculpture will reach the forms of our household-utensils. The beans of Beverly
shall yet be baked in vases that Etruria might have envied, and the clay pipe of the Americanized
Milesian shall be a thing of beauty as well as a joy forever. We are already pushing the plastic
arts farther than many persons have suspected. There is a small town not far from us where
a million dollars' worth of gold is annually beaten into ornaments for the breasts, the fingers,
the ears, the necks of women. Many a lady supposes she is buying Parisian adornments, when
Attleborough could say to her proudly, like Cornelia, "These are my jewels." The workmen of
this little town not only meet the tastes of the less fastidious classes, to whom all that
glisters is gold, but they shape the purest metal into artistic and effective patterns. When
the Koh-i-noor--the Mountain of Light--was to be fashioned, it was found to be almost as formidable
a task as that of Xerxes, when he undertook to hew Mount Athos to the shape of man. The great
crystal was sent to Holland, as the only place where it could be properly cut. We have lately
seen a brilliant which, if not a mountain of light, was yet a very respectable mound of radiance,
valued at some ten or twelve thousand dollars, cut in this virgin settlement, and exposed in
one of our shop-windows to tempt our frugal villagers.

Monsieur Trousseau, Professor in the Medical School of Paris, delivered a discursive lecture
not long ago, in which he soared from the region of drugs, his well-known special province,
into the thin atmosphere of aesthetics. It is the influence that surrounds his fortunate fellow-citizens,
he declares, which alone preserves their intellectual supremacy. If a Parisian milliner, he
says, remove to New York, she will so degenerate in the course of a couple of years that the
squaw of a Choctaw chief would be ashamed to wear one of her bonnets.

Listen, O Parisian cockney, pecking among the brood most plethoric with conceit, of all the
coop-fed citizens who tread the pavements of earth's many-chimneyed towns! America has made
implements of husbandry which out-mow and out-reap the world. She has contrived man-slaying
engines which kill people faster than any others. She has modelled the wave-slicing clipper
which outsails all your argosies and armadas. She has revolutionized naval warfare once by
the steamboat. She has revolutionized it a second time by planting towers of iron on the elephantine
backs of the waves. She has invented the sewing-machine to save the dainty fingers of your
virtuous grisettes from uncongenial toil, so that Fifine and Frétillon may have more leisure
for self-development. She has taught you a whole new system of labor in her machinery for making
watches and rifles. She has bestowed upon you and all the world an anodyne which enables you
to cut arms and legs off without hurting the patient; and when his leg is off, she has given
you a true artist's limb for your cripple to walk upon, instead of the peg on which he has
stumped from the days of Guy de Chauliac to those of M. Nelaton. She has been contriving well-shaped
boots and shoes for the very people who, if they were your countrymen, would be clumping about
in wooden sabots. In works of scientific industry, hardly to be looked for among so new a people
she has distanced your best artificers. The microscopes made at Canastota, in the backwoods
of New York, look in vain for their rivals in Paris, and must challenge the best workmanship
of London before they can be approached in excellence. The great eye that stares into the celestial
spaces from its workshop in Cambridge, dives deeper through their clouds of silvery dust than
any instrument mounted in your observatory in face of the Luxembourg. Our artisans produce
no Gobelin tapestries or Sèvres porcelain as yet; but when your mobs have looted the Tuileries,
our shopkeepers have bought up enough specimens to serve them as patterns by-and-by.

All this is something for a nation which has hardly pulled up the stumps out of its city market-places.
It is sad to reflect that milliners, like Burgundy, are spoiled by transportation to the headquarters
of American fashion. But as the best bonnet of the Empress's own artist would be exploded with
yells a couple of seasons after the time when it was the rage, the Icarian professor's flight
into the regions of rhetoric has not led him to any very logical resting-place from which he
can look down on the aesthetic possibilities of New York or other Western cities emerging from
the semi-barbarous state.

We are not proud, of course, of any of the mechanical triumphs we have won; they are well enough,
and show--to borrow the words of a distinguished American, whom, during his too brief career,
we held unrivalled by any experimenter in the Old World for the depth as well as the daring
of his investigations--that some things can be done as well as others.

Our specialty is of somewhat larger scope. We profess to make men and women out of human beings
better than any of the joint-stock companies called dynasties have done or can do it. We profess
to make citizens out of men,--not citoyens, but persons educated to question all privileges
asserted by others, and claim all rights belonging to themselves,--the only way in which the
infinitely most important party to the compact between the governed and governing can avoid
being cheated out of the best rights inherent in human nature, as an experience the world has
seen almost enough of has proved. We are in trouble just now, on account of a neglected hereditary
melanosis, as Monsieur Trousseau might call it. When we recover from the social and political
convulsion it has produced, and eliminate the materies morbi,--and both these events are only
matters of time,--perhaps we shall have leisure to breed our own milliners. If not, there will
probably be refugees enough from the Old World, who have learned the fashions in courts, and
will be glad to turn their knowledge to a profitable use for the benefit of their republican
patronesses in New York and Boston.

We have run away from our subject farther than we intended at starting; but an essay on legs
could hardly avoid the rambling tendency which naturally belongs to these organs.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAUL BLECKER.

PART I.

  "Which serves life's purpose best,
  To enjoy or to renounce?"

A thorough American, who comprehends what America has to do, and means to help on with it,
ought to choose to be born in New England, for the vitalized brain, finely-chorded nerves,
steely self-control,--then to go West, for more live, muscular passion, succulent manhood,
naked-handed grip of his work. But when he wants to die, by all means let him hunt out a town
in the valley of Pennsylvania or Virginia: Nature and man there are so ineffably self-contained,
content with that which is, shut in from the outer surge, putting forth their little peculiarities,
as tranquil and glad to be alive as if they were pulseless sea-anemones, and after a while
going back to the Being whence they came, just as tranquil and glad to be dead.

Paul Blecker had some such fancy as this, that last evening before the regiment of which he
was surgeon started for Harper's Ferry, while he and the Captain were coming from camp by the
hill-road into the village (or burgh: there are no Villages in Pennsylvania). Nothing was lost
on Blecker; his wide, nervous eyes took all in: the age and complacent quiet of this nook of
the world, the full-blooded Nature asleep in the yellow June sunset; why! she had been asleep
there since the beginning, he knew. The very Indians in these hills must have been a fishing,
drowsy crew; their names and graves yet dreamily haunted the farms and creek-shores. The Covenanters
who came after them never had roused themselves enough to shake them off. Covenanters: the
Doctor began joking to himself, as he walked along, humming some tune, about how the spirit
of every sect came out, always alike, in the temperament, the very cut of the face, or whim
of accent. These descendants of the Covenanters, now,--Presbyterian elders and their wives,--going
down to camp to bid their boys good-bye, devoted them to death with just as stern integrity,
as partial a view of the right, as their ancestors did theirs at Naseby or Drumclog: their
religion loved its friends and hated its enemies just as bitterly as when it scowled at Monmouth;
the "boys," no doubt, would call themselves Roundheads, as they had done in the three months'
service. Paul Blecker, who had seen a good many sides of the world, laughed to himself: the
very Captain here, good, anxious, innocent as a baby, as he was, looked at the world exactly
through Balfour of Burley's dead eyes, was going to cure the disease of it by the old pill
of intolerance and bigotry. No wonder Paul laughed.

The sobered Quaker evening was making ready for night: the yellow warmth overhead thinning
into tintless space; the low hills drawing farther off in the melancholy light; the sky sinking
nearer; clouds, unsteady all day, softened at last into a thoughtful purple, and couching themselves
slowly in the hollows of the horizon; the sweep of cornfields and woods and distant farms growing
dim,--daguerreotype-like; the tinkle of the sheep-bells on the meadows, the shouts of the boys
in camp yonder, the bass drone of the frogs in the swamp dulling down into the remoteness of
sleep. The Doctor slackened his sharp, jerking stride, and fell into the monotonous gait of
his companion, glancing up to him. McKinstry, he thought, was going out to battle to-morrow
with just as cool phlegm and childlike content as he would set out to buy his merino ewes;
but he would receive no pay,--meant to transfer it to his men. And he would be in the thickest
of the fight,--you might bet on that. Umph! his quick eyes darting over the big, leisurely
frame, the neat yellow hair, and the blue eyes mildly peering through spectacles. Then, having
satisfactorily anatomized McKinstry, he turned to the evening again with open senses, the sensitive
pulsing of his wide nostrils telling that even the milky scent of the full-uddered cows gave
him keen enjoyment. The cows were going home from pasture, up shady barn-lanes, into the grayer
shadows about the houses on either side of the road, in whose windows lights were beginning
to glimmer. Solid old homesteads they were, stone or brick, never wood. Out in these Western
settlements, a hundred years ago, they built durable homes, curiously enough, more than in
the Northern States; planted oaks about them, that bore the strength of the earth up to heaven
in sturdy arms, shaming the graceful, uncertain elm of shallower soils. Just such old farm-houses
as those, Blecker thought, would turn out such old-time moulded men as McKinstry: houses whose
orchards still held on to the Waldower and Smoke-house apples; their gardens gay with hollyhocks
and crimson prince's-feather; on the book-shelves the "Spectator" and "Gentleman's Magazine."
The women of them kept up the old-fashioned knitting-parties, and a donation-visit to the pastor
once a year; and the men were all gone to the war, to keep the Union as it was in their fathers'
time, and would doubtless vote the conservative ticket next election because their fathers
did, which would make the war a horrible farce. The town, Blecker thought, had rooted itself
in between the hills with as solid a persistence as the prejudices of its builders. Obstinately
steep streets, shaded by gnarled locust-trees; houses drawn back from the sidewalks, in surly
dread of all new-comers; the very smoke, vaporing through the sky, had defiance in it of the
outer barbarous world and its vulgar newness. Yet the town had an honest country heart in it,
if it was a bit gray and crusty with age. Blecker, knowing it as he did, did not wonder the
boys who left it named a village for it out in Kansas, trying to fancy themselves at home,--or
that one old beggar in it asked to be buried in the middle of the street, "So's I kin hear
the stages a-comin' in, an' know if the old place is a-gittin' on."

There seemed to be a migration from it to-night: they met, every minute, buggies, old-fashioned
carriages, horsemen.

"Going out to camp," McKinstry said; "the boys all have some one to bid them good-bye."

What a lonely, reserved voice the man had! Blecker had the curiosity of all sensitive men to
know the soul-history of people; he glanced again keenly in McKinstry's face. Pshaw! one might
as well ask their story from the deaf and dumb. But that they were dumb,--there was hint of
a tragedy in that!

Everybody stopped to speak to the Doctor. He had been but a few months in the place; but the
old church-goers had found him out as a passionate, free-and-easy, honorable fellow, full of
joke and anecdote,--shrewd, too. They "fellowshipped" with him heartily, and were glad when
he got the post of surgeon with their sons. If there were anything more astringent below this,
any more real self in the man, held back, belonging to a world outside of theirs, they did
not see it. They knew him better, they thought, than they did Daniel McKinstry, who had grown
up among them, just as mild and silent when he was a tow-haired boy as now, a man of forty-five.
He touched his hat to them now, and went on, while Blecker leaned on the carriage-doors, his
brown face aglow with fun, his uneasy fingers drumming boyishly on the panel. Not knowing that
through the changeful face, and fierce, pitiful eyes of the boy, the man Paul Blecker looked
coolly out, testing, labelling them. The boy in him, that they saw, Nature had made; but years
of a hand-to-hand fight with starvation came after, crime, and society, whose work is later
than Nature's, and sometimes better done.

"Fine girl!" said the Doctor, touching his hat to Miss Mallard, as she cantered past. "Got
a head of her own, too. Made a deused good speech, when she presented the flag to-day."

Miss Mallard overheard him, as he intended she should, and blushed a visible acknowledgment.
All of her character was visible, well-developed as her body: her timidity showed itself in
the unceasing dropping of her eyelid; her arch simplicity in the pouting lips; a coy reserve--well,
that everywhere, to the very rosette on her retreating slipper; and her patriotism was quite
palpable in the color of her Balmoral. She rode Squire Mallard's gray.

"And very well they turn out," sneered Blecker.

"She is a woman," said the Captain, blushing,--differently from the lady, however.

"And if she is?" turning suddenly. "She has the nature of a Bowery rough. Pah, McKinstry! Sexes
stand alike with me. If a woman's flesh is weaker-grained a bit, what of that? Whoever would
earn esteem must work for it."

The Captain said nothing, stammered a little, then, hoisting his foot on a stump, tied his
shoe nervously.

Blecker smiled, a queer, sorrowful smile, as if, oddly enough, he felt sorry for himself.

"I'd like to think of women as you do, Mac," he said. "You never knew many?"

"Only two, until now,--my mother and little Sarah. They're gone now."

Sarah? The Doctor was silent a moment, thinking. He had heard of a sister of McKinstry's, sick
for years with some terrible disease, whom he had nursed until the end. She was Sarah, most
likely. Well, that was what his life had been given up for, was it? There was a twitching about
McKinstry's wide mouth: Paul looked away from him a moment, and then, glancing furtively back,
began again.

"No, I never knew my mother or sister, Mac. The great discovery of this age is woman, old fellow!
I've been, knocked about too much not to have lost all delusions about them. It did well enough
for the crusading times to hold them as angels in theory, and in practice as idiots; but in
these rough-and-tumble days we'd better give 'em their places as flesh and blood, with exactly
such wants and passions as men."

The Captain never argued.

"I don't know," he said, dryly.

After that he jogged on in silence, glancing askance at the masculine, self-assertant figure
of his companion,--at the face, acrid, unyielding, beneath its surface-heat: ruminating mildly
to himself on what a good thing it was for him never to have known any but old-fashioned women.
This Blecker, now, had been made by intercourse with such women as those he talked of: he came
from the North. The Captain looked at him with a vague, moony compassion: the usual Western
vision of a Yankee female in his head,--Bloomer-clad, hatchet-faced, capable of anything, from
courting a husband to commanding a ship. (It is all your fault, genuine women of New England!
Why don't you come among us, and know your country, and let your country know you? Better learn
the meaning of Chicago than of Venice, for your own sakes, believe me.)

They were near the town now, the road crossing a railroad-track, where the hill, chopped apart
for the grade, left bare the black stratum of coal, tinged here and there with a bloody brown
and whitish shale.

"Hillo! this means iron," said the Doctor, climbing up the bank, cat-like, to break off a bit;
"and here an odd formation, Mac. Take it in to old Gurney."

The Captain cleaned his spectacles with piece of chamois-leather, put them on, folded the leather
and replaced it in its especial place in his pocket, before he took the bit of rock.

"All that finical ceremony he would go through in the face of the enemy," thought Blecker,
jumping down on the track.

"Give it to old Gurney, Mac. It will insure you a welcome."

"It is curious, Doctor Blecker. But you"--

"I never care to gratify anybody. Besides, the old gentleman and I inter-despised. Our instincts
cried out, ''Ware dog!' the first day You are a friend of his, eh, Mac?"

The Captain's face grew red, like a bashful woman's. He thought Blecker had divined his secret,
would haul it out roughly in another moment. If this slang-talking Yankee should take little
Lizzy's name into his mouth! But the Doctor was silent, even looked away until the heat on
the poor old bachelor's face had died out. He knew McKinstry's thought of that little girl
well enough, but he held the child-hearted man's secret tenderly and charily in his hand. Paul
Blecker did talk slang and assert himself; but every impulse in him was clean, delicate, liberal.
So, Paul remaining silent, the Captain took heart of grace, going down the street, and ventured
back to the Gurney question.

"I thought I would accompany you there, Doctor Blecker. They might only think it seemly in
me to bid farewell. I"--

Blecker nodded. The man had not been able to hide an harassed frown that day under his usual
vigor of speech and look. It became more palpable after this; his voice, when he did speak,
was fretful, irritable,--his lips compressed; he stopped at a village-well to drink, as though
his mouth were parched.

"How old is that house,--the Gurneys?" he asked, affecting carelessness, to baffle the curious
inspection of McKinstry.

"The Fort? We call it the Fort because it was used for one in Indian times," McKinstry began,
chafing his lean whiskers delightedly.

Old houses were his hobby, especially this which they approached,--a narrow, long building
of unhewn stone, facing on the street, the lintels and doors worm-eaten, and green with moss.

"Built by Bradford, the new part,--Bradford, of the Whiskey Insurrection, you know? Carvings
on the walls brought over the mountains, when to bring them by panels was a two-months' journey.
There's queer stories hang about these old Pennsylvania homesteads."

"Bradford? The Gurneys are a new family here, then?"

"Came here but a few years back, from a country farther up the mountains. They're different
from us."

"How, different?" with a keen, surprised glance. "I see they are a newer people than the others;
but I thought the village accepted them with shut eyes."

The Captain stammered again.

"Old Father Gurney, as we call him, taught school when they first came, but he gave that up.
This section is a good geological field, and he wished to devote himself to that," he went
on, evading the question. "They live off of those acres at the back of the house since that.
You see? Corn, potatoes, buckwheat,--good yield."

"Who oversees the planting?" sharply.

McKinstry wondered vaguely at the little Doctor's curious interest in the Gurneys, but went
on with his torpid, slow answers.

"That eldest girl, I believe, Grey. Cow there, you see, and ducks. He's popular, old Father
Gurney. People have a liking for his queer ways, help him collect specimens for his cabinet;
the boys bring him birds to stuff, and snakes. If it hadn't been for the troubles breaking
out, he was on the eve of a most im-por-tant discovery,--the crater of an exhausted volcano
in Virginia." McKinstry lowered his voice cautiously. "Fact, Sir. In Mercer County. But the
guerrillas interfered with his researches."

"I think it probable. So he stuffs birds, does he?" Blecker's lips closing tighter.

"And keeps the snakes in alcohol. There are shelves in Miss Lizzy's room quite full of them.
That lower room it was, but Joseph has taken it for a study. She has the upper one for her
flowers and her father's birds."

"And Grey, and the twins, and the four boys bedaubed with molasses, and the dog, and the cooking?"

"Stowed away somewhere," the Captain mildly responded.

Dr. Blecker was testy.

"You know Joseph, her brother? I mean our candidate for Congress next term?"

"Yes. Democratic. J. Schuyler Gurney,--give him his name, Mac. Republican last winter. Joseph
trims to wind and tide well. I heard him crow like a barn-yard fowl on the Capitol-steps at
Washington when Lincoln called for the seventy-five thousand: now, he hashes up Breckinridge's
conservative speech for your hickory-backed farmers. Does he support the family, Mac?"

"His election-expenses are heavy."

"Brandy-slings. I know his proclivities."

McKinstry colored. Dr. Blecker was coarse, an ill-bred man, he suspected,--noting, too, the
angry repression in his eyes, as he stood leaning on the gate, looking in at the Fort, for
they had reached it by this time. The Captain looked in, too, through the dusky clumps of altheas
and plum-trees, at the old stone house, dyed tawny-gray in the evening light, and talked on,
the words falling unconscious and simple as a stream of milk. The old plodder was no longer
dumb. Blecker had hit on the one valve of the shut-up nature, the obstinate point of self-reliant
volition in a life that had been one long drift of circumstance. This old stone house, shaggy
with vines, its bloody script of Indian warfare hushed down and covered with modern fruit-trees
and sunflowers,--this fort, and the Gurneys within it, stood out in the bare swamped stretch
of the man's years, their solitary bit of enchantment. They were bare years,--the forty he
had known: Fate had drained them tolerably dry before she flung them to him to accomplish duty
in;--the duty was done now. McKinstry, a mild, common-faced man, had gone through it for nearly
half a century, pleasantly,--never called it heroism. It was done. He had time now to stretch
his nerves of body and soul with a great sigh of relief,--to see that Duty was, after all,
a lean, meagre-faced angel, that Christ sends first, but never meant should be nearest and
best. Faith, love, and so, happiness, these were words of more pregnant meaning in the gospel
the Helper left us. So McKinstry stood straight up, for the first time in his life, and looked
about him. A man, with an adult's blood, muscles, needs; an idle soul which his cramped creed
did not fill, hungry domestic instincts, narrow and patient habit;--he claimed work and happiness,
his right. Of course it came, and tangibly. Into every life God sends an actual messenger to
widen and lift it above itself: puerile or selfish the messenger often is, but so straight
from Him that the divine radiance clings about it, and all that it touches. We call that love,
you remember. A secular affair, according to McKinstry's education, as much as marketing. So
when he found that the tawny old house and the quiet little girl in there with the curious
voice, which people came for miles to hear, were gaining an undue weight in his life, held,
to be plain, all the fairy-land of which his childhood had been cheated, all fierce beauty,
aspiration, passionate strength to insult Fate, which his life had never known, he kept the
knowledge to himself. It was boyish weakness. He choked it out of thought on Sundays as sacrilege:
how could he talk of the Gurney house and Lizzy to that almighty, infinite Vagueness he worshipped?
Stalking to and fro, in the outskirts of the churchyard, he used to watch the flutter of the
little girl's white dress, as she passed by to "meeting." He could not help it that his great
limbs trembled, if the dress touched them, or that he had a mad longing to catch the tired-looking
child up to his brawny breast and hold her there forever. But he felt guilty and ashamed that
it was so; not knowing that Christ, seeing the pure thrill in his heart, smiled just as he
did long ago when Mary brought the beloved disciple to him.

He never had told little Lizzy that he loved her,--hardly told himself. Why, he was forty-five,--and
a year or two ago she was sledding down the street with her brothers, a mere yellow-haired
baby. He remembered the first time he had noticed her,--one Christmas eve; his mother and Sarah
were alive then. There was an Italian woman came to the village with a broken hand-organ, a
filthy, starving wretch, and Gurney's little girl went with her from house to house in the
snow, singing Christmas carols, and handing the tambourine. Everybody said, "Why, you little
tot!" and gave her handfuls of silver. Such a wonderful voice she had even then, and looked
so chubby and pretty in her little blue cloak and hood; and going about with the woman was
such a pure-hearted thing to do. She danced once or twice that day, striking the tambourine,
he remembered; the sound of it seemed to put her in a sort of ecstasy, laughing till her eyes
were full of tears, and her tangled hair fell all about her red cheeks. She could not help
but do it, he believed, for at other times she was shy, terrified, if one spoke to her; but
he wished he had not seen her dance then, though she was only a child: dancing, he thought,
was as foul and effective a snare as ever came from hell. After that day she used often to
come to the farm to see his mother and Sarah. They tried to teach her to sew, but she was a
lazy little thing, he remembered, with an indulgent smile. And he was "Uncle Dan." So now she
was grown up, quite a woman: in those years, when she had been with her kinsfolk in New York,
she had been taught to sing. Well, well! McKinstry reckoned music as about as useful as the
crackling of thorns under a pot; so he never cared to know, what was the fact, that this youngest
daughter of Gurney's had one of the purest contralto voices in the States. She came home, grown,
but just as shy; only tired, needing care: no one could look in Lizzy Gurney's face without
wishing to comfort and help the child. The Gurneys were so wretchedly poor, that might be the
cause of her look. She was a woman now. Well, and then? Why, nothing then. He was Uncle Dan
still, of whom she was less afraid than of any other living creature; that was all. Thinking,
as he stood with Paul Blecker, leaning over the gate, of how she had brought him a badly-made
havelock that morning. "You're always so kind to me," she said. "So I am kind to her," he thought,
his quiet blue eyes growing duller behind their spectacles; "so I will be."

The Doctor opened the gate, and went in, turning into the shrubbery, and seating himself under
a sycamore.

"Don't wait for me, McKinstry," he said. "I'll sit here and smoke a bit. Here comes the aforesaid
Joseph."

He did not light his cigar, however, when the other left him; took off his hat to let the wind
blow through his hair, the petulant heat dying out of his face, giving place to a rigid settling,
at last, of the fickle features.

A flabby, red-faced man in fine broadcloth and jaunty beaver came down the path, fumbling his
seals, and met the Captain with a puffing snort of salutation. To Blecker, whose fancy was
made sultry to-night by some passion we know nothing of, he looked like a bloated spider coming
out of the cell where his victims were. "Gorging himself, while they and the country suffer
the loss," he muttered. But Paul was a hot-brained young man. We should only have seen a vulgar,
commonplace trickster in politics, such as the people make pets of. "Such men as Schuyler Gurney
get the fattest offices. God send us a monarchy soon!" he hissed under his breath, as the gate
closed after the politician. By which you will perceive that Dr. Blecker, like most men fighting
their way up, was too near-sighted for any abstract theories. Liberty, he thought, was a very
poetic, Millennium-like idea for stump-speeches and college-cubs, but he grappled with the
time the States were too chaotic, untaught a mass for self-government; he cursed secession
as anarchy, and the government at Washington for those equally anarchical, drunken whims of
tyranny; he would like to see an iron heel put on the whole concern, for wholesome discipline.
The Doctor was born in one of the Border States; men there, it is said, have a sort of hand-to-mouth
politics; their daily bread of rights is all they care for; so Paul seldom looked into to-morrow
for anything. In other ways, too, his birth had curdled his blood into a sensuous languor.
To-night, after McKinstry had entered the house, and he was left alone, the quaint old garden
quiet, the air about him clean, pure, unperfumed, the stars distant and lonely, his limbs bedded
in the clinging moss, he was rested for the moment, happy like a child, with no subtile-sensed
questionings why. The sounds of the village could not penetrate there; the content, the listless
hush of the night was with him; the delicious shimmer of the trees in the starlight, the low
call of the pigeon to its mate, even the fall of the catalpa-blossoms upon his hand, thrilled
him with unreasoning pleasure: a dull consciousness that the earth was alive and well, and
he was glad to live with the rest.

Something in Blecker's nature came into close rapport with the higher animal life. If he had
been born with money, and lived here in these stagnating hills, or down yonder on some lazy
cotton-plantation, he would have settled down before this into a genial, child-loving, arbitrary
husband and master, fond of pictures and horses, his house in decent taste, his land pleasure-giving,
his wines good. By this time he would have been Judge Blecker, with a portly voice, flushed
face, and thick eyelids. But he had scuffled and edged his way in the thin air of Connecticut
as errand-boy, daguerreotypist, teacher, doctor;--so he came into the Gurney garden that night,
shrewd, defiant, priding himself on detecting shams. His waistcoat and trousers were of coarser
stuff than suited his temperament; a taint of vulgarity in his talk, his whiskers untrimmed,
the meaning of his face compacted, sharpened. It was many a year since a tear had come into
his black eyes; yet tears belonged there, as much as to a woman's.

Only for a few moments, therefore, he was contented to sit quiet in the soft gloaming: then
he puffed his cigar impatiently, watching the house. Waiting for some one: with no fancies
about the old fort, like McKinstry. An over-full house, with an unordered, slipshod life, hungry,
clinging desperately in its poverty to an old prestige of rank, one worker inside patiently
bearing the whole selfish burden. Well, there was the history of the anxious, struggling, middle
class of America: why need he have been goaded so intolerably by this instance? Paul's eyes
were jaundiced; he sat moodily watching the lighted window off in the darkness, through which
he could catch glimpses of the family-room within: he called it a pitiful tragedy going on
there; yet it seemed to be a cheerful and hearty life. This girl Grey, whom he looked on as
one might on some victim from whose lungs the breath was drawn slowly, was fresh, careless,
light-hearted enough. Going to and fro in the room, now carrying one of the children, she sang
it to sleep with no doleful ditty, such as young women fresh from boarding-school affect, but
with a ringing, cheery song. You might be sure that Baby would wake laughing to-morrow morning
after it. He could see her shadow pass and repass the windows; she would be out presently;
she was used to come out always after the hot day's flurry,--to say her prayers, he believed;
and he chose to see her there in the dark and coolness to bid her good-bye. He waited, not
patiently.

Grey, trotting up and down, holding by the chubby legs and wriggling arms of Master Pen, sang
herself out of breath with "Roy's Wife," and stopped short.

"I'm sure, Pen, I don't know what to do with you,"--half ready to cry.

"'Dixie,' now, Sis."

Pen was three years old, but he was the baby when his mother died; so Sis walked him to sleep
every night: all tender memories of her who was gone clinging about the little fat lump of
mischief in his white night-gown. A wiry voice spoke out of some corner,--

"Yer 'd hev a thumpin' good warmin', Mars' Penrose, ef ole Oth hed his will o' yer! It 'ud
be a special 'pensation ob de Lord fur dat chile!"

Pen prospected his sister's face with the corner of one blue eye. There was a line about the
freckled cheeks and baby-mouth of "Sis" that sometimes agreed with Oth on the subject of dispensations,
but it was not there to-night.

"No, no, uncle. Not the last thing before he goes to bed. I always try, myself, to see something
bright and pretty for the last thing, and then shut my eyes, quick,--just as Pen will do now:
quick! there's my sonny boy!"

Nobody ever called Grey Gurney pretty; but Pen took an immense delight in her now; shook and
kicked her for his pony, but could not make her step less firm or light; thrust his hands about
her white throat; pulled the fine reddish hair down; put his dumpling face to hers. A thin,
uncertain face, but Pen knew nothing of that; he did know, though, that the skin was fresh
and dewy as his own, the soft lips very ready for kisses, and the pale hazel eyes just as straightforward-looking
as a baby's. Children and dogs believe in women like Grey Gurney. Finally, from pure exhaustion,
Pen cuddled up and went to sleep.

It was a long, narrow room where Grey and the children were, covered with rag-carpet, (she
and the boys and old Oth had made the balls for it last winter): well lighted, for Father Gurney
had his desk in there to-night. He was working at his catalogue of Sauroidichnites in Pennsylvania.
A tall, lean man, with hook-nose, and peering, protruding, blue eyes. Captain McKinstry sat
by him, turning over Brongniart; his brain, if one might judge from the frequency with which
he blew his nose, evidently the worse from the wear since he came in; glancing with an irresolute
awe from the book to the bony frame of the old man in his red dressing-gown, and then to the
bony carcasses of the birds on the wall in their dusty plumage.

"Like enough each to t' other," old Oth used to mutter; "on'y dem birds done forgot to eat,
an' Mars' Gurney neber will, gorry knows dat!"

"If you could, Captain McKinstry,"--it was the old man who spoke now, with a sort of whiffle
through his teeth,--"if you could? A chip of shale next to this you brought this evening would
satisfy me. This is evidently an original fossil foot-mark: no work of Indians. I'll go with
you,"--gathering his dressing-gown about his lank-legs.

"No," said the Captain, some sudden thought bringing gravity and self-reliance into his face.
"My little girl is going with Uncle Dan. It's the last walk I can take with her. Go, child,
and bring your bonnet."

Little Lizzy (people generally called her that) got up from the door-step where she sat, and
ran up-stairs. She was one of those women who look as if they ought to be ordered and taken
care of. Grey put a light shawl over her shoulders as she passed her. Grey thought of Lizzy
always very much as a piece of fine porcelain among some earthen crocks, she being a very rough
crock herself. Did not she have to make a companion in some Ways of old Oth? When she had no
potatoes for dinner, or could get no sewing to pay for Lizzy's shoes, (Lizzy was hard on her
shoes, poor thing!) she found herself talking it over with Oth. The others did not-care for
such things, and it would be mean to worry them, but Oth liked a misery, and it was such a
relief to tell things sometimes! The old negro had been a slave of her grandfather's until
he was of age; he was quite helpless now, having a disease of the spine. But Grey had brought
him to town with them, "because, you know, uncle, I couldn't keep house without you, at all,--I
really couldn't." So he had his chair covered with sheepskin in the sunniest corner always,
and Grey made over her father's old clothes for him on the machine. Oth had learned to knit,
and made "hisself s'ficiently independent, heelin' an' ribbin' der boys' socks, an' keepin'
der young debbils in order," he said.

It was but a cheap machine Grey had, but a sturdy little chap; the steel band of it, even the
wheel, flashed back a jolly laugh at her as she passed it, slowly hushing Pen, as if it would
like to say, "I'll put you through, Sis!" and looked quite contemptuously at the heaps of white
muslin piled up beside it. The boys' shirts, you know,--but wasn't it a mercy she had made
enough to buy them before muslin went up? There were three of the boys asleep now, legs and
arms adrift over the floor, pockets gorged with half-apples, bits of twine instead of suspenders,
other surreptitious bits under their trousers for straps. There were the twins, girls of ten,
hungering for beaux, pickles, and photographic albums. They were gone to a party in the village.
"Sis" had done up their white dresses; and such fun as they had with her, putting them on to
hide the darns! She made it so comical that they laughed more than they did the whole evening.

Grey had saved some money to buy them ribbon for sashes, but Joseph had taken it from her work-basket
that morning to buy cigars. One of the girls had cried, and even Grey's lips grew scarlet;
her Welsh blood maddened. This woman was neither an angel nor an idiot, Paul Blecker. Then--it
was such a trifle! Poor Joseph! he had been her mother's favorite, was spoiled a little. So
she hurried to his chamber-door with his shaving-water, calling, "Brother!" Grey had a low,
always pleasant voice, I remember; you looked in her eyes, when you heard it, to see her laughing.
The ex-Congressman was friendly, but dignified, when he took the water. Grey presumed on her
usefulness; women seldom did know their place.

There was yet another girl busy now, convoying the lubberly hulks of boys to bed,--a solid,
Dutch-built little clipper, Loo by name. Loo looked upon Grey secretly as rather silly; (she
did all the counting for her; Grey hardly knew the multiplication-table;) she always, however,
kept her opinions to herself. Tugging the boys after her in the manner of a tow-boat, she thumped
past her father and "that gype, McKinstry, colloging over their bits of rock," indignation
in every twist of her square shoulders.

"Fresh air," she said to Grey, jerking her head emphatically toward the open door.

"I will, Looey."

"Looey! Pish!"

It was no admiring glance she bestowed on the slight figure that came down the stairs, and
stood timidly waiting for McKinstry.

"You're going, Captain?" the old man's nose and mind starting suddenly up from his folio. "Lizzy,--eh?
Here's the bit of rock. In the coal formation, you say? Impossible, then, to be as old as the
batrachian track that"--

A sudden howl brought him back to the present era. Loo was arguing her charge up to bed by
a syllogism applied at the right time in the right place. The old man held his hands to his
ears with a patient smile, until McKinstry was out of hearing.

"It is hard to devote the mind pure to a search for truth here, my daughter," looking over
Grey's head as usual, with pensive, benevolent eyes. "But I do what I can,--I do what I can."

"I know, father,"--stroking his hair as she might a child's, trimming the lamp, and bringing
his slippers while he held out his feet for her to put them on,--"I know."

Then, when he took up the pen, she went out into the cool night.

"I do what I can," said he, earnestly, looking at the catalogue, with his head to one side.

It was Oth's time,--now or never.

"Debbil de bit yer do! Ef yer did what yer could, Mars' Si, dar 'ud be more 'n one side o'
sparerib in de cellar fur ten hungry mouths. We've gone done eat dat pig o' Miss Grey's from
head ter tail. An' pigs in June's a disgrace ter Christians, let alone Presbyterians like us uns."

The old man glanced at him. Oth's spine gave his tongue free license.

"I'll discharge him," faintly.

"'Scharge yerself," growled Oth, under his breath.

So the old man went back to his batrachians, and Oth ribbed Pen's sock in silence: the old
fort stood at last as quiet in the moonlight as if it were thinking over all of its long-ago
Indian sieges.

Grey's step was noiseless, going down the tan-bark path. She drew long breaths, her lungs being
choked with the day's work, and threw back the hair from her forehead and throat. There was
a latent dewiness in the air that made the clear moonlight as fresh and invigorating as a winter's
morning. Grey stretched out her arms in it, with a laugh, as a child might. You would know,
to look at her hair, that there was a strong poetic capacity in that girl below her simple
Quaker character; as it lay in curly masses where the child had pulled it down, there was no
shine, but clear depth of color in it: her eyes the same; not soggy, black, flashing as women's
are who effuse their experience every day for the benefit of by-standers; this girl's were
pale hazel, clear, meaningless at times, but when her soul did force itself to the light they
gave it fit utterance. Women with hair and eyes like those, with passionate lips and strong
muscles like Grey Gurney's, are children, single-natured all their lives, until some day God's
test comes: then they live tragedies, unconscious of their deed.

The night was singularly clear, in its quiet: only a few dreamy trails of gray mist, asleep
about the moon: far off on the crest of the closing hills, she fancied she could see the wind-stir
in the trees that made a feathered shadow about the horizon. She leaned on the stile, looking
over the sweep of silent meadows and hills, and slow--creeping watercourses. The whole earth
waited, she fancied, with newer life and beauty than by day: going back, it might be, in the
pure moonlight, to remember that dawn when God said, "Let there be light." The girl comprehended
the meaning of the night better, perhaps, because of the house she had left. Every night she
came out there. She left the clothes and spareribs behind her, and a Something, a Grey Gurney
that might have been, came back to her in the coolness and rest, the nearer she drew to the
pure old earth. She never went down into those mossy hollows, or among the shivering pines,
with a soiled, tawdry dress; she wore always the clear, primitive colors, or white,--Grey:
it was the girl's only bit of self-development. This night she could see McKinstry's figure,
as he went down the path through the rye-field. He was stooping, leading Lizzy by the hand,
as a nurse might an infant. Grey thrust the currant-bushes aside eagerly; she could catch a
glimpse of the girl's face in the colorless light. It always had a livid tinge, but she fancied
it was red now with healthy blushes; her eyes were on the ground: in the house they looked
out from under their heavy brows on their daily life with a tired coldness that made silly
Grey ashamed of her own light-heartedness. The man's common face was ennobled with such infinite
tenderness and pain, Grey thought the help that lay therein would content her sister. It was
time for the girl's rest to come; she was sick of herself and of life. So the tears came to
Grey's eyes, though to the very bottom of her heart she was thankful and glad.

"She has found home at last!"--she said; and, maybe, because something in the thought clung
to her as she sauntered slowly down the garden--alleys, her lips kept moving in a childish
fashion of hers. "A home at last, at last!"--that was what she said.

Paul Blecker, too, waiting back yonder among the trees, saw McKinstry and his companion, and
read the same story that Grey did, but in a different fashion. "The girl loves him." There
were possibilities, however, in that woman's curious traits, that Blecker, being a physician
and a little of a soul-fancier, saw: nothing in McKinstry's formal, orthodox nature ran parallel
with them; therefore he never would know them. As they passed Blecker's outlook through the
trees, his half-shut eye ran over her,--the despondent step, the lithe, nervous limbs, the
manner in which she clung for protection to his horny hand. "Poor child!" the Doctor thought.
There was something more, in the girl's face, that, people called gentle and shy: a weak, uncertain
chin; thin lips, never still an instant, opening and shutting like a starving animal's; gray
eyes, dead, opaque, such as Blecker had noted in the spiritual mediums in New England.

"I'm glad it is McKinstry she loves, and not I," he said.

He turned, and forgot her, watching Grey coming nearer to him. The garden sloped down to the
borders of the creek, and she stood on its edge now, looking at the uneasy crusting of the
black water and the pearly glint of moonlight. Thinking of Lizzy, and the strong love that
held her; feeling a little lonely, maybe, and quiet, she did not know why; trying to wrench
her thoughts back to the house, and the clothes, and the spareribs. Why! he could read her
thoughts on her face as if it were a baby's! A homely, silly girl they called her. He thanked
God nobody had found her out before him. Look at the dewy freshness of her skin! how pure she
was! how the world would knock her about, if he did not keep his hold on her! But he would
do that; to-night he meant to lay his hand upon her life, and never take it off, absorb it
in his own. She moved forward into the clear light: that was right. There was a broken boll
of a beech--tree covered with lichen: she should sit on that, presently, her face in open light,
he in the shadow, while he told her. "Watching her with hot breath where she stood, then going
down to her:--

"Is Grey waiting to bid her friend good-bye?"

She put her hand in his,--her very lips trembling with the sudden heat, her untrained eyes
wandering restlessly.

"I thought you would come to me, Doctor Blecker."

"Call me Paul," roughly. "I was coarser born and bred than you. I want to think that matters
nothing to you."

She looked up proudly.

"You know it matters nothing. I am not vulgar."

"No, Grey. But--it is curious, but no one ever called me Paul, as boy or man. It is a sign
of equality; and I've always had, in the mélée, the underneath taint about me. You are not
vulgar enough to care for it. Yours is the highest and purest nature I ever knew. Yet I know
it is right for you to call me Paul. Your soul and mine stand on a plane before God."

The childish flush left her face; the timid woman-look was in it now. He bent nearer.

"They stand there alone, Grey."

She drew back from him, her hands nervously catching in the thick curls.

"You do not believe that?" his breath clogged and hot. "It is a fancy of mine? not true?"

"It is true."

He caught the whisper, his face growing pale, his eyes flashing.

"Then you are mine, child! What is the meaning of these paltry contradictions? Why do you evade
me from day to day?"

"You promised me not to speak of this again,"--weakly.

"Pah! You have a man's straightforward, frank instinct, Grey; and this is cowardly,--paltry,
as I said before. I will speak of it again. To-night is all that is left to me."

He seated her upon the beech-trunk. One could tell by the very touch and glance of the man
how the image of this woman stood solitary in his coarser thoughts, delicate, pure: a disciple
would have laid just such reverential fingers on the robe of the Madonna. Then he stood off
from her, looking straight into her hazel eyes. Grey, with all her innocent timidity, was the
cooler, stronger, maybe, of the two: the poor Doctor's passionate nature, buffeted from one
anger and cheat to another in the world, brought very little quiet or tact or aptitude in language
for this one hour. Yet, standing there, his man's sturdy heart throbbing slow as an hysteric
woman's, his eyeballs burning, it seemed to him that all his life had been but the weak preface
to these words he was going to speak.

"It angers me," he muttered, abruptly, "that, when I come to you with the thought that a man's
or a woman's soul can hold but once in life, you put me aside with the silly whims of a schoolgirl.
It is not worthy of you, Grey. You are not as other women."

What was this that he had touched? She looked up at him steadily, her hands clasped about her
knees, the childlike rose-glow and light banished from her face.

"I am not like other women. You speak truer than you know. You call me a silly, happy child.
Maybe I am; but, Paul, once in my life God punished me. I don't know for what,"--getting up,
and stretching out her groping arms, blindly.

There was a sudden silence. This was not the cheery, healthful Grey Gurney of a moment before,
this woman with the cold terror creeping out in her face. He caught her hands and held them.

"I don't know for what," she moaned. "He did it. He is good."

He watched the slow change in her face: it made his hands tremble as they held hers. No longer
a child, but a woman whose soul the curse had touched. Miriam, leprous from God's hand, might
have thus looked up to Him without the camp. Blecker drew her closer. Was she not his own?
He would defend her against even this God, for whom he cared but little.

"What has been done to you, child?"

She shook herself free, speaking in a fast, husky whisper.

"Do not touch me, Dr. Blecker. It was no school-girl's whim that kept me from you. I am not
like other women. I am not worthy of any man's love."

"I think I know what you mean," he said, gravely. "I know your story, Grey. They made you live
a foul lie once. I know it all. You were a child then."

She had gone still farther from him, holding by the trunk of a dead tree, her face turned towards
the water. The black sough of wind from it lifted her hair, and dampened her forehead. The
man's brain grew clearer, stronger, somehow, as he looked at her; as thought does in the few
electric moments of life when sham and conventionality crumble down like ashes, and souls stand
bare, face to face. For the every-day, cheery, unselfish Grey of the coarse life in yonder
he cared but little; it was but the husk that held the woman whose nature grappled with his
own, that some day would take it with her to the Devil or to God. He knew that. It was this
woman that stood before him now: looking back, out of the inbred force and purity within her,
the indignant man's sense of honor that she had, on the lie they had made her live: daring
to face the truth, that God had suffered this thing, yet clinging, like a simple child, to
her old faith in Him. That childish faith, that worked itself out in her common life, Paul
Blecker set aside, in loving her. She was ignorant: he knew the world, and, he thought, very
plainly saw that the Power who had charge of it suffered unneeded ills, was a traitor to the
Good his own common sense and kindly feeling could conceive; which is the honest belief of
most of the half-thinkers in America.

"You were but a child," he said again. "It matters nothing to me, Grey. It left no taint upon you."

"It did," she cried, passionately. "I carry the marks of it to my grave. I never shall be pure
again."

"Why did your God let you go down into such foulness, then?"--the words broke from his lips
irrepressibly. "It was He who put you in the hands of a selfish woman; it was He who gave you
a weak will. It is He who suffers marriages as false as yours. Why, child! you call it crime,
the vow that bound you for that year to a man you loathed; yet the world celebrates such vows
daily in every church in Christendom."

"I know that";--her voice had gone down into its quiet sob, like a little child's.

She sat down on the ground, now, the long shore-grass swelling up around her, thrusting her
fingers into the pools of eddying water, with a far-off sense of quiet and justice and cold
beneath there.

"I don't understand," she said. "The world's wrong somehow. I don't think God does it. There's
thousands of young girls married as I was. Maybe, if I 'd told Him about it, it wouldn't have
ended as it did. I did not think He cared for such things."

Blecker was silent. What did he care for questions like this now? He sat by her on the broken
trunk, his elbows on his knees, his sultry eyes devouring her face and body. What did it matter,
if once she had been sold to another man? She was free now: he was dead. He only knew that
here was the only creature in earth or heaven that he loved: there was not a breath in her
lungs, a tint of her flesh, that was not dear to him, allied by some fierce passion to his
own sense: there was that in her soul which he needed, starved for: his life balked blank here,
demanding it,--her,--he knew not what: but that gained, a broader freedom opened behind, unknown
possibilities of honor and truth and deed. He would take no other step, live no farther, until
he gained her. Holding, too, the sense of her youth, her rare beauty, as it seemed to him;
loving it with keener passion because he alone developed it, drawing her soul to the light!
how like a baby she was: how dainty the dimpling white flesh of her arms, the soft limbs crouching
there! So pure, the man never came near her without a dull loathing of himself, a sudden remembrance
of places where he had been tainted, made unfit to touch her,--rows in Bowery dance-houses,
waltzes with musk-scented fine ladies: when this girl put her cool little hand in his sometimes,
he felt tears coming to his eyes, as if the far-off God or the dead mother had blessed him.
She sat there, now, going back to that blot in her life, her eyes turned every moment up to
the Power beyond in whom she trusted, to know why it had been. He had seen little children,
struck by their mother's hand, turn on them a look just so grieved and so appealing.

"It was no one's fault altogether, Paul," she said. "My mother was not selfish, more than other
women. There were very many mouths to feed: it is so in most families like ours."

"I know."

"I am very dull about books,--stupid, they say. I could not teach; and they would not let me
sew for money, because of the disgrace. These are the only ways a woman has. If I had been a boy"--

"I understand."

"No man can understand,"--her voice growing shrill with pain. "It's not easy to eat the bread
needed for other mouths day after day, with your hands tied, idle and helpless. A boy can go
out and work, in a hundred ways: a girl must marry; it's her only chance for a livelihood,
or a home, or anything to fill her heart with. Don't blame my mother, Paul. She had ten of
us to work for. From the time I could comprehend, I knew her only hope was, to live long enough
to see her boys educated, and her daughters in homes of their own. It was the old story, Doctor
Blecker,"--with a shivering laugh more pitiful than a cry. "I've noticed it since in a thousand
other houses. Young girls like me in these poor-genteel families,--there are none of God's
creatures more helpless or goaded, starving at their souls. I couldn't teach. I had no talent;
but if I had, a woman's a woman: she wants something else in her life than dog-eared school-books
and her wages year after year."

Blecker could hardly repress a smile.

"You are coming to political economy by a woman's road, Grey."

"I don't know what that is. I know what my life was then. I was only a child; but when that
man came and held out his hand to take me, I was willing when they gave me to him,--when they
sold me, Doctor Blecker. It was like leaving some choking pit, where air was given to me from
other lungs, to go out and find it for my own. What marriage was or ought to be I did not know;
but I wanted, as every human being does want, a place for my own feet to stand on, not to look
forward to the life of an old maid, living on sufferance, always the one too many in the house."

"That is weak and vulgar argument, child. It should not touch a true woman, Grey. Any young
girl can find work and honorable place for herself in the world, without the defilement of
a false marriage."

"I know that now. But young girls are not taught that. I was only a child, not strong-willed.
And now, when I'm free,"--a curious clearness coming to her eye,--"I'm glad to think of it
all. I never blame other women. Because, you see,"--looking up with the flickering smile,--"a
woman's so hungry for something of her own to love, for some one to be kind to her, for a little
house and parlor and kitchen of her own; and if she marries the first man who says he loves
her, out of that first instinct of escape from dependence, and hunger for love, she does not
know she is selling herself, until it's too late. The world's all wrong, somehow."

She stopped, her troubled face still upturned to his.

"But you,--you are free now?"

"He is dead."

She slowly rose as she spoke, her voice hardening.

"He was my cousin, you know,--the same name as mine. Only a year he was with me. Then he went
to Cuba, where he died. He is dead. But I am not free,"--lifting her hands fiercely, as she
spoke. "Nothing can wipe the stain of that year off of me."

"You know what man he was," said the Doctor, with a natural thrill of pleasure that he could
say it honestly. "I know, poor child! A vapid, cruel tyrant, weak, foul. You hated him, Grey?
There's a strength of hatred in your blood. Answer me. You dare speak truth to me."

"He's dead now,"--with a long, choking breath. "We will not speak of him."

She stood a moment, looking down the stretch of curdling black water,--then, turning with a
sudden gesture, as though she flung something from her, looked at him with a pitiful effort
to smile.

"I don't often think of that time. I cannot bear pain very well. I like to be happy. When I'm
busy now, or playing with little Pen, I hardly believe I am the woman who was John Gurney's
wife. I was so old then! I was like a hard, tigerish soul, tried and tempted day by day. He
made me that."

She could not bear pain, he saw: remembrance of it, alone, made the flesh about her lips blue,
unsteadied her brain; the well-accented face grew vacant, dreary; neither nerves nor will of
this woman were tough. Her family were not the stuff out of which voluntary heroes are made.
He saw, too, she was thrusting it back,--out of thought: it was her temperament to do that.

"So, now, Grey," he said, cheerfully, "the story's told. Shall we lay that ghost of the old
life, and see what these healthful new years have for us?"

Paul Blecker's voice was never so strong or pure: whatever of coarseness had clung to him fell
off then, as he came nearer to the weak woman whom God had given to him to care for; whatever
of latent manhood, of chivalry, slept beneath, some day to make him an earnest husband and
father, and helpful servant of the True Man, came out in his eager face and eye, now. He took
her two hands in his: how strong his muscles were! how the man's full pulse throbbed healthfully
against her own! She looked up with a sudden blush and smile. A minute ago she thought herself
so strong to renounce! She meant, this weak, incomplete woman, to keep to the shame of that
foul old lie of hers, accepting that as her portion for life. There is a chance comes to some
few women, once in their lives, to escape into the full development of their natures by contact
with the one soul made in the same mould as their own. It came to this woman to-night. Grey
was no theorist about it: all that she knew was, that, when Paul Blecker stood near her, for
the first time in her life she was not alone,--that, when he spoke, his words were but more
forcible utterances of her own thought,--that, when she thought of leaving him, it was like
drawing the soul from her living body, to leave it pulseless, dead. Yet she would do it.

"I am not fit to be any man's wife. If you had come to me when I was a child, it might have
been,--it ought to have been,"--with an effort to draw her hands from him.

Blecker only smiled, and seated her gently on the mossy boll of the beech-tree.

"Stay. Listen to me," he whispered.

And Grey, being a woman and no philosopher, sat motionless, her hands folded, nerveless, where
he had let them fall, her face upturned, like that of the dead maiden waiting the touch of
infinite love to tremble and glow back into beautiful life. He did not speak, did not touch
her, only bent nearer. It seemed to him, as the pure moonlight then held them close in its
silent bound, the great world hushed without, the light air scarce daring to touch her fair,
waiting face, the slow-heaving breast, the kindling glow in her dark hair, that all the dead
and impure years fell from them, and in a fresh new-born life they stood alone, with the great
Power of strength and love for company. What need was there of words? She knew it all: in the
promise and question of his face waited for her the hope and vigor the time gone had never
known: her woman's nature drooped and leaned on his, content: the languid hazel eye followed
his with such intent, one would have fancied that her soul in that silence had found its rest
and home forever.

He took her hand, and drew from it the old ring that yet bound one of her fingers, the sign
of a lie long dead, and without a word dropped it in the current below them. The girl looked
up suddenly, as it fell: her eyes were wet: the woman whom Christ loosed from her infirmity
of eighteen years might have thanked him with such a look as Grey's that night. Then she looked
back to her earthly master.

"It is dead now, child, the past,--never to live again. Grey holds a new life in her hands
to-night." He stopped: the words came weak, paltry, for his meaning. "Is there nothing with
which she dares to fill it? no touch that will make it dear, holy for her?"

There was a heavy silence. Nature rose impatient in the crimson blood that dyed her lips and
cheek, in the brilliance of her eye; but she forced back the words that would have come, and
sat timid and trembling.

"None, Grey? You are strong and cool. I know. The lie dead and gone from your life, you can
control the years alone, with your religion and cheery strength. Is that what you would say?"--bitterly.

She did not answer. The color began to fade, the eyes to dim.

"You have told me your story; let me tell you mine,"--throwing himself on the grass beside
her. "Look at me, Grey. Other women have despised me, as rough, callous, uncouth: you never
have. I've had no hot-house usage in the world; the sun and rain hardly fell on me unpaid.
I've earned every inch of this flesh and muscle, worked for it as it grew; the knowledge that
I have, scanty enough, but whatever thought I do have of God or life, I've had to grapple and
struggle for. Other men grow, inhale their being, like yonder tree God planted and watered.
I think sometimes He forgot me,"--with a curious woman's tremor in his voice, gone in an instant.
"I scrambled up like that scraggy parasite, without a root. Do you know now why I am sharp,
wary, suspicious, doubt if there be a God? Grey," turning fiercely, "I am tired of this. God
did make me. I want rest. I want love, peace, religion, in my life."

She said nothing. She forgot herself, her timid shyness now, and looked into his eyes, a noble,
helpful woman, sounding the depths of the turbid soul laid bare for her.

He laid his big, ill-jointed hand on her knee.

"I thought," he said.--great drops of sweat coming out on his sallow lips,--"God meant you
to help me. There is my life, little girl. You may do what you will with it. It does not value
much to me."

And Grey, woman-like, gathered up the despised hand and life, and sobbed a little as she pressed
them to her heart. An hour after, they went together up the old porch-steps, halting a moment
where the grape-vines clustered thickest about the shingled wall. The house was silent; even
the village slept in the moonlight: no sound of life in the great sweep of dusky hill and valley,
save the wreaths of mist over the watercourses, foaming and drifting together silently: before
morning they would stretch from base to base of the hills like a Dead Sea, ashy and motionless.
They stood silent a moment, until the chirp of some robin, frightened by their steps in its
nest overhead, had hummed drowsily down into sleep.

"It is not good-night, but good-bye, that I must bid you, Grey," he said, stooping to see her face.

"I know. But you will come again. God tells me that."

"I will come. Remember, Grey, I am going to save life, not to take it. Corrupt as I am, my
hands are clean of this butchery for the sake of interest."

Grey's eyes wandered. She knows nothing about the war, to be candid: only that it is like a
cold pain at her heart, day and night,--sorry that the slaves are slaves, wondering if they
could be worse off than the free negroes swarming in the back-alleys yonder,--as sorry, being
unpatriotic, for the homeless women in Virginia as for the stolen horses of Chambersburg. Grey's
principles, though mixed, are sound, as far as they go, you see. Just then thinking only of
herself.

"You will come back to me?" clinging to his arm.

"Why, I must come back," cheerfully, choking back whatever stopped his breath, pushing back
the curling hair from her forehead with a half-reverential touch. "I have so much, to do, little
girl! There is a farm over yonder I mean to earn enough to buy, where you and I shall rest
and study and grow,--stronger and healthier, more helpful every day. We'll find our work and
place in the world yet, poor child! You shall show me what a pure, earnest life is, Grey, and
above us--what there is there," lowering his voice. "And I,--how much I have to do with this
bit of humanity here on my hands!"--playfully. "An unhewn stone, with the beautiful statue
lying perdu within. Bid you know you were that, Grey? and I the sculptor?"

She looked up bewildered.

"It is true," passing his fingers over the low, broad, curiously moulded forehead. "My girl
does not know what powers and subtile forces lie asleep beneath this white skin? I know. I
know lights and words and dramas of meaning these childish eyes hold latent: that I will set
free. I will teach your very silent lips a new language. You never guessed how like a prison
your life has been, how unfinished you are; but I thank God for it, Grey. You would not have
loved me, if it had been different; I can grow with you now, grow to your height, if--He helps me."

He took off his hat, and stood, looking silently into the deep blue above,--for the first time
in his life coming to his Friend with a manly, humble look. His eyes were not clear when he
spoke again, his voice very quiet.

"Good bye, Grey! I'm going to try to be a better man than I've ever been. You are my wife now
in His eyes. I need you so: for life and for eternity, I think. You will remember that?"

And so, holding her to his heart a moment or two, and kissing her lips passionately once or
twice, he left her, trying to smile as he went down the path, but with a strange clogging weight
in his breast, as if his heart would not beat.

Going in, Grey found the old negro asleep over his knitting, the candle with a flaring black
crust beside him.

"He waited for me," she said; and as she stroked the skinny old hand, the tears came at the
thought of it. Everybody was so kind to her! The world was so foil of love! God was so good
to her to-night!

Oth, waking fully as she helped him to his room-door, looked anxiously in her face.

"Er' ye well to-night, chile?" he said. "Yer look as yer did when yer wor a little baby. Peart
an' purty yer wor, dat's true. Der good Lord loved yer, I think."

"He loves me now," she said, softly, to herself, as in her own room she knelt down and thanked
Him, and then, undressed, crept into the white trundle-bed beside little Pen; and when he woke,
and, putting his little arms about her neck, drew her head close to his to kiss her good-night,
she cried quietly to herself, and fell asleep with the tears upon her cheek.

Her sister, in the next room to hers, with the same new dream in her heart, did not creep into
any baby's arms for sympathy. Lizzy Gurney never had a pet, dog or child. She sat by the window
waiting, her shawl about her head in the very folds McKinstry had wrapped it, motionless, as
was her wont. But for the convulsive movement of her lips now and then, no gutta-percha doll
could be more utterly still. As the night wore down into the intenser sleep of the hours after
midnight, her watch grew more breathless. The moon sank far enough in the west to throw the
beams directly across her into the dark chamber behind. She was a small-moulded woman, you
could see now: her limbs, like those of a cat, or animals of that tribe, from their power of
trance-like quiet, gave you the idea of an intense vitality: a gentle face,--pretty, the villagers
called it, from its waxy tint and faint coloring,--you wished to do something for her, seeing
it. Paul Blecker never did: the woman never spoke to him; but he noted often the sudden relaxed
droop of the eyelids, when she sat alone, as if some nerve had grown weary: he had seen that
peculiarity in some women before, and knew all it meant. He had nothing for her; her hunger
lay out of his ken.

It grew later: the moon hung now so low that deep shadows lay heavy over the whole valley;
not a breath broke the sleep of the night; even the long melancholy howl of the dog down in
camp was hushed long since. When the clock struck two, she got up and went noiselessly out
into the open air. There was no droop in her eyelids now; they were straight, nerved, the eyes
glowing with a light never seen by day beneath them. Down the long path into the cornfield,
slowly, pausing at some places, while her lips moved as though she repeated words once heard
there. What folly was this? Was this woman's life so bare, so empty of its true food, that
she must needs go back and drag again into life a few poor, happy moments? distil them slowly,
to drink them again drop by drop? I have seen children so live over in their play the one great
holiday of their lives. Down through the field to the creek-ford, where the stones lay for
crossing, slippery with moss: she could feel the strong grasp of the hand that had led her
over there that night; and so, with slow, and yet slower step, where the path had been rocky,
and she had needed cautious help. Into the thicket of lilacs, with the old scent of the spring
blossoms yet hanging on their boughs; along the bank, where her foot had sunk deep into plushy
moss, where he had gathered a cluster of fern and put it into her hand. Its pale feathery green
was not more quaint or pure than the delicate love in the uncouth man beside her,--not nearer
kin to Nature. Did she know that? Had it been like the breath of God coming into her nostrils
to be so loved, appreciated, called home, as she had been to-night? Was she going back to feel
that breath again? Neither pain nor pleasure was on her face: her breath came heavy and short,
her eyes shone, that was all. Out now into the open road, stopping and glancing around with
every broken twig, being a cowardly creature, yet never leaving the track of the footsteps
in the dust, where she had gone before. Coming at last to the old-fashioned gabled house, where
she had gone when site was a child, set in among stiff rows of evergreens. A breathless quiet
always hung about the place: a pure, wholesome atmosphere, because pure and earnest people
had acted out their souls there, and gone home to God. He had led her through the gate here,
given her to drink of the well at the side of the house. "My mother never would taste any water
but this, do you remember, Lizzy?" They had gone through the rooms, whispering, if they spoke,
as though it were a church. Here was the pure dead sister's face looking down from the wall;
there his mother's worn wicker work-stand. Her work was in it still. "The needle just where
she placed it, Lizzy." The strong man was weak as a little child with the memory of the old
mother who had nursed and loved him as no other could love. He stood beside her chair irresolute;
forty years ago he had stood there, a little child bringing all his troubles to be healed:
since she died no hand had touched it. "Will you sit there, Lizzy? You are dearer to me than
she. When I come back, will you take their place here? Only you are pure as they, and dearer,
Lizzy. We will go home to them hand in hand." She sat in the dead woman's chair. She. Looking
in at her own heart as she did it. Yet her love for him would make her fit to sit there: she
believed that. He had not kissed her,--she was too sacred to the simple-hearted man for that,--had
only taken her little hand in both his, saying, "God bless you, little Lizzy!" in an unsteady
voice.

"He may never say it again," the girl said, when she crept home from her midnight pilgrimage.
"I'll come here every day and live it all over again. It will keep me quiet until he comes.
Maybe he'll never come,"--catching her breast, and tearing it until it grew black. She was
so tired of herself, this child! She would have torn that nerve in her heart out that sometimes
made her sick, if she could. Her life was so cramped, and selfish, too, and she knew it. Passing
by the door of Grey's room, she saw her asleep with Pen in her arms,--some other little nightcapped
heads in the larger beds. She slept alone. "They tire me so!" she said; "yet I think," her
eye growing fiercer, "if I had anything all my own, if I had a little baby to make pure and
good, I'd be a better girl. Maybe--he will make me better."

Paul Blecker, heart-anatomist, laughed when this woman, with the aching brain and the gnawing
hunger at heart, seized on the single, Christ-like love of McKinstry, a common, bigoted man,
and made it her master and helper. Her instinct was wiser than he, being drifted by God's under-currents
of eternal order. That One who knows when the sparrow is ready for death knows well what things
are needed for a tired girl's soul.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FERN FORESTS OF THE CARBONIFEROUS PERIOD.

Draw two lines on your map, the upper one running from the mouth of the St. Lawrence westward
nearly to St. Paul on the Mississippi, and the lower one from the neighborhood of St. John's
in Newfoundland running southwesterly about to the point where the Wisconsin joins the Mississippi,
but jutting down to form an extensive peninsula comprising part of the States of Indiana and
Illinois, and you include between them all of the United States which existed at the close
of the Devonian period. The upper line rests against the granite hills dividing the Silurian
and Devonian deposits of the British Possessions to the north from those of the United States
to the south, Canada itself consisting, in great part, of the granite ridge.

How far the early deposits extended to the north of the Laurentian Hills, as well as the outline
of that portion of the continent in those times, remains still very problematical; but the
investigations thus far undertaken in those regions would lead to the supposition that the
same granite upheaval which raised Canada stretched northward in a broad, low ridge of land,
widening in its upper part and extending to the neighborhood of Bathurst Inlet and King William's
Island, while on either side of it to the east and west the Silurian and Devonian deposits
extended far toward the present outlines of the continent.

Indeed, our geological surveys, as well as the information otherwise obtained concerning the
primitive condition of North America and the gradual accessions it has received in more recent
periods, point to a very early circumscription of the area which, in the course of time, was
to become the continent we now inhabit, with its modern features.[A]

[Footnote A: It would be impossible to encumber the pages of the Atlantic Monthly with references
to all the authorities on which such geological results rest. They are drawn from the various
State Surveys, including that of the mineral lands of Lake Superior, and other more general
works on American geology.]

Not only from the geology of America, but from that of Europe also, it would seem that the
position of the continents was sketched out very early in the progressive development of the
physical constitution of our earth. It is true that in the present state of our knowledge such
wide generalizations must be taken with caution, and held in abeyance to the additional facts
which future investigations may develop. But thus far the results certainly do not sustain
the theories which have lately found favor among geologists, of entire changes in the relative
distribution of land and sea and in the connection of continents with one another; on the contrary,
it would appear, that, in accordance with the laws of all organic progress, arising from a
fixed starting-point and proceeding through regular changes toward a well-defined end, the
continents have grown steadily and consistently from the beginning, through successive accessions
in a definite direction, to their present form and Organic correlations. If, indeed, there
is any meaning in the remarkably symmetrical combinations of the double twin continents in
the Eastern Hemisphere, so closely soldered in their northern half, as contrasted with the
single pair in the Western Hemisphere, isolated in their position, but so strikingly similar
in their Outlines, they must be the result of a progressive and predetermined growth already
hinted at in the relative position and gradual increase of the first lands raised above the
level of the ocean.

However this may be, there can be no doubt that we now know with tolerable accuracy the limits
of the land raised above the water at that period in the present United States. Let us see,
then, what we inclose between oar two lines. We have Newfoundland and Nova Scotia, the greater
part of New England, the whole of New York, a narrow strip along the north of Ohio, a great
part of Indiana and Illinois, and nearly the whole of Michigan and Wisconsin.

Within this region lie all the Great Lakes. The origin of these large troughs, holding such
immense sheets of fresh water, remains still the subject of discussion and investigation among
geologists. It has been supposed that in the primitive configuration of the globe, when the
formation of those depressions at the poles in which the Arctic seas are accumulated gave rise
to a corresponding protrusion at the equator, the curve thus produced throughout the North
Temperate Zone may have forced up the Canada granite, and have caused, at the same time, those
rents in the earth's surface now filled by the Canada lakes; and this view is sustained by
the fact that there is a belt of lakes, among which, however, the Canada lakes are far the
largest, all around the world in that latitude. The geological phenomena connected with all
these lakes have not, however, been investigated with sufficient accuracy and detail, nor has
there been any comparison of them extensive and comprehensive enough to justify the adoption
of any theory respecting their origin. In an excursion to Lake Superior, some years since,
I satisfied myself that the position and outline of that particular lake had their immediate
cause in several distinct systems of dikes which intersect its northern shore, and have probably
cut up the whole tract of rock over the space now filled by that wonderful sheet of fresh water
in such a way as to destroy its continuity, to produce depressions, and gradually create the
excavation which now forms the basin of the lake. How far the same causes have been effectual
in producing the other large lakes I am unable to say, never having had the opportunity of
studying their formation with the same care.

The existence of the numerous smaller lakes running north and south in the State of New York,
as the Canandaigua, Seneca, Cayuga, etc., is more easily accounted for. Slow and gradual as
was the process by which all that region was lifted above the ocean, it was, nevertheless,
accompanied by powerful dislocations of the stratified deposits, as we shall see when we examine
them with reference to the local phenomena connected with them. To these dislocations of the
strata we owe the transverse cracks across the central part of New York, which needed only
the addition of the fresh water poured into them by the rains to transform them into lakes.

I shall not attempt any account of the differences between the animals of the Devonian period
and those of the Silurian period, because they consist of structural details difficult to present
in a popular form and uninteresting to all but the professional naturalist. Suffice it to say,
that, though the organic world had the same general character in these two closely allied periods,
yet its representatives in each were specifically distinct, and their differences, however
slight, are as constant and as definitely marked as those between more widely separated creations.

At the close of the Devonian period, several upheavals occurred of great significance for the
future history of America. One in Ohio raised the elevated ground on which Cincinnati now stands;
another hill lifted its granite crest in Missouri, raising with it an extensive tract of Silurian
and Devonian deposits; while a smaller one, which does not seem, however, to have disturbed
the beds about it so powerfully, broke through in Arkansas. At the same time, elevations took
place toward the East,--the first links, few and detached, in the great Alleghany chain which
now raises its rocky wall from New England to Alabama.

In the Ohio hill, the granite did not break through, though the force of the upheaval was such
as to rend asunder the Devonian deposits, for we find them lying torn and broken about the
base of the hill; while the Silurian beds, which should underlie them in their natural position,
form its centre and summit. This accounts for the great profusion of Silurian organic remains
in that neighborhood. Indeed, there is no locality which forces upon the observer more strongly
the conviction of the profusion and richness of the early creation; for one may actually collect
the remains of Silurian Shells and Crustacea by cart-loads around the city of Cincinnati. A
naturalist would find it difficult to gather along any modern sea-shore, even on tropical coasts,
where marine life is more abundant than elsewhere, so rich a harvest, in the same time, as
he will bring home from an hour's ramble in the environs of that city.

These elevations naturally gave rise to depressions between themselves and the land on either
side of them, and caused also so many counter-slopes dipping toward the uniform southern slope
already formed at the north. Thus between the several new upheavals, as well as between them
all and the land to the north of them, wide basins or troughs were formed, inclosed on the
south, west, and east by low hills, (for these more recent eruptions were, like all the early
upheavals, insignificant in height,) and bounded on the north by the more ancient shores of
the preceding ages.

These were the inland seas of the Carboniferous period. Here, again, we must infer the successive
stages of a history which we can read only in its results. Shut out from the ocean, these shallow
sea-basins were gradually changed by the rains to fresh-water lakes; the lakes, in their turn,
underwent a transformation, becoming filled, in the course of centuries, with the materials
worn away from their shores, with the débris of the animals which lived and died in their waters,
as well as with the decaying matter from aquatic plants, till at last they were changed to
spreading marshes, and on these marshes arose the gigantic fern-vegetation of which the first
forests chiefly consisted. Such are the separate chapters in the history of the coal-basins
of Illinois, Missouri, Pennsylvania, New England, and Nova Scotia. First inland seas, then
fresh-water lakes, then spreading marshes, then gigantic forests, and lastly vast storehouses
of coal for the human race.

Although coal-beds are by no means peculiar to the Carboniferous period, since such deposits
must be formed wherever the decay of vegetation is going on extensively, yet it would seem
that coal-making was the great work in that age of the world's physical history. The atmospheric
conditions, so far as we can understand them, were then especially favorable to this result.
Though the existence of such an extensive terrestrial vegetation shows conclusively that an
atmosphere must have been already established, with all the attendant phenomena of light, heat,
air, moisture, etc., yet it is probable that this atmosphere differed from ours in being very
largely charged with carbonic acid.

We should infer this from the nature of the animals characteristic of the period; for, though
land-animals were introduced, and the organic world was no longer exclusively marine, there
were as yet none of the higher beings in whom respiration is an active process. In all warm-blooded
animals the breathing is quick, requiring a large proportion of oxygen in the surrounding air,
and indicating by its rapidity the animation of the whole system; while the slow-breathing,
cold-blooded animals can live in an air that is heavily loaded with carbon. It is well known,
however, that, though carbon is so deadly to higher animal life, plants require it in great
quantities; and it would seem that one of the chief offices of the early forests was to purify
the atmosphere of its undue proportion of carbonic acid, by absorbing the carbon into their
own substance, and eventually depositing it as coal in the soil.

Another very important agent in the process of purifying the atmosphere, and adapting it to
the maintenance of a higher organic life, is found in the deposits of lime. My readers will
excuse me, if I introduce here a very elementary chemical fact to explain this statement. Limestone
is carbonate of calcium. Calcium is a metal, fusible as such, and, forming a part of the melted
masses within the earth, it was thrown out with the eruptions of Plutonic rocks. Brought to
the air, it would appropriate a certain amount of oxygen, and by that process would become
oxide of calcium, in which condition it combines very readily with carbonic acid. Thus it becomes
carbonate of lime; and all lime deposits played an important part in establishing the atmospheric
proportions essential to the existence of the warm-blooded animals.

Such facts remind us how far more comprehensive the results of science will become when the
different branches of scientific investigation are pursued in connection with each other. When
chemists have brought their knowledge out of their special laboratories into the laboratory
of the world, where chemical combinations are and have been through all time going on in such
vast proportions,--when physicists study the laws of moisture, of clouds and storms, in past
periods as well as in the present,--when, in short, geologists and zoologists are chemists
and physicists, and vice versa,--then we shall learn more of the changes the world has undergone
than is possible now that they are separately studied.

It may be asked, how any clue can be found to phenomena so evanescent as those of clouds and
moisture. But do we not trace in the old deposits the rainstorms of past times? The heavy drops
of a passing shower, the thick, crowded tread of a splashing rain, or the small pinpricks of
a close and fine one,--all the story, in short, of the rising vapors, the gathering clouds,
the storms and showers of ancient days, we find recorded for us in the fossil rain-drops; and
when we add to this the possibility of analyzing the chemical elements which have been absorbed
into the soil, but which once made part of the atmosphere, it is not too much to hope that
we shall learn something hereafter of the meteorology even of the earliest geological ages.

The peculiar character of the vegetable tissue in the trees of the Carboniferous period, containing,
as it did, a large supply of resin drawn from the surrounding elements, confirms the view of
the atmospheric conditions above stated; and this fact, as well as the damp, soggy soil in
which the first forests must have grown, accounts for the formation of coal in greater quantity
and more combustible in quality than is found in the more recent deposits. But stately as were
those fern forests, where plants which creep low at our feet to-day, or are known to us chiefly
as underbrush, or as rushes and grasses in swampy grounds, grew to the height of lofty trees,
yet the vegetation was of an inferior kind.

There has been a gradation in time for the vegetable as well as the animal world. With the
marine population of the more ancient geological ages we find nothing but sea-weeds,--of great
variety, it is true, and, as it would seem, from some remains of the marine Cryptogams in early
times, of immense size, as compared with modern sea-weeds. But in the Carboniferous period,
the plants, though still requiring a soaked and marshy soil, were aërial or atmospheric plants:
they were covered with leaves; they breathed; their fructification was like that which now
characterizes the ferns, the club-mosses, and the so-called "horse-tail plants," (Equisetaceae,)
those grasses of low, damp grounds remarkable for the strongly marked articulations of the stem.

These were the lords of the forests all over the world in the Carboniferous period. Wherever
the Carboniferous deposits have been traced, in the United States, in Canada, in England, France,
Belgium, Germany, in New Holland, at the Cape of Good Hope, and in South America, the general
aspect of the vegetation has been found to be the same, though characterized in the different
localities by specific differences of the same nature as those by which the various floras
are distinguished now in different parts of the same zone. For instance, the Temperate Zone
throughout the world is characterized by certain families of trees: by Oaks, Maples, Beeches,
Birches, Pines, etc.; but the Oaks, Maples, Beeches, Birches, and the like, of the American
flora in that latitude differ in species from the corresponding European flora. So in the Carboniferous
period, when more uniform climatic conditions prevailed throughout the world, the character
of the vegetation showed a general unity of structure everywhere; but it was nevertheless broken
up into distinct botanical provinces by specific differences of the same kind as those which
now give such diversity of appearance to the vegetation of the Temperate Zone in Europe as
compared with that of America, or to the forests of South America as compared with those of Africa.

There can be no doubt as to the true nature of the Carboniferous forests; for the structural
character of the trees is as strongly marked in their fossil remains as in any living plants
of the same character. We distinguish the Ferns not only by the peculiar form of their leaves,
often perfectly preserved, but also by the fructification on the lower surface of the leaves,
and by the distinct marks made on the stem at their point of juncture with it. The leaf of
the Fern, when falling, leaves a scar on the stem varying in shape and size according to the
kind of Fern, so that the botanist readily distinguishes any particular species of Fern by
this means,--a birth-mark, as it were, by which he detects the parentage of the individual.
Another indication, equally significant, is found in the tubular structure of the wood in Ferns.
On a vertical section of any well-preserved Fern-trunk from the old forests the little tubes
may be seen very distinctly running up its length; or, if it be cut through transversely, they
may be traced by the little pores like dots on the surface. Trees of this description are found
in the Carboniferous marshes, standing erect and perfectly preserved, with trunks a foot and
a half in diameter, rising to a height of many feet. Plants so strongly bituminous as the Ferns,
when they equalled in size many of our present forest-trees, naturally made coal deposits of
the most combustible quality. It is true that we find the anthracite coal of the same period
with comparatively little bituminous matter; but this is where the bitumen has been destroyed
by the action of the internal heat of the earth.

Next to the Ferns, the Club-Mosses (Lycopodiacae) seem to have contributed most largely to
the marsh-forests. They were characterized, then, as now, by the small size of the leaves growing
close against the stem, so that the stem itself, though covered with leaves, looks almost naked,
like the stem of the Cactus. Beside these, there are the tree-like Equiseta, in which we find
the articulations on the trunk corresponding exactly to those now so characteristic of those
marsh-grasses which are the modern representatives of this family of plants, with cone-like
fructifications on the summit of the stem.

I would merely touch here upon a subject which does not belong to my own branch of Natural
History, but is of the greatest interest in botanical research, namely, the gradation of plants
in the geological ages, and the combination of characters in some of the earlier vegetable
forms, corresponding to that already noticed in the ancient animal types. For instance, in
the Carboniferous period we have only Cryptogams, Ferns, Lycopodiacae, and Equisetaceae. In
the middle geological ages, Conifers are introduced, the first flowering plant known on earth,
but in which the flower is very imperfect as compared with those of the higher groups. The
Coniferae were chiefly represented in the middle periods by the Cycadae, that peculiar group
of Coniferae, resembling Pines in their structure, but recalling the Ferns by their external
appearance. The stem is round and short, its surface being covered with scars similar to those
of the Ferns; while on the summit are ten or more leaves, fan-like and spreading when their
growth is complete, but rolled up at first, like Fern-leaves before they expand. Their fruit
resembles somewhat the Pine-Apple.

The mode of growth of the Coniferae recalls a feature of the Equisetaceae also, in the tufts
of little leaves which appear in whorls at regular intervals along the length of the stem in
proportion as it elongates, reminding one of the articulations on the stem of the Equisetaceae.
The first cone also appears on the summit of the stem, like the terminal cone in the Equisetaceae
and the Club-Mosses. Thus in certain types of the vegetable, as well as the animal creation
of earlier times, there was a continuation of features, afterwards divided and presented in
separate groups. In the present times, no one of these families of plants overlaps the others,
but each has a distinct individual character of its own.

At the close of the middle geological ages and the opening of the Tertiary periods, the Monocotyledons
become abundant, the first plants with flower and inclosed seed, though with no true floral
envelope: but not until the two last epochs of the Tertiary age do we find in any number the
Dicotyledonous plants, in which flower and fruit rise to their highest perfection. Thus there
has been a procession of plants from their earliest introduction to the present day, corresponding
to their botanical rank as they now exist, so that the series of gradation in the Vegetable
Kingdom, as well as the Animal Kingdom, is the same, whether founded upon succession in time
or upon comparative structural rank.

Some attempt has been made to reproduce under an artistic form the aspect of the world in the
different geological ages, and to present in single connected pictures the animal and vegetable
world of each period. Professor F. Unger, of Vienna, has prepared a collection of fourteen
such sketches, entitled, "Tableaux Physionomiques de la Végétation des Diverses Périodes du
Monde Primitif."

First, we have the Devonian shores, with spreading fields of sea-weed and numbers of the club-shaped
Algae of gigantic size. He has ventured, also, to represent a few trees, with scanty foliage;
but I believe their existence at so early a period to be very problematical.

Next comes the Carboniferous forest, with still pools of water lying between the Fern-trees,
which, much as they affect damp, swampy grounds, seem scarcely able to find foothold on the
dripping earth. Their trunks, as well as those of the Club-Moss trees which make the foreground
of the picture, stand up free from any branches for many feet above the ground, giving one
a glimpse between them into the dim recesses of this quiet, watery wood, where the silence
was unbroken by the song of birds or the hum of insects. We shall find, it is true, when we
give a glance at the animals of this time, that certain insects made their appearance with
the first terrestrial vegetation; but they were few in number and of a peculiar kind, such
as thrive now in low, wet lands.

Upon this follow a number of sketches introducing us to the middle periods, where the land
is higher and more extensive, covered chiefly with Pine forests, beneath which grows a thick
carpet of underbrush, consisting mostly of Grasses, Rushes, and Ferns. Here and there one of
the gigantic reptiles of the time may be seen sunning himself on the shore. One of these sketches
shows us such a creature hungrily inspecting a pool where Crinoids, with their long stems,
large, closely-coiled Chambered Shells, and Brachiopods, the Oysters and Clams of those days,
offer him a tempting repast. Here and there a Pterodactyl, the curious winged reptile of the
later middle periods, stretches its long neck from the water, and birds also begin to make
their appearance.

After these come the Tertiary periods: the Eocene first, where the landscape is already broken
up by hills and mountains, clothed with a varied vegetation of comparatively modern character.
Lily-pads are floating on the stream which makes the central part of the picture; large herds
of the Palaeotherium, the ancient Pachyderm, reconstructed with such accuracy by Cuvier, are
feeding along its banks; and a tall bird of the Heron or Pelican kind stands watching by the
water's edge. In the Miocene the vegetation looks still more familiar, though the Elephants
roaming about in regions of the Temperate Zone, and the huge Salamanders crawling out of the
water, remind us that we are still far removed from present times. Lastly, we have the ice
period, with the glaciers coming down to the borders of a river where large troops of Buffalo
are drinking, while on the shore some Bears are feasting on the remains of a huge carcass.

It is, however, with the Carboniferous age that we have to do at present, and I will not anticipate
the coming chapters of my story by dwelling now on the aspect of the later periods. To return,
then, to the period of the coal, it would seem that extensive freshets frequently overflowed
the marshes, and that even after many successive forests had sprung up and decayed upon their
soil, they were still subject to submergence by heavy floods. These freshets, at certain intervals,
are not difficult to understand, when we remember, that, beside the occasional influx of violent
rains, the earth was constantly undergoing changes of level, and that a subsidence or upheaval
in the neighborhood would disturb the equilibrium of the waters, causing them to overflow and
pour over the surface of the country, thus inundating the marshes anew.

That such was the case we can hardly doubt, after the facts revealed by recent investigations
of the Carboniferous deposits. In some of the deeper coal-beds there is a regular alternation
between layers of coal and layers of sand or clay; in certain localities, as many as ten, twelve,
and even fifteen coal-beds have been found alternating with as many deposits of clay or mud
or sand; and in some instances, where the trunks of the trees are hollow and have been left
standing erect, they are filled to the brim, or to the height of the next layer of deposits,
with the materials that have been swept over them. Upon this set of deposits comes a new bed
of coal with the remains of a new forest, and. above this again a layer of materials left by
a second freshet, and so on through a number of alternate strata. It is evident from these
facts that there have been a succession of forests, one above another, but that in the intervals
of their growth great floods have poured over the marshes, bringing with them all kinds of
loose materials, such as sand, pebbles, clay, mud, lime, etc., which, as the freshets subsided,
settled down over the coal, filling not only the spaces between such trees as remained standing,
but even the hollow trunks of the trees themselves.

Let us give a glance now at the animals which inhabited the waters of this period. In the Radiates
we shall not find great changes; the three classes are continued, though with new representatives,
and the Polyp Corals are increasing, while the Acalephian Corals, the Kugosa and Tabulata,
are diminishing. The Crinoids were still the most prominent representatives of the class of
Echinoderms, though some resembling the Ophiurans and Echinoids (Sea-Urchins) began to make
their appearance. The adjoining wood-cut represents a characteristic Crinoid of the Carboniferous
age.

Among the Mollusks, Brachiopods are still prominent, one new genus among them, the Productus,
being very remarkable on account of the manner in which one valve rises above the other. The
wood-cut below represents such a shell, looked at from the side of the flat valve, showing
the straight cut of the line of juncture between the valves and the rising curve of the opposite
one, which looks like a hooked beak when seen in profile.

Other species of Bivalves were also introduced, approaching more nearly our Clams and Oysters,
or, as they are called in scientific nomenclature, the Lamellibranchiates. They differ from
the Brachiopods chiefly in the higher character of their breathing-apparatus; for they have
free gills, instead of the net-work of vessels on the lining skin which serves as the organ
of respiration in the Brachiopods. We shall always find, that, in proportion as the functions
are distinct, and, as it were, individualized by having special organs appropriated to them,
animals rise in the scale of structure. The next class of Mollusks, the Gasteropods, or Univalves,
with spiral shells, were numerous, but, from their brittle character, are seldom found in a
good state of preservation.

The Chambered Shells, or the Cephalopods, represented chiefly in the earlier periods by the
straight Orthoceratites described in a previous article, are now curled in a close coil, and
the internal structure of their chambers has become more complicated. The subjoined wood-cut
represents a characteristic Chambered Shell of the Carboniferous age. Goniatites is the scientific
name of these later forms. If we had looked for them in the Devonian period, we should have
found many with looser coils than these, and some only slightly curved in the shape of a horn.
These, as well as the perfectly straight forms, still exist in the coal period, but the Goniatites
with close whorls are the more numerous and more characteristic.

The Articulates have gained their missing class since the close of the Devonian period, for
Insects have come in, and that division of the Animal Kingdom is therefore complete, and represented
by three classes, as it is at present. Of the Worms little can be said; their traces are found
as before, but they are very imperfectly preserved. There are still Trilobites, but they are
very few in number, and other groups of Crustacea have been added.

One of the most prominent of these new types bears a striking resemblance to the Horse-Shoe
Crab of present times.

I here present one of our common Horse-Shoe Crabs above one of these old-world Crustaceans,
and it will be seen, that, while the latter preserves some of the Trilobitic characters, such
as the marked articulations on the posterior part of the body and their division into three
lobes, yet in the prominence of its anterior shield, its more elongated form, and tapering
extremity, it resembles its modern representative. In some of them, however, there is no such
sharp point as is here figured, and the body terminates bluntly. There were a large number
of these Entomostraca in the Carboniferous period, a group which is chiefly represented among
living Crustacea by an exceedingly minute kind of Shrimp; but in those days they were of the
size of our Crabs and Lobsters, or even larger, and the Horse-Shoe Crab still maintains their
claim to a place among the larger and more conspicuous members of the class.

The Insects were few, and, as I have said above, of a kind which seeks a moist atmosphere,
or whose larvae live altogether in water. They are not usually well preserved, as will be seen
from the broken character of the one here represented, although the wood-cut is made from a
better specimen than is often found. We have, however, remains enough to establish unquestionably
the fact of their existence in the Carboniferous period, and to show us that the type of Articulates
was already represented by all its classes.

Not so with the Vertebrates. Fishes abound, but their class still consists, as before, of the
Ganoids, those fishes of the earlier periods built on the Gar-Pike and Sturgeon pattern, and
the Selachians, represented now by Sharks and Skates. In the Carboniferous period we begin
to find perfectly preserved specimens of the Ganoids, and the adjoining wood-cut represents
such a one. Of the old type of Selachians we have again one lingering representative in our
own times to give us the clue to its ancestors,--as the Gar-Pike explains the old Ganoids,
and the Chambered Nautilus helps us to understand the Chambered Shells of past times. The so-called
Port-Jackson Shark has features which were very characteristic of the Carboniferous Sharks
and are lost in the modern ones, so that it affords us a sort of link, as it were, and a measure
of comparison, between those now living and the more ancient forms. It is an interesting fact
that this only living representative of the Carboniferous Shark should be found in New Holland,
because it is there, in that isolated continent, left apart, as it would seem, for a special
purpose, that we find reproduced for us most fully the character of the Animal Kingdom in earlier
creations.

The first Mammalia in the world were pouched animals, having that extraordinary attachment
to the mother after birth which characterizes the Kangaroo. In New Holland almost all the Mammalia
are pouched, and have also the imperfect organization of the brain, as compared with the other
Mammalia, which accompanies that peculiar structural feature; and although the American Opossum
makes an exception to the rule, it is nevertheless true that this type of the Animal Kingdom
is now confined almost exclusively to New Holland. Whether this living picture of old creations
in modern garb was meant to be educational for man or not, it is at least well that we should
take advantage of it in learning all it has to teach us of the relations between the organic
world of past and present times.

There were a great variety of the Selachians in the Carboniferous period. The wood-cuts below
represent a tooth and a spine from one of the most characteristic groups, but I have not thought
it worth while to enumerate or to figure others here, for there are no perfect specimens, and
their structural differences consist chiefly in the various form and appearance of the teeth,
scales, and spines, and would be uninteresting to most of my readers. I would refer the more
scientific ones, who may care to know something of these details, to my investigations on Fossil
Fishes, published many years since under the title of "Recherches sur les Poissons Fossiles."

Although the Vertebrate division of the Animal Kingdom still waited for its higher classes,
yet it had received one important addition since the Silurian and Devonian periods. The Carboniferous
marshes were not without their reptilian inhabitants; but they were Reptiles of the lowest
class, the so-called Amphibians, those which are hatched from the egg in an immature condition,
undergoing metamorphosis after birth. They have no hard scales, and lay a large number of eggs.
I am unable to present any figure of one of these ancient Reptiles, as they are found in so
imperfect a state of preservation that no plates have been made from them. I would add in connection
with this subject that I believe a large number of animals found in the Carboniferous deposits,
and referred to the class of Reptiles, to be Fishes allied to Saurians.

Before leaving the Carboniferous period, let us see what territory the United States has conquered
from the Ocean during that time. All its central portion, from Canada to Alabama, and from
Western Iowa, Missouri, and Arkansas to Eastern Virginia, was raised above the water. But as
yet the Alleghanies and the Rocky Mountains did not exist; a great gulf ran up to the mouth
of the Ohio, for the Mississippi had not yet accumulated the soil for the fertile valley through
which it was to take its southern course; the Coral-Builders had still their work to do in
constructing the peninsula of Florida; and, indeed, all the borders of the continent of North
America, as well as a large part of its Western territory, were still to be added. But although
its central portion held its ground and was never submerged again, yet the continent was slowly
subsiding during the middle geological periods, so that, instead of enlarging gradually by
the increase of deposits, its limits remained much the same.

This accounts for the very scanty traces to be found in America of the secondary deposits;
for the Permian, Triassic, and Jurassic beds, instead of being raised to form successive shores,
along which their deposits could be accumulated in regular sequence, as had been the case with
the Azoic, Silurian, and Devonian deposits in the northern part of the United States, were
constantly sinking, so that the Triassic settled above the Permian, the Jurassic above the
Triassic, and so on, each set of strata thus covering over and concealing the preceding one.
Though we find the stratified rocks of these periods cropping out here and there, where some
violent disturbance or the abrading action of water has torn asunder or worn away the overlying
strata, yet we never find them consecutively over any extensive region; and it is not till
the Cretaceous and earlier Tertiary periods that we find again a regular succession of deposits
around the shores of the continent, marking its present outlines. It is, then, in Europe, where
the sequence of their beds is most complete, that we must seek to decipher the history of the
middle geological ages; and therefore, when I meet my readers again, it will be in the Old
World of civilization, though more recent in its physical features than the one we leave.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COUNTESS.

       *       *       *       *       *

GALA-DAYS. I have no reason to suppose that the outrage was intentional; but if I were absolute
monarch of all I survey, there is one house in one street in Boston which I would have razed
to the ground; and tobacco I would banish forever from the haunts of civilization. "We have
whiffle-trees."

I could have boxed his ears. New every springtime, fresh every summer, the earth comes forth
as a bride adorned for her husband.

GIVE.

  The fire of Freedom burns,
    March to her altar now:
  Bear on the sacred urns
    Where all her sons must bow.

  Woman of nerve and thought,
    Bring in the urn your power!
  By you is manhood taught
    To meet this supreme hour.

  Come with your sunlit life,
    Maiden of gentle eye!
  Bring to the gloom of strife
    Light by which heroes die.

  Give, rich men, proud and free,
    Your children's costliest gem!
  For Liberty shall be
    Your heritage to them.

  O friend, with heavy urn,
    What offering bear you on?
  The figure did not turn;
    I heard a voice, "My son."

  The fire of Freedom burns,
    Her flame shall reach the heaven:
  Heap up our sacred urns,
    Though life for life be given!

ONLY AN IRISH GIRL!

"Oh, it's only an Irish girl!"

I flamed into a wrath far too intense for restraint. My whole soul rose up and cried out against
the Deacon's wife. I answered,--

"True. A small thing! But are lies and murder small things, Mrs. Adams? Murderers, and whosoever
loveth and maketh a lie, are to be left outside of the heavenly city. And, Mrs. Adams, suppose
it should appear that a woman of high respectability, moving in the best society, and most
excellent housekeeper, has both those two tickets for hell? Do you remember the others that
make up that horrible company in the last chapter of Revelation? Mrs. Adams, the girl is DEAD!"

The Deacon's wife's hard face had blazed instantly into passionate scarlet. But I cared not
for her, nor for man nor woman. For the words said themselves, and thrilled and sounded fearful
to me also; they hurt me; they burnt from my tongue as melted iron might; and, scarcely knowing
it, I rose up and emphasized with my forefinger. And her face, at those last four words, turned
stony and whity-gray, like a corpse. I thought she would die. Oh, it was awful to think so,
and to feel that she deserved it! For I did. I do now. For, reason as I will, I cannot help
feeling as if a tinge of the poor helpless child's blood was upon my own garments. I do well
to be angry. It is not that I desire any personal revenge. But I have a feeling,--not pleasure,
it is almost all pity and pain,--but yet a feeling that sudden death or lingering death would
be small satisfaction of justice upon her for what she rendered to another.

Her strong, hard, cruel nature fought tigerishly up again from the horrible blow of my news.
She was frightened almost to swooning at the thing that I told and my denunciation, and the
deep answering stab of her own conscience. But her angry iron will rallied with an effort which
must have been an agony; her face became human again, and, looking straight and defiantly at
me, she said, yet with difficulty,

"Ah! I'll see if my husband'll hev sech things said to me! That's all!"

And she turned and went straightway out of my house, erect and steady as ever.

It may seem a trifling story, and its lesson a trifling one. But it is not so,--neither trifling
nor needless.

It is a rare thing, indeed, for a woman in this America to long and love to have children.
The only two women whom I know in this large town who do are Mrs. O'Reilly, the mother of poor
Bridget, and--one more.

Poor old Mrs. O'Reilly! She came to me this morning, and sat in my kitchen, and cried so bitterly,
and talked in her strong Corkonian brogue, and rocked herself backwards and forwards, and shook
abroad the great lambent banners of her cap-border,--a grotesque old woman, but sacred in her
tender motherhood and her great grief. Her first coming was to peddle blackberries in the summer.
I asked her if she picked them herself.

"Och thin and shure I've the childher to do that saam," said she. And what wonderful music
must the voice of her youth have been! It was deep of intonation and heartfelt,--rich and smooth
and thrilling yet, after fifty years of poverty and toil. "And id's enough of thim that's in
id!" she added, with a curious air of satisfaction and reflectiveness.

"How many children have you?" I inquired.

She laughed and blushed, old woman though she was; and pride and deep delight and love shone
in her large, clear, gray eyes.

"I've fourteen darlins, thank God for ivery wan of thim! And it's a purrty parthy they are!"

"Fourteen!" I exclaimed,--"how lovely!" I stopped short and blushed. My heart had spoken. "But
how "--I stopped again.

The old blackberry-woman answered me with tears and smiles. What a deep, rich, loving heart
was covered out of sight in her squalid life! It makes me proud that I felt my heart and my
love in some measure like hers; and she saw it, too.

"An' it's yersilf, Ma'm, that has the mother's own heart in yez, to be sure! An' I can see
it in your eyes, Ma'm! But it's the thruth it's mighty scarce intirely! I do be seein' the
ladies that's not glad at all for the dear childher that's sint 'em, and sure it's sthrange,
Ma'm! Indade, it was with the joy I did be cryin' over ivery wan o' me babies; and I could
aisy laugh at the pain, Ma'm! And sure now it's cryin' I am betimes because I'll have no more!"

The dear, beautiful, dirty old woman! I cried and laughed with her, and I bought ten times
as many blackberries as I wanted; and Mrs. O'Reilly and I were fast friends.

She and hers, her "ould man," her sons and her daughters, were thenceforth our ready and devoted
retainers, dexterous and efficient in all manner of service, generous in acknowledging any
return that we could make them; respectful and self-respectful; true men and women in their
place, not unfit for a higher, and showing the same by their demeanor in a low one.

They came in and went out among us for a long time, in casual employments, until, with elaborate
prefaces and doubtful apologetic circumlocutions, shyly and hesitatingly, Mrs. O'Reilly managed
to prefer her petition that her youngest girl, Bridget, by name,--there were a few junior boys,--might
be taken into my family as a servant. I asked the old woman a few questions about her daughter's
experiences and attainments in the household graces and economies; could not remember her;
thought I had seen all the "childher"; found that she had been living with Mrs. Deacon Adams,
and had not been at my house. It was only for form's sake that I catechized; Bridget came,
of course.

She was such a maiden as her mother must have been, one of Nature's own ladies, but more refined
in type, texture, and form, as the American atmosphere and food and life always refine the
children of European stock,--slenderer, more delicate, finer of complexion, and with a soft,
exquisite sweetness of voice, more thrilling than her mother's, larger and more robust heartfeltness
of tone,--and with the same, but shyer ways, and swift blushes and smiles. In one thing she
differed: she was a silent, reticent girl: her tears were not so quick as her mother's, nor
her words; she hid her thoughts. She had learned it of us secretive Americans, or had inherited
it of her father, a silent, though cheery man.

Her glossy wealth of dark-brown hair, her great brown eyes, long eyelashes, sensitive, delicately
cut, mobile red lips, oval face, beautifully formed arms and hands, and lithe, graceful, lady-like
movements, were a sweet household picture, sunshiny with unfailing good-will, and of a dexterous
neat-handedness very rare in her people. My husband was looking at her one day, and as she
tripped away on some errand he observed,--

"She is a graceful little saint. All her attitudes are beatitudes."

Bridget was pure and devout enough for the compliment; and I had not been married so long but
that I could excuse the evidence of his observation of another, for the sake of the neatness
of his phrase. I should have thought the unconscious child incongruously lovely amongst brooms
and dust-pans, pots and kettles, suds and slops and dishwater, had I not been about as much
concerned among them myself.

Bridget had been with me only a day or two, when a friend and fellow-matron, in the course
of an afternoon call, apprised me that there were reports that Bridget O'Reilly was a thief,--in
fact, that she had been turned away by Mrs. Adams for that very offence, which she told me
"out of kindness, and with no desire to injure the girl; but there is so much wickedness among
these Irish!" She had heard this tale, through only one person, from Mrs. Adams herself.

This troubled me; yet I should have quickly forgotten it. I met the same story in several other
directions within a few days; and now it troubled me more. Women are suspicious creatures.
I don't like to confess it, but it is true. Besides, servants do sometimes steal. And little
foreign blood of the oppressed nationalities has truth in it, or honesty. Why should it? Why
should the subjugated Irish, any more than the Southern slaves, beaten down for centuries by
brutal strength, seeking to exterminate their religion and their speech, to terrify them out
of intelligence and independence, to crush them into permanent poverty and ignorance,--why
should they tell the truth or respect property? Falsehood and theft are that cunning which
is the natural and necessary weapon of weakness. Their falsehood is their resistance, in the
only form that weakness can use, evasion instead of force. Their theft is the taking of what
is instinctively felt to be due; their gratification of an instinct after justice; done secretly
because they have not the strength to demand openly. Such things are unnecessary in America,
no doubt. But habits survive emigration. They are to be deplored, charitably and hopefully
and tenderly cured as diseases, not attacked and furiously struck and thrust at as wild beasts.
Thus it might be with Bridget, notwithstanding her great, clear, innocent eyes, and open, honest
ways. If she had grown up to think such doings harmless, she would have no conscience about
it. Conscience is very pliant to education. It troubles no man for what he is trained to do.

So I felt these stories. I could not find it in my heart to talk to poor Bridget about it.
I could not tell her large-hearted old mother. This reluctance was entirely involuntary, an
instinct. I wish I had felt it more clearly and obeyed it altogether! There is some fatal cloud
of human circumstance that covers up from our sight our just instinctive perceptions,--makes
us drive them out before the mechanical conclusions of mere reason; and when our reason, our
special human pride, has failed us, we say in our sorrow, I see now; if I had only trusted
my first impulse!--What is this cloud? Is it original sin? I asked my husband. He was writing
his sermon. He stopped and told me with serious interest,--"This cloud is that original or
inbred sin which we receive from Adam; obscuring and vitiating the free exercise of the originally
perfect faculties; wilting them down, as it were, from a high native assimilation to the operative
methods of the Divine Mind, to the painful, creeping, mechanical procedures of the comparing
and judging reason. And this lost power is to be restored, we may expect, by the regenerating
force of conversion."

I know I've got this right; because, after Henry had thanked me for my question, he said I
was a good preaching-stock,--that the inquiry "joggled up" his mind, and suggested just what
fayed in with his sermon; and afterwards I heard him preach it; and now I have copied it out
of his manuscript, and have it all correct and satisfactory. What will he do to me, if he should
see this in print? But I can't help it. And what is more, I don't believe his theological stuff.
If it were true, there would not so many good people be such geese.

But whatever this cloud is, it now blinded and misguided me. I quietly, very quietly, put away
some little moneys that lay about,--locked up nearly all my small stock of silver and my scanty
jewelry,--locked my bureau-drawers,--counted unobtrusively the weekly proceeds of the washing,--and
was extremely watchful against the least alteration of my manner towards my poor pretty maid.

It might have been a week after this, when my husband said one morning that Bridget's eyes
were heavy, and she had moved with a start several times, as though she were half-asleep. Now
that he spoke, I saw it, and wondered that I had not seen it before; but I think some men notice
things more quickly than women. I asked the child if she were well.

"Yes, Ma'am," she said, spiritlessly, "but my head aches."

I observed her; and she dragged herself about with difficulty, and was painfully slow about
her dishes. At tea-time I made her lie down in my little back parlor and got the meal myself,
and made her a nice cup of tea. She slept a little, but grew flushed. Next morning she was
not fit to get up, but insisted that she was, and would not remain in bed. But she ate nothing,--indeed,
for a day or two she had not eaten,--and after breakfast she grew faint, and then more flushed
than ever; seemed likely to have a hard run of fever; and I sent for my doctor,--a homoeopath.

He came, saw, queried, and prescribed. Doctor-like, he evaded my inquiry what was the matter,
so that I saw it was a serious case. On my intimating as much, he said, with sudden decision,--

"I'll tell you what, Madam. She may be better by night. If not, you'd better send for Bagford.
He might do better for her than I."

I was extremely surprised, for Bagford is a vigorous allopath of the old school, drastic, bloody,--and
an uncompromising enemy of "that quack," as he called my grave young friend. I said as much.
Doctor Nash smiled.

"Oh, I don't mind it, so long as the patients come to me. I can very well afford to send him
one now and then. The fact is, the Irish must feel their medicine. It's quite often that a
raking dose will cure 'em, not because it's the right thing, but because it takes their imagination
with it. The Irish imagination goes with Bagford and against me; and the wrong medicine with
the imagination is better than the right one against it. I care more about curing this child
than I do about him. Besides,"--and he grew grave,--"it may be no great favor to him."

I obliged him to tell me that he feared the attack would develop into brain-fever; and he said
something was on the girl's mind. As soon as he was gone, I ran up to poor Bridget, whose sweet
face and great brown eyes were kindled, in her increasing fever, into a hot, fearful beauty;
and now I could see a steady, mournful, pained look contracting her mouth and lifting the delicate
lines of her eyebrows. Poor little girl! I felt the same deep yearning sorrow which we have
at the sufferings of a little child, who seems to look in scared wonder at us, as if to ask,
What is this? and Why do you not help? When a child suffers, we feel a sense of injustice done.
Bridget's lips were dry. Her skin was so hot, her whole frame so restless! And the silent misery
of her eyes ate into my very heart. I smoothed her pillow and bathed her head, and would fain
have comforted her, as if she had been my own little sister. But I could plainly see that my
help was not welcome. When, however, I had done all that I could for her, I quietly told her
that she was sick, and that I wanted to have her get well,--that I saw something was troubling
her, and she must tell me what it was. I don't think the silent, enduring thing would have
spoken even then, if she had not seen that I was crying. Her own tears came, too; and she briefly
said,--

"You all think I'm a thief."

I assured her most earnestly to the contrary.

She turned her restless head over towards me again, and her great eyes, all glittering with
fever and pain, searched solemnly into mine; and she replied,--

"You all think I'm a thief. Yis, I saw you had locked up the money and the silver. I saw you
count the clane clothes that was washed in the house. Wouldn't I be after seein' it? And they
says so in the town."

It went to my heart to have done those things. All that I could say was utterly in vain. She
evidently felt nothing of it to be true. She had received a deep and cruel hurt; and the poor,
wild, half-civilized, shy, silent soul had not wherewith to reason on it. She only endured,
and held her peace, and let the fire burn; and her sensitive nerves had allowed pain of mind
to become severe physical disease. My words she scarcely heard; my tears were to her only sympathy.
She knew what she had seen. Besides, her disease increased upon her. Almost from minute to
minute she grew more restless, and her increasing inattention to what I said frightened as
well as hurt me. The medicines of Dr. Nash were useless. Before noon I sent for Dr. Bagford,
who said it was decidedly brain-fever,--that she must be leeched, and have ice at her head,
and so forth.

Ah, it was useless. She grew worse and worse; passed through one or two long terrible days
of frantic misery, crying and protesting against false accusations with a lamenting voice that
made us all cry, too; then lay long in a stupid state, until the doctor said that now it would
be better for her to die, because, after such an attack, a brain so sensitive would be disorganized,--she
would be an idiot.

Her poor mother came and helped us wait on her. But neither care nor medicine availed. Bridget
died; and the funeral was from our house. I was surprised by the lofty demeanor of Father MacMullen,
the Irish priest, the first I had ever met: a tall, gaunt, bony, black-haired, hollow-eyed
man, of inscrutable and guarded demeanor, who received with absolute haughtiness the courtesies
of my husband and the reverences of his own flock. A few of his expressions might indicate
a consciousness that we had endeavored to deal kindly with poor little Bridget. But he did
not think so; or at least we know that he has so handled the matter that we meet ill feeling
on account of it.

The griefs for any such misfortune were, however, obscure and shallow in comparison with my
sorrow for the untimely quenching of Bridget's young life, and my sympathy with her poor old
mother. When I reasoned about the affair, I could see that I had done nothing which would not
be commended by careful housekeepers. I could see it, but, in spite of me, I could not feel
it. I was tormented by vain wishes that I had done otherwise. I could not help feeling as if
her people charged me with her blood,--as if I had been in some sense aiding in her death.
Nor do I even now escape obscure returns of the same inexpressibly sad pain.

The garnishing of sepulchres is an employment which by no means went out with the Scribes and
Pharisees. Under the circumstances, the death of my pretty young maid, although she was only
an Irish girl, produced a deep impression in the village. Very soon, now that it could do no
good, it was generally agreed that the imputations against her were wholly unfounded. It was
pretty distinctly whispered that they had arisen out of things said by Mrs. Deacon Adams, in
her wrath, because Bridget had left her service to enter mine; and I now ascertained that this
Mrs. Adams was a woman of bitter tongue, and enduring, hot, and unscrupulous in anger and in
revengefulness. I have inquired sufficiently; I know it is true. The vulgar malice of a hard
woman has murdered a fair and good maiden with the invisible arrows of her wicked words.

But she begins already to be punished, coarse cast-iron as she is. People do not exactly like
to talk with her. She is growing thin. She has been ill,--a thing, I am told, never dreamed
of before. Of course she reported to her husband the reproaches with which I had surprised
her on the very day of Bridget's death. She had called in by chance, and had not even heard
of her illness; had herself begun to retail to me the kind of talk with which she had poisoned
the village, not knowing that her evil work was finished; and it was the scornful carelessness
of her reply to my first reproof that stung me to answer her so bitterly. It was two weeks
before good, white-haired, old Deacon Adams came to the house of his pastor. His face looked
careworn enough. He stayed long in the study with my husband, and went away sadly. I happened
to pass through our little hall just as the Deacon opened the study-door to depart; and I caught
his last words, very sorrowful in tone,--

"She might git well, ef she could stop dreamin' on't, and git the weight off 'm her mind. But
words that's once spoken can't be called back as you call the cows home at night."

SHALL WE COMPROMISE?

In that period of remote antiquity when all birds of the air and beasts of the field were able
to talk, it befell that a certain shepherd suffered many losses through the constant depredations
of a wolf. Fearing at length that his means of subsistence would be quite taken away, he devised
a powerful trap for the creature, and set it with wonderful cunning. He could hardly sleep
that night for thinking of the matter, and early next morning took a stout club in his hand,
and set forth to learn of his success; when, lo! on drawing near the spot, there he saw the
wolf, sure enough, a huge savage, fast held in the trap.

"Ah," cried he, with triumph, "now I have got you!"

The wolf held his peace until the other was quite near, and then in a tone of the severest
moral rebuke, and with a voice that was made quite low and grave with its weight of judicial
reprehension, said,--

"Is it you, then? Can it be one wearing the form of a man, who has laid this wicked plot against
the peace, nay, as I infer from that club, against the very life, of an innocent creature?
Behold what I suffer, and how unjustly!--I, of all animals, whose life,--the sad state I am
now in constrains me against modesty to say it,--whose life is notoriously a pattern of all
the virtues;--I, too, ungrateful biped, who have watched your flock through so many sleepless
nights, lest some ill-disposed dog might do harm to the helpless sheep and lambs!"

The shepherd, one of the simplest souls that ever lived, was utterly confounded by this reproof,
and hung his head with shame, unable, for a season, to utter a word in his own defence. At
length he managed to stammer,--

"I pray your pardon, brother, but--but in truth I have lost a great many lambs lately, and
began to think my little ones at home would starve."

"How harder than stone is the heart of man!" murmured the wolf, as if to himself.

Then, raising his voice, he went on to say,--

"I despair of reaching your conscience; nevertheless I will speak as if I had hope. You never
paid me anything for protecting your flock; it was on my part a pure labor of love; and yet,
because I cannot quite succeed in guarding it against all the bad dogs that are about, you
would take my life!"

And the creature put on such a look of meek suffering innocence that the shepherd was touched
to the very heart, and felt more guilty and abashed than ever. He therefore said at once,--

"Brother, I fear that I have done you wrong; and if you will swear to mind your own affairs,
and not prey upon my flock, I will at once set you free."

"My character ought to be a sufficient guaranty," answered the quadruped, with much dignity;
"but I submit, since I must, to your unjust suspicions, and promise as you require."

So, lifting up his paw, he swore solemnly, by all the gods that wolves worship, to keep his
pledge. Thereupon the other set him free, with many apologies and professions of confidence
and friendship. Only a few days, however, had passed before the shepherd, happening to mount
a knoll, saw at a little distance the self-same wolf eagerly devouring the warm remains of a lamb.

"Villain! villain!" he shouted, in great wrath, "is this the way you keep your oath? Did not
you swear to mind your own business?"

"I am minding it," said the wolf, with a grin; "it is my business to eat lambs; it should be
yours not to believe in wolves' promises."

So saying, he seized upon the last fragment of the Iamb, and ran away as fast as his legs would
carry him.

Moral.--Shepherds who make compromises with wolves sell their mutton at an exceedingly cheap
market.

Now just such short-witted shepherds are we, the people of these free American States, invited
by numbers of citizens to become. Just such, do I say? A thousand times more silly than such.
Our national wolf meets us with jaws that drip blood and eyes that glare hunger for more. Instead
of professing sanctity and innocence, it only howls immitigable hate and steadfast resolution
to devour. "Give me," it howls, "half the pasture and flock for my own, with, of course, a
supervision over the rest, and a child or two when I am dainty; and I will be content,--until
I want more!"

In speaking of our "national wolf," we are using no mere rhetoric, but are, in truth, getting
at the very heart of the matter. This war, in its final relations to human history, is an encounter
between opposing tendencies in man,--between the beast-of-prey that is in him and is always
seeking brute domination, on the one hand, and the rational and moral elements of manhood,
which ever urge toward the lawful supremacy, on the other. This is a conflict as old as the
world, and perhaps one that, in some shape, will continue while the world lasts; and I have
tried in vain to think of a single recorded instance wherein the issue was more simple, or
the collision more direct, than in our own country to-day.

That principle in nature which makes the tiger tiger passes obviously into man in virtue of
the fact that he is on one side, on the side of body and temperament, cousin to the tiger,
as comparative anatomy shows. This presence in man of a tiger-principle does not occur by a
mistake, for it is an admirable fuel or fire, an admirable generator of force, which the higher
powers may first master and then use. But at first it assumes place in man wholly untamed and
seemingly tameless, indisposed for aught but sovereignty. Of course, having place in man, it
passes, and in the same crude state, into society. And thus it happens, that, when the unconquerable
affinities of men bring them together, this principle arises in its brutal might, and strives
to make itself central and supreme.

But what is highest in man has its own inevitable urgency, as well as what is lowest. It can
never be left out of the account. Gravitation is powerful and perpetual; but the pine pushes
up in opposition to it nevertheless. The forces of the inorganic realm strive with might to
keep their own; but organic life will exist on the planet in their despite, and will conquer
from the earth what material it needs. And, in like manner, no sooner do men aggregate than
there begin to play back and forth between them ideal or ascending forces, mediations of reason,
conscience, soul; and the ever growing interpretations of these appear as courtesies, laws,
moralities, worships,--as all the noble communities which constitute a high social state. In
fine, there is that in man which seeks perpetually, for it seeks necessarily, to give the position
of centrality in society to the ideal principle of justice and to the great charities of the
human soul.

Hence a contest. Two antagonistic principles leap forth from the bosom of man, so soon as men
come together, seeking severally to establish the law of social relationship. One of these
is predaceous, brutal; the other ideal, humane. One says, "Might makes Right"; the other, "Might
should serve Right." One looks upon mankind at large as a harvest to be gathered for the behoof
of a few, who are confederate only for that purpose, even as wolves hunt in packs; the other
regards humanity as a growth to be fostered for its own sake and worth, and affirms that superiority
of strength is given for service, not for spoil. One makes the ego supreme; the other makes
rational right supreme. One seeks private gratification at any expense to higher values, even
as the tiger would, were it possible, draw and drink the blood of the universe as soon as the
blood of a cow; the other establishes an ideal estimate of values, and places private gratification
low on the scale. But the deepest difference between them, the root of separation, remains
to be stated. It is the opposite climate they have of man in the pure simplicity of his being.
The predaceous principle says,--"Man is in and of himself valueless; he attains value only
by position, by subduing the will of others to his own; and in subjecting others he destroys
nothing of worth, since those who are weak enough to fall are by that very fact proved to be
worthless." The humane or socializing principle, on the contrary, says,--"Manhood is value;
the essence of all value is found in the individual soul; and therefore the final use of the
world, of society, of action, of all that man does and of all that surrounds him, is to develop
intelligence, to bring forth the mind and soul into power,--in fine, to realize in each the
spiritual possibilities of man."

True socialization now exists only as this nobler principle is victorious. It exists only in
proportion as force is lent to ideal relations, relations prescribed by reason, conscience,
and reverence for the being of man,--only in proportion, therefore, as the total force of the
state kneels before each individual soul, and, without foolish intermeddlings, or confusions
of order, proffers protection, service, succor. Here is a socialization flowing, self-poised,
fertilizing; it is full of gracious invitation to all, yet regulates all; it makes liberty
by making law; it produces and distributes privilege. Here there is not only community, that
is, the unity of many in the enjoyment of common privilege, but there is more, there is positive
fructification, there is a wide, manifold, infinitely precious evocation of intelligence, of
moral power, and of all spiritual worth.

As, on the contrary, the baser principle triumphs, there is no genuine socialization, but only
a brute aggregation of subjection beneath and a brute dominance of egotism above. Society is
mocked and travestied, not established, in proportion as force is lent to egotism. If anywhere
the power which we call state set its heel on an innocent soul,--if anywhere it suppress, instead
of uniting intelligence,--if anywhere it deny, though only to one individual, the privilege
of becoming human,--to such an extent it wars against society and civilization, to such extent
sets its face against the divine uses of the world.

Now the contest between these opposing principles is that which is raging in our country this
day. Of course, any broad territorial representation of this must be of a very mixed quality.
Our best civilizations are badly mottled with stains of barbarism. In no state or city can
egotism, either of the hot-blooded or cold-blooded kind,--and the latter is far the more virulent,--be
far to seek. On the other hand, no social system, thank God, can quite reverse the better instincts
of humanity; and it may be freely granted that even American slavery shades off, here and there,
into quite tender modifications. Yet not in all the world could there possibly be found an
antagonism so deep and intense as exists here. The Old World seems to have thrown upon the
shores of the New its utmost extremes, its Oriental barbarisms and its orients and auroras
of hope and belief; so that here coexist what Asia was three thousand years ago, and what Europe
may be one thousand years hence. Let us consider the actual status.

In certain localities of Southern Africa there is a remarkable fly, the Tsetse fly. In the
ordinary course of satisfying its hunger, this insect punctures the skin of a horse, and the
animal dies in consequence. A fly makes a lunch, and a horse's life pays the price of the meal.
This has ever seemed to me to represent the beast-of-prey principle in Nature more vigorously
than any other fact. But in that system whose fangs are now red with the blood of our brave
there is an expression of this principle not less enormous. It is the very Tsetse fly of civilization.
That a small minority of Southern men may make money without earning it,--that a few thousand
individuals may monopolize the cotton-market of the world,--what a suppression and destruction
of intelligence it perpetrates I what consuming of spiritual possibilities! what mental wreck
and waste! Whites, too, suffer equally with blacks. Less oppressed, they are perhaps even more
demoralized. No parallel example does the earth exhibit of the sacrifice of transcendent values
for pitiful ends.

In attempting to destroy free government and rational socialization in America, this system
is treading no new road, it is only proceeding on the old. Its central law is that of destroying
any value, however great, for the sake of any gratification, however small. Accustomed to battening
on the hopes of humanity,--accustomed to taking stock in human degradation, and declaring dividends
upon enforced ignorance and crime,--existing only while every canon of the common law is annulled,
and every precept of morals and civilization set at nought,--could it be expected to pause
just when, or rather just because, it had apparently found the richest possible prey? Could
it be expected to withhold its fang for no other reason than that its fang was allured by a
more opulent artery than ever before? The simple truth is--and he knows nothing about this
controversy who fails to perceive such truth--that the system whose hands are now armed against
us has always borne these arms in its heart; that the fang which is now bared has hitherto
been only concealed, not wanting; that the tree which is to-day in bloody blossom is the same
tree it ever was, and carried these blossoms in its sap long ere spreading them upon its boughs.

To this predaceous system what do we oppose? We oppose a socialization that has features,--I
will say no more,--has features of generous breadth and promise, that are the best fruition
of many countries and centuries. Faults and drawbacks it has enough and to spare; conspicuous
among which may be named the vulgar and disgusting "negrophobia,"--a mark of under-breeding
which one hopes may not disgrace us always. But let us be carried away by no mania for self-criticism.
Two claims for ourselves may be made. First, a higher grade of laws nowhere exists with a less
amount of coercive application,--exists, that is, by the rational and constant choice of the
whole people. Secondly, it may be questioned whether anywhere in the world the development
of intelligence and moral force in the whole people is to a greater extent a national aim.
But abandoning all comparison with other peoples, this we may say with no doubtful voice: We
stand for the best ideas of the Old World in the New; we stand for orderly-freedom and true
socialization in America; we stand for these, and with us these must here stand or fall.

Now, of course, we are not about to become the offscouring of the earth by yielding these up
to destruction. Of course, we shall not convert ourselves into a nation of Iscariots, and give
over civilization to the bowie-knife, with the mere hope of so making money out of Southern
trade,--which we should not do,--and with the certainty of a gibbet in history, to mention
no greater penalty.

But refusing this perfidy, could we have avoided this war? No; for it was simply our refusal
of such perfidy which, so far as we are concerned, brought the war on. The South, having ever
since the Mexican War stood with its sword half out of the scabbard, perpetually threatening
to give its edge,--having made it the chief problem of our politics, by what gift or concession
to purchase exemption from that dreaded blade,--at last reached its ultimate demand. "Will
you," it said to the North, "abdicate the privileges of equal citizenship? Will you give up
this continent, territory, Free States and all, to our predaceous, blood-eating system? Will
you sell into slavery the elective franchise itself? Will you sell the elective franchise itself
into slavery, and take for pay barely the poltroon's price, that of being scornfully spared
by the sword we stand ready to draw?" The North excused itself politely. In the softest voice,
but with a soft-voicedness that did not wholly conceal an iron thread of resolution, it declined
to comply with that most modest demand. Then the sword came out and struck at our life. "Was
it matter of choice with us whether we would fight? Not unless it were also matter of choice
whether we would become the very sweepings and blemish of creation.

"But we might have permitted secession." No, we could not. It was clearly impracticable. "But
why not?" Because that would have been to surrender the whole under the guise of giving up
half. Such a concession could have meant to the people of the rebellious States, and, in the
existing state of national belief, could have meant to our very selves, nothing other than
this:--"We submit; do what you will; we are shopkeepers and cowards; we must have your trade;
and besides, though expert in the use of yardsticks, we have not the nerve for handling guns."
From that moment we should have lost all authority on this continent, and all respect on the other.

The English papers have blamed us for fighting; but had we failed to fight, not one of these
censuring mouths but would have hissed at us like an adder with contempt Nay, we ourselves
should, as it were, soon have lost the musical speech and high carriage of men, and fallen
to a proneness and a hissing, degraded in our own eyes even more than in those of our neighbors.
Of course, from this state we should have risen; but it would have been to see the redness
of war on our own fields and its flames wrapping our own households. We should have risen,
but through a contest to which this war, gigantic though it be, is but a quarrel of school-boys.

By sheer necessity we began to fight; by the same we must fight It out. Compromise is, in the
nature of the case, impossible. It can mean only surrender. Had there been an inch more of
ground for us to yield without total submission, the war would have been, for the present,
staved off. We turned to bay only when driven back to the vital principle of our polity and
the vital facts of our socialization.

Politically, what was the immediate grievance of the South? Simply that Northern freemen went
to the polls as freemen; simply that they there expressed, under constitutional forms, their
lawful preference. How can we compromise here, even to the breadth of a hair? How compromise
without stipulating that all Northern electors shall henceforth go to the polls in charge of
an armed police, and there deposit such ballot as the slave-masters of the Secession States
shall direct?

Again, in our social state what is it that gives umbrage to our antagonists? They have answered
the question for us; they have stated it repeatedly in the plainest English. It is simply the
fact that we are free States; that we have, and honor, free labor; that we have schools for
the people; that we teach the duty of each to all and of all to each; that we respect the human
principle, the spiritual possibility, in man; in fine, that ours is a human socialization,
whose fundamental principles are the venerableness of man's nature and the superiority of reason
and right to any individual will. So far as we are base bargainers and unbelievers, they can
tolerate us, even though they despise; just where our praise begins, begin their detestation
and animosity.

It is, by the pointed confession of Southern spokesmen, what we are, rather than what we have
done, which makes them Secessionists; and any man of sense might, indeed must, see this fact,
were the confession withheld. In action we have conformed to Southern wishes, as if conformity
could not be in excess. We have conformed to an extent that--to mention nothing of more importance--had
nearly ruined us in the estimation of mankind. One chief reason, indeed, why the sympathy of
Europe did not immediately go with us was that a disgust toward us had been created by the
football passivity, as it seemed abroad, with which we had submitted to be kicked to and fro.
The rebellion was deemed to be on our side, not on theirs. We, born servitors and underlings,
it was thought, had forgotten our proper places,--nay, had presumed to strike back, when our
masters chastised us. Of course, we should soon be whipped to our knees again. And when we
were again submissive and abject, Europe must so have demeaned itself as still to be on good
terms with the conquerors. As for us, our final opinion of their demeanor, so they deemed,
mattered very little. The ill opinion of the servants can be borne; but one must needs be on
friendly terms with the master of the house. The conduct of Europe toward us at the outbreak
of this war is to be thus explained, more than in any other way. According to European understanding,
we had before written ourselves down menials; therefore, on rising to the attitude of men,
we were scorned as upstarts.

The world has now discovered that there was less cowardice and more comity in this yielding
than had been supposed. Yet in candor one must confess that it was barely not carried to a
fatal extent. One step more in that direction, and we had gone over the brink and into the
abyss. Only when the last test arrived, and we must decide once and forever whether we would
be the champions or the apostates of civilization, did we show to the foe not the dastard back,
but the dauntless front. And the proposal to "compromise" is simply and exactly a proposal
to us to reverse that decision.

Again, we can propose no compromise, such as would stay the war, without confessing that there
was no occasion for beginning it. And if, indeed, we began it without occasion, without an
occasion absolutely imperative, then does the whole mountain--weight of its guilt lie on our
hearts. Then in every man that has fallen on either side we are assassins. The proposal to
bring back the seceded States by submission to their demands is neither more nor less than
a proposal to write "Murderer" on the brow of every soldier in our armies, and "Twice Murderer"
over the grave of every one of our slain. If such submission be due now, not less was it due
before the war began. To say that it was then due, and then withheld, is, I repeat, merely
to brand with the blackness of assassination the whole patriotic service of the United States,
both civil and military, for the last two years.

If, now, such be, in very deed, our guilt, let us lose no moment in confessing the fact,--nor
afterwards lose a moment in creeping to the gallows, that must, in that case, be hungering
for us. But if no such guilt be ours, then why should not our courage be as good as our cause?
If not only by the warrant, but by the imperative bidding of Heaven, we have taken up arms,
then why should we not, as under the banner of Heaven, bear them to the end?

In this course, no real failure can await us. Obeying the necessity which is laid upon us,
and simply conducting ourselves as men of humanity, courage, and honor, we shall surely vindicate
the principles of civilization and Orderly society, within our own States, whether we immediately
succeed in impressing them on South Carolina and her evil sisterhood or not. Let us but vindicate
their existence on any part of this continent, and that alone will insure their final prevalence
on the continent as a whole. Let us now but make them inexpugnable, and they will make themselves
universal. This law of necessary prevalence, in a socialization whose vital principle is reverence
for the nature of man, was clearly seen by the masters, or rather, one should say, by the subjects,
of the slave system; and this war signifies their immediate purpose to build up between it
and themselves a Chinese excluding wall, and their ulterior purpose to starve and trample it
out of this hemisphere.

Finally, just that which teaches us charity toward the slaveholders teaches us also, forbearing
all thought of base and demoralizing compositions, to press the hand steadily upon the hilt
it has grasped, until war's work is done. These servants of a predaceous principle are nearly,
if not quite, its earliest prey. Enemies to us, they are twice enemies to themselves. They
are driven helplessly on, and will be so until we slay the tyrant that wrings from them their
evil services. During that fatal month's siesta at Yorktown, the country was horror-stricken
to hear that the enemy were forcing negroes at the point of the bayonet to work those pieces
of ordnance from which the whites, in terror of our sharpshooters, had fled away. But behind
the whites themselves, behind the whole disloyal South, had long been another bayonet goading
heart and brain, and pricking them on to aggression after aggression, till aggression found
its goal, where we trust it will find its grave, in civil war. Poor wretches! Who does not
pity them? Who that pities them wisely would not all the more firmly grasp that sword which
alone can deliver them?

Nor has the slave-system been any worse than it must be, in pushing us and them to the present
pass. So bad it must be, or cease to be at all. All things obey their nature. Hydrophobia will
bite, small-pox infect, plague enter upon life and depart upon death, hyenas scent the new-made
graves, and predaceous systems of society open their mouths ever and ever for prey. What else
can they do? Even would the Secessionists consent to partial compositions, as they will not,
they must inevitably break faith, as ever before. They are slaves to the slave-system. As wise
were it to covenant with the dust not to fly, or with the sea not to foam, when the hurricane
blows, as to bargain with these that they shall resist that despotic impetus which compels
them. They are slaves. And their master is one whose law is to devour. Only he who might meditate
letting go a Bengal tiger on its parole of honor, or binding over a pestilence to keep the
peace, should so much as dream for a moment of civil compositions with this system. Its action
is inevitable. And therefore our only wisdom will be to make our way by the straightest path
to this, which is our chief, and in the last analysis our only enemy, and cut it through and
through. This only will be a final preservation to ourselves; this only the noblest amity to
the South; this, deliverance to the captivity of two continents, Africa and America: so that
here principle and policy are for once so obviously, as ever they are really, one and the same,
that no man of sense should fail to perceive their unity.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS

RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

The Works of Charles Dickens. Household Edition. Illustrated from Drawings by F.O.C. Darley
and John Gilbert. Dombey & Son. In Four Volumes. New York. Sheldon & Co. 16mo. pp. 322, 312,
306, 336. $3.00. David Copperfield. In Four Volumes. New York. Sheldon & Co. 16mo. pp. 309,
318, 329, 308. $4.00.

Lectures on Moral Science. Delivered before the Lowell Institute, Boston. By Mark Hopkins,
D.D., LL.D., President of Williams College, Author of "Lectures on the Evidences of Christianity,"
etc. Boston. Gould & Lincoln. 12mo. pp. 304. $1.00.

The Twin Lieutenants: or, The Soldier's Bride. By Alexander Dumas. Prepared under the Direction
of the War Department, and authorized and adopted by the Secretary of War, May 1,1861. Containing
the School of the Soldier, the School of the Company, Instruction for Skirmishers, the General
Calls, the Calls for Skirmishers, and the School of the Battalion; including the Articles of
War and a Dictionary of Military Terms. With Questions adapted to the Text. By Lieutenant-Colonel
H.B. Wilson. Philadelphia. J.B. Lippincott & Co. 18mo. pp. 548. $1.50.

The Origin and History of the English Language, and of the Early Literature it embodies. By
George P. Marsh, Author of "Lectures on the English Language," etc., etc. New York. C. Scribner.
8vo. pp. 574. $3.00.

The Florence Stories. By Jacob Abbott. The English Channel. New York. Sheldon & Co. 16mo. pp.
252. V. Boston. Taggard & Thompson. 12mo. pp. 456. $1.50.

Sprees and Splashes. By Henry Morford. New York. G.W. Carleton. 16mo. paper. pp. 240. 75 cts.

The History of the Civil War in America; comprising a Full and Impartial Account of the Origin
and Progress of the Rebellion, of the Various Naval and Military Engagements, of the Heroic
Deeds performed by Armies and Individuals, and of Touching Scenes in the Field, the Camp, the
Hospital, and the Cabin. By John S.C. Abbott, Author of "Life of Napoleon," "History of the
French Revolution," etc. Illustrated with Maps, Diagrams, and Numerous Steel Engravings of
Battle-Scenes, from Original Designs by Darley and other Eminent Artists, and Portraits of
Distinguished Men. Vol. 1. New York. Ledyard Bill. 8vo. pp. 507. $3.00.

The Orpheus C. Kerr Papers. Second Series. New York. G.W. Carleton. 12mo. pp. 367. $1.25.

Sketches of the War: A Series of Letters to the North Moore Street School of New York. By Charles
C. Nott. New York. Charles T. Evans. 16mo. pp. 174. 75 cts.

Andree de Faverney: or, The Downfall of French Monarchy. By Alexander Dumas. In Two Volumes.
Philadelphia. T.B. Peterson & Brothers. 8vo. paper, pp. 166, 160. $1.00. IV. Northern Colonies.
New York. Sheldon & Co. 16mo. pp. 288. 75 cts.

Garret Van Horn: or, The Beggar on Horseback. By John S. Sauzade. New York. G.W. Carleton.
12mo. pp. 376. $1.25.

Notes, Criticisms, and Correspondence upon Shakspeare's Plays and Actors. By James Henry Hackett.
New York. G.W. Carleton. 12mo. pp. 353. $1.50.

Tactics: or, Cupid in Shoulder-Straps. A West-Point Love-Story. By Hearton Drille, U.S.A. New
York. G.W. Carleton. 12mo. paper, pp. 250. 75 cts.

Aurora Floyd, from "Temple Bar." By Miss M.E. Braddon. Philadelphia. T.B. Peterson & Brothers.
8vo. paper, pp. 270. 50 cts.

Thirty-Nine Men for One Woman. An Episode of the Colonization of Canada. By H. Émille Chevalier.
New York. John Bradburn. 16mo. paper, pp. xii., 310. 50 cts.

The Prisoner of State. By D.A. Mahony. New York. G.W. Carleton. 12mo. pp. 414. $1.25.

Lulu. A Tale of the National-Hotel Poisoning. By Mansfield T. Walworth. New York. G.W. Carleton.
12mo. pp. 420. $.25.

Spectacles for Young Eyes. Pekin. By Sarah W. Lander. Boston. Walker, Wise, & Co. 16mo. pp.
218. 75 cts.

The Pioneer Boy, and how He became President. By William M. Thayer, Author of "The Bobbin Boy,"
etc. Boston. Walker, Wise, & Co. 16mo. pp. 310. $1.00.

The Last Times and the Greate Consummation. An Earnest Discussion of Momentous Themes. By Joseph
A. Seiss, D.D., Author of "The Day of the Lord," etc. Philadelphia. Smith, English, & Co. 12mo.
pp. 438. $1.25.

The Great Consummation. The Millennial Rest; or, The World as it will be. By the Rev. John
Gumming, D.D., F.R.S.E. First Series. New York. G.W. Carleton. 12mo. pp. 307. $1.00.

Union Foundations: A Study of American Nationality as a Fact of Science. By Captain E.B. Hunt,
Corps of Engineers, U.S.A. New York. D. Van Nostrand. 8vo. paper, pp. 62. 30 cts.

