  For evermore, in days like these,
    When musing on your face,
  My sad imagination sees
    Another in my place.
  Say, do you listen to his prayer,
    Or slay him with a frown?
  At any rate I can't be there.
                      Come back to Town!

  Why linger by some far-off lake
    Or Continental strand?
  St. Martin's Summer comes to make
    A glory in the land.
  The river runs a golden stream
    Where WREN'S great dome looks down;
  Thine eyes, methinks, have brighter gleam;
                      Come back to Town!

  I hear your voice upon the wind,
    In dreamland you appear;
  But do you wonder that I find
    The day so long and drear?
  Lentis adhærens brachiis come
   Once more my life to crown;
  Without thee 'tis too burdensome.
                      Come back to Town!

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S DICTIONARY OF PHRASES.

AT AN AFTERNOON CALL.

"So glad to see you at last. Now don't let me interrupt your talk with Mrs. VEREKER;" i.e.,
"If I do, I shall be let in for being button-holed."

"Do let me get you some tea--you must be dying for a cup;" i.e., "Know I am."

"So sorry--I fear everything is cold. Do let me have some fresh tea made for you;" i.e., "He
can't accept that offer."

IN A NON-SMOKING CARRIAGE.

"You don't mind my cigar, do you?" i.e., "I know he does, but I'm not going to waste it."

(Reply to the above query.)

"Oh, not at all!" i.e., "Beastly thing! If he wasn't so confoundedly selfish and stingy, he'd
throw it away."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I'M AFLOAT!"

(NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE VERSION.)

  I'm afloat, I'm afloat on the coaly black Tyne!
  The draft licence sent me I begged to decline;
  Though other chaps had 'em, they were not for me;
  I prefer a free flag, on the strictest Q.T.
  A sly "floating factory" thus I set up
  (I'm a mixture of RUPERT the Rover and KRUPP).
  At Jarrow Slake moored, my trim wherry or boat
  I rejoiced in, and sung "I'm afloat! I'm afloat!"
  For quick-firing guns ammunition I made,
  Engaging (says FORD) in the contraband trade.
  An inquest was held, but its verdict cleared me.
  I'm afloat, I'm afloat, and the Rover is free!

  I fear not the Government, heed not its law.
  Much rumpus is made, we shall hear lots of jaw:
  An explosion took place on October the third,
  My sly "floating factory" blew up like a bird.
  It killed one poor fellow, and damaged a lot,
  But I am a Great Gun, and got off like a shot;
  Indeed all were well, but for cold Colonel FORD,
  Who blames me, the Rover! Too bad, on my word!
  The Pirate of Elswick shall not be the sport
  of a fussy Commission's ill-tempered Report.
  To bring me to book is all fiddlededee--
  I'm afloat, I'm afloat, and the Rover is free!

  I contraband, careless? Why, everyone owns
  That is natural, 'neath the black flag and cross-bones.
  No mere paltry maker of fireworks am I,
  But a Rover who's free, whose sole roof is the sky.
  The law of the land may the petty appal.
  But frighten the Rover? Oh no, not at all!
  And ne'er to Commissions or Colonels I'll yield,
  Whilst there's Black Tyne to back me or Whitehall to shield.
  Unfurl the Black Flag! shake its folds to the wind!
  And I'll warrant we'll soon leave sea-lawyers behind.
  Up, up with the flag! Pirate's licence for me!
  I'm afloat, I'm afloat, and the Rover is free!

       *       *       *       *       *

DEFINITION OF MILITARY MANOEUVRES.--"Peace-work."

DARWINITES.--"The Evolutionary Squadron."

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

Speaking of Reynart the Fox, I was made, by a slip of the printer's hand--I am accustomed to
seeing slips from his hand, which is quite another thing--to say that this mediæval romance
"presents a truer picture of life than novels in which vice is punished and virtue patiently
rewarded." After considering for some time what on earth I could have meant by "patiently rewarded,"
I remembered that I had written "patently rewarded." The printer put my "i" out; and without
an "i" it was very difficult to perceive the sense of the phrase.

Nutshell Novels, by that crack writer--no, not "crack'd"--and poet, whose verses send a frill
right through us, Mr. J. ASHBY-STERRY, are coming out. Capital title. As SHAKSPEARE says, "Sermons
in stones, novels in nutshells, and good in everything." SHELLEY'S poems might be brought out
in pocketable form under a similar title, Nut-Shelley Poems. I have not yet seen the volume
in question, only heard tell of it, and should not be surprised to hear that the central novel
and the best was a short military novel, entitled The Kernel. Messrs. HUTCHINSON & Co. are
the publishers. I hope Mr. STERRY has illustrated them himself. He can draw and paint, but
he won't, and there's an end on't. He must follow up the Nutshells with a volume of Crackers,
about Christmas time.

Just been looking through London Street Arabs, by Mrs. H.M. STANLEY, published by CASSELL &
Co., which firm--whose telegraphic address is "Caspeg, London," and a good name too--writes
to the Baron thus:--"In forwarding you an early copy"--small and early--"of Mrs. Stanley's
book, we will ask you to be good enough"--("I am 'good enough'" quoth the Baron)--"to confine
your extracts from the Introduction to an extent not exceeding one-third of the whole." "Willingly,
my dear 'Caspeg,'" replies the Baron, who does not like being dictated to, and, to gratify
your wish to the utmost, he will make no extracts at all from the book, a proceeding which
ought mightily to delight "Caspeg, London." What next? Will publishers send to the Baron, and
request him not even to breathe the names of their books? By all means. He has no objection,
as, whether sent to him for review, or purchased by him pour se distraire, the Baron only mentions
those he likes, or, if he mentions those he dislikes, 'tis pro bono publico, and there's an
end on't. Mrs. STANLEY appreciates humour, as the following anecdote will show--But, dear me,
the Baron is forgetful--he begs "Caspeg's" pardon; he mustn't quote. Mrs. STANLEY can be truly
sympathetic with sorrow, as the following story proves--no, "Caspeg," the story must not follow.
Never mind--the Baron's dear readers will read it for themselves if they feel "so dispoged."
The Baron supposes that all this was written and drawn while Mrs. STANLEY was Miss DOROTHY
TENNANT, because her recorded opinion, probably, as a spinster, is (and here the Baron "quotes"
not, but "alludes"), that you can find better artistic material in this line at home, than
you can obtain by seeking it abroad; yet when she married, off she went to Milan, Venice, and
so forth. For pleasure, of course, not work; but work to her is evidently pleasure. May happiness
have accompanied her everywhere! The drawings are pretty, rather of the goody-good "Sunday-at-home-readings"
kind of illustrations. And what on earth has a sort of pictorial advertisement for "Somebody's
Soap" got to do with Street Arabs? "Washed Ashore; or, Happy At Last," might be the title of
this mer-baby picture, in which two naked children, not Street Arabs, or Arabs of any sort,
are depicted as examining the inanimate body of a nondescript creature, half flesh and half
fish, which has been thrown up by the waves "to be left till called for" by the next high-tide,
when, perhaps, its sorrowing parents, Mr. and Mrs. MERMAN, or its widowed mother, Mrs. MERWOMAN,
arrayed in sea-"weeds," may come to claim it and give it un-christian burial. But that the
Baron, out of deference to the wishes of "Caspeg, London," does not like to quote one single
line, he could give Mrs. STANLEY'S own account of how this picture of the Mer-baby came to
be included in the Street Arab Collection. For such explanation the Baron refers the reader
to the book itself. "Caspeg," farewell!

I have, the Baron says, commenced the first pages of The Last Days of Palmyra. Good, so far;
but several new books have come in, and Palmyra cannot receive my undivided attention, says

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

P.S.--My faithful "Co." has been reading Ferrers Court, by JOHN STRANGE WINTER, author of Bootle's
Baby and a number of other novelettes of like kind. He says that he is getting just the least
bit tired of Mignon, and the plain-spoken girls, and the rest of them. By the way, he observes
that it seems to be the fashion, judging from the pages of Ferrers Court, in what he may call
"Service Suckles," to talk continually of a largely advertising lady's tailor. If this custom
spreads, he presumes that the popular topic of conversation, the weather, will have to give
place to the prior claims for consideration of Somebody's Blacking, or Somebody-else's Soap.
This is to be regretted, as, in spite of the sameness of subject of the Bootle's Baby series,
JOHN STRANGE WINTER is always more amusing than nine-tenths of his (or should it be her?) contemporaries.
B. De B.-W. & Co.

P.S. No. 2.--The Baron wishes to add that on taking up the Bride of Lammermoor in order to
refresh his memory before seeing the new drama, he was struck by a few lines in the description
of Lucy Ashton, which, during rehearsals, must have been peculiarly appropriate to her representative
at the Lyceum, Miss ELLEN TERRY. "Great Scott!" indeed! Perfectly prophetic, and prophetically
perfect. B. DE B.-W.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

STALKING THE SAGACIOUS STAG.

SPORTING NOTES FROM OUR SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE.

I had an invite from JEPSON, a Stock Exchange acquaintance, who has rented a Moor for the winter
months, and who, happening to hear that I and my two foreign friends were in the neighbourhood,
most kindly asked me to come and have a look at his box, and bring them with me.

"I hear," he writes, "that the deer are very lively, and if you want to show your foreign friends
some first-rate British Sport, you can't do better than bring them."

Need I say that I jumped at this. Coming along on the top of the coach, that takes us to Spital-hoo,
the place my friend has rented, I have been endeavouring to describe what I imagine to be the
nature of the sport of Deer-stalking to the Chief and the Bulgarian Count. The former, who
has been listening attentively, says that, from my description, stalking a stag must be very
much the same as hunting the double-humped bison in Mwangumbloola, and that the only weapon
he shall take with him will be a pickaxe. I have pointed out to him that I don't think this
will be any use, as in deer-stalking I fancy you follow the stag at some distance, but he seems
resolute about the pickaxe, and so, I suppose, I must let him have his way. The Bulgarian Count
was deeply interested in the matter, and says that evidently the proper weapon to use is a
species of quick-firing, repeating Hotchkiss, and that he has one now on its way through Edinburgh,
the invention of a compatriot, that will fire 2700 two-ounce bullets in a minute and a-half.
I fancy, if he uses this, he will surprise the neighbourhood; but, of course, I have not said
anything to interfere with his project.

We have arrived at Spital-hoo all safe and sound, and JEPSON has given us a most cordial welcome.
But I must now have once more recourse to my current notes.

I have now been something like five hours on the tramp, plodding my way through a deep glen
in a pine forest, but have not yet come across any sign of a stag, I started with the Chief
and the Count, but the former soon went off at a tangent somewhere on his own hook, and the
latter, who had got his Hotchkiss with him and found it heavy work to drag it up and down the
mountain paths, I have left behind to take a rest and recuperate himself. I pause in my walk
and listen. The forest is intensely still. Not a sign of a stag anywhere.

JEPSON is left at home, as he is expecting a couple of local Ministers to tea, but he has told
me I'm "bound to come across whole herds of them," if I only tramp long enough. Well, I've
been at it five hours, and I certainly ought to have spotted something by this time. By Jove,
though, what's that moving in the path ahead of me? It is! It is a stag! A magnificent fellow--though
he appears to have only one horn. But, how odd! I believe he has seen me, and yet doesn't seem
scared! Yes, he is actually approaching in the most leisurely fashion in the world. But that
isn't the correct thing. In deer-stalking, I'm sure you ought to stalk the deer, not the deer
stalk you. And this creature is absolutely coming down on me. Oh! I can't stand this. I shall
have a shot at him. Bang! Have fired--and missed! And, by Jove, the stag doesn't seem to mind!
He is coming nearer and nearer. He actually comes close to where I am kneeling, and with facetious
friendliness removes my Tam o'Shanter! But, hulloah! who is this speaking? "Ha, and would ye
blaze awa wi' your weepons upon poor old Epaminondas, mon!" It is an aged Highlander who is
addressing me, and he has just turned out of a bye-path. He is fondling the creature's nose
affectionately, and the stag seems to know him. I remark as much.

"Ha! sure he does," he replies, "Why there's nae a body doon the glen but has got a friendly
word for puir Old Epaminondas. You see he's blind o' one 'ee, and he's lost one o' his antlers,
and he's a wee bit lame, and all the folk here about treat him kindly, when ye thought to put
that bit o' lead into him just noo, sure he was just oomin' to ye for a bit o' oatmeal cake."

I express my regret for having so nearly shot the "Favourite of the Glen" through inadvertence!
I explain that I came out deerstalking, and did not expect, of course, to come across a perfectly
tame and domestic stag.

"A weel, there's nae mischief done," continues my interlocutor; "but it's nae good a stalking
Epaminondas, for he's just a sagacious beastie altogether."

       *       *       *       *       *

Here we are at the Lodge. But, hulloah! what's this uproar on the lawn? A herd of deer dashing
wildly over everything, flowerbeds and all, and, yes, absolutely five of them bursting into
the house, through one of the drawing-room windows, while JEPSON and the two kirk Ministers
emerge hurriedly, terrified, from the other. Crash! And what's that? Why, surely it can't be--but
yes, I believe it is--yes, it positively is the Chief's pickaxe that has flown through the
air, and just smashed through the upper panes, scattering the glass in a thousand fragments
in all directions!

And thus ends my Stalking for the Present, and (probably) the Future!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BRITISH LION AND THE GERMAN FOX; OR, A MISTAKE SOMEWHERE.

THE SEQUEL OF A FABLE.

(SEE "THE GERMAN FOX AND THE BRITISH LION," PUNCH, NOVEMBER 17, 1888.)

  "When Fox with Lion hunts, one would be sorry
  To say who gains--until they've shared the quarry!"
        Such was the Moral
  Of the first chapter of our modern Fable.
  Is the co-partnership still strong and stable,
        Or are there signs of quarrel
  More than mere querulous quidnuncs invent
  To break companionship and mar content?

  Reynard has settled down into that latitude,
    Pilgrim, perhaps, but certainly a Trader.
  Does he not show a certain change of attitude,
    Suggestive rather less of the Crusader,
  Eager to earn the black-skinned bondsman's gratitude,
  Than of the Bagman with his sample-box?
        Ah, Master Fox!
  Somehow the scallop seems to slip aside,
  And that brave banner, which, with honest pride
  You waved, like some commercial Quixote--verily
  'Tis not to-day so valorously flaunted,
        And scarce so cheerily.
  You boast the pure knight-errantry so vaunted,
        Some two years since,
  Eh? You unfeigned Crusading zeal evince?
        Whence, then, that rival banner
  Which you coquet with in so cautious manner?
  Hoisting it? Humph! Say, rather, just inspecting it.
  But whether with intention of rejecting it,
  Or temporising with the sly temptation
        And making Proclamation
  Of views a trifle modified, and ardour
  A little cooled by thoughts of purse and larder.
        Why, that's the question.
  Reynard will probably resent suggestion
  Of playing renegade, in the cause of Trade,
  To that same Holy, Noble, New Crusade.
  "Only," he pleads, "don't fume, and fuss, and worry,
  The New Crusade is not a thing to hurry;
  I never meant hot zealotry or haste--
  Things hardly to the solid Teuton taste!"

  And Leo? Well, he always had his doubts,
  Yet to indulge in fierce precipitate flouts
        Is not his fashion.
  The Anti-Slavery zeal, with him a passion,
  He knows less warmly shared by other traders;
        But soi-disant Crusaders
  Caught paltering with the Infidels, like traitors,
  And hot enthusiast Emancipators
    Who the grim Slavery-demon gently tackle,
    Wink at the scourge, and dally with the shackle,
  Such, though they vaunt their zeal and orthodoxy,
  Seem--for philanthropists--a trifle foxy!

       *       *       *       *       *

Réclame (Gratis).--Where is the Lessee of the Haymarket? He ought to have been in India. He
was wanted there. The Daily News, last week, told us in its Morning News Columns that "at a
place called Beerbhoom"--clearly the Indian spelling of Beerbohm--"there was a desirable piece
of land lying waste"--the very spot for a theatre--"because it was reputed to be haunted by
a malignant goddess,"--that wouldn't matter as long as the "gods" were well provided for. Then
it continues, "They" (who?) "did all they could to propitiate her, setting apart a tree--."
Yes; but it wasn't the right tree: of course it ought to have been a BEERBHOOM TREE. His first
drama might have shown how a Buddhist priest couldn't keep a secret. Thrilling!

       *       *       *       *       *

WOMAN'S HAPPIEST HOUR.

(BY A SOUR OLD CYNIC.)

  A Yankee Journal raises wordy strife
  About "the happiest hour of Woman's life."
  I'll answer in less compass than a sonnet:--
  "When she outshines her best friend's smartest bonnet!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

RATS IN COUNCIL.

A mass meeting of Rats was held (unknown to the Park-keepers) under the Reformer's Oak in Hyde
Park, at midnight of last Sunday. The object of the gathering was to protest against the proposal
made by a Correspondent of The Times, that the "sewer-rats who had established themselves in
the sylvan retreat" known as Hyde Park Dell, should be exterminated by means of "twenty ferrets
and a few capable dogs."

Mr. RODENT (Senior) was called upon to preside. He took the hillock amid waving of tails and
much enthusiasm, and remarked that he trusted that that vast assembly, one of the most magnificent
demonstrations that even Hyde Park had ever known, would show by its orderly behaviour, that
Rats knew how to conduct business. (Cheers.) They lived in strange times. A barbarous suggestion
had been made to evict them--to turn them out of house and home, by means of what he might
call Emergency Ferrets. (Groans, and cries of "Boycott them!") He feared that boycotting a
ferret would not do much good. (A squeak--"Why not try rattening?"--and laughter.) Arbitration
seemed to him the most politic course under the circumstances. (Cheers.) They were accused
of eating young moor-chicks. Well, was a Rat to starve? ("No, no!") Did not a Rat owe a duty
to those dependent upon it? (Cheers, and cries of "Yes!") He appealed to the opinion of the
civilised world to put a stop--At this point in the Chair-rat's address, an alarm of "Dogs!"
was raised, and the meeting at once dispersed in some confusion.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE JOURNALIST-AT-ARMS.

  Who would not be a Journalist-at-Arms?
  Life for that paladin hath poignant charms.
  Whether in pretty quarrel he shall run
  Just half an inch of rapier--in pure fun--
  In his opponent's biceps, or shall flick
  His shoulders with a slender walking-stick.
  The "stern joy" of the man indeed must rise
  To raptures and heroic ecstacies.
  Oh, glorious climax of a vulgar squabble,
  To redden your foe's nose, or make him hobble
  For half a week or so, as though, perchance,
  He'd strained an ancle in a leap or dance!
  Feeble sword-play or futile fisticuffs
  Might be disdained by warriors--or roughs;
  But to the squabbling scribe the farce has charms.
  Who would not be a Journalist-at-Arms?

       *       *       *       *       *

"WANTED!"

A thoroughly well appointed and handsomely furnished COUNTRY MANSION (Elizabethan or Jacobæan
period preferred) wanted immediately. It must contain not less than 50 bedrooms, appropriate
reception-rooms, and a hall capable of being utilised for fêtes and gala entertainments on
a large scale, and must stand in the midst of extensive timbered grounds, surrounded by orangeries,
hot-houses, and beautifully kept pleasure grounds replete with the choicest pieces of statuary
and ornamental fountains arranged for electrical illumination, the perfect installation of
which on the premises, on the newest principles, is regarded as a sine quâ non by the Advertiser.
The shooting over four or five hundred acres, and the meeting of not less than three packs
of hounds in the immediate neighbourhood, with salmon and trout fishing within easy distance
of the mansion, are also considered indispensable. Particulars as to the surrounding country
gentry are requested. Write also stating whether any recognised race-meeting is held in the
immediate vicinity. The distance of the property from town must not be more than half an hour's
railway journey, and the inclusive rent must not exceed five and twenty shillings a week.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ODE TO OZONE.

(BY A POOR PATERFAMILIAS.)

    "London is a terrible consumer of ozone."--Standard.

    A'R--"The Dutchman's Little Dog."

  O where and O where, is our treasured Ozone?
    O where, and O where can it be?
  From London to leeward 'tis utterly gone,
    To windward but little floats free.

  Since SCHÖNBEIN of Basle discovered the stuff,
    We've lived half a cen-tu-ree.
  If of it we only could swallow enough,
    How healthy, how happy were we!

  Condensed form of oxygen, essence of air
    That's fresh, or electricitee,
  Ozone is the stuff shaken health to repair.
    'Tis for it we all fly to the sea!

  Solidified Ozone they talk about now,
    To be bought in small bricks like pressed tea.
  The air that is cheering when breathed on one's brow
    In cubic foot-blocks would bring glee.

  How pleasant to buy one's Ozone, like one's coal,
   And store it up an-nu-al-lee!
  And not fly for it to some dull cockney hol
    Just because it is dug by the Sea!

  Ah yes, let us have it, this needful Ozone,
    In portable parcels! Ah me!
  No longer need Paterfamilias groan
    At the cost of that month by the Sea!

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARIAN MOTTO FOR THE NEW UNIONISM.--(Dedicated to the Artisan left out in the cold.)--"In
the ambush of my name, strike home!"--Measure for Measure.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MY UMBRELLA.

  'Twere hard indeed to try to get
    A theme without some poem on it--
  A vilanelle, a triolet,
    An ode, an epic, or a sonnet.
  CASTARA'S charms were sung of old,
    Both SWIFT and SIDNEY, wrote to STELLA,
  But mine it is to first unfold
  The praise of my beloved Umbrella.

  You are not difficult to please,
    Although no doubt a trifle "knobby;"
  Whilst I'm reclining at mine ease,
    I leave you standing in the lobby.
  I ever treat you thus, and yet
    I haven't got a friend who's firmer;
  In point of fact, you even let
    Me shut you up without a murmur.

  Now some seek solace sweet in smoke,
    And make a pipe their AMARYLLIS;
  So think not that I do but joke
    In calling you my darling PHYLLIS.
  And though the gossips never spare
    For ill-report to seek a handle,
  The (indiarubber) ring you wear
    Prevents the very thought of scandal.

  "Fair weather, friend," we've often heard
    Used as a term to throw discredit,
  Though clearly it were quite absurd
    If speaking of yourself one said it.
  When skies are blue (a thing that's rare)
    I in the coolest way forsake you,
  But when the Forecast tells me "Fair,"
    Or "Settled Sunshine," then I take you.

  I like to think of one sweet day
    When cats and dogs it kept on raining,
  (Why "cats and dogs," it's right to say,
    Who will oblige me by explaining?)
  When someone, who had golden hair,
    And I were walking out together,
  And underneath your sheltering care,
    Were happy spite of wind and weather.

  One day I asked a friend to dine,
    The friend I most completely trusted.
  We sat and chatted o'er the wine,
    He liked the port--my fine old crusted.
  At length we said "Good-night." He went
    But not alone. For to my sorrow
  My mind with jealousy was rent,
    To find you missing on the morrow.

  You had eloped! Yet all the same
    I felt quite sure you were his victim,
  When back a sorry wreck you came,
    I very nearly went and kicked him!
  Did Love take wings, and fly away?
    Grew my affection less? No, never!
  To tell the truth, I'm bound to say
    I fondly loved you more than ever!

  With him--the man who was my friend--
    It's pretty clear you got on badly;
  Your ribs, somehow, seem prone to bend,
    Your silken dress seems wearing sadly.
  It's very hard, I know, to part,
    And sentimental feelings smother,
  But even though it break my heart,
    I'm going, next week, to get another.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPH ON A PLATE OF VENISON (a suggestion, at the service of those who collect menu cards).--"Though
lost to sight, to memory deer!"

       *       *       *       *       *

HISTORY AS SHE IS WROTE!

    Last week the St. James's Gazette published an article
    proving that the Bastille, so far from being a gloomy prison,
    was the most delightful of hotels. This historical record has,
    however, caused no surprise in 85, Fleet Street, because the
    following extract from a very old diary has for years been
    awaiting publication. The time has now arrived for it to see
    the light.

GAY MOMENTS AT THE ANCIENT BAILEY.

