And now the entire hundred of his followers were assembled there to overpower the twenty that
served Monna Valentina; and Guidobaldo--despite Gian Maria's scruples--strode coolly forward
to the chapel door.

        *        *        *        *        *

Within the chapel Mass had started. Fra Domenico at the foot of the altar had pattered through
the Confiteor, his deep voice responded to by the soprano of the ministering page. The Kyrie
was being uttered when the attention of the congregation was attracted by the sound of steps
approaching the chapel door to the accompaniment of an ominous clank of steel. The men rose
in a body, fearing treachery, and cursing--despite the sanctity of the place--the circumstance
that they were without weapons.

Then the door opened, and down the steps rang the armed heels of the new-comers, so that every
eye was turned upon them, including that of Fra Domenico, who had pronounced the last "Christe
eleison" in a quavering voice.

A gasp of relief, followed by an angry cry from Valentina, went up when they recognised those
that came. First stepped the Count of Aquila in full armour, sword at side and dagger on hip,
carrying his head-piece on the crook of his left arm. Behind him towered the bulk of Fortemani,
his great face flushed with a strange excitement, a leather hacketon over his steel cuirass,
girt, too, with sword and dagger, and carrying his shining morion in his hand. Last came Lanciotto
and Zaccaria, both fully equipped and armed at all points.

"Who are you that come thus accoutred into God's House to interrupt the holy Mass?" cried the
bass voice of the friar.

"Patience, good father," answered Francesco calmly, "The occasion is our justification."

"What does this mean, Fortemani?" demanded Valentina imperiously, her eyes angrily set upon
her captain, utterly ignoring the Count. "Do you betray me too?"

"It means, Madonna," answered the giant bluntly, "that your lap-dog, Messer Gonzaga, is at
this very moment admitting Gian Maria and his forces to Roccaleone, by the postern."

There was a hoarse cry from the men, which Francesco silenced by a wave of his mailed hand.

Valentina looked wildly at Fortemani, and then, as if drawn by a greater will than her own,
her eyes were forced to travel to the Count. He instantly advanced, and bowed his head before her.

"Madonna, this is no hour for explanations. Action is needed, and that at once. I was wrong
in not disclosing my identity to you before you discovered it by such unfortunate means and
with the assistance of the only traitor Roccaleone has harboured, Romeo Gonzaga--who, as Fortemani
has just told you, is at this moment admitting my cousin and your uncle to the castle. But
that my object was ever other than to serve you, or that I sought, as was represented to you,
to turn this siege to my own political profit, that, Madonna, I implore you in your own interests
to believe untrue."

She sank on to her knees and with folded hands began to pray to the Mother of Mercy, deeming
herself lost, for his tone carried conviction, and he had said that Gian Maria was entering
the castle.

"Madonna," he cried, touching her lightly on the shoulder; "let your prayers wait until they
can be of thanksgiving. Listen. By the vigilance of Peppe there, who, good soul that he is,
never lost faith in me or deemed me a dastard, we were informed last night--Fortemani and I--of
this that Gonzaga was preparing. And we have made our plans and prepared the ground. When Gian
Maria's soldiers enter, they will find the outer doors barred and locked, and we shall gain
a little time while they break through them. My men, as you will observe, are even now barring
the door of the chapel to impose a further obstacle. Now while they are thus engaged we must
act. Briefly, then, if you will trust us we will bear you out of this, for we four have worked
through the night to some purpose."

She looked at him through a film of tears, her face drawn and startled. Then she put her hands
to her brow in a gesture of bewildered helplessness.

"But they will follow us," she complained.

"Not so," he answered, smiling. "For that, too, have we provided. Come, Madonna, time presses."

A long moment she looked at him. Then brushing aside the tears that dimmed her sight, she set
a hand on either of his shoulders, and stood so, before them all, gazing up into his calm face.

"How shall I know that what you say is true--that I may trust you?" she asked, but her voice
was not the voice of one that demands an overwhelming proof ere she will believe.

"By my honour and my knighthood," he answered, in a ringing voice, "I make oath here, at the
foot of God's altar, that my purpose--my only purpose--has been, is, and shall be to serve
you, Monna Valentina."

"I believe you," she cried; to sob a moment later:

"Forgive me, Francesco, and may God, too, forgive my lack of faith in you."

He softly breathed her name in such sweet accents that a happy peace pervaded her, and the
bright courage of yore shone in her brown eyes.

"Come, sirs!" he cried now, with a sudden briskness that startled them into feverish obedience.
"You, Fra Domenico, cut off your sacerdotals, and gird high your habit. There is climbing for
you. Here, a couple of you, move aside that altar-step. My men and I have spent the night in
loosening its old hinges."

They raised the slab, and in the gap beneath it was disclosed a flight of steps leading down
to the dungeons and cellars of Roccaleone.

Down this they went in haste but in good order, marshalled by Francesco, and when the last
had passed down, he and Lanciotto, aided by others below, who had seized a rope that he had
lowered them, replaced the slab from underneath, so that no trace should remain of the way
by which they had come.

A postern had been unbarred below by Fortemani, who had led the way with a half-dozen of the
men; and a huge scaling ladder that lay in readiness in that subterranean gallery was rushed
out across the moat, which at this point was a roaring torrent.

Fortemani was the first to descend that sloping bridge, and upon reaching the ground he made
fast the lower end.

Next went a dozen men at Francesco's bidding, armed with the pikes that had been left overnight
in the gallery. At a word of command they slipped quietly away. Then came the women, and lastly,
the remainder of the men.

Of the enemy they caught no glimpse; not so much as a sentry, for every one of Gian Maria's
men had been pressed into the investment of the castle. Thus they emerged from Roccaleone,
and made their way down that rough bridge into the pleasant meadows to the south. Already Fortemani
and his dozen men had disappeared at the trot, making for the front of the castle, when Francesco
stepped last upon the bridge, and closed the postern after him. Then he glided rapidly to the
ground, and with the assistance of a dozen ready hands he dragged away the scaling ladder.
They carried it some yards from the brink of the torrent, and deposited it in the meadow. With
a laugh of purest relish Francesco stepped to Valentina's side.

"It will exercise their minds to discover how we got out," he cried, "and they will be forced
to the conclusion that we are angels all, with wings beneath our armour. We have not left them
a single ladder or a strand of rope in Roccaleone by which to attempt to follow us, even if
they discover how we came. But come, Valentina mia, the comedy is not finished yet. Already
Fortemani will have removed the bridge by which they entered and engaged such few men as may
have been left behind, and we have the High and Mighty Gian Maria in the tightest trap that
was ever fashioned."

CHAPTER XXV. THE CAPITULATION OF ROCCALEONE

In the sunshine of that bright May morning Francesco and his men went merrily to work to possess
themselves of the ducal camp, and the first business of the day was to arm those soldiers who
had come out unarmed. Of weapons there was no lack, and to these they helped themselves in
liberal fashion, whilst here and there a man would pause to don a haubergeon or press a steel
cap on his head.

Three sentries only had been left to guard the tents, and of these Fortemani and a couple of
his men had made prisoners whilst the others were removing the bridge by which the invaders
had entered. And now beneath the open postern by the drawbridge gaped a surging torrent that
no man would have the hardihood to attempt to swim.

In that opening, presently, appeared Gian Maria, his face red for once, and behind him a clamouring
crowd of men-at-arms who shared their master's rage at the manner in which they had been trapped.

At the rear of the tents Valentina and her ladies awaited the issue of the parley that now
seemed toward. The bulk of the men were busy at Gian Maria's cannons, and under Francesco's
supervision they were training them upon the drawbridge.

From the castle a mighty shout went up. The men disappeared from the postern to reappear a
moment later on the ramparts, and Francesco laughed deep down in his throat as he perceived
the purpose of this. They had bethought them of the guns that were mounted there, and were
gone to use them against Valentina's little army. Gun after gun they tried, and a fierce cry
of rage burst forth when they realised by what dummies they had been held in check during the
past week. This was followed by a silence of some moments, terminated at last by the sound
of a bugle.

Answering that summons to a parley, and with a last word of injunction to Fortemani, who was
left in charge of the men at the guns, Francesco rode forward on one of Gian Maria's horses,
escorted by Lanciotto and Zaccaria similarly mounted, and each armed with a loaded arquebuse.

Under the walls of Roccaleone he drew rein, laughing to himself at this monstrous change of
sides. As he halted--helmet on head, but beaver open--a body came hurtling over the battlements
and splashed into the foaming waters below. It was the corpse of Aventano, which Gian Maria
had peremptorily bidden them to remove from his sight.

"I desire to speak with Monna Valentina della Rovere," cried the furious Duke.

"You may speak with me, Gian Maria," answered Francesco's voice, clear and metallic. "I am
her representative, her sometime Provost of Roccaleone."

"Who are you?" quoth the Duke, struck by a familiar note in that mocking voice.

"Francesco del Falco, Count of Aquila."

"By God! You!"

"An age of marvels, is it not?" laughed Francesco.

"Which will you lose, my cousin--a wife or a duchy?"

Rage struck Gian Maria speechless for a moment. Then he turned to Guidobaldo and whispered
something; but Guidobaldo, who seemed vastly interested now in this knight below, merely shrugged
his shoulders.

"I will lose neither, Messer Francesco," roared the Duke. "Neither, by God!" he screamed. "Neither,
do you hear me?"

"I should be deaf else," was the easy answer, "But you are gravely at fault. One or the other
you must relinquish, and it is yours to make a choice between them. The game has gone against
you, Gian Maria, and you must pay."

"But have I no voice in the bartering of my niece?" asked Guidobaldo, with cold dignity. "Is
it for you, Lord Count, to say whether your cousin shall wed her or not?"

"Why, no. He may wed her if he will, but he will be a duke no longer. In fact, he will be an
outcast with no title to lay claim to, if indeed the Babbianians will leave him a head at all;
whilst I, at least, though not a duke with a tottering throne, am a count with lands, small
but securely held, and shall become a duke if Gian Maria refuses to relinquish me your niece.
So that if he be disposed to marry her, will you be disposed to let her marry a homeless vagrant
or a headless corpse?"

Guidobaldo's face seemed to change, and his eyes looked curiously at the white-faced Duke beside
him.

"So you are the other pretender to my niece's hand, Lord Count?" he asked, in his coldest voice.

"I am, Highness," answered Francesco quietly. "The matter stands thus: Unless Gian Maria is
in Babbiano by morning, he forfeits his crown, and it passes to me by the voice of the people;
but if he will relinquish his claim to Monna Valentina in my favour, then I shall journey straight
to Aquila, and I shall trouble Babbiano no more. If he refuses, and insists upon this wedding,
abhorrent to Monna Valentina, why, then, my men shall hold him captive behind those walls until
it be too late for him to reach his duchy in time to save the crown. In the meantime I will
ride to Babbiano in his stead, and--reluctant though I be to play the duke--I shall accept
the throne and silence the people's importunities. He can then endeavour to win your Highness's
consent to the union."

For perhaps the first time in his life Guidobaldo was guilty of an act of positive discourtesy.
He broke into a laugh--a boisterous, amused laugh that cut into Gian Maria's heart like a knife.

"Why, Lord Count," he said, "I confess that you have us very much in your hands to mould us
as you will. Now, you are such a soldier and such a strategist as it would pleasure me to have
about my person in Urbino. What says your Highness?" he continued, turning now to the almost
speechless Gian Maria. "I have yet another niece with whom we might cement the union of the
two duchies; and she might prove more willing. Women, it seems, will insist upon being women.
Do you not think that Monna Valentina and this your valiant cousin----"

"Heed him not!" screamed Gian Maria, now in a white heat of passion. "He is a smooth-tongued
dog that would argue the very devil out of hell. Make no terms with the hind! I have a hundred
men, and----" He swung suddenly round. "Let down that drawbridge, cowards!" he bawled at them,
"and sweep me those animals from my tents."

"Gian Maria, I give you warning," cried Francesco, loudly and firmly. "I have trained your
own guns on to that bridge, and at the first attempt to lower it I'll blow it into splinters.
You come not out of Roccaleone save at my pleasure and upon my terms, and if you lose your
duchy by your obstinacy, it will be your own work; but answer me now, that I may take my course."

Guidobaldo, too, restrained Gian Maria, and countermanded his order for the lowering of the
bridge. And now on his other side Gonzaga crept up to him, and whispered into his ear the suggestion
that he should wait until night had fallen.

"Wait until night, fool!" blazed the Duke, turning on him, in a fierce joy at finding one whom
he might rend. "If I wait until then, my throne is lost to me. This comes of sorting with traitors.
It is your fault, you Judas!" he cried more fiercely still, his face distorted; "but you at
least shall pay for what you have done."

Gonzaga saw a sudden flash of steel before his eyes, and a piercing scream broke from him as
Gian Maria's dagger buried itself in his breast. Too late Guidobaldo put forward a hand to
stay the Duke.

And so, by a strangely avenging justice, the magnificent Gonzaga sank dead on the very spot
on which he had so cravenly and dastardly poniarded Aventano.

"Throw me that carrion into the moat," growled Gian Maria, still quivering with rage that had
prompted his ferocious act.

He was obeyed, and thus murdered and murderer were united in a common grave.

