No. 106.

THE DELIGHTS OF THE SEASIDE By Emily Carter    97
MABEL AND HER FRIEND CARLO By Ned              99
PLAYING KING By Alfred Selwyn                 100
A TRUE ANTELOPE STORY By Lloyd Wyman          102
THE APPLE TREE By Clara Doty Bates            105
A COUNCIL OF HORSES By Uncle Charles          106
THE PET OF THE SHIP By C.E.C.                 108
THE UNMOTHERLY HEN By C.R.W.                  111
A DRAWING LESSON                                113
THE CHILDREN'S VISIT TO THE LIGHTHOUSE
  By Charlie's Mamma                          114
GOING AFTER COWS By W.T.O.                    116
ROLY-POLY By Olive A. Wadsworth               119
ELSIE'S DUCKS By Ida Fay                      120
FISHING FOR TROUT By Alfred Selwyn            122
WE THREE By Bella                             124
PET, THE CANARY By Mamma                      125
THE CAT SHOW By Sallie's Mamma                126
GOING THROUGH THE CORN (Music by T. Crompton) 128

EDITOR'S PORTFOLIO.

With this number we begin on the last quarter of the year 1875; and we have the pleasure of
informing our host of readers, young and old, that the prospects of "The Nursery" were never
so encouraging as now. It has not only held its own during these hard times, but gone on increasing.
Canvassers may take hold of it with the assurance that future numbers will be improvements
even on the past.

"Playing the King," in our present number, will be a good piece for humorous declamation at
school. Both the artist and the poet have done their work well.

For the coming holidays, there will be no juvenile work equal in attraction to the "NURSERY
PRIMER," which will now soon be ready. It will be the best book for beginners ever got up.
Already we have received numerous orders for it, to which we shall soon respond.

"The Easy Book" and "The Beautiful Book" ought to be remembered by dealers ordering for the
holidays. These books have only to be seen to be appreciated. The Nursery series of books is
allowed to be the best for the purpose designed, namely, the teaching of children to read,
chiefly by their own efforts, that has ever appeared.

    THE DELIGHTS OF THE SEASIDE.

    Oh merry, merry sports had we, last summer on the beach,--
    Lucy and Oliver and I, with Uncle Sam to teach!
    At times, clad in our bathing-suits, we'd join our hands, all four,
    And rush into the water, or run along the shore.

    The wet sand, how it glistened on the sunny summer day!
    And how the waves would chase us back, as if they were in play!
    And when, on the horizon blue, a sail we would espy,
    How "Ship ahoy!" or "Whither bound?" we all of us would cry!

    The white, white sand, so smooth and hard, oh what a place for fun!
    With no one by to check our screams, or say, "Now, pray, have done!"
    The sea-birds, not at all disturbed by all our mirthful noise,
    Would cry to us, as if they said, "Shout on, shout on, my boys!"

    Sometimes we'd seek for flattened stones, and skim them o'er the waves;
    Then go where, in the piled-up rocks, the sea had hollowed caves;
    Or sit and feel the cooling breeze in silent happiness;
    Or hunt for seaweed in the clefts, and take it home to press.

    And well do I remember there a little shallow creek,
    Where we would go and sail our ships, at least three times a week:
    We loaded them with cargoes rich, and sent them all to Spain;
    And back they came with heavy freights, by which we made much gain.

    Oh! pleasant pastimes on the beach, how often I recall
    The ocean grand, the distant sails, the rocks, the lighthouse tall!
    They do not fade, these pictures bright, from memory's inner view;
    And age itself shall never dim their colors ever new.

                                                  EMILY CARTER.

MABEL AND HER FRIEND CARLO.

Mabel lives on a hill, quite near a beautiful lake, and is very fond of going with her papa
to take a row on the water. Sometimes they visit the woods on the other side of the lake, and
pick wild flowers, or go where the water-lilies grow, near the shore, and gather a bunch of
the pretty white blossoms.

But I must tell about Mabel's friend Carlo. He is a large shaggy dog, owned by a gentleman
who lives near. Although quite a young dog, he knows a great deal. He is very fond of water,
and is wild with delight at the prospect of a swim.

His master owns a large sail-boat, and, as the water near the shore is not deep, he has to
use a small boat to reach it. When Carlo sees him take down the oar from its place in the yard,
he runs up, and takes it in his mouth, as much as to say, "Let me carry that for you, master."
Then he trots down the hill with the oar, feeling very proud that he is allowed to carry it.

One day, Carlo took hold of the rope with his teeth, and drew the small boat to the shore;
so that his master, who was in it, did not have to use the oar.

Mabel loves Carlo very much; and, although he is a large dog, he knows
that he must play very gently with little boys and girls, and not hurt
them with his great paws.
                                                              NED

    PLAYING KING.

    Ho! I'm a king, a king! A crown is on my head;
    A sword is at my side; and regal is my tread:
    Ho, slave! proclaim my will to all the people round,--
    The schools are hereby closed; henceforth must fun abound.

    Vacation shall not end; all slates I order smashed;
    The man who says "arithmetic"--he must be soundly thrashed;
    All grammars shall be burnt; the spellers we will tear;
    The boy who spells correctly--a fool's cap he shall wear.

    No dolls shall be allowed, for dolls are what I hate;
    The girls must give them up, and learn to swim and skate;
    Confectioners must charge only a cent a pound
    For all the plums and candy that in the shops are found.

    That man who asks a dime for any pear or peach--
    I'll have him hung so high, that none his feet can reach;
    No baker is allowed hereafter to bake bread;
    He must bake only pies and cake and ginger-snaps instead.

    All lecturers must quit our realm without delay;
    The circus-men and clowns, on pain of death, must stay;
    All folks who frown on fun, at once must banished be:
    Now, fellow, that you know my will, to its fulfilment see!

                                        ALFRED SELWYN.

A TRUE ANTELOPE STORY.

Some time ago, I told the readers of "The Nursery" about catching a buffalo-calf. I will now
tell them about a young antelope which we caught, and another which we almost caught.

Tip and I were in that part of Western Kansas which is left blank on the maps. Two hunters,
Thompson and Hughes, had joined us; and we were coming back from a buffalo-chase. We had been
crawling lazily along, over prairie, through valley, up and down hill, since sunrise, and it
was now nearly noon.

All of a sudden, from a clump of tall grass near us, up sprung an antelope and a pair of beautiful
fawns. Like a flash, the old one and one of the fawns started over the brow of the ridge on
which they were lying; while the other little fellow began running around in a circle, as you
have seen ponies do at the circus, bleating as hard as he could.

The boys leaped from the wagons in an instant, while I remained to hold the horses. Ranging
themselves around the circle, the three hunters every now and then, dashed headlong after the
fawn as he flew past; but missed him by a rod or more every time.

Our dog Landy, also, was on hand for the fun; and it was a laughable sight to see the great
awkward fellow straining every nerve to overtake the little streak of animated lightning that
flashed before him. Landy was a Newfoundland shepherd, and I knew that nothing could induce
him to hurt the fawn if he should catch him.

While I was watching the sport, and laughing at the drollery of it, all at once I heard a stamping
on the other side of the wagon, and, stepping quickly around the horses' heads, I saw the old
doe, and a buck and doe with her.

As the fawn came bounding along the circle, the buck and does, bleating anxiously, darted in
ahead of him, rushing right by the men and dog. Never stopping an instant, the big buck led
the way, the does and fawn followed; and, before you could say "Jack Robinson," they were "over
the hills, and far away."

This was the antelope that we almost caught. The boys came back to the wagons, thoroughly fagged
out, and looking painfully silly.

Again we drove along, but had not proceeded more than a mile or two, when up sprung another
old doe, and ran toward Landy, stamping her fore-foot fiercely. Of course the foolish dog took
after her as hard as he could go,--just as she wanted him to do; and a fine chase she led him,
always taking care not to leave him so far behind as to discourage him, and make him turn back.

We knew at once by her actions that she had a fawn near there; and so, while she was leading
Landy away from it, we set about hunting it up. In a few minutes, I came across the little
slender-legged beauty, snugly curled up under a tuft of grass. As I came upon him, he dashed
out of cover with a shrill, plaintive little "baa-baa, baa-baa," and, as fawns always do in
such cases, began running in a small circle.

Landy, disgusted with his hopeless chase, came trotting back, and at once struck in after the
fawn. This one was not so fleet as the other; and by and by Landy overtook him, and tried to
stop him by pushing him over with his nose. This frightened the fawn so badly, that he made
direct for Tip, who was squatting in the long grass in wait for him, and rushed joyfully into
his arms.

We took the bright-eyed little thing into the wagon, and by night he was so tame, that he would
follow us around; and, when we lay down to sleep on the ground, I gave him a corner of my blanket
for a bed. At last we got back to Thompson's log-house, which stood near the timber; and, when
we went away we gave the fawn to his two little girls. I would really like to know what ever
became of it.

    PERRY, O.                                             LLOYD WYMAN.

     The Apple Tree.

    Up in the apple-tree
      See the rosy cheeks;
    See the balls that look like gold;
      See the crimson streaks.
    In the lovely autumn day,
    Bright as in the bloom of May,
    Filled with fruit, and fair to see,
        Is the apple-tree.

    Under the apple-tree
      See the rosy cheeks:
    Little Ginx, the baby,
      What is it he seeks?
    Ah! his tiny teeth are white,
    And are eager for a bite,--
    Such a tempting store to see
        Is the apple-tree.

    Under the apple-tree,
      Other rosy cheeks,--
    Edith, Mabel, Gold-Locks,
      Full of happy freaks.
    Here they run, and there they run,
    Shouting merrily, if one
    Fallen in the grass they see
        From the apple-tree.

                  CLARA DOTY BATES.

A COUNCIL OF HORSES.

On the large plains of South America, horses run wild in great numbers. They are caught by
means of a lasso, which is a rope with a noose at one end. This is thrown with great dexterity
over the neck of the wild horse.

The artist has called the picture which we here present "A Council of Horses." Do they not
look as if they were taking advice of one another? The white horse, with his erect neck and
head, seems to be the leader, or chief. He is willing to hear what the others may have to say;
but he means that they shall follow him, after all.

And can horses really make known their wishes to one another? It would almost seem so, though
we cannot prove it. Wild horses choose their own chiefs, and these give the signal of departure.
If any extraordinary object appears, the chief commands a halt. He goes to discover what it
is, and, after his return, gives, by neighing, the signal of confidence, of flight, or of combat.

Five sorts of neighing may be noticed: that of joyfulness, of desire, of anger, of fear, and
of sorrow. A feeling peculiar to the horse is emulation. Whoever has witnessed a horse-race
can understand the ardor, vehemence, and struggle for victory, which excite the energies of
both horses and men. The animals have often tried to hold their rivals back by the teeth. This
has been known to happen when the horses are left entirely to themselves, as on some of the
Italian race-courses, where the horses run without riders.

The horse has a strong memory. Franklin relates, that he had a horse that conducted him through
a hilly country where it was difficult to find the road. Every time Franklin himself was unable
to tell which road to take, he would leave the reins on the horse's neck, and the good beast,
left to itself, never failed to go right.

The noblest conquest that man ever made over the animal creation is that of the horse. Every
thing in him breathes out vivacity and energy. That need of continual movement, that impatience
during repose, that nervous motion of the lips, that stamping of the feet, all indicate a pressing
need of activity.

                                                      UNCLE CHARLES.

THE PET OF THE SHIP.

PART III.

One day when the ship was at anchor in one of the ports on the western coast of South America,
a number of sheep were brought on board. Whether Dennis regarded them as intruders, or not,
I cannot say; but his treatment of them was anything but kind.

The poor sheep stood in great fear of him, and fled in alarm whenever he made a charge at them.
One by one they began to disappear; and, at last, only one--a little fellow whom the sailors
afterward named Billy--was left.

He was greatly distressed when the last of his companions was taken away, and ran bleating
about the deck in search of him. To add to his troubles, that dreadful bully Dennis, who had
been watching him for some time, was now coming towards him. He was frightened nearly to death.

What must have been his delight when he saw in Dennis's eyes a look of pity, and heard his
friendly grunt! I don't know what Dennis said; but I do know, that, half an hour afterwards,
Billy had forgotten all about his troubles, and was lying down with his head resting in Dennis's
fat neck.

Even the rough sailors were pleased; and as they looked at Dennis, who was fast asleep, they
said, "Now that was a fine thing, and Dennis was the pig to do it. He was willing to fight
with a flock of sheep; but, when it came to quarrelling with one little fellow, he was too
noble for that."

Thenceforth Dennis and Billy were inseparable, and no pair ever agreed better. There were times,
however, when Dennis seemed a little vexed with Billy, though he was always as kind as possible.
I will tell you of an instance.

Billy would always watch the crowd about Dennis, when the latter was taking his bath, with
a great deal of anxiety; and, if Dennis did not appear very shortly, he would begin bleating
loudly.

This would disgust Dennis immensely; but he couldn't bear to think that Billy's feelings were
hurt: so he would leave his nice bath, and push his way through the men, until Billy could
see him. Then he would return to the pump, grunting in a manner that plainly showed his feelings.

He was certainly saying, "I do wish that sheep had a little more of the pig about him. If I
am out of his sight for a moment, he begins to cry, and take on in such a manner, that I must
show myself to him; and then I have all the trouble of making the sailors pump again."

But the sailors only waited to make Dennis beg a little. They had no idea of not pumping again.
They were always pleased when he showed so much good feeling for Billy; and generally he got
a larger allowance of water to pay for it.

I believe that Dennis was not living when the ship reached California. That ever he became
food for his sailor friends no one can imagine. Therefore his fate must remain a mystery, unless
some of my readers happen to know one of the crew of "The Vanderbilt," and can learn from him
something on the subject.

If they can, there are many, no doubt, who would be glad to hear from them in the pages of
"The Nursery." My little girls would, at least. But, probably, Dennis has more of a place in
their thoughts than he can have in those of others.

C.E.C.

THE UNMOTHERLY HEN.

Now, my dear children, if you will be very quiet, I will tell you a true story, which I sometimes
tell my little daughter Fanny and her cousin Grace, when they climb up on my knees just before
going to bed.

On a farm near Fishkill, where Fanny's Aunt Jane lives, they raise a great many chickens, turkeys,
ducks, and geese. When I was a boy, ever so many years ago, I used to have great fun hunting
for eggs through the hay and straw in the barns.

Well, last year one of the hens, instead of laying her eggs in the hen-house or barn, like
a well-mannered hen, stole off under a wood-pile, and was not seen for three weeks, when she
made her appearance with a fine brood of chickens. To keep her from straying away again, she
was put into a coop. For several days, she was a good mother to her children; but, after a
week or so, she began to act very strangely, and, when her children came near her, she would
peck and abuse them.

Would you believe it, children? in one day, this unmotherly hen had pecked all but one of her
chickens to death; and, when Aunt Jane found this poor chap, he had but one eye, and all the
toes were gone from one foot; so that he had to stand on the other. At first, Aunt Jane thought
it would be a mercy to kill the little fellow, and put him out of pain; but she finally determined
that she would try to cure him.

So she took him into the kitchen, and made him quite comfortable in a box half filled with
cotton-batting, and placed near the stove. She gave him cracked-corn to eat, and plenty of
water to drink, and, after a while, he got so strong, that he hopped out of the box, and was
just as jolly a chicken as he could be, with only one eye to see with, and only one foot and
the stump of another to walk on.

Still he would not go out and play with other chickens of his age, but persisted in hanging
around the kitchen. One morning, when Aunt Jane went into the breakfast-room, she found him
on the table, helping himself from a dish of stewed potatoes. Such impudence could no longer
be tolerated: so the saucy little cripple was banished to the barnyard to learn manners.

And what do you think became of the unmotherly hen? She lost all her friends. She was despised
and hated by everybody on the farm. She was pointed at as "that cruel, speckled hen," until
life became a burden to her. She was not permitted to have any more chickens. When the cold
weather came, she was sent to a poor woman for a thanksgiving dinner; and it is to be hoped
that all the hens in the barnyard took warning from her fate.

                                                             C.R.W.
    LANSINGBURGH. N.Y.

THE CHILDREN'S VISIT TO THE LIGHTHOUSE.

Charlie and Georgie were staying at Appledore, one of the Isles of Shoals, and, with two other
little children, had many nice times fishing and sailing.

The lighthouse is on White Island, which, as you see in the picture, is a lonely and rocky
place. It would be very dangerous for any ship to come in from sea on that part of the coast,
if it were not for the friendly warning of the brilliant light.

One warm, sunny morning, Charlie and Georgie, with their papa and mamma, and their two little
friends, rowed across from Appledore, and landed on the pebbly beach of White Island. Here
the children ran about, and picked up stones until they were tired; and then the whole party
seated themselves on some shaded rocks, and ate their lunch of crackers and bananas.

While they were eating, an old white dog, belonging to the lighthouse keeper, came up and made
their acquaintance. Georgie shared his cake with him; and it was amusing to see the old dog
watching with eager eyes every piece that went into any mouth but his own.

When lunch was over, the two older children, Charlie and Anna, led the way; and all were soon
climbing the winding stairs in the lighthouse tower. When they reached the top, they found
themselves in a small room with windows on every side, and the great lamp in the centre. The
lantern is made of red-and-white glass, and turns around, so that first a red, and then a white,
light may be seen far out at sea.

The keeper explained how, after lighting the lamp, he wound up the machinery which caused the
lamp to revolve; and told them of the lonely hours he had spent in the little room below the
lamp, while the waves dashed, and the storm beat outside.

For many weeks in the winter he lives there all by himself, and sees no one; but, in the summer
time, there is hardly a day when he does not have a boat full of visitors. He always gives
them a hearty welcome, and makes himself very agreeable. I suppose he feels as though he must
make the most of society while he can get it.

The children listened to his talk with great interest. With many thanks for his kind attentions,
they bade him "Good-by," and, intent on collecting shells on another island near, stepped into
their boat, and were rowed away, leaving the man and his friendly dog to enjoy each other's
company.

                                                     CHARLIE'S MAMMA.

GOING AFTER COWS.

When Edward was eight years old, his mother told him he might go with John, the hired man,
to drive the cows from the pasture. How happy the little boy was!

Every day he would be ready as soon as John gave the word; and off they would go, through the
woods, over hills and rocks, and gurgling brooks, wherever the ding-dong of the distant cow-bells
pointed the way.

Sometimes they had a long search before they could find all the cows; for the pasture was very
large, and the cows would wander about in every part of it, to find the best feeding-places.

On the way home, Edward would run ahead of the cows, and open the bars; and sometimes he would
sit on the wall, and pat each cow as she came through.

When the cows reached the barnyard, Edward would help milk. There was one old cow which he
called his own, and which he named Carrie. She always stood very still while being milked,
and that was one reason why he liked her better than any of the rest.

After milking, he helped John to carry in the milk, and his mother often gave him a mug full.
Oh, how nice it was!

                                                               W.T.O.

    ROLY-POLY.

    Roly-Poly is three years old,
      Three years old, and a trifle over:
    Roly-Poly is round as a ball,
      Jolly as larks, and sweet as clover.

    Roly-Poly has stars for eyes,
      A heavenly chin with a dimple in it,
    Peaches for cheeks, the bud of a nose,
      And a tongue that is never still a minute.

    Roly-Poly gets up in the morning,--
      Morning, quoth I? it's the crack of the dawn!--
    Dresses himself in a boot and a stocking,
      Flies to his sister as swift as a fawn.

    Pulls at her eyes with his fat little fingers,--
      Crazy for stories, that's all the matter!--
    "Oh! I am sleepy and cross," she cries;
      "You, Roly-Poly, disperse and scatter!"

    But Roly-Poly's a resolute tyrant;
      Father and mother are captives wholly:
    So what can a poor big sister do
      But yield to a king like Roly-Poly.

    Roly-Poly's a man of business:
      He canters to market on grandpa's cane,
    Orders a breakfast of peppermint-candy,
      And gallops his pony home again.

    Roly-Poly's a man of pleasure:
      Sorrow and care are for grown-up stupids:
    Pictures and kisses, toys and caresses,
      Fondling and fun, for dimpled Cupids.

    After the sun has gone out of the south,
      The night comes down on his eyelids slowly;
    He topples asleep with his thumb in his mouth,--
      What an iniquity, Roly-Poly!

                                 OLIVE A. WADSWORTH.

ELSIE'S DUCKS.

Elsie was the daughter of poor parents, who lived on the borders of a lake. Once, when she
was very ill with a fever, a good neighbor made her a present of three young ducks. Elsie was
much pleased, and she soon began to get well.

Her mother would bring a large tub of water into the room where the little invalid lay; and
the three ducks would swim about, and swallow the crumbs which Elsie threw to them.

As soon as she got well, she would drive the ducks down to the lake, and let them swim. They
were so tame, that they would come out of the water at her call.

Sometimes her father and the rest of the family would get into a boat, and he would row across
the lake to the opposite side, where some families lived who employed Elsie's mother to wash
clothes for them.

At these times, the three ducks would follow the boat. Perhaps they did not like to trust their
dear Elsie on the water, unless they were by to help her in case of need.

Sometimes old and young would join in a song; and then far over the lake would be heard the words:

    "Come to the sunset tree, the day is past and gone,
    The woodman's axe lies free, and the reaper's task is done."

It was a very pretty sight, on a summer evening, when the bright clouds over the setting sun
threw their tints on the water, to see the ducks swimming by the side of the little boat which
contained Elsie and the rest of the family. It was so pretty a sight, that a good artist made
a picture of the scene. We give you a copy of it here.

                                                             IDA FAY.

FISHING FOR TROUT.

The trout belongs to the salmon family. Its flesh is generally of a pale pink or yellow color.
It is one of the handsomest fish to be found in our waters. The variations of its tints are
very beautiful; and the red spots on its skin distinguish it from common fish.

I never had much luck in catching trout. One summer I went from the city to try the trout-streams
in Northern New York. I had a handsome rod, and a line nicely baited with an artificial fly;
but, though I was very persevering, my success was small.

I remember sitting for hours on the slender bridge just below the Upper Cascades of Buttermilk
Fall, represented in the picture; but my patience was not rewarded by the capture of a single
trout. I was sorry for this; for I had depended on getting one for my dinner.

As I was about retiring, a little barefoot fellow, about twelve years old, came along with
a common fishing-pole, and hook baited with a worm, and said, "Mister, I'll catch a trout for
you."--"Do it, then," said I.

He threw his line over a smooth spot in the pool below; and, before he had been at it five
minutes, he pulled up a noble trout, large enough for a good dinner. Another and another were
pulled up in quick succession. I did not know what to make of it; for I thought I had fished
in a very scientific way.

