We need suppose no linguistic impediments to intercourse. The whole world will surely have
a common language, that is quite elementarily Utopian, and since we are free of the trammels
of convincing story-telling, we may suppose that language to be sufficiently our own to understand.
Indeed, should we be in Utopia at all, if we could not talk to everyone? That accursed bar
of language, that hostile inscription in the foreigner's eyes, "deaf and dumb to you, sir,
and so--your enemy," is the very first of the defects and complications one has fled the earth
to escape.

But what sort of language would we have the world speak, if we were told the miracle of Babel
was presently to be reversed?

If I may take a daring image, a mediaeval liberty, I would suppose that in this lonely place
the Spirit of Creation spoke to us on this matter. "You are wise men," that Spirit might say--and
I, being a suspicious, touchy, over-earnest man for all my predisposition to plumpness, would
instantly scent the irony (while my companion, I fancy, might even plume himself), "and to
beget your wisdom is chiefly why the world was made. You are so good as to propose an acceleration
of that tedious multitudinous evolution upon which I am engaged. I gather, a universal tongue
would serve you there. While I sit here among these mountains--I have been filing away at them
for this last aeon or so, just to attract your hotels, you know--will you be so kind----? A
few hints----?"

Then the Spirit of Creation might transiently smile, a smile that would be like the passing
of a cloud. All the mountain wilderness about us would be radiantly lit. (You know those swift
moments, when warmth and brightness drift by, in lonely and desolate places.)

Yet, after all, why should two men be smiled into apathy by the Infinite? Here we are, with
our knobby little heads, our eyes and hands and feet and stout hearts, and if not us or ours,
still the endless multitudes about us and in our loins are to come at last to the World State
and a greater fellowship and the universal tongue. Let us to the extent of our ability, if
not answer that question, at any rate try to think ourselves within sight of the best thing
possible. That, after all, is our purpose, to imagine our best and strive for it, and it is
a worse folly and a worse sin than presumption, to abandon striving because the best of all
our bests looks mean amidst the suns.

Now you as a botanist would, I suppose, incline to something as they say, "scientific." You
wince under that most offensive epithet--and I am able to give you my intelligent sympathy--though
"pseudo-scientific" and "quasi-scientific" are worse by far for the skin. You would begin to
talk of scientific languages, of Esperanto, La Langue Bleue, New Latin, Volapuk, and Lord Lytton,
of the philosophical language of Archbishop Whateley, Lady Welby's work upon Significs and
the like. You would tell me of the remarkable precisions, the encyclopaedic quality of chemical
terminology, and at the word terminology I should insinuate a comment on that eminent American
biologist, Professor Mark Baldwin, who has carried the language biological to such heights
of expressive clearness as to be triumphantly and invincibly unreadable. (Which foreshadows
the line of my defence.)

You make your ideal clear, a scientific language you demand, without ambiguity, as precise
as mathematical formulae, and with every term in relations of exact logical consistency with
every other. It will be a language with all the inflexions of verbs and nouns regular and all
its constructions inevitable, each word clearly distinguishable from every other word in sound
as well as spelling.

That, at any rate, is the sort of thing one hears demanded, and if only because the demand
rests upon implications that reach far beyond the region of language, it is worth considering
here. It implies, indeed, almost everything that we are endeavouring to repudiate in this particular
work. It implies that the whole intellectual basis of mankind is established, that the rules
of logic, the systems of counting and measurement, the general categories and schemes of resemblance
and difference, are established for the human mind for ever--blank Comte-ism, in fact, of the
blankest description. But, indeed, the science of logic and the whole framework of philosophical
thought men have kept since the days of Plato and Aristotle, has no more essential permanence
as a final expression of the human mind, than the Scottish Longer Catechism. Amidst the welter
of modern thought, a philosophy long lost to men rises again into being, like some blind and
almost formless embryo, that must presently develop sight, and form, and power, a philosophy
in which this assumption is denied. [Footnote: The serious reader may refer at leisure to Sidgwick's
Use of Words in Reasoning (particularly), and to Bosanquet's Essentials of Logic, Bradley's
Principles of Logic, and Sigwart's Logik; the lighter minded may read and mark the temper of
Professor Case in the British Encyclopaedia, article Logic (Vol. XXX.). I have appended to
his book a rude sketch of a philosophy upon new lines, originally read by me to the Oxford
Phil. Soc. in 1903.]

All through this Utopian excursion, I must warn you, you shall feel the thrust and disturbance
of that insurgent movement. In the reiterated use of "Unique," you will, as it were, get the
gleam of its integument; in the insistence upon individuality, and the individual difference
as the significance of life, you will feel the texture of its shaping body. Nothing endures,
nothing is precise and certain (except the mind of a pedant), perfection is the mere repudiation
of that ineluctable marginal inexactitude which is the mysterious inmost quality of Being.
Being, indeed!--there is no being, but a universal becoming of individualities, and Plato turned
his back on truth when he turned towards his museum of specific ideals. Heraclitus, that lost
and misinterpreted giant, may perhaps be coming to his own....

There is no abiding thing in what we know. We change from weaker to stronger lights, and each
more powerful light pierces our hitherto opaque foundations and reveals fresh and different
opacities below. We can never foretell which of our seemingly assured fundamentals the next
change will not affect. What folly, then, to dream of mapping out our minds in however general
terms, of providing for the endless mysteries of the future a terminology and an idiom! We
follow the vein, we mine and accumulate our treasure, but who can tell which way the vein may
trend? Language is the nourishment of the thought of man, that serves only as it undergoes
metabolism, and becomes thought and lives, and in its very living passes away. You scientific
people, with your fancy of a terrible exactitude in language, of indestructible foundations
built, as that Wordsworthian doggerel on the title-page of Nature says, "for aye," are marvellously
without imagination!

