{95}  The Editor of the ‘Athenæum’ having (Nov. 8th, 1862) characterized the author’s account
of this affair as “perfectly untrue” and a “fiction,” it becomes necessary to say a few words
in explanation of it. The Editor of the ‘Athenæum’ quotes in support of his statement a passage
from Mr. Nicholas Wood, who, however does not say that the anecdote is “perfectly untrue,”
but merely that “the danger was not quite so great as is represented:” he adds that “at most
an explosion might have burnt the hands of the operator, but would not extend a few feet from
the blower.”  However that may be, we were not without good authority for making the original
statement.  The facts were verbally communicated to the author in the first place by Robert
Stephenson, to whom the chapter was afterwards read in MS., in the presence of Mr. Sopwith,
F.R.S. at Mr. Stephenson’s house in Gloucester Square, and received his entire approval.  But
at the time at which Mr. Stephenson communicated the verbal information, he also handed a little
book with his name written in it, still in the author’s possession, saying, “Read that, you
will find it all there.”  We have again referred to the little book which contains, among other
things, a pamphlet, entitled Report on the Claims of Mr. George Stephenson relative to the
Invention of his Safety Lamp.  By the Committee appointed at a Meeting holden in Newcastle,
on this 1st of November, 1817.  With an Appendix containing the Evidence.  Among the witnesses
examined were George Stephenson, Nicholas Wood, and John Moodie, and their evidence is given
in the pamphlet. We quote that of Stephenson and Moodie, which was not contradicted, but in
all material points confirmed by Wood, and was published, we believe, with his sanction. George
Stephenson said, that he tried the first lamp “in a part of the mine where the air was highly
explosive. Nicholas Wood and John Moodie were his companions when the trial was made. They
became frightened when they came within hearing of the blower, and would not go any further.
Mr. Stephenson went alone with the lamp to the mouth of the blower,” etc.  This evidence was
confirmed by John Moodie, who said the air of the place where the experiment was about to be
tried was such, that, if a lighted candle had been introduced, an explosion would have taken
place that would have been “extremely dangerous.”  “Told Stephenson it was foul, and hinted
at the danger; nevertheless, Stephenson would try the lamp, confiding in its safety. Stephenson
took the lamp and went with it into the place in which Moodie had been, and Moodie and Wood,
apprehensive of the danger, retired to a greater distance,” etc.  The other details of the
statement made in the text, are fully borne out by the published evidence, the accuracy of
which, so far as the author is aware, has never before been called in question.

{105}  The tankard bore the following inscription—“This piece of plate, purchased with a part
of the sum of £1000, a subscription raised for the remuneration of Mr. GEORGE STEPHENSON for
having discovered the fact that inflamed fire-damp will not pass through tubes and apertures
of small dimensions, and having been the first to apply that principle in the construction
of a safety-lamp calculated for the preservation of human life in situations formerly of the
greatest danger, was presented to him at a general meeting of the subscribers, Charles John
Brandling, Esq., in the Chair.  January 12th, 1818.”

{107}  The accident above referred to was described in the ‘Barnsley Times,’ a copy of which,
containing the account, Robert Stephenson forwarded to the author, with the observation that
“it is evidently written by a practical miner, and is, I think, worthy of record in my father’s
Life.”

