[Sidenote: Hugh of Lincoln.] Fo: 96. pa: 2. vppon these woordes, “O hughe of Lincolne sleyne
also, &c.” You saye, that in the 29. H. 3. eightene Jewes were broughte fro{m} Lincolne, and
hanged for crucyfyinge a childe of eight yeres olde. Whiche facte was [in] the 39. H. 3. so
that yo{u} mighte verye well haue sayed, that the same childe of eighte yeres olde was the
same hughe of Lincolne; of whiche name there were twoe, viz. thys younger Seinte Hughe, and
Seinte Hughe bishoppe of Lincolne, whiche dyed in the yere 1200, long before this litle seinte
hughe. And to prove [that] this childe of eighte yeres olde and that yonge hughe of Lincolne
were but one; I will sett downe two auctoryties out of Mathewe Paris and Walsinghame, whereof
the fyrste wryteth, that in the yere of Christe 1255, beinge the 39. of Henrye the 3, a childe
called Hughe was sleyne by the Jewes at Lyncolne, whose lamentable historye he delyvereth at
large; and further, in the yere 1256, being 40. Hen. 3, he sayeth, Dimissi sunt quieti 24 Judei
à Turri London, qui ibidem infames tenebantur compediti pro crucifixione sancti Hugonis Lincolniæ:
All whiche Thomas Walsingham, in Hypodigma Neustriæ, confirmeth; sayinge, A^o. 1255. Puer quidam
Christianus, nomine HUGO, à Judeis captus, in opprobriu{m} Christiani nominis crudelitèr est
crucifixus.

[Sidenote: “Where the sunne is in his ascensione,” a good reading.] Fo: 86. pa: 8. (Where the
sunne is in his ascensione, &c.) You will us to reade for the same,

  Ware the soone in his ascensione
  Ne fynde you not replete of humors hotte,
  For yf yt doe, &c.

But, savinge correct{i}one, the former sence is good: for these woordes: Where the sonne is
in his ascensione, must haue relat{i}one to the woordes of the verse before,

  Ye be righte colericke of complex{i}one,

and then is the sence, that she [the fair Pertelote] willed hym to purge, for that he was righte
(that is, extremelye and in the highest degree) collericke of complex{i}one, where (whiche
signyfyeth when) the sonne is in his ascent{i}one. Wherefore he must take heede, that he did
not fynde hym repleate (at that tyme of the sonnes being in his ascent{i}one) of hoote humors,
for yf he did, he sholde surelye haue one ague. And this will stand with the woordes Where
the sonne is in his ascentione, taking where for when, as yt is often vsed. But yf yo{u} mislyke
that gloosse, and will begyn one new sence, as yt is in some written copyes, and saye, Ware
the sonne in his ascentione ne fynde you not repleate, &c. yet yt cannott bee that the other
wordes, (for yf yt doo,) canne answer the same, because this pronoune relative (yt) cannot
haue relat{i}one to this worde (you) which wente before in this lyne, Ne fynde yo{u} not repleate
of humors hotte. So that yf you nowe will nedes reade ware for where, yet the other parte of
the followinge verse must nedes be, “for yf you doe,” and not “for yf yt dooe;” vnleste you
will saye that this woorde (yt) must haue relat{i}one to these woordes, (the sonne in his ascentione,)
whiche yt cannott have, those woordes goinge two lynes before, and the pronowne (you) interposed
betwene the same and that his correlative (yt.) Wherefore these woordes, (for yf yt doe,) must
nedes stande as they did before, though you will correcte “Where the sonne &c.” and saye “Ware
the sonne &c.” W{hi}che yf you will nedes haue, you must correcte the rest in this sorte:

  Ware the sonne in his ascentione
  that yt fynde you not repleat of humors hotte,
  for yf yt do, &c.

But this correct{i}one (savinge, as I sayed, correct{i}one) semeth not so good as the former texte.

[Sidenote: Kenelm slain by Queen Drida.] Fol: 86. pa: 2. Vppon these woordes, (Lo, in the lyfe
of Kenelme we reade,) you saye that Kenelme was sleyne by his sister Quenda, whiche sholde
be Quendrida; as Williame of Malmsberye and Ingulphus have. Whiche Quendrida dothe signyfye
Quene Drida; as the author of the Antiquyties of Seint Albons and of the Abbottes thereof (supposed
to be Mathewe Paris) dothe expounde yt. for that auctor, speakinge of the wyfe of Offa the
greate kinge of Mercia, (a wicked and proude womanne because she was of the stocke of Charles
the greate,) dothe saye, that she was called Drida, and being the kings wyfe was termed Quendrida,
id est, Regina Drida.

[Sidenote: Master Speight mistaketh his almanack.] Fo: 87. p: 1. Vppon these woordes of “Taurus
was fortye degrees and one,” you saye that this place ys misprinted, as well in not namynge
of the sygne, as of the misreckonynge of the degrees, that the two and twentye of Marche the
sunne is in Aries, and that but eleven degrees or thereaboutes, and hathe in all but thirtye
degrees. In whiche, in semynge to correcte the former printe (whiche in truthe deseruethe amendement,
but not in that order,) you seme to mee to erre, as farre as heauen and yerthe, in mistakinge
Chaucers meanynge and his woordes, as well for the daye of the monthe, as for the signe. for
where yo{u} suppose that Chaucere meanethe the two and twentithe daye of Marche, you mistake
yt. for although yt should be the 22 of the monthe, as the printed booke hathe; yet canne yt
not be the 22 daye of Marche, but must of necessytye be the two and twentythe of Aprille: and
so the signe Taurus trulye named. But first I must saye, the number of the dayes are misprinted,
for where yt is twentye dayes and two, yt must be (and so are my written copies) thirtye dayes
and two, whiche must be the seconde of Maye, as yo{u} shall well see by the woordes of Chaucer,
for whether yowe recken thirtye two dayes, withe the truthe, as hathe the written copye, or
xxii dayes, withe the printe: yet must yo{u} begynne to recken them from after the last of
Marche. for so dothe Chaucer, sayinge Marche was compleate, in these woordes:

  When the month in whiche the worlde began,
  That hight Marche, when God first made man,
  Was complete, and passed were also
  Since Marche byganne, &c.

Wherebye yo{u} see, that yo{u} must begynne to recken the nomber of dayes from the tyme of
marche complete; and then woulde the signe fall out to be in Taurus. Yf yo{u} holde yo{u} to
the printe (for the 22 daye after Marche, which is the 22 daye of Aprill in which the sonne
is aboute xi degrees in Taurus;) or to the written copye of thirtye two dayes, (w{hi}che is
the seconde of maye at what tyme the sonne ys also aboute some xxi degrees in Taurus;) the
signe is not misreckoned or misnamed, as yo{u} suppose. nether canne these woordes, since Marche
beganne, helpe you to recken them from the begynnynge of Marche, (as you seme to doo;) because
they muste answere and be agreable to the former wordes of Chaucer, w{hi}che sayethe M{ar}che
was complete, and, for that we shoulde not dobte thereof, he addethe also farther, And passed
were also since Marche beganne; where the worde beganne ys mysprinted for be gonne, that is,
since marche be gonne, this word begonne being put for is gonne, or gonne bye, or departed.
so that the genuyniell sence hereof is, When march was complete, and also were passed, since
march is gonne, or gonne by, or departed. for, in many olde inglishe woordes, this syllable
(be) is sett before to make yt moore signyficante and of force, as for moone we saye bemone,
for sprincled, besprincled; for dewed, bedewed, &c. as in this case for gonne ys sett downe
begonne. But although there be no misnaminge of the [Sidenote: The degrees of the signe are
misreckoned, not the signe itself.] signe; yet yt is true the degrees of the signes are misreckoned,
the error whereof grewe, because the degree of the signe, is made equall with the degree of
the sonne ascended above the Horizon, beinge at that tyme xli degrees in heighte from the Horizon.
But to remedye all this, and to correcte yt accordinge as Chaucer sett yt downe in myne and
other written copies; and that yt may stande w{i}th all mathematicall proport{i}one, whiche
Chaucer knewe and observed there, the print must be corrected after those written copies (whiche
I yet holde for sounde till I maye disprove them) having these woordes:

  when that the month in whiche the worlde beganne,
  that hight Marche, when god first made manne,
  was complete, and passed were also
  since marche begonne thirty dayes and two:
  befell that Chanteclere in all his pride,
  his seven wives walkinge him beside,
  cast vp his eyen to the bright sonne,
  that in the signe of Taurus had yronne
  Twentye degrees and one and somewhat moore;
  And knewe by kynde and by noone other loore
  That yt was pryme, and crewe with blisful steven:
  The sunne, quoth he, is clomben vp on heaven
  Fortye degrees and one, and moore, ywis, &c.

And that this shoulde be mente xxxij dayes after Marche, and the seconde of Maye, there be
manye reasons, besides those that Chaucer nameth; which are, that the sonne was not farre from
the middle of his ascent{i}one, and in the signe Taurus. ffurther, since I am now in Chantecler’s
discourse, I must speake of one woorde in the same, deservinge correct{i}one, w{hi}che I see
you overslipped; and because I thinke yo{u} knewe not what to make of yt, (as in dede by the
printinge few menne canne vnderstande yt,) I will sett downe the correct{i}one of the same;
[Sidenote: Mereturicke is a corruption of Merecenrycke, or the kingdom of Mercia.] being the
worde Mereturicke, farr corrupted for Mercenricke, in saxon Meþecenþÿke which is the kingdome
of Mercia, for so was Kenelme the sonne, and Kenulphus the father, both kinges of Mercia; the
one reignynge 36 yeres, and the other murdred by his sister Quendrida, as ys before noted.
And that yt is the kingdome of Mercia, the etymon of the woorde doth teache; for þÿk in the
saxon tonge signyfyethe a kingdome; meþcen signyfyethe markes or boundes or marches of Countryes.
So that Mercenricke is regnu{m} Merciæ, or the kingdome of Mercia, or of the boundes so called,
because almost all the other kingdoms of the saxons bounded vppon the same, and that lykewise
vppon them, since that kingdome did lye in the middle of England, and conteyned most of the
shires thereof.

[Sidenote: Pilloures of silver borne before Cardinalls.] Fo: 90. pa: 2. for pilloure you will
vs to reade Pellure, signifyinge furres. but althoughe the Clergye ware furres, and some of
them had their outwarde ornamentes thereof when they came to their service, as the Chanons
had their Grey amises; yet in this place, to shewe the proude and stately ensignes of the Clergye,
he there nameth the popes crowne, and the Cardinalls pilloures, yf I be not deceved. for euery
cardinall had, for parte of his honorable ensignes borne before hym, certein silver pillers;
as had Cardinall Wolsey, in the tyme of kinge Henrye the eighte, and Cardinall Poole, in my
memory. So that pilloure in that place is better than pellure, because pilloures were a note
of more pride and maiestye (againste whiche the Plowmanne dothe enveye in those woordes,) than
in the weringe of furres.

[Sidenote: Liketh best the old reading of “change of many manner of meates.”] Fo: 90. pa: 2.
for these wordes, with change of many manner of meates, yo{u} wolde have vs reade, They eate
of many manner of meates. Touchinge whiche, althoughe the sence stande well, yet sure Chaucer
followeth this matter in many staues together with this preposit{i}one (cu{m}, with,) and this
coniunctione (et, and;)--as, “With pride misledd the poore, and with money filled manye a male, &c.”
so he contynuethe yt still with that prepositione, “with change of many meates;” w{hi}che is
as good as the other, for euery one knoweth Chaucers meanynge to be that they eate of many
meates, when they haue change of many meates; for why sholde they haue change of meates, but
for varyetye to please the palates taste in eatynge. [Sidenote: And also the old reading of
“myters” more than one or two for the sake of the meter.] In the next staffe, (for myters moe
then one or two) you teache vs to reade, “myters they weare mo then one or two;” whiche, me
thinkethe, nedeth not. For the wearinge of their myters is included in these woordes, And myters
more then one or two. W{hi}che wordes are curteyled for the verse his cause, that the same
mighte kepe an equall proport{i}one and decorum in the verse, whiche would be lengthened one
foote or sillable moore than the other verses, yf your readinge shoulde stande. But yf yo{u}
saye, that in this and other thinges I am overstreyghte laced and to obstinatlye bente to defende
the former printed editione, in that I woulde rather allowe one imperfecte sence, and suche
as must be vnderstoode, when yt ys not fully expressed, than a playne style, I will answere
withe a grounde of the lawe, quod frustra fit per plura quod fieri potest per pauciora, and
quod subintelligitur non deest. Wherefore yt is nedelesse to make that playner by addit{i}one
of woordes, when yt maye be as well conceyved in any reasonable mens vnderstandinge without
such addit{i}one. But on these and suche petit matters, I will not nowe longe insiste, (being
things of no greate momente,) vntill I haue further examyned more written copyes to trye, whether
wee shall reade the olde texte or your newe correctione. The lordes sonne of Windsore.) Vppon
these woordes you saye, this maye seme strange bothe in respecte that yt is not in the frenche,
as also for that there was no lorde Windsore at those dayes. But yt semeth to me moore strange
that these woordes shoulde seme strange to yo{u}, not to bee in the frenche, where yo{u} shall
fynde them. For thus hathe the frenche written Romante, as maye appere in the old frenche vsed
at the tyme when the Romante was composed, in this sorte:

  Pris a Franchise lez alez
  Ne sai coment est apelles,
  Biaus est et genz, se il fust ores
  Fuiz au seign{eur} de Guindesores:

