"Seldom," replied Roque--"and when they unfortunately deceive me, I sorely feel for the deception.
I am a man of very tender feelings."

"Argus," observed his master, "was punished for his negligence, and it is meet thou shouldst
experience the same treatment, under similar circumstances."

"Aye," quoth Roque, "he was changed into a peacock--I wonder into what animal I shall be changed,
since this sort of transformation is the retribution attendant on negligent scouts--I think
the character of a jackal would suit me best, for I certainly lead the lion to his prey. But
now, Sir, leaving jesting aside, I have a little piece of serious information for your ear.
Do you know whom I saw in close converse with Don Manuel de Monteblanco when he left his house?"

"No, nor do I care."

"Don't you, indeed?--Well, it is very fortunate, for it happened to be no other than your rival,
Don Rodrigo."

"Now, Roque," cried his master jocosely, "here's a convincing proof of the failure of thy boasted
eye-sight."

"Why I really thought so at first myself, and I made the sign of the cross accordingly, but
I soon perceived it was no delusion. Now it would be pleasant, should this same Don Rodrigo
come upon an expedition similar to yours--it would seem as tho' the man was born on purpose
to thwart you."

"Well," returned Gomez Arias, with a smile--"and it would seem also that I am born to chastise
his insolence."

To this, Roque made some foolish reply; for in his capacity of gracioso,[13] he freely availed
himself of the privilege allowed him of giving utterance to every thing that came into his
head, whether to the purpose or not.

They proceeded with hasty steps towards the mansion of Monteblanco;--already they reach the
spot, and the moon that sheds a partial gleam over yonder reja,[14] developes to the sight
the outline of a female form. Gomez Arias approaches, and his penetrating glance discerns through
the darkness the figure of his Theodora--her face is decked in placid smiles, and her frame
evinces the soft flutterings of an anxious heart. The bolt of the entrance gently creeks, and
the harsh sound thrills like the strain of heavenly music to the lover's throbbing breast--the
door opens at length, and a comely matron far stricken in years welcomes the cavalier. Don
Lope is not backward in his advances; a smile of grateful recognition plays upon his lip. He
then seizes the good duenna's hand, and presses it in kind acknowledgment.

The trusty Martha showed in her dress and manner, all the outward signs of her state and condition.
An imperturbable gravity sat upon those harsh features which were never known to relax into
a smile, and in whose expression predominated a mixture of religious asperity and pride, vainly
disguised under the cloak of humility. However, Martha was far from practising the rigid austerities
her whole appearance seemed to indicate. She only assumed this outward demeanor, in the same
manner that a dastard mimics courage, the better to conceal his cowardice.

Martha was dressed in an ample habit of black woollen cloth, girded her waist with the band
of a monkish order, to which was suspended a rosary of huge black counters. A cap of the whitest
linen adorned her head, and in all the rigour of female modesty, every part of her neck up
to the chin was carefully concealed by a kerchief of the same material.

Gomez Arias rushes forwards, and the next moment finds him at the feet of his mistress. Theodora
is happy in the Elysium of love; a thousand tender emotions swell that fond bosom, where an
ardent flame burns under the cover of pure snow.--As she gazes on Gomez Arias her melting eye
is lighted up with unusual fire, and her whole frame appears gently agitated with a delicious
tremor. The smile that quivers on her lip feelingly responds to the ardent glance of her passionate
admirer, and the sudden rush of crimson that overspreads her lily cheek bespeaks the thrilling
transports of genuine love in the first stages of youthful innocence and delight. Don Lope
takes her soft yielding hand, and tenderly presses it to his bosom, he gazes fervently on her
countenance; in sweet intoxication he inhales her youthful breath. Caressingly his arm encircles
her sylphic waist. She gently inclines her head towards him, and both seemed overshadowed by
the long beautiful tresses which float in wild luxuriance. From Don Lope's flashing eye the
innocent Theodora drinks large draughts of sweet but deadly poison; a tear of tenderness starts
to overwhelm her eye and falls on the lover's hand; a deep sigh escapes her bosom, and they
meet in a fervent embrace. Happy!--thrice happy moments!--dear to the genuine sensibility of
humanity, dearly cherished and oft alas! but too dearly purchased! Few words the lovers spoke,
for when the heart is replete with rapture, there is an eloquence in silence far above the
cold trammels of language. Gomez Arias forgot the dream of future ambition in the reality of
present bliss. He was loved, loved passionately by one who was the most perfect pattern of
innocence and beauty; loved more than he thought it was in the nature of woman to love. Hope
assured its brightest colours, and Don Lope anticipated all the transports of delight possible
for man to enjoy. He was supremely happy in expectation; for the expectation of bliss is perhaps
even more gratifying than the reality. Thus the rose in its opening bloom, is sweeter than
when its charms are expanded to the sight, for the hour of maturity is but the signal of decay.
Alas! we eagerly follow the sparkling joy, snatch it with enthusiasm, and it withers in the grasp!

Time sped; yet the lovers still remained as if entranced in a delightful reverie of love, in
the mutual interchange of soft sighs and eloquent glances, when suddenly the door burst open,
and Roque rushed in with visible emotion. The faithful Argus came to announce the near approach
of Monteblanco and his guest, Don Rodrigo. Gomez Arias, however, could not believe the danger
to be so imminent, making due allowance for the valet's timorous disposition; but the good
duenna, who had been unpleasantly disturbed at her devotions, now came forward to confirm the
fearful intelligence.

Though these unpleasant interruptions are far from being of novel occurrence in the annals
of love, and though Gomez Arias was familiarized with their danger, yet when he looked on the
duenna's countenance, that faithful thermometer of intrigue, he could not but perceive the
impending storm to be more than usually alarming. Deeper wrinkles furrowed her sallow visage;
her eye was haggard, and the rosary shook in her withered hand.

"Holy Virgin! I am lost," exclaimed the affrighted dame. "Ah! Don Lope, this comes of my tender-hearted,
complying disposition; there's my reputation sullied with a stain that not all the holy water
in Spain will be able to wash away!"

"But, surely," observed Gomez Arias, "the danger is not so imminent as to preclude my escape."

"Escape!" quoth the duenna; "it is impossible; they are at this moment on the stairs."

"Villain!" cried Don Lope, turning fiercely to Roque, "is this the way you do your duty?"

Roque very prudently kept aloof from the contact of his master's hand; and, as if anticipating
an explosion, began to stammer forth his excuses. Theodora's countenance was suddenly overspread
with a deadly paleness, and the timid girl wrung her hands in an attitude of despair. Her critical
situation, and the duenna's alarm, at first staggered Gomez Arias, but with the start of resolution
which immediate danger inspires, he assumed a mastery over his emotion, and instantly bethought
himself of an expedient to ward off the threatened discovery.

"If Don Rodrigo arrives with Monteblanco," said he, "we are safe; we shall have nothing to fear."

"Nothing to fear!" echoed Roque. "Methinks the danger is doubled when a man has two enemies
to encounter, instead of one."

"Silence, fool!" cried his master. "Martha, be calm; affect not to know me; make free use of
the organ with which nature has so liberally endowed you, and do not spare your reproaches
and abuse. Theodora, keep up your spirits. Roque, be silent, you rascal."

The door opens--Monteblanco and Don Rodrigo enter, but are fixed to the ground in mute amazement
at the group that presents itself to their view. The duenna had summoned the courage of despair,
and was overwhelming Gomez Arias with a torrent of abuse. Theodora had receded from the light
to hide her emotion from her father's sight, which fortunately was so impaired with age, as
not to afford any material impediment to her concealment. Roque assumed an air of saucy assurance,
and his master appeared leaning against the wall with the most perfect coolness and self-possession.
Don Manuel and his guest stared at the intruders for some time, before either attempted to
speak, till at length Don Rodrigo broke silence, with an ejaculation of surprise.

"Don Lope Gomez Arias!" exclaimed the astonished cavalier.

"Don Lope Gomez Arias!" re-echoed Monteblanco. "It is your rival, then.--What is the meaning
of this, Martha?"

"Your honor may ask the gentleman himself," responded the duenna; "I know nothing of him, but
that he is the most daring and impertinent man"--(Martha indulged in the privilege granted
her by Don Lope); "the most unceremonious, head-strong, self-sufficient cavalier I ever met
with--Virgen Santa!--What a disturbance he has raised in the house. Then there's that most
impudent rascal of a valet; he is the principal cause of the commotion, and I humbly crave
and hope your honor will give him ample reason to repent his impudence."

"Repent my impudence!" quoth Roque, "thou accursed bruja;[15] it would be more meritorious
to chop off thy slanderous tongue!"

Here the duenna proceeded to pour forth a fresh volley of words, without any positive explanation,
as is generally the practice when people are anxious to gain time, and collect their senses.

"Peace, woman!" interrupted Gomez Arias, in the middle of her harangue; "this disturbance,
as you term it, is of your own doing; had you behaved with more courtesy to a stranger, you
might have saved the impropriety my valet has been guilty of towards you; an impropriety for
which he shall most assuredly suffer in due time."--Here he cast a terrible look on the astonished
Roque, who perfectly well knew he was doomed to suffer for his master's vagaries; and that
the failure of his adventures must recoil invariably on his unfortunate head. Yet he looked
sorely puzzled how to find out the nature of the impropriety he had committed against the superannuated
dame who dealt him such abundance of vilipendiary epithets.

All this time the good Don Manuel was patiently waiting for an explanation, and the more the
duenna explained the more perplexed he found himself.

Gomez Arias at last, after several fruitless endeavours to stop Martha's tongue, availed himself
of a momentary pause she made to take breath.--"Don Manuel de Monteblanco," said he, "is undoubtedly
anxious to learn the object of my visit to his house."

"Visit!" exclaimed the duenna. "Intrusion--a downright taking by storm.--God bless me! a visit
you call it--- a visit!"

"Silence, Martha, silence; let the gentleman proceed," cried Don Manuel, a little more composed,
and feeling an inward dread at the matron's explanatory talents.

"Don Manuel," continued Gomez Arias, "I am exceedingly concerned for the confusion created
in the mansion of so honorable a cavalier; but certainly I am not so greatly to blame as that
good woman wishes to imply."

"Good woman, indeed!" ejaculated the duenna. "Jesus me valga! that I should live to be so called--soy
Cristiana vieja[16]--and of as good a family as needs be.--No Jewish puddle in my veins.--Good
woman, forsooth! My dear master, am I to be called a good woman?"

Don Manuel looked very grave, not so much perhaps at the difficulty of resolving the question,
as at the probability of never obtaining a knowledge of the business so long as the duenna
had the free use of her tongue; to quiet therefore her anger, the complaisant old cavalier
kindly soothed her apparently wounded feelings, by allowing that she by no means deserved the
appellation.

Silence being thus restored, Gomez Arias continued: "The cause of my apparent intrusion is
simply this:--informed by my servant that Don Rodrigo de Cespedes was in active search after
me, and not wishing to be backward in acknowledging the favor, I thought it incumbent on my
honor to facilitate a meeting with the utmost expedition. I repaired to this house, from whence
my servant had seen that gentleman issue, but before the nature of my business could be disclosed,
that rigid dame assailed me with a tremendous storm of abuse, when my valet, in his zeal to
serve me, or rather indulging in a propensity to retaliate, retorted the lady's freedom of
tongue with rather too much acrimony."

"Now," thought Roque, "it is really too bad to accuse me of acrimony when I have not opened
my lips."

"I attempted an explanation," continued Gomez Arias, "in the hopes of meeting with a more courteous
reception, when this young lady made her appearance (turning to Theodora). I was then about
to acquaint her with my intention, when fortunately the object of my search presents himself
in person, a circumstance which I hail with the more pleasure, as I am assured that Don Rodrigo
is particularly anxious we should renew an old interchange of tokens of our mutual regard."

"Señor Don Lope Gomez Arias," replied Don Rodrigo, sorely incensed at the tone of levity in
which he was addressed by his rival, "I likewise congratulate myself in thus accidentally meeting
with Don Lope sooner than I was led to expect, and though the mock courtesy of his style plainly
indicates the reliance he places on the constant good fortune that protects him, yet he shall
find me more solicitous than ever for the immediate interchange of the tokens to which he so
facetiously alludes."

"Señor Don Rodrigo de Cespedes," returned Gomez Arias, "I cannot but greatly admire that laudable
ambition which stimulates you to deeds of noble daring, and an unworthy individual like myself
cannot feel sufficiently grateful for the honor you wish to confer upon him."

These words and the sarcastic sneer that accompanied them, exasperated Don Rodrigo to such
a degree, that turning to his rival, he pointed to the door, and without further reply intimated
to him to follow. Gomez Arias was about to comply, when Monteblanco interposing, exclaimed,

"Forbear, caballeros, forbear; this is my house, and though I am far from desiring to withhold
any gentlemen from the calls of honor, yet let it not be said that my mansion was made a scene
of violence and bloodshed."

"Valgame Dios!" cried Roque, "Don Manuel speaks like an oracle. Nor do I think myself, this
hour of night the most fit to decide such important matters. Broad day-light is certainly preferable
to the glimmer of the moon and stars, for business like this."

Theodora was ready to sink with emotion and fear, but the very imminence of the danger inspired
her with a sort of desperate tranquillity. She knew that her interposition would only increase
the perplexities of her situation, without preventing the accomplishment of their design. Besides,
she placed much confidence in her lover's courage and superior skill in the management of arms,
and ultimately she possessed that nobleness of mind that shrinks from the imputation of cowardice
in the object of its admiration.

Monteblanco's remonstrances were vain. Don Rodrigo rushed to the door with desperate haste,
and Gomez Arias followed with the coolness of one to whom such scenes were familiar.

"Follow me," cried Don Rodrigo, as he bounded down the stairs with fearful alacrity.

"Stay, Don Rodrigo," said Gomez Arias, sarcastically, "not such precipitation, or you may perchance
fall before your time."

This provoking sarcasm entirely overthrew the little remaining temper which Don Rodrigo possessed.
His eyes flashed fire, his whole frame shook, and unable to restrain himself any longer, he
furiously drew his sword, and fixed on the Zaguan[17] for the field of action.

"Defend yourself, Don Lope," exclaimed he, with frenzied rage.

"Look to yourself, fair Sir," returned Don Lope, as, unsheathing his rapier, he calmly placed
himself in a posture of defence.

With impetuous fury Don Rodrigo darted on his antagonist, and commenced an assault with all
the courage and address of a practised swordsman. Thrust succeeded thrust with mortal rapidity,
but the active eye of Gomez Arias foiled their deadly aim with consummate skill and dexterity.
A demoniac spirit seemed to agitate Don Rodrigo, and he continued for some minutes wasting
his strength in the fruitless attack, and impairing his own means of resistance. The combat
was too fierce to be of long duration, and a few moments would have brought it to a mortal
issue (for Don Lope was now in his turn about to press hard his weakened adversary), had not
Roque, in that tenderness of conscience for which he was so noted, very adroitly extinguished
the light that hung in the Zaguan, as the most effectual way of suspending hostilities.

The place was thus plunged in utter darkness, and Don Rodrigo, afraid of being disappointed
in his revenge, called out to Gomez Arias.

"I am here," replied Don Lope; "I am here, Don Rodrigo; the light is superfluous; we shall
do perfectly well without it, for a mutual sympathy will lead our weapons aright."

The swords again met, and short, quick sparks of light, like the fugitive flash of a summer's
exhalation, gave a momentary glimpse of the combatants' fearful countenances--then a dismal
groan is heard, a body falls heavily on the ground, and a shriek of horror burst from the household,
who had crowded round the entrance of the Zaguan.

"He is dead," muttered Don Rodrigo to himself, and sought for safety with the swiftness of
lightning.

"Bring torches," cried Monteblanco; "let us afford the fallen caballero all the assistance
in our power."

The state of Theodora baffles all description. Ignorant as yet who was the victim, her soul
was harrowed up with the most fearful apprehensions, the reality of which would dash the cup
of happiness from her lips, and embitter her future existence. This petrifying, this heart-rending
suspense was happily but of short continuance. Theodora herself, with breathless anxiety, was
the first to bring a torch, that might perhaps illume the pale ghastly features of him on whom
she had centered all her felicity. The moment was awful, when the torch throwing a broad glare
around the Zaguan, discovered Gomez Arias, tranquil and erect, in all the assurance of perfect
safety. A faint scream escaped from the bosom of his mistress, for all the feelings which horrifying
suspense had held imprisoned there, now sought relief in a tumult of sighs and tears. Her emotion,
however, was scarcely noticed by her father, too much occupied at the time in ascertaining
which was the fallen cavalier.

"Don Rodrigo is then the victim," sorrowfully exclaimed the old cavalier, casting his eyes
around; for at this moment he spied a human body, lying in a dark corner of the Zaguan.

"It moves--it moves!" cried Martha, crossing herself.

"Then he is yet alive," returned Don Manuel; "let us hasten to succour the unfortunate young
man; look to his wounds!"

"Aye," responded the duenna; "let us rather attend to his soul, and behave like true charitable
Christians; run, Cacho, run, and call Fray Bernardo, or Fray Benito--no matter whom--any friar
will do at such a moment."

Monteblanco and all his attendants hurried to the spot in their eagerness to render assistance
to the fallen Don Rodrigo, when, lo! the body with a sudden spring bounds on its legs, and
to the astonished eyes of every one discovers the person of Roque.

"What's this? Where is Don Rodrigo?" interrogated Monteblanco.

"Why," answered Roque, very unconcernedly; "some fifty leagues from hence, I should imagine,
by his hurry to get away."

"Then he is not dead?"

"Not that I know of."

"Whence came that groan?"

"De este humilde pecador."[18]

"Jesus Maria," ejaculated the duenna; "how dare this judio[19] throw a noble family into consternation?"

"Now, Señora duenna," quoth the valet, "I rather think I have been instrumental in preventing
the noble family from being thrown into that consternation."

"Roque," interposed here Gomez Arias, "thou art not wounded I perceive."

"No, thank God!" replied Roque.

"Then thou art a rascal."

"A rascal because I am not wounded! Good Heaven! here's a consequence with a vengeance!"

"This is an impudent interference," continued Don Lope, "and dearly shalt thou rue it."

"An impudent interference do you call it? A marvellous good one, in sooth, for I have saved
the fruitless effusion of noble Christian blood, and I have separated two enraged combatants
better than a whole posse of alguazils: and now, all the reward I am likely to obtain for such
an important service, is threats and abuse. Here is my dear master sorely exasperated, because
I have a greater regard for his safety than he has himself, and quite disappointed at not being
run through the body by that sanguinary Don Rodrigo."

"Basta, basta," said angrily Don Lope;--then in a gentler tone he continued, "I am really concerned
for Don Rodrigo,--full of anxiety for my supposed death, I venture to say he is now flying
from the abode of man, to seek a shelter in the wilderness of the Alpujarras.

"It is very Christian-like in you, Señor," interposed Roque, "to show so much solicitude for
the fate of Don Rodrigo. Well, the ways of honorable gentlemen are to me unaccountable. Here
was my honorable master, but a short while since, eagerly seeking the life of Don Rodrigo at
the point of his rapier, and now he is equally anxious that his adversary should not be exposed
to the inconvenience of a nocturnal ramble into the mountains of Alpujarras."

Monteblanco could not but inwardly congratulate himself upon the fortunate termination of an
adventure which threatened such serious results; for he by no means liked the idea of having
a corpse in his house, with all the unpleasant appendages necessarily attendant on such an
inmate. He certainly felt concerned for the safety and comfort of Don Rodrigo, but he very
judiciously opined it was better his dear friend should suffer the inconvenience of passing
a night in the mountains, than that he himself should be exposed to the unpleasant consequences
which would inevitably attend a fatal result to either party, especially had the event occurred
in his own Zaguan; for he would be thus compelled to take a part in the drama, with which he
would very willingly dispense--that of explaining the catastrophe to the officers of justice.
This consideration induced him to approve in his own mind the stratagem of Roque, although
he would by no means audibly testify his approbation, thinking very properly that the conduct
of inferiors and dependants should never be lauded, even when they are most successful in their
services.

Acting upon this charitable principle, he would on no account interfere to prevent the taunts
and abuse with which the luckless valet was assailed on all sides. Thus poor Roque had a fresh
opportunity of discovering the little a man is likely to gain by following the impulse of a
good heart, and the very extraordinary way men have of acknowledging a service, even when they
are internally well pleased therewith.

"Begone, thou graceless dog!" exclaimed Don Manuel. "Thy impertinence justly deserves most
exemplary punishment from thy master."

Saying this, he took his daughter by the hand, made a slight bow to Gomez Arias, and was about
to retire, when Don Lope stept forward as though he wished to detain him.

"Stay, Don Manuel," said he; "I cannot leave your house, without again expressing my regret
for the disturbance I have caused. I sincerely offer you my apologies as an honorable cavalier,
and as such I am confident Don Manuel de Monteblanco will accept them. Moreover, I shall make
all the atonement in my power; and as it is obvious that my servant is the primary cause of
all the mischief, you may rest assured, Sir, the culprit shall not escape without condign and
adequate punishment."

Don Manuel expressed himself perfectly satisfied with the apology of Gomez Arias, and most
graciously accepted the atonement proposed; then making another bow, not quite so slight as
the former, left the Zaguan accompanied by his beautiful daughter, who had already caught the
eloquent parting look of her lover, and treasured in her bosom all the tender sentiments it
conveyed.

Meantime, Don Lope, well contented with himself, haughtily called to poor Roque--the faithful
valet was in a moment ready to lead the way. His master then very composedly returned to his
apartments to muse over the adventures of the evening, and form plans for the successful accomplishment
of his ulterior projects.

CHAPTER VII.

    Pariome a drede mi Madre
    Oxala no me pariera!--

                      Quevedo.

    No ill luck stirring, but what lights on my shoulders.

                                    Shakespeare.

"Better be born fortunate than rich," says an old proverb, and the correctness of this saying
was fully exemplified in the life of Don Rodrigo de Cespedes. Indeed, his whole existence had
been a series of mischances and unfortunate results; and he appeared especially reserved as
a proper subject on whom the fickle goddess might exercise her caprice at leisure.

Why Don Rodrigo should belong to this class, is more than can well be resolved, for he was
possessed of all those qualifications which are calculated to render a man brilliant in society,
and amiable in private life. He enjoyed the advantages of birth and wealth; handsome in his
person, and elegant in his address. A brave soldier in war, and a courteous cavalier in peace,
it appeared natural that his fortune should be prosperous, and yet all those endowments availed
him not. On the contrary, they only served to render the ill success of his undertakings the
more remarkable.

These anomalies cannot be accounted for on any rational principle; but may perhaps be attributed
to the absence of that requisite qualification, which sometimes serves a man in lieu of birth
or fortune, and not unfrequently goes further than both these advantages;--it is that most
enviable requisite, known under the appropriate, though somewhat vulgar, denomination of good-luck.

Don Rodrigo had paid his addresses to three different ladies, with the moral and highly creditable
intention of entering the holy state of matrimony. Perhaps in strict justice it must be confessed,
this idea crossed his mind after having completely failed in his attempts to signalize himself
as un homme à bonnes fortunes, a sort of ambition which, if not praise-worthy in itself, is
nevertheless, when successfully pursued, conducive to the eclat of a man of rank, as well as
gratifying to his vanity. Indeed it may be rather suspected, without any great affectation
of discernment, that the unlucky Don Rodrigo bethought himself of marriage as a last resource,
when ultimately convinced of his inability to succeed in his career of gallantry. But even
in this instance, that unrelenting fatality which constantly followed him, could not be persuaded
to spare him even in consideration of hymen.

Don Rodrigo had first for a rival a man whose stature was rather under than over four feet,
whose features were of the most forbidding kind; his person distorted, and his fortune by no
means superior to that of the Don; yet with all these disadvantages, this little monster, to
the astonishment of every one, carried off the fair prize.

He next placed his affections on a lady of more humble pretensions, his inferior both in birth
and fortune, and by no means remarkable for beauty. Don Rodrigo fondly imagined that his rank
and affluence would insure him success; nor did he overlook the advantages nature had given
him in a pair of fine eyes, an aquiline nose, well proportioned limbs, a carriage that shewed
off these qualifications to advantage, and a degree of personal courage that even his rivals
and enemies respected; but his Angelica must have been an admirer of the opposite qualities,
as she chose for her husband an obscure plebeian, whom the very sight of a Toledo steel threw
into an ague. Disgusted with the bad taste and vulgarity of those he had already courted, he
boldly resolved to prefer his suit to the very first lady in the land. He accordingly laid
siege to the heart of Leonor, but here his pretensions met with as decided a repulse as before,
and though his vanity could not have been wounded by having Gomez Arias for his fortunate rival,
yet, soured by his repeated crosses, he determined, if he could not by gentle means succeed
in his object, to kill his rival or fall in the attempt: his success in this last exploit the
reader will perhaps remember.

Nor was the ill-luck of Don Rodrigo confined to his amours; it extended to all his affairs.
If he engaged in a duel, a wound was generally the result; or if he escaped unhurt, though
he might have been the injured party, yet by some fatality he was sure to be accounted the
aggressor. If he happened to say a good thing, it was invariably attributed to another person,
while, if a piece of scurrility or a foolish remark circulated, he never failed to have the
whole merit to himself.

We need not, however, go further for instances to exemplify the ill-luck that constantly attended
Don Rodrigo. We see him at present a prey to his evil genius. He left the Zaguan of Monteblanco's
dwelling with the utmost precipitation. Impressed with the idea that he had killed his rival;
and, fully sensible of the necessity of speedy flight, he hurried to the inn for his horse
and valet, anxious to put in practice his prudential resolution, before any impediment could
be thrown in his way. On his arrival he asked for his man Peregil; but Peregil, as if on purpose
to perplex him, was gone to evening prayers, which Don Rodrigo very naturally interpreted,
to the tavern. So he sent a boy there, with instructions where he was to meet him out of the
town. He then hastened to the stable, but found, to his unspeakable mortification, that Peregil,
in his abundant care, had taken the key. Time being precious, Don Rodrigo, afraid of causing
a disturbance, was fain to avail himself of the benefit of an ill-favoured looking mule that
stood ready saddled in an outhouse. He doubted not that Peregil would bring his horse after
him, and render compensation for the mule, which indeed, from the miserable appearance of the
beast, would be no difficult matter.

Accordingly, after making his way to the place appointed, he waited two whole hours in a state
of extreme anxiety and suspense, alarmed at every noise lest it should be a pursuit, and only
consoling himself with the idea, that when his horse should arrive he could soon place himself
out of the reach of danger.

At length he descried his valet advancing at a most leisurely pace, not mounted on his own
strong horse, and leading a beautiful Arabian, but bestriding a miserable jackass, which required
constant application of the whip. Of this Peregil was by no means sparing, to induce him to
move at even the slowest pace a jackass is capable of travelling.

"Peregil, thou imp of Satan, where is my horse?" impatiently demanded Don Rodrigo.

"At the inn," sullenly answered the valet.

"At the inn, thou rascal! why didst thou not bring it, knowing, as you ought, that my life
is in jeopardy?"

"For a very good reason," replied Peregil, "because they would not let me. You need only blame
yourself, Señor, for since your honor scruples not to make free with the reverend friar's mule,
you ought not to be surprised if his reverence takes the same liberty with your horse."

"By Santiago de Compostela,[20] this is past bearing," cried Don Rodrigo. "How can the rogue
of a friar conscientiously take my beautiful Arabian for this worthless mule? What! has the
man of God no conscience?"

"I did not inquire that, Señor, but I rather think he is not overburthened by the manner he
has dealt with me.--Oh! if I could catch his reverence by himself, I would so belabour his
shaven skull, as not to leave it in want of razors for the future."

"Well, but how comest thou by that contemptible jackass?" demanded Don Rodrigo, angrily.

"Gently, Señor, gently; since the master shows such a predilection for mules, it is not to
be wondered if the valet evinces a similar taste for jackasses."

"Villain! darest thou jest at this time and on such a subject?"

"Aye, 'tis no laughing matter, sure enough," quoth Peregil; "and in sooth I cannot perceive
why I should be facetious on the occasion, for after all I am the greater loser of the two.
Look for a moment at this vile beast! May the lightning of heaven and the curses of all the
saints fall on him and his former master too;" and so saying he again belaboured the sides
of the unfortunate jackass, regretting that its former master was not near enough to benefit
by the energetic blows he so liberally dealt out.

"A truce, fellow, with thy profane foolery," said Don Rodrigo; "it is not seemly when the life
of thy master is at stake. Prepare to give me a full and circumstantial account of this iniquitous
business, or by my sword thou shalt severely rue the day thy master first bestrode a mule."

"Alack a-day," submissively rejoined the valet.--"You must know, Don Rodrigo, that the mule
is the cause of all this. When I returned from church I was startled to see the inn thrown
into the greatest confusion. The reverend fat friar was running round the place bellowing like
a bull, calling for his noble mule, and vowing vengeance on the profane thief, which unseemly
appellation he was pleased to bestow upon your honor."

"The friar must have been drunk," said Don Rodrigo, sneeringly; "why! did he not perceive that
I had left my steed in the stable, which I think was sufficient security, till you could pay
him the value of his beggarly mule!"

"Sure enough he did perceive it, but when I proposed to pay him for his loss, he demanded such
an exorbitant price that it was out of my power to comply therewith. In his opinion, the steed
was no adequate compensation for his mule; so to make matters even, and adjust the affair amicably,
he proposed that I should give up my horse into the bargain, and then take this abominable
ass as a present."

Peregil accompanied the epithet with another donation of his wonted favors.

"Thou miserable sinner," said Don Rodrigo, "how couldst thou consent to this nefarious arrangement?"

"Because I could not help it. Think you, Señor mio, I would have agreed to such an extortion
had it been in my power to avoid it? But your precipitate flight gave me to understand that
you had killed your adversary. Any delay in the town might have been attended with danger,
backed as his reverence was by all the rabble of the inn."

Don Rodrigo was sensible of the force of this argument, and after bestowing sundry anathemas
on the cheating friar and the inn, in which he was zealously joined by Peregil, he said in
a melancholy tone, "Well, as there is no remedy, we must put up with this misfortune as well
as we can."

"So we must, Señor," replied Peregil; "and at least there is some consolation in the reflection
that we are already on such familiar terms with dame Fortune, that this new instance of her
good-will ought by no means to take us by surprise.--But may I ask whither we are going?"

"To seek refuge in the mountains," gloomily answered Don Rodrigo.

"Well, may the help of God be with us!" ejaculated Peregil, "for we stand marvellously in need
of it."

Saying this, they bent their course to the Alpujarras, as melancholy and slowly as suited the
condition and convenience of the animals that bore them. Indeed, from time to time, the reverend
mule actually stood still, as if pondering what he should do, and it required all Don Rodrigo's
caresses (for he dared employ no other means) to induce her to proceed.

Thus the distressed master and his humble valet continued their march, for the space of three
hours, in a most gloomy night. Observing at length that his servant made a dead stop, Don Rodrigo
determined to assist him, and accordingly indicated his intention to the mule; but to his utter
dismay he found that she had profited by the good example set by her companion the ass, and
stood stone still. This obstinacy of their animals proved more than equal to the powers of
Don Rodrigo and his man, who, after exhausting their strength in fruitless chastisement, prudently
resolved to wait the leisure of their more determined companions. They took shelter, therefore,
under the spreading branches of a large tree, and there they remained in anxious expectation
of day-break, passing the tedious hours in silent and profound reflections on their miserable
condition.

CHAPTER VIII.

    O gran contrasto in giovenil pensiero,
    Desir di laude ed impeto d'Amore;
    Nè chi più vaglia ancor si trova il vero,
    Che resta or questo, or quello superiore.

                                Ariosto.

    At first a vague suspicion, a blind dread,
    Then a quick feeling of the fatal truth
    Instinctive flashed across her mind.

                                Wiffin's Tasso.

The first rosy tints of morning at length began to appear, and the heavy clouds of night were
gradually rolling away before the splendour of the approaching sun, when Don Manuel de Monteblanco,
who was already on the alert, received information that a party of horsemen were rapidly approaching
the mansion. The old cavalier hastened to a spot whence he could descry his visitors, and form
a judgment of their quality. The party consisted of an armed knight, and about half a dozen
men-at-arms, bounding over the elastic turf, with the greatest buoyancy of spirits. Don Manuel,
who stood watching their advance, was soon able to recognize, in the martial figure and gallant
carriage of the knight, his young friend and kinsman, Don Antonio de Leyva, of whose arrival
he had been in daily expectation. The youthful warrior was clad in a suit of polished steel
armour, inlaid with silver; a quantity of massy and waving red plumage almost overshaded his
shining helmet, and threw a crimson flush over his manly countenance, in which an expression
of resolute courage was blended with an air of gaiety and frankness. The colour of his cheek
was heightened by exercise, and the brilliancy of his dark blue eyes expressed an unusual degree
of animation, whilst his blooming age and the gracefulness of his carriage tended to increase
the interest of his commanding appearance. He was mounted on a fiery and slender barb, decorated
with the most costly trappings, which appeared to participate in the buoyancy of the rider;
for he champed the bit and shook off the white foam, requiring all the dexterity of his master
to restrain the impetuosity of his nature.

The small party which accompanied the youthful warrior were arrayed in the military costume
of the period. They served Don Antonio as an escort, and belonged to the body of which he was
the leader. Upon their arrival the massy doors of the mansion were thrown open, and the venerable
Monteblanco stood at the entrance ready to receive his noble visitor. The next moment Don Antonio,
springing from his steed, threw himself into the arms that hospitably invited him to their embrace.

"Welcome, Don Antonio, thrice welcome to the abode of your old friend and kinsman."

"Save you, noble Don Manuel; it rejoices me to see that the hand of time has made so little
impression upon you; your spirits are still young and ardent. How does the fair Theodora?"

"Blooming as the rose of summer, fair as the lily of the valley, and blithesome as the free
tenant of the air," replied the fond father; "but come in," he continued, with joyful accents;
"come and refresh yourself. Pedro," he then added, turning to his major-domo, a long, thin,
grave looking personage, "mind that these cavaliers," pointing to Don Antonio's attendants,
"are well entertained."

Then taking his relative by the hand, he led him into the mansion.

"Theodora," he then resumed, "is as yet at her morning orisons, in the company of good Martha,
but on an occasion like the present, there would be no great sin in shortening her devotions."

"By no means," replied Don Antonio, smiling; "it is not my maxim to disturb fair ladies when
so laudably occupied."

"Well, my young friend, as you please; but, good heavens!" continued he, surveying his guest
from head to foot, with much complacency, "how you are altered! It is a goodly and consoling
sight to see the improvement a few years bestow on a young man. You have distinguished yourself
at the games," said Don Manuel; "this is a source of unspeakable joy to me, the more so, as
it appears that the queen has been pleased to reward your merit. I have heard that you are
entrusted with the command of a party of those gallant men, that are destined to chastise the
rebellious Moors of the Alpujarras."

"In truth," modestly answered Don Antonio, "our great queen has condescended to honor me far
above my deserts; but I trust that my future conduct will make me worthy of the confidence
she has reposed in me."

"I suppose, then," said Don Manuel, "that your stay at Guadix will be but short?"

"Very short; as I am only allowed to wait the arrival of my party, and must then set off immediately
to join the army under the command of the noble Aguilar."

"Then, my dear kinsman," observed Monteblanco, smiling, "the object of your visit must be accomplished
without further delay."

"I shall never complain of too much expedition when the happiness of my life is so intimately
concerned."

At this moment the door of the saloon was thrown open, and Theodora was ceremoniously ushered
in by the stately duenna, who, after making a stiff and formal courtsey, sunk back, and kept
a respectful distance.

"Dear child," said Don Manuel, "here is your kinsman, Don Antonio de Leyva, with whom you are
already acquainted. He appears in our house as best becomes a gallant knight; his brow adorned
with the wreath of triumph for the skill and prowess he has displayed in the games, a sure
omen of his future glory in the field."

Theodora offered her hand to the salutation of her kinsman, with an attempt at cordiality;
but it was evidently an effort to hide the real coldness she felt; for an involuntary tremor
crept gradually over her, and her countenance betrayed strong symptoms of emotion, as she began
to suspect the object of Don Antonio's visit. Indeed, the tone of ease and affection, in which
her father and young de Leyva conversed, tended to confirm those suspicions, the truth of which
she so much dreaded to learn.

As soon as Don Antonio withdrew, Monteblanco requested to speak with his daughter in his apartment.
The trembling girl obeyed with a faltering step, looking like a criminal about to receive the
sentence that is to seal her fate. The duenna remained somewhat surprised at this mysterious
transaction, in which her family counsel and approbation had been so unceremoniously dispensed
with. Her pride was mortified; in high dudgeon, she crossed herself with fervour; and then
departed, muttering something between a prayer and a malediction.

A short time after, the conference broke up, and Theodora came forth, her eyes swimming in
tears, and evincing the most lively emotion. She hied to her own chamber, and fastening the
door, she gave a free vent to her grief.

"Alas!" she exclaimed, "the dreadful suspicion is confirmed, and the resolute manner in which
my father has enforced his commands, affords me no room to hope for any alteration--any delay.
Not a month--not even a week is allowed me to prepare--the measure of my misfortune is full--Lost!
lost!--Oh! Lope! Lope!----"

She could proceed no further; the tumult of sorrow impeded her utterance, and she gave loose
to her feelings in sighs and tears.

Presently, however, a comforter came to proffer advice and assistance--in the shape of the
duenna. As we have already seen, she was ruffled by Don Manuel's want of confidence, and proper
regard for her judgment; and she had resolved to tender her assistance to another quarter.
It is to be observed the duenna was of a most obliging disposition. She bestowed her good advice
most liberally, and she had an inexhaustible fund of pious exclamations and admonitions at
the service of her friends. She could not forego the idea of being serviceable, and therefore
very properly desired to be consulted on all occasions. Yet with all these amiable qualities,
the duenna, in the opinion of most people, would be entitled to no better appellation for her
pains than that of a busy body.

"Niña,[21] how's this?" she cried--"What mean these tears?--Aye! aye! I see that your father
has been guilty of some preposterous and tyrannical measure; I suspected as much from his carefulness
in keeping the secret from me.--God bless the man!--what is the matter with him?--he will never
be advised, and really I cannot imagine why I remain in his house. Well, child, unfold your
sorrows and grievances to your kindest friend; you know nothing delights me so much as consoling
the afflicted, and offering service to the unprotected."

"Yes, good Martha," replied the sorrowing girl; "I am fully sensible of your goodness, and
I do trust you will not deny me your compassion. Alas! without your valuable advice and assistance,
I shall never surmount the difficulties with which I am surrounded. I must see him--I must
see Don Lope this very night!"

She then explained to Martha the nature of her distress, and the duenna, glad to find an opportunity
of being serviceable, readily promised her co-operation in the accomplishment of her charge's
wishes.

CHAPTER IX.

                                Thomson.

In the most retired part of Monteblanco's garden, reclining on a rustic seat, under the fragrant
canopy of the myrtle and arbutus, sat a female form enveloped in a loosely flowing dress of
virgin whiteness. The air was cool and serene, and except the rustling of the surrounding foliage,
when agitated by the breeze, or the soft plaintive voice of the nightingale, no obtrusive sound
disturbed the solemn silence. The blue vault of heaven, glittering with countless stars, the
rich perfume flung around by the orange flower and jasmine, and a stilly languor that pervaded
the spot, all disposed the mind to gentle and loving thoughts.

Theodora, however, sat absorbed in silent sorrow and abstraction: her long clustering tresses
fell in luxuriance over her white and polished neck, almost concealing in their profusion the
traits of a countenance overcast with grief and despondency.

But a figure appears on the garden wall, and the sound as of some one falling is heard on the
soft turf. Theodora starts, yet a sudden recollection seems to check her momentary fear. The
nocturnal visitor was Gomez Arias, who had received a hasty summons from Theodora, and surmising
that some unpleasant intelligence awaited him, he hurried in breathless expectation to the
place of appointment.

What was his amazement, upon his arrival!--He beheld his Theodora, not in the joyful eagerness
of affection springing forward to meet his embrace, but silent and dejected. Her intelligent
countenance no longer beamed with that charming smile which his appearance never failed to
create. Motionless and unmoved she appeared, amongst the flowery shrubs and verdant foliage
of the garden, like some statue of chaste and classical beauty, placed to embellish and diversify
the sylvan spot.

Gomez Arias is before her, and yet she seems hardly conscious of his presence. He gazes on
her with surprise, and then gently whispers her dear name. The well known voice recalls her
scattered ideas, and its magic sound awakens her benumbed sensations to fresh warmth and life.
She raised her head, threw aside the rich clusters of her hair, and a stream of moonlight falling
on her countenance revealed to Gomez Arias a picture of sorrowing love.

Her eye was swollen with grief, and the big tears in quick succession chased each other down
her pallid cheek.

Don Lope approached her tenderly, and folding her in his arms, endeavoured to calm her emotion,
by the most soothing and endearing expressions.

"Theodora, what means this sorrow? Whatever be the misfortune which threatens us, do not vainly
yield yourself a prey to terror, before you know the means I may have of averting it." Then,
as if struck by a passing thought, he added--"You surely cannot entertain a distant doubt of
the singleness--the devotedness of my affection?"

"Doubt of your affection! Oh, heavens! do not even mention the appalling word; there is something
more terrible than death in the very idea. No, no," she continued, with vivid earnestness;
"I do not; I cannot; I will not doubt of your affection. If ever such agonizing----"

She could not proceed, for her imagination was so powerfully acted upon, even with the remote
image of such a misfortune, that she was obliged to remain some time silent before she could
control her emotions.

"No," she resumed; "I cannot doubt your affection. But there is another calamity in store for
me that will assuredly render wretched the rest of my existence."

She again stopped, and her tears flowed more abundantly than ever.

Gomez Arias felt relieved from a heavy foreboding; for the idea that his engagement with Leonor
de Aguilar had come to the knowledge of Theodora, had at first filled his mind with apprehensions.
He was accordingly more at ease, feeling an inward conviction that however distressing the
dreaded intelligence might prove, he should still find resources within himself to avert its
dangers.

"Speak, my Theodora; unfold the cause of your extraordinary sorrow, and do not weep and tremble
thus."

"Oh, Lope!" she despondingly cried, "I must renounce you for ever."

"For heaven's sake, calm this agitation, Theodora, and let me know the worst. But yesterday
you were as happy as a heart teeming with genuine affection, and blessed with a most unbounded
return, can make a mortal, and now----"

"He is come," she fearfully interrupted him; "my destined husband is come."

Gomez Arias appeared staggered at this unexpected information, but immediately recovering himself
in apparent calmness, demanded the name of his rival. "Who is it," he cried, "that boldly claims
the hand of my Theodora?--No doubt some noble and distinguished cavalier."

"Alas! your supposition is but too just," replied the weeping girl; "and it is that circumstance
which adds to the poignancy of my grief: were he a less estimable character, were he divested
of those amiable qualities that render man dear to the eyes of woman, my reasons for refusing
his addresses would be unanswerable. In that case, if I were made a victim to parental authority,
some consolation might be found in the conviction that the inextinguishable hatred which I
bore him was grounded on justice. But the man that seeks an alliance with our house is one
whose choice would confer the greatest honor on the most exalted of the land. Brave, generous,
of noble birth, and alike distinguished for the superiority of his mind and person, he is in
the highest favor with the queen, who has intrusted him with the command of one of the divisions
which are now marching against the rebel Moors."

Theodora made these observations in the perfect simplicity of her heart, but she unconsciously
excited an idea of the most galling nature in the mind of her lover. Not that he felt the pangs
of jealousy, for he was too confident both in his own merit, and the unparalleled affection
of his beloved; but yet he was inwardly mortified at the encomiums bestowed on another, inasmuch
as they gave rise to a comparison which he could not easily brook. He, therefore, with some
asperity of tone, inquired the name of this accomplished knight; and Theodora, who perceived
the inward workings of his soul, with a faultering voice pronounced the name of Don Antonio
de Leyva. The sound operated like an electric shock on the mind of Gomez Arias, and despite
of his habitual self-command, signs of uncommon perturbation were discernible in his countenance.

"What!" he cried, "Don Antonio de Leyva,--that presumptuous, that detested youth!"

Here he checked his emotion; pride resumed the mastery over his irritated feelings, and with
a forced gaiety of manner, he continued,--

"Certainly Don Antonio is a gallant cavalier, and well calculated to captivate a woman's affections."

He stopped; for his surprise had been too abrupt, and his manner too ill disguised to continue
long in this constrained suppression of his real feelings. Gomez Arias hated Don Antonio on
no other plea, than the fame he was daily acquiring for his valour and brilliant qualities.
Besides, he could not forget his adventure in the tournament, when Don Antonio crossed him
in his career, and well nigh endangered the reputation he had that day acquired. He looked
on him, therefore, as a dangerous rival, and felt chagrined at the command with which the queen
had invested him, as it would afford him opportunities of grounding his claims to her royal
favor on the firmest foundation.

Theodora was far from suspecting the cause of her lover's agitation. She naturally attributed
to a feeling of jealousy, what was in fact the effect of restless emulation. A long pause ensued,
during which the state of Theodora became more distressing, as she perceived her lover's countenance
gradually assuming an unusual expression of sternness. Various passions seemed to be contending
for mastery in his bosom, but the feeling of wounded pride soon appeared to predominate. His
eyes glistened with indignant fire, his lip curled with a bitter smile, and the flush of anger
mantled on his brow.

"Theodora!" he said, fixing earnestly his eyes on the trembling girl; "Theodora, you have deceived
me!"

"Deceive you, Gomez Arias!" She looked petrified at the bare supposition. "Deceived you! And
can you for a moment harbour such a cruel, such a degrading suspicion? Oh! Lope, is it possible
you can think thus basely of your Theodora?"

"Why was not I made acquainted with this engagement before?"

"I was ignorant of it myself; the marriage had been settled between my father and Don Antonio,
without consulting my inclination. Alas! the first intelligence I received, was to bid me prepare
for the ceremony, which is to take place immediately.--My dearest Lope," she added with tenderness;
"Oh! never again harrow up my feelings, with doubts unworthy of our mutual passion."

She clung to Don Lope's neck, and pressing him with the earnestness of unbounded confidence
and love--"Never," she continued, "had Theodora a single thought concealed from you; you, the
absolute master of my heart, and the most secret wishes of my soul."

Then in a more composed manner, she proceeded; "It was but this morning that Don Antonio arrived,
when my father immediately proceeded to announce the purport of his visit. My amazement at
first knew no bounds; I remonstrated on the abruptness of the proposal, and endeavoured, by
gentle expostulation, to ward off the threatening blow. But my entreaties, and my tears were
in vain. My father, strenuously bent on the accomplishment of his wishes, left me the only
option of yielding implicit obedience to his mandates, or passing the rest of my existence
in the solitary gloom of a convent. My choice is made; I lose you, Lope;"--and here her anguish
almost overpowered her utterance; "I lose you for ever, but your dear image shall be constantly
before me in those dark abodes of penitence and woe. Thither must I go, and leave all these
dear scenes, and the dearer sight of you, consigned to unrelenting misery. Not humbly, alas!
to pray; not to abjure the world; for ah! I cannot abjure that world which contains the fondest
object that links me to life. I go not in the humble mood of a repentant sinner, to weep over
a guilty life, but in the desponding resolution of a fond woman, eager to keep her faith unbroken
to him of her heart's first and only attachment. For you, oh Lope, my tears will flow; you
alone will be the theme of my constant meditations--my fervent prayers. In my hopeless solitude,
I may perhaps feel one glimpse of consolation;--the idea that you may be happy, and that even
in the glittering scenes of ambition, you will sometimes revert to the cheerless abode of Theodora.
This will afford me some solace in my affliction. And when the hand of death releases me from
my odious chains, your tears will tenderly fall on the grave of her, whose greatest crime was
that of loving you too well."

"Theodora!" exclaimed Gomez Arias, moved by the picture she had drawn; "and is this then the
only remedy you can devise?"

"What!" cried she eagerly, "is there any other to be found?"

She paused, and gazed on Gomez Arias, with anxious expectation, breathless with hope.

Don Lope, after a momentary lapse, with a chilling coldness, observed--"You do not love me,
Theodora!"

"Oh Heavens!" she cried in the hurried accents of terror--"Never, Lope, never utter those killing
words;--what do you require of me?--Speak, Gomez Arias, speak: I will do all, to convince you
of the sincerity of my affection, and the cruel injustice of your words."

"You must fly then from the abode of parental oppression," calmly replied Don Lope; "and in
your lover you shall find that tenderness, which a father denies; nay, start not, these words
may perhaps alarm you, yet consider it is our only resource, and that imperious necessity is
a law to which we must all submit. In a short time you shall be mine in the face of heaven,
and now, you must resolve to follow me."

Theodora started at the proposition. She fixed her eyes on Gomez Arias, and with a deep but
tranquil anguish exclaimed--"Alas, Don Lope! Is this the remedy you propose? Can you indeed
tempt me to abandon my father in his declining years, to regret and shame?"

"You had already determined to abandon him," observed Gomez Arias.

"No, Lope," she replied; "by that step, I should only disappoint him in his expectations--not
incur his merited hatred and malediction;--his grief would be tempered by resignation, not
corroded with the sting of shame." "Don Lope," she then continued with dignity, "command my
life; but oh! never, never require of me the commission of a crime, as the proof of my love."

"Stay, Theodora," interrupted Gomez Arias, with a composure that ill agreed with the terrific
cloud gathering on his brow; "stay, you are right, and I must retract my words: the offer was
dictated in the transports of sincere and ardent love, and as the only means left us in the
hour of danger. But I perceive that I have mistaken your sentiments; such actions were only
made for souls capable of feeling and appreciating the extent of a true passion; not for cold
and timorous beings like yourself. I flattered my fond pride, that in you I had met with a
miracle of deep and all-absorbing affection, but I am deceived, and sorely shall I repent my
delusion; I now see you in your true colours; you are like the rest of your feeble sex, pleased
with the gratification of their vanity, but incapable of a bold and generous resolution in
favor of the man they pretend to love. I will not upbraid you; but from this moment cast you
from me as a piece of inanimate clay, a painted thing, alike incapable of estimating and sharing
my regard."

Saying this he rudely disengaged himself from her arms, whilst the unfortunate Theodora, affrighted
at the violence of his manner, fixed on him a wild and vacant stare, the intensity of her grief
depriving her of the power of reflection. But when she saw her lover actually receding from
the place, her mind started from its abstraction, and her thoughts were fixed upon the dreadful
desertion that now threatened her. She gave a frantic shriek, and fell lifeless on the ground.

Alarmed at the effect produced by his passionate and cruel proceeding, Gomez Arias hurried
back to the spot, and raising the lovely victim from the ground, gazed on her with all the
anxiety of returning affection. Theodora was in his arms, but, alas! her beautiful eyes were
closed, her cheek was colourless, and a cold suffusion bathed her stiffened limbs. The vital
spark had apparently deserted its frail tenement, for no sign of conscious life was there.
Don Lope's angry feelings had given way to his fears for her safety, and as he wiped the cold
dew from her face, he perceived blood trickling slowly down her marble brow. In the violence
of her fall upon the gravelled walk, a flint had wounded her forehead, and the crimson drops
that issued from it contrasted mournfully with the frozen paleness of her countenance.

Gomez Arias was moved as he gazed intensely on the angelic creature now before him. This was
no artful fiction, no solemn mockery of woe: a few words had worked that dreadful revolution
in her mind. Perhaps there is at times an indescribable cruelty in love that prompts a man,
in a certain degree, to enjoy the misery which is wrought by an excess of affection towards
him, and triumph now mingled with compassion in the abandoned lover's heart. He was, however,
soon called to more generous sentiments. Anxiety and regret took place of vanity, while his
passion for Theodora acquired new intensity as he scanned her beauteous figure and contemplated
the distress he had occasioned. With the most endearing efforts he endeavoured to reanimate
the lifeless form of Theodora. He ardently pressed the yielding burthen to his heart, placed
his glowing cheek by the cold one of his mistress, fervently kissed the crimson stain upon
her forehead, and then bound it with a scarf.

Theodora, however, for some time gave no sign of life. Don Lope called her by the most tender
names, sprinkled her face with the water of a neighbouring fountain, and exhausted himself
in efforts to revive her. At last she gently opened her eyes, a scarce perceptible motion shook
her frame, and shortly after she raised her white fingers to her forehead, as if conscious
of sensation. She heaved a deep sigh, and Gomez Arias watching with anxious gaze the progress
of her reviving senses, strove with soothing fondness to hasten their return. Her eyes gently
opened, and a sad smile played upon her lip, as she acknowledged the tender solicitude of her
lover, unable as yet to express herself by words.

"Theodora, my dearest, don't you know me?"

Her abstracted senses awoke as if from a horrid dream, and with fearful and convulsive clasp
she hung to Don Lope's neck.

"He is not gone--no, no, I have him here--" The rest of her sentence was lost in a hysteric laugh.

"No, my love," tenderly said Gomez Arias, "I am not gone, nor ever will. I am a barbarian to
treat you thus. I do not merit such excellence as thine, and, I crave thy forgiveness for the
misery I have inflicted."

Theodora, now perfectly restored, saw the stain of blood on her lover's lip, then she felt
the bandage on her forehead, and when Gomez Arias explained the nature of her wound, the fond
girl rejoiced at a cause that had called forth her lover's anxiety and caresses.

They remained in profound silence, which they were both afraid to break, for they trembled
to renew a subject which had produced such melancholy effects.

But time was swiftly flying, and Gomez Arias again urged the necessity of adopting some resolution.

"Theodora," he said, "the night is wearing fast away, her friendly shade will but for a short
time longer favor us, and the morning must, alas! throw still darker shadows over our brightest
hopes."

Theodora sighed deeply, but was unable to reply.

"What is to be done?" demanded Don Lope. "Is it your wish that we should part for ever?"

"Part for ever!" cried Theodora; "Oh Heavens! the idea is more than I can endure."

"There is no other alternative left us," said Gomez Arias, "unless you feel yourself courageous
enough to--" and here he cast an inquiring glance, and waited her reply; for though the purport
of his meaning was obvious, he felt almost afraid to convey it by language.

Theodora's distress increased, and her fond arms that had till now encircled her lover's neck,
loosened their hold, whilst her head drooped despondingly upon her bosom.

After a short pause--"My love," continued Gomez Arias, "you must decide, and instantly, we
have but a short time more to remain."

"Don Lope," exclaimed the afflicted girl, with impassioned eagerness, "pity! oh pity my horrible
situation, and do not tempt me with a crime, to which my own fond woman's heart urges me but
too strongly. No, do not exert that uncontrollable power which you possess over my very soul,
to sink me deeper into the abyss of misery, that must embitter my future existence. Do not
force me to destroy the tranquillity and comfort of a venerable parent--of that parent, whose
greatest fault is his excessive fondness and solicitude for his child. Though by his last determination
he has completed my misery, he is nevertheless more deserving of pity than reproach. Alas!
while he destroys my felicity and repose, he cherishes the idea, that he is laying the foundation
of the future happiness of his child."

"Yes!" cried Gomez Arias, smiling bitterly, "by forcing her to waste her life in a cloister."

"No," exclaimed Theodora, "he does not suppose me capable of such a terrible resolution; he
is ignorant that my affections are irretrievably bestowed on another, fondly imagining that
I shall not long be insensible to the merits of the husband he has chosen."

She fell on the ground, and clasping the knees of her lover, proceeded with redoubled emotion--"Oh,
Lope, I know but too well my own weakness! Take, therefore, compassion on my distress, urge
me no further, and do not avail yourself of the tenderness and self-devotion of one who adores
you, to render her a cruel and delinquent daughter."

Gomez Arias was powerfully struck with the earnestness of her manner; he never imagined he
should meet with such opposition from a heart so enthusiastically devoted. He could not but
admire the generosity and nobleness of feeling which thus voluntarily condemned itself to a
life of solitude and despair, rather than deviate in the smallest degree from moral rectitude.
Yet he was inwardly mortified at her superiority, and would fain have persuaded himself that
her scruples proceeded rather from a deficiency of passion than from a sense of honor and filial
duty. He looked on her with a mixture of compassion and disappointment as he endeavoured to
raise her from the ground.

"No, never," she cried, "never will I rise till you grant my request."

"Rise, rise, Theodora," said he gloomily, "and listen to me for the last time.--Since it is
your desire, I will no longer, press a sacrifice I was naturally bound to expect from your
repeated, and apparently sincere, protestations of regard. Since you will have it so, I must
yield. I will begone immediately; but if you are to be for ever lost to me, think not I will
tamely submit to my wrongs. I will seek out the cause of our misfortunes, and if he is the
valiant knight report speaks him, I shall then find the only solace left me in my desolation,
that of taking ample vengeance or falling nobly by his weapon. And now," he added after a short
pause, "farewell Theodora! Farewell, for we part for ever!"

"No, you cannot," franticly cried Theodora, "you must not leave me thus. Oh Lope! you were
always tender, and generous, and kind.--Never did you in the slightest manner wound my heart
till this dreadful night."

"True," replied Don Lope, "and never till the present moment could I doubt your love."

"Oh Lope! Lope! and is it to your Theodora you speak thus! In pity recall those dreadful words."

"Silly girl," vehemently exclaimed Gomez Arias, "what do you require of me? Or what is it that
you wish? You have chosen your path, let me now take mine, unless you force me in my anguish
to curse the hour when I first beheld you."

"Curse the day you saw me!" As she uttered this exclamation an involuntary chill crept over
her, which seemed to have frozen the springs of her heart.

"Theodora," he now said in a tone of sad reproach, "dry your tears--you will soon have bitter
occasion for them. May you enjoy that repose which you have for ever destroyed in my heart--Farewell!
Farewell!"

As he said this he gently strove to disengage himself from her hold. The struggle was too powerful
for her nature, and like the poor bird when under the magic influence of the serpent, yields
itself to the destructive charm, Theodora, unable any longer to combat with her overpowering
feelings, threw herself into her lover's arms, and exclaimed passionately upon his bosom--"No,
no, dear Lope, we will not part. Let it be as you will." She paused, and then added with solemnity--"It
is decreed that I must be wretched, but you at least shall never have reason to reproach me."

Gomez Arias clasped her fondly to his breast, and in the transports of his joy, endeavoured
to draw a glowing picture of their future happiness.

"My dearest Theodora, hush your apprehensions and unreasonable fears. At the first opportunity
we marry. Your father will at last relent, and even if he should prove deaf to the appeal of
nature, the love and gratitude of Gomez Arias will supply the loss."

"Oh that is my only consolation," she interrupted with eagerness. "Love me, Lope, love me even
as I love you. No, no, that is not possible. But, oh, if thy love should ever decrease--deceive
me! in pity deceive me! Do not let me suspect the dreadful truth--No, let death first conceal
from me so terrible a secret."

Gomez Arias again tenderly essayed to calm her agitation, and then urged the necessity of quitting
the place with the utmost expedition. She made no longer any resistance, for she had advanced
too far now to recede, and leaning on her lover she was almost carried along the garden.

Gomez Arias quickly made a signal, and a ladder of ropes was thrown from the other side. At
the sight Theodora could scarcely restrain the agony of her feelings. A crowd of thoughts distracted
her mind--a load of anguish was upon her breast, and had it not been for the support of her
lover, she would have fallen. Gomez Arias bore the trembling girl across the wall, but as she
stood for an instant on the summit, she cast a long melancholy look on the home of her innocence
and childhood--the now deserted abode, of a venerable parent, and with a heart throbbing with
anguish, she intrusted herself to the protection of her lover.

CHAPTER X.

    Where is she?
    I wish to see my daughter, shew her me;

    * * * *

    You have betrayed me; y' have let loose
    The jewel of my life: Go, bring her me,
    And set her here before me.--

                          Beaumont and Fletcher.

The next day arrived--a day of sorrow for the unfortunate Monteblanco. Seated on a ponderous
chair of rude workmanship, the old caballero waited for the appearance of his darling daughter,
to pay her morning devoirs, and receive his blessing. He waited patiently for some time, but
his mind becoming fraught with more than usual anxiety, he called lustily to the duenna,--he
called again, and again, but to no purpose. The pious old dame was deeply engaged in her orisons,
and her mind occupied with other affairs than appertain to this sinful world. She appeared
at last, her eyes half closed, her lips moving fast in the fervour of her devotions, and her
long skinny fingers employed in a manner equally devout, as with the most exemplary industry,
and solemn sedateness, she let fall in measured intervals, one by one, the large black counters
of her rosary.

"The Lord be with you!" ejaculated piously the duenna.

"Save you, good Martha," responded Don Manuel.

"And may the blessed Virgin forgive you Señor, for thus disturbing an humble sinner at her
prayers."

"Amen!" answered Don Manuel; "and now Martha tell me where is my daughter."

"Ave Maria!" continued the duenna, as another counter fell.

Monteblanco, who expected quite a different answer, was however kind enough to give the customary
response to the salutation.

"Santa Maria!" muttered he with a movement of impatience, raising nevertheless his eyes to
heaven. But it so happened that the devotion of the old cavalier was obliged to give way to
his paternal solicitude.

"Martha," he therefore cried, "put aside your beads, and tell me, in goodness tell me, if my
child is indisposed."

"Holy Virgin!" exclaimed the duenna, "what brings that into your head, Don Manuel?"

"If not," demanded the father, "how does it happen she has not yet appeared?--Where is she?"

"In bed, God help her," replied Martha, "for she very naturally concluded, that a lady who
had spent the night in an amorous colloquy, could not be expected to rise over early the next
morning."

"In bed!" echoed Monteblanco, "in bed! shame, why it is past seven," he added, somewhat ruffled
at the idea. "What! has she passed an indifferent night?"

"Not that I know of, unless indeed that she may have been a little too zealous in her midnight
devotions: the grace of the Lord be upon her for a sweet, innocent child. Bless her soul, she
could not be otherwise after the holy counsel which I, a miserable sinner, have endeavoured
to instill into her tender mind."

"Martha, Martha," seriously observed Don Manuel, "I do not entirely approve of this excess
of devotion."

"Ah!" ejaculated the duenna. "That is exactly what I say to her, but she is very scrupulous
in her religious exercises."

"Well Martha, you must moderate her zeal, and make her understand that the views of heaven
will be much better realized, by yielding implicit obedience to the dictates of a father; and
now," he added in a more familiar tone, "go, and bid her come, for I expect Don Antonio de
Leyva every minute."

The duenna went out muttering a Gloria Patri, which was exactly finished by the time she got
at the other side of the door. She then hastened to the chamber of her charge, by no means
pleased with a somnolency that exposed her to any rebuke, however trifling.

"Oh you sluggish girl," she began. "Dios me perdone,[22] what means this? Are you not ashamed
to be in bed at this time in the morning, and allow a christian matron like me to be disturbed
at her prayers on your account? This comes of your nocturnal meetings; I must put a stop to
them; they may be very refreshing to the heart, but cannot contribute to the health, nor to
the good keeping of the soul; up, up perezosa,[23] and never more expose a kind duenna to your
father's rebukes; up, immediately, Don Manuel is waiting." Receiving no answer, she took it
for granted, being not a little deaf, that Theodora was replying with the various excuses which
were naturally to be expected, under similar circumstances. She continued, therefore, without
troubling herself as to their import. "Nay, nay, attempt not to exculpate yourself, for it
is very wrong to expose me thus, because I am so amiably inclined as to overlook your frailties
with christian charity. Holy Virgin! I shudder when I think to what perilous compromises my
unsullied reputation is daily exposed by the tenderness of my disposition. What is it you say?--Eh?--What?--you
are silent then, well child, after all that is the wisest thing you can do; it pleaseth me
to see you thus humble, for humility, like charity, covereth a multitude of sins." The good
duenna proceeded in this strain for some time, without receiving any check to her eloquence,
till at length, surprised at such an excess of contrition, she grew impatient, flung the windows
wide open, pulled the bed hangings aside, when to her utter consternation she found the object
of her intended visitation vanished. The surprise of the duenna was strongly pictured on her
shrivelled visage, as the dismal truth obtruded itself upon her mind. The wrath of Monteblanco,
and the blot upon her own dear reputation, as the natural consequences of this disaster, took
possession of her mind. She first uttered something between a whine and a discordant cry, meaning
thereby to indicate at once her emotions of anger and sorrow. Then she began busily to invoke
the protection of all the saints in the calendar. But the saints, though very holy personages
in their way, are by no means the proper persons to consult respecting the discovery of stray
damsels. She appeared to place more confidence in her own exertions than in their assistance.
She commenced a scrupulous search in every part of the chamber, under and round about the bed,
and waddling out of the apartment, she left no corner in the house unsearched.

Astonished at the duenna's activity, and puzzled to discover the cause, the servants flocked
around her, but to all their inquiries she gave no other answer but interjections and exclamations,
and such harsh guttural sounds, that they began to suspect that the good dame had fairly lost
her wits.

The garden was now explored, but alas! with no better success, and the perturbation of poor
Martha's mind baffled all description.

It was some time before she could determine what course to pursue, balancing in her mind whether
it would be more prudent to avoid the impending storm by flight, or boldly and confidently
to encounter her master's ire. Flight certainly is the method preferred on similar occasions;
but then by adopting it she would tacitly confess herself guilty, and her tender reputation
would be sullied with an indelible stain; by bravely encountering, on the other hand, the irritated
father, she could stoutly deny all cognizance of the affair, and boldly call on all the saints
of Heaven to assert her innocence, witnesses to whose testimony Martha always confidently appealed,
being satisfied they would have no inclination to contradict her.

Acting upon this idea, she left the garden, instilling into her parchment features all the
surprise and grief that she could muster up at so short a notice.

In the meantime Monteblanco, heartily tired of sending message after message, resolved to seek
himself the cause of the duenna's protracted absence.

"Martha--Martha," he cried, as soon as he saw her--"In the name of the devil, what means this?"

"Hush, Don Manuel!" replied the duenna, with great solemnity of manner--"Hush, venerated Señor;
for sure enough the evil one has been at work."

"What!" exclaimed the astonished Don Manuel, "explain yourself, and quickly."

"Holy Virgin!" proceeded the dame, "that such a thing should happen in my time!"

"In the name of God--Martha," cried again the father, in agony, "tell me what misfortune has
happened."

"Oh!" whined the duenna, struggling hard to force from her old eyes a couple of rebellious
tears, "ask me not, for shame and sorrow will choke my utterance."

"May all the curses of Heaven choke you! Woman, what have you done with my daughter? Speak--speak,
or by Santiago de Compostela, I will so belabour thy shrivelled form, as to reduce it to atoms
in less time than you can say your credo."

The duenna had never before seen her master in so terrible a passion, and she almost repented
not having followed her first impulse to fly. She inwardly cursed that tenderness for her reputation,
which had brought the more substantial part of her person into the present quandary. A vigorous
defence was the only alternative now left her.

"What have I done with your daughter!" she exclaimed, with a look which she meant to be expressive
of indignant surprise.--"May the Lord help you!--what should I have done with your daughter?"

"Where is she then?"

A pause ensued.

"Where is she?" demanded again the agitated father, with redoubled emotion.

"Alas! I know not--she is gone to all appearance--May the light of Heaven, and her guardian
angel conduct her steps!"

"Gone!--my Theodora gone!" cried Don Manuel in the height of affliction.

"I conclude that to be the case," added the duenna, with assurance, "for she is nowhere to
be found."

The desolate father appeared thunderstruck at this intelligence. He smote his venerable forehead,
and plucked his grey beard in the anguish of despair. Then he vented the most bitter reproaches
against the ingratitude of his daughter, and cursed the day that gave her birth.

Whilst he was thus vainly indulging in the paroxysm of grief, the duenna kept crossing herself
with such active fervour, that the repeated and rapid motion of her hand at last caught the
attention of the sorrowing and abstracted father.

"Oh, thou vile hypocrite!" he exclaimed, darting a furious look--"Thou beldame!--Is this the
way thou hast answered the confidence reposed in thee?--I have nurtured a serpent in my house--I
have set the ravenous wolf to guard the lamb! Accursed beldame! Thou art an accomplice in my
daughter's flight."

"Holy Virgin of the Conception!" ejaculated the offended Martha, "that such foul aspersions
should be thrown on my character, after sixty years of rigid penitence! May the Lord forgive
you, Señor, as I do"--and she crossed herself with redoubled zeal.

"Forgive me, thou imp of the devil!" thundered Don Manuel, astonished at her assurance.--"Forgive
me!"

"I an imp of the devil!--I, who had an aunt who died in odour of sanctity, in the convent of
Santa Clara--I, who am second cousin to Fray Domingo, one of the most religious as well as
most celebrated preachers of the day!"

"May the curse of Heaven fall on thee, and him, and all thy race."

"Do not swear," interrupted Martha; "Oh! do not swear--you fright me--I shall faint."

"Avaunt, thou detested hag!" continued Don Manuel.

"San Pedro y san Pablo!" cried the duenna.

"Thou poisonous crocodile!" replied Don Manuel.

"San Jose bendito!" responded the duenna.

"Abominable fiend!" returned Don Manuel.

"Animas benditas!" answered the duenna.

This extraordinary litany, however, was at length cut short by the arrival of Don Antonio de
Leyva. He was not a little surprised at the scene which presented itself, and was for some
time unable to obtain an explanation. When he at length arrived at a knowledge of the affair,
his astonishment and sorrow were exhibited in the most lively manner.

"Alas!" he cried, "I could not but suspect from my first interview with Theodora, that her
affections were fixed on another object."

"Oh, no, no," eagerly replied Don Manuel--"you are far from the mark--she cannot love any one--how
could she form an attachment without my knowledge?"

"Then," said Don Antonio, sighing, "it was to avoid my addresses that she has sought a refuge
in flight."

"Jesus Maria!" interposed the duenna--"Do not say so, Don Antonio--how could she possibly object
to so accomplished a cavalier?"

"Good dame," answered he, "it is not difficult to account for her dislike; and I must acknowledge
with painful sensations, that I am chiefly to blame for this unfortunate occurrence."

"No, no," cried Monteblanco, pointing to Martha; "the person chiefly to blame in this affair,
is that detestable hag.--See how she crosses herself, and rolls her eyes to impose upon our
credulity; but it is all over--I have been too long the dupe of her affected piety, and seeming
austerity of manners; my eyes are at length open to conviction, and I see the despicable creature
in her true colours."

"What reason," observed de Leyva, "can you assign for Theodora's strange resolution, unless
it be dislike to me, or love for another."

"Alas! I know not what to think," answered Don Manuel; "my mind is bewildered, and all my conjectures
may prove wrong. Perhaps some hastiness in my way of proceeding may have influenced her determination.
But I do not despair; she may yet be brought to a sense of her duty; if not," he added despondingly,
"the happiness of my declining age is blasted, and heartily shall I wish to be numbered with
the dead."

Monteblanco by these means sought a medium between accusing his daughter of downright criminality,
and confessing to young de Leyva that his suspicions concerning Theodora's aversion to the
intended wedding were not entirely groundless.

He was unwilling also to relinquish the thought of having so excellent a son-in-law, and he
believed Don Antonio to be possessed of all those qualities which are capable of enslaving
the affections of women, even the most fastidious. He, therefore, prudently resolved, in case
of his child's return, to allow her due time to consider the proposal, which he had been so
anxious to carry by parental authority, hoping that she would at last be brought to acquiesce
in his wishes, by the constant assiduity and numberless accomplishments of her suitor.

Under this impression, he readily accepted the services proffered by Don Antonio, for the recovery
of Theodora, and for speedily concerting the means.

"Don Manuel," exclaimed the gallant de Leyva, "spite of your kind and courteous asseverations,
I cannot but consider myself the cause of your daughter's leaving her home. This reflection
and that tender sentiment which Theodora was as capable of inspiring as I am susceptible of
feeling, makes me perhaps a principal in this melancholy event. It is with heartfelt sincerity,
therefore, that I offer my assistance. Let us first endeavour to restore the lovely fugitive
to her deserted home, and then let not the shadow of compulsion actuate her future determination."

"I shall be happy," replied Don Manuel, "to profit by advice dictated at once by affection
and prudence. Theodora," he added after a short pause, "cannot have departed from this city,
and we shall probably find her either in a convent, or at the abode of one of her relatives.
However, to insure all precaution, I shall forthwith send despatches to Granada, and the neighbouring
towns."

Saying this, Monteblanco made a movement to retire with his young friend, and casting a look
of anger on the duenna, he said as he passed--"Thou mayest well tremble, miserable sinner that
thou art!"

"Tremble, forsooth!" returned the stately dame, with great dignity of manner. "Innocence has
no occasion to tremble; and now it only remains for me to quit a place where my virtue and
honesty have so unwarrantably been called in question."

"When thou dost quit my house," said Don Manuel, "it will be to be shut up for life in a convent,
there to do penance for thy sins, and to profit by the holy example of that good aunt that
died in odour of sanctity."

Left to herself, Martha began seriously to reflect on the unpleasantness of her situation;
the threat of a conventual seclusion sounded harshly to her ear. She fancied it would be more
advantageous to society that her good offices should continue in requisition, than that they
should be for ever lost by an untimely adoption of a contemplative life.

"Oh, that ungracious Gomez Arias!" she exclaimed, in her perplexity.

"What wouldst thou with Gomez Arias?" said a well known voice.

She turned, and saw before her the object of her exclamation.

"Blessed be the Virgin! It is he, sure enough. What brings you here, Sir? Where is my young lady?"

"Where is she?" inquired Gomez Arias, with feigned anxiety.

"Nay, nay, your arts are thrown away on me; I know that Theodora, poor silly thing, has eloped
with you. She loves you, in very truth, she does; and when a woman really loves, it is unaccountable
what a number of fooleries she will be tempted to commit."

"Well," returned Don Lope, "supposing she has intrusted herself to my protection, she only
followed the dictates of pure affection; surely there could be no harm in so doing."

"Under favour, Don Lope," observed the duenna, "but there is. Not forsooth in loving you; but
yet, there is a crying injustice, an unpardonable cruelty, in leaving me to suffer for it without
a----"

"Reward, wouldst thou say?" interrupted Don Lope.

"Valgame San Juan! But you misapprehend me strangely. I am not mercenary; heaven knows my only
concern is for my safety, threatened as I am."

"Threatened! in what possible manner?" demanded Gomez Arias.

"With nothing less than a convent."

"A convent," repeated Don Lope, smiling, "to so devout a dame, methinks, can have no terrors."

"Aye in troth, I am devout," replied the duenna, "and yet I feel nowise inclined to be immured
between four walls. What merit would there be in the sacrifice of an old, poor, decrepid piece
of mortality such as I. No, it is the voluntary seclusion of young, rich and beautiful virgins
that delights the divinity."

"Most prudent Martha," gaily replied Gomez Arias, "I greatly admire and applaud your discretion.
Never ought so worthy, so valuable a matron to be lost to the world. No, thou wert born to
be the consolation of gallant knights and amorous damsels; it would be really unpardonable
to permit thy seclusion, whilst thou mayest yet tend thy services to lovers. No, no, God forbid
thou shouldst go to a nunnery."

"The Lord bless you, good Señor," returned Martha with humility; "but you over-rate my poor
deserts."

"By my sword! that modesty becomes thee mightily. But we must lose no time. Attend vespers
this afternoon, there thou shalt find my conscientious valet, who will give thee proper directions
and assistance to effect thy escape, and ample means to pass the remainder of thy precious
life in some distant city of Spain, free from the blessed idea of conventual retirement."

"That will I do, most generous Don Lope, and be thankful withal."

"But stay," added Gomez Arias with mock gravity; "there is one objection to this arrangement."

"Virgen de las Angustias!--What is it, Señor?" demanded the duenna, in visible alarm.

"Why!" answered Gomez Arias, "only that thou must sacrifice somewhat of that dear, unsullied
reputation by following such a course."

"Alas, Señor!" exclaimed she of the nice reputation--"That is too true; willingly would I preserve
it entire, but feeble mortals are not bound to do more than their strength can compass."

"True," rejoined Gomez Arias; "thine argument, most venerable Martha, is a very plausible argument,
and very consoling withal."

At this moment a noise was heard. The duenna started. "It is my master, and Don Antonio," cried
she. "Hence! begone, Don Lope, they must not see us together."

"Fear not, most respected dame," said Gomez Arias; "I am no college gallant, no unskilful tyro
in the affairs of love; I depart but to return in due time."

"Return!" echoed Martha; "to what purpose?"

"To cover thy threadbare reputation," said he laughing; "it appears of so tender a texture,
that it is likely to be torn piece-meal, if not remedied in time. Besides, I must protect my
own, should it be necessary: a good pilot, even in a calm, must prepare against foul weather."

"Our Lady's blessing be upon your head!" said Martha, "for a right prudent caballero."

"Well, mind to give thy assistance at vespers."

"Ah, my good Señor; my devotion requires no stimulus."

Gomez Arias made his exit, just in time to prevent a meeting with the aforesaid gentlemen.
They had been busily occupied in devising the most efficacious means to insure success in their
researches. Don Manuel appeared more composed in his demeanor, for he placed much confidence
in the influence and abilities of his ally. Hope, that with its cheering ray lights us even
on the gloomy borders of the tomb, now in part dispelled the heavy cloud that overshadowed
the deserted father's heart.

Don Antonio took an affectionate leave, and after repeating his cordial offers of assistance,
departed.

Monteblanco, when left by himself, felt his wrath again revived, at the sight of the duenna;
he therefore renewed his threats of a convent.

"Don Manuel!" said the duenna, with a most sanctimonious look, "I am innocent--innocent, as
the child unborn: yet if it so pleaseth Heaven, that I should be immured in a cloister, the
Lord's will be done; a convent has no terrors for me; alas! a poor humble sinner can desire
no better abode; but think, Señor, how galling it is to be forced by compulsion to embrace
a state, that ought to be embraced out of spontaneous inclination; allow me at least a few
hours to arrange my worldly concerns, and I shall be ready to obey your commands."

Saying this, the female tartuffe retired to her chamber, to prepare for her secret departure.

CHAPTER XI.

    Tu puoi pensar, se'l padre addolorato
    Riman quand'accusar sente la figlia,
    Si perchè ode di lei quel, che pensato
    Mai non avrebbe, e n'ha gran maraviglia.

                                Ariosto.

    Ben se'crudel, se tu già non ti duoli
    Pensando cio ch'al mio cor s'annunziava:
    E se non piangi di che pianger suoli?

                                Dante.

Whilst the unhappy father was absorbed in his recent misfortune, and endeavouring to beguile
the tedious hours, by directing researches in all quarters of the town, where there was any
possibility of his daughter having taken refuge, he was surprised with a visit from Gomez Arias.

"Pardon my intrusion, Señor," he said with much courtesy; "my anxiety for the fate of an honorable
gentleman, though a rival, will perhaps hold me excused in the eyes of Don Manuel de Monteblanco."

"Sir," returned Don Manuel, "your visits do much honor to my humble dwelling, and stand in
no need of an apology."

After the long vocabulary of compliments had been exhausted, Gomez Arias reverted to the adventure
in the Zaguan, and with apparent anxiety demanded news of Don Rodrigo.

"I have none, Señor," said Monteblanco; "and alas! I am not likely to feel much concerned for
the inconvenience of another, at a time when I am myself plunged in deep affliction."

"Perhaps," resumed Gomez Arias, "it may not be altogether right in a stranger to pry into the
secret motives of your sorrows; but if I can by any means in my power alleviate them, I should
esteem myself particularly honored in meriting your confidence. I but now perceived signs of
alarm in the countenances of your servants, apparently not without foundation, and it grieves
my very soul to see so honorable a personage in distress. What has happened, noble Señor?"

"Alas! My child--my child!" cried the afflicted father.

"She is not ill?" inquired Don Lope.

"Oh! worse!--worse," replied Don Manuel with emotion.

"Ah!" exclaimed Gomez Arias, feigning surprise. "What?--no--it is not possible--and yet it
may be so."

"Eh?" cried Monteblanco, in an inquiring tone of voice, and opening wide his eyes in the eagerness
of anticipation.

"My valet," continued Don Lope, "brought me information that there was a rumour circulating
about the town, relating to the elopement of a noble lady. As I am a perfect stranger in the
place, I felt no curiosity to inquire further into the affair, but I could not then imagine
that you, Sir, were the victim of this misfortune."

"Alas! Don Lope! it is but too true!"

Gomez Arias had learnt so well the part he had to perform, that he found not the slightest
difficulty in going through it with the most perfect ease, and by this means he insensibly
won the confidence of the deluded Don Manuel, who, like many others under similar circumstances,
felt a relief in confiding his sorrows to one, who appeared to sympathise with him so sincerely.

"For surely," continued Don Lope, "some one must have been acquainted with this flight. Have
you well examined your servants? Depend upon it, Señor, they are generally the instruments
and abettors in the rebellion of children against their parents."

"You are right, my honored Sir," replied Don Manuel. "Servants are the sworn enemies of those
who give them bread; but though I am disposed to suspect every one of my dependants of being
accessary to this treason, I am yet at a loss on whom to fix my suspicions with justice. I
am assured, however, that the duenna must have had an active part in conducting this abominable
transaction."

"The duenna!" exclaimed Gomez Arias, darting a look full of wonder and well feigned surprise--"The
duenna! By my sword, that must be our clue--I had almost forgotten that you had a duenna in
your house, otherwise my astonishment would not have been so lively. Duennas are the soul of
every intrigue, and you may indeed affirm, with a safe conscience, that yours has not only
connived at, but even facilitated your daughter's escape."

"Of that, alas! I am but too confident," replied the father, "notwithstanding her solemn asseverations
and canting hypocrisy."

"Ah! the cunning beldame," quoth Don Lope sarcastically. "She has all the arts of her kind,
I perceive; but I hope, Señor Don Manuel, that you are not to be imposed upon by such shallow
artifices. We must secure the duenna, and examine her well; perchance a few threats will not
be altogether unavailing."

"That is precisely the method I have adopted," said Don Manuel.

"And where is the old hag, now?" inquired Don Lope.

"Packing up her trumpery, to depart for the convent."

"Pedro"--then called Don Manuel.

"Your pleasure?" demanded the valet, as he entered.

"Send Martha to me."

Pedro obeyed, but shortly after returned with a most dismal and elongated visage.

"Well, what is the old dotard staring at?" impatiently cried his master.

"Señor, Martha is flown," replied the dependant.

"Flown!" re-echoed Monteblanco, in consternation; "Flown! And how came you not to prevent her
departure?"

"Save your honor," returned the terrified Pedro, "we all thought she was quietly shut up in
her chamber. She has contrived to escape, the Lord only knows how--she must have vanished through
the chimney, or a key hole, like a witch that she is, Jesus me valga!"

"That she is a witch I am fully aware, and you are all her familiars," cried Don Manuel with
violence. "But you shall rue the moment the hag foiled your vigilance."

Gomez Arias, who had observed a perfect silence, now ventured to remark--

"We need go no further for a positive proof of the duenna's culpability, since her guilt is
rendered sufficiently evident by her flight."

"Yes," observed Don Manuel, "but that circumstance affords me little consolation. The means
of ascertaining the truth are now lost, by the disappearance of the principal accomplice."

The afflicted old man again gave way to his exasperated feelings; this last stroke quite overpowered
him. His pride was sorely wounded, for he was one of those old Spanish cavaliers, who, when
deprived of every other satisfaction, took a melancholy pleasure in inflicting his vengeance
on the object of his wrath. But even this solitary consolation was now denied him, and the
idea that he had been so grossly imposed upon by an old beldame, added to the galling reflections
which his misfortune had inflicted.

Gomez Arias exerted his utmost endeavours to sooth his emotion, employing for this purpose
all the established maxims resorted to under similar circumstances--maxims profoundly wise
no doubt, but which unluckily are often lost upon their object.

"In order then," said Gomez Arias, "to unravel this mystery, it is of the first importance
to set about the inquiry from the commencement, in order to discover the authors. We have now
the agent of this nefarious enterprise, but we must seek for the actual culprit. There can
be no doubt that when a young girl is induced to elope from her home, there is generally a
lover who prompts her to so objectionable a measure. Now, Don Manuel, is there no person on
whom suspicion may attach with any probability?"

Monteblanco pondered for a while, and then replied--"Really, Don Lope, if there exists such
a man, I am totally unacquainted with his person."

"What, are you unable to hazard even a conjecture?"

"I am, Don Lope," sorrowfully answered the father.

"Indeed! this is surprising;--look, Señor, around the circle of your acquaintance, and perchance
you may find a clue to guide your investigation."

Don Manuel mechanically looked around, and then shook his head despondingly.

"I would not willingly," continued Gomez Arias, "throw an aspersion on the reputation of any
one, but what are we to surmise from the visit of Don Rodrigo de Cespedes? Certainly, there
was something unaccountable in his chivalric expedition against me. Besides, why require the
assistance of an aged cavalier, when he might have commanded that of more suitable agents for
that description of undertaking?"

Gomez Arias met with no great difficulty in deceiving the man he had injured; for one under
Don Manuel's distressing situation, is of all others the most easy to be imposed upon. His
own wounded feelings, in some measure, paved the way to the deception;--as a man who has lost
his purse, is apt to throw the charge on the very first individual who unfortunately happens
to attract his notice.

"In addition to this," proceeded Gomez Arias, "we may remark the visible alarm which was stamped
on the countenance of the young lady, when our quarrel took place--her anxiety to bring the
light--the shriek she uttered on imagining that my antagonist had fallen;--these, Don Manuel,
are strong indications, which may have escaped your observation in moments of anger and grief,
but which to a cooler judgment amount almost to certainty. However, it is not my intention
to prejudice your mind against Don Rodrigo; my only desire is to warn you."

By such subtle means, Gomez Arias confirmed Monteblanco's suspicions; for when once started,
nothing tends more powerfully to strengthen them than a sort of recantation in their author.
Accordingly, Don Manuel felt almost convinced of the treachery of his friend. Certainly there
was ample room to doubt the justice of such an imputation, if he had chosen to reflect coolly
on the subject; but in cases like the present, the best reasons are unfortunately most unceremoniously
set aside.

Thus Don Manuel was at once deceiving himself, and casting a reflection on the character of
a man who had not the remotest connection with the event, and whose integrity in this instance
could still less be impeached than in the case of his having feloniously taken the old mule
of the friar, instead of his own beautiful horse, for the purpose of gaining by the exchange.

Monteblanco, after a moment's thought, suddenly grasping the hand of Gomez Arias--"I owe you
much, Don Lope," he said, "and I pray you to be convinced of the sincerity of my gratitude."

"Nay, honored Sir," replied Gomez Arias, "you labour under a delusion--you owe me nothing--at
least you owe me no favor, and I solemnly disclaim any title to your acknowledgments."

Many and reciprocal were the compliments that passed from this time between the two cavaliers;
they mutually offered their services to each other, and Don Lope very prudently afforded to
his new friend all the instructions which might tend to render abortive the pursuit and recovery
of the fugitive. Shortly after he took leave of the unfortunate cavalier, who was even troublesome
in the expression of his gratitude, and whose hopes now began to assume a brighter hue.

CHAPTER XII.

           The intent, and not the deed,
    Is in our power; and therefore, who dares greatly
    Does greatly.

                                Browne's Barbarossa.

    E ben degg'io, di libertade amico,
      Meno la morte odiar di quella vita,
    Che ricever dovrei dal mio nemico.

                                Metastasio.

We must now recall the reader's attention to that portion of the history of the rebellious
Moors, which is in some measure connected with our tale. The forty chiefs, who had been elected
in the revolt of the Albaycin, succeeded, as we have already seen, in disseminating their sentiments
through many towns and villages in the jurisdiction of the Alpujarras: their efforts, however,
were almost invariably unsuccessful. In most of their encounters, the Moors were either entirely
worsted, or compelled to seek for safety in flight; yet they persevered in their designs. Defeats
and repeated crosses, instead of subduing, tended only to increase their courage, by adding
to the desire of vengeance.

The rebels had already sustained some severe reverses; amongst which the most prominent was
the loss of the town of Guejar, which, after a protracted and desperate resistance, had been
taken by storm by the combined forces of Count de Tendilla and the famous Gonzalo de Cordova.
Most of the Moors either perished in the defence, or were put to the sword by the conquerors;
whilst the Castle itself was given up to the flames.

The Count de Lerin next possessed himself of the fortress and town of Andarax; and, exasperated
at the resistance of the inhabitants, who continued to protract the defence, although without
any chance of success, he at length blew up the Mosque, where a considerable number had fled
for shelter, along with the women and children.

Thus of the three strong holds of the rebels, Lanjaron was the only one that now remained unconquered,
and this indeed appeared to offer a more formidable resistance, chiefly on account of the garrison
having el Negro for a leader--a man of mean origin, but extraordinary courage and resolution.
These qualities, together with the services which he had already rendered to the Moorish cause
in the wars of Granada, had acquired for him the confidence of his countrymen, who had accordingly
intrusted him with the command of this important post. He was a man of severe habits, with
a natural ferocity of character, which, although not calculated to conciliate, nevertheless
succeeded in commanding the respect and obedience of his troops.

The castle of Lanjaron, situated in the vale of Lecrin, was considered a post of the utmost
consequence, not only from the strength of its defences, but from the circumstance of being
a place of secure retreat to the Moors of the surrounding country. At this moment the fortress
was closely beleaguered by the troops under the command of the Alcayde de los Donceles and
other chiefs, who deprived the rebels of the smallest communication with their friends of the
mountains, and had thus reduced them to an utter state of destitution.

Under these distressing circumstances, el Negro assembled his men, and in a short but animated
speech endeavoured to make them sensible of the importance of keeping possession of Lanjaron,
till the other leaders had gained time to organise their means of defence in the Alpujarras.
The words of el Negro were received with a burst of enthusiasm, and for some time the Moors
vied with each other in giving the most heroic proofs of courage and perseverance. As the fortress,
however, was completely surrounded, and the means of subsistence began to fail them, as a last
hope, they made a desperate sally during the night, but were driven back with considerable
loss. The failure of this attempt damped their resolution, and some of the less courageous
even murmured against an exploit beset with difficulties, which it appeared next to an impossibility
to surmount.

El Negro beheld these symptoms of discontent with heartfelt sorrow, but at the same time with
a countenance expressive of coolness and undaunted fortitude. He exerted his utmost endeavour
to quell the rising storm, soothing some with pleasing hopes and promises, and thundering horrible
threats on the most refractory. The following morning three grisly heads, dripping blood, appeared
affixed to poles upon the battlements; but this salutary punishment did not produce the expected
effect, for though it appalled the discontented, it inspired not a single spark of valour in
their hearts; whilst the Christians, who beheld the ghastly spectacle, augured favorably from
this bloody proof of disaffection.

The numbers of the besieged were daily decreasing, until at length they came to an open resolution
of surrendering at discretion. The principal men of the garrison, without the knowledge of
their chief, had already sent privately a messenger into the camp of the Spaniards to treat
about the surrender, and the conspirators had assembled in a clandestine meeting, when el Negro,
whom they supposed to be reposing from his fatigue, suddenly came, and threw them into consternation.

"Traitors! what means this?" he cried, with a voice of thunder; "what are your intents?"

"To capitulate," answered one more hardy than the rest, "and save our lives by a timely submission."

"Villain!" exclaimed el Negro, fiercely, "thou at least shall not enjoy the reward of thy cowardice!"
And raising his arm, with a ponderous blow of his scymitar, he cleaved the head of the traitor
down to the very shoulder, and the body rolled heavily on the ground. His companions stood
aghast in speechless horror, whilst el Negro, his lips curling with ire, and casting around
a glance of defiance and contempt--"Go," he exclaimed, "go, unworthy Moors, and abandon a cause
which you have not the courage to sustain. Go, and live like slaves, since ye know not how
to die like men. Senseless, pitiful cowards! Was it for this then that you forced me to be
your leader? Was it for this that I abandoned Granada, leaving there, at the mercy of the Christians,
all my dearest friends, and severing the tenderest ties that bind man to existence? Go, and
accept the proffered pardon. I will remain alone, to shew our countrymen of the Alpujarras,
that at Lanjaron there was at least one true man--one who knew how to die in the execution
of his duty."

He said, and snatching the sacred standard, ascended rapidly to the summit of the battlements,
and placed himself by the three heads, which, from their exposure to the sun and wind, had
already begun to decay, and presented a most ghastly and loathsome spectacle. The revolted
garrison threw open the gates of the castle to their enemies, whilst el Negro, abandoned by
all his companions, continued gloomily pacing the battlements. The Christians, respecting his
resolute conduct, and willing to save his life, sent a herald to invite him once more to surrender,
declaring he had done his duty, and death alone would be the consequence of his further resistance.
He received the message with a sneer, in which contempt was blended with sadness and despair;
then taking the presented adarga,[24] the acceptation of which was a signification of peace,
he threw it disdainfully on the ground, and trampled it under his feet.

"Carry this answer to him who sent thee!" and folding his arms, he resumed his melancholy walk.

The Christians now took possession of the castle, and el Negro tranquilly beheld their approach.
El Alcayde de los Donceles, willing to make a last effort to save him, cried out as he advanced--"Yield
thee, Moor--yield--and accept thy pardon."

"Never!" exclaimed fiercely el Negro; "the Moor will accept no boon from his enemies. Death
is now my only resource; but, Christians, do not rejoice; I have been subdued by treachery,
not by arms. Do not rejoice, for our resources are still great, and while el Feri de Benastepar
and Cañeri live, your oppression shall not be complete."

He said, and with a sudden spring he hurled himself from the summit of the tower. His body
falling on a rock below, was dashed to pieces.

The surrender of Lanjaron, and the tragical end of el Negro, were an irretrievable loss to
the Moors. They now found it utterly impossible to oppose the superior and better disciplined
troops of the Christians with any chance of success, either in open battle or in regular sieges.
They therefore resolved to limit their whole means of defence to the mountains, a description
of warfare more suitable to their wandering habits, and far better calculated to harrass the
enemy, without sustaining risk. Accordingly, el Feri de Benastepar, Andalla, Cañeri, and other
chiefs, collected their forces, and assigned to each other a portion of those mountains which
they were at once to govern and defend. By this means the Christians were likewise obliged
to divide their army into many divisions, and to encounter the rebels in partial struggles.
Don Alonso de Aguilar, who had succeeded in compelling el Feri to retreat before him, now pursued
his advantage, and advanced towards Gergal, where that rebel chief was collecting his adherents.

In the mean time, Don Antonio de Leyva, whom we have left at Guadix, condoling with Don Manuel
at the flight of his daughter, was compelled to forego his wishes to serve the afflicted father.
His duty now called him to join the army of Aguilar, and act in conjunction with him against
Cañeri and el Feri de Benastepar.

Don Antonio's party had already arrived at Guadix, and the gallant young knight, unwilling
to procrastinate his departure when the path of honor was open to him, immediately proceeded
to take leave of Monteblanco. He found the unfortunate father plunged in deeper affliction
than before. In the society of Don Antonio he had found a source of relief, and his departure
was productive of the most melancholy sensations. But Don Manuel felt the necessity of the
separation, and he was too generous and noble minded to signify his wish to cause any delay.

"Go, my friend, go, where honor calls you," he said, as he threw his arms round de Leyva's
neck--"Go, and show by your conduct how worthy you are of the confidence reposed in you.--When
the glory of your deeds shall be blazoned abroad, my ungrateful child will feel a pang of regret
for the loss of a man so deserving of her affection and esteem."

Here he was overcome with grief, and could proceed no further.

"Señor," said Don Antonio, "do not yield yourself a prey to despondency; but a short time has
yet elapsed since the melancholy occurrence that afflicts you, and you have no reason to relinquish
your hopes. In all cases be assured, Don Manuel, that you and those who concern you will always
be next my heart, and that unless death deprive me of the power, I shall at least see your
wrongs redressed, if I can bring no other consolation."

Saying this he hastily disengaged himself from the arms of Don Manuel, and endeavouring to
conceal his own emotion, gave the word of command. He bounded lightly on his spirited barb,
and the martial display of his men, the glitter of armour, and the seductive prospect of future
glory and renown, powerfully contributed to dispel the cloud that hung over him. Yet it was
a sad parting, for there was something peculiarly affecting in the sight of a father who, like
Monteblanco, found himself in old age isolated in the midst of the world, and bereft of the
last dear comfort that still bound him to life. Besides, in the short interviews between Theodora
and Don Antonio, both in the last visit and at former periods, she had left a pleasing recollection
in his mind. Already the cries of those who bade the party of de Leyva farewell were diminishing
on the ear, and the turrets and steeples of Guadix became more obscurely perceptible in the
distance. The warriors began now to assume a mastery over their feelings, and the tear of sympathy
was brightened in the glow of expectation. Courage and renown took entire possession of those
hearts which but too lately had sympathized with the weaker and more tender sentiments of humanity.

The absence of Don Antonio was like a death-blow to the hopes of Monteblanco. Often did he
regret the infirmities of age, which now prevented him from grasping his sword; but his arm
was grown nerveless, and for the first time in his life the helpless cavalier felt bitterly
the recollection that all his brave sons had sacrificed their lives in the defence of their
country, not one now remaining to prop the honor of his falling house. Don Manuel was a man,
and this transitory feeling of regret was natural to a father under his affliction, who knew
not to whom to turn for consolation and advice.

Gomez Arias, who had insensibly won his favor, departed the next day for Granada, in which
quarter he had no longer any danger to apprehend. He was anxious to assume his station in the
war against the rebel Moors. Monteblanco considered his intention not only just, but highly
commendable, and a tear coursed down the old man's cheek, as he took leave of the seducer of
his child, and the cause of his present misfortunes.

CHAPTER XIII.

    D'une secrète horreur je me sens frissoner;
    Je crains, malgré moi-même, un malheur que j'ignore.

                                Racine.

    Señor Gomez Arias
    Duelete de mi
    Que soy niña y sola
    Nunca en tal me vi.

                          Calderon.

It was a rich and splendid summer evening. The sun was slowly sinking behind the giant mountains
of the Alpujarras, whose dark fantastic shadows were gradually lengthening along the plains
below. No intruding sound broke upon the soft stillness of the scene, save when the feathered
tenants of the forest warbled their evening song, or the tolling of a distant convent bell
reverberated through the sombre recesses of the mountains. A soft languor prevailed over the
sylvan scenery. The fancifully wreathing clouds, streaked with the red and gold of the lingering
sun--the variegated tints of those quiet solitudes--the warm, chequered streams of light that
glanced on the broad-leafed tree, or fitfully quivered over the straggling streamlet--the calm
repose which reigned over that wide extending landscape, all tended to raise the mind to contemplation,
and to interest the heart.

At this tranquil hour, a group, consisting of three persons, were seen slowly ascending a green
sloping height, which seemed designed by nature as a first resting place in the severe ascent
of the gigantic mountain. The first of the party was a knight of most gallant bearing, and
mounted on a shining black steed. Close by his side rode a beautiful damsel, whose long redundant
tresses were with difficulty restrained in a fillet of silver lace. She wore a long riding
habit; a Spanish hat, ornamented with a plume of black feathers, was hanging gracefully on
one side of her head. Having thrown aside the thick veil which had protected her from the scorching
influence of the sun, she discovered a fair countenance, to whose delicate cheek the heat and
exercise had lent a gentle tinge of the rose. Yet an expression of pensive sadness pervaded
the features of the lovely traveller.

At a short distance behind these two personages, rode a man who appeared by his dress and deportment
to be their attendant. He sat with perfect nonchalance on a stout Andalusian horse, but by
the looks of suspicious alertness, which he now and then cast around, it might be inferred
that this apparent ease was not in strict unison with his inward feelings. At the moment of
which we speak, he was singing in a mezzo tuono the romance of the Marriage of the Cid--

    A Ximena y a Rodrigo
    Prendió el rey palabraymano
    De juntarlos para en uno
    En presencia de Layn Calvo.

"Cease thy confounded noise, Roque," cried angrily the knight, who, as the reader may suppose,
was no other than Gomez Arias. "What in the name of Satan can induce thee to sing, when thou
hast neither voice nor ear? Give over, for thy confounded harmony is anything but pleasing."

"Señor," observed the attendant; "what if I only sing to please myself?"

"Silence, buffoon; or I shall presently raise a discord about thee, by which all thy future
powers of hearing shall be ruefully endangered."

"Pray, Señor, do not deny me this only comfort; I wish particularly to sing at this moment."

"Thy reasons?"

"Because I always sing when I am afraid; there is nothing so efficacious as a song to drive
away fear."

"In sooth, such singing as thine would drive away the very devil. But why shouldst thou fear?"

"Under favor, Don Lope," replied the valet, "methinks fear ought to be the most natural sensation
at the present moment."

"Darest thou talk of fear, poltroon!" said Gomez Arias.

"By our Lady of the Pillar," ejaculated Roque, "such talk befits both time and place. Are we
not in hourly danger of encountering a set of most fierce murderous-looking ladrones?"[25]

"Well, and if that were really the case, we have but to defend ourselves manfully. By the soul
of the Cid, I would make very light work of a host of such ruffians."

"Well, my honored master," returned the valet, "but be pleased to consider that this is not
our only danger, for I trow we are now in the mountains of Alpujarras, where those accursed
and rebellious Moors hold dominion. A plague on the infidel dogs! Are they not continually
on the watch to spring upon straggling and unwary Christians, and when they do surprise them--"

"Peace, fool, peace!" impatiently interrupted Gomez Arias, "This is not the Alpujarras. Forgettest
thou that when we left Guadix two days since, we pursued quite a different route?"

"That I know, Don Lope, but I likewise know that during the night, either by chance or on purpose,
we lost our way. Besides I am not so ignorant of the country as to mistake these places, and
I would wager my head against two maravedis[26] that we are actually ascending the Alpujarras."

The young lady, who had till now observed a profound silence, with a faultering voice exclaimed--"Oh,
heavens! are we really in those terrible mountains, and are we indeed in danger?"

"No, my love," answered Gomez Arias; "the danger is not so great as this fool would make us
believe."

"No, my lady," retorted Roque; "the danger is not so great, for after all, the worst that can
befall us is but to be hung upon a tree, there to dance to the tune of the whistling midnight
wind, and to afford a luscious repast to the ravens, and other carnivorous gentry that hold
tenantry in these wild passes."

"Heavens!" cried Theodora alarmed.

"Nay, gentle lady," interposed Roque, "the hanging system will only be followed up with respect
to my valiant master and his humble servant. As for yourself, the Moors are men celebrated
for their gallantry, and would place too great a value on your beauty, to subject it to such
rough treatment."

Gomez Arias, greatly exasperated at Roque's insinuations, suddenly turned, and, riding up to
him, interrupted the course of his oratory with a smart blow.--"Now, rascal," he said, "if
thou darest again to give utterance to any of those ridiculous fears, by Santiago, the Moors
shall not be put to the trouble of hanging thee--So be cautious what thou sayest."

"Say!" humbly muttered the valet, "Blessed Virgin! I have nothing else to say; your arguments,
Don Lope, are unanswerable. But I hope, my good Señor, I may be allowed to recite my prayers,
since singing and rational conversation are interdicted."

"Pray as much as thou pleasest, sinner, provided thy orisons are inaudible to us."

Gomez Arias now endeavoured to calm the fears of Theodora, who had been greatly agitated by
the imprudent remarks of Roque, which tended considerably to increase the depression under
which she laboured.

"My Theodora," he said, "is it possible that I cannot remove the continued dejection that preys
upon you?"

"Forgive me, Lope," she answered; "the expression of my grief I know is painful to thee, but
a dismal foreboding obtrudes itself upon my mind, which I strive in vain to banish. Alas! it
is fraught with a most fearful, but indefinite anticipation; a woeful presage that freezes
my very soul."

"Hush such foolish chimeras," said Gomez Arias; "it is true that, for greater security of avoiding
observation, I have been obliged to seek studiously the most unfrequented paths, and travel
through these wild and solitary passes; but our journey draws to a conclusion, and all the
appalling images of Moorish ruffians will soon be entirely dispelled."

"Alas! the dreaded sight of those infidels is not the only cause of my emotion," sadly replied
Theodora.

"What else can occasion it?" demanded Gomez Arias, with anxiety. "Surely, my Theodora repents
not the hour she intrusted herself to the protection of Gomez Arias?"

She spoke not for some time;--a flood of tears relieved her bursting bosom: then, as if struggling
to collect her forces which were almost overpowered by sad recollections, she exclaimed--"Oh!
never mention the hour of my crime--for crime it was, and a deadly sin, to abandon the best
of parents, in his old age; and yet," she added, sobbing, "conscious as I am of my guilt, were
the sin again to be committed, for thy sake, Lope, I should again brave the voice of self-reproach.--Gomez
Arias, wert thou to read the hidden pages of my heart, there thou wouldst find a tale of boundless
love and never-ending sorrow, which no words of mine can describe, but which must embitter
the future portion of my existence, unless we speedily obtain the forgiveness of my injured
parent."

"Nay, Theodora, this weakness is as unreasonable as it is unjust; nor can I at all imagine
why thy future life should be embittered with grief, united as it is with the very being of
Gomez Arias."

"I am sensible," cried Theodora, "both of the tenderness and sincerity of your love, and you
know full well with what fervent devotion it is requited."

"What, then, can urge your mind to form such desponding anticipations? Have you seen aught
in my conduct,--have you discerned anything in my words, that can afford even the shadow of
justice to your apprehensions?"

"No, Gomez Arias," she answered; "your conduct to me has always been kind; your words breathing
the same solicitude for my comfort and happiness: but you must forgive the weakness and fears
of a fond woman's heart. Forgive me, Lope, if these feelings should sometimes create ideas
galling at once to my peace, and derogatory to thy constancy and love. I have laboured hard
to subdue them, but, alas! the exertion has constantly proved above my strength; I must give
them utterance. Oh, Lope," she added; mournfully, "I fear you are not the same. Pardon me,--you
are not the same, as when I first surrendered to you all my affections, fondly imagining you
were mine for ever."

"Not the same!" ejaculated Gomez Arias; "have my attentions been less constant than from the
first rapturous moment when you allowed me to call you my own?"

A deep long rending sigh burst from the bosom of Theodora, and her whole frame seemed to suffer
from a painful recollection.

"No," she said, smiling sadly through her tears, "you watch with solicitude over me, and you
are lavish of endearments; but, alas! the pure and soul-warm part of your affection I fear
is flown."

"By my honor," said Gomez Arias, "I could never have expected these unkind expressions from you."

"Oh! Lope," cried the affrighted girl; "do not heed me; think not of the remarks to which my
foolish fears give rise; I am ashamed of them myself. I will no more disturb your mind; no,
never more shall the voice of complaint sound in your ears, and call forth the resentment of
your wounded feelings.--Ah! Gomez Arias, compose yourself, and be not angry with your poor--your
helpless Theodora."

As she uttered this affectionate appeal, her beautiful eyes were fixed on Don Lope, with an
expression in which all the tender, all the genuine feelings of her heart seemed to be collected.
Gomez Arias was softened; his features relaxed from that sudden asperity which had for a moment
usurped the more habitual complacency of his countenance, and he endeavoured to dispel from
the mind of Theodora the impression which such unkindness might produce.

They had now arrived at the summit of the little hill. It was a most delightful spot. A sward
of short pliant grass carpeted a romantic little plain, skirted on one side by a portion of
a forest, through which the sun cast short and interrupted glances of his parting splendour.
Above the heads of the travellers, rose in dark grandeur the majestic form of the Alpujarras;
and beneath them, as far as the eye could reach, was spread an extensive range of sylvan scenery,
intermingled with the habitations of men. Farther, the little quiet villages lay slumbering
in the soft blue shadows. The whole of the scene was wrapped in an indescribable charm, that
well accorded with the tranquillity of the hour.

Here they halted, and Gomez Arias turning to Theodora said in an affectionate tone, "My love,
your tender frame has already endured a greater share of fatigue than becomes your strength.
Let us then, in this delightful and sequestered spot, indulge an hour in refreshing and invigorating
repose."

Theodora assented in silence.

"Nay," continued Don Lope, "consult your inclination. I will not press you to rest, unless
you feel its necessity."

"I have no wish but your own," cheerfully answered Theodora; "you appear inclined to stay in
this place--let us tarry then."

Gomez Arias sprung lightly from his steed, and aided his fair companion to dismount. She threw
herself into his arms, but as her feet touched the ground, she heaved a sigh, and cast a melancholy
look around her.

"How you tremble, my love," said Don Lope; "this is the consequence of that rascally Roque's
foolery. I have a good mind to chastise the fellow for the fears he has conjured in your breast."

Roque, who had followed at some distance in silent mood, no sooner heard his name pronounced,
than he pricked up his ears like an intelligent dog on the scent for game, and when he heard
his master's kind intentions towards him, he ventured to observe--

"Señor, I would not trespass on your generosity; pray reserve your intended favor for a future
occasion, when I shall have more specially deserved it."

"Sirrah! be silent; come down, and tie the horses to yonder trees."

The valet obeyed briskly; while Gomez Arias conducted his fair companion to the entrance of
the wood; where, arranging a couch under the spreading arms of a huge oak, he invited her to
lie down and rest. She was about to accede to his invitation, when they were startled by a
shrill and discordant sound accompanied with a heavy flapping of wings, and presently a flight
of dull ill-omened ravens issued from their solitary abodes, and hovered about, as if to dispute
the possession of their ancient homes with the intruders.

A fitful and involuntary shudder ran cold over the affrighted girl, as with a wild and appalled
look she gazed on the recluse birds, which their arrival had disturbed; she clung eagerly to
Gomez Arias, as they both sat down on the spot above-mentioned.

"What ails you, Theodora?" demanded Don Lope. "Is it possible that a few ravens can inspire
with childish terrors a mind like yours?"

Theodora acknowledged her foolish weakness, but she was far from feeling tranquil and consoled.
Indeed when she perceived Roque, with visible alarm, cross himself fervently three times, it
added to the excitement of her feverish imagination.

Owls, ravens and bats, have always had an indisputable privilege to excite superstitious fears.
Whence they derive this particular claim, it would be difficult to determine, but they are
generally considered the harbingers of some dismal event, which is more properly, after all,
the result of an over-heated fancy.

Theodora, who since she left the paternal roof had been a prey to that fixed sorrow which the
intoxicating transports of love had not been able to subdue, now contemplated, in the gloomy
croaking of the ravens, the sad presage of some dire misfortune. She reclined silently with
downcast eyes, while Roque was busy in fastening the horses.

"Gently, gently, Babieca," said the valet, caressing the spirited steed of his master; then
he muttered to himself--"for we have nothing to fear if we escape safe and sound from this
place--So help me God if I did not count thirteen ravens, as ill-omened in every respect of
size, color and voice, as a Christian might wish to behold--Well, our Lady de las Angustias
send us her grace and protection!"

"What art thou muttering there?" asked Gomez Arias. "Thou graceless varlet, hast thou a wish
that I should fulfil the promise I made thee a short time since?"

"Señor?" inquired Roque, pretending not to hear.

"No dissembling, thou dog!--What art thou mumbling to thyself?"

"Save you, kind master; sure enough I am only praying, and in so doing I infringe not your
commands, since I have your permission to pray to my soul's content, provided it is in a tacit
capuchin-like manner."

The ravens having practised their cumbrous evolutions, now sought their rest amidst the deeper
gloom of the forest, and all again was hushed, to the great relief of Roque, who forthwith
began to devour alone the provisions which, like a careful and sagacious forager, he had provided
against the necessities of the journey.

Theodora had laid aside her hat and veil, to enjoy the luxury of repose with greater convenience,
whilst her lover placing himself near her, and watching her every movement, diffused by his
tender anxiety a transient joy over her features. She soon insensibly sunk into that sweet
state of languor which precedes sleep--her beautiful eyes by fits now entirely closing, now
gently opening, indicated the gradual absorption of her senses, till at last she fell into
a profound slumber. Gomez Arias, who as we have observed stood watching her, like the tender
mother over her beloved daughter, now knelt close by her side, and softly pronounced her name--she
answered not--he took her yielding hand, gazed over her anxiously, till he was perfectly assured
that a profound sleep had completely overpowered her faculties.

"Señor," quoth Roque, "methinks it would be a pity to disturb the slumbers of the poor lady
after the journey she has undergone."

"I do not mean to interrupt her rest," said Gomez Arias, in a low voice, "so we must even retire."

Then he rose up with cautious silence, and drawing near his valet, he added--

"Rise, rise quickly, and make no noise."

Roque obeyed, and both having retreated to some distance--"Señor," observed the valet, who
cared not again to disturb the ominous ravens, for which he felt an instinctive horror--"Señor,
no necessity for retiring further."

"Yes there is an imperious one," replied Gomez Arias, "I can no longer remain here."

"What say you, my honored master!" demanded Roque, alarmed; "surely you are not afraid of the
Moors? By my conscience, we should come to a pretty pass if such were really the case."

"Peace, thou wretch!" said Don Lope; "speak not a word, but immediately untie my horse, and
as you expect to live, mind you make not noise enough to disturb even the leaf of the tree."

"Señor, I do not understand," quoth the bewildered Roque.

"I must begone," impatiently replied his master.

"Gone, Sir! Why I understood you had determined not to break our young lady's repose."

"Nor is that my intention. She must remain here with thee, till I am out of sight."

"Cuerpo de Christo! What ails you my dear Señor; what ails you, in the name of San Jose bendito?"
exclaimed the astounded Roque, who really imagined his master was beside himself.

"Listen, Roque," said Gomez Arias, "and mind thou religiously observest my instructions. Unavoidable
circumstances require that I and Theodora should part; I have been seeking an opportunity of
so doing, and assuredly I shall not find a better than the present. It is necessary I should
return to Granada immediately, and it would be highly imprudent to hazard the chance of being
seen with Theodora, for reasons of which thou must be well aware. A separation, therefore,
becomes at this moment indispensable. When I am gone, thou shalt awaken yon sleeping beauty,
and accompany her thyself to the said city, where I shall precede you in order to make arrangements
for her reception. There is a nunnery, of which my cousin Ursula is the Lady Abbess, where
she shall for the present find an asylum. Thou hast only to inform Theodora, that I thought
it most advisable to ride in advance to prepare our retreat. Upon thy arrival at the Torre
del Aceytuno a man will join thee, to whom thou must look for further instruction, and whose
direction thou art to follow with confidence. Thy reward shall be proportioned to the magnitude
of the service; so now get me my horse, and let me begone ere she awake."

Roque remained thunderstruck as his master revealed to him his cruel intentions; the poor fellow
drew his hand across his eyes, as if to ascertain whether or no he was under the delusion of
a dream; but as his master in a more imperative voice repeated his injunctions, the reality
of his barbarous purpose burst upon his mind.

"No, no, Don Lope," he said in a supplicating tone, "such surely cannot be your intentions;
abandon the poor girl! no, you only wish to trifle with my credulity."

"I must begone," resolutely retorted Gomez Arias.

"Why, Sir, assuredly you loved her?"

"I loved her once, but that is passed."

"Holy Virgin del tremedal! What say you, Señor? What has the poor lady done? How has she offended
you, unless it be in loving you too well?"

"Aye, Roque, thou art a shrewd fellow; she has indeed loved me too well."

"But consider, my honored master, she is more like an angel than a woman; never before did
I see a being so kind, so tender and devoted."

"Roque, Roque, be not sententious; I have no time to listen to thy sentimental cant; the qualities
which thou praisest in Theodora are precisely those that withdraw me from her.--Haste thee,
I say--What is the fool staring at?"

"But, Señor Don Lope Gomez Arias," solemnly said Roque, "consider that common humanity----"

"Humanity!" interrupted his master, "how am I deficient in humanity, when I place her in the
only situation that becomes her, since a marriage between us is utterly impossible. But enough;
a truce with your remarks; prepare to obey my orders, and take care thou art strict in their
observance as thou valuest my regard, or tremblest at the effects of my wrath and indignation.
However, to remove thy ridiculous and ill-timed scruples, I must recall to thy mind that I
cannot pursue another course, for thou art aware that I am betrothed to Leonor; I must not
violate the sanctity of my promise, and thereby lose the favor of the Queen, and incur the
resentment of the justly offended Don Alonso de Aguilar."

This last observation somewhat reconciled Roque to the necessity of the measure, the more so
as he hoped that, when at Granada, another plan might be devised for Theodora, besides that
of conventual reclusion; and finally, as he knew that all further expostulation would be thrown
away upon his master, he prudently contented himself with shrugging up his shoulders, and holding
the stirrup for Don Lope to mount.

Gomez Arias briskly leaped upon his horse, and was about to depart, when casting a last look
on the victim he was deserting, the better feelings of his heart seemed for a moment to struggle
for predominance.

There is something peculiarly interesting in the sleep of a young and beautiful woman; the
features unruffled by anxiety or care, appear more soft and attractive. The mind of the gazer
scans with nicer accuracy her charms, and dwells with fonder attention on each beauty of the
lovely sleeper. Besides the consciousness of so gentle, so helpless and so heavenly a form,
sleeping in innocent security, confiding in the protection of man, and that very helplessness
of her nature, awakens a sentiment of sympathy and tenderness, as undefinable as it is thrilling
and transporting. And such was the sleep of Theodora: she was young and replete with charms,
and, alas! but too helpless and in need of protection. Her beauteous form was displayed to
the greatest advantage; the sportive breeze now playing amidst her luxuriant hair, which occasionally
concealed a countenance beaming in loveliness, and hushed in soft repose, imparted a degree
of fairy grace and delicate freshness to her charms. One of her arms was carelessly thrown
over her, and with the other she supported her head, while, unconscious of the fate with which
she was threatened, she slept on in security. And now a tinge of animation illumined her countenance,
or a fascinating smile played upon her lips, as she dreamed perhaps, like the fond deserted
Ariadné, that her godlike lover was still watching over the slumbers of his beloved.

Gomez Arias still gazed on her--he heard his name in smothered accents escape her tender bosom,
but it awakened in him no feeling of delight, for his heart had now resumed its cold calculations
of worldly pursuits; perhaps the predominant sentiment of his mind at this moment, was the
necessity of immediate departure, lest the imagination of the unconscious victim should master
the deluded senses, and call them back to life, before he had time to remove from the spot.

"Lope! my love!" murmured Theodora, and a gentle thrill seemed to agitate her, as she extended
her arm, as though she would assure him that whether sleeping or awake, Gomez Arias was the
object that predominated over all her thoughts and affections. Yet Gomez Arias stood calmly
for a moment by the victim he was deserting, and bidding her a long farewell, rode slowly and
silently on his way.

CHAPTER XIV.

               El honor
    Es un fantasma aparante,
    Que no esta' en que yo lo tenga,
    Sino en que el otro lo piense.

                                Calderon.

    Honor's a fine imaginary notion.

                                Addison.

Honor! thou dazzling and wayward deity, how boundless is thy dominion! How widely different
the nature and pretensions of thy worshippers! All do thee homage; all gladly and proudly profess
themselves thy votaries; all would resent the supposition of being heretical to thy creed,
and yet how few truly adhere to the purity of thy precepts! How few are sincere in the expression
of their adoration!--nay, how limited the number of those who really understand the essence
of thy doctrine! The sanguinary ruffian considers himself as zealous in the service of honor,
as the high minded and courageous man who has a sword to avenge the wrongs of his country,
and a heart to sympathise with the picture of human misery. All are swayed by the magic word,
Honor; for even those who affect to despise virtue, her attractions being of too humble and
plebeian a character, nevertheless pretend to revere the name of honor, as conveying an idea
more bright and consonant with worldly pomp, and at the same time affording a greater latitude
for various interpretations. Alas! this very vagueness has something more flattering to deluded
mortals, than the strict and definite term, the more heroic nature of virtue.

Honor was the idol of Gomez Arias, who appeared one of the most scrupulous in the observance
of its tenets; he could not brook a word, a glance, a smile which might seem derogatory to
the essence of its established maxims. Again, his word was sacred and inviolable. The least
equivocation in his promise to man might sully him with an indelible stain; but then he would
calmly and deliberately, without transgressing his honor, employ all his guile to deceive a
weak and unprotected female. Honor would compel him to acquit the debt of the gaming table,
even when he was almost justified in impeaching the integrity of the creditor, but as a counterpoise,
that same honor, without any dereliction of principle, allowed him to turn a deaf ear to the
claims of more humble suitors; claims, certainly more just and sacred, but far less honorable.

The rigid adherence of Don Lope to his word, was fully exemplified in the convenient recollection
of his engagement to Leonor de Aguilar. He had pledged his faith to that lady, and had undoubtedly
been a little too remiss in its fulfilment, but now that he had nothing more to hope from Theodora,
he was alive to the sacredness of his promise, and the almost dishonorable nature of any delay.

It was by this and the like sophistical reasonings, that he endeavored to palliate his ingratitude
and cruelty towards the hapless victim of his lawless desires; for hardened as he was in his
libertinism, and unjust as were his sentiments with regard to women, he could not avoid feeling
a pang of conscious remorse at the recollection of Theodora. He had systematically won the
confidence of an unsuspecting girl, and when she had intrusted him with her heart's best affections,
how was the trust requited? He had despoiled her of her innocence and peace of mind; seduced
her from her home; snatched her from the arms of an indulgent parent, and now abandoned her,
degraded in her own estimation, and a prey to all the bitterest pangs of shame and remorse,
and disappointed love. He had laid rude hands on the tender flower in its opening bloom, and
prematurely sipped the sweetness from the blossom, and then unpitying he had cast it by, neglected
and forlorn.

It required all the brilliant anticipations of Don Lope's future career, to stifle the unpleasant
reflections that crowded upon his imagination, and he endeavoured for some time wholly to dispel
such unwelcome ideas, by courting others of a more agreeable nature.

The image of Leonor de Aguilar stood before his sight in all the charms of ripened beauty,
surrounded with the dazzling splendors of rank, fortune, and a glorious name. Gomez Arias perceived
the advantages of his alliance with Leonor, and the wildest dreams of ambition danced in rapid
succession before his mind. He beheld himself the envied possessor of the first lady of the
land, the near relative of its most respected warrior, and the honorable expectant of the highest
preferment. His pride would be gratified, and his fondest desires realized. He held the cup
of happiness to his lips, filled even to the brim; he was bewildered, intoxicated with the
sweet beverage, and in the flow of pleasurable expectations, the thought of her whom he had
made wretched for ever, was soon completely lost.

Alas! the anticipation of the future will always thus overpower the recollection of the past;
beauty, honors, glory, and their sparkling attendants, were fearful odds against the love,
the solitary love, of a fond and innocent girl--a love which had nothing more to promise, nothing
more to bestow. But to return:

No sooner had Gomez Arias quitted the place, than Roque, struck by the decision and promptitude
of his master, stood silent and motionless, gazing on the unfortunate and deserted fair. She
was tranquilly sleeping; dreaming perhaps of love and joy, and Roque hesitated to shorten the
sweet illusion by making known to her the dismal reality. He felt an unconquerable repugnance
to be the messenger of such fearful intelligence; for though the valet was accustomed to the
unprincipled vagaries of his master, he was not entirely divested of humanity, and he could
not but commiserate the utter wretchedness of Theodora's lot.

But now the soft rays of evening were deepening into twilight; darker shadows stole imperceptibly
over the various-tinted and drowsy landscape, till at last all was enveloped in one calm uninterrupted
blue of night.

The superstitious fears of Roque, as he saw the gloom increasing around, overcame his feelings
of compassion, and he began to think of awakening Theodora, when the hollow sound of a horn
burst suddenly upon his ear, and momentarily rivetted him to the spot. He looked towards the
quarter from whence the blast proceeded, and with surprise and terror he beheld, at a short
distance above his head, two men, who, as well as he could distinguish, were arrayed in Moorish
attire; presently three or four others made their appearance, and Roque, now dead to all other
sensations than those of personal danger, sprung eagerly upon his horse, and fled with the
utmost precipitation in the direction that his master had taken.

The Moors, for such they were, saw his flight with savage disappointment; but Roque having
the advantage of a horse to facilitate his escape, they considered that a pursuit would be
useless. They left him, therefore, hoping that his capture would be made by some other of the
straggling parties that patrolled those solitudes.

"The base Christian escapes," said one, who appeared to be the leader.

"Yes, Malique," answered another, "but let us look what he leaves behind."

"By the Prophet's sacred beard," cried Malique, "it bears very much the resemblance of a woman.
But she moves not.--What, is she dead? The detested ruffian surely has not murdered her. Let
us hasten down and ascertain the truth."

They rapidly descended from the height, and surrounded the unhappy Theodora, who, quite overcome
with fatigue, was still sleeping.

"She is not dead; she is only asleep," quoth one.

"And a pleasant apartment has she chosen for her chamber," cried another.

"She is a lovely lady, and gentle handmaids will she have to awaken her withal," observed Malique.
"Soft and fair as one of the Houris promised to the faithful in paradise. By the holy sepulchre
of Mecca, such a morsel as this would not be disagreeable even to the fastidious palate of
our chief Cañeri."

He approached, and for a moment stood gazing over the sleeping beauty, his eyes glistening
with savage pleasure; then pulling her gently by the arm,--

"Awake, fair maiden, awake!" he said, in as soothing a tone as the roughness of his nature
would permit.

With a fitful start Theodora awoke. She opened her eyes. Oh, horror! horror! Surely she was
labouring under the impression of a fearful delusion. Yes, it must be the wild chimera of her
feverish fancy. She saw herself surrounded by a band of appalling figures, each seeming to
vie with his fellow who should display in his appearance the greatest terror.

The pale moon that now slowly arose from behind the clouds, threw around streams of chilling,
unearthly light, which served to illumine countenances still more chilling and unearthly. Strange
black eyes, wildly rolling under their darksome covering, were all intensely gazing on her;
and horrid grins, which were peculiar to those features, served to increase the natural ferocity
of their ruffian aspect. Poorly attired they were,--outcast and rebellious spirits, who had
the caverns of the forest for their resting place, and the wild mountain for their country.
The tranquil recklessness of their wandering life was depicted in all their movements; and
the cold expression of their bronzed features betokened a hardihood in the commission of crime,
and in the unwearied pursuit of vengeance.

"Fair Christian, be not afraid," said Malique; "we will not harm thee."

Theodora looked at the speaker and closed her eyes, as if unable to endure the sight. Words
coming from so terrible a source could convey no confidence; and kindness and assurances of
safety, offered by such a being, seemed a refinement of cruelty, to render dishonor and death
more poignant. A broad face, of swarthy complexion, was rendered frightful by an enormous mouth,
where large white projecting teeth seemed to be placed more to disfigure than to adorn it.
A large scar extended across the face, dividing the eyebrows, and adding new terrors to that
already repulsive physiognomy.

When Theodora recovered a little from her first emotion, she became a prey to the most harrowing
recollections. Alas! her reason seemed to return only to augment the poignancy of her distress.

"My love! my own Lope!" she franticly cried, "where art thou? Come, come and protect thy poor
Theodora!"

The hardened Moors raised a laugh at those piteous exclamations, whilst Malique observed--

"Nay, lady, if that same Lope be thy husband, or lover, call him not; for I presume he is not
within ear-shot, and can afford thee no assistance; so be composed, and yield submissively
to thy fate, since there is no other alternative left thee."

Theodora heeded him not, for she was absorbed in the ideas that crowded upon her mind. Terrible
was the sight of those mountain ruffians, and horrid was the anticipation of her destiny, yet
only one melancholy, heart-rending misfortune occupied her every feeling. She was alive to
one only calamity, but in that, alas! all the horrors with which fate could overwhelm her were
at once combined. She saw him not--the man of her heart--her last protector, and the single
link that bound her to existence. Gomez Arias was not by her side; had he abandoned her? She
could not harbour such a thought in her innocent bosom,--nay, not even in a transitory flash,
was the dreadful truth revealed to her. She was at least blessed in this ignorance, but yet
Gomez Arias was not present. She thought that her lover had been murdered, but not that he
had abandoned her.

Malique now made a sign, and one of his companions untied the horse which had been left behind.

"Come, fair maiden," he then said, addressing Theodora, "thou must mount and follow us."

"Follow you! Oh! heavens, have pity on me!"

"We do pity thee, lady, for we intend to carry thee to a place of safety, where, if thou knowest
how to use to advantage the attractions of which nature has been so prodigal to thee, thou
mayest perchance experience a lot far more fortunate than a Christian captive has a right to
expect when in the power of the oppressed and injured Moors."

"Alas! where do you lead me?" again tremblingly demanded Theodora.

"Even to our chief Cañeri; and we can promise thee that if thy charms are such as to insure
his affections, thou wilt be honored with his choice, and perhaps rank foremost amongst his wives."

"Oh! horror," cried the wretched girl, in frantic agony. "Kill me, oh! in pity kill me, before
I am overwhelmed with such degradation."

She threw herself on the ground, and fearfully clasped the knees of the ferocious Moor.

"Kill thee!" re-echoed Malique; "no, no, thou art too beauteous, too lovely. Thy grief at present
for the death of the man thou bewailest, makes thee call for a fate which some time hence thou
wilt thank me to have spared thee: with Cañeri thou wilt learn to forget the lover thou deplorest,
for thou wilt find that a Moor can love even more sincerely than a Christian."

Theodora entreated in vain. Deaf to her piercing cries, Malique mounted her palfrey, and forcibly
placed her before him to prevent her falling, as her frame shook convulsively, and he began
to fear he would shortly have to support a lifeless burthen.

Night's sable pall had now overspread the drowsy earth. The moon no longer afforded her light,
and thick darkness hung over those mournful solitudes. The listless silence was only broken
by the tramp of one solitary horse; while the suppressed gaiety of the Moors, and the deep
sighs that oft escaped from a sorrowing heart, but too plainly told the tale of violence and
distress.

A calm cold tranquillity presided over the place. The screech-owl gave one gloomy shrill and
prolonged note, and all was still again. But that sound went thrilling to Theodora's heart,
like the death-knell on the mountain blast; while the night wind blew fearfully, and the dismal
howling was rehearsed by the echoes of the wilderness.

But deserted and lonely as were those dark recesses, more lonely and deserted still was the
heart of Theodora. She was a wretched outcast, a solitary being in the world, and she lived
on memory alone. Alas! it is in the hour of distress and perilous adventure, that the voice
of memory holds more busy converse with the mind. She then tells a long and varied tale, in
which the fortunate portion of our past existence is powerfully heightened, whilst the gloomy
part is rendered lighter by the weight of actual endurance. In this hour of terror, the remembrance
of the happy home which she should never see again, and the tranquil pastimes of innocence
which she could never more enjoy, passed in rapid succession before her mind. The first dawning
of genuine love--the fervour of adoration, all were fled. The image of Don Lope, rendered still
more endearing by his untimely loss, filled up the measure of Theodora's woe, till her heart
could no longer support the pressure of so much distress. She sobbed aloud; and the tears which
fell from her eyes in some measure relieved her bursting heart. She looked around, and saw
nothing but the undisturbed continuance of wild solitudes, clothed in dark shadows; and she
heard nought but mournful sounds to add to the wretchedness of her already deplorable lot.
The ill-omened bird again shrieked, and the wind howled fitfully; whilst the moon, issuing
from behind a cloud, now threw a cold comfortless light, which imparted a death-like hue to
every object around.

While thus overwhelmed with sensations of terror at her forlorn situation, she perceived some
object of dark appearance hanging upon a tree almost across their path, and waving to and fro
at the will of the blast. A glimpse of moonlight now falling upon the place, discovered a human
figure: it was indeed the body of a murdered man. Theodora shuddered at the sight: an icy chill
crept over her, and she dreaded, and yet was eager to learn what she, alas! too well anticipated.

"The sight appears to unnerve you, lady," coolly observed her conductor, "and I wonder not,
for it is a sorry sight for a tender female, and a Christian withal. Yonder scarecrow was,
a short time since, a Christian knight, and is there placed as a warning to his fellow-countrymen
how they dare provoke the angry lion in his dominions. In each Moor will the Christian encounter
a lion;--nay, something even more terrible than the king of beasts; for, joined with the mighty
strength and fierce resolution of this animal, we have the reason and wounded feelings of men."

"By the prophet," said one of the Moors, "that Christian well deserved his fate; a more desperate
man never did I see!"

"Aye," continued another, "he fought bravely, and we bought his life at the dear price of two
comrades."

"I came not till he was dispatched," exclaimed Malique in a haughty tone, "otherwise the combat
would not have been long dubious; but you are a cowardly set, and had the Christian been seconded,
I suspect that the five who attacked him would have been disgracefully driven back: but he
fought alone, his dastardly servant having fled. Pity we could not catch the rascal, for he
would have made a proper accompaniment to his master on the next tree."

Theodora listened in frozen suspense, whilst another of the Moors observed, in an under-tone,--

"'Twas unfortunate though, that love should have brought about his death: in his last moment
he said something concerning love; and who knows but this young maiden"--

Theodora heard no more,--she uttered a faint smothered scream, and fell lifeless into the arms
of Malique.

"Give help! give help! she faints! poor damsel--Get some water from the brook."

They halted a moment, and sprinkling the reviving liquid over Theodora's face, succeeded in
recalling her back to life. Malique then endeavoured to administer words of comfort to the
distressed girl, but he was utterly unsuccessful; a settled gloom pervaded her soul, and she
discarded the very idea of consolation. Thus they continued to travel during the night, till
the first gleams of the dawning day brought to their view the outline of a village enveloped
in the morning mist.--As they gently advanced, the scene enlarged, and the shade gradually
rolling off, a little quiet town became at length perceptible, shining in the first rays of
the sun, and fresh with silvery drops of the dew. The sombre aspect of the Alpujarras began
to lose its sterner frown in the loveliness and animation of the morning hour. But alas! it
brought no comfort to the desponding heart of Theodora. Deep and poignant as her sorrows were,
she felt conscious that a yet more dreadful fate awaited her; she was about to be offered a
victim to the lawless desires of a ruffian, and an infidel. Death alone could release her from
so degrading a destiny; but even death, that last melancholy consolation, was denied to her.
She prayed fervently to heaven, and her supplications, pronounced in the sincerity of her heart,
served only to console her. No help came: eagerly she cast her eyes around, and clung with
fond endearment to the wildest hopes that ever fancy created.--She hailed with a fluttering
expectation the least sound, for in it she was willing to fancy a deliverer. The distant tramp
of a horse, or the bark of a dog, failed not to raise hopes which tended only to render her
distress more poignant by disappointment.

Her mind, worn out in this conflict, began to lose its powers of consciousness, and as they
approached the town, she gradually fell into a state of passive despair. She saw without emotion
a group of men standing at the entrance, who, in conjunction with some ragged children, as
soon as she was perceived, raised an exulting shout.

A Christian captive! a Christian captive!--And presently three or four armed Moors came forward,
to whom Malique related his adventure. They then proceeded altogether through the principal
street of the town of Alhacen, which was at that time the headquarters of the Moors, who fell
within the jurisdiction of the rebel chief Cañeri. The town presented a most dismal and disconsolate
aspect; the inhabitants bearing in their appearance a proof of their miserable wandering life,
and seeming all prepared to abandon their precarious tenements at the first summons. Indeed
the late losses which they had sustained, and more especially the surrender of Lanjaron, contributed,
to keep them in a state of continual alarm. This feeling was considerably augmented by the
intelligence they had just now received, that Alonso de Aguilar, the most renowned and the
most redoubtable of their enemies, was rapidly advancing against El Feri de Benastepar. However,
as they had nothing to lose,--no riches to abandon--no pleasures to relinquish--no comforts
to forget, the expression of their countenances exhibited a cold resignation, blended with
gloomy ferocity.

The party that conducted Theodora having traversed the town, stopt at its extremity, before
a house which appeared somewhat in better order than the rest, in front of which several armed
Moors were pacing to and fro.

Malique demanded an immediate interview with Cañeri, which was denied him on the plea that
the chief was at the moment deeply engaged in a conference with the most important amongst
the Moors. Soon after, however, a short broad-faced ugly fellow made his appearance, and with
demonstrations of joy welcomed Malique, who was his kinsman.

"By our holy prophet, Malique, I am glad to see thee return with such a goodly sport:--Cañeri
is not to be interrupted now, but thou mayest be sure of a good reward."

Aboukar, for such was the Moor's name, then ushered in his kinsman. Every one seemed to pay
great respect and deference to the little man; it was with reason, for he acted in no less
a capacity than master of the household to the mountain sovereign of the place. Meantime Theodora
was intrusted to the care of an old hag, wife to Aboukar, and a renegade Christian. She conducted
her ward to a little narrow apartment, where having placed some refreshments, she recommended
Theodora to partake of them, and retired.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME. II.

CHAPTER I.

          Though I had the form
    I had no sympathy with breathing flesh;
    Nor, 'midst the creatures of clay that girded me,
    Was there but one, who----but of her anon.

                                Byron.

      Some secret venom preys upon his heart;
    A stubborn and unconquerable flame
    Creeps in his veins, and drinks the stream of life.

                                Rowe.

In the recess of a spacious apartment sat Cañeri, indolently reclining upon a pile of cushions,
after the manner of the Moors of distinction. He was descended from a family related to the
old Moorish kings of Cordova, so that in consequence of his rank, and a certain influence which
it obtained for him, he had been elected by the rebels as one of the principal leaders chosen
to direct their enterprize. Weak, and vain-glorious, Cañeri evinced the utmost solicitude to
maintain the semblance of a splendour which corresponded but indifferently with the poverty
of his present state, and assumed an authority that ill assorted with the precarious tenure
by which he held his power. Anxious to cling even to the shadow of a Court, he had appointed
his officers, and regulated his household, with all the precision and etiquette of a petty
sovereign. The mansion which he now inhabited had apparently belonged to some more wealthy
person of the town of Alhacen, and had been studiously decorated with all the tapestry and
other ornaments which could be collected together; but the faded and tattered condition of
the materials, evidently indicated that the days of their splendour had long since passed.

Cañeri was at this moment exhibiting the capricious disposition of a vain and would-be despot.
Some half dozen miserable looking figures, who surrounded his couch, constituted his whole
retinue, and appeared completely subservient to the ridiculous fancies of their master. But
amongst these desperate ruffians, there was a man whose countenance and demeanor were calculated
more particularly to attract the notice of a stranger. He sat at the right of Cañeri, and seemed,
by the freedom of his language and manner, to possess the unlimited confidence of that chief.
On what plea he could found his claim to such a distinction, would have been no easy matter
to determine; his countenance being remarkable only for a larger share of calm resolution,
deep malignity, and ill-boding ferocity, than those of his companions. A broad and strongly
built frame, dark and lowering features, black shaggy beard, and the savage glitter of an eye
that scowled gloomily under its heavy brow, gave to his whole appearance a most forbidding
and sinister expression. Even when his features occasionally relaxed from their sternness,
they only seemed to writhe into a peculiar sneer, which could not be contemplated without an
involuntary shudder of terror and repugnance. Yet, even amidst this repulsive exterior, at
times there could be traced a few sad remains of noble lines in that countenance, which spoke
of hateful passions, long cherished within the breast. There was enough to induce the belief
that this man had originally been capable of better feelings, and worthy a more honorable career.

This mysterious being, like the rest of Cañeri's train, was apparelled in a Moorish garb, remarkable
only for its poverty and simplicity. But, though his appearance and attire bespoke the Moor,
yet the expression of his features by no means corresponded with his exterior; and a penetrating
eye could easily discover, that whatever might now be his profession, he had formerly belonged
to other creed and nation than that of the Moslem.

"Bermudo," said Cañeri, addressing himself to the personage in question, "thou art unusually
abstracted to-day, far more than for some time past I have known thee."

"Bermudo!" exclaimed the other indignantly; "Bermudo! Call me no more by a name so hateful;--a
name that brings to my recollection my miseries and my crimes. It is an ominous, a detested
sound, that rings in my ear, to tell me that I was once a Christian--an injured man; and that
I am now----"

"A valiant Moor," interrupted Cañeri.

"A vile renegade!" retorted Bermudo with a sneer. "A renegade; for thou canst not gild the
bitter potion, nor will I attempt to disguise my character. I am a ruffian; but I have pledged
myself to serve the Moors, and I WILL serve them faithfully, actively, to the last breath of
my loathed existence."

"Thy services, indeed, have been most valuable," said Cañeri, "and grateful are the Moors for
the interest thou evincest in their cause."

"Tush," cried the renegade; "thank me not. It is not my love for the Moors that prompts my
services, but my hatred to the Christians. No, Cañeri, I will not admit acknowledgments which
I little deserve. You say that I am brave and active--'tis true. I can endure privations, and
encounter dangers; but in so doing, I look not to advance the interests of the Moorish cause,
but to serve that of my revenge. No, I anticipate no triumphs; I live merely for the gratification
of vengeance for wrongs long past, but too deeply rooted in this heart to be ever forgotten."
As he pronounced these last words his frame shook with agitation.

"Calm thyself, Alagraf," said Cañeri, "since thou hast adopted that name, and art now----"

"A traitor!" cried the renegade, interrupting him. "I am a traitor to my faith and country.
Nay, do not attempt to palliate a name in which I glory. I well know the vile thing that I
am considered. My career is a dark one; and the passion which fires my heart, and nerves my
arm, cannot ennoble my deeds of valour, but may at least satisfy my craving: and that is enough--I
am a villain; but woe to the man who made me what I am. May the curse of despair, may the venom
that festers here (and he forcibly smote his breast) poison and corrode the life of him who
planted it in a heart kind by nature, and designed for virtue; but by one bad man driven to
revolting crime."

"Thy wrongs," interposed Cañeri, "shall be avenged; and our cause, desperate as it seems, may
still prosper. 'Tis true, we have lately sustained many reverses; but el Feri de Benastepar
yet lives, and even now may check the proud course of our enemies, and blight the verdant laurels
of the Christian's brow. Even now, perhaps, Alonso de Aguilar meets the doom to which his hate
to the Moorish name so irresistibly impels him. We have resources left,--our forces may be
less; our courage greater."

"Hold, Cañeri," cried the renegade; "if thou wilt deceive thyself, deceive not me,--thou canst
not. I abhor the Christians, but why should I deny the melancholy truth that is daily forced
upon our conviction? The Christians are our superiors, and we have to oppose to them, only
the desperate, the frenzied power which springs from a sense of deep injuries sustained,--of
wrongs carefully treasured up for the day of retribution."

"Alagraf!" returned Cañeri, somewhat hurt at the boldness and freedom of the renegade, "whatever
may be the motives that urge thee to second our enterprise, forget not that mine and those
of my companions originate in a cause more noble and dignified--It is to assert our rights
as a free and independent nation."

"That," sneeringly muttered Bermudo, "may be the pretext; but I will neither discuss the merits
of our undertaking, nor the justice of our cause. To me, at least, they are just and meritorious.
I seek by my own exertions that redress which my humble station could not procure, when matched
against those to whom chance, not superior worth, gave power over me."

"Well," returned Cañeri; "whatever be thy motives, thy services have been most acceptable to
us, and thy reward shall be proportionate to the value of thy assistance."

"Reward!" exclaimed the renegade, "I ask for no reward; thinkest thou, Moor, I would have been
tempted to abandon the most sacred ties of country and religion for a reward?--Thinkest thou
that for a bribe I could be instigated to become an open villain?--a thing despised? for ye
all despise me, and must despise me,--nor can I feel offended."

"Despise thee!" cried Cañeri.

"Aye, despise me; for such as I must ever be despised, though their services may be most welcome.
A reward! and what reward? Some paltry gold, perchance. No, Cañeri; I am at least a bold, not
a mean ruffian, and I wish for no other reward save that which I can exact with my own hands.
Ah! let me strew the rankest thorns in the path of my wronger! Let me throw a deepening cloud
over the brilliancy of his hopes, and envenom all the springs of his affections and happiness!
Let me make him a thing to create abhorrence, and heap upon his head the shame and degradation
that weigh me down; and when he writhes in agony, let me enjoy his misery and despair, and
hear him cry for mercy, and deny it him, as he denied it her! Oh! that I may watch his life
as slowly it ebbs away, and then in that last tumult of anguish,--in that violent separation
of the soul,--let me--let me pour into his afflicted ear my exulting voice, shrieking aloud
Anselma!"

Callous as was the nature of Cañeri, he could not suppress an involuntary shudder, when he
beheld the horrid picture which the renegade now exhibited. It was a fearful sight, for that
gust of frenzied passion gave to his whole person the look of a demon: his frame shook violently,
and as he grasped his weapon with nervous convulsion, those iron features became fraught with
indescribable hatred and revenge. But the storm passed rapidly away, and after a short struggle,
the renegade again resumed his look of dark, imperturbable calmness, and relapsing into his
wonted mood of gloomy abstraction, he recovered the cold fixed sneer which habit had rendered
natural to his countenance.

At this time Malique claimed admittance, and advancing slowly towards the pile of cushions
on which the vain-glorious Cañeri languidly reclined, failed not to present all those marks
of reverence which so much delighted the chief, who conceived them indispensable to the support
of his dignity. Malique, therefore, crossed his arms with the most abject air, inclined his
head until it came nearly in contact with his knees, and with all the outward signs of humility
made three times the Moorish obeisance. These tokens of submission Cañeri received with the
haughtiness of manner peculiar to a despot, accustomed to command respect and adoration from
his herd of slavish dependants.

"Malique," he then cried, "what brings thee here? Why am I disturbed in my moments of privacy?
What can induce thee to commit so daring a transgression?"

"Pardon me, most potent Cañeri," humbly replied Malique. "Pardon the good intentions of a faithful
slave;--I am the bearer of pleasing tidings, although in my zeal to serve my master, I may
perhaps have been guilty of indiscretion."

"Speak," said Cañeri, assuming a look of important gravity. "Alagraf, remain--I may need thy
counsel--let the rest withdraw."

"Most mighty Cañeri," continued Malique; "as my party was patrolling the mountains last night,
some of my men surprised a Christian."

"And of course he met his death?" interrupted the Chief.

"He did, after a long struggle, for a more desperate man we have seldom seen! he now dangles
on a tree, like many others of his countrymen, a fit scarecrow to rambling adventurers."

"Proceed--" said Cañeri gravely.

"A moment after," resumed Malique, "chance led us to the spot where another Christian slept
in fancied security."

"And didst thou slay the wretch?" inquired the Chief.

"No, most noble Cañeri. It was a female, and therefore I brought her here, for she is a most
bewitching creature--such as seldom meets the enamoured gaze of an enraptured lover. The rose
in its opening bloom looks not more lovely in the garden of the faithful, than this beauteous
captive. Indeed the fascination of her person is peculiarly striking, though at present the
gloom that preys upon her mind, tends considerably to diminish the lustre of her charms. Still
I thought she might find favor in the sight of our illustrious Chief, and be honored with his
smile."

"A young Christian maiden," cried Cañeri, "sleeping in the Alpujarras!--'tis strange!--how
came she there? Malique, didst thou learn? Knowest thou the nature of her sorrows?"

"Yes," answered Malique,--"she bitterly deplores the fate of him we slew. Apparently, he was
a husband or a lover. At all events the Christian people cannot boast of a nobler or braver
warrior."

"Knowest thou his name?" demanded Cañeri.

"I learnt it," replied Malique, "from the captive herself;--it is Don Lope Gomez Arias."

"Gomez Arias!" exclaimed the renegade; starting back in amazement. "Gomez Arias! it cannot be!"

"Such is the name," returned Malique, "that our prisoner gave him, and there is no reason why
she should deceive us. In troth her anguish was too deep, and her grief but too lively, to
leave a doubt of the veracity of her statement."

"Gomez Arias!" cried again the renegade, "and is he really dead!--dead! Malique, art thou sure?--did
he not escape?"

"Escape!" muttered the Moor, "his soul escaped from his body. That is all the escape that I
wot of."

"Then," continued the renegade, Bermudo, striking his forehead in a paroxysm of disappointed
passion, "my revenge is foiled, my victory incomplete. I, too, could once have taken his life;
but he owed me more than his base life could pay. Long have I toiled to bring about a day of
retribution, and now my hopes are suddenly crushed, and my vengeance wrested from my hand."

"What means this, Alagraf?" inquired Cañeri, surprised at such uncommon demonstrations.

"Is this thy acute perception!" cried Bermudo, "that thou canst not divine the motive that
alone brings joy or pain to this blighted heart? Dost thou forget that there is only one solitary
feeling that can affect it?"

"Yes, revenge!" replied Cañeri, "but then this Christian! this Gomez Arias--"

"Is my accursed enemy," thundered the renegade; "my foul wronger; once my lord and master;
and this captive, this weeping beauty, is perchance his affianced bride, the proud daughter
of our bitterest, our redoubtable foe. Yes, she must be the daughter of Alonso de Aguilar.
And yet," he added, pondering, "how came she there?"

"What sayest thou?" exclaimed Cañeri, with strong marks of pleasure. "Can it be possible? Thanks,
thanks to the holy prophet that vouchsafes such reward to the faithful. This is indeed a most
precious gage, as it may perhaps be the means of curbing the overbearing insolence of Aguilar;
for, destitute as he is of all sympathy towards the Moors, he may yet feel the anxiety of parental
love when he learns the situation of his child. Dispatch, quick; Malique, bring forth thy captive,
and ask a meed--'tis granted."

Malique withdrew, leaving the chief reveling in delight at the unexpected tidings; and the
renegade, with a countenance expressive of deep regret at an occurrence which deprived him
of the enjoyment of the one dark passion that actuated his every feeling, and engrossed every
thought.

Meantime, the unfortunate Theodora was conducted by Malique before the chief, like a trembling
victim for the sacrifice.

"Behold my prize," said the obsequious Moor, pointing to the helpless girl. "I hope it is deserving
the acceptance of the illustrious Cañeri."

The gratified Moor made a slight inclination with his head in token of approval, and then in
the most scrutinizing manner proceeded to scan the beauties of the afflicted fair, who hung
down her head in sorrow and confusion. The renegade made a movement of disappointment, when
he perceived that the captive was not, as he had surmised, the daughter of Aguilar.

"What!" said Cañeri, observing his surprise, "does she not merit thy approbation? Methinks,
Alagraf, thou hast no soul for beauty: look, look at that lovely countenance; it is certainly
bathed in grief, and defaced with weeping; but that does not detract from its charm."

"Fair Christian," he added, in a condescending tone, "droop not thus like the humble and neglected
flower of the valley, since thou art called to a brighter destiny; thou shalt flourish like
the cultured lily of the garden, for thou hast found grace in the eyes of Cañeri, and he has
the power to render thee happy."

These words of kindness, far from tranquillizing the mind of Theodora, served but to increase
its agitation.

She hastily shrunk back as she perceived the Moor make a motion to take her hand. Malique,
in the meantime, exhibited much satisfaction in having thus rendered himself useful to the
pleasures of Cañeri, and thus acquired indisputable claims to his notice and gratitude; for,
with the petty despot, as with the greater tyrants of whom he was the miserable copy, the base
ministrants to his private gratifications were generally more abundantly remunerated than those
who gloriously served their country.

"Malique," exclaimed Cañeri, his eyes glowing with joy, "I am so well pleased with thy zeal,
that I will assuredly enable thee to hold the most confidential offices near my person."

Then, turning to the renegade, who was as stubborn in his silence as the chief appeared eager
in lauding the attractions of the captive, "Curse upon such apathy, Alagraf," he said with
affected glee, "thou art a man of marble, if such a woman is not capable of moving thee."

"Yes," sternly responded the renegade, "I am in sooth a man of marble, and pity there are so
few to resemble me: better it were for the prosperity of our enterprize. What have I to do
with the charms of woman? they have proved the bane of my existence. Once, indeed, I knew their
value, but that is past, and now they are hateful to my sight: they recall the unfortunate
and innocent cause of the horrors which surround me. Moor," he then added, "abandon not thyself
to such unreasonable joy; for, learn that the hopes which we conceived from the possession
of our captive are already vanished. She is not the woman we had supposed."

"What meanest thou?" asked Cañeri.

"She is not the daughter of Aguilar," replied Bermudo.

"Well," rejoined the Moor, "we must then submit to the disappointment; but will this circumstance
detract from the charms which you see render her so lovely?" He cast an enamoured glance, as
he delivered these words, on the subject of his present delight; and then, very well satisfied
with his discretion, he continued--"I can justly appreciate merit wherever I find it; and although
certainly the creed and country of our fair guest are in direct opposition with mine, yet that
shall not prevent me from paying the tribute which her beauty so justly deserves."

Theodora heard all this with sorrowful resignation; nor was Cañeri by any means satisfied with
the success of his eloquence, for he had been accustomed to meet with a more joyous reception
from every female to whom he had yet condescended to make advances.

"Malique," he said, turning to the officious menial, "lead this beauteous damsel to one of
our best apartments, and see that she wants for nothing that I can command."

He then favored the afflicted Theodora with a peculiar smile, in which, somewhat of the ludicrous
prevailed over the tender, and dismissed her from his presence, with a gracious promise of
a visit as early as the importance of his affairs would allow.

While Cañeri spoke, Bermudo held his accustomed silence, but he could not disguise his contempt
when he perceived the Moor so completely engrossed with the pursuit of his selfish gratification,
at a time when affairs of such magnitude were at stake.

"Cañeri," he cried sullenly; "it appears to me that our cause is not likely to derive any great
advantage from the possession of that Christian."

"A mind," replied Cañeri, with an assumption of gravity, "a mind harassed with numerous cares,
necessarily requires some relaxation.--To thee alone, as a friend, do I speak in these terms
of confidence; to any other, I would not condescend to afford the shadow of explanation regarding
what may appear strange in my conduct; my actions must not be subjected to the scrutiny of
any one."

As he said this, he looked around with an air of offended dignity, as though a signification
of his will were sufficient to command respect and obedience; while the renegade made no other
reply than a smile of derision.

Cañeri now summoned around him his principal officers, and happy in the beggarly retinue that
attended him, he paraded the wretched town of Alhacen, the capital of his scanty dominions.
This was more for idle display, than for the purpose of taking vigorous and efficient measures
to check the course of the Christians. The garrison was drawn out in the Plaza[27] to be reviewed
by their commander. They amounted to about eight hundred men, but exhibited a miserable appearance,
both with regard to arms and equipment. He harangued them upon the glory of their cause, and
exhorted the chiefs to a rigid observance of their duty. Having thus terminated this singular
exhibition to his entire satisfaction, he returned with the same parade to his humble mansion,
which, in compliment to its illustrious inhabitant, was now dignified with the title of the palace.

CHAPTER II.

    Mais puisque je naquis, sans doute il falloit nâitre;
    Si l'on m'eut consulté, j'aurais refusé l'être.
    Vains regrets! Le destin me condamnoit au jour,
    Et je viens, o soleil! te maudire à mon tour.

                                Lamartine.

                                Lord Byron.

Returned to his dwelling, Cañeri seated himself to his repast, which, though frugal in the
extreme, was nevertheless served with all the etiquette of a sovereign. The taciturnity of
the renegade was if possible more marked than ever, nor could he be prevailed upon to partake
of the food which was before them. Cañeri felt an invincible desire to dive into the mysterious
history of his confidant; an attempt which he had already frequently made, but always unattended
with success. As soon, therefore, as their meal was finished, he dismissed the attendants,
and turning to the renegade in the most friendly manner--

"Alagraf," he said, "cheer up; let not thy noble spirit droop: think on our cause, and rouse
thy energies in proportion to the danger which surrounds us."

"Danger!" cried the renegade, "talk not to me of danger--I am reckless now of consequences;--what
is the whole world to me? My hated, my detested enemy is no more;--the only longing of my life
is thwarted, and I can feel no longer any interest in the pursuits of man."

"Surely!" exclaimed Cañeri, somewhat alarmed, "thou dost not mean to abandon our cause!"

"Moor!" replied the renegade, in a voice of thunder, his eyes flashing, and his brows assuming
an additional sternness--"Moor! is it to me thou darest hold such language? Thinkest thou that
being once a traitor, my whole existence must be made up of treasons? Suspicious man, know
me better; I am a dark and accursed villain; hateful alike to Christian and Moor, but yet I
am no deluded wretch, that will stoop to swerve from the path he has once resolved to follow."

"Calm thy temper, Alagraf," said Cañeri, interposing; "I meant not to offend thee, and if I
have, I pray thy indulgence: thou art sensible of the friendship which unites us; it is from
the zeal of that friendship, that I continually urge the questions which thou seemest to avoid.
Great must be the nature of thy sufferings, and powerful the motive which provokes such unusual
signs of emotion; yet surely some consolation might be found in trusting thy secret to the
bosom of a comrade."

The renegade remained silent for a few minutes; then, as if suddenly adopting a fresh resolution--

"Cañeri," he said, "oft has thine officious zeal, or weak curiosity, fatigued my ears with
repeated questions that are daggers to my soul. I will now satisfy thy craving; yes, I will
unravel the mystery that hangs around my head. By this concession I may perhaps acquire the
right to brood over my wrongs and misfortunes undisturbed and unmolested in future.

"Cañeri," he continued, "all the calamity which is now the portion of the man that stands before
thee--all the struggles, the racking throes that torture this seared breast, arise from one
solitary cause--the offspring of one crime, and of that crime the unhappy victim who suffers
by it is innocent. The rites of religion never blessed my mother's bridal bed, and I was born
a thing despised, looked down upon by the proud ones of the land, pointed at by the urchins,
and even taunted by the beggar as he went his rounds. But nature, that made me a thing to be
contemned, gave me no feelings congenial to such a state. I was endowed with sentiments more
noble, and greater powers of mind than those who affected to spurn me. I know not my father,
nor was I ever anxious to learn a name to me so full of misery, and which could claim no other
token from his child than a malediction. This much I learnt--that my parent was a nobleman;
but what unnatural cruelty could induce him to abandon his offspring, I never was able to determine.
I was brought up a retainer in the house of the sire of my bitter foe, Don Lope Gomez Arias,
where I was subjected to indignities at which my proud nature revolted, whilst the obscurity
of my birth powerfully contributed to exasperate those feelings already too much excited by
repeated contumelies and scorn. Wherever I turned my eyes I discovered a dreary waste in the
midst of society; for I was an outcast, and I felt no sympathy with the uses of the world.
Chance made me a wretch, and nature unkindly gave me feelings and sentiments to heighten the
misery to which my existence was doomed. Alas! my dark and repulsive exterior gave an additional
motive to justify the dislike with which I was generally beheld.

"Such a life," interrupted Cañeri, "must have been insupportable."

"It might," nobly answered the renegade, "to a weak mind--not to mine, for the very injustice
of my fate gave me courage to support it. I rose superior to my misfortunes, and nourished
a sensation of mixed hatred and contempt towards my kind: I assiduously nurtured sentiments
calculated to make me believe myself independent in the bosom of slavery and degradation.--Yes,
I had a beam of cheering hope, a wild and romantic emulation, a noble ambition, to acquire
by my own deeds, my daring exertion, that which was denied me by the combined oppositions of
birth and station. My pretensions were supported by my pride, and spread a solitary but brilliant
light amidst the darkness with which my existence was clouded. In these sentiments I grew,
hated and abhorring, despising and contemned. The springs of my heart, which would have sympathised
with human nature, seemed to have been dried up for ever. I found myself incapable of any kindly
feeling, and my whole being was wrapped in that dismal and isolated gloom which, like the mephitic
vapour, tended to paralyze the exertions and blight the fair prospects of life. Alas! I was
mistaken; for, to my misfortune, I eventually discovered that I was a man, subject to the weakness
of human nature, that the depths of my heart, which I had judged impenetrable to the influence
of the softer passions, were soon to be deeply stirred, and that I was fated to experience
those sentiments which I had proudly imagined to be foreign to my nature.

"Amongst the numberless beings who conspired to render me wretched--amongst the many whom I
was forced to look upon more as natural foes than fellow-creatures, there was one who first
beheld me with a genuine and heavenly feeling of compassion, and from that sweet and pure emanation
of sensibility soon sprung the most tender and devoted attachment. This being, generous and
kind, this solitary exception to the overwhelming mass of hatred that encompassed me, for whose
dear sake alone I might forgive my parents for the miserable life they bestowed upon me--this
being was a woman--a woman, alas! for our mutual woe! She was as abundant in personal attractions
as she was rich in mental beauty. She loved, aye! she devotedly loved the unhappy Bermudo,
the wretched outcast, from whom every one else recoiled. She loved him, and she found in that
dark form, in that being so degraded and despised, a heart capable of feeling and estimating
a genuine passion. Yes, in this desolate wilderness of my heart, not all was then barren, and
the kindly feelings sowed by her hand took root and budded forth; I fostered them, and they
flourished as vigorously as if they had been cast in a more generous mould. I loved her! Oh,
Anselma! Five years have passed since that dreadful moment, but yet the bloody scene is glowing,
burning in my memory. I see thy mangled form, thy beauteous limbs broken, and thy long dishevelled
hair clotted with gore. Anselma! Anselma! I did not follow thee to thy untimely grave, for
I had to plan and accomplish the deed of vengeance.--I cannot weep: the sad fountains of these
eyes are long since dry, but my scorched heart still weeps with tears of blood, when the scenes
of thy youth, thy love, and thy horrid fate crowd upon my agonized recollection."

The renegade could not proceed; his agitation became terrible, and all the occurrences of his
past life were busy in distorting those features and adding to their natural ferocity. Cañeri
looked aghast, for his frivolous soul could not easily comprehend the nature of an attachment
so fervent, so deeply rooted, as to produce the violent effects which he now witnessed. But
his wonder increased as he perceived that gust of uncontroulable passion gradually subside
and give place to a kinder emotion than he thought congenial to the being that stood before
him. The renegade was again calm. A tear stood trembling in his eye, and that pitying drop
spoke of affections long subdued, but not entirely extinct in the breast of him who had but
few tears to bestow. Soon, however, his glassy eyes were fixed, and as Bermudo raised mechanically
his long sinewy fingers to his burning forehead, his countenance became the index of a mind
engaged in scenes far away. It was a deep though momentary abstraction, for as Cañeri gazed
in amazement, the renegade awoke from his trance, and became aware of the notice which his
emotion had excited. He felt ashamed that a token of weakness should have betrayed him before
man, and with a strong exertion strove to smother the commotion which swelled his breast. He
dashed away the drop that fain would soften the lurid expression of his eye. His pride succeeded
in the conflict: soon that lip recovered its sardonic curl, and his features relapsing into
their calm and gloomy ferocity, he then proceeded--

"Gomez Arias, upon whom nature had lavished her choicest gifts, only as the means of following
with greater success his licentious courses--Gomez Arias saw the beautiful Anselma. Her attractions
and innocence could not escape his observation, and he marked her out for his prey. Curse the
day his wily smile first lighted on the unfortunate girl!"

"She did not then," interrupted Cañeri, "fall into the snare of the seducer?"

"No," firmly replied the renegade, "she did not; but the gentle creature knew too well how
boundless was the power of her persecutor, and trembled to provoke its influence--not for her
own sake, but for mine. Our mutual inclination was no longer a secret; and my presumption in
crossing the will of my arrogant master, would have been attended with inevitable ruin. Anselma,
sensible of our dangerous position, carefully endeavoured to avoid the threatened storm. It
was all in vain; her tears fell fast, and her prayers were uttered in all the fervour of desolate
grief; but the barbarian saw those tears unmoved, and heard her piteous expostulations with
the coldness of a villain. Nay, he felt exasperated at the resistance with which his wishes
were opposed by one whom his pride naturally led him to consider as affording an easy conquest.
He had been accustomed, in his shameful career, to meet with little or no opposition; he was
base enough to doubt the very existence of female virtue; and was it for a poor humble girl,
born his dependant, an orphan from her childhood, and clinging to no other protection than
that which could be afforded by such a thing as I, to contradict the vile opinion which the
proud patrician entertained?

"Cañeri, I will no longer dwell on this subject. Gomez Arias at length resolved to accomplish
by a vile contrivance, what he could not obtain by seductive persuasion. I was despatched on
a trifling commission to one of his estates, my presence being an obstacle to his designs;
for poor and despised as I was, Gomez Arias nevertheless looked upon me with a feeling of dread.
He could crush the reptile, but he feared the sting. I was strong in my very weakness, for
as I had but one solitary motive to link me to life; that being removed, my oppressor felt
aware my life would then only serve as the price by which I was to purchase revenge.

"I was absent, when one of his miscreants administered some deleterious beverage to the unsuspecting
Anselma, the effects of which answered to their utmost extent the wishes of the libertine.
An irresistible lethargy oppressed the senses and rendered powerless the limbs of the helpless
victim. In that state she was borne to the couch of her undoer, and by a stratagem worthy of
the monster by whom it was invented, Gomez Arias triumphed over her passive unconscious form.
Happy, happy if the unnatural slumber in which Anselma was immersed, had subsided into the
sleep of death. But no, she awoke--she returned to life, only to curse that life which was
now covered with degradation. Alas! she had no one to whom she could fly, and under whose fostering
kindness she might hide her shame; she had no refuge left--none but death, the last shelter
of virtuous woman betrayed. She spurned with indignant pride the glittering offers of the miscreant
who wrought her ruin. She recoiled with abhorrence from his loathsome caresses; cursed in bitter
agony his unmanly deed, and brooded over her misfortune, until the loss of her reason followed
the profanation of her person."

Again the renegade stopt in his recital, as if unable to sustain the painful recollection,
and after a pause he continued:--

"Evening was falling as I returned from my distant mission. My heart felt unusually heavy and
desponding; as I was passing near a precipice in these very mountains, my ear was struck with
the hum of voices, mingled with the discordant shrieks of birds of prey which issued from the
abyss below. Presently a flight of those ominous birds came screaming on high, as if scared
by some unwelcome intruders, and the hum of voices was converted into a long, piercing, and
promiscuous lamentation. With as much activity as the perilous nature of that precipice would
permit, I hastened towards the spot, and soon perceived the melancholy cause of the wailings
that had arrested my course. Some peasants were with difficulty dragging from that frightful
abyss a burthen, which, as well as I could distinguish from the distance, appeared a human
body. I approached nearer, and found that it was in reality a human--a mangled corpse!--It
was that of my Anselma!"

"Oh, horror!" exclaimed Cañeri, in chilled amazement.

"It was Anselma," gloomily repeated Bermudo; "my love, my only happiness in this accursed world.
She had already been dead sometime. Her slender garments were rent, her long tresses torn and
stained with blood, and her delicate limbs broken and mangled with the fall. Alas! her beautiful
features were now scarcely discernible; the raven had plucked at those eyes that once beamed
with affection, and the hungry vulture had lacerated the pure heart, that hallowed shrine of
innocence and love and virtue. I did not weep, nor did I utter a single groan; no sign of grief
escaped me. No,--the springs of my heart were instantaneously frozen, and with horrified stupor
I gazed on the ghastly spectacle. Suddenly my whole frame underwent a revolution. I felt a
dreadful pressure on my heart,--a ball of fire seemed rolling in my brain. It was torture intense;
the pangs of frenzied agony came over me, and for a time I knew not what I did; but the tempest
of passion gradually subsided, and my soul became fixed in that settled and sombre mood, which
has been to me as a second nature since that dreadful event.

"The sad remains of the lovely Anselma were consigned to the kindred earth, and I hastened
to learn the cause of the appalling fate, which my boding heart already but too faithfully
foretold. I hurried to the mansion of Gomez Arias; the truth was soon revealed, but I felt
no surprise--I was prepared for the dire intelligence. I reproached Gomez Arias in the most
bitter and provoking terms; he answered me with the laugh of contempt. I laid my hand on my
sword--he smote me on the face. Furiously I drew the mortal weapon, but was soon overpowered
and disarmed by the numerous attendants of my foe. I applied for redress--for justice. I denounced
my enemy as the murderer of Anselma. It was all in vain; justice affected to be deaf to my
earnest and reiterated appeal. Alas! what redress could I obtain against so powerful an enemy?
His constant good fortune had raised him in the estimation of the court; he was brave, victorious
in various encounters against the Moors in the war of Granada. His services were rewarded;
his crimes overlooked; and I with the sting of shame and revenge and disappointment rankling
in my heart, determined to extort with my own hands that redress which the justice of my country
had denied me. I made a world to myself in the solitude of my now desolate feelings. Severed
from every pursuit, a stranger to every natural tie, I resolved to dedicate all the resources
of my soul to the prosecution of the most exemplary revenge. Ever since that time, I have,
under the cover of various disguises, hovered about his path, and I had once an opportunity
of partly satiating my thirst of revenge; but I let it pass, because the draught would not
half satisfy my fevered longing for deeper retribution. It was in the embrace of a deep slumber
that I once saw Gomez Arias, and I hovered over his devoted head with the pleasure of the vulture
that sees beneath him its defenceless prey."

"And why didst thou not slay him?" inquired Cañeri.

"No!" replied the renegade, "I would not kill him then, for that were no revenge; his soul
would flee from this world without the knowledge that it was I--it was Bermudo that inflicted
the wound. I did not kill him; I reserved his hated life for more exquisite tortures--a more
appalling fate, with all the harrowing attendants of remorse and despair."

"And what probability was there afterwards," demanded the Moor, "of prosecuting your intentions
with success?"

"That," returned the renegade, "was the constant object of my meditation; but alas! the whole
study of my existence is now rendered useless by the unexpected death of my enemy. However,
I joined your cause from hatred to the injustice of my countrymen. That hatred still burns,
and I will yet find means for vengeance in the detested blood of Christians. Moor," he then
added, with sternness, "I am sunk low, low in the depths of crime, and this is thy best security
for my constancy to the desperate course I have adopted. My life is solitary and independent,
reckless of all results. Lead then to the combat, and where slaughter stains the way, and where
shrieks and groans encumber the air, where death is busiest, there! thou mayest exultingly
cry, there is the renegade!"

As Alagraf delivered these words, he suddenly withdrew, leaving the Moor plunged in astonishment.
Cañeri, however, was soon aroused from his train of reflection by a consciousness of the importance
of his station. He prudently judged that too much of his valuable time had already been devoted
to a matter of individual interest. He started therefore from his couch, summoned his various
officers, and inquired with minute accuracy into the state of every thing in the palace. Satisfactory
answers were returned, and the chief received the communications with a demeanor appropriately
grave and dignified. He next paraded the town with a display of importance that might well
have amused his followers, if indeed they had been capable of feeling anything but concern
in their destitute situation.

Again Cañeri returned to his dwelling, and a discussion was entered into with respect to the
several articles that composed his dress: his faded turban was retrimmed; his couch arranged
with the greatest care, and odoriferous shrubs burnt in the apartment which he honoured with
his presence. The duties of the day having been happily completed, the chief resigned himself
to his habitual indolence with all the complacency of one who considers himself by situation
entitled to the contribution of every one towards his comfort and luxury.

At the close of evening, however, his repose was disturbed by a messenger who arrived from
El Feri de Benastepar, announcing that the redoubtable Don Alonso de Aguilar was rapidly advancing,
and that they should shortly be obliged to join in combat. He implored Cañeri to be ready for
any disaster that might occur, and to keep his men prepared for all contingencies. This intelligence,
as it may be well conceived, threw the Moor into some degree of agitation, and being rather
late, he resolved to call into requisition the multifarious powers he possessed of serving
his country. He speedily summoned a cabinet council, whose opinions he would condescend to
hear, and whose understandings he graciously intended to enlighten. He pompously reclined himself
on the cushions, and assembling his courtly retinue, commenced his harangue respecting the
plans necessary to be adopted under existing circumstances. His councillors, however, appeared
in a very sorry plight to give advice: they looked at each other with woe-begone countenances,
and their sleepy eyes seemed to concur in one opinion, though they did not actually venture
to give it utterance, that the most rational course to pursue, after the fatigues of the day,
was to indulge nature with a few hours of refreshing repose. Indeed the judicious and salutary
tendency of this measure appeared to meet with such unanimous assent, that after sitting half
an hour, both the president and the sapient members of the council very leisurely fell asleep,
and thereby testified their opinion, like sensible men, as to the most rational way of terminating
a council of state.

The renegade, disturbed in the meditations into which he had fallen during the empty oration
of Cañeri, by the sonorous and unequivocal signs of slumber evinced by his colleagues, saw
with surprise the conclusion to which they had unanimously arrived, and casting a look of contempt
on the sleeping councillors, retired to his quarters.

CHAPTER III.

    Ite, caldi sospiri, al freddo core;
    Rompete il ghiaccio che pietà contende;
    E, se prego mortal al ciel s'intende,
    Morte, o mercè sia fine al mio dolore.

                                Petrarca.

          He has I know not what
    Of greatness in his looks, and of high fate,
    That almost awes me.

                                Dryden.

Meantime the unfortunate Theodora had spent the day in a continual succession of sorrows. She
had been conducted to another apartment, somewhat in better order, where she had been pressed
in vain to partake of some food which Marien Rufa with friendly officiousness presented to
her. Sad recollections of her past misfortunes left not an interval of repose, and her interview
with Cañeri had awakened in her mind a lively sense of danger and alarm. Slowly, therefore,
and painfully the hours wore away. She had no alleviation to her distress. The words of comfort
which the hag vainly attempted to administer, would have failed to sooth, even from the lips
of sympathising friends, much more when surrounded by the avowed and ferocious enemies of her
country.

This melancholy day was succeeded by a night still more dreary; for although worn out with
fatigue and suffering, Theodora could find no respite in the sweet oblivion of sleep. Alas!
the feverish slumber that stole upon her at intervals, was fraught with all the terrors that
her present situation could suggest. The phantoms of night in rapid succession pressed upon
her bewildered imagination: she saw her venerable father borne down under the pressure of grief,
wringing his withered hands in agony, and pronouncing a direful malediction on his ungrateful
child. She heard that thrilling voice, broken by age, and quivering with emotion, and on his
countenance she beheld the workings of despair. Fitfully she awoke, and struggled hard to chase
away the heart-rending vision, and then she sunk again to meet another still more frightful.
The wind whistled gloomily through the forest trees; the wild bird screamed his death song;
and a spectre rose with sunken eyes and squalid cheek, his wounds distilling blood, and his
raven locks clotted with gore. It was her lover--he had left the tree on which he withered
like the seared leaf of autumn, and stalked to her widowed couch smiling sadly in death,--she
shrieked aloud--the phantom fled, and again in terror she awoke.

Dreams such as these haunted her imagination during the long night. Nor could the cheering
rays of the morn impart consolation to her desponding bosom. She heard the mingling voices
of nature's simple minstrels hail in grateful chorus the approach of day, and she listened
to the various sounds of busy humanity, rising from the drowsiness of repose to life and activity.
But her feelings could no longer sympathise with the pursuits of this world. The appalling
images which her feverish fancy had conjured up still pursued her, and if these unwelcome guests
left her a momentary repose, they were succeeded by others no less chilling to the soul. The
heavy measure of her sorrows was yet to be increased by the anticipation of future evils--evils
worse than the terrors of slavery or death, for she was in hourly danger of encountering the
bitter pangs of shame and degradation.

Cañeri had been inspired by her beauty with a violent but licentious passion, which he had
it in his power at that moment to gratify, and this idea agitated the wretched Theodora with
the most dismal apprehensions. While she sat pondering on her disastrous fate, and vainly devising
means to avert its danger, she was surprised by the entrance of Marien Rufa.

"A good morrow, sweet lady," said the crone; "well, this is a pretty comfortable chamber:--you
must have slept soundly."

A deep sigh was the only answer she could elicit from Theodora.

"At all events," continued Marien Rufa, "you must leave off sighing and weeping, for sure enough
you can derive no good thereby. Besides, it is meet your countenance should assume a more cheerful
expression, since you are soon to be honored with a visit from the magnificent Cañeri. He has
been forcibly struck with your charms, and has signified his intentions of coming shortly to
pay his devoirs in person. So I am here before-hand to bid you prepare for the illustrious
visitor."

The heart of Theodora died within her, as the hag announced this dreaded intelligence, for
though we may fancy ourselves prepared to meet a danger with which we are hourly threatened,
yet its immediate approach rarely fails to cause an additional pang.

Theodora was cruelly alive to the helplessness of her situation. She cast a hurried glance
around, but could find no signs of comfort; yet she fixed her last hopes on Marien Rufa, this
decayed piece of blanched mortality, like the drowning wretch who snatches at a withered branch,
though conscious of the frail support to which he clings.

From the little previous intercourse with Marien Rufa, Theodora had discovered that her disposition
was not altogether so inhuman as her exterior naturally seemed to indicate. Though a renegade,
she did not appear completely divested of compassion towards those to whom she had once been
endeared by the ties of religion and country; a latent feeling of remorse lurked within her
heart, and she did not seem to feel much interest in the affairs of the Moors. These considerations,
together with the imminency of her danger, led Theodora to throw herself on the protection
of the crone, and beseech her pity and commiseration. But before she could try the effect of
her persuasion, the door suddenly swung open, and the dreaded figure of Cañeri presented itself
to her sight.

He dismissed his attendants, and waved his hand to Marien Rufa, who slowly retired muttering
some half formed inaudible sentences. The door closed, and Theodora shuddered as she found
herself alone with the odious and detested Moor.

He approached her mildly, and endeavoured with soothing words to calm her apprehensions.

"Nay, fair Christian," he said, "thou art too much dejected, nor is thy grief reasonable. The
chances of fortune threw thee into my power, and thou art now my slave: this, as well as the
circumstance of thy belonging to the race of our accursed enemies, might naturally make thee
apprehend but indifferent treatment from the Moor. I might, indeed, have delivered thee to
the brutality of my soldiers; I might have heaped upon thee all the horrors of such a degradation;
but I have taken compassion upon thy youth and beauty (his eyes glistened with savage joy),
and instead of that, thou shalt have the honor of being the partner of my own pleasures."

Theodora covered her face with her hands, and her whole frame shook violently, whilst Cañeri,
in an agitated and angry tone, proceeded--

"This contempt of my generosity may prove prejudicial to thy future fortunes. Many, many are
the women amongst the faithful who would feel proud to accept the offers which thou seemest
to treat with unbecoming disregard. But trifle not with the benignity of my disposition; for
Cañeri, though an outcast, and a sovereign only of wild mountains and deserted villages, has
yet power enough to enforce his commands, and inflict a summary vengeance upon those who dare
thwart his wishes. Remember, then, thou art my slave, and deny me not as a lover what I can
easily exact as a master."

"I am your slave," cried Theodora, tremblingly, "and it is not my intention either to despise
your generosity or dispute your power. I am sensible of both--command me the most menial services,
I will do all--nay, take my life; but, oh! spare me, in mercy spare me the degradation which
you are meditating."

"Degradation!" exclaimed Cañeri, rising with rage, "degradation! By the mighty Allah! such
temerity is unparalleled! Thy youth and ignorance alone can excuse the criminality of such
an expression."

Theodora could only answer by tears. But during the pause which ensued, the mind of Cañeri
underwent a sudden revolution; from the highest paroxysm of choler, his features gradually
relaxed into complete serenity. This alteration did not proceed from a sense of generosity
towards his victim, for he was fully determined to carry his designs into execution; but, like
a refined voluptuary, he calculated the advantages he might derive from a timely forbearance.
He was, therefore, resolved to exhaust every gentle means before he had recourse to the last
extremity.

He now took the hand of Theodora, which she had not the power to withhold, and pressing it
tenderly between his own, he renewed his suit with much more suavity of tone and delicacy of
manner. Theodora suffered perhaps more from this unexpected display of kindness, than from
the brutal asperity and violence which the Moor had before evinced. For in cases of extreme
danger, violence will sometimes inspire a degree of courage, while condescension and urbanity
from those who have the power to command is more distressing, inasmuch as it enervates that
strong principle of resistance and leaves in its place the weaker and less decisive resource
of expostulation.

But by degrees the patience of the amorous Moor was wearing away with the ill-success of his
suit, and starting up suddenly, and looking intensely on the afflicted fair, he made a last
attempt to conquer her opposition.

Theodora threw herself at his feet, and embracing them eagerly strove to interest his pity
by the intensity of her anguish. Her tears fell copiously and her sobs almost impeded her utterance;
but this evidence of extreme distress, in lieu of subduing, only tended to kindle more warmly
the fierce desires of the Moor. In his hot distempered veins raged the fever of passion, as
he saw that lovely picture of female helplessness prostrate at his feet; her clustering hair
floating in loose profusion, and her charms acquiring additional interest from the wild disorder
of her situation.

Cañeri glutted his eyes with her beauty, and his whole frame thrilled in a ferment of anticipated
raptures. He snatched the fainting Theodora from the ground, almost overpowered with the conflict
of her feelings.--As he clasped her in his arms, the unfortunate girl beheld his savage features
glistening with joy. She shuddered at their glowing expression, and with a sudden and violent
effort burst from his hold.

The heart of the miscreant swelled with indignation and disappointment. He cast a threatening
look on the trembling victim, and no longer restrained by any consideration, he again violently
seized her.

"Who will protect thee now?" cried the Moor, exultingly.

"Death!" replied Theodora, with the courage of despair.

"Death!" retorted Cañeri, with a mocking laugh; "Death! Surely thou must fancy that I am to
be intimidated by the ravings of a woman. No, thou canst not die, even if that were truly thy
desire. Thou shalt not die, at least till I think thee no longer worthy of contributing to
my joys." Theodora clasped her hands in agony; her fate appeared now inevitable. Her unmanly
enemy furiously mastered her remaining efforts; her feeble struggles were almost overpowered,
and as her senses were about to forsake her, she wildly shrieked aloud for help. At this moment
a noise was heard at the entrance of the room; the door, as if by a tremendous exertion of
strength, was wrenched from its hinges, and a tall mysterious figure stalked into the apartment
and stood motionless with amazement. Theodora uttered a scream of joy at this timely deliverance,
while the enraged and disappointed Moor turned fiercely round to ascertain who had the temerity
to venture upon such an intrusion.

The towering figure that stood before him seemed a stranger to his eyes. He was enveloped in
a long and ample Spanish cloak, and his countenance was almost hidden by a dark clustering
feather that fell from his slouched hat.

Cañeri shook with ire.

"What treason is this?" he exclaimed. "A cursed Christian in my very dwelling. Malique! Alagraf!
Where are ye, villains? Guards! Seize the wretch, seize him, and drag him to death!"

"Stay!" cried the stranger, in a voice of thunder; "stay! ere thou darest to offer the least
violence to me--nay, advance but one foot, and I'll strike thee to the earth."

Cañeri was awed by the noble and fearless manner of the stranger.

"A Christian!" he continued, in a more subdued voice, "and darest thou in my very dominions
to utter such vaunting threats? Dost thou forget that these are the Alpujarras, and that I
am Cañeri?"

"I am no Christian," replied the stranger: "a Moor, a true Moor am I, but one who blushes to
count Cañeri amongst his associates."

"Speak!" cried Cañeri, bewildered, "Speak! what mystery is this? Who then art thou?"

"Know me, then," returned the other, and throwing aside his disguise, discovered a man of tall
stature and athletic proportions. On his dark bronzed countenance there was an expression of
bold defiance and cool resolution; his eyes were lighted up with the fire of noble courage,
and although no tender feeling could be detected in his stern features, yet they were not altogether
devoid of generosity. He was a model of mountain beauty, wild, majestic, and free from artful
decoration. A simple Moorish tunic, which the most humble of his followers might wear, covered
his manly figure, and the only mark of distinction by which his dignity could be recognized
was a scarf of green, the sacred colour, and a large buckler on which was portrayed a noble
lion, surmounted by the Arabic motto,[28]

    Edem pasban derwish est aslan.[29]

Cañeri gazed in astonishment, and almost bereft of the powers of utterance could only exclaim----

"El Feri!"

"Yes!" answered he. "El Feri de Benastepar arrives in time to witness the honorable occupation
of his colleague in command, whilst our brave companions remain unburied and rotting on these
wild solitudes, and the proud Christian pursues us like the hungry tiger, giving us not a moment's
repose; whilst our forces have been routed and slaughtered by the victorious Alonso de Aguilar,
and the few that have escaped his murderous sword, in conjunction with El Feri, are compelled
to seek for safety in disguise and flight; I thought we should meet with succour and assistance
in the mountain home of Cañeri--and how do I meet him? Not ready in arms to cover our retreat;
not laudably occupied in providing resources for our dispirited soldiers, but meanly courting
the blandishments of a Christian slave. Weak and forlorn and despairing, my few brave comrades
are stretched on yonder street, fainting through want, and worn out with fatigue. I call upon
Cañeri for help, and I find that the power which was intrusted to him for our mutual defence
is basely employed, not against the common enemy, but a feeble defenceless female! Shame, Moor!
shame! But that I reverence the public voice that named thee chief, and that I desire not to
arrogate to myself a retributive justice, I myself would wrench from thee that command which
thou shamest, and entrust it to the hands of men more worthy."

Cañeri remained some time speechless and abashed. Amazement, confusion and terror alternately
occupied his distracted mind; the taunts and rebukes which El Feri had so lavishly bestowed,
roused his anger almost to madness. His heart boiled in a frenzied ebullition to which he durst
not give utterance, for he well knew that he himself would be the first victim of its explosion.
Convulsed with rage at the imagined insult, he seemed ready to dart upon the arrogant censor
of his actions, but the tremendous power of his fellow-chief suddenly paralyzed his arm. It
was the fierce mastiff burning to rush upon the terrible bull, yet restrained by the conscious
superiority of the noble animal.

Twice the hand of Cañeri was involuntarily directed towards his dagger, and twice some sudden
recollection seemed to arrest its progress. And then he strove to conceal the incautious movement
from the eagle eye of El Feri; but the inward workings of his soul were easily detected by
the keen penetration of that chief. He stood unmoved, and whilst a sardonic smile curled his
lip, he said in a voice of dreadful import----

"Cañeri, thou darest not. I see thy dastardly intention, but thou hast not the boldness to
practise what thy heart has the baseness to dictate:--another such a movement, and thou liest
a corpse at my feet."

As he uttered these last words, his brow was darkened, and his eye flashed with indignation.
Cañeri, if somewhat deficient in the manly virtues of a warrior, was amply compensated by the
crafty dexterity of a dissembler, and he now perceived the policy of hailing as a friend the
man whom he dared not defy as an enemy: he therefore with a mighty exertion stifled his emotion,
and his whole appearance became calm and composed. Indeed an expression of mixed repentance
and candour varnished his wily and tortuous features, as he proceeded to greet El Feri with
words of amity and companionship.

"Forgive," he said, "the unwary ebullition of transient displeasure. Thou knowest the sincerity
of my sentiments towards El Feri. But, were these even to be doubted, the welfare of the Moorish
cause imperiously requires the sacrifice of all private resentment amongst its chiefs."

"Yes," returned El Feri, "the welfare of the Moorish cause requires union and amity between
the chiefs, but these are not the only virtues necessary to render it successful."

He uttered these words in a significant tone, which could not be misconstrued, but to which
Cañeri pretended not to give any interpretation.

"Is then our danger so imminent?" he inquired.

"This very day," replied El Feri, sadly, "this very day perhaps our fate will be decided. The
victorious army of Aguilar is rapidly advancing against us. We have been completely routed
at Gergal, by forces superior in number and discipline, and the few who have escaped the slaughter
are indebted for their safety to their knowledge of the mountain passes. We have no time to
spare; our men must be instantly put in a state of defence or we shall be surprised unprepared:
the hidden situation of this place affords no security, since a traitor Moor is the guide of
the Christians; and to his perfidy is chiefly to be ascribed our late discomfiture."

This intelligence threw Cañeri into some confusion, but he soon recovered that coolness and
presence of mind which constituted his resources in cases of emergency, and which made up for
his moderate share of personal courage.

"Friend," he cried; "it is enough--let us act."

He was on the point of sallying forth, when he was startled by a confused murmur from without,
and presently a Moor rushed in, with all the symptoms of fear and alarm.

"Buzcur, what means this trepidation?" demanded Cañeri.

"The Christians are in sight," replied Buzcur.

"The Christians! The Christians!" echoed a hundred voices.

"Let us haste then, and prepare for our defence," exclaimed El Feri; and he rushed forward
without even noticing Theodora, for his thoughts were too much engrossed by the public weal.

Cañeri saw him depart with visible pleasure; for though the danger appeared great, yet he did
not lose sight of his expected prey, and casting a fierce look on the affrighted girl, he exclaimed----

"The next time we meet, thou shalt not escape me thus."

Then having with promptness secured all her means of evasion, he hastened to join El Feri de
Benastepar and his companions.

The feelings of Theodora at this unexpected event were thrown into the highest excitement.
Hope now resumed its sway, though mingled with doubt and fear, for the sudden transition from
a state of hopeless despair to that of comparative safety, is ever attended with a misgiving
of its reality. Her deliverance from the power of the Moors appeared almost certain; the name
of Aguilar was the harbinger of victory; yet the anticipation of her rescue caused so powerful
a revulsion of feeling, that Theodora nearly sunk under its pressure. When she had a little
recovered, she perceived, however, more clearly, that her destiny was still involved in threatening
clouds. The Christians came, but they might be vanquished. The name of Alonso de Aguilar conjured
up the brightest hopes, but that of El Feri gave rise to as many fears.

Thus the heart of the afflicted girl fluctuated between pain and pleasure, when the clangor
of trumpets, the tramp of horses, and all the imposing sounds of military preparations, announced
to her the speedy arrival of the eventful crisis.

In that awful moment her ideas piously reverted to heaven. She fell prostrate on the ground,
and while her countrymen were fast approaching to join in terrific conflict with their enemies,
she prayed fervently for the assistance of her God in favor of the Christian arms.

CHAPTER IV.

    Le desordre partout redoublant les alarmes,

    * * * *

    Les cris que les rochers renvoyaient plus affreux,
    Enfin toute l'horreur d'un combat ténèbreux;
    Que pouvait la valeur en ce trouble funeste?
    Les uns sont morts, la fuite a sauvé tout le reste.

                                Racine.

    Morir famosos ó vencer valientes
    Pompa triunfal ó decorosa pira
    Solo os aguarda.

                                Ercilla.

Great was the confusion into which the Moors were thrown by this sudden alarm: the appearance
of El Feri, however, partially succeeded in restoring order amongst the panic-stricken inhabitants,
and revived the fainting courage of the soldiers. In a short time, all the Moors capable of
bearing arms were ready for defence, whilst the old and infirm, the women and children, busied
themselves in collecting their scanty goods, and placing them securely on their beasts of burthen,
as they anticipated the probability of a speedy retreat from their habitations. They evinced
no signs of sorrow or reluctance at the prospect of abandoning their homes, for they had been
too well enured to the uncertainties of a wandering and predatory life, to betray marks of
impatience or anger at an event which necessity had taught them to look upon with indifference.

El Feri, having placed himself at the head of a brave and chosen party, boldly sallied from
the town to meet the Christians, hoping that by a courageous effort, he might check their course,
and afford time to his associate in command, the better to organise his means of resistance.
The Christians advanced gallantly to the attack, shouting their war cry of Santiago y cierra
España, which was answered by the Moors with the sound of Allah! illah! allah!

Twice the Christians rushed onwards with impetuosity, and twice they were repulsed with equal
fierceness and courage. Again they closed in the conflict, collecting new energies, and exerting
their utmost strength. Don Alonso de Aguilar now appeared conspicuous amongst his companions,
directing every movement with cool intrepidity, and animating his followers with the example
of valorous achievement; his ponderous sword, reeking with blood, gleamed on high, a beacon
of victory; and death marked his progress as he waded through the field of strife. The numbers
and better discipline of the Spaniards, at length began to prevail: the rebels wavered, and
terror soon spread through their ranks. In vain did El Feri exert his utmost powers to rally
the discomfited Moors; in vain did his flashing eye kindle; in vain did he labour to animate
their sinking hearts; fruitless was the strength of his arm in stemming the torrent that overwhelmed
them: his animating voice, as he called to them the remembrance of their country, was lost
in the wild confusion which prevailed, and the few that adhered faithful to him, sealed their
devotion with their blood. The rest fled for safety, and El Feri was at length compelled to
retreat precipitately into the town.

The Christians paused for a moment in their victorious career. They were about to enter the
lion's den; as, from the covert to which the rebels had betaken themselves, they could spread
destruction through the ranks of their advancing enemies in comparative security. The Christians
were likewise aware that the Moors, although defeated, were not subdued; and they had more
to fear from their treacherous ambuscade, than from their courage in open fight.

In the mean time, El Feri succeeded in rallying his scattered forces, and in conjunction with
those of Cañeri, prepared for a second encounter: he had, however, taken care to distribute
the most expert of his adherents in concealed situations, whence they could more effectually
annoy the Christians with their missiles. These hidden foes proved extremely fatal to the Spaniards;
blows dealt with security, and from invisible hands, laying prostrate many of their gallant
soldiers. Don Antonio de Leyva had penetrated into the town, with the unrestrained impetuosity
of youth, reckless of all danger; but El Feri and Cañeri disputed their ground inch by inch,
whilst the renegade, in another quarter, was making dreadful havoc amongst his former fellow-countrymen.

Night had now began to lour, but the fury of the combatants, instead of abating, seemed to
acquire additional power, in proportion as death reduced their numbers. The Moor and the Christian
fell, but immediately their places were supplied by others, equally ready to lay down their
lives at the shrine of victory or revenge. The town of Alhacen was now become the scene of
indiscriminate carnage, and on every side death appeared busy in counting its victims. The
Christians, however, advanced slowly, in consequence of the destruction dealt amongst them
by the shafts of their concealed adversaries, who had converted every house into a fortress,
whence they could with difficulty be dislodged. In order, therefore, to foil this deadly warfare,
they had recourse to a still more terrible expedient: they applied the blazing torch to the
inflammable habitations of their enemies; a rising gale seconded their intentions, and the
greedy flames spreading widely round, the town was soon enveloped in one promiscuous conflagration.
Large volumes of red foggy flame pierced at intervals through the dense columns of smoke that
rose in undulating sweep, flinging around a pestilential suffocation; whilst the shrill screams
of the women, the cries of the wounded, the despairing shouts of the defenders, the howling
of the blast, and the crackling of the raging blaze, united in one wild reverberation, that
seemed to strike dismay into the heart of the bravest.

But the frenzied courage of the Moors, instead of yielding, acquired new impetus when they
beheld their dwellings a prey to the ravenous flames. Furiously they fought by the light of
the conflagration, and as the fitful wind flung high the clouds of smoke, and the unresisting
fire assumed the mastery, you might see by their dark reflection the grim visages of the infuriate
foes distended with rage, and each arm with fearful grasp raising the deadly weapon, flashing
upon his adversary: then they were all again concealed in the wreathing folds of the impervious
fog which closed upon them.

The principal street of the town now presented a ruinous and desolate aspect; both parties
were concentrating their efforts in this spot, and here the combat raged with the greatest
violence. Again the blast swept along, bearing before it the masses of black suffocating vapour,
but in a clearer interval the eagle glance of Alonso de Aguilar had descried the terrible form
of El Feri, now animating his followers, and now darting amongst the foremost of the assailants.
He eagerly rushed forward to encounter hand to hand the formidable enemy of the Christians,
crying aloud,----

"Turn, rebel Moor; turn, traitor, and receive thy reward from the sword of Alonso de Aguilar."
El Feri readily obeyed the summons, and springing upon his enemy, with his uplifted weapon
he dealt a tremendous blow on the shield of Aguilar and almost clove it asunder. A furious
combat ensued, the results of which were soon lost in a huge mass of smoke. But now a wild
cry rent the air; it was the death knell of the Moors, that rung prophetic on the blast--hope
affrighted fled from their hearts, for El Feri had fallen. The mighty chief drew his stern
features into a condensed expression of resolute despair; his face assumed an ashy hue, and
his frozen lip curled with an expression of scornful defiance. Dimly but ferociously his eyes
were bent on his conqueror, whilst his sinewy hand grasped firmly the weapon it could no longer
wield. The gigantic frame of the Moor was convulsed, and his soul struggled fiercely to recover
the lost energies of its frame. El Feri had fallen, but even prostrate and defenceless, he
seemed still formidable; for even in its ruins, manly strength and noble courage must ever
strike the mind with a sensation of awe.

Don Alonso de Aguilar gazed intently on the foe now lying at his feet. A single blow, and his
country would be for ever freed from her most redoubted enemy. But Don Alonso beheld that enemy
defenceless, and his arm refused to strike, for his heart was too generous to admit at that
moment of political considerations: he turned, therefore, and pursued his victorious course
against those who were still able to offer resistance.

Meantime Don Antonio de Leyva had succeeded in driving Cañeri out of the town. Before this
chief the houseless Moors fled in confusion and dismay. By the gloomy reflection that reddened
the sky, a caravan was now seen moving in irregular groups towards the thickest recesses of
the mountains. As the fugitives who composed it looked behind, they saw their late dwellings
fast reducing to ashes; but alas! they deplored not the sight of their flaming homes, for they
who had adopted the wilderness for their country, cared but little on what spot their habitations
were fixed. They left behind pledges far more endearing, in whom their loss was irremediable,
for amongst the flying throng, there was not one who had not to lament a father, a husband
or a son, whose remains were soon to mingle their ashes with those of their dwellings.

Don Alonso de Aguilar soon put to flight the few that still remained, and he pursued his march
through streets obstructed at every step with broken armour, masses of the falling houses,
or the more distressing impediments of mangled and bleeding bodies. The fire lighted his steps
through that scene of horror, and often his unguided tread was answered by a smothered groan
from a dying man, who was still sensible of the rude pressure. He saw many a Moor, grim in
the last writhings of death, still betraying symptoms of unconquered hatred; and then he stumbled
on the bodies of his valiant comrades, some of whom he recognized,--the bravest of his band!
For many were the victims about to perish in the flames, and mingle their ashes in that vast
ruin, where Moors and Christians, separated by mutual hate in life, would be finally united
in the embrace of death.

Some of the unfortunate wounded mournfully supplicated their comrades that passed over them
to terminate their sufferings; and others, who were already deprived of the powers of speech,
sent an imploring look of sorrowful import. Aguilar saw the helpless victims he could not assist,
and his compassion was strongly excited, as he pressed forward in the pursuit of the flying
enemy. Thus he traversed the deserted and perishing town, when he was suddenly arrested by
the piercing shrieks of a female in distress.

He paused, and surveying the place, he perceived that they proceeded from a large house to
which the devouring flames had already communicated. Don Alonso boldly rushed forward; his
pity required no stimulus, but yet it was considerably heightened, when as he approached the
building, the cries of affliction were clearly distinguishable in the Spanish tongue. He darted
with velocity to the spot, and rushed through the fiery clouds that enveloped the house. He
passed the entrance--traversed the court--reached the stairs--mounted them with the eager alacrity
of youth, and guided by the distressing sounds, he at length attained the door of an apartment
which was strongly fastened. In an instant it gave way to his powerful strength, when amidst
the obscure fog that was fast filling the room, Don Alonso perceived a female form kneeling
on the ground, in the attitude of one who had abandoned all hope from mortal assistance.

The noise of the bursting door had called the attention of the unfortunate towards that direction,
and when she beheld her deliverer, she uttered a cry of joy, and sprung eagerly into his arms.
But the sudden transition from a state of anguish and despair, to that of hope and life, was
too much for her to bear. Scarcely had the lovely sufferer contemplated the prospect of a rescue,
than overpowered by tumultuous feelings, her energies faltered; the blood forsook its channels
to return to its fountain source, and Don Alonso de Aguilar received a lifeless burthen into
his arms. The danger was appalling, for the flames had already enveloped the house, and the
undaunted warrior, more apprehensive for the safety of his charge than for his own, hastened
to snatch her from the dreadful spot.

Aguilar supported the unconscious female with one arm, whilst with the other he gathered together
the light and flowing drapery with which she was attired, lest the inflammable nature of the
material might attract the fire. Thus he reached the summit of the stairs. There for a moment
he stood aghast, for the wooden steps had already become the prey of the fiery element, and
a descent appeared totally impracticable. In this emergency, Don Alonso firmly grasped his
lovely burden, and with a promptness of decision and rapidity of execution congenial to his
character, he threw himself fearlessly from the place, and clearing the flaming obstruction,
alighted on the floor, without sustaining any injury. Dauntless he pierced through the rolling
mist; he gained the entrance, crossed it, and arrived safely in the street.

But now he felt anxious for the beautiful being he had snatched from a fiery tomb; he tore
away part of her garments which had attracted the consuming flames, and in a short time he
recalled her to a consciousness of life and feeling. It was a lovely girl whom Don Alonso had
saved, for the excessive emotion under which she laboured was not sufficient to obscure the
charms with which nature had so liberally gifted her.

"Where am I?" she demanded, languidly opening her eyes.

"Fear nothing, gentle maiden," answered Aguilar, "you are with a friend."

"Oh save me! Save me from the Moors," she cried vehemently; not yet entirely aware into whose
power she had fallen.

"Those rebels cannot harm you," exclaimed her preserver, "they fly like timorous deer before
our triumphant banners, and you are now by the side of Alonso de Aguilar."

The welcome sound of this glorious name acted powerfully on the feelings of Theodora and, perfectly
tranquillised, she cried with ardour--

"Thanks! thanks! to that God, who will not forsake his creatures in the hour of peril!" then
turning to Don Alonso, she continued,--"The head of the Aguilars will not forsake an unfortunate
child of the house of Monteblanco?"

Don Alonso was struck with a well known name; but as Theodora appeared too much exhausted for
an explanation, without inquiring into the cause of the strange situation in which he found
her, he contented himself with repeating his assurances of protection.

"Duty," he added, "summons me hence, but you shall find nothing wanting on my part to insure
your safety. In my house at Granada, and from my daughter Leonor, you will experience all the
kindness that may tend to mitigate your sorrows, until you are restored to the embrace of your
venerable parent."

He then turned to one of his attendants, and proceeded:--

"Ramirez, you will conduct this lady to Granada: to your protection I commend her, and see
that she be treated with all the consideration due to the charge of Alonso de Aguilar."

Ramirez bowed, and singling out an escort of a dozen men, prepared to obey his leader's orders;
whilst Don Alonso, taking leave of Theodora, proceeded with his conquering band to join Don
Antonio de Leyva. Each took a different way, and in a short time left the ill-fated town to
the melancholy possession of the dying and the dead; occupied alone by the few wretches, to
whom a spark of lingering life still adhered, and whose sufferings were shortly to be terminated
in the general conflagration now fast approaching to its crisis.

CHAPTER V.

    La cosa mas alegre que en la vida,
    Permite al ser mortal humana gloria,
    Es la patria del hombre tan querida
    Despues de alguna prospera victoria.

                                Lope de Vega.

    Ah! che per tutto io veggo
    Qualche oggetto funesto!

                                Metastasio.

Granada now presented a scene of animated confusion. The repeated successes of the Christians
against the rebels, and the intelligence lately received of the defeat of El Feri de Benastepar,
with the total destruction of his forces, filled the inhabitants of that city with joy. Various
bands of musicians paraded the gay and busy streets, uniting their harmonious strains with
the more solemn sounds of the bells, whilst the joyous laugh, and other clamorous evidences
of pleasure, filled the air with a confused yet pleasing din.

It was amidst this tumult of rejoicing, that Theodora entered the city of Granada. Her party
had travelled slowly, so that the intelligence of the recent victory had reached the place
before them, and they were not surprised at the extraordinary excitement of popular feeling.
The animated scene served, in some degree, to draw her mind from its gloomy recollections,
for during her journey she had again relapsed into her former state of despondency. She was
now traversing the principal streets of that far-famed and renowned city, so long the grand
arena of the Moslem's greatness, now the undisputed dominion of the victorious Christian. Every
step she advanced exhibited some new object to awaken her curiosity or excite her feelings,
such as a stranger must feel upon arriving at a city so lately rescued from the possession
of an hereditary enemy.

Relics of Moorish grandeur were every where discernible; every street, every building, nay
the very pavement on which they trod, teemed with associations of by-gone glory and departed
power. The city was now chiefly inhabited by Spaniards; yet a considerable portion of its population
consisted of Moors, who scrupulously adhered to their national costume, strikingly contrasted
by its gaiety with the less fanciful but more manly attire of the Christians. The two people
widely differed in all points, though now enclosed within the same precincts. Two mortal and
implacable enemies, united in apparent friendship, paraded the streets, or tenanted the dwellings
of Granada.

The high balconies of the city were hung with costly drapery, and the turrets of the magnificent
palaces adorned with a profusion of large waving banners and gay pennons. Every window was
crowded with rank and beauty, witnessing the gambols of the merry children or the boisterous
recreations of the populace. The streets themselves afforded a quaint and curious spectacle,
for in promiscuous and gay confusion were seen the splendid apparel of the noble, and the modest
garb of the peasant; the shining armour and waving plumes of the Christian warrior, and the
gaudy fantastic habiliments of the Moslem. With them appeared the solemn and lugubrious vestments
of the ecclesiastical dignitaries, and the coarse habit and shaven crown of the monk.

Theodora was lost in wonder, so numerous and so whimsically contrasted were these various objects.
But amongst this motley assemblage there were some who appeared more capable of interesting
her heart and her fancy. She espied those who were no sincere partakers of the general joy,
and whose sad eye and clouded brow belied the accents of their tongue. Some, who vainly strove
to animate their countenances with a pleasure that was foreign to their hearts. The dejected
and down-fallen Moors were among these; for though they had submitted to the Christian government,
and admitted to the fullest extent the criminality of their fellow-countrymen, yet they could
not but be sensible that it was the defeat and annihilation of their friends and former companions
that occasioned these demonstrations of joy. Besides, they felt the pangs of shame and degradation,
rendered still more poignant by a consciousness of the superior courage of those whose destruction
they were now in some measure compelled to celebrate. To this was added the painful conviction,
that although they might outwardly be treated by the Spaniards as fellow-subjects, no true
sentiment of esteem and friendship could be awakened in the breasts of those who must always
consider them as vanquished enemies. Besides the hatred which rankled alike in the hearts of
the followers of the Cross and those of the Crescent, a hatred, which had been hereditary for
many ages, was of itself an insurmountable obstacle to the friendly conjunction of two such
different people. The Moors were therefore a prey to the most galling reflections, and smarting
under the bitterest disappointment, at the very time that pleasure and contentment alone seemed
to hold dominion in Granada.

Theodora beheld these unfortunates with a lively sensation of pity, though they had certainly
little claim to it. The image of the odious Cañeri was of itself sufficient to banish any kindly
feeling; yet they were forlorn and wretched, and this was alone a sacred title to the sympathies
of her generous soul. She was, however, soon obliged to recall her thoughts to a subject of
individual interest, for as she was doubling the Plaza nueva,[30] amongst the various Moors
that paraded about, her eyes lighted on one that struck a sensation of dread to her very heart.
It was Bermudo the renegade! She could not be deceived in his person, though his outward appearance
had undergone a material alteration. The ingenuity which had changed his dress and disguised
his manner, could not however alter the peculiar expression of his eye, and the chilling tranquil
sternness of his features. Theodora trembled, for she perceived that she had been recognised
by the renegade, who intensely fixed his eyes upon her, as though her person powerfully arrested
his attention. She turned with terror from the dreaded object, and during the rest of her way,
felt an involuntary apprehension at looking around her.

The party of Theodora had by this time arrived at the palace of Don Alonso de Aguilar, but
an entrance was not to be effected without considerable difficulty, all the avenues leading
to it being crowded with the multitude eager to congratulate the daughter of the victorious
warrior. The lady herself appeared for a moment at the balcony, gaily surrounded by gallant
knights and pages, waving her silken scarf in grateful acknowledgment of these public demonstrations
of respect. Ramirez turned, and conducting his party to the back of the mansion, sought an
easier admission by the garden entrance. Theodora was soon ushered into a splendid apartment,
while her attentive conductor proceeded alone, to fulfil his instructions to the daughter of
Aguilar.

During the short interval that succeeded the departure of Ramirez, the mind of Theodora was
alternately agitated between hope and fear. Not that she had any reason to doubt the reception
she would experience from Leonor, but she felt the painful difficulty of affording the explanation
that would naturally be required of her upon the arrival of Aguilar, whose return was daily
expected. These painful reflections, however, were checked by the return of Ramirez, who taking
the trembling hand of Theodora, led her to Leonor's private apartment. They traversed in silence
the spacious corridors of the palace, and before Theodora had time to collect her scattered
senses, a pair of folding doors were thrown open, and she found herself in the presence of
one whom her fervid imagination had almost portrayed as something more than mortal.

Leonor advanced gracefully to meet her guest, and observing her extreme emotion, endeavoured
to sooth it by the most friendly expressions.

"So lovely a being," she said, as she led the passive Theodora towards a sofa, "needed not
the recommendation of my noble parent, to be received with cordial hospitality by his daughter;--but
rest yourself," she continued, "for you must be in want of repose, after the journey you have
undergone."

Theodora, notwithstanding this reassuring tone, was unable to give utterance to the acknowledgments
of her grateful heart. There was something in the whole appearance of Leonor that contributed
to heighten her natural timidity, and even the kindness and affability of the daughter of Aguilar
could not entirely dissipate an indefinable sensation of awe, which Theodora felt in her presence.
She had been at first sight struck by the imposing and majestic beauty of Leonor, together
with the dazzling splendour in which she was attired. Her senses were bewildered in the contemplation
of so much grandeur and magnificence.

Indeed Leonor de Aguilar was designed by nature to produce those sensations in minds far more
familiar with scenes of greatness and power than the simple and unsophisticated heart of the
guileless Theodora. Leonor de Aguilar was a model of that peculiar beauty which partakes at
once of the lovely graces of her own sex, with some of the more decided attributes of man.
Her form was largely but most elegantly framed, and exhibited a classic boldness of contour
that perfectly harmonized with her stateliness of carriage. Her complexion was of a transparent
brown, mellowed by the rich rosy tint that played over it, and her large brilliant eyes sparkled
with dazzling and energetic fire. Dark glossy tresses overshadowed her oval face, where a beautiful
shaped aquiline nose, and lips of the deepest carnation, contributed to give her countenance
an expression of striking brilliancy. Yet there was something stern in the resolute flash of
her eye, and the bold curl of her lip. A slight tincture of hauteur was likewise occasionally
to be detected, through the affability of manner by which she was characterized; and in the
very tone of her voice, even when attuned to the softest expressions of kindness and regard,
there was a chord that vibrated upon the ear, which told of conscious superiority and masculine
genius. Yet these peculiarities were favorable to the commanding style of her beauty, and served
to heighten the impression which her natural attractions could not fail to produce.

"But come," said Leonor, after the first salutations, and when Theodora felt a little reassured;
"come, I must introduce you to the grand saloon, where some of the first nobility of Spain
are now assembled: I am sure," she added with a smile, "those gallant knights will be greatly
beholden to me for bringing so lovely an addition to their society."

"Your kind flattery," replied Theodora, "would certainly arouse a feeling of vanity, if any
such, alas! still lingered in my heart; but at present sad recollections too severely oppress
me to render society desirable: besides, I should feel myself lost amidst so brilliant an assemblage."

"Well," continued Leonor, "I will not impose any exertion upon my fair guest that may not accord
with the present state of her mind; let us, however, hope that her sorrows are not so deeply
rooted but that, in the kindness of her friends, she may soon find some alleviation. Yet,"
she added, "if you will not join in our festivities, you will at least be able to witness them,
without inconvenience, from your casement. The grand procession will presently move towards
the cathedral, to return a solemn thanksgiving for the successes of the Christian arms. The
queen will shortly leave her palace, attended with the flower of Spanish warriors, and all
the rank and beauty of Granada. And now, my gentle friend," she continued in a kind tone, "I
shall be obliged for a time to leave you, as my attendance on the queen is absolutely required."

She then appointed two of her maids to attend on her guest, and renewing her assurances of
regard and friendship, she retired, leaving the unfortunate daughter of Monteblanco deeply
impressed with gratitude and admiration.

Upon the departure of Leonor, Theodora drew near the window, and gazed on the moving multitude
below. The increased clamour of the populace, and an unusual hurrying to and fro, together
with the tolling of the cathedral bells, now announced that the procession had left the palace,
and was approaching. Soon after, the sumptuous cavalcade came in sight, slowly moving forwards.
A magnificent banner was borne at the head of the procession, displaying the cross of Santiago,
patron of Spain, gorgeously embroidered thereon, and followed by the knights of that noble
military order, in their grand ceremonial costumes. After them, came those of the order of
Calatrava, with their brave and renowned maestre at their head. A long train of noblemen and
knights, all martially equipped, and mounted on beautiful steeds, succeeded, bearing amongst
them the spoils taken in the late conflicts. Isabella herself at last appeared, seated on a
superb milk-white charger, with the ease and elegance of a perfect equestrian. She was immediately
attended by the Count de Tendilla, governor of the city, and the Archbishop of Toledo and that
of Granada, who were to officiate at the cathedral. The splendor of the cavalcade was diversified
by ranks of friars and monks of various orders, who moved in regular order, mingling the sounds
of solemn anthems to the notes of clarions and other warlike instruments. Then the incense
rose to the sky, flinging around a grateful odour, whilst the din and confusion of the overwhelming
throng that closed the march, evinced the interest which the scene excited in the minds of
the people.

Theodora gazed after the procession until it gradually diminished in the distance, and the
clamorous noise was gradually subdued into a tranquil and pleasing murmur. The pageant moved
forward to the cathedral, where a grand Te Deum was sung, and a thousand voices united in heartfelt
gratitude to that awful power which had been so propitious to the Christian people.

Theodora now retired from the casement, and abandoned herself to her former thoughts. The sumptuous
display she had just witnessed forcibly recalled her mind to the subject of its constant meditations.
Alas! amongst the host of gallant knights that composed the scene, the best and bravest was
not there; and the image of her murdered lover, arrayed in terror, rose sadly before the imagination
of Theodora. Her attendants, ignorant of the nature of her sorrows, but in the true spirit
of female compassion, endeavoured to divert her thoughts to more pleasing channels. The mind
may be better weaned from scenes of past distress, by interesting the curiosity, than by a
consolation which often, instead of healing the lacerated heart, serves but to increase the
torture of the wound.

The kind females, therefore, led Theodora to view the interior of the palace, which, from its
venerable antiquity, and the interesting relics of Moorish taste and ornament it contained,
afforded a subject for curious investigation. The quaint and fantastic carvings of the cornices
of the grand saloon, together with its Arabic devices and decorations, and the mosaic pavement,
harmonized strangely with the armorial bearings and heavily grouped emblems of Christian panoplies.

Theodora gazed on these warlike trophies with a listless indifference, but when she came to
a long gallery hung round with pictures, both of Christian and Moorish subjects, her feelings
were powerfully excited, and she beheld those living mockeries of departed greatness with a
deep sensation of awe. Many a picture was there which recorded the faded splendour of the Moslems.
Many a scene of the chivalrous tales and amours of the valiant Gazul and the love-smitten Lindaraxa,
and other characters now highly prized in Moorish legend. These scenes of private and individual
interest were artificially mixed with other representations of a more general and dignified
nature. Battles and sieges and valorous deeds of Mahomedan warriors were gaudily portrayed
by the Moorish artist, who had taken care to bestow with his pencil a gratuitous splendor upon
the exploits of his countrymen, as they passed in review under his hand. These works were succeeded
by others of a very different character, in which the Christian artist had ingeniously taken
the hint from his Mahomedan rival, and had fairly outdone the infidel in the fierce and indomitable
expression of his heroes.

These were followed by a series of portraits, both of living personages and others who were
long since dead. Amongst these, Theodora saw the mighty form of Alonso de Aguilar, on whose
noble countenance was stamped that commanding expression which brought vividly to her memory
the image of his daughter Leonor. There also stood as in life the renowned and terrible Ruy
Diaz de Vivar, surnamed El Cid Campeador,[31] mounted on his scarcely less celebrated charger
Babieca, both actively engaged in the destruction of their Moorish enemies; for it is a received
tradition that the animal had an instinctive horror and abhorrence of the infidels, and accordingly
never lost an opportunity of exhibiting towards them his patriotic propensities by the force
of his bites and kicks. There was likewise the awful and sanctified figure of the apostle Santiago,
riding like a whirlwind through the air, on his milk-white horse, and accomplishing in his
progress those wonderful and miraculous deeds which have so much embellished the pages of the
old legends, and from whose rich sources the romancers have derived such heroic spirit and
power. The portraits of the Catholic Ferdinand, and his noble spouse Isabella, were also there,
together with many other Christian sovereigns and warriors, who had played conspicuous parts
in the history of their country.

Theodora unconsciously wandered along until she had nearly reached the extremity of the gallery,
when, as she was about to return, her eye suddenly alighted on a figure that thrilled the inmost
fibres of her frame. It was him she saw, so truly portrayed and so exact in every lineament,
that the painted canvas seemed endowed with life. Gomez Arias was there; his bold demeanor,
his proud smile, the intelligent glance of his eye--all, all was religiously preserved in that
inanimate counterpart of living reality. Theodora gazed and gazed, until her dilated eyes seemed
ready to start from their orbits. The unfortunate girl was rivetted to the spot, for she felt
a melancholy pleasure in dwelling on the semblance of those handsome features. She descried
all the graces of her lover in that perfect memorial of him, and her own vivid imagination
imparted to it life and passion. She stood before the picture, till she fancied her lover present,
earnestly gazing on her immovable form, and she felt a portion of that happiness which he never
failed to create when he whispered the ardent vows of everlasting love.

Theodora remained some time plunged in a tide of feeling, painful yet pleasing, and in the
recollection of past scenes she almost forgot the horrid fate of Gomez Arias. She gazed, and
in the height of her enthusiasm she was happy; but, alas! how short, how transient was the
delusion which, when dissolved, would tend to sink her deeper in affliction! The brazen, heavy
voice of the cathedral bell suddenly broke the magic charm. Theodora started from her reverie,
and all again became a chaos of misery and despondence.

The pageant was now returning from the Cathedral, and once more the tolling of bells and the
martial strains rung in the air. Theodora, unwilling to betray her situation to her attendants,
returned to her apartment, where she endeavoured to conceal her emotion as well as the high
excitement of her feelings would permit.

The generous Leonor soon repaired to her charge.

"Come," said she, as she entered, "I suppose you will at least grace the convivial table, since
I could not prevail on you to adorn the procession?"

"Suffer me," gently answered Theodora, "to trespass so far on your kind indulgence as to excuse
my absence from the feast. My mind, alas! is in no state to enjoy the revelry, and I should
but cast a gloom on the brilliancy of the scene."

Leonor had a superior knowledge of human nature, and an unusual quickness of discernment. She
prudently considered that consolation could much better be promoted by a gentle and timely
acquiescence with the desires of the afflicted, than by an overstrained and ill-timed attempt
to obtrude gaiety on a mind that was not prepared for its admission. Theodora's request to
keep her apartment was accordingly complied with. There she passed the remainder of the day
in busy communion with her own thoughts, and bewildered in contemplating the conduct that she
ought to adopt in her unfortunate situation. Her forlorn heart naturally and affectionately
turned to the home of her childhood; her ideas fondly returned to the pure channel from whence
they had too long wandered, and momentarily overpowered the terrors which a consciousness of
guilt presented to her imagination. Her father would not discard his afflicted, his repentant
child. Her offence towards him had been great, but it could not be greater than the parental
anxiety, the fond, boundless affection he had ever shown to the only remaining pledge of her
mother's love, the sole descendant of his ancient house.

These consoling reflections happily soothed the heart of Theodora. She arose from her despondency
with a sudden start of resolution, and determined that on the moment her generous deliverer
should arrive, she would acquaint him with her wishes, and crave his assistance to conduct
her to the feet of her sorrowing parent.

CHAPTER VI.

    Così gl'interi giorni in lungo incerto
    Sonno gemo! ma poi quando la bruna
    Notte gli astri nel ciel chiama e la luna
    E il freddo aer di mute ombre è coverto;
    Dove selvoso è il piano è più deserto
    Allor lento io vagando, ad una ad una
    Palpo le piaghe onde la rea fortuna
    E amore e il mondo hanno il mio core aperto.

                                Ugo Foscolo.

It was night, gentle and serene, such a night as in the favored clime of Andalusia is wont
to succeed the sultriness of a summer's day. The bright canopy of heaven shone in passionless
serenity, emblazoned with its countless stars. The moon flung a solemn light on the tall palaces
and stately turrets of Granada, and tinged the citron groves of Don Alonso's garden with a
flood of chaste and silvery splendor. The placid beams reposed calmly and unbroken on the bosom
of the still lake, or danced fitfully on the bubbling eddies of the limpid water, as it fell
on the marble basin with a refreshing sound.

How beautiful this calm! In such a spot as this could the wearied mind taste of the sweet repose
of an earthless spirit. But hark! the breathless silence is violated by a low harsh sound.
It is the grating voice of yonder ponderous Moorish casement. It opens, and a female form is
there wrapped in contemplation; her eye is fixed, her figure motionless. She now raises the
trembling fingers to her white forehead, and reclines on her arm, as she watches, with the
unconscious gaze of an absent mind, the sportive waters as they played below. She seemed to
delight in the soft stillness, and to gather fresh life amidst the mysterious shades that reigned
around. Spirit-like, she sat in the frowning window, enrobed in shadow, and the cold whiteness
that pencilled out her form, seemed to array it with the character of a living statue.

It was Theodora--the hapless Theodora, who, a prey to the rooted melancholy that consumed her,
had left her couch to enjoy undisturbed the luxury of grief. The garden soon brought to her
fancy recollections of past scenes, and the source of all her present misfortunes. It was in
a garden, and on such nights as these that her meetings with Gomez Arias had taken place, as
well as the last interview which had decided her fate, and given birth to all the miseries
which followed. Tranquil and serene was all around; Theodora felt a wild and romantic sensation
of delight, while gazing on objects fraught with associations of past bliss and present misery.
The hallowed placidity of the blue vaulted heavens; the soft whispering of the foliage that
slumbered in the cold moonlight; the spectre-like appearance of the tall trees, which stood
partly enrobed in shadowy darkness, and partly glowing in serene and chastened splendor; the
gentle murmuring of the sportive breeze--all tended to lead her senses into a delusive, but
pleasing reverie. She listened, and thought she heard his voice. She looked tremblingly as
if in the expectation of the appearance of her lover. The thicket of myrtle rustles and shakes,
and flings on the air its load of fragrance, when from its green bosom softly steals forward
a tall and majestic figure.

Could it be possible? Or had her bewildered imagination conjured up the airy phantom to deceive
her? It was he--Gomez Arias--and as she gazed intensely, the shadow moved slowly along, lengthening
in the moonlight as it proceeded. No delusion was here; it was indeed her lover she beheld,
moving with the same graceful manner as when she saw him last in the garden of her father.
The phantom approached, not in the unearthly sickly semblance of a tenant of the tomb, but
radiant with the joy of a successful lover; his eye beaming with the glow of life. It moved!
it passed! 'tis gone--and Theodora, in the complication of her feelings, remained with her
eyes fixed, looking intently on the space where she had distinguished the form of her lover.

During some time she remained plunged in a delightful trance, till the solemn knell of a neighbouring
convent, summoning the cloistered monks to their orisons, suddenly dissolved the potent charm,
and banished the bright illusion for the reality of sorrow. The dear image of her lover had
departed, and a veil of gloom seemed to fall over the surrounding scene. An unearthly dullness
pervaded the air; the night wind sighed mournfully through the rustling boughs of the trees;
the moon threw a colourless light from behind a shroud of clouds, and the semblance of death
seemed to reign around.

Theodora could no longer sustain the dreary scene, and she hurried back to her couch, to linger
through the night in the unavailing attempt to court repose. Alas! refreshing sleep came not
to close her weary eyelids. At intervals, indeed, a heavy slumber stole over her, but so oppressive
was its influence, that she struggled hard to regain her senses. The night wore away, and the
morning dawned, but it brought no alleviation to her sorrow. At an early hour she rose from
her couch, and, as if led by an instinctive impulse, she drew near the window that commanded
a view of the garden. There, musing on the vision of her past night, she was surprised by the
entrance of Lisarda, one of her attendants. She came bustling in with an air of importance,
and apparently with a firm resolution that no opportunity should escape in the proffer of her
good services, and in the exercise of her loquacious talents.

"Good day, sweet lady! Save you, my dear lady! How have you passed the night?--Very composedly
I trow, for this is a most quiet and sequestered apartment: but, our Lady defend us! how pale
you look;--surely, you are not ill?--La virgen nos valga.[32] Samuel Mendez shall be commanded
here forthwith; for this same Samuel, you must know, is a very sapient leech, and well versed
in occult medical science, though a very dog of a cursed unbelieving Jew;[33] he shall be sent
for anon; there is no cause to fear him, for the infidel dare not use any of his poisonous
drugs to such as you, my sweet lady. The Samaritano[34] would answer with his life any mischance
to yours; and that is methinks a right way of effecting cures. So permit me to send for Samuel
Mendez."

"Thank you most kindly," answered Theodora, "but my disease is not to be removed by the powers
of medicine. Alas! it is seated in the mind," she added, smiling sadly, "and there all the
science of Samuel Mendez would be unavailing."

"Cheer up, my sweet lady," returned Lisarda, "for this is a time of rejoicing at Granada, and
it would be a pity to have one sorrowful heart amidst the revelries of this mansion. Good heavens!
we are all mad for joy in the very anticipation of so much feasting and merry-making."

"I congratulate you sincerely," said Theodora, "though I cannot be a partaker of the general joy."

"Oh, but you must," exclaimed Lisarda, "you must be glad, aye, and rejoice too;--and how can
you in troth do otherwise, seeing that our master, Don Alonso de Aguilar, is hourly expected
in the city?"

"It will indeed," returned Theodora, "throw a beam of comfort into my poor heart to behold
my brave and generous deliverer, and to pour forth the tribute of my humble gratitude, which
he so justly deserves."

"His arrival," continued Lisarda, with marvellous volubility of tongue, "is the signal of numberless
pleasures; for now, thank God and the mighty Santiago, the Moors have had such a dressing that
they will be in no humour for some time to renew their unruly frolics, and that happy event
which we have so long a time been anxiously awaiting will at last be accomplished."

"Yes," said Theodora, mechanically, "peace will be restored."

"Aye, peace will be restored," quoth she of the expeditious tongue; "peace will be restored;
and in sooth how should it not? But then that is not the only happiness in store for the friends
and retainers of Don Alonso."

As she said this, Lisarda looked steadfastly on Theodora, as if expecting to be questioned
about the said happiness, but as she perceived no symptoms of such an intention, she found
the necessity of affording both questions and answers, lest the dialogue should draw to a conclusion,
a catastrophe much dreaded by the good Lisarda.

"Now, by San Jose Bendito!" she continued in the tone of one that is most good-naturedly inclined
to give unsought-for information; "my gentle lady, I would venture to assert that you cannot
guess the motive of such happy anticipations."

"I cannot indeed," answered Theodora, with indifference.

"Well, I will keep you no longer in suspense, since you evince so anxious a desire to be acquainted
with all the particulars."

Theodora betrayed some little impatience at the unconscionable chatter of her attendant; but
the giddy maid, heedless of every thing, continued in a tone of great delight--

"So, the Lord save us! but the happiness in question is nothing less than a wedding."

"A wedding!" cried Theodora, with some emotion.

"Aye, a wedding," repeated Lisarda, emphatically, accompanying the stress she laid on the word
with a most appropriate movement of her head and hands, as the right one struck the palm of
its left companion, in token of asseveration: "A wedding," she continued; "and such a wedding
too, that the like has not been seen at Granada for many, many a year. Let them boast of their
Moorish gallantry and their infidel marriages--a fig for them! No, no; a Christian for me--a
Christian, who will be satisfied with one woman, and in truth why should he not?"

"And who is the fortunate bride?" demanded Theodora, not from any motive of curiosity, but
merely to acquiesce in the loquacious humor of her attendant.

"The bride!" exclaimed Lisarda, "the bride! why, who should be the bride?--Have I not already
told you?"

"No, indeed, you have not."

"Really," resumed Lisarda, conceitedly, "for a thoughtless silly girl, I am the most unaccountable
female in Spain."

Theodora did not attempt to contradict her, as she was certainly a most unaccountable girl
for a woman of forty.

"Well," proceeded Lisarda, "before it again slips from my memory, I must acquaint you that
the bride is no other than our beloved and most noble mistress, the lady Doña Leonor."

"She well deserves a gentle bridegroom," observed Theodora, with affability.

"She does in troth," replied Lisarda; "and how should she not, being as she is? We have had
no lack of suitors--aye, and the noblest. Good Heavens! what ado there has been about it--gallants
we have had, clustering about us like bees when they flock around their queen. The bridegroom
is indeed a most deserving and accomplished cavalier; and so he should, to be the favored choice
of Doña Leonor. However, he is not the one I patronized, and who I hoped at one time would
marry my lady--he, alas! was prevented from proceeding in so desirable an engagement, not from
any fault of his or mine either, but from an unexpected event that presented the most insurmountable
impediment to the marriage."

"And that was--?" inquired Theodora.

"Death!" replied Lisarda: "it being rumoured and readily believed, that the unfortunate caballero
was murdered by those blood-thirsty Moors of the Alpujarras; and indeed his long disappearance
from Granada makes the unwelcome intelligence to rest on no shallow foundation."

Theodora felt an involuntary chill at this part of her attendant's narration; for the similarity
of fate between Leonor's lover and her own could not but be productive of a most harrowing
sensation. Lisarda, however, continued, unconscious of the pang she had inflicted.

"And it was a marvellous pity," said she, "for a more gallant and generous cavalier was not
easily to be met with in all Spain. So gentle, so brave, so rich, and so generous withal;--now,
never did he appear before me, but he needs must force some present or other upon me; and,
indeed, spite of my shyness, I found the greatest difficulty in resisting the acceptance of
gifts which were offered in so delicate a manner: peace be to his soul! it was always a ring,
a gem, a pair of pendants, or----"

"And what is the name of the present bridegroom?" interrupted Theodora.

"Certainly he is a sweet gallant too, and in great estimation at court----"

"And his name is--?" inquired Theodora.

"Though, to say the truth, there are many others equally meritorious. It is not the Maestre
de Calatrava; oh, no; his attractions are rather too mature to suit the taste of Doña Leonor."

"Who is he?" again demanded Theodora "A most handsome man, certainly; now--but do not suppose
it is Don Felix de Almagro, or young Garcilaso, or Don Juan de---- No,----".

"Well, but, good Lisarda, what is his name?"

"Oh, he bears a most glorious name; but now I think on't, what a thoughtless, silly girl I
am; surely I was to bring you a beautiful dress, that my lady ordered for you: sweet lady,
you must forgive me; I will run forthwith and rectify my fault."

Then, without waiting for a reply, she flew out of the room. Theodora felt a strange sensation
at the intelligence she had just received. A wedding was shortly to be solemnized, at which
her presence would naturally be required, and the idea of witnessing a ceremony which would
bring to her mind a train of painful associations, failed not to increase her agitation. Then
she was lost in conjectures respecting the bridegroom, and she felt impressed with a belief
that he could be no other than Don Antonio de Leyva. She felt a dread at the prospect of appearing
before him, whom her venerable parent had chosen for her partner in life.

Theodora strove to drive away such unpleasant images, and to divert her attention she hurried
to the garden. There she walked to the same spot where the resemblance of her lover had appeared
the preceding night; feeling a strange indefinable delight in visiting a spot endeared by the
awful visitation of her beloved and never to be forgotten Gomez Arias. In the garden, therefore,
she remained some time, now walking amidst fragrant avenues of orange and citron, now resting
on the marble edge of the fountain, refreshing her hands and face in the transparent liquid,
or gazing on the clear and sparkling pebbles embedded on the golden sand. Her sighs seemed
attuned to the soft but melancholy sound of the murmuring fountain, and she was insensibly
falling into her wonted train of reverie, when she was startled by the noise of advancing footsteps;
she raised her eyes and perceived a man coming directly across the path on which she was standing;
to her utter amazement, she beheld in the disturber of her meditations the person, the very
person of Roque. The valet himself was rivetted to the spot at this mutual recognition, and
his features exhibited a curious amalgamation of sensations difficult to be defined. He crossed
himself thrice, uttered a faint ejaculation, and, with wandering eyes and open mouth, he looked
and looked again, as if doubting the reality of what he saw. Being at length perfectly satisfied
that it was Theodora herself, the unhappy and forsaken victim of his master, he made a hasty
movement to leave the place.

"Stay, Roque, stay!" eagerly cried Theodora; "thou surely dost not mean to leave me thus:--What
alarms thee? Is it my dejected and forlorn appearance? Alas! it may well awaken thy surprise;
for deep and bitter anguish has left its sad traces on my features."

Roque then approached, but not without casting a look around, as if fearful of being observed.

"What ails thee, Roque?" demanded Theodora surprised; "thou tremblest,--wherefore? What mystery
is here?"

"El cielo, San Pedro y San Pablo me valgan!" ejaculated Roque, again crossing himself.

"Oh!" cried Theodora, clasping her hand in eager supplication--"do not harrow up my feelings
with this suspense:--Speak!--"

"Good heavens! my lady, how came you here?"

"Alas!" answered Theodora, "the tale of my sufferings is as tedious in length as it has been
deep in sorrow; rather inform me of matters far more interesting to my heart: tell me," she
then proceeded, with vehement earnestness, "tell me the circumstances of that horrid event
which has doomed me for ever to despair."

"That horrid event!" re-echoed Roque, with a look of marvellous stupidity.

"Ah! Roque, it was a fearful deed, and not in vain did my heart warn me with ominous forebodings."

"Yes, gentle lady," said Roque, in a tone of compunction, "it was a fearful deed, I confess."

"And thou, Roque," continued Theodora, "thou hast to answer for a great share of the misery
which ensued."

"Alas, my dear lady! I know that my courage failed me in that dreadful moment, but perhaps
I am not wholly undeserving of pardon, for what other course could I then pursue?"

"To fight," resolutely said Theodora.

"Fight," returned the valet, "fight! good God! you would not have had me fight a host of ruffian
Moors, would you, lady? A thousand they might have been, for aught I know. Indeed, at the time,
I lost my talent for calculation, but they looked as many, and as for poor Roque, whom Heaven
has been pleased to endow with a most pacific temperament, thinking of fighting a thousand
Moors, he might as well be expected to engage against Satan, backed by a whole legion of his
infernal subjects."

"But was it well," rejoined Theodora, "to abandon thy master in the hour of danger?"

"Abandon my master!" exclaimed Roque, "válgame el cielo! Under favor, Señora, it was my master
that abandoned me."

"Out upon thee, fellow! I thought thee possessed of more manly feelings than to make light
with so sad a subject, and introduce an unseemly jest."

"By all the saints in the calendar, lady--but I am in no mood for merriment. I am not in very
truth, and may the first jest I attempt to utter strangulate me outright, before it escapes
from my lips. But really, with respect to abandoning my master, thank the blessed virgin, that
is a crime of which no one can accuse me. A man cannot help feeling shy at engaging in broils
and combats, if his star doth not propel him thereto,--and that in verity is pretty nearly
my case; but if any one is tempted to question my fidelity, this miserable carcass of mine
can bear witness to the contrary, by displaying the honorable bruises I have reaped in the
service of my master.--Alack! had I been less constant in following my Señor Gomez Arias, certain
cudgellings and beatings without number would not so continually have fallen to the lot of Roque."

"Darest thou speak in this strain," interposed Theodora, "when thou betookest thyself to a
shameful flight, at the very first appearance of the Moors, leaving thy gallant and unfortunate
master to be murdered at their hands?"

At this unexpected accusation, Roque appeared astounded, and for some time could collect no
adequate term to express his surprise. He cast a look of mixed amazement and compassion, shrugged
up his shoulders, and, in a scarcely audible tone, muttered to himself:--"Poor thing! may the
Lord preserve her--sorrow hath brought this about."

Theodora, heedless of his manner, continued;--"Alas! what was the courage of a single man against
the united force of so many enemies?"

"Aye--aye--nothing," responded Roque, "nothing certainly;--but under favor, my good lady, though
my master's courage stood ever the fairest test, yet I do not clearly perceive how he is entitled
to encomiums for feats which, though he might, he did not actually achieve."

"What!" exclaimed Theodora, with warmth, "would you even defraud his memory of its too-well
merited guerdon, the possession of a glorious name?"

"Good my lady," humbly replied Roque, "I would not defraud my master of a single maravedi,
much less of so valuable a treasure as a glorious name. But I am strangely puzzled to determine
how I can deprive him of a commodity which in my hands would lose its worth. Nor indeed can
I perceive why you bestow such commendations on the deeds of my master, since, in the instance
to which you allude, I rather suspect he was in nowise anxious to distinguish himself."

"Thy speech," said Theodora, "is enigmatical, and wherefore it is so I cannot surmise. But
his very enemies confessed that he fought bravely, and fell like a hero. Aye, Roque, they further
added, that had you not abandoned him in that critical moment, their victory would not have
been so easily effected."

"Santa Barbara!" cried Roque, more astounded than ever, "the Moors said that? Well it was very
kind of the malandrines to speak in such good terms of my honored master.--Good God! good God!"
he then continued, in a confused incoherent manner--"My lady, pray forgive my impertinence,
but will you tell me if I am awake?"

"Awake!" repeated Theodora.

"Yes, my dear lady, for either I must be now asleep, or you must have been dreaming when the
facetious Moors favored you with such an extraordinary story."

"Oh, Roque! cease this ribaldry, so unbecoming in thee when we speak of him whom thou knowest
I so much loved--when we speak of his untimely death."

"The death of Gomez Arias, say you!" exclaimed Roque, retreating with increased amazement.
"My master dead?--in the name of Heaven! what say you lady!"--

"The truth;--with these unhappy eyes did I see his murdered body in the Alpujarras:--art thou
then, Roque, so ignorant of his fate?"

"Oh, quite so," replied Roque; "this is the very first intelligence I received of such an event;--and
I suppose you will tell me next that you have seen his ghost."

"Alas!" returned Theodora, "it was but last night that I beheld his figure as perfectly as
when I saw him last in the Alpujarras!"

Roque assumed as much gravity as he was able, considering the difficulty he had to restrain
his risibility; and, supposing that the intellect of the poor lady was impaired, in a comic
serious tone observed:--"Well, my master is a most wonderful man, that his murdered body should
be food for the ravens of the Alpujarras, and his troubled spirit be haunting Don Alonso's
garden; when at the same time I saw him myself not long since, in perfect sanity of body and
soul, parading the promenades of Granada."

Theodora gasped for breath; she gazed on Roque with astonishment. The valet was in the greatest
perplexity; but thinking that Theodora still doubted the veracity of his statement, he again,
in a serious tone and asseverating manner, said--"Yes, my lady, you are deceived--my master
is alive."

"Alive!" screamed aloud Theodora, and her whole frame shook like the aspen leaf; "alive! where?
where is he?"

"In this city, and will come to the palace presently. More I cannot tell you, lady;--permit
me now to withdraw, and oh! that you might do the same!"

Roque, as we have already observed, was far from being of a cruel and hardened disposition,
and his acquiescence in the unprincipled actions of his master arose more from dread of his
character than perversity of heart. He was now strangely perplexed, anticipating the disastrous
results which might spring from the unlooked-for meeting of Gomez Arias and the forsaken victim
of his satiated passion. He almost regretted having removed the error under which Theodora
laboured with regard to her lover's death.

Meantime Theodora, partly recovered from the violent shock which her feelings had sustained,
felt a chill of doubt and a vague apprehension of evil that deadened the first impression of
transporting pleasure which the certainty of her Lope's existence had produced. She endeavoured
to give a solution to the enigma, but met with none congenial to her feelings. The circumstance
of her lover being in Granada, and apparently unconcerned for her fate, withered the budding
hopes within her bosom, for she fondly imagined that Gomez Arias could never be separated from
her but by death. This suspense was terrible, and Roque's demeanor tended to increase her anxiety.
She fixed her starting eyes on him, and holding his hand with a fearful grasp, in a voice wild
with emotion, she exclaimed:--"Roque! Roque! in the name of Heaven, unravel this mystery."

She hesitated a moment, but the very poignancy of her anguish gave her force to demand--"Did
Gomez Arias, then, leave me in the power of the Moors without attempting my defence?"

Roque made no answer.

Theodora became intensely excited, and with the piercing voice of despair:--"Then it is true!"
she exclaimed, "your silence confirms my fears!"

A ghastly smile was on her lip, and a deadly paleness overspread her features.

Roque now perceived the utter impossibility of keeping his master's cruelty any longer a secret
from his victim: yet he dreaded to acquaint her with the whole extent of her misery; he trembled
for the consequences that such an avowal would produce upon her feelings, and he knew that
with a fond woman of extraordinary sensibility and elevated sentiments, the death of a lover
might be more easily supported than his dereliction. On the other hand it was imperatively
demanded by circumstances that Gomez Arias and Theodora should never meet again; for, alas!
such a meeting could be productive only of reproach and shame to the former--anguish, despair,
and perhaps death to the latter.

Theodora, meantime, read in the agitated countenance of the valet a tale of distress more cruel
than any she had yet endured; whilst Roque, who trembled lest, by an imprudent continuance
of his interview with Theodora, they might be surprised by Gomez Arias, summoned up his resolution,
and determined at once to acquaint her with her lover's treason:--"Lady!" he exclaimed with
emphasis, "in the name of God, endeavour to brace your nerves against the dreadful intelligence
I have to communicate.--You must forget him for ever;--nay, if you consult the happiness of
all those that are interested in your welfare or in his, you will decide never to see him more."

"What mean you?" demanded Theodora, with redoubled agitation.

"Your lover is false, lady; you must fly to your parent, or encounter the peril of being immured
in the gloomy seclusion of a convent. Such were my master's intentions towards you, when the
arrival of the Moors happened in time to frustrate them. Should he, however, learn that you
are at Granada, where your presence may throw invincible impediments in his way, the knowledge
would be perhaps attended with disastrous results. I am a poor man, a butt to sustain my master's
ill humors, but I will not so far dishonor my feelings as to permit the possibility of your
being exposed a second time to the dreaded manoeuvres of Gomez Arias. Fly, lady, fly to your
kind parent."

Theodora fixed a wild look on Roque, and the horrid nature of his recital seemed to have frozen
the springs of feeling. She did not speak, nor was any passion, save that of despair, depicted
on her countenance; a settled stupor sat upon her pallid brow, and shone in the cold glance
of her eyes.

Roque was moved by the picture of loveliness that stood before him, motionless in the intensity
of grief; but he was conscious of the danger he incurred by protracting his stay.

"Alas!" he said in a soothing tone, "you are very, very unfortunate; but consider, lady, the
consequences of our being seen together. Allow me to retire, then, and command my services;
but, oh, do not by any means appear before----"

He was interrupted by Theodora, who suddenly started before that dreadful name once so endearing
could be pronounced.

"Roque," she cried, in a tone and manner that bespoke her possessed of more resolution than
could be gathered from the expression of her countenance, "Roque, I will retire; be silent,
and let me see you again.--Yes," she added with a voice of presageful import, "it is better
I should not see him more!"

She then hastily retired from the spot, and sought the way to her apartment. That feeling so
deeply rooted in the female heart--the desire of probing a lover's perfidy to the utmost, determined
her to follow the valet's advice. No, she dreaded not the most disastrous consequences; for,
alas! what has betrayed woman to fear, when she seeks justice from the man for whom she has
sacrificed all! Is it death? Ah! it is her best refuge and only consolation!

CHAPTER VII.

    Sierpes apacienta el pecho
    De una muger ofendida.

                                Moreto.

      Ah taci! ogni parola
    Mi drizza i crini; assei dicesti; basta
    Basta cosi, non proseguir.

                                Monti.

Roque made a precipitate retreat from the garden; for, anxious as the poor fellow was to render
any service to Theodora, he still felt no inclination to incur thereby the displeasure of his
master, and draw upon himself the full measure of his indignation. The valet resolved to keep
a strict silence respecting his interview with Theodora, and he entertained a belief that the
fears of the unfortunate girl would induce her to follow a similar course. Thus he flattered
himself there was nothing to apprehend farther than the danger of an accidental meeting.

Theodora meantime, a prey to a thousand distracting fears, had locked herself within her chamber,
in a miserable state of hopelessness. Tormented with various conflicting passions, she now
boldly resolved to meet her perjured lover, and demand an explanation of his cruel and unnatural
conduct; but again she was suddenly checked by an instinctive dread which seemed to freeze
her powers of action. She despondingly threw herself upon the couch, that gaudy but unconscious
witness of her sorrows, and as the briny drops fell fast from their sad fountains, and bedewed
the rich silken covering, she exclaimed--

"Yes, it was he himself that I beheld last night."

These few words conveyed a portion of that exquisite anguish that gave them birth.

It was a fearful idea: she had seen her lover a nocturnal visitor to that garden, his face
decked with smiles, and his eyes replete with pleasure and hope. He was happy, and thought
no more of the lost Theodora. He had forsaken her--her whom he had vowed for ever to love,
and to whom he had pledged his word to acknowledge her as his own before the world. This was
a masterpiece of ingratitude; and yet Theodora hoped that ingratitude, that blackest stain
of the human heart, might have prompted the dereliction of Gomez Arias, rather than love for
another. To think that she had entirely lost his love, was a pang more cruel than all she had
hitherto endured; and this alas! was the phantom which she strove in vain to chase away, and
that most obtruded upon her mind.

The loquacious Lisarda was not tardy in making a second appearance: she knocked for admittance,
and Theodora, who in her present state was but little predisposed to encourage her unmeaning
chatter, felt nevertheless an inward desire for the presence of her attendant. By her means
she could acquire a solution of the mystery with which she so much dreaded to be acquainted,
and yet was so anxious to learn. She opened the door, and Lisarda no sooner entered than with
her accustomed volubility she began--

"Well, well, my gentle lady, you must forgive me certainly; I have neglected you too long;
but then consider, my good lady, what a day this is: what with the expectation of my master's
arrival, and the preparations for this wedding, the whole palace is thrown into a marvellous
confusion."

"Say no more," replied Theodora; "you need not seek to excuse yourself; I am but a stranger
here, and have no right whatever to engross the attention of any one, much less on such an
occasion as the present."

"Aye, aye," continued Lisarda, "it is indeed a most busy time. Well, the glorious Don Alonso
arrives to-day, and to-morrow his beautiful daughter will be led to the altar by her gallant
bridegroom. Only think, my sweet lady, what a wedding this will be. The queen and the Maestre
de Calatrava, in the absence of the king, are to be the sponsors."

"That mark of the royal favor," said Theodora, "speaks highly for the merits of both the parties;
but I am yet to learn the name of the knight who has rendered himself deserving of such an honor."

She pronounced these last words in a faltering tone, and Lisarda, though a thoughtless woman,
soon perceived her agitation.

"Dios nos defienda!"[35] she cried, "what ails you, dear lady? you look so shockingly pale.
Well, it is all your fault for being set against taking counsel; now if you could but be persuaded
to admit the visit of Samuel Mendez, God knows how much you would profit by his advice; for
believe me, lady, the iniquitous Jew cures better than most of our good Christians."

"I assure you," interrupted Theodora, "that my unwillingness to acquiesce with your wishes
does not arise from the circumstance of the doctor being a Jew, but merely because my indisposition
can receive no benefit from medicine, whether it be administered by an infidel or a true believer.--So,
I pray you mention no more this Samuel Mendez, but rather tell me the name of the future partner
of Leonor."

"Aye, fortunate indeed, Señora, you may well call him fortunate, for Doña Leonor is a most
accomplished lady, a beautiful lady; and were it not that she is----"

"She is most accomplished," interrupted Theodora.

"She is in troth," retorted Lisarda, "and so dutiful a daughter withal. She is now going to
meet her noble father in his triumphant entry into the city, and she will be accompanied by
her future husband, and a numerous and splendid retinue.--But, hark! hear you not the tramp
of horses, and the sound of trumpets?"

She flew to the window, and Theodora, in breathless anxiety, followed.

"There!" cried Lisarda, with glee, "they are about to depart. Now, see, my lady, Leonor mounts--the
bridegroom holds the stirrup."

Theodora cast a terrified look, which shot a pang to her inmost heart--It was Gomez Arias who
helped Leonor to mount. Theodora saw enough--but one glance, and all the horrors of her fate
were revealed. The deluding smile which had seduced her heart, the traitor eloquent eye which
wrought her ruin, were now devoted to another.

Theodora uttered no piercing shriek; neither did sigh or groan escape her; but she silently
sank backwards in the tranquillity of horror. She had now nothing else to hope or fear; no
throbbing anxiety to forego,--no further perils to dread--the sum of her misery was complete,
and dauntless she might encounter any disaster; for this last blow had imparted to her the
passive courage of indifference and despair.

Lisarda, occupied with the dazzling objects which moved beneath, did not perceive Theodora's
situation, and without taking her eyes from the cavalcade pursued her remarks:--

"Now they go--the Lord bless them, how handsome they look! Well, I do not blame my lady's taste,
for certainly Don Lope is the most gallant of cavaliers. What think you, my sweet lady? Well,
certainly they do say he has many a grievous sin to answer for, in the list of innocent girls
he has seduced and undone: the Lord defend them, poor creatures; I pity them. But it was surely
their fault:--more fools they for trusting to the fair promises of such a man--what think you
gentle lady, am I not right?"

Happily the cavalcade was now out of sight, and Lisarda's observations were accordingly cut
short. But she immediately turned to Theodora, who had sat motionless on her couch from the
first glance that had acquainted her with the full extent of her wretchedness.

"Well," said the loquacious waiting maid, "what shall I do to divert you, lady? Really I am
at a loss. If you are not moved by the splendid sight you have just now witnessed, I cannot
imagine what will affect you. Mayhap I might afford some consolation, since you are so strongly
bent against the assistance of Samuel Mendez."

"Thank you," said Theodora, raising her eyes towards the speaker, "thank you for your kind
intentions, but if anything could tend to the alleviation of my sorrows, it would be perhaps
a free and unmolested indulgence of them."

"Oh, dear lady, but we must have no sorrowful faces at the wedding. Virgen de las Angustias!
that would be dreadfully ominous. Cheer up, sweet lady; there is nothing in the world like
a good example, and when you see every one rejoice, I am sure you will not mar the general
joy. Cheer up, good lady--better days will come. To-morrow, at the wedding festival, your thoughts,
I engage, will be fixed on other objects; such indeed as are interesting to every female who,
like ourselves, is yet blessed in the primeval season of youth. Am I not right?"

"Happy!" cried Theodora, in a thrilling tone, "happy!" Then as if to veil the effect which
her exclamation might produce, she added, "who can promise themselves happiness in this world?"

"Alack, and that is true!" responded Lisarda, "for many, many are the lovers who are born to
be unfortunate and die of broken hearts." She strove to swell her own with a mighty sigh: "And
even those who marry, how oft do they curse the day that--but this is neither here nor there."

"To-morrow! and is it really to-morrow, that the ceremony is to take place?" demanded Theodora.

"There is no doubt of it. God have mercy, the ceremony has been already delayed too long. The
young lovers would have been united some months since, had not unavoidable impediments retarded
the accomplishment of their mutual wishes."

A clamorous shout, and a burst of trumpets now announced the approach of Aguilar to Granada,
and Lisarda with giddy steps sallied out, leaving Theodora to the undisturbed enjoyment of
her gloomy reflections. The unfortunate child of Monteblanco had now the most unequivocal proof
of her lover's baseness and treachery: Gomez Arias was faithless, but what an aggravation of
guilt attached to his infidelity! His cold, heartless villainy seemed to surpass all power
of conception, and Theodora for some time remained like one striving to recall the fleeting
illusion of a horrid dream. Then she clasped her hands fearfully over her swollen eyelids;
a few large drops fell on her cold marbled hands, and in those eyes flashed the wild resolution
of despair.

A bitter smile now gently curled those parched and pallid lips, and she raised her trembling
fingers to her forehead, expressing all the passive agonies of an absent mind. Then suddenly,
as if actuated by a powerful impulse, she sprung upon her feet: she cautiously drew towards
the casement in a listening attitude, and the names of Aguilar and Gomez Arias which floated
in lengthening sound along the air, threw additional excitement on her already distracted feelings.
But one day more, and she was to witness the completion of her lover's union with her rival.
What a train of frightful associations this image brought to mind!

Dreadful was the conflict that Theodora had to sustain, and in that unequal warfare, her whole
frame underwent an appalling change: her eyes glistened, and her hands shook violently, as
she threw back with a resolute movement the tresses of her redundant hair. Again she stopped
as if brooding over some frightful design; her throat became swollen with hysteric affection;
the blood that hitherto had seemed congealed in its source, rushed with impetuosity down its
wonted channels, and the blue veins through which the little rivulet of life had gently flowed,
now became dark and turbid as the mountain stream. Her eyes shot the lurid flashes of madness;
a wild laugh broke the harmony of the purest voice; and a malignant curl usurped the place
where heavenly smiles had habitually sat.

Theodora, that soft and seraphic being who but a short time since, rich in the charms of native
grace and loveliness, had been the star of a happy home, and the delight of a fond and admiring
parent--that Theodora was now changed into the fearful semblance of a frantic being. Alas!
such was the effect that a few moments had wrought, that the eyes of a fond parent would have
in vain endeavoured to recognize his darling child. Feelings utterly foreign to the nature
of Theodora, had now taken possession of the shattered fragments of a broken heart, once the
shrine of hallowed and mental beauty; and those intelligent, soul-stirring features which nature
had bestowed as the interpreters of soft sentiments and kindly feelings, now faithfully reflected
the workings of impassioned and frenzied woe.

Alas! it is too often found that the gentle female heart, when rudely lacerated by the perfidy
of man, is capable of being wrought, by a powerful sense of injury and intense anguish, to
the utmost agony which the darker passions can display.

With irregular steps, which bespoke the confusion of her thoughts, she paced the silent chamber
that gave back with hollow sound the measure of her steps, while the vaulted passages of the
palace echoed at intervals the deafening shouts that were heard from without.

But the fit of frenzied passion under which Theodora laboured was too violent to last. That
fatal crisis was approaching, which generally terminates in the immediate accomplishment of
a mad suggestion, or with calmness treasures up in silence some direful resolve. The moment
had now arrived when the forces of the suffering victim were exhausted; she suddenly became
composed; her mind appeared irrevocably fixed on some act of madness, and despair was stamped
in the cold and unearthly expression which at that moment subdued her whole frame, and apparently
subjected her existence to a new dominion.

CHAPTER VIII.

    Aguarda hasta que yo pase
    Si ha de caer una teja.

                                Quevedo.

    Este misterio aparente
    Te voy, Señor a explicar.

                                Zarate.

We think it almost time to retrace our steps, and revert to a character which played a conspicuous
part at the beginning of this history. The reader, if not particularly deficient in memory,
will perhaps remember a certain Don Rodrigo de Cespedes, who bustled not a little in one or
two of the foregoing chapters, though he had the best excuse in the world for subsequently
keeping out of the way. It is to him we must return; therefore, patient reader, suffer your
attention to be diverted for a few moments from the interest of the present events, and resume
your acquaintance with that most deserving and ill-used cavalier. And here, by the way, I may
perhaps be allowed to indulge my spleen, by manifesting my extreme dislike to interruptions
in general, for there is nothing so vexatious and mortifying as the unpleasant necessity to
which an author is obliged to submit of breaking the thread of a narration when it begins to
excite some interest.

It is a subject well worthy of notice, that the generality of readers should be of so inquisitive
a temperament, that they cannot be induced to take in good part whatever they read, and rely
implicitly on the good faith of the author for the correctness of what he advances. By this
means, much time and paper might be saved, explanations would be useless, and works would be
rendered more compact, and consequently less tedious, which we cannot but consider an infinite
advantage to the literary world at large. However, we must take matters as we find them, and
as a circumstantial and satisfactory solution is expected by the reader to every incident enveloped
somewhat in mystery, let us hasten to comply with the established custom: and now to return--

We left Don Rodrigo with his man Peregil, patiently waiting the leisure of their beasts, sighing,
and cursing, and complaining by turns, for want of more suitable recreation. The night was
dreary, and the spreading branches of the tree under which our friends had taken shelter, afforded
but a meagre accommodation. If their lodgings were comfortless, the supper which they could
expect was still more humble and hermit-like;--the bill of fare consisted of some green grass,
which though abundantly supplied, presented a most provoking and unrelishing want of variety.
We would not venture to determine whether the refinement of their palate stood in the way of
their appetite, but it is nevertheless a fact that both master and man left the reverend father's
mule and the mesonero's ass undisturbed possessors of the repast. The comforts of supper and
rest being, therefore, denied to our wanderers, they resigned themselves to their unpleasant
situation, and with the patience that necessity imposed upon them, awaited the approach of
morning. Don Rodrigo in particular, being thoroughly impressed with the idea that his rival
Gomez Arias had fallen in the encounter, was full of inquietude, and excessively desirous to
penetrate further into the mountains to a place of security, where he might lie concealed until
their safe return to Granada.

Accordingly, scarcely had the first blush of dawn shed a dubious ray over the still slumbering
earth, than with much impatience Don Rodrigo hastened to try how far he might rely upon the
complaisance of the mule. Peregil followed the example of his master, and having found that
the temper of their beasts had been considerably improved by the abundance of their repast,
they quickly mounted, and endeavouring to make up for the loss of time by a tolerably brisk
pace, they pursued their route towards the thickest and darkest part of the wilderness.

Two whole days did Don Rodrigo and his attendant continue to wander without making much progress,
which may perhaps be chiefly attributed to the perverse disposition of the mule and her companion.
Indeed the cavalier and his attendant wandered about much in the same manner that a knight-errant
and his worthy squire might be expected to do, with this difference only, that the knight-errant
would be eagerly seeking for adventures, whereas Don Rodrigo was equally solicitous to avoid
them. The poor cavalier found himself in a most miserable plight; his revenge had been satisfied,
but more generous sentiments now occupied his bosom. He reflected, with deep-felt remorse,
that for the sake of redressing the fancied wrongs inflicted on him by an individual, he had
deprived his country of one of its bravest defenders; then again, like most lovers under similar
circumstances, he easily conjectured that the female who had evinced such an unequivocal aversion
to his addresses, would feel yet more repugnant to accept them, when offered by a man reeking
with the blood of her favored lover.

These and many other reflections of the like nature continued to intrude upon his mind; for
it is really a matter worthy of remark how very circumspect and thoughtful a man becomes, when
by an undue neglect of those same qualifications he has brought himself into an uncomfortable
and perilous predicament. They had by this time penetrated into those places which were under
the dominion of the rebel Moors. This circumstance was therefore attended with the greatest
danger, and consequently their anxiety and distrust became proportionably augmented as they
advanced.

However, Don Rodrigo still bore with manly fortitude the unpleasant and dangerous turn which
their affairs had taken, whilst the valet, since he could find no other resource, freely gave
vent to his complaints.

"Señor," he cried, turning to his master, "so may the Lord defend us, but we are every instant
getting deeper into difficulties. Here are we flying from the clutches of alguazils, to fall
into the grasp of the rebel Moors; and after all, unwelcome as the appearance of alguazils
may be, I should feel very well contented at this moment to be under their special guardianship,
rather than sustain the murderous aspect of these infidels. Nay, would to God that I were safely
and comfortably incarcerated within the walls of the most obscure dungeon in Granada."

"Let us then look for our way to Granada, and risk the worst from the friends of Don Lope,"
said Don Rodrigo, who, though possessed of much personal courage and resolution, yet was aware
these qualities would not avail him against the enemies which he was likely to encounter by
proceeding.

"Aye, indeed," replied Peregil, "let us find our way to Granada, and may the guardian angel
conduct us safely thither.--Blessed be the virgin! for a man like myself, endowed with a lively
and poetical imagination, I may say, these wild places are exceedingly disagreeable, for they
induce me to make strange metamorphoses: my fancy is continually upon the alert to transform
every object into any thing save what it really is: at day-break I mistook my ass for an officer,
and your mule for a Moor. Alas! we are alike, my honored master; for you, Don Rodrigo, when
in a poetic and loving mood, are ever disposed to convert cheeks into roses, and lips into
coral, and to find pearls where others only see teeth. Now, Señor, by a similar process, when
a fit of poetry and fear comes upon me, I feel marvellously inclined to convert all objects
that come before my view--let alone my ass and your mule--flocks of sheep, flights of crows,
stray cows, and barking dogs, into so many, ruffian-looking and hideous Moors; and, moreover,
I am fully persuaded that my poetry is not a whit more extravagant than yours."

Don Rodrigo, harassed with the combined inconveniences of hunger and fatigue, paid little attention
to the absurdities upon which his timorous valet was commenting; but Peregil, emboldened by
the passive forbearance of his master, continued in a higher key:--

