The so-called division of labor has grown under a system which condemned the masses to toil
all the day long, and all the life long, at the same wearisome kind of labor. But if we take
into account how few are the real producers of wealth in our present society, and how squandered
is their labor, we must recognize that Franklin was right in saying that to work five hours
a day would generally do for supplying each member of a civilized nation with the comfort now
accessible for the few only, provided everybody took his due share in production. But we have
made some progress since Franklin's times. More than one-half of the working day would thus
remain to every one for the pursuit of art, science, or any hobby he might prefer; and his
work in those fields would be the more profitable if he spent the other half of the day in
productive work--if art and science were followed from mere inclination, not for mercantile
purposes. Moreover, a community organized on the principles of all being workers would be rich
enough to conclude that every man and woman, after having reached a certain age--say of forty
or more--ought to be relieved from the moral obligation of taking a direct part in the performance
of the necessary manual work, so as to be able entirely to devote himself or herself to whatever
he or she chooses in the domain of art, or science, or any kind of work. Free pursuit in new
branches of art and knowledge, free creation, and free development thus might be fully guaranteed.
And such a community would not know misery amidst wealth. It would not know the duality of
conscience which permeates our life and stifles every noble effort. It would freely take its
flight towards the highest regions of progress compatible with human nature.

FOOTNOTE:

[1] What this school is now, I don't know. In the last years of Alexander II.'s reign it was
wrecked, like so many other good institutions of the early part of his reign.

MOTHERHOOD AND MARRIAGE

By HENRIETTE FUERTH.

(Translated from the German for MOTHER EARTH by ANNY MALI HICKS.)

    Knowledge becomes understanding only when its scope includes the
    origin, the development and the conclusion of things.--Bachofen,
    "Right to Motherhood."

"THE future will endeavor to extend its power through its own ideas of facts and appearances,
however unfamiliar these may seem, rather than to be influenced by a past and submerged civilization
with a spirit far removed from its own."

There could hardly be a more appropriate introduction to our remarks on motherhood and marriage
than these words of Bachofen's, for there are few human relations whose traditional stages,
taking through outside causes and effects an established form, have become eternal law and
sacrament, as is the case in the realm of sex relations. Motherhood and marriage! For most
people these two conceptions are inseparably bound together, or, rather, are in ratio connected
as their ideas of morality and religion are synonymous. Marriage in the Romish Church is a
religious sacrament, and in the collective Christian and Jewish worlds the only sex relation
acknowledged as customary and possible, is the one based on a monogamous union. To work out
logically from this standpoint, the only condition of motherhood which is socially justified,
is that one which is the result of marital relations. In consequence motherhood without the
consent of the State or the benefit of the clergy is just as logically condemned. And they
who thus sit in judgment, flatter themselves to be the prophets of an advanced and enlightened
era,--ingrafting their personal feelings and rights on the religious and lawful order of the
universe. Or, in common parlance, and as our introduction so aptly put it, these good people
wish to intend the domination of the ideas of their own time over all the past and into all
the future. Marriage seems to them an everlasting institution, a godly regulation, through
which they can lend to their individual bias, the dignity of that which is humanly purest and
highest. Consequently it also seems to them that the present form of marriage and its accompanying
conditions for motherhood, resting as these do on the mutual consent of God and man, that these
are to be in all eternity the permanent form of sex relation.

But when we stop one moment only, to free ourselves from preconceived and obsolete ideas, and
look at motherhood and marriage from the calm and unprejudiced standpoint of historical development
and growth, how differently do these in reality appear. Many advanced thinkers have done this,
and their views have here and there found adherents. Not so, however, with the average seeker
for light and truth, who if he wish to succeed must stem the tide of prejudiced opinion.

But the day has come when, if all signs do not fail, spring is here, and a thousand and one
buds of promise are pushing toward the light, when a wider and saner understanding of motherhood
and marriage is at hand. And it is not an untimely spring either, not one which the treacherous
sun of January calls forth only to blight with later snow and frost. No, it is the real light
and life-giving spring, which comes when the sap begins to run, when the sun calls up smoky
mists from out the brown earth, ready to enclose the seed, which shall bring forth summer flowers
and autumn fruits.

And this same brown, misty earth, what a different aspect shall she present to her children,
for whom conditions are so changed, with truer sex relations, encompassing the ethical and
spiritual needs of the free individual. Then only will it be possible to base these needs and
demands on the surrounding world of realities filled with material and spiritual phenomena.

But first it must be proven that the present form of marriage and its effect on motherhood
is not necessarily permanent, but, like all else, subject to natural development and change.
What indeed is the much talked of marriage bond of to-day,--which is considered the cornerstone
of both Church and State? Is it something towards which the steps of development in nature
and history all go? No seriously minded person could in truth make such a statement. In the
plant and animal kingdoms, whose species evoke as do those of the human race, we find no examples
of sex relations to which the term marriage would apply. And this is also true of the historical
development of man and social conditions. It is not marriage but motherhood which has given
permanence to sex relations wherever they appear. Motherhood standing at the source of life
with its creative and ever recreative force.

     "Goddesses enthroned in solitude,
     Surrounded not by time or place,
     These are the mothers!
     About them formed and formless,
     Eternal stability and endless change
     In images of all created life."

Thus does Goethe describe the depths of being which enclose the eternal mystery of motherhood,
leading not into known, but unknown paths.

And truly, how far have we strayed from the path of true and natural feeling when we seek to
justify motherhood from the standpoint of expediency and custom! It is something in itself
holy, and is its own reason for being. I ask all mothers, all real mothers, when their child
comes to them, with eyes brimming with childlike love and affection, against which all else
counts for naught, I ask them do they think whether that child is legitimate or what is called
an illegitimate child? No! the joy of motherhood completely fills the heart, there is no room
for other feelings, and truly the answer comes, Nature does not discriminate between the legitimate
and illegitimate mothers, any more than she labels the children brought into the world as such.
And this alone is the foundation to which we must hold fast. Nature acknowledges motherhood
only, wisely providing for its needs. Not so marriage, which is a form men have given their
sex relations, and established from the standpoint of social and economic exigencies and considerations,
it is consequently subject to limitations and changes. Motherhood is an eternal force lying
at the root of life, not subjected to time or change.

OBJECT LESSON FOR ADVOCATES OF GOVERNMENTAL CONTROL.

By ARTHUR G. EVERETT, N--M.

THE best literary efforts possible have been exhausted in a vain effort to convey to those
fortunately not in San Francisco on the morning of April 18, 1906, what terrible things resulted
from the earthquake and the fire which left that city a complete ruin; likewise has the kodak
and the camera--though busy at work while the flames roared around the operator driving him,
from one vantage point to another, before its resistless power--failed to depict in its entirety
the horrors, the tragedies that followed in the wake of the crumbling walls, the crackling
flames that licked up alike palatial mansions and the squalid homes of the poor, not content
to feast upon the products of the forests of California and the Eastern States alone, but,
with the strategy of a warrior, surrounded and penned within four walls hundreds of human beings,
stalwart men, delicate women, and babes at the breast, who were then slowly roasted to death
upon the funeral pyre of San Francisco.

Upon the minds and hearts of the survivors, alone, who walked between the walls of fire those
days, who escaped the frightful holocaust but by a miracle while loved ones perished before
their eyes, are written, are recorded, too complete, too vivid, those terrible scenes, and
fain would they efface from their mind's negative those pictures of horrors which now turn
their dreams of the night into such a frightful nightmare that they dread to close their eyes
in slumber.

While the horrors of the earthquake and fire were so terrible, yet there was something far
worse, for the earthquake and fire were beyond human control, but the still worse acts of the
soldiers into whose hands the control of the city were delegated could have been restrained
by the authorities had they so chosen; now that the world is being made aware of the fact that
the soldiers ruthlessly shot down men and women--yes, women as well as men; in one case a woman
was shot down by a soldier because she dared to light a match to see where to lay her little
sick baby down--and that without any justification other than the order of their superiors
who likewise were so ordered by the authorities--a natural result of governmental control--hence
they are doing all they can to controvert the facts regarding the brutal murders and worse
of the soldiers. In one case they went so far as to threaten the confiscation of a printery
if the editor did not call in and suppress an issue in which was printed an article by a marine
telling of seeing the soldiers shoot down the inmates of a hotel so surrounded by fire it seemed
they else must be burned up--the excuse the soldiers gave for shooting them--and so the soldiers
shot them down to save (?) them. The marine in this article did not tell how many of those
thus shot down by the soldiers were only wounded and writhed in agony on the increasing heated
floor until the fiery fiend ended their misery from the gun shot wounds.

Brevity precludes going into details of what is already a matter of history; of the soldiers
shooting the inmates of an improvised hospital that were unable to be moved when the fire surrounded
the building; of the soldiers shooting an old man for refusing to work, though so infirm with
age that he had to walk with a cane; of the shooting of a Red Cross man while in his auto on
a deed of mercy bent; of the man shot in the back for talking back to a soldier, and that after
he had turned away from the drunken brute; of the shooting of a man for having whisky in his
possession and refusing to give it up--that the soldiers had plenty is in evidence from the
fact that a large per cent. were so drunk that they could walk with but difficulty--of their
insulting women, and even far worse than mere insult also; of shooting persons for looting
while they themselves did the same; all this and much more and worse are known to be true,
and, in the language of another writer on this same subject, "Strive as they may the authorities
will never be able to whitewash the military abominations inflicted upon San Francisco and
vicinity." In this regard the same writer says most truly:

     "The rulers of the State furnished us an example of 'anarchy,'
     according to their own definition of the term."

In times like these it brings out what is in the man, and these murders and lesser brutalities
of the soldiers while policing San Francisco tell us that the soldier is but an infuriated
thug, ready to do murder and rapine at the first opportunity; the civic authorities of Oakland
recognized this as a fact when they finally allowed the reopening of the saloons, for the barkeepers
were specially interdicted from selling or giving liquor to soldiers; they were already loaded
too heavy with murderous instincts and propensities and it would not do to run the risk of
touching off that magazine of murder with the match of whisky.

These brutal butcheries and rapine by the soldiers while thus in control of San Francisco are
the legitimate fruits of governmental control, and it would be well for those who are so strenuously
advocating militarism--the true name for Governmental Control--to bear these things in mind,
for such horrors would be the daily menu under such system, for there is lots of the savage
in the most of us and it needs but to put a gun in the hands of some and decorate them with
brass buttons with U. S. inscribed thereon to bring to the surface--like a plaster on a boil--all
the native savagery there is in the man; personally, I would prefer to run my chances among
the Head Hunters on the Isle of Borneo than among uniformed thugs protected and encouraged
by martial law to carry out their natural murderous propensities as was the case in San Francisco,
following the earthquake on the morning of April 18, 1906.

THE GENIUS OF WAR

By JOHN FRANCIS VALTER.

     I am the Genius of War.
     My standard's the Skull and the Bones.
     I raise my voice--I stamp my foot,
     And legions rise out of the ground.

     Armies advance and retreat,
     Poisoned, diseased and maimed:
     All that is left is a grewsome aspect
     To the moonlight, the ghouls and Me.

     All this to a laudable end:--
     The general has his star;
     Shylock his four per cent;
     The contractor's wife a costly gem
     To enhance her vulgar charms;
     The mother a harvest of tears;
     The wife a broken heart;
     The unborn babe a prenatal curse;
     While I have my surfeit of blood.

DIGNITY SPEAKS.

"Hark ye, millions, and tremble! I am more powerful than the Law. Together with my sister,
Respectability, I reach far beyond the boundary of the authority of governments. I am supreme.

Behold the miserable criminal, desperately resisting the brutal treatment of the police officer.
I shall force him to his knees. I shall subdue him. Enthroned upon the seat of Justice, robed
in the solemn black of my sacred office, I shall break the rebel's spirit.

'Tis in this that the highest refinement of tyranny manifests itself--it enters into the very
innermost depths of the human mind and there it ravages, till its foul breath has withered
the last resistance of the unfortunate soul, and the consciousness of self is destroyed; this
accomplished, the man himself is dead.

The Law! See how the timid masses cower at the mere mention of my name. See them tremble as
I enter the arena of the Legislature.

The Dignity of the Law!

The Majesty of the Law!

It must forever remain my great secret that the Law is the Cerberus that guards the portals
of our earthly paradise against the common herd--we must not be disturbed in our orgies.

The Law! 'Tis our beastly greediness, our bloodthirsty rapacity expressed in statutes. 'Tis
the insatiety of the human beasts of prey immortalized in jurisprudence, and I, Dignity, sanctify
all that.

As a captain of industry, as a prince of commerce, or as a king of finance, I speak with solemn
face of the heavy responsibilities that rest upon those to whose care God, in his infinite
wisdom, has entrusted the wealth of the universe; I speak with zeal of the sacred duty of the
rich to lend a helping hand to our less fortunate brothers; I never tire to emphasize the necessity
of wise stewardship.

In the meantime, I exploit the "poor brothers" and I appropriate the lion's share of the fruit
of his labor; he is made to pay me an usurious profit on my investments.

I fill my shops and factories with men, women and children, and I transmute the base metal
of their bones into the noble coin of the realm; my coffers grow fat, my slaves grow lean,
but I acquire the reputation of a public benefactor, a public-spirited citizen, a noble humanitarian.

As military commander, as a great general, I eulogize the heroism and self-sacrifice of my
blind slaves and hirelings that have returned from a successful campaign against a weaker nation.
I speak of the great benefit that the success of our arms will confer upon the people, I emphasize
its stimulating effect upon the progress of our country and upon our civilization.

Yet while my anointed lips pour forth these solemn lies, my mind travels over the bloody fields
of carnage; I behold the thousands of the slain, the mutilated bodies, the torn limbs, the
streams of human blood....

I stand in the pulpit and call the faithful to prayer. I thunder eternal curses upon the heads
of the unbelievers; I threaten the people with the torments of hell and I try to bribe them
by the promise of heaven. Believe, live and be saved, I cry. Or else you will die and be damned!

For I am the visible representative on earth of those invisible, extra-mundane spirits whom
man, in his fear and ignorance, created to his own continued mental enslavement.

Terrified, sin lies prostrate at my feet. It does not know that a sick conscience is a characteristic
trait of all slaves. It is the universal self-accuser. Were the people--individually and collectively--to
sin on a grand scale, were they to refuse to be the puppets of the man-made idols--were that
to happen, masters and slaves would cease to be.

The tyrants of the world are under great obligations to me. They must not forget this. For
if they should, I will unfold my solemn black robe, I will smooth the hypocritical lines on
my face--then shall the world behold all the filth and corruption that I, Dignity, hide."

PATERNALISTIC GOVERNMENT.

By THEODORE SCHROEDER.

(Continuation.)

HERE is paternal solicitude with a vengeance in a law I requote from Wordsworth Donisthorpe:

"They shall have bows and arrows, and use the same of Sundays and holidays; and leave all playing
at tennis or foot-ball and other games called quoits, dice, casting of stone, kailes, and other
such importune games. Forasmuch as labourers and grooms keep greyhounds and other dogs, and
on the holidays when good Christians be at church hearing divine service, they go hunting in
parks, warrens, and connigries, it is ordained that no manner of layman which hath not lands
to the value of forty shillings a year, shall from henceforth keep any greyhound or other dog
to hunt, nor shall he use ferrets, nets, heys, harepipes nor cords, nor any engines for to
take or destroy deer, hares, nor conies, nor other gentlemen's game, under pain of twelve months
imprisonment.

"For the great dearth that is in many places of the realm of poultry, it is ordained that the
price of a young capon shall not pass threepence, and of an old fourpence, of a hen twopence,
of a pullet a penny, of a goose fourpence.

"Esquires and gentlemen under the estate of a knight shall not wear cloth of a higher price
than four and a half marks, they shall wear no cloth of gold nor silk nor silver, nor no manner
of clothing embroidered, ring button nor brooch of gold nor of silver, nor nothing of stone
nor no manner of fur; and their wives and daughters shall be of the same condition as to their
vesture and apparel, without any turning-up or purfle or apparel of gold, silver nor of stone.
3d. and his clothing once by the year at most; the master hind 10s., the carter 10s., the shepherd
10s., the oxherd 6s. 8d., the swineherd 6s., a woman labourer 6s., a dey 6s., a driver of the
plough 7s. at the most, and every other labourer and servant according to his degree; and less
in the country where less was wont to be given, without clothing, courtesy, or other reward
by covenant. If any give or take by covenant more than is above specified, at the first that
they shall be thereof attained, as well the givers as the takers, shall pay the value of the
excess so taken, and at the second time of their attainer the double value of such excess,
and at the third time the treble value of such excess, and if the taker so attained have nothing
whereof to pay the said excess, he shall have forty days imprisonment."

Our puritan fathers had the same paternal solicitude as all other tyrants. They made it a crime
to disregard the Sabbath, or to deny Scripture, or the truth of Christianity or of the Trinity.
In the records of the colony for September 1639 it is written: "For as much as it is evident
unto this court that the common custom of drinking one to another, is a mere useless ceremony,
and draweth on that abominable practice of drinking healths, and is also an occasion of much
waste of the good creatures, and of many other sin," etc. Then it declares that such is a reproach
to a Christian commonwealth, "wherein the least evils are not to be tolerated."

In the instructions of the Massachusetts Company to Endicott and his Council, the trade in
tobacco is only allowed to the "old planters," "if they conceive that they cannot otherwise
provide for their livelihood." It is left to the discretion of Endicott and his Council "to
give way for the present to their planting of it, in such manner and with such restrictions"
as they may think fitting. "But," it is added, "we absolutely forbid the sale of it or the
use of it by any of our own particular (private) men's servants, unless upon urgent occasion,
for the benefit of health, and taken privately." In the Records of the Colony of Massachusetts
for September 3, 1634, "it is ordered that victuallers or keepers of an ordinary shall not
suffer any tobacco to be taken into their houses, under penalty of 5s. for every offence to
be paid by the victualler, and 12d. by the party that takes it." "Further it is ordered that
no person shall take tobacco publicly under the penalty of 2s. 6d., nor privately in his own
house or in the house of another before strangers, and that two or more shall not take it together
anywhere, under the aforesaid penalty for every offence."

The laws which our Colonial fathers enacted against "excess and bravery in apparel" are fitted
to excite a smile. But there is something more than ludicrous in the aspect of grave lawmakers
passing judgment on all the minutiæ of dress, and finding matter of offence in an extra "slash,"
or a needless garniture of "lace." Against this last-named article the zeal of our Puritan
fathers seems to have been especially stirred up. In 1636 it was enacted "that no person, after
one month, shall make or sell any bone-lace or other lace, to be worn upon any garment or linen,
upon pain of 5s. the yard for every yard of such lace so made, or sold, or set on; neither
shall any tailor set any lace upon any garment, upon pain of 10s. for every offence,--provided
that binding or small edging laces may be used upon garments or linen." Again, three years
later, a new edict was launched at this obnoxious material, because "there is much complaint
of the excessive wearing of lace and other superfluities, tending to little use or benefit,
but to the nourishing of pride and the exhausting of men's estates, and also of evil example
to others." The law of 1634 was indeed repealed in 1644; but in 1651 the Court, to their great
grief, are compelled to try their hand at the work again, though frankly confessing the impotence
of all previous legislation, and evidently awakening to a sense of the inherent difficulties
of the subject. "We acknowledge it," say they, "to be a matter of much difficulty, in regard
of the blindness of men's minds and the stubbornness of their wills, to set down exact rules
to confine all sorts of persons"; and so, leaving the wealthier class to their own conscience
of fancy, they undertake to prescribe for "people of mean condition." And finally, a law passed
in 1662 forbids "children and servants" to wear any apparel "exceeding the quality and condition
of their persons or estate," "the grand jury and country court of the shire" being judges of
the offence.

One provision of the law of 1634 against "new and immodest fashions" is too remarkable to be
omitted. What intolerable tyranny of private surveillance is indicated in the phrase, "what
any man shall judge to be uncomely"!

In the second letter of instructions (dated June, 1629) to Endicott and his Council, they are
exhorted to prevent the sale of "strong waters" to the Indians, and to punish any of their
own people who shall become drunk in the use of them. But it would seem that "the cause," in
the eyes of our Puritan lawmakers, was an indiscriminate sale of spirituous drinks; for the
law chiefly enacts that none but "vintners" shall have permission to retail wine and "strong
water." It is also permitted to constables to search any tavern, or even any private house,
"suspected to sell wine contrary to this order." Moreover, no person is "to drink or tipple
at unseasonable times in houses of entertainment,"--the "unseasonable" time being declared
to be after nine in the evening.

But these laws were of small avail, for, in 1648, the Court is grieved to confess: "It is found
by experience that a great quantity of wine is spent, and much thereof abused to excess of
drinking and unto drunkenness itself, notwithstanding all the wholesome laws provided and published
for the preventing thereof." It therefore orders, that those who are authorized to sell wine
and beer shall not harbor a drunkard in their houses, but shall forthwith give him up to be
dealt with by the proper officer, under penalty of five pounds for disobedience.

In 1636 one "Peter Bussaker was censured for drunkenness to be whipped and to have twenty stripes
sharply inflicted, and fined £5 for slighting the magistrates," etc. In March, 1634, it was
ordered, "that Robert Coles, for drunkenness by him committed at Roxbury, shall be disfranchised,
wear about his neck and so to hangg upon his outward garment a D made of red cloth and set
upon white; to continue this for a year, and not to leave it off at any time when he comes
amongst company, under penalty of 40s. for the first offence and £5 for the second." What was
the efficacy of the whipping or the "scarlet letter," we are not informed.

Of course, people capable of such legislation must frame fantastic definitions of Liberty.
Here is an old one whose sentiments have been often parroted by unthinking humans of modern
times. It reads: "True Liberty consists in a freedom of doing and receiving good under the
protection of a government solicitous for the people's good." Such has always been the tyrant's
conception of freedom, and, strange to say, finds many endorsements even to this day.

It has recently been solemnly announced from the judicial bench that the only liberty an American
has is the liberty to do the right thing, of course according to other people's conception
of right. That is precisely the kind of tyranny or liberty that was enjoyed by the victims
of the paternalistic laws above described.

Persons afflicted with newspaper intelligence express their conception that the individual
has no rights that government may not invade, by that hollow phrase, "Liberty under the Law."
Liberty under the law is what the government-ridden peasants of Russia enjoy. Liberty under
the law was the pleasure of those who expired with indescribable agony on the rack and amid
the flames. Liberty under the law was meted out to the millions of victims of the witchcraft
delusion. Liberty under the law was also the liberty of our Southern chattel slaves before
as well as after the war. Liberty under the law is the same old idea of liberty which every
tyrant has ever advanced. As for myself, I shouldn't object to a little liberty in spite of
the law, when that does not conform to the rule of liberty as laid down by Herbert Spencer
in these words: "Every man has freedom to do all that he wills, provided he infringes not the
equal freedom of any other man."

AIM AND TACTICS OF THE TRADE-UNION MOVEMENT.

By MAX BAGINSKI.

TRADE unionism represents to the working man the most natural form of association with his
fellow-brother. This medium became a necessity to him when he was confronted by modern industrialism
and the power of capitalism. It dawned on him that the individual producer had not a shadow
of a chance with the owner of the means of production, who, together with the economic power,
enjoyed the protection of the State with its various weapons of warfare and coercion. In the
face of such a giant master all the appeals of the workingman to the love of justice and common
humanity went up into smoke.

The beginning of modern industry found the producer in abject slavery and without the understanding
of an organized form of resistance. Exploitation reigned supreme, ever seeking to sap the last
drop of strength of its victims. No mercy for the common man, nor any consideration shown for
his life, his health, growth and development. Capitalism's only aim was the accumulation of
profits, of wealth and power, and to this moloch everything else was ruthlessly sacrificed.

This spirit of accumulation did not admit of the right of the masses to think, feel, or demand;
it merely considered them a class of coolies, specially created, as it were, for their masters'
use.

This notion is still in vogue to-day, and if the conditions of the workers at this moment are
somewhat better, somewhat more endurable, it is not thanks to the milk of human kindness of
the money power. Whatsoever the workingmen have achieved in the way of better human conditions,--a
higher standard of living, or a partial recognition of their rights,--they have wrenched from
their enemies through a hard and bitter struggle that required great endurance, tremendous
courage and many sacrifices.

The tendency to treat the people as a herd of sheep the purpose of which is to serve as food
for parasites is still very strong; but this tendency no longer goes unchallenged; it is being
met with tremendous opposition; increased social knowledge and revolutionary ideas have taught
the workingmen to unite their efforts against those who have been comfortably seated on their
backs for centuries past.

The first unskilled attempt on the part of the people to gain a clear conception of their position
brought out blind hatred against the technical methods of exploitation instead of hatred against
the latter.

In England, for instance, the workingmen considered machinery their deadly foe, to be gotten
rid of by all means. The simple axiom that machinery, factories, mines, land, together with
every other means of production, if only in the hands of the entire community, would serve
for the comfort and happiness of all, instead of being a curse, was a book of seven seals for
the people in those days. And even at this late hour this simple truth is entertained by a
comparative few, though more than one decade of socialistic and anarchistic enlightenment has
passed.

The first trade-unionistic attempts have met with the same ferocious persecution that Anarchism
is being met with to-day. Even as to-day capital avails itself of the strongest weapons of
government in its attack upon labor. The authorities were not slow in passing laws against
trade unionism and every effort for organization was at that time considered high treason,
organizers and all those who participated in strikes were considered aides and abettors of
crime and conspiracy, punishable with long years of imprisonment and, in many cases, even with
death.

At the behest of Money, the State sent human bloodhounds on the trail of the man who in any
way was suspected in participating in the trade-union movement. The most villainous and brutal
methods were employed to counteract the growth and success of labor organizations. The powers
that be recognized the great force that is contained in organized labor as the means of the
regeneration of society much quicker than the workingmen themselves. They felt this force hanging
like a Damocles sword over their heads, which danger made them dread the future, and nothing
was left undone to nip this force in the bud.

The fundamental principle of trade unionism is of a revolutionary character and, as such, it
never was and never can be a mere palliative for the adjustment of Labor to Capital. Hence,
it must aim at the social and economic reconstruction of society.

Many labor leaders in this country, who consider their duty performed when they sit themselves
at the table of wealth and authority, trying to bring about peace and harmony between Capital
and Labor, might greatly profit by the history of trade-unionism and the various economic struggles
it has fought.

Only ignorance can account for the birth of such superficial stuff on the labor question as
the book of John Mitchell that has been launched upon the market through loud and vulgar advertisement.
Nothing could have disproved the fitness of Mr. Mitchell for a labor leader so drastically
as this book.

As already stated, the violent attempt to kill trade unionism or its organizations have proven
futile. The swelling tide of the labor movement could not be stopped. The social and economic
problem brought to light by modern industry demanded a hearing, produced various theories and
an extensive literature on the subject--a literature that spoke with a tongue of fire of the
awful existence of the oppressed millions, their trials, their tribulations, the uncertainty,
the dangers surrounding them; it spoke of the terrible results of their conditions, of the
lives crippled, of the hopes marred; a literature that demanded to know why it is that those
who toil are condemned to want and poverty, while those who never produced were living in affluence
and extravagance.

Well-meaning people have even attempted to prove that Capital and Labor are twins, and that
in order to maintain their common interests they ought to live in harmony; or, that if Sister
Labor had a grievance against its big brother it ought to be settled in a calm and peaceful
way. Meanwhile the dear sister was fleeced and bled by Brother Capital, and every time the
abused and slaved and outraged creature would turn to her brother for justice the dear fellow
would whip the rebellious child into submission.

Along with the forcible subjection of organized labor, the minds of the people were confused
and blurred by the sugar-coated promises of politicians who assured them that the trade unions
ought to be organized by the law, and that all labor quarrels ought to be settled by political
and legal means. Indeed, legislatures even discussed a few labor-protective laws that either
never saw the light of day, or, if really enacted, were set aside or overridden by the possessing
class as an obstacle to profit-making.

Every government, no matter what political basis it rests upon, acts in unison with wealth,
and therefore it never passed any legislation in behalf of the producing element of the country
that would seriously benefit the great bulk of the people or in any way aim at any change of
wage-slaving or economic subjugation.

Every step of improvement the workingmen have made is due solely to their own economic efforts
and not to any legal or political aid ever given them, and through their own endeavors only
can ever come the reconstruction of the economic and social conditions of society. Just as
little as the workingmen can expect from legislative methods can they gain from trade-unionistic
efforts that attempt to better economic conditions along the basic lines of the present industrial
system.

The cardinal fault of the trade-union movement of this country lies in the fact that its hopes
and ideals rest upon the present social status; these ideals ever rotate in the same circle
and, therefore, cannot bear intellectual and material fruit. Condemned to pasture in the lean
meadows of capitalistic economy, trade-unionism drags on a miserable existence, satisfied with
the crumbs that fall from the heavily laden tables of their lordly masters.

True social science has amply proved the futility of a reconciliation between the two opposing
forces; the existence of the one force representing possession, wealth and power inevitably
has a paralyzing effect upon its opposing force--Labor.

Trade-unionistic tactics of to-day unfortunately still travel the path marked out for Labor
by the powers that be, while the majority of the labor leaders waste the time paid for by their
organizations in listening to or discussing with capitalists sweet nothings in the form of
arbitration or reconciliation, and are apparently unaware of the fundamental difference between
the body they represent and the powers they bow to. And thus it happens that labor organizations
are being brutally attacked, that the militia and soldiers are maiming their brothers in the
various strike regions while the leaders are being dined and wined. The American Federation
of Labor is lobbying in Washington, begging for legal protection, and in return venal Justice
sends Winchester rifles and drunken militiamen into the disturbed labor districts. Recently
the American Federation of Labor made an alleged radical step in deciding to put up labor candidates
for Congress--an old and threadbare political move--thereby sacrificing whatever honest men
and clear heads they may have in their ranks. Such tactics are not worth a single drop of sweat
of the workingmen, since they are not only contradictory to the basic principles of trade unionism,
but even useless and impractical.

