The next day they dug up a quantity of baked horsehair, which had apparently been used for
saddle stuffing. The hostility displayed by the blacks compelled Mr. McKinlay and his party
to fire upon them. The mystery attached to the remains here spoken of has yet to be cleared
up. The idea at first entertained that they were those of Gray is not tenable. A glance at
the map will show that Gray died and was buried far away to the north-east of McKinlay's track.

On the day of King's arrival in Melbourne, my son's watch, a gold chronometer, which he had
used to calculate the longitudes by, was duly delivered to me in presence of the Governor;
also his last letter, distinctly traced in a firm hand on a ruled page torn from some book.
It was not sealed, but neatly wrapped in a loose cover. The relic is invaluable.

MR. WILLS'S LAST LETTER TO HIS FATHER. BROUGHT DOWN BY KING.

Cooper's Creek, 27 June, 1861.

MY DEAR FATHER,

These are probably the last lines you will ever get from me. We are on the point of starvation,
not so much from absolute want of food, but from the want of nutriment in what we can get.

Our position, although more provoking, is probably not near so disagreeable as that of poor
Harry* and his companions.

[* Footnote: Harry, his cousin, Lieutenant Le Vescompte, who perished with Sir John Franklin.]

We have had very good luck, and made a most successful trip to Carpentaria, and back to where
we had every right to consider ourselves safe, having left a depot here consisting of four
men, twelve horses, and six camels. They had provisions enough to have lasted them twelve months
with proper economy, and we had also every right to expect that we should have been immediately
followed up from Menindie by another party with additional provisions and every necessary for
forming a permanent depot at Cooper's Creek. The party we left here had special instructions
not to leave until our return, UNLESS FROM ABSOLUTE NECESSITY. We left the creek with nominally
three months' supply, but they were reckoned at little over the rate of half rations. We calculated
on having to eat some of the camels. By the greatest good luck, at every turn, we crossed to
the gulf, through a good deal of fine country, almost in a straight line from here. On the
other side the camels suffered considerably from wet; we had to kill and jerk one soon after
starting back. We had now been out a little more than two months, and found it necessary to
reduce the rations considerably; and this began to tell on all hands, but I felt it by far
less than any of the others. The great scarcity and shyness of game, and our forced marches,
prevented our supplying the deficiency from external sources to any great extent; but we never
could have held out but for the crows and hawks, and the portulac. The latter is an excellent
vegetable, and I believe secured our return to this place. We got back here in four months
and four days, and found the party had left the Creek the same day, and we were not in a fit
state to follow them.

I find I must close this, that it may be planted; but I will write some more, although it has
not so good a chance of reaching you as this. You have great claims on the committee for their
neglect. I leave you in sole charge of what is coming to me. The whole of my money I desire
to leave to my sisters; other matters I pass over for the present. Adieu, my dear Father. Love
to Tom. [Footnote: Tom, his brother in Melbourne.]

W.J. WILLS.

I think to live about four or five days. My spirits are excellent.

. . .

The remark that I had great claims on the committee was inserted in the letter, as King informed
me, in consequence of Mr. Burke observing, "Wills, be sure to say something to that effect."
The letter was read to Burke and King by my son, as soon as he had concluded it. On King's
examination, he was questioned as follows, on this point:

Question 1068. Do you see that letter--[pointing to the letter written by Mr. Wills to his
father]?--That is the letter Mr. Wills read.

1069. Did he read it out for the purpose of being corrected if there was any statement in it
that was not quite correct?--I believe the reason was, in case the letter should be found,
that he should not say anything to our disadvantage, mine or Mr. Burke's; he thought that we
would see it was the truth and nothing but the truth.--[Watch produced]--That is the watch
Mr. Wills desired the survivor to give to his father, which I have done.

1070. There was a pocket-book, was there not?--Yes, which Mr. Burke gave me on the evening
before his death, requesting me to deliver it to Sir William Stawell, but under any circumstances
I was not to deliver it to any other gentleman of the committee. I delivered it to Sir William
Stawell this morning.

1071. Did you know anything of the nature of the contents of it? --No, except what Mr. Burke
read to me affecting myself, and which Sir William Stawell has read to me this morning. The
same book I showed to Mr. Howitt, telling him that it was Mr. Burke's desire that I should
deliver it to Sir William Stawell himself. Mr. Burke also gave me his watch, and told me it
was the property of the committee; the same I delivered to Mr. Howitt.

1072. You kept possession of the book?--Yes, and gave it over to Sir William Stawell this morning.

1073. How did you preserve all those things while with the blacks? --I had a small canvas pouch,
which I always carried about with me on my person.

1074. Did they ever covet anything?--Yes, they used often to make me show them the contents of it.

. . .

The letter and watch being handed to Mr. Burke, my son then lent him his pistol, the only defence
he could have retained against hostile attack, and lying on the bare ground, resigned to his
fate, urgently requested them to leave him. Imagination, with all the aid of poetical fancy,
can conceive no position to exceed this in utter desolation. It has been said, and many may
think, they ought not to have separated. No consideration, or argument, should have induced
his two companions to abandon him. It was indeed a trying alternative, but falling in with
the blacks appeared to be the only chance of rescue for the whole party; and had this fortunately
happened before the sudden and total prostration of Burke, there can be no doubt they would
have hastened immediately to bring the same succour to my son. King informed me that Mr. Burke
was dreadfully distressed, and that he had great difficulty in persuading him to go on. At
times he would stop and exclaim, "How can I leave him, that dear, good fellow?" He was usually
in the habit of addressing him as "My dear boy," for although twenty-seven, and wearing a beard,
he had such a youthful appearance that few would have taken him for more than twenty when he
left Melbourne.

During the whole journey, and through all their trials, King said that not an approach to altercation,
or a word of difference, ever took place between my poor boy and his leader. When I claimed
the pistol above alluded to, it was considered of too much consequence to be surrendered without
minute investigation. To my first application I received the following diplomatic reply:

EXPLORATION COMMITTEE,

Royal Society of Victoria,

Victoria Street, Melbourne, January 28th, 1862.

SIR,

I have the honour to inform you that, at a committee meeting held 27th instant, the Honourable
Dr. Wilkie in the chair, the subject of delivering the "Burke" pistol to you, which you claim
as your late son's property, was discussed. The report of the Assistant-Secretary was to the
effect that, as the tradesmen who supplied the fire-arms did not register the numbers, the
identity of this particular pistol could not be traced as one supplied to the expedition; but
that as there were several "Colt's" revolvers furnished, there is room for doubt as to whether
this may not be one of them.

As the committee merely wishes to be fully satisfied of the validity of your claim before parting
with such a melancholy and interesting relic, instructions have been given to apply to Mr.
King for any information he may be able to supply, to guide the committee to a right decision.

I have the honour to be, sir,

Your most obedient servant,

JOHN MACADAM, M.D.,

Hon. Secretary.

W. WILLS, ESQ. M.D.

. . .

Finally, and with much trouble, after I know not how many meetings, and what amount of discussion,
the pistol was handed over to me, and is now in my possession. So much for my claims on the
Committee, who are the only parties acquainted with the merits of my poor son from whom I have
received anything like coldness or offence. On the day of King's arrival, as the mail was leaving
for England, I was anxious to obtain at once the letter which I knew was in his possession.
My earnestness interrupted an arrangement they had made for receiving him, and my unseasonable
importunity, as it was considered, drew on me something bearing a close resemblance to a vote
of censure.

King, who although only a common soldier, has a heart and feelings which would do no dishonour
to a gentleman of education, would have preferred coming into Melbourne, after the loss of
his officers, at least unostentatiously, if not in sackcloth and ashes. But he was greeted
with a howling and shouting more suitable to the reception of some notorious bush-ranger recently
captured. Many, in common with myself, considered the ovation out of place and character; while
others, and apparently the more numerous party, were of a different opinion. Perhaps it was
well meant, and chacun a son gout. Public enthusiasm is not always gaugeable by the standard
of reason or good taste. The following account was printed:--

From about five o'clock, groups of persons anxious to welcome back the first who had crossed
and re-crossed the Australian continent began to pour into the station, and its vicinity was
so crowded with cars and spectators that it was impossible to reach the entrance. The arrival
of the train was hailed with vociferous cheering. The carriage in which King was a passenger
was at once recognized by its being decorated with flags. Such was the "rush" to see King that
it was some time before the porters could reach the carriage door, and when they had reached
it they experienced considerable difficulty in getting the door opened. Dr. Gilbee, who was
accompanied by Dr. Macadam, was in attendance with his private carriage to convey King as quietly
as possible to the Royal Institute, where the Exploration Committee and a numerous assemblage
of ladies and gentlemen were in waiting to see him. Those gentlemen, however, were unable to
reach the carriage; and Dr. Wills, who was fortunately opposite the door, seeing that it was
impossible for the arrangements to be carried out, immediately conveyed King to an open car
and drove off. Dr. Gillbee and Dr. Macadam, with King's sister, immediately followed. The cars
were then rushed; and cars, buggies, horses, and pedestrians raced along Collins Street to
William Street, and thence to Government House. A great many were, of course, disappointed
by this alteration, as it was generally expected that King would be received by His Excellency
and the Committee at the Royal Institute, and therefore drove along the streets that were likely
to facilitate their reaching the institution before King's arrival. On reaching Government
House, King was assisted up stairs, for though he looked very healthy and robust; he was scarcely
able to stand. He was taken into the room adjoining the Chief Secretary's office, where he
was shortly afterwards joined by his sister. Their meeting was, of course, strictly private.
In a few minutes the approaches to Government House, the lobbies, stairs, and landing were
impassably crowded, so that it was necessary for the police to clear a passage for His Excellency
from his own office to that of the Chief Secretary. His Excellency, accompanied by Captain
Timins, entered the Chief Secretary's office, and after a short conversation with Welch, who
accompanied King to town, went into the anteroom; accompanied by Captain Timins, and followed
by Dr. Wills, Welch, and Brahe. When His Excellency entered the room, King and his sister respectfully
stood up, but His Excellency requested them to be seated, as King was evidently unable to stand
on his feet. The excitement was almost too much for the poor fellow, and it was thought advisable
to get him away as speedily and as privately as possible to St. Kilda, where his sister resides.

A few days afterwards, at a meeting of the Exploration Committee, a series of questions, more
or less pertinent to the circumstances under which he appeared before them, were personally
put to him by members of the committee, and which he answered calmly, displaying considerable
intelligence and precision of mind in his replies to the rather discursive examination he was
subjected to. The Herald, in reference to the interview, had the following observations: --John
King was an object of great and curious interest. Having come out of such great tribulation--having
fasted for so many days in the desert--having been wasted by privations till he became so near
death that for Death to have overcome him would have been no triumph--he was regarded with
feelings similar to those which made the people say of Dante, "There goes the man who has been
in Hades." Though only a subordinate, he is a man possessing, we should say--or, indeed, as
we know--good leading qualities, the attributes of a hero; and though his intellectual powers
have not been highly cultivated, he evidently possesses no small share of intelligence. A man
who would mind his own business, and not given to ask very many questions, which as things
have turned out is to be regretted; but with a memory capable of retaining everything that
came within his knowledge. His coolness rather took aback those members of the committee, yesterday,
who seemed to have come loaded to the muzzle with questions, which they proceeded to fire off
indiscriminately. He seemed to know better than those inquisitors the way in which his examination
should be conducted; that the inquiry had a more important object than gratifying sheer curiosity;
and when he goes before the Royal Commission next Thursday they will find him a very good witness.
The deepest sympathy was expressed by the meeting, and it will be most sincerely felt by every
soul to whom his extraordinary history will become known.

The Exploration Committee held a private meeting on the 29th, at which King was present. He
there stated that the tide rose and fell six inches at the part of the river where he was left
by Messrs. Burke and Wills when they proceeded on foot with the object of discovering the sea.
The gallantry of King is amply testified to by some memoranda in the handwriting of poor Burke--the
last he ever wrote. The documents were contained in a pocket-book which the dying explorer
committed to the care of the survivor, charging him to deliver it into the hands of Sir William
Stawell. This last desire of his unfortunate commander was most scrupulously observed by King.
The manuscript ran as follows:--

I hope that we shall be done justice to. We have fulfilled our task, but we have been abandoned.
We have not been followed up as we expected, and the depot party abandoned their post.

R. O'HARA BURKE.

Cooper's Creek, June 26th.

King has behaved nobly. I hope that he will be properly cared for. He comes up the creek in
accordance with my request.

R. O'HARA BURKE.

Cooper's Creek, June 28th.

R. O'H. BURKE.

Cooper's Creek, June 28th.

. . .

The following sketch of the journey across the continent of Australia, by Messrs. Burke and
Wills, in a letter from the Governor of Victoria, Sir Henry Barclay, to Sir Roderick Murchison,
was read before the Royal Geographical Society in London on the 15th of January, 1862, and
was ordered to be printed in their proceedings. The letter also appeared in the Times of the
15th of January:--

MY DEAR SIR RODERICK,

Knowing the interest you have ever taken in the exploration of the interior of Australia, and
that you still occupy the post of Vice-President of the Royal Geographical Society, it was
my intention to address you fully by the present mail-steamer respecting the Victorian expedition
under Burke and Wills, which you will learn has achieved the honour of first crossing from
sea to sea, by a route far distant and utterly distinct from that of McDouall Stuart, from
whose great fame as an explorer I have not the least desire to detract.

I wished, indeed, as the expedition had cost the gallant leaders of it their lives, to narrate
in a connected form its design and history from the very commencement, in order that it might
serve the Geographical Society as a record, and prevent any misconception of the causes which
have marred its triumphant result.

I find, however, that the pressure of other business will prevent my carrying out this design,
and I must content myself therefore with forwarding the newspapers which contain the best report
of what has recently come to light, together with the diaries of Burke and Wills, as published
in a pamphlet form, and lastly with a map of Australia, on which our Surveyor-General has added
to other recent explorations, a reduced tracing of the track of the expedition, from the depot
on Cooper's Creek to the Gulf of Carpentaria, where it struck, as would appear, the Flinders
River, and not the Albert, as the explorers supposed.

I would refer you, at the same time, for precise details of the whole enterprise to my several
despatches of 21st of August, 1860; 20th of July, and 20th of November, 1861; which I am confident
the Duke of Newcastle will put at your disposal for the information of the Geographical Society,
if applied to.

On one account I am not sorry to be obliged to postpone a detailed communication on the subject,
for it would be difficult to tell the sad story of the sufferings and death of the brave men
who returned to the spot where they expected to find friends and ample store of provisions
and clothing, only to find the depot abandoned, and to perish miserably in default of assistance,
without at least implying blame in some quarter or other; and, as a good deal is still enveloped
in mystery, and I have appointed a commission of inquiry to take evidence and report thereupon,
it would obviously be improper in me to anticipate their conclusion.

The sole survivor of the party who crossed the continent, John King, once, I believe, a soldier
in India, is expected to reach Melbourne to-night; and with the aid of his recollections of
the journey, the Surveyor-General hopes to be enabled to add to the chart on a large scale,
which he is constructing from Mr. Wills's field books, fuller particulars as to the nature
of the country; as well as to supply some blanks which were evidently left to be filled in
afterwards, especially in regard to the route back, which, from the determination at our observatory
of one of his earlier camps, from an observation of one of the planets which is recorded, seems
to have been considerably to the eastward of the course pursued in going, though this is not
expressly so stated.

I need hardly add that as soon as Mr. Ligar finishes this chart I will send you copies of it,
as also the report of the commission of inquiry.

The country towards Carpentaria or Burke's Land--as I hope it will be called--seems so good
that there can be little doubt of the formation, at no distant date, of a colony on the shores
of that estuary;--a project which you have long, I know, had at heart; and before we recall
the several parties sent out for the relief of the missing expedition, I trust we shall be
able so far to complete the task as to connect the settled country, by Mr. Howitt's aid, with
Burke's Land by the best possible route; and, by means of the party sent by sea in the Victoria
steamer, to add greatly to our knowledge of the Gulf, and of the embouchures of the different
rivers falling into it.

Believe me ever,

My dear Sir Roderick,

Yours very truly,

HENRY BARKLY.

Government Offices, Melbourne, 25th November, 1861.

P.S.--After I had finished my letter, I received a memorandum from the Surveyor-General respecting
Mr. Wills's astronomical observations, which is of so much importance that I enclose it for
your information, not having time to get a copy made.

H.B.

. . .

It has been remarked, with some disposition to draw uncharitable conclusions therefrom, that
no religious expressions, or any specific references to that all-important subject, are to
be found in the field-books and journals that have been given to the public. On this point,
King said, in reply to Question 1714, "I wish to state, with regard to there being no particular
tokens of religion recorded in any part of the diaries, that we each had our Bible and Prayer-book,
and occasionally read them going and coming back; and also the evening before the death of
Mr. Burke, I am happy to say, he prayed to God for forgiveness for the past, and died happy,
a sincere Christian."

The curtain drops here on the history of the great Victorian Exploring Expedition, and little
more remains to be told of its results or shortcomings. The continent was crossed, the Gulf
reached, and the road indicated by the hardy pioneers, which their successors will find it
comparatively easy to level and macadamize. Already the stimulant of the Burke and Wills catastrophe
has called into active exercise the successive expeditions and discoveries of Howitt, Norman,
Walker, Landsborough, and McKinlay. Others will rapidly follow, with the characteristic energy
and perseverance of the Saxon race. Now that time has, to a certain extent, allayed the poignant
grief of those who are most nearly and dearly interested in the fate of the original explorers;
when first impulses have cooled down, and the excitement of personal feelings has given way
before unquestionable evidence, we may safely ascribe, as far as human agencies are concerned,
the comparative failure of the enterprise to the following specific causes:--

1. The double mistake on the part of the leader, of dividing and subdividing his forces at
Menindie and Cooper's Creek;

2. The utter unfitness of Wright for the position in which he was placed;

3. The abandonment by Brahe of the depot at Cooper's Creek;

4. The resolve of the surviving explorers to attempt the route by Mount Hopeless, on their
homeward journey;

And lastly, to the dilatory inefficiency of the Committee, in not hurrying forward reliefs
without a moment's delay, as the state of circumstances became gradually known to them.

