VOL. I.--NO. 19.

       *       *       *       *       *

ACROSS THE OCEAN; OR, A BOY'S FIRST VOYAGE.

A True Story.

BY

J. O. DAVIDSON.

CHAPTER I.

THE FIRST NIGHT AT SEA.

     P.M. steam-ship Arizona sails this day at 4.30 P.M. for China
     and the East, viâ Suez Canal. Freight received until 4 P.M. Hands
     wanted.

"I guess that's what I want," muttered a boy, who was comparing the printed slip in his hand
with the above notice, conspicuously displayed from the yard of a huge ocean steamer alongside
one of the North River piers at New York.

Not a very heroic figure, certainly, this young volunteer in the battle of life: tired, seemingly,
by the way in which he dragged his feet; cold, evidently, for he shivered every now and then,
well wrapped up as he was; hungry, probably, for he had looked very wistfully around him as
he passed through the busy, well-lighted market, where many a merry group were laughing and
joking over their purchase of the morrow's Christmas dinner. But with all this, there was something
in his firm mouth and clear bright eye which showed that, as the Western farmer said, on seeing
Washington's portrait, "You wouldn't git that man to leave 'fore he's ready."

Picking up the bag and bundle which he had laid down for a moment, our hero entered the wharf
house.

"Clear the way there!"

"Look out ahead!"

"Stand o' one side, will yer?"

"Now, sir, hurry up--boat's jist a-goin!"

"Arrah, now, kape yer umbrelly out o' me ribs, can't ye? Sure I'm not fat enough for the spit yet!'

"Hallo, bub! it's death by the law to walk into the river without a license. Guess you want
to keep farther off the edge o' the pier."

The boy's head seemed to reel with his sudden plunge into all this bustle and uproar, to which
even that of the crowded streets outside was as nothing. Men were rushing hither and thither,
as if their lives depended on it, with tools, coils of rope, bundles of clothing, and trucks
of belated freight. Dockmen, sailors, stevedores, porters, hackmen, outward-bound passengers,
and visitors coming ashore again after taking leave of their friends, jostled each other; and
all this, seen under the fitful lamp-light, with the great black waste of the shadowy river
behind it, seemed like the whirl of a troubled dream.

And the farther he went, the more did the confusion increase. Here stood a portly gray-beard
shouting and storming over the loss of his purse, which he presently found safe in his inner
pocket; there a timid old lady in spectacles was vainly screaming after a burly porter who
was carrying off her trunk in the wrong direction; an unlucky dog, trodden on in the press,
was yelling; and an enormously fat man, having in his hurry jammed his carpet-bag between two
other men even fatter than himself, was roaring to them to move aside, while they in their
turn were asking fiercely what he meant by "pushing in where he wasn't wanted."

Suddenly the clang of a bell pierced this Babel of mingled noises, while a hoarse voice shouted,
"All aboard that's going! landsmen ashore!"

The boy sprang forward, flew across the gang-plank just as it began to move, and leaped on
deck with such energy as to run his head full butt into the chest of a passing sailor, nearly
knocking him down.

"Now, then, where are yer a-shovin' to?" growled the aggrieved tar, in gruff English accents.
"If yer thinks yer 'ead was only made to ram into other folks' insides, it's my b'lief yer
ought to ha' been born a cannon-ball."

But the lad had flown past, and darting through a hatchway, reached the upper deck, where a
group of sailors were gathered round a cannon. On its breech an officer had spread a paper,
which a big good-natured Connaught man was awkwardly endeavoring to sign. After several floundering
attempts with his huge hairy right hand, he suddenly shifted the pen to his left.

"Are you left-handed, my man?" asked the officer.

"Faith, my mother used to say I was whiniver she gev me annything to do," answered Paddy, with
a grin; "but this is my right hand, properly spaking, ounly it's got on the left side by mistake.
'Twas my ould uncle Dan (rest his sowl!) taught me that thrick. 'Dinnis, me bhoy,' he'd be
always sayin', 'ye should aiven l'arn to clip yer finger-nails wid the left hand, for fear
ye'd some day lose the right.'"

This "bull" drew a shout of laughter from all who heard it, and the officer, turning his head
to conceal a smile, caught sight of our hero.

"Hallo! another landsman! Boatswain, hold that gang-plank a moment, or we'll be taking this
youngster to sea with us."

"That's just what I want," cried the boy, vehemently. "Will you take me, sir?"

"Run away from home, of course," muttered the officer. "That's what comes of reading Robinson
Crusoe--they all do it. Well, my lad, as I see it's too late to put you ashore now, what do
you want to ship as? Ever at sea before?"

"No, sir; but I'll take any place you like to give me."

"Sign here, then."

And down went the name of "Frank Austin," under the printed heading of "Working Passenger."
The officer went off with the paper, the sailors dispersed, and Frank was left alone.

Gradually the countless lights of New York, Brooklyn, and Jersey City sank behind, as the vessel
neared the great gulf of darkness beyond the Narrows. Tompkins Light, Fort Lafayette, Sandy
Hook, slipped by one by one. The bar was crossed, the light-ship passed, and now no sound broke
the dreary silence but the rush of the steamer through the dark waters, with the "Highland
Lights" watching her like two steadfast eyes.

Of what was the lonely boy thinking as he stood there on the threshold of his first voyage?
Did he picture to himself, swimming, through a hail of Dutch and English cannon-shot with the
dispatch that turned the battle, the round black head of a little cabin-boy who was one day
to be Admiral Sir Cloudesley Shovel? Did he see a vast dreary ice-field outspread beneath the
cold blue arctic sky, and midway across it the huge ungainly figure of a polar bear, held at
bay with the butt of an empty musket by a young middy whose name was Horatio Nelson? Was it
the low sandy shores of Egypt that he saw, reddened by the flames of a huge three-decker, aboard
of which the boy Casabianca

      "stood on the burning deck,
  Whence all but him had fled"?

Or were his visions of an English "reefer" being thrashed on his own ship by a young American
prisoner, who was thereafter to write his name in history as "Salamander" Farragut? Far from
it. Frank's thoughts were busy with the home he had left; and amid the cold and darkness, its
cozy fireside and bright circle of happy faces rose before him more distinctly than ever.

"Wonder if they've missed me yet? The boys'll be going out to the coasting hill presently to
shout for me: and sister Kate (dear little pet!), she'll be wondering why brother Frankie don't
come back to finish her sled as he promised. And what distress they'll all be in till they
get my first letter! and--"

"Hallo, youngster! skulking already! Come out o' that, and go for'ard, where you belong."

"I didn't mean to skulk, sir," said Frank, startled from his day-dream by this rough salutation.

"What? answering back, are ye? None o' yer slack. Go for'ard and get to work--smart, now!"

Frank obeyed, wondering whether this could really be the pleasant officer of a few hours before.
Down in the dark depths below him figures were flitting about under the dim lamp-light, sorting
cargo and "setting things straight," as well as the rolling of the ship would let them; and
our hero, wishing to be of some use, volunteered to help a grimy fireman in rolling up a hose-pipe.

But he soon repented his zeal. The hard casing bruised his unaccustomed hands terribly, and
it really seemed as if the work would never end. It ended, however, too soon for him; for the
pipe suddenly parted at the joint, and splash came a jet of ice-cold water in poor Frank's
face, drenching him from head to foot, and nearly knocking the breath out of his body.

"Why didn't you let go, then?" growled the ungrateful fireman, coolly disappearing through
a dark doorway, hose and all, while Frank, wet and shivering, crawled away to the engine-room.
Its warmth and brightness tempted him to enter and sit down in a corner; but he was hardly
settled there when a man in a glazed cap roughly ordered him out again.

Off went the unlucky boy once more, with certain thoughts of his own as to the "pleasures"
of a sea life, which made Gulliver and Sindbad the Sailor appear not quite so reliable as before.
He dived into the "tween-decks" and sank down on a coil of rope, fairly tired out. But in another
moment he was stirred up again by a hearty shake, and the gleam of a lantern in his eyes, while
a hoarse though not unkindly voice said, "Come, lad, you're only in the way here; go below
and turn in."

Frank could not help thinking that it was time to turn in, after being so often turned out.
Down he went, and found himself in a close, ill-lighted, stifling place (where hardly anything
could be seen, and a great deal too much smelled) lined with what seemed like monster chests
of drawers, with a man in each drawer, while others were swinging in their hammocks. He crept
into one of the bare wooden bunks, drew the musty blanket over him, and, taking his bundle
for a pillow, was asleep in a moment, despite the loud snoring of some of his companions, and
the half-tipsy shouting and quarrelling of the rest.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

A FAIRY FLIGHT.

BY ROSE TERRY COOKE.

  A fairy lived in a lily bell--
    Ring, sing, columbine!
  In frosts she stole a wood-snail's shell,
    Till soft the sun should shine;
  And spring-time comes again, my dear,
    And spring-time comes again,
  With rattling showers, and wakened flowers,
    And bristling blades of grain.

  And, oh! the lily bell was sweet--
    Ring, swing, columbine!
  But the snail shell pinched her little feet,
    And suns were slow to shine.
  It's long till spring-time comes, my dear,
    Till spring-time comes again:
  The year delays its smiling days,
    And snow-drifts heap the plain.

  The fairy caught a butterfly--
    Swing, cling, columbine!
  The last that dared to float and fly
    When pale the sun did shine;
  For spring is slow to come, my dear,
    Is slow to come again,
  And far away doth summer play,
    Beyond the roaring main.

  She mounted on her painted steed--
    Ring, cling, columbine!
  And well he served that fairy's need,
    And hot the sun did shine.
  The spring she followed fast, my dear,
    She followed it amain;
  Where blossoms throng the whole year long
    She found the spring again.

  Oh, fairy sweet! come back once more--
    Ring, swing, columbine!
  When grass is green on hill and shore,
    And summer sunbeams shine.
  What if the spring is late, my dear,
    And comes with dropping rain?
  When roses blow and rivers flow,
    Come back to us again.

ANIMALS THAT LOVE MUSIC.

Music affects animals differently. Some rejoice, and are evidently happy when listening to
it, while others show unmistakable dislike to the sound.

For some years my father lived in an old Hall in the neighborhood of one of our large towns,
and there I saw the influence of music upon many animals. There was a beautiful horse, the
pride and delight of us all, and like many others, he disliked being caught. One very hot summer
day I was sitting at work in the garden, when old Willy the gardener appeared, streaming with
perspiration.

"What is the matter, Willy?"

"Matter enough, miss. There's that Robert, the uncanny beast; he won't be caught, all I can
do or say. I've give him corn, and one of the best pears off the tree; but he's too deep for
me--he snatched the pear, kicked up his heels, and off he is, laughing at me, at the bottom
of the meadow."

"Well, Willy, what can I do? He won't let me catch him, you know."

"Ay, but, miss, if you will only just go in and begin a toon on the peanner, cook says he will
come up to the fence and hearken to you, for he is always a-doing that; and maybe I can slip
behind and cotch him."

I went in at once, not expecting my stratagem to succeed. But in a few minutes the saucy creature
was standing quietly listening while I played "Scots, wha hae wi' Wallace bled." The halter
was soon round his neck, and he went away to be harnessed, quite happy and contented.

There was a great peculiarity about his taste for music. He never would stay to listen to a
plaintive song. I soon observed this. If I played "Scots, wha hae," he would listen, well pleased.
If I changed the measure and expression, playing the same air plaintively, he would toss his
head and walk away, as if to say, "That is not my sort of music." Changing to something martial,
he would return and listen to me.

In this respect he entirely differed from a beautiful cow we had. She had an awful temper.
She never would go with the other cows at milking-time. She liked the cook, and, when not too
busy, cook would manage Miss Nancy. When the cook milked her, it was always close to the fence,
near the drawing-room. If I were playing, she would stand perfectly still, yielding her milk
without any trouble, and would remain until I ceased. As long as I played plaintive music--the
"Land o' the Leal," "Home, Sweet Home," "Robin Adair," any sweet, tender air--she seemed entranced.
I have tried her, and changed to martial music, whereupon she invariably walked away.

HOW MANY WORLDS?

"Professor," asked May, "are there more worlds with people on them like this one of ours?"

"That is a hard question," said he. "For many ages it was believed that there could be only
one. More recently, when astronomers learned by the aid of their telescopes the countless number
of the heavenly bodies, it began to be doubted whether such an immense creation could be destitute
of intelligent creatures like man; and it was argued that most likely the Almighty had supplied
the heavenly bodies with inhabitants, but had for some good reason thought best not to reveal
the fact to us, perhaps because our attention might be too much drawn away from the truths
that He wished us particularly to remember. At last, however, men of science, continuing their
researches, seem to be settling back in the first opinion."

"Why is that?" asked Joe.

"Because they find reasons for thinking that our earth has had human beings on it only a very
little while in comparison with its own existence. And if this world was millions of years
without man, then, of course, any or all the heavenly bodies may still be without any such
creature on them."

"Is there no better reason than that?" asked Joe.

"Yes, there is considerable evidence that the bodies nearest to us can not be inhabited by
any creatures at all like man. On the moon, for instance, there is no air to breathe and no
water to drink. And without air and water there can be no grass, trees, or plants of any kind,
and no food for any animal. And besides starving, all creatures that we know of would immediately
freeze to death; for the moon is excessively cold. The nights are about thirty times as long
as ours, and allow each portion of its surface to get so cold that nothing could live."

"How did the moon get so cold?" asked Joe. "What became of the heat?"

"It went off into the surrounding space, which is all very cold. Empty space does not get warmed
by the sun, whose heat seems chiefly to lodge in solid bodies and dense fluids."

"But some of the planets are larger than the moon, are they not?" asked Joe.

"Yes, Jupiter, for instance, is very much larger than the moon and the earth; and Professor
Proctor tells us it will take Jupiter millions of years to become as cool as the earth, while
the moon was as cool as the earth millions of years ago. Here is a picture of the planet; but
its surface is changing so constantly, that it seldom appears the same on two nights in succession.
Jupiter at present is wrapped in enormous volumes of thin cloud that rises up from a melted
and boiling mass in the centre. Professor Newcomb supposes that there is only a comparatively
small core of liquid, the greater part of the planet being made up of seething vapor. So you
see it would be about as difficult to live on Jupiter as in a steam-boiler, or a caldron of
molten lead. Since last summer a great red spot has been noticed on the surface of the planet,
which has attracted much attention. Some think it is an immense opening, large enough for our
earth to be dropped through."

"Are the other planets such dreadful places?" asked May.

"Saturn seems to be in about the same condition as Jupiter. Mars is thought to be solid, and
to have land, water, and air. It has also two brilliant white spots on opposite sides, which
are supposed to be vast fields of ice and snow. But the water seems to be disappearing; and
the time when the planet could be inhabited is thought to be long gone by."

"Where does the water go?" asked Joe.

"Probably it sinks into the cracks or fissures which form in the crust of the planet when it
begins to shrivel up with the cold."

"Then it must be like a great frozen grave-yard," said May. "But is there no other planet that
is pleasanter to think about?"

"The one that seems on the whole to be most like our own is Venus, and so Professor Proctor
calls it our sister planet. It is so close to the sun that it is hidden most of the time, being
only seen for a while before sunrise, and at other times a while after sunset. In the one case
it is called the morning, and in the other the evening star. Also there is Mercury, still nearer
the sun, and hidden almost all the time."

"Then," said May, "there seems to be no way of knowing anything about there being people like
us in other worlds; and the more we look into it, the more uncertain we become."

"That is about the way the case stands," said the Professor. "But if science continues to make
as rapid progress as it has lately done, we may hope that it will yet throw more light on the
question."

"How many planets are there?" asked Joe.

"Until quite recent times there were supposed to be only the five we have mentioned. Since
the beginning of the present century about two hundred little planets, called asteroids, have
been discovered between the orbits, or paths, of Mars and Jupiter. Then there are Uranus and
Neptune, very far off from the sun and from us, so much so that the latter was mistaken for
a fixed star."

"Professor," said May, "you mentioned the moon as being near to us. Can you explain to us how
its distance is measured, so that we can understand it?"

"And then, Professor," said Jack, "I would like to know what parallax means."

"There," said Gus, "is another big word of Jack's--pallylacks, knickknacks, gimcracks, slapjacks!"

"Hush, you goose."

"I think," said the Professor, "I can answer May's and Jack's questions both at once, as they
are very closely connected. Suppose that at night, when you look down the street, you see two
gas lamps, one much farther off than the other. Then if you go across the street, the nearer
lamp will seem to move in the opposite way from what you did. Thus, in the diagram, when you
are at A, the nearer lamp is on the right of the other, and when you go over to B and look
at it, it is on the left. This change in direction is called parallax. Now we can imagine the
nearer one of the lights to be the moon, and that an observatory, or tower with a telescope
in it, is located at A, from which the direction of the moon is carefully noted at six o'clock
in the morning. Then by six in the evening the earth, spinning round on its axis, will have
carried the observatory about 8000 miles away from A, and placed it at, say, B. If the moon's
direction be again noted, it is very easy to calculate her distance by a branch of mathematics
called trigonometry, which Jack, I have no doubt, has already studied."

A FOUR-FOOTED MESSENGER

Just after the raising of the siege of Fort Stanwix, in the Mohawk Valley, the neighborhood
continued to be infested with prowling bands of Indians.

Captain Gregg and a companion were out shooting one day, and were just preparing to return
to the fort, when two shots were fired in quick succession, and Gregg saw his comrade fall,
while he himself felt a wound in his side which so weakened him that he speedily fell.

Two Indians at the same time sprang out of the bushes, and rushed toward him. Gregg saw that
his only hope was to feign death, and succeeded in lying perfectly still while the Indians
tore off his scalp.

As soon as they had gone, he endeavored to reach his companion, but had no sooner got to his
feet than he fell again. A second effort succeeded no better, but the third time he managed
to reach the spot where his comrade lay, only to find him lifeless. He rested his head upon
the bloody body, and the position afforded him some relief.

But the comfort of this position was destroyed by a small dog, which had accompanied him on
his expedition, manifesting his sympathy by whining, yelping, and leaping around his master.
He endeavored to force him away, but his efforts were in vain until he exclaimed, "If you wish
so much to help me, go and call some one to my relief."

To his surprise, the animal immediately bounded off at his utmost speed.

He made his way to where three men were fishing, a mile from the scene of the tragedy, and
as he came up to them began to whine and cry, and endeavored, by bounding into the woods and
returning again and again, to induce them to follow him.

These actions of the dog convinced the men that there was some unusual cause, and they resolved
to follow him.

They proceeded for some distance, but finding nothing, and darkness setting in, they became
alarmed, and started to return. The dog now became almost frantic, and catching hold of their
coats with his teeth, strove to force them to follow him.

The men were astonished at this pertinacity, and finally concluded to go with him a little
further, and presently came to where Gregg was lying, still alive. They buried his companion,
and carried the captain to the fort. Strange as it may seem, the wounds of Gregg, severe as
they were, healed in time, and he recovered his perfect health.

WILL'S BELGIAN NIGHT.

BY MATTHEW WHITE, JUN.

"Just like so many sheep!"

This was Will Brooks's exclamation, as he waited, with his elder brother Charlie, at the Northern
Railroad station, in Paris. And truth to tell, the passengers were driven about and distributed
somewhat after the manner of flocks, for, having purchased their tickets, they were obliged
to pass along a corridor, opening into which were medium-sized waiting-rooms, separated from
one another only by low partitions, and labelled, so to speak, as first, second, and third
class. Here they were compelled to wait until five or ten minutes before the train was to leave,
during which interval everybody endeavored to obtain the place nearest the door, so as to be
sure of a choice of seats in the cars. Will and his brother had succeeded in getting pretty
near the knob, where they were nearly suffocated with bad air, and much bruised by the satchels
and umbrellas of their fellow-travellers.

"Now, Will, be ready," said Charlie, as a man was seen to approach with a key in his hand.

"All right; America to the front!" returned his patriotic brother; and at the same moment the
doors were flung open, and in his nasal French tones the guard sang out, "Pour Liege, Aix-la-Chapelle,
et Cologne!"

With a rush as of the sudden breaking away of a long pent-up mountain stream, the crowds surged
forth from their "pens," and ran frantically up and down the long platform in search of the
carriages for which they were respectively booked. The first-class compartment which Will and
his brother had selected was speedily occupied by the six others required to fill it, their
companions consisting of a gentleman and his wife, an old lady and a little boy, and two young
men, evidently all French. Everybody had got nicely settled, the luggage was arranged in the
racks overhead, and the train was just about to start, when a lady mounted to the doorway,
with a little girl in one hand, and a bag, basket, and umbrella in the other. With a great
volume of French she endeavored to thrust the child into the compartment, but was forced to
desist from the attempt in deference to the remonstrances of the majority of those who already
occupied it.

"C'est complet! c'est complet!" was the cry, and in the midst of the confusion the guard approached
to close the doors preparatory to starting. To him the distressed lady appealed in behalf of
her offspring, for whom, she declared, there was no room in any of the carriages, and further
stated that she herself was obliged to remain with her youngest, who was at present in charge
of her next to the youngest in another car. The guard was finally obliged to settle matters
by delaying the train, and adding thereto another carriage.

The conversation incidental to the foregoing episode had been interpreted to Will by his brother,
whose French had been polished up considerably during his three weeks' stay in Paris. He and
Will were over for an autumn tour in Europe, and having "done" the British Isles and the capital
of France, they were now on their way to Germany.

Will had enjoyed his trip thus far immensely, even though he knew no modern language but his
American English, and he now looked forward to seeing the wonders of the father-land with all
the bright anticipations of fourteen.

"What's that for, I wonder?" he suddenly exclaimed, catching sight of a small triangular piece
of looking-glass set in the upholstery at the back of the front seat of the compartment. "Read
what it says underneath, Charlie;" which the latter accordingly did, reporting that it was
a device for calling the guard in cases of emergency, the way of doing so being to break the
glass and pull a cord which would be discovered in the recess thus exposed, which cord communicated
with the engine. But if the glass be broken, the notice went on to state, without sufficient
cause, a heavy fine would be imposed on the offender.

"But suppose I couldn't read French, as indeed I can't," surmised Will, "and were in here alone--that
is, alone in company with a crazy man who was about to murder me--how could I ever imagine
that by smashing that bit of glass I might stop the train, and so be rescued? Besides--"

"Nonsense!" interrupted his brother. "Don't you see the directions are repeated both in English
and German underneath?" and Will looked and saw, and immediately turned his attention out of
the window, leaving Charlie to peruse his French newspaper in peace.

