"No," he sighed, "the MINISTER for AGRICULTURE has no off-nights; and if I go to church at
the seaside on a Sunday, the Church-warden in passing round the collection-plate, is sure to
steal into my hand a telegram, announcing a fresh outbreak of tuberculosis. As to going out
to dinner----"

"Ministers," CAUSTON here observed, "never dine out when the House is sitting, unless commanded
by the QUEEN, and Whips can't be spared even to dine with HER MAJESTY."

"As to going out to dinner," continued the GRAND YOUNG GARDNER, ignoring the interruption of
his genial colleague, "it is impossible. It was said, I believe by one of themselves, 'The
Guard dies, but never surrenders.' I may add, the MINISTER for AGRICULTURE lunches but never
dines. What would become of the Government if a division-bell rang and he was found out of
the way? Now to-night, you would say, looking at the business, I might well be spared. We commence
with KIMBER on disparities in the representation of constituencies. ROLLIT will follow in the
interests of undersized flat-fish. What has the MINISTER for AGRICULTURE to do with flat-fish
of whatever size? you might ask. To the casual observer, nothing. But, looking ahead, as the
responsibilities of my position make it necessary I should habitually do, I recall the fact
that sometimes the placid pilchard is cast upon our shores in such quantities as to be carted
away for manurial purposes. I am not intimately acquainted with the pilchard. It is not like
the terrapin a land fish. I am not sure it is flat. Still I have a strong impression it is
undersized. Therefore it might come within the purview of the discussion on ROLLIT'S motion.
MUNDELLA, as you say, is in charge of the debate, and I might comfortably go to dinner. But
what does MUNDELLA know of manure? No; the MINISTER for AGRICULTURE remains, and will dine,--if
necessary die, at his post."

Business done.--8:10 P.M., House Counted Out, whilst GRAND YOUNG GARDNER is explaining how
it was he couldn't go out to dinner.

Friday, 12:30 A.M.--Storm subsided. Magnificent whilst it lasted. GRANDOLPH in fine form. Mr.
G., under his influence, renewed his youth like the eagle. At same time, though Welsh Church
may be doomed, supply of cabs on night like this inadequate. Better be put in yard in good
time. KENYON lingers on scene, still asking for Bill to be "taken de die in diem." "As if he
were giving a prescription," said WILFRID LAWSON, back from Mansion House, where he has seen
his portrait presented to Lady LAWSON. KENYON, with eye on Bishop of ST. ASAPH, up in Peers'
Gallery, made desperate resistance to attack on Church. Bishop looked a little grave when KENYON
dropped into metaphor.

"Bill like bagged fox, don't you know," said KENYON, nodding confidentially to SPEAKER. "Meant
to run any way you like. What I mean to say is--" and here he turned for approval to Lord Bishop,
consorting in Gallery with his fighting Dean, "this fox is so tainted with insincerity, or
aniseed, that the hounds may just as well shut up their noses, and have nothing to do with it."

With this sage remark, and, something horribly like a wink at the Bishop, KENYON sat down.
Up again later, when Closure moved. HICKS-BEACH, in temporary command of Opposition, deprecated
resistance. But KENYON'S blood up. With strong effort of self-restraint he stopped himself
midway in stentorian shout, "Yoicks!" dexterously turned the "Yo" into "No," and so saved himself
from reproof of SPEAKER. Having got the "No!" he made most of it. Nothing left but to clear
House for Division. Members near entreated KENYON to desist from further opposition. No use
fighting Closure; only meant another Division and twenty minutes' prolongation of sitting.
KENYON, with eye reverently fixed on Bishop, immovable. Others might falter on the way; might
palter with the truth; might parlay with the enemy. KENYON would have no compromise, no surrender.
"Yoic----" he meant "No! no!" and he shouted it too.

"Will the Hon. Member name another teller?" said the wary SPEAKER, when House cleared for Division.
KENYON, evidently still seeing the fox steal away, Aniseed at the Helm and Insincerity at the
Prow, almost stumbled on the name "YOICKS!" Again stopped himself just in time, and looked
forlornly round; eye finally resting on Peers' Gallery. If only the Bishop could "tell" with
him! That evidently out of order. Bishop belonged, to other House. No one volunteering to stand
with him in the breach, and two tellers being a necessary preliminary to Division, KENYON bent
his head in silent grief, and leave given to bring in Bill which ASQUITH remorselessly admitted
was first step towards Disestablishment of Welsh Church.

Business done.--Welsh Church Suspensory Bill read First Time, by majority of 56, in excited
House of 546 Members.

Friday Night.--After the storm, the customary calm. Spent night in discussing tempting themes
of Local Taxation in London, and Superannuation of School-teachers. On latter subject that
preux Chevalier, TEMPLE, laying down the lute, and leaving Amaryllis in the shade, delivered
luminous speech; convinced CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER; made him promise to fork out.

Business done.--Much of useful kind.

       *       *       *       *       *

"SUPPOSITIOUS."--"Well," observed our old friend, who was discussing a recent case that had
been headed "Romance in the Court of Chancery," "this all comes from bringing up a child that
they pretended was their own. I mean what they call 'A Superstitious Child.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

QUITE ANOTHER THING.--With reference to a recent burglary at Sir THOMAS PIGOT'S, it is stated
that "thieves were known to be in the neighbourhood, and the police have the matter in hand."
Wouldn't it be better if they had the thieves there?