Page 234, l. 4. David would have sung his praises instead of writing a psalm, and so Heaven
would have had one psalm the less.

ll. 5, 6. Macaulay pointed out in his essay on Sir William Temple that these lines are a reminiscence
of a couplet under the portrait of Sultan Mustapha the First in Knolles's Historie of the Turkes
(ed. 1638, p. 1370):

  Greatnesse, on Goodnesse loues to slide, not stand,
  and leaues for Fortunes ice, Vertues firm land.

l. 15. The alleged Popish Plot, invented by Titus Oates, to murder the king and put the government
in the hands of the Jesuits. Shaftesbury had no share in the invention, but he believed it,
and made political use of it.

Page 235, l. 4. This line reappears in The Hind and the Panther, Part I, l. 211. As W.D. Christie
pointed out, it is a reminiscence of a couplet in Lachrymæ Musarum, 1649, the volume to which
Dryden contributed his school-boy verses 'Upon the Death of the Lord Hastings':

  It is decreed, we must be drain'd (I see)
  Down to the dregs of a Democracie.

This is the opening couplet of the English poem preceding Dryden's, and signed 'M.N.' i.e.
Marchamont Needham (p. 81).

70.

Burnet's History of His Own Time. Vol. i. (p. 100.)

'The portrait of this Duke has been drawn by four masterly hands: Burnet has hewn it out with
his rough chissel; Count Hamilton touched it with that slight delicacy, that finishes while
it seems but to sketch; Dryden catched the living likeness; Pope compleated the historical
resemblance.'--Horace Walpole, Royal and Noble Authors, ed. 1759, vol. ii, p. 78.

There is also Butler's prose character of 'A Duke of Bucks', first printed in Thyer's edition
of the Genuine Remains of Butler, 1759, vol. ii, pp. 72-5, but written apparently about 1667-9.
And there is a verse character in Duke's Review.

Page 235, l. 11. a great liveliness of wit. In the first sketch Burnet wrote 'he has a flame
in his wit that is inimitable'. It lives in The Rehearsal. His 'Miscellaneous Works' were collected
in two volumes by Tom Brown, 1704-5.

Page 236, l. 12. Compare Butler: 'one that has studied the whole Body of Vice.'

l. 14. Sir Henry Percy, created Baron Percy of Alnwick in 1643. He was then general of the
ordinance of the king's army. He joined the Queen's party in France in 1645.

l. 15. Hobbs. For Burnet's view of Hobbes, see p. 246, ll. 21 ff.

71.

Absalom and Achitophel. Second Edition. 1681. (ll. 543-68.)

Dryden is his own best critic: 'The Character of Zimri in my Absalom, is, in my Opinion, worth
the whole Poem: 'Tis not bloody, but 'tis ridiculous enough. And he for whom it was intended,
was too witty to resent it as an injury. If I had rail'd, I might have suffer'd for it justly:
But I manag'd my own Work more happily, perhaps more dextrously.

Page 236, ll. 28 ff.

Burnet's History of His Own Time. Vol. i. (pp. 267-8.)

This is not one of Burnet's best characters. He did not see the political wisdom that lay behind
the ready wit. Halifax was too subtle for Burnet's heavy-handed grasp. To recognize the inadequacy
of this short-sighted estimate, it is sufficient to have read the 'Character of King Charles
II' (No. 62).

Burnet suffered from Halifax's wit: 'In the House of Lords,' says the first Earl of Dartmouth,
'he affected to conclude all his discourses with a jest, though the subject were never so serious,
and if it did not meet with the applause he expected, would be extremely out of countenance
and silent, till an opportunity offered to retrieve the approbation he thought he had lost;
but was never better pleased than when he was turning Bishop Burnet and his politics into ridicule'
(Burnet, ed. Airy, vol. i, p. 485).

Dryden understood Halifax, the Jotham of his Absalom and Achitophel:

