IN TWO VOLUMES

VOLUME I

Containing the first volume of the 1903 edition

                         DEDICATION.

                      TO THE MEMORY OF
SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON, BART., K.C.B., G.C.ST.A., G.C.ST.S.,
                            ETC.
                    THE PERFECT FRIEND
    WHO FIRST BROUGHT HENRY YULE AND JOHN MURRAY TOGETHER
         (HE ENTERED INTO REST, OCTOBER 22ND, 1871,)
            AND TO THAT OF HIS MUCH LOVED NIECE,
                 HARRIET ISABELLA MURCHISON,
        WIFE OF KENNETH ROBERT MURCHISON, D.L., J.P.,
         (SHE ENTERED INTO REST, AUGUST 9TH, 1902,)
     UNDER WHOSE EVER HOSPITABLE ROOF MANY OF THE PROOF
           SHEETS OF THIS EDITION WERE READ BY ME,
                I DEDICATE THESE VOLUMES FROM
                   THE OLD MURCHISON HOME,
           IN THANKFUL REMEMBRANCE OF ALL I OWE TO
    THE ABIDING AFFECTION, SYMPATHY, AND EXAMPLE OF BOTH.

TARADALE,                               AMY FRANCES YULE. ROSS-SHIRE,                     
SEPTEMBER 11TH, 1902. SCOTLAND.

       *     *     *     *
      Ed è da noi sì strano,
    Che quando ne ragiono
      I' non trovo nessuno,
    Che l'abbia navicato,
       *     *     *     *
    Le parti del Levante,
      Là dove sono tante
    Gemme di gran valute
      E di molta salute:
    E sono in quello giro
      Balsamo, e ambra, e tiro,
    E lo pepe, e lo legno
      Aloe, ch' è sì degno,
    E spigo, e cardamomo,
      Giengiovo, e cennamomo;
    E altre molte spezie,
      Ciascuna in sua spezie,
    E migliore, e più fina,
      E sana in medicina.
    Appresso in questo loco
      Mise in assetto loco
    Li tigri, e li grifoni,
      Leofanti, e leoni
    Cammelli, e dragomene,
      Badalischi, e gene,
    E pantere, e castoro,
      Le formiche dell' oro,
    E tanti altri animali,
      Ch' io non so ben dir quail,
    Che son sì divisati,
      E sì dissomigliati
    Di corpo e di fazione,
      Di sì fera ragione,
    E di sì strana taglia,
      Ch'io non credo san faglia,
    Ch' alcun uomo vivente
      Potesse veramente
    Per lingua, o per scritture
      Recitar le figure
    Delle bestie, e gli uccelli....

        --From Il Tesoretto di Ser Brunetto Latini (circa MDCCLX.).
          (Florence, 1824, pp. 83 seqq.)

    [Greek:
    Ándra moi hénnepe, Mousa, polýtropon, hòs mála pollà
    Plágchthae   .   .   .   .   .   .   .
    Pollon d' anthrópon íden ástea kaì nóon égno].

                                                  TENNYSON.

    "A SEDER CI PONEMMO IVI AMBODUI
      VÔLTI A LEVANTE, OND' ERAVAM SALITI;
      CHÈ SUOLE A RIGUARDAR GIOVARE ALTRUI."

                                    DANTE, Purgatory, IV.

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

DEDICATION

NOTE BY MISS YULE

PREFACE TO THIRD EDITION

PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION

ORIGINAL PREFACE

ORIGINAL DEDICATION

MEMOIR OF SIR HENRY YULE BY AMY FRANCES YULE, L.A.SOC. ANT. SCOT.

A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SIR HENRY YULE'S WRITINGS

SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS

EXPLANATORY LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS TO VOL. I.

INTRODUCTORY NOTICES

THE BOOK OF MARCO POLO.

NOTE BY MISS YULE

I desire to take this opportunity of recording my grateful sense of the unsparing labour, learning,
and devotion, with which my father's valued friend, Professor Henri Cordier, has performed
the difficult and delicate task which I entrusted to his loyal friendship.

Apart from Professor Cordier's very special qualifications for the work, I feel sure that no
other Editor could have been more entirely acceptable to my father. I can give him no higher
praise than to say that he has laboured in Yule's own spirit.

The slight Memoir which I have contributed (for which I accept all responsibility), attempts
no more than a rough sketch of my father's character and career, but it will, I hope, serve
to recall pleasantly his remarkable individuality to the few remaining who knew him in his
prime, whilst it may also afford some idea of the man, and his work and environment, to those
who had not that advantage.

No one can be more conscious than myself of its many shortcomings, which I will not attempt
to excuse. I can, however, honestly say that these have not been due to negligence, but are
rather the blemishes almost inseparable from the fulfilment under the gloom of bereavement
and amidst the pressure of other duties, of a task undertaken in more favourable circumstances.

Nevertheless, in spite of all defects, I believe this sketch to be such a record as my father
would himself have approved, and I know also that he would have chosen my hand to write it.

In conclusion, I may note that the first edition of this work was dedicated to that very noble
lady, the Queen (then Crown Princess) Margherita of Italy. In the second edition the Dedication
was reproduced within brackets (as also the original preface), but not renewed. That precedent
is again followed.

I have, therefore, felt at liberty to associate the present edition of my father's work with
the Name MURCHISON, which for more than a generation was the name most generally representative
of British Science in Foreign Lands, as of Foreign Science in Britain.

A. F. YULE.

PREFACE TO THIRD EDITION

Little did I think, some thirty years ago, when I received a copy of the first edition of this
grand work, that I should be one day entrusted with the difficult but glorious task of supervising
the third edition. When the first edition of the Book of Ser Marco Polo reached "Far Cathay,"
it created quite a stir in the small circle of the learned foreigners, who then resided there,
and became a starting-point for many researches, of which the results have been made use of
partly in the second edition, and partly in the present. The Archimandrite PALLADIUS and Dr.
E. BRETSCHNEIDER, at Peking, ALEX. WYLIE, at Shang-hai--friends of mine who have, alas! passed
away, with the exception of the Right Rev. Bishop G. E. MOULE, of Hang-chau, the only survivor
of this little group of hard-working scholars,--were the first to explore the Chinese sources
of information which were to yield a rich harvest into their hands.

When I returned home from China in 1876, I was introduced to Colonel HENRY YULE, at the India
Office, by our common friend, Dr. REINHOLD ROST, and from that time we met frequently and kept
up a correspondence which terminated only with the life of the great geographer, whose friend
I had become. A new edition of the travels of Friar Odoric of Pordenone, our "mutual friend,"
in which Yule had taken the greatest interest, was dedicated by me to his memory. I knew that
Yule contemplated a third edition of his Marco Polo, and all will regret that time was not
allowed to him to complete this labour of love, to see it published. If the duty of bringing
out the new edition of Marco Polo has fallen on one who considers himself but an unworthy successor
of the first illustrious commentator, it is fair to add that the work could not have been entrusted
to a more respectful disciple. Many of our tastes were similar; we had the same desire to seek
the truth, the same earnest wish to be exact, perhaps the same sense of humour, and, what is
necessary when writing on Marco Polo, certainly the same love for Venice and its history. Not
only am I, with the late CHARLES SCHEFER, the founder and the editor of the Recueil de Voyages
et de Documents pour servir à l'Histoire de la Géographie depuis le XIII'e jusqu'à la fin du
XVI'e siècle, but I am also the successor, at the Ecole des langues Orientales Vivantes, of
G. PAUTHIER, whose book on the Venetian Traveller is still valuable, so the mantle of the last
two editors fell upon my shoulders.

I therefore, gladly and thankfully, accepted Miss AMY FRANCIS YULE'S kind proposal to undertake
the editorship of the third edition of the Book of Ser Marco Polo, and I wish to express here
my gratitude to her for the great honour she has thus done me.[1]

Unfortunately for his successor, Sir Henry Yule, evidently trusting to his own good memory,
left but few notes. These are contained in an interleaved copy obligingly placed at my disposal
by Miss Yule, but I luckily found assistance from various other quarters. The following works
have proved of the greatest assistance to me:--The articles of General HOUTUM-SCHINDLER in
the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, and the excellent books of Lord CURZON and of Major
P. MOLESWORTH SYKES on Persia, M. GRENARD'S account of DUTREUIL DE RHINS' Mission to Central
Asia, BRETSCHNEIDER'S and PALLADIUS' remarkable papers on Mediaeval Travellers and Geography,
and above all, the valuable books of the Hon. W. W. ROCKHILL on Tibet and Rubruck, to which
the distinguished diplomatist, traveller, and scholar kindly added a list of notes of the greatest
importance to me, for which I offer him my hearty thanks.

My thanks are also due to H.H. Prince ROLAND BONAPARTE, who kindly gave me permission to reproduce
some of the plates of his Recueil de Documents de l'Epoque Mongole, to M. LÉOPOLD DELISLE,
the learned Principal Librarian of the Bibliothèque Nationale, who gave me the opportunity
to study the inventory made after the death of the Doge Marino Faliero, to the Count de SEMALLÉ,
formerly French Chargé d'Affaires at Peking, who gave me for reproduction a number of photographs
from his valuable personal collection, and last, not least, my old friend Comm. NICOLÒ BAROZZI,
who continued to lend me the assistance which he had formerly rendered to Sir Henry Yule at Venice.

Since the last edition was published, more than twenty-five years ago, Persia has been more
thoroughly studied; new routes have been explored in Central Asia, Karakorum has been fully
described, and Western and South-Western China have been opened up to our knowledge in many
directions. The results of these investigations form the main features of this new edition
of Marco Polo. I have suppressed hardly any of Sir Henry Yule's notes and altered but few,
doing so only when the light of recent information has proved him to be in error, but I have
supplemented them by what, I hope, will be found useful, new information.[2]

Before I take leave of the kind reader, I wish to thank sincerely Mr. JOHN MURRAY for the courtesy
and the care he has displayed while this edition was going through the press.

  HENRI CORDIER.
  PARIS, 1st of October, 1902.

[1] Miss Yule has written the Memoir of her father and the new Dedication.

[2] Paragraphs which have been altered are marked thus +; my own additions
    are placed between brackets [ ].--H. C.

PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION.

The unexpected amount of favour bestowed on the former edition of this Work has been a great
encouragement to the Editor in preparing this second one.

Not a few of the kind friends and correspondents who lent their aid before have continued it
to the present revision. The contributions of Mr. A. WYLIE of Shang-hai, whether as regards
the amount of labour which they must have cost him, or the value of the result, demand above
all others a grateful record here. Nor can I omit to name again with hearty acknowledgment
Signor Comm. G. BERCHET of Venice, the Rev. Dr. CALDWELL, Colonel (now Major-General) R. MACLAGAN,
R.E., Mr. D. HANBURY, F.R.S., Mr. EDWARD THOMAS, F.R.S. (Corresponding Member of the Institute),
and Mr. R. H. MAJOR.

But besides these old names, not a few new ones claim my thanks.

The Baron F. VON RICHTHOFEN, now President of the Geographical Society of Berlin, a traveller
who not only has trodden many hundreds of miles in the footsteps of our Marco, but has perhaps
travelled over more of the Interior of China than Marco ever did, and who carried to that survey
high scientific accomplishments of which the Venetian had not even a rudimentary conception,
has spontaneously opened his bountiful stores of new knowledge in my behalf. Mr. NEY ELIAS,
who in 1872 traversed and mapped a line of upwards of 2000 miles through the almost unknown
tracts of Western Mongolia, from the Gate in the Great Wall at Kalghan to the Russian frontier
in the Altai, has done likewise.[1] To the Rev. G. MOULE, of the Church Mission at Hang-chau,
I owe a mass of interesting matter regarding that once great and splendid city, the KINSAY
of our Traveller, which has enabled me, I trust, to effect great improvement both in the Notes
and in the Map, which illustrate that subject. The learned Professor BRUUN, of Odessa, whom
I never have seen, and have little likelihood of ever seeing in this world, has aided me with
zeal and cordiality like that of old friendship. To Mr. ARTHUR BURNELL, Ph.D., of the Madras
Civil Service, I am grateful for many valuable notes bearing on these and other geographical
studies, and particularly for his generous communication of the drawing and photograph of the
ancient Cross at St. Thomas's Mount, long before any publication of that subject was made on
his own account. My brother officer, Major OLIVER ST. JOHN, R.E., has favoured me with a variety
of interesting remarks regarding the Persian chapters, and has assisted me with new data, very
materially correcting the Itinerary Map in Kerman.

Mr. BLOCHMANN of the Calcutta Madrasa, Sir DOUGLAS FORSYTH, C.B., lately Envoy to Kashgar,
M. de MAS LATRIE, the Historian of Cyprus, Mr. ARTHUR GROTE, Mr. EUGENE SCHUYLER of the U.S.
Legation at St. Petersburg, Dr. BUSHELL and Mr. W.F. MAYERS, of H.M.'s Legation at Peking,
Mr. G. PHILLIPS of Fuchau, Madame OLGA FEDTCHENKO, the widow of a great traveller too early
lost to the world, Colonel KEATINGE, V.C., C.S.I., Major-General KEYES, C.B., Dr. GEORGE BIRDWOOD,
Mr. BURGESS, of Bombay, my old and valued friend Colonel W. H. GREATHED, C.B., and the Master
of Mediaeval Geography, M. D'AVEZAC himself, with others besides, have kindly lent assistance
of one kind or another, several of them spontaneously, and the rest in prompt answer to my
requests.

Having always attached much importance to the matter of illustrations,[2] I feel greatly indebted
to the liberal action of Mr. Murray in enabling me largely to increase their number in this
edition. Though many are original, we have also borrowed a good many;[3] a proceeding which
seems to me entirely unobjectionable when the engravings are truly illustrative of the text,
and not hackneyed.

I regret the augmented bulk of the volumes. There has been some excision, but the additions
visibly and palpably preponderate. The truth is that since the completion of the first edition,
just four years ago, large additions have been made to the stock of our knowledge bearing on
the subjects of this Book; and how these additions have continued to come in up to the last
moment, may be seen in Appendix L,[4] which has had to undergo repeated interpolation after
being put in type. KARAKORUM, for a brief space the seat of the widest empire the world has
known, has been visited; the ruins of SHANG-TU, the "Xanadu of Cublay Khan," have been explored;
PAMIR and TANGUT have been penetrated from side to side; the famous mountain Road of SHEN-SI
has been traversed and described; the mysterious CAINDU has been unveiled; the publication
of my lamented friend Lieutenant Garnier's great work on the French Exploration of Indo-China
has provided a mass of illustration of that YUN-NAN for which but the other day Marco Polo
was well-nigh the most recent authority. Nay, the last two years have thrown a promise of light
even on what seemed the wildest of Marco's stories, and the bones of a veritable RUC from New
Zealand lie on the table of Professor Owen's Cabinet!

M. VIVIEN de St. MARTIN, during the interval of which we have been speaking, has published
a History of Geography. In treating of Marco Polo, he alludes to the first edition of this
work, most evidently with no intention of disparagement, but speaks of it as merely a revision
of Marsden's Book. The last thing I should allow myself to do would be to apply to a Geographer,
whose works I hold in so much esteem, the disrespectful definition which the adage quoted in
my former Preface[5] gives of the vir qui docet quod non sapit; but I feel bound to say that
on this occasion M. Vivien de St. Martin has permitted himself to pronounce on a matter with
which he had not made himself acquainted; for the perusal of the very first lines of the Preface
(I will say nothing of the Book) would have shown him that such a notion was utterly unfounded.

In concluding these "forewords" I am probably taking leave of Marco Polo,[6] the companion
of many pleasant and some laborious hours, whilst I have been contemplating with him ("vôlti
a levante") that Orient in which I also had spent years not a few.

       *       *       *       *       *

And as the writer lingered over this conclusion, his thoughts wandered back in reverie to those
many venerable libraries in which he had formerly made search for mediaeval copies of the Traveller's
story; and it seemed to him as if he sate in a recess of one of these with a manuscript before
him which had never till then been examined with any care, and which he found with delight
to contain passages that appear in no version of the Book hitherto known. It was written in
clear Gothic text, and in the Old French tongue of the early 14th century. Was it possible
that he had lighted on the long-lost original of Ramusio's Version? No; it proved to be different.
Instead of the tedious story of the northern wars, which occupies much of our Fourth Book,
there were passages occurring in the later history of Ser Marco, some years after his release
from the Genoese captivity. They appeared to contain strange anachronisms certainly; but we
have often had occasion to remark on puzzles in the chronology of Marco's story![7] And in
some respects they tended to justify our intimated suspicion that he was a man of deeper feelings
and wider sympathies than the book of Rusticiano had allowed to appear.[8] Perhaps this time
the Traveller had found an amanuensis whose faculties had not been stiffened by fifteen years
of Malapaga?[9] One of the most important passages ran thus:--

  "Bien est voirs que, après ce que Messires Marc Pol avoit pris fame et
  si estoit demouré plusours ans de sa vie a Venysse, il avint que
  mourut Messires Mafés qui oncles Monseignour Marc estoit: (et mourut
  ausi ses granz chiens mastins qu'avoit amenei dou Catai,[10] et qui
  avoit non Bayan pour l'amour au bon chievetain Bayan Cent-iex);
  adonc n'avoit oncques puis Messires Marc nullui, fors son esclave
  Piere le Tartar, avecques lequel pouvoit penre soulas à s'entretenir
  de ses voiages et des choses dou Levant. Car la gent de Venysse si
  avoit de grant piesce moult anuy pris des loncs contes Monseignour
  Marc; et quand ledit Messires Marc issoit de l'uys sa meson ou Sain
  Grisostome, souloient li petit marmot es voies dariere-li courir en
  cryant Messer Marco Miliòn! cont' a nu un busiòn! que veult dire en
  François 'Messires Marcs des millions di-nous un de vos gros mensonges.'
  En oultre, la Dame Donate fame anuyouse estoit, et de trop estroit
  esprit, et plainne de couvoitise.[11] Ansi avint que Messires Marc
  desiroit es voiages rantrer durement.

  "Si se partist de Venisse et chevaucha aux parties d'occident. Et
  demoura mainz jours es contrées de Provence et de France et puys
  fist passaige aux Ysles de la tremontaingne et s'en retourna par la
  Magne, si comme vous orrez cy-après. Et fist-il escripre son voiage
  atout les devisements les contrées; mes de la France n'y parloit mie
  grantment pour ce que maintes genz la scevent apertement. Et pour ce en
  lairons atant, et commencerons d'autres choses, assavoir, de BRETAINGNE
  LA GRANT."

    Cy devyse dou roiaume de Bretaingne la grant.

  "Et sachiés que quand l'en se part de Calés, et l'en nage XX ou XXX
  milles à trop grant mesaise, si treuve l'en une grandisme Ysle qui
  s'apelle Bretaingne la Grant. Elle est à une grant royne et n'en fait
  treuage à nulluy. Et ensevelissent lor mors, et ont monnoye de chartres
  et d'or et d'argent, et ardent pierres noyres, et vivent de marchandises
  et d'ars, et ont toutes choses de vivre en grant habondance mais non pas
  à bon marchié. Et c'est une Ysle de trop grant richesce, et li marinier
  de celle partie dient que c'est li plus riches royaumes qui soit ou
  monde, et qu'il y a li mieudre marinier dou monde et li mieudre coursier
  et li mieudre chevalier (ains ne chevauchent mais lonc com François).
  Ausi ont-il trop bons homes d'armes et vaillans durement (bien que maint
  n'y ait), et les dames et damoseles bonnes et loialles, et belles com
  lys souef florant. Et quoi vous en diroie-je? Il y a citez et chasteau
  assez, et tant de marchéanz et si riches qui font venir tant d'avoir-de-
  poiz et de toute espece de marchandise qu'il n'est hons qui la verité en
  sceust dire. Font venir d'Ynde et d'autres parties coton a grant
  planté, et font venir soye de Manzi et de Bangala, et font venir
  laine des ysles de la Mer Occeane et de toutes parties. Et si labourent
  maintz bouquerans et touailles et autres draps de coton et de laine et
  de soye. Encores sachiés que ont vaines d'acier assez, et si en
  labourent trop soubtivement de tous hernois de chevalier, et de toutes
  choses besoignables à ost; ce sont espées et glaive et esperon et heaume
  et haches, et toute espèce d arteillerie et de coutelerie, et en font
  grant gaaigne et grant marchandise. Et en font si grant habondance que
  tout li mondes en y puet avoir et à bon marchié".

    Encores cy devise dou dyt roiaume, et de ce qu'en dist Messires
    Marcs.

  "Et sachiés que tient icelle Royne la seigneurie de l'Ynde majeure et
  de Mutfili et de Bangala, et d'une moitié de Mien. Et moult est
  saige et noble dame et pourvéans, si que est elle amée de chascun. Et
  avoit jadis mari; et depuys qu'il mourut bien XIV ans avoit; adonc la
  royne sa fame l'ama tant que oncques puis ne se voult marier a nullui,
  pour l'amour le prince son baron, ançois moult maine quoye vie. Et tient
  son royaume ausi bien ou miex que oncques le tindrent li roy si aioul.
  Mes ores en ce royaume li roy n'ont guieres pooir, ains la poissance
  commence a trespasser à la menue gent Et distrent aucun marinier de
  celes parties à Monseignour Marc que hui-et-le jour li royaumes soit
  auques abastardi come je vous diroy. Car bien est voirs que ci-arrières
  estoit ciz pueple de Bretaingne la Grant bonne et granz et loialle
  gent qui servoit Diex moult volontiers selonc lor usaige; et tuit li
  labour qu'il labouroient et portoient a vendre estoient honnestement
  labouré, et dou greigneur vaillance, et chose pardurable; et se
  vendoient à jouste pris sanz barguignier. En tant que se aucuns labours
  portoit l'estanpille Bretaingne la Grant c'estoit regardei com pleges
  de bonne estoffe. Mes orendroit li labours n'est mie tousjourz si bons;
  et quand l'en achate pour un quintal pesant de toiles de coton, adonc,
  par trop souvent, si treuve l'en de chascun C pois de coton, bien XXX ou
  XL pois de plastre de gifs, ou de blanc d'Espaigne, ou de choses
  semblables. Et se l'en achate de cammeloz ou de tireteinne ou d'autre
  dras de laine, cist ne durent mie, ains sont plain d'empoise, ou de glu
  et de balieures.

  "Et bien qu'il est voirs que chascuns hons egalement doit de son cors
  servir son seigneur ou sa commune, pour aler en ost en tens de
  besoingne; et bien que trestuit li autre royaume d'occident tieingnent
  ce pour ordenance, ciz pueple de Bretaingne la Grant n'en veult
  nullement, ains si dient: 'Veez-là: n'avons nous pas la Manche pour
  fossé de nostre pourpris, et pourquoy nous penerons-nous pour nous faire
  homes d'armes, en lessiant nos gaaignes et nos soulaz? Cela lairons aus
  soudaiers.' Or li preudhome entre eulx moult scevent bien com tiex
  paroles sont nyaises; mes si ont paour de lour en dire la verité pour ce
  que cuident desplaire as bourjois et à la menue gent.

  "Or je vous di sanz faille que, quand Messires Marcs Pols sceust ces
  choses, moult en ot pitié de cestui pueple, et il li vint à remembrance
  ce que avenu estoit, ou tens Monseignour Nicolas et Monseignour
  Mafé, à l'ore quand Alau, frère charnel dou Grant Sire Cublay, ala
  en ost seur Baudas, et print le Calife et sa maistre cité, atout son
  vaste tresor d'or et d'argent, et l'amère parolle que dist ledit Alau au
  Calife, com l'a escripte li Maistres Rusticiens ou chief de cestui
  livre.[12]

  "Car sachiés tout voirement que Messires Marc moult se deleitoit à
  faire appert combien sont pareilles au font les condicions des diverses
  regions dou monde, et soloit-il clorre son discours si disant en son
  language de Venisse: 'Sto mondo xe fato tondo, com uzoit dire mes
  oncles Mafés.'

  "Ore vous lairons à conter de ceste matière et retournerons à parler de
  la Loy des genz de Bretaingne la Grant.

    Cy devise des diverses créances de la gent Bretaingne la Grant et de
    ce qu'en cuidoit Messires Marcs.

  "Il est voirs que li pueples est Crestiens, mes non pour le plus selonc
  la foy de l'Apostoille Rommain, ains tiennent le en mautalent assez.
  Seulement il y en a aucun qui sont féoil du dit Apostoille et encore
  plus forment que li nostre prudhome de Venisse. Car quand dit li
  Papes: 'Telle ou telle chose est noyre,' toute ladite gent si en jure:
  'Noyre est com poivre.' Et puis se dira li Papes de la dite chose: 'Elle
  est blanche,' si en jurera toute ladite gent: 'Il est voirs qu'elle est
  blanche; blanche est com noifs.' Et dist Messires Marc Pol: 'Nous
  n'avons nullement tant de foy à Venyse, ne li prudhome de Florence
  non plus, com l'en puet savoir bien apertement dou livre Monseignour
  Dantès Aldiguiere, que j'ay congneu a Padoe le meisme an que
  Messires Thibault de Cepoy à Venisse estoit.[13] Mes c'est
  joustement ce que j'ay veu autre foiz près le Grant Bacsi qui est com
  li Papes des Ydres.'

  "Encore y a une autre manière de gent; ce sont de celz qui s'appellent
  filsoufes;[14] et si il disent: 'S'il y a Diex n'en scavons nul, mes il
  est voirs qu'il est une certeinne courance des choses laquex court
  devers le bien.' Et fist Messires Marcs: 'Encore la créance des
  Bacsi qui dysent que n'y a ne Diex Eternel ne Juge des homes, ains il
  est une certeinne chose laquex s'apelle Kerma.'[15]

  "Une autre foiz avint que disoit un des filsoufes à Monseignour Marc:
  'Diex n'existe mie jeusqu'ores, ainçois il se fait desorendroit.' Et
  fist encore Messires Marcs: 'Veez-là, une autre foiz la créance des
  ydres, car dient que li seuz Diex est icil hons qui par force de ses
  vertuz et de son savoir tant pourchace que d'home il se face Diex
  presentement. Et li Tartar l'appelent Borcan. Tiex Diex Sagamoni
  Borcan estoit, dou quel parle li livres Maistre Rusticien.'[16]

  "Encore ont une autre manière de filsoufes, et dient-il: 'Il n'est mie
  ne Diex ne Kerma ne courance vers le bien, ne Providence, ne Créerres,
  ne Sauvours, ne sainteté ne pechiés ne conscience de pechié, ne proyère
  ne response à proyère, il n'est nulle riens fors que trop minime grain
  ou paillettes qui ont à nom atosmes, et de tiex grains devient chose
  qui vive, et chose qui vive devient une certeinne creature qui demoure
  au rivaige de la Mer: et ceste creature devient poissons, et poissons
  devient lezars, et lezars devient blayriaus, et blayriaus devient
  gat-maimons, et gat-maimons devient hons sauvaiges qui menjue char
  d'homes, et hons sauvaiges devient hons crestien.'

  "Et dist Messires Marc: 'Encore une foiz, biaus sires, li Bacsi de
  Tebet et de Kescemir et li prestre de Seilan, qui si dient que
  l'arme vivant doie trespasser par tous cez changes de vestemens; si com
  se treuve escript ou livre Maistre Rusticien que Sagamoni Borcan
  mourut iiij vint et iiij foiz et tousjourz resuscita, et à chascune foiz
  d'une diverse manière de beste, et à la derreniere foyz mourut hons et
  devint diex, selonc ce qu'il dient.'[17] Et fist encore Messires Marc:
  'A moy pert-il trop estrange chose se juesques à toutes les créances des
  ydolastres deust dechéoir ceste grantz et saige nation. Ainsi peuent
  jouer Misire li filsoufe atout lour propre perte, mes à l'ore quand tiex
  fantaisies se respanderont es joenes bacheliers et parmy la menue gent,
  celz averont pour toute Loy manducemus et bibamus, cras enim moriemur;
  et trop isnellement l'en raccomencera la descente de l'eschiele, et
  d'home crestien deviendra hons sauvaiges, et d'home sauvaige gat-
  maimons, et de gat-maimon blayriaus.' Et fist encores Messires Marc:
  'Maintes contrées et provinces et ysles et citéz je Marc Pol ay veues
  et de maintes genz de maintes manières ay les condicionz congneues, et
  je croy bien que il est plus assez dedens l'univers que ce que li nostre
  prestre n'y songent. Et puet bien estre, biaus sires, que li mondes n'a
  estés creés à tous poinz com nous creiens, ains d'une sorte encore plus
  merveillouse. Mes cil n'amenuise nullement nostre pensée de Diex et de
  sa majesté, ains la fait greingnour. Et contrée n'ay veue ou Dame Diex
  ne manifeste apertement les granz euvres de sa tout-poissante saigesse;
  gent n'ay congneue esquiex ne se fait sentir li fardels de pechié, et la
  besoingne de Phisicien des maladies de l'arme tiex com est nostre
  Seignours Ihesus Crist, Beni soyt son Non. Pensez doncques à cel qu'a
  dit uns de ses Apostres: Nolite esse prudentes apud vosmet ipsos; et
  uns autres: Quoniam multi pseudo-prophetae exierint; et uns autres:
  Quod benient in nobissimis diebus illusores ... dicentes, Ubi est
  promissio? et encores aus parolles que dist li Signours meismes: Vide
  ergo ne lumen quod in te est tenebrae sint.

    Commant Messires Marcs se partist de l'ysle de Bretaingne et de la
    proyère que fist.

  "Et pourquoy vous en feroie-je lonc conte? Si print nef Messires Marcs
  et se partist en nageant vers la terre ferme. Or Messires Marc Pol
  moult ama cel roiaume de Bretaingne la grant pour son viex renon et
  s'ancienne franchise, et pour sa saige et bonne Royne (que Diex gart),
  et pour les mainz homes de vaillance et bons chaceours et les maintes
  bonnes et honnestes dames qui y estoient. Et sachiés tout voirement que
  en estant delez le bort la nef, et en esgardant aus roches blanches que
  l'en par dariere-li lessoit, Messires Marc prieoit Diex, et disoit-il:
  'Ha Sires Diex ay merci de cestuy vieix et noble royaume; fay-en
  pardurable forteresse de liberté et de joustice, et garde-le de tout
  meschief de dedens et de dehors; donne à sa gent droit esprit pour ne
  pas Diex guerroyer de ses dons, ne de richesce ne de savoir; et
  conforte-les fermement en ta foy'...."

A loud Amen seemed to peal from without, and the awakened reader started to his feet. And lo!
it was the thunder of the winter-storm crashing among the many-tinted crags of Monte Pellegrino,--with
the wind raging as it knows how to rage here in sight of the Isles of Aeolus, and the rain
dashing on the glass as ruthlessly as it well could have done, if, instead of Aeolic Isles
and many-tinted crags, the window had fronted a dearer shore beneath a northern sky, and looked
across the grey Firth to the rain-blurred outline of the Lomond Hills.

But I end, saying to Messer Marco's prayer, Amen.

PALERMO, 31st December, 1874.

[1] It would be ingratitude if this Preface contained no acknowledgment of
    the medals awarded to the writer, mainly for this work, by the Royal
    Geographical Society, and by the Geographical Society of Italy, the
    former under the Presidence of Sir Henry Rawlinson, the latter under
    that of the Commendatore C. Negri. Strongly as I feel the too generous
    appreciation of these labours implied in such awards, I confess to
    have been yet more deeply touched and gratified by practical evidence
    of the approval of the two distinguished Travellers mentioned above;
    as shown by Baron von Richthofen in his spontaneous proposal to
    publish a German version of the book under his own immediate
    supervision (a project in abeyance, owing to circumstances beyond his
    or my control); by Mr. Ney Elias in the fact of his having carried
    these ponderous volumes with him on his solitary journey across the
    Mongolian wilds!

[2] I am grateful to Mr. de Khanikoff for his especial recognition of
    these in a kindly review of the first edition in the Academy.

[3] Especially from Lieutenant Garnier's book, mentioned further on; the
    only existing source of illustration for many chapters of Polo.

[4] [Merged into the notes of the present edition.--H. C.]

[5] See page xxix.

[6] Writing in Italy, perhaps I ought to write, according to too prevalent
    modern Italian custom, Polo Marco. I have already seen, and in the
    work of a writer of reputation, the Alexandrian geographer styled
    Tolomeo Claudio! and if this preposterous fashion should continue to
    spread, we shall in time have Tasso Torquato, Jonson Ben, Africa
    explored by Park Mungo, Asia conquered by Lane Tamer, Copperfield
    David by Dickens Charles, Homer Englished by Pope Alexander, and
    the Roman history done into French from the original of Live Tite!

[7] Introduction p. 24, and passim in the notes.

[8] Ibid., p. 112.

[9] See Introduction, pp. 51, 57.

[10] See Title of present volumes.

[11] Which quite agrees with the story of the document quoted at p. 77 of
    Introduction.

[12] Vol. i. p. 64, and p. 67.

[13] I.e. 1306; see Introduction, pp. 68-69.

[14] The form which Marco gives to this word was probably a reminiscence
    of the Oriental corruption failsúf. It recalls to my mind a Hindu
    who was very fond of the word, and especially of applying it to
    certain of his fellow-servants. But as he used it, bara failsúf,--
    "great philosopher"--meant exactly the same as the modern slang
    "Artful Dodger"!

[15] See for the explanation of Karma, "the power that controls the
    universe," in the doctrine of atheistic Buddhism, Hardy's Eastern
    Monachism, p. 5.

[16] Vol. ii. p. 316 (see also i. 348).

[17] Vol. ii. pp. 318-319.

ORIGINAL PREFACE.

The amount of appropriate material, and of acquaintance with the mediaeval geography of some
parts of Asia, which was acquired during the compilation of a work of kindred character for
the Hakluyt Society,[1] could hardly fail to suggest as a fresh labour in the same field the
preparation of a new English edition of Marco Polo. Indeed one kindly critic (in the Examiner)
laid it upon the writer as a duty to undertake that task.

Though at least one respectable English edition has appeared since Marsden's,[2] the latter
has continued to be the standard edition, and maintains not only its reputation but its market
value. It is indeed the work of a sagacious, learned, and right-minded man, which can never
be spoken of otherwise than with respect. But since Marsden published his quarto (1818) vast
stores of new knowledge have become available in elucidation both of the contents of Marco
Polo's book and of its literary history. The works of writers such as Klaproth, Abel Rémusat,
D'Avezac, Reinaud, Quatremère, Julien, I. J. Schmidt, Gildemeister, Ritter, Hammer-Purgstall,
Erdmann, D'Ohsson, Defrémery, Elliot, Erskine, and many more, which throw light directly or
incidentally on Marco Polo, have, for the most part, appeared since then. Nor, as regards the
literary history of the book, were any just views possible at a time when what may be called
the Fontal MSS. (in French) were unpublished and unexamined.

Besides the works which have thus occasionally or incidentally thrown light upon the Traveller's
book, various editions of the book itself have since Marsden's time been published in foreign
countries, accompanied by comments of more or less value. All have contributed something to
the illustration of the book or its history; the last and most learned of the editors, M. Pauthier,
has so contributed in large measure. I had occasion some years ago[3] to speak freely my opinion
of the merits and demerits of M. Pauthier's work; and to the latter at least I have no desire
to recur here.

Another of his critics, a much more accomplished as well as more favourable one,[4] seems to
intimate the opinion that there would scarcely be room in future for new commentaries. Something
of the kind was said of Marsden's at the time of its publication. I imagine, however, that
whilst our libraries endure the Iliad will continue to find new translators, and Marco Polo--though
one hopes not so plentifully--new editors.

The justification of the book's existence must however be looked for, and it is hoped may be
found, in the book itself, and not in the Preface. The work claims to be judged as a whole,
but it may be allowable, in these days of scanty leisure, to indicate below a few instances
of what is believed to be new matter in an edition of Marco Polo; by which however it is by
no means intended that all such matter is claimed by the editor as his own.[5]

From the commencement of the work it was felt that the task was one which no man, though he
were far better equipped and much more conveniently situated than the present writer, could
satisfactorily accomplish from his own resources, and help was sought on special points wherever
it seemed likely to be found. In scarcely any quarter was the application made in vain. Some
who have aided most materially are indeed very old and valued friends; but to many others who
have done the same the applicant was unknown; and some of these again, with whom the editor
began correspondence on this subject as a stranger, he is happy to think that he may now call
friends.

To none am I more indebted than to the Comm. GUGLIELMO BERCHET, of Venice, for his ample, accurate,
and generous assistance in furnishing me with Venetian documents, and in many other ways. Especial
thanks are also due to Dr. WILLIAM LOCKHART, who has supplied the materials for some of the
most valuable illustrations; to Lieutenant FRANCIS GARNIER, of the French Navy. the gallant
and accomplished leader (after the death of Captain Doudart de la Grée) of the memorable expedition
up the Mekong to Yun-nan; to the Rev. Dr. CALDWELL, of the S.P.G. Mission in Tinnevelly, for
copious and valuable notes on Southern India; to my friends Colonel ROBERT MACLAGAN, R.E.,
Sir ARTHUR PHAYRE, and Colonel HENRY MAN, for very valuable notes and other aid; to Professor
A. SCHIEFNER, of St. Petersburg, for his courteous communication of very interesting illustrations
not otherwise accessible; to Major-General ALEXANDER CUNNINGHAM, of my own corps, for several
valuable letters; to my friends Dr. THOMAS OLDHAM, Director of the Geological Survey of India,
Mr. DANIEL HANBURY, F.R.S., Mr. EDWARD THOMAS, Mr. JAMES FERGUSSON, F.R.S., Sir BARTLE FRERE,
and Dr. HUGH CLEGHORN, for constant interest in the work and readiness to assist its progress;
to Mr. A. WYLIE, the learned Agent of the B. and F. Bible Society at Shang-hai, for valuable
help; to the Hon. G. P. MARSH, U.S. Minister at the Court of Italy, for untiring kindness in
the communication of his ample stores of knowledge, and of books. I have also to express my
obligations to Comm. NICOLÒ BAROZZI, Director of the City Museum at Venice, and to Professor
A. S. MINOTTO, of the same city; to Professor ARMINIUS VÁMBÉRY, the eminent traveller; to Professor
FLÜCKIGER of Bern; to the Rev. H. A. JAESCHKE, of the Moravian Mission in British Tibet; to
Colonel LEWIS PELLY, British Resident in the Persian Gulf; to Pandit MANPHUL, C.S.I. (for a
most interesting communication on Badakhshan); to my brother officer, Major T. G. MONTGOMERIE,
R.E., of the Indian Trigonometrical Survey; to Commendatore NEGRI the indefatigable President
of the Italian Geographical Society; to Dr. ZOTENBERG, of the Great Paris Library, and to M.
CH. MAUNOIR, Secretary-General of the Société de Géographie; to Professor HENRY GIGLIOI, at
Florence; to my old friend Major-General ALBERT FYTCHE, Chief Commissioner of British Burma;
to DR. ROST and DR. FORBES-WATSON, of the India Office Library and Museum; to Mr. R. H. MAJOR,
and Mr. R. K. DOUGLAS, of the British Museum; to Mr. N. B. DENNYS, of Hong-kong; and to Mr.
C. GARDNER, of the Consular Establishment in China. There are not a few others to whom my thanks
are equally due; but it is feared that the number of names already mentioned may seem ridiculous,
compared with the result, to those who do not appreciate from how many quarters the facts needful
for a work which in its course intersects so many fields required to be collected, one by one.
I must not, however, omit acknowledgments to the present Earl of DERBY for his courteous permission,
when at the head of the Foreign Office, to inspect Mr. Abbott's valuable unpublished Report
upon some of the Interior Provinces of Persia; and to Mr. T. T. COOPER, one of the most adventurous
travellers of modern times, for leave to quote some passages from his unpublished diary.

PALERMO, 31st December, 1870.

           [Original Dedication.]

                     TO
              HER ROYAL HIGHNESS,
                 MARGHERITA,
           Princess of Piedmont,
THIS ENDEAVOUR TO ILLUSTRATE THE LIFE AND WORK
            OF A RENOWNED ITALIAN
                     IS
  BY HER ROYAL HIGHNESS'S GRACIOUS PERMISSION
                  Dedicated
           WITH THE DEEPEST RESPECT
                     BY

                  H. YULE.

[1] Cathay and The Way Thither, being a Collection of Minor Medieval
    Notices of China. London, 1866. The necessities of the case have
    required the repetition in the present work of the substance of some
    notes already printed (but hardly published) in the other.

[2] Viz. Mr. Hugh Murray's. I mean no disrespect to Mr. T. Wright's
    edition, but it is, and professes to be, scarcely other than
    a reproduction of Marsden's, with abridgment of his notes.

[3] In the Quarterly Review for July, 1868.

[4] M. Nicolas Khanikoff.

[5] In the Preliminary Notices will be found new matter on the Personal
    and Family History of the Traveller, illustrated by Documents; and a
    more elaborate attempt than I have seen elsewhere to classify and
    account for the different texts of the work, and to trace their mutual
    relation.

    As regards geographical elucidations, I may point to the explanation
    of the name Gheluchelan (i. p. 58), to the discussion of the route
    from Kerman to Hormuz, and the identification of the sites of Old
    Hormuz, of Cobinan and Dogana, the establishment of the position
    and continued existence of Keshm, the note on Pein and Charchan,
    on Gog and Magog, on the geography of the route from Sindafu to
    Carajan, on Anin and Coloman, on Mutafili, Cail, and Ely.

    As regards historical illustrations, I would cite the notes regarding
    the Queens Bolgana and Cocachin, on the Karaunahs, etc., on the
    title of King of Bengal applied to the K. of Burma, and those
    bearing upon the Malay and Abyssinian chronologies.

    In the interpretation of outlandish phrases, I may refer to the notes
    on Ondanique, Nono, Barguerlac, Argon, Sensin, Keshican, Toscaol,
    Bularguchi, Gat-paul, etc.

    Among miscellaneous elucidations, to the disquisition on the Arbre
    Sol or Sec in vol. i., and to that on Mediaeval Military Engines in
    vol. ii.

    In a variety of cases it has been necessary to refer to Eastern
    languages for pertinent elucidations or etymologies. The editor would,
    however, be sorry to fall under the ban of the mediaeval adage:

      "Vir qui docet quod non sapit
      Definitur Bestia!"

    and may as well reprint here what was written in the Preface to
    Cathay:

    I am painfully sensible that in regard to many subjects dealt with in
    the following pages, nothing can make up for the want of genuine
    Oriental learning. A fair familiarity with Hindustani for many years,
    and some reminiscences of elementary Persian, have been useful in
    their degree; but it is probable that they may sometimes also have led
    me astray, as such slender lights are apt to do.

TO HENRY YULE.

  Until you raised dead monarchs from the mould
    And built again the domes of Xanadu,
    I lay in evil case, and never knew
  The glamour of that ancient story told
  By good Ser Marco in his prison-hold.
    But now I sit upon a throne and view
    The Orient at my feet, and take of you
  And Marco tribute from the realms of old.

  If I am joyous, deem me not o'er bold;
    If I am grateful, deem me not untrue;
  For you have given me beauties to behold,
    Delight to win, and fancies to pursue,
  Fairer than all the jewelry and gold
    Of Kublaï on his throne in Cambalu.

E. C. BABER.

20th July, 1884.

MEMOIR OF SIR HENRY YULE.

Henry Yule was the youngest son of Major William Yule, by his first wife, Elizabeth Paterson,
and was born at Inveresk, in Midlothian, on 1st May, 1820. He was named after an aunt who,
like Miss Ferrier's immortal heroine, owned a man's name.

On his father's side he came of a hardy agricultural stock,[1] improved by a graft from that
highly-cultured tree, Rose of Kilravock.[2] Through his mother, a somewhat prosaic person herself,
he inherited strains from Huguenot and Highland ancestry. There were recognisable traces of
all these elements in Henry Yule, and as was well said by one of his oldest friends: "He was
one of those curious racial compounds one finds on the east side of Scotland, in whom the hard
Teutonic grit is sweetened by the artistic spirit of the more genial Celt."[3] His father,
an officer of the Bengal army (born 1764, died 1839), was a man of cultivated tastes and enlightened
mind, a good Persian and Arabic scholar, and possessed of much miscellaneous Oriental learning.
During the latter years of his career in India, he served successively as Assistant Resident
at the (then independent) courts of Lucknow[4] and Delhi. In the latter office his chief was
the noble Ouchterlony. William Yule, together with his younger brother Udny,[5] returned home
in 1806. "A recollection of their voyage was that they hailed an outward bound ship, somewhere
off the Cape, through the trumpet: 'What news?' Answer: 'The King's mad, and Humfrey's beat
Mendoza' (two celebrated prize-fighters and often matched). 'Nothing more?' 'Yes, Bonaparty's
made his Mother King of Holland!'

"Before his retirement, William Yule was offered the Lieut.-Governorship of St. Helena. Two
of the detailed privileges of the office were residence at Longwood (afterwards the house of
Napoleon), and the use of a certain number of the Company's slaves. Major Yule, who was a strong
supporter of the anti-slavery cause till its triumph in 1834, often recalled both of these
offers with amusement."[6]

William Yule was a man of generous chivalrous nature, who took large views of life, apt to
be unfairly stigmatised as Radical in the narrow Tory reaction that prevailed in Scotland during
the early years of the 19th century.[7] Devoid of literary ambition, he wrote much for his
private pleasure, and his knowledge and library (rich in Persian and Arabic MSS.) were always
placed freely at the service of his friends and correspondents, some of whom, such as Major
C. Stewart and Mr. William Erskine, were more given to publication than himself. He never travelled
without a little 8vo MS. of Hafiz, which often lay under his pillow. Major Yule's only printed
work was a lithographed edition of the Apothegms of 'Ali, the son of Abu Talib, in the Arabic,
with an old Persian version and an English translation interpolated by himself. "This was privately
issued in 1832, when the Duchesse d'Angoulême was living at Edinburgh, and the little work
was inscribed to her, with whom an accident of neighbourhood and her kindness to the Major's
youngest child had brought him into relations of goodwill."[8]

Henry Yule's childhood was mainly spent at Inveresk. He used to say that his earliest recollection
was sitting with the little cousin, who long after became his wife, on the doorstep of her
father's house in George Street, Edinburgh (now the Northern Club), listening to the performance
of a passing piper. There was another episode which he recalled with humorous satisfaction.
Fired by his father's tales of the jungle, Yule (then about six years old) proceeded to improvise
an elephant pit in the back garden, only too successfully, for soon, with mingled terror and
delight, he saw his uncle John[9] fall headlong into the snare. He lost his mother before he
was eight, and almost his only remembrance of her was the circumstance of her having given
him a little lantern to light him home on winter nights from his first school. On Sundays it
was the Major's custom to lend his children, as a picture-book, a folio Arabic translation
of the Four Gospels, printed at Rome in 1591, which contained excellent illustrations from
Italian originals.[10] Of the pictures in this volume Yule seems never to have tired. The last
page bore a MS. note in Latin to the effect that the volume had been read in the Chaldaean
Desert by Georgius Strachanus, Milnensis, Scotus, who long remained unidentified, not to say
mythical, in Yule's mind. But George Strachan never passed from his memory, and having ultimately
run him to earth, Yule, sixty years later, published the results in an interesting article.[11]

Two or three years after his wife's death, Major Yule removed to Edinburgh, and established
himself in Regent's Terrace, on the face of the Calton Hill.[12] This continued to be Yule's
home until his father's death, shortly before he went to India. "Here he learned to love the
wide scenes of sea and land spread out around that hill--a love he never lost, at home or far
away. And long years after, with beautiful Sicilian hills before him and a lovely sea, he writes
words of fond recollection of the bleak Fife hills, and the grey Firth of Forth."[13]

Yule now followed his elder brother, Robert, to the famous High School, and in the summer holidays
the two made expeditions to the West Highlands, the Lakes of Cumberland, and elsewhere. Major
Yule chose his boys to have every reasonable indulgence and advantage, and when the British
Association, in 1834, held its first Edinburgh meeting, Henry received a member's ticket. So,
too, when the passing of the Reform Bill was celebrated in the same year by a great banquet,
at which Lord Grey and other prominent politicians were present, Henry was sent to the dinner,
probably the youngest guest there.[14]

At this time the intention was that Henry should go to Cambridge (where his name was, indeed,
entered), and after taking his degree study for the Bar. With this view he was, in 1833, sent
to Waith, near Ripon, to be coached by the Rev. H. P. Hamilton, author of a well-known treatise,
On Conic Sections, and afterwards Dean of Salisbury. At his tutor's hospitable rectory Yule
met many notabilities of the day. One of them was Professor Sedgwick.

There was rumoured at this time the discovery of the first known (?) fossil monkey, but its
tail was missing. "Depend upon it, Daniel O'Conell's got hold of it!" said 'Adam' briskly.[15]
Yule was very happy with Mr. Hamilton and his kind wife, but on his tutor's removal to Cambridge
other arrangements became necessary, and in 1835 he was transferred to the care of the Rev.
James Challis, rector of Papworth St. Everard, a place which "had little to recommend it except
a dulness which made reading almost a necessity."[16] Mr. Challis had at this time two other
resident pupils, who both, in most diverse ways, attained distinction in the Church. These
were John Mason Neale, the future eminent ecclesiologist and founder of the devoted Anglican
Sisterhood of St. Margaret, and Harvey Goodwin, long afterwards the studious and large-minded
Bishop of Carlisle. With the latter, Yule remained on terms of cordial friendship to the end
of his life. Looking back through more than fifty years to these boyish days, Bishop Goodwin
wrote that Yule then "showed much more liking for Greek plays and for German than for mathematics,
though he had considerable geometrical ingenuity."[17] On one occasion, having solved a problem
that puzzled Goodwin, Yule thus discriminated the attainments of the three pupils: "The difference
between you and me is this: You like it and can't do it; I don't like it and can do it. Neale
neither likes it nor can do it." Not bad criticism for a boy of fifteen.[18]

On Mr. Challis being appointed Plumerian Professor at Cambridge, in the spring of 1836, Yule
had to leave him, owing to want of room at the Observatory, and he became for a time, a most
dreary time, he said, a student at University College, London.

By this time Yule had made up his mind that not London and the Law, but India and the Army
should be his choice, and accordingly in Feb. 1837 he joined the East India Company's Military
College at Addiscombe. From Addiscombe he passed out, in December 1838, at the head of the
cadets of his term (taking the prize sword[19]), and having been duly appointed to the Bengal
Engineers, proceeded early in 1839 to the Headquarters of the Royal Engineers at Chatham, where,
according to custom, he was enrolled as a "local and temporary Ensign." For such was then the
invidious designation at Chatham of the young Engineer officers of the Indian army, who ranked
as full lieutenants in their own Service, from the time of leaving Addiscombe.[20] Yule once
audaciously tackled the formidable Pasley on this very grievance. The venerable Director, after
a minute's pondering, replied: "Well, I don't remember what the reason was, but I have no doubt
(staccato) it ... was ... a very ... good reason."[21]

"When Yule appeared among us at Chatham in 1839," said his friend Collinson, "he at once took
a prominent place in our little Society by his slightly advanced age [he was then 18-1/2],
but more by his strong character.... His earlier education ... gave him a better classical
knowledge than most of us possessed; then he had the reserve and self-possession characteristic
of his race; but though he took small part in the games and other recreations of our time,
his knowledge, his native humour, and his good comradeship, and especially his strong sense
of right and wrong, made him both admired and respected.... Yule was not a scientific engineer,
though he had a good general knowledge of the different branches of his profession; his natural
capacity lay rather in varied knowledge, combined with a strong understanding and an excellent
memory, and also a peculiar power as a draughtsman, which proved of great value in after life....
Those were nearly the last days of the old régime, of the orthodox double sap and cylindrical
pontoons, when Pasley's genius had been leading to new ideas, and when Lintorn Simmons' power,
G. Leach's energy, W. Jervois' skill, and R. Tylden's talent were developing under the wise
example of Henry Harness."[22]

In the Royal Engineer mess of those days (the present anteroom), the portrait of Henry Yule
now faces that of his first chief, Sir Henry Harness. General Collinson said that the pictures
appeared to eye each other as if the subjects were continuing one of those friendly disputes
in which they so often engaged.[23]

It was in this room that Yule, Becher, Collinson, and other young R.E.'s, profiting by the
temporary absence of the austere Colonel Pasley, acted some plays, including Pizarro. Yule
bore the humble part of one of the Peruvian Mob in this performance, of which he has left a
droll account.[24]

On the completion of his year at Chatham, Yule prepared to sail for India, but first went to
take leave of his relative, General White. An accident prolonged his stay, and before he left
he had proposed to and been refused by his cousin Annie. This occurrence, his first check,
seems to have cast rather a gloom over his start for India. He went by the then newly-opened
Overland Route, visiting Portugal, stopping at Gibraltar to see his cousin, Major (afterwards
General) Patrick Yule, R.E.[25] He was under orders "to stop at Aden (then recently acquired),
to report on the water supply, and to deliver a set of meteorological and magnetic instruments
for starting an observatory there. The overland journey then really meant so; tramping across
the desert to Suez with camels and Arabs, a proceeding not conducive to the preservation of
delicate instruments; and on arriving at Aden he found that the intended observer was dead,
the observatory not commenced, and the instruments all broken. There was thus nothing left
for him but to go on at once" to Calcutta,[26] where he arrived at the end of 1840.

His first service lay in the then wild Khasia Hills, whither he was detached for the purpose
of devising means for the transport of the local coal to the plains. In spite of the depressing
character of the climate (Cherrapunjee boasts the highest rainfall on record), Yule thoroughly
enjoyed himself, and always looked back with special pleasure on the time he spent here. He
was unsuccessful in the object of his mission, the obstacles to cheap transport offered by
the dense forests and mighty precipices proving insurmountable, but he gathered a wealth of
interesting observations on the country and people, a very primitive Mongolian race, which
he subsequently embodied in two excellent and most interesting papers (the first he ever published).[27]

In the following year, 1842, Yule was transferred to the irrigation canals of the north-west
with head-quarters at Kurnaul. Here he had for chief Captain (afterwards General Sir William)
Baker, who became his dearest and most steadfast friend. Early in 1843 Yule had his first experience
of field service. The death without heir of the Khytul Rajah, followed by the refusal of his
family to surrender the place to the native troops sent to receive it, obliged Government to
send a larger force against it, and the canal officers were ordered to join this. Yule was
detailed to serve under Captain Robert Napier (afterwards F.-M. Lord Napier of Magdala). Their
immediate duty was to mark out the route for a night march of the troops, barring access to
all side roads, and neither officer having then had any experience of war, they performed the
duty "with all the elaborate care of novices." Suddenly there was an alarm, a light detected,
and a night attack awaited, when the danger resolved itself into Clerk Sahib's khansamah with
welcome hot coffee![28] Their hopes were disappointed, there was no fighting, and the Fort
of Khytul was found deserted by the enemy. It "was a strange scene of confusion--all the paraphernalia
and accumulation of odds and ends of a wealthy native family lying about and inviting loot.
I remember one beautiful crutch-stick of ebony with two rams' heads in jade. I took it and
sent it in to the political authority, intending to buy it when sold. There was a sale, but
my stick never appeared. Somebody had a more developed taste in jade.... Amid the general rummage
that was going on, an officer of British Infantry had been put over a part of the palace supposed
to contain treasure, and they--officers and all--were helping themselves. Henry Lawrence was
one of the politicals under George Clerk. When the news of this affair came to him I was present.
It was in a white marble loggia in the palace, where was a white marble chair or throne on
a basement. Lawrence was sitting on this throne in great excitement. He wore an Afghan choga,
a sort of dressing-gown garment, and this, and his thin locks, and thin beard were streaming
in the wind. He always dwells in my memory as a sort of pythoness on her tripod under the afflatus."[29]

During his Indian service, Yule had renewed and continued by letters his suit to Miss White,
and persistency prevailing at last, he soon after the conclusion of the Khytul affair applied
for leave to go home to be married. He sailed from Bombay in May, 1843, and in September of
the same year was married, at Bath, to the gifted and large-hearted woman who, to the end,
remained the strongest and happiest influence in his life.[30]

Yule sailed for India with his wife in November 1843. The next two years were employed chiefly
in irrigation work, and do not call for special note. They were very happy years, except in
the one circumstance that the climate having seriously affected his wife's health, and she
having been brought to death's door, partly by illness, but still more by the drastic medical
treatment of those days, she was imperatively ordered back to England by the doctors, who forbade
her return to India.

Having seen her on board ship, Yule returned to duty on the canals. The close of that year,
December, 1845, brought some variety to his work, as the outbreak of the first Sikh War called
nearly all the canal officers into the field. "They went up to the front by long marches, passing
through no stations, and quite unable to obtain any news of what had occurred, though on the
21st December the guns of Ferozshah were distinctly heard in their camp at Pehoa, at a distance
of 115 miles south-east from the field, and some days later they came successively on the fields
of Moodkee and of Ferozshah itself, with all the recent traces of battle. When the party of
irrigation officers reached head-quarters, the arrangements for attacking the Sikh army in
its entrenchments at Sobraon were beginning (though suspended till weeks later for the arrival
of the tardy siege guns), and the opposed forces were lying in sight of each other."[31]

Yule's share in this campaign was limited to the sufficiently arduous task of bridging the
Sutlej for the advance of the British army. It is characteristic of the man that for this reason
he always abstained from wearing his medal for the Sutlej campaign.

His elder brother, Robert Yule, then in the 16th Lancers, took part in that magnificent charge
of his regiment at the battle of Aliwal (Jan. 28, 1846) which the Great Duke is said to have
pronounced unsurpassed in history. From particulars gleaned from his brother and others present
in the action, Henry Yule prepared a spirited sketch of the episode, which was afterwards published
as a coloured lithograph by M'Lean (Haymarket).

At the close of the war, Yule succeeded his friend Strachey as Executive Engineer of the northern
division of the Ganges Canal, with his head-quarters at Roorkee, "the division which, being
nearest the hills and crossed by intermittent torrents of great breadth and great volume when
in flood, includes the most important and interesting engineering works."[32]

At Roorkee were the extensive engineering workshops connected with the canal. Yule soon became
so accustomed to the din as to be undisturbed by the noise, but the unpunctuality and carelessness
of the native workmen sorely tried his patience, of which Nature had endowed him with but a
small reserve. Vexed with himself for letting temper so often get the better of him, Yule's
conscientious mind devised a characteristic remedy. Each time that he lost his temper, he transferred
a fine of two rupees (then about five shillings) from his right to his left pocket. When about
to leave Roorkee, he devoted this accumulation of self-imposed fines to the erection of a sun-dial,
to teach the natives the value of time. The late Sir James Caird, who told this legend of Roorkee
as he heard it there in 1880, used to add, with a humorous twinkle of his kindly eyes, "It
was a very handsome dial."[33]

From September, 1845, to March, 1847, Yule was much occupied intermittently, in addition to
his professional work, by service on a Committee appointed by Government "to investigate the
causes of the unhealthiness which has existed at Kurnal, and other portions of the country
along the line of the Delhi Canal," and further, to report "whether an injurious effect on
the health of the people of the Doab is, or is not, likely to be produced by the contemplated
Ganges Canal."

"A very elaborate investigation was made by the Committee, directed principally to ascertaining
what relation subsisted between certain physical conditions of the different districts, and
the liability of their inhabitants to miasmatic fevers." The principal conclusion of the Committee
was, "that in the extensive epidemic of 1843, when Kurnaul suffered so seriously ... the greater
part of the evils observed had not been the necessary and unavoidable results of canal irrigation,
but were due to interference with the natural drainage of the country, to the saturation of
stiff and retentive soils, and to natural disadvantages of site, enhanced by excess of moisture.
As regarded the Ganges Canal, they were of opinion that, with due attention to drainage, improvement
rather than injury to the general health might be expected to follow the introduction of canal
irrigation."[34] In an unpublished note written about 1889, Yule records his ultimate opinion
as follows: "At this day, and after the large experience afforded by the Ganges Canal, I feel
sure that a verdict so favourable to the sanitary results of canal irrigation would not be
given." Still the fact remains that the Ganges Canal has been the source of unspeakable blessings
to an immense population.

The Second Sikh War saw Yule again with the army in the field, and on 13th Jan. 1849, he was
present at the dismal 'Victory' of Chillianwallah, of which his most vivid recollection seemed
to be the sudden apparition of Henry Lawrence, fresh from London, but still clad in the legendary
Afghan cloak.

On the conclusion of the Punjab campaign, Yule, whose health had suffered, took furlough and
went home to his wife. For the next three years they resided chiefly in Scotland, though paying
occasional visits to the Continent, and about 1850 Yule bought a house in Edinburgh. There
he wrote "The African Squadron vindicated" (a pamphlet which was afterwards re-published in
French), translated Schiller's Kampf mit dem Drachen into English verse, delivered Lectures
on Fortification at the, now long defunct, Scottish Naval and Military Academy, wrote on Tibet
for his friend Blackwood's Magazine, attended the 1850 Edinburgh Meeting of the British Association,
wrote his excellent lines, "On the Loss of the Birkenhead," and commenced his first serious
study of Marco Polo (by whose wondrous tale, however, he had already been captivated as a boy
in his father's library--in Marsden's edition probably). But the most noteworthy literary result
of these happy years was that really fascinating volume, entitled Fortification for Officers
of the Army and Students of Military History, a work that has remained unique of its kind.
This was published by Blackwood in 1851, and seven years later received the honour of (unauthorised)
translation into French. Yule also occupied himself a good deal at this time with the practice
of photography, a pursuit to which he never after reverted.

In the spring of 1852, Yule made an interesting little semi-professional tour in company with
a brother officer, his accomplished friend, Major R. B. Smith. Beginning with Kelso, "the only
one of the Teviotdale Abbeys which I had not as yet seen," they made their way leisurely through
the north of England, examining with impartial care abbeys and cathedrals, factories, brick-yards,
foundries, timber-yards, docks, and railway works. On this occasion Yule, contrary to his custom,
kept a journal, and a few excerpts may be given here, as affording some notion of his casual
talk to those who did not know him.

At Berwick-on-Tweed he notes the old ramparts of the town: "These, erected in Elizabeth's time,
are interesting as being, I believe, the only existing sample in England of the bastioned system
of the 16th century.... The outline of the works seems perfect enough, though both earth and
stone work are in great disrepair. The bastions are large with obtuse angles, square orillons,
and double flanks originally casemated, and most of them crowned with cavaliers." On the way
to Durham, "much amused by the discussions of two passengers, one a smooth-spoken, semi-clerical
looking person; the other a brusque well-to-do attorney with a Northumbrian burr. Subject,
among others, Protection. The Attorney all for 'cheap bread'-- 'You wouldn't rob the poor man
of his loaf,' and so forth. 'You must go with the stgheam, sir, you must go with the stgheam.'
'I never did, Mr Thompson, and I never will,' said the other in an oily manner, singularly
inconsistent with the sentiment." At Durham they dined with a dignitary of the Church, and
Yule was roasted by being placed with his back to an enormous fire. "Coals are cheap at Durham,"
he notes feelingly, adding, "The party we found as heavy as any Edinburgh one. Smith, indeed,
evidently has had little experience of really stupid Edinburgh parties, for he had never met
with anything approaching to this before." (Happy Smith!) But thanks to the kindness and hospitality
of the astronomer, Mr. Chevalier, and his gifted daughter, they had a delightful visit to beautiful
Durham, and came away full of admiration for the (then newly established) University, and its
grand locale. They went on to stay with an uncle by marriage of Yule's, in Yorkshire. At dinner
he was asked by his host to explain Foucault's pendulum experiment. "I endeavoured to explain
it somewhat, I hope, to the satisfaction of his doubts, but not at all to that of Mr. G. M.,
who most resolutely declined to take in any elucidation, coming at last to the conclusion that
he entirely differed with me as to what North meant, and that it was useless to argue until
we could agree about that!" They went next to Leeds, to visit Kirkstall Abbey, "a mediaeval
fossil, curiously embedded among the squalid brickwork and chimney stalks of a manufacturing
suburb. Having established ourselves at the hotel, we went to deliver a letter to Mr. Hope,
the official assignee, a very handsome, aristocratic-looking gentleman, who seemed as much
out of place at Leeds as the Abbey." At Leeds they visited the flax mills of Messrs. Marshall,
"a firm noted for the conscientious care they take of their workpeople.... We mounted on the
roof of the building, which is covered with grass, and formerly was actually grazed by a few
sheep, until the repeated inconvenience of their tumbling through the glass domes put a stop
to this." They next visited some tile and brickworks on land belonging to a friend. "The owner
of the tile works, a well-to-do burgher, and the apparent model of a West Riding Radical, received
us in rather a dubious way: 'There are a many people has come and brought introductions, and
looked at all my works, and then gone and set up for themselves close by. Now des you mean
to say that you be really come all the way from Bengul?' 'Yes, indeed we have, and we are going
all the way back again, though we didn't exactly come from there to look at your brickworks.'
'Then you're not in the brick-making line, are you?' 'Why we've had a good deal to do with
making bricks, and may have again; but we'll engage that if we set up for ourselves, it shall
be ten thousand miles from you.' This seemed in some degree to set his mind at rest...."

"A dismal day, with occasional showers, prevented our seeing Sheffield to advantage. On the
whole, however, it is more cheerful and has more of a country-town look than Leeds--a place
utterly without beauty of aspect. At Leeds you have vast barrack-like factories, with their
usual suburbs of squalid rows of brick cottages, and everywhere the tall spiracles of the steam,
which seems the pervading power of the place. Everything there is machinery--the machine is
the intelligent agent, it would seem, the man its slave, standing by to tend it and pick up
a broken thread now and then. At Sheffield ... you might go through most of the streets without
knowing anything of the kind was going on. And steam here, instead of being a ruler, is a drudge,
turning a grindstone or rolling out a bar of steel, but all the accuracy and skill of hand
is the Man's. And consequently there was, we thought, a healthier aspect about the men engaged.
None of the Rodgers remain who founded the firm in my father's time. I saw some pairs of his
scissors in the show-room still kept under the name of Persian scissors."[35]

From Sheffield Yule and his friend proceeded to Boston, "where there is the most exquisite
church tower I have ever seen," and thence to Lincoln, Peterborough, and Ely, ending their
tour at Cambridge, where Yule spent a few delightful days.

In the autumn the great Duke of Wellington died, and Yule witnessed the historic pageant of
his funeral. His furlough was now nearly expired, and early in December he again embarked for
India, leaving his wife and only child, of a few weeks old, behind him. Some verses dated "Christmas
Day near the Equator," show how much he felt the separation.

Shortly after his return to Bengal, Yule received orders to proceed to Aracan, and to examine
and report upon the passes between Aracan and Burma, as also to improve communications and
select suitable sites for fortified posts to hold the same. These orders came to Yule quite
unexpectedly late one Saturday evening, but he completed all preparations and started at daybreak
on the following Monday, 24th Jan. 1853.

From Calcutta to Khyook Phyoo, Yule proceeded by steamer, and thence up the river in the Tickler
gunboat to Krenggyuen. "Our course lay through a wilderness of wooded islands (50 to 200 feet
high) and bays, sailing when we could, anchoring when neither wind nor tide served ... slow
progress up the river. More and more like the creeks and lagoons of the Niger or a Guiana river
rather than anything I looked for in India. The densest tree jungle covers the shore down into
the water. For miles no sign of human habitation, but now and then at rare intervals one sees
a patch of hillside rudely cleared, with the bare stems of the burnt trees still standing....
Sometimes, too, a dark tunnel-like creek runs back beneath the thick vault of jungle, and from
it silently steals out a slim canoe, manned by two or three wild-looking Mugs or Kyens (people
of the Hills), driving it rapidly along with their short paddles held vertically, exactly like
those of the Red men on the American rivers."

At the military post of Bokhyong, near Krenggyuen, he notes (5th Feb.) that "Captain Munro,
the adjutant, can scarcely believe that I was present at the Duke of Wellington's funeral,
of which he read but a few days ago in the newspapers, and here am I, one of the spectators,
a guest in this wild spot among the mountains--2-1/2 months since I left England."

Yule's journal of his arduous wanderings in these border wilds is full of interest, but want
of space forbids further quotation. From a note on the fly-leaf it appears that from the time
of quitting the gun-boat at Krenggyuen to his arrival at Toungoop he covered about 240 miles
on foot, and that under immense difficulties, even as to food. He commemorated his tribulations
in some cheery humorous verse, but ultimately fell seriously ill of the local fever, aided
doubtless by previous exposure and privation. His servants successively fell ill, some died
and others had to be sent back, food supplies failed, and the route through those dense forests
was uncertain; yet under all difficulties he seems never to have grumbled or lost heart. And
when things were nearly at the worst, Yule restored the spirits of his local escort by improvising
a wappenshaw, with a Sheffield gardener's knife, which he happened to have with him, for prize!
When at last Yule emerged from the wilds and on 25th March marched into Prome, he was taken
for his own ghost! "Found Fraser (of the Engineers) in a rambling phoongyee house, just under
the great gilt pagoda. I went up to him announcing myself, and his astonishment was so great
that he would scarcely shake hands!" It was on this occasion at Prome that Yule first met his
future chief Captain Phayre--"a very young-looking man--very cordial," a description no less
applicable to General Sir Arthur Phayre at the age of seventy!

After some further wanderings, Yule embarked at Sandong, and returned by water, touching at
Kyook Phyoo and Akyab, to Calcutta, which he reached on 1st May--his birthday.

The next four months were spent in hard work at Calcutta. In August, Yule received orders to
proceed to Singapore, and embarked on the 29th. His duty was to report on the defences of the
Straits Settlements, with a view to their improvement. Yule's recommendations were sanctioned
by Government, but his journal bears witness to the prevalence then, as since, of the penny-wise-pound-foolish
system in our administration. On all sides he was met by difficulties in obtaining sites for
batteries, etc., for which heavy compensation was demanded, when by the exercise of reasonable
foresight, the same might have been secured earlier at a nominal price.

Yule's journal contains a very bright and pleasing picture of Singapore, where he found that
the majority of the European population "were evidently, from their tongues, from benorth the
Tweed, a circumstance which seems to be true of four-fifths of the Singaporeans. Indeed, if
I taught geography, I should be inclined to class Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dundee, and Singapore
together as the four chief towns of Scotland."

Work on the defences kept Yule in Singapore and its neighbourhood until the end of November,
when he embarked for Bengal. On his return to Calcutta, Yule was appointed Deputy Consulting
Engineer for Railways at Head-quarters. In this post he had for chief his old friend Baker,
who had in 1851 been appointed by the Governor-General, Lord Dalhousie, Consulting Engineer
for Railways to Government. The office owed its existence to the recently initiated great experiment
of railway construction under Government guarantee.

The subject was new to Yule, "and therefore called for hard and anxious labour. He, however,
turned his strong sense and unbiased view to the general question of railway communication
in India, with the result that he became a vigorous supporter of the idea of narrow gauge and
cheap lines in the parts of that country outside of the main trunk lines of traffic."[36]

The influence of Yule, and that of his intimate friends and ultimate successors in office,
Colonels R. Strachey and Dickens, led to the adoption of the narrow (metre) gauge over a great
part of India. Of this matter more will be said further on; it is sufficient at this stage
to note that it was occupying Yule's thoughts, and that he had already taken up the position
in this question that he thereafter maintained through life. The office of Consulting Engineer
to Government for Railways ultimately developed into the great Department of Public Works.

As related by Yule, whilst Baker "held this appointment, Lord Dalhousie was in the habit of
making use of his advice in a great variety of matters connected with Public Works projects
and questions, but which had nothing to do with guaranteed railways, there being at that time
no officer attached to the Government of India, whose proper duty it was to deal with such
questions. In August, 1854, the Government of India sent home to the Court of Directors a despatch
and a series of minutes by the Governor-General and his Council, in which the constitution
of the Public Works Department as a separate branch of administration, both in the local governments
and the government of India itself, was urged on a detailed plan."

In this communication Lord Dalhousie stated his desire to appoint Major Baker to the projected
office of Secretary for the Department of Public Works. In the spring of 1855 these recommendations
were carried out by the creation of the Department, with Baker as Secretary and Yule as Under
Secretary for Public Works.

Meanwhile Yule's services were called to a very different field, but without his vacating his
new appointment, which he was allowed to retain. Not long after the conclusion of the second
Burmese War, the King of Burma sent a friendly mission to the Governor-General, and in 1855
a return Embassy was despatched to the Court of Ava, under Colonel Arthur Phayre, with Henry
Yule as Secretary, an appointment the latter owed as much to Lord Dalhousie's personal wish
as to Phayre's good-will. The result of this employment was Yule's first geographical book,
a large volume entitled Mission to the Court of Ava in 1855, originally printed in India, but
subsequently re-issued in an embellished form at home (see over leaf). To the end of his life,
Yule looked back to this "social progress up the Irawady, with its many quaint and pleasant
memories, as to a bright and joyous holiday."[37] It was a delight to him to work under Phayre,
whose noble and lovable character he had already learned to appreciate two years before in
Pegu. Then, too, Yule has spoken of the intense relief it was to escape from the monotonous
scenery and depressing conditions of official life in Bengal (Resort to Simla was the exception,
not the rule, in these days!) to the cheerfulness and unconstraint of Burma, with its fine
landscapes and merry-hearted population. "It was such a relief to find natives who would laugh
at a joke," he once remarked in the writer's presence to the lamented E. C. Baber, who replied
that he had experienced exactly the same sense of relief in passing from India to China.

Yule's work on Burma was largely illustrated by his own sketches. One of these represents the
King's reception of the Embassy, and another, the King on his throne. The originals were executed
by Yule's ready pencil, surreptitiously within his cocked hat, during the audience.

From the latter sketch Yule had a small oil-painting executed under his direction by a German
artist, then resident in Calcutta, which he gave to Lord Dalhousie.[38]

The Government of India marked their approval of the Embassy by an unusual concession. Each
of the members of the mission received a souvenir of the expedition. To Yule was given a very
beautiful and elaborately chased small bowl, of nearly pure gold, bearing the signs of the
Zodiac in relief.[39]

On his return to Calcutta, Yule threw himself heart and soul into the work of his new appointment
in the Public Works Department. The nature of his work, the novelty and variety of the projects
and problems with which this new branch of the service had to deal, brought Yule into constant,
and eventually very intimate association with Lord Dalhousie, whom he accompanied on some of
his tours of inspection. The two men thoroughly appreciated each other, and, from first to
last, Yule experienced the greatest kindness from Lord Dalhousie. In this intimacy, no doubt
the fact of being what French soldiers call pays added something to the warmth of their mutual
regard: their forefathers came from the same airt, and neither was unmindful of the circumstance.
It is much to be regretted that Yule preserved no sketch of Lord Dalhousie, nor written record
of his intercourse with him, but the following lines show some part of what he thought:

"At this time [1849] there appears upon the scene that vigorous and masterful spirit, whose
arrival to take up the government of India had been greeted by events so inauspicious. No doubt
from the beginning the Governor-General was desirous to let it be understood that although
new to India he was, and meant to be, master;... Lord Dalhousie was by no means averse to frank
dissent, provided in the manner it was never forgotten that he was Governor-General. Like his
great predecessor Lord Wellesley, he was jealous of all familiarity and resented it.... The
general sentiment of those who worked under that [Greek: ánax andron] was one of strong and
admiring affection ... and we doubt if a Governor-General ever embarked on the Hoogly amid
deeper feeling than attended him who, shattered by sorrow and physical suffering, but erect
and undaunted, quitted Calcutta on the 6th March 1856."[40]

His successor was Lord Canning, whose confidence in Yule and personal regard for him became
as marked as his predecessor's.

In the autumn of 1856, Yule took leave and came home. Much of his time while in England was
occupied with making arrangements for the production of an improved edition of his book on
Burma, which so far had been a mere government report. These were completed to his satisfaction,
and on the eve of returning to India, he wrote to his publishers[41] that the correction of
the proof sheets and general supervision of the publication had been undertaken by his friend
the Rev. W. D. Maclagan, formerly an officer of the Madras army (and now Archbishop of York).

Whilst in England, Yule had renewed his intimacy with his old friend Colonel Robert Napier,
then also on furlough, a visitor whose kindly sympathetic presence always brought special pleasure
also to Yule's wife and child. One result of this intercourse was that the friends decided
to return together to India. Accordingly they sailed from Marseilles towards the end of April,
and at Aden were met by the astounding news of the outbreak of the Mutiny.

On his arrival in Calcutta Yule, who retained his appointment of Under Secretary to Government,
found his work indefinitely increased. Every available officer was called into the field, and
Yule's principal centre of activity was shifted to the great fortress of Allahabad, forming
the principal base of operations against the rebels. Not only had he to strengthen or create
defences at Allahabad and elsewhere, but on Yule devolved the principal burden of improvising
accommodation for the European troops then pouring into India, which ultimately meant providing
for an army of 100,000 men. His task was made the more difficult by the long-standing chronic
friction, then and long after, existing between the officers of the Queen's and the Company's
services. But in a far more important matter he was always fortunate. As he subsequently recorded
in a Note for Government: "Through all consciousness of mistakes and shortcomings, I have felt
that I had the confidence of those whom I served, a feeling which has lightened many a weight."

It was at Allahabad that Yule, in the intervals of more serious work, put the last touches
to his Burma book. The preface of the English edition is dated, "Fortress of Allahabad, Oct.
3, 1857," and contains a passage instinct with the emotions of the time. After recalling the
"joyous holiday" on the Irawady, he goes on: "But for ourselves, standing here on the margin
of these rivers, which a few weeks ago were red with the blood of our murdered brothers and
sisters, and straining the ear to catch the echo of our avenging artillery, it is difficult
to turn the mind to what seem dreams of past days of peace and security; and memory itself
grows dim in the attempt to repass the gulf which the last few months has interposed between
the present and the time to which this narrative refers."[42]

When he wrote these lines, the first relief had just taken place, and the second defence of
Lucknow was beginning. The end of the month saw Sir Colin Campbell's advance to the second--the
real--relief of Lucknow. Of Sir Colin, Yule wrote and spoke with warm regard: "Sir Colin was
delightful, and when in a good humour and at his best, always reminded me very much, both in
manner and talk, of the General (i.e. General White, his wife's father). The voice was just
the same and the quiet gentle manner, with its underlying keen dry humour. But then if you
did happen to offend Sir Colin, it was like treading on crackers, which was not our General's way."

When Lucknow had been relieved, besieged, reduced, and finally remodelled by the grand Roads
and Demolitions Scheme of his friend Napier, the latter came down to Allahabad, and he and
Yule sought diversion in playing quoits and skittles, the only occasion on which either of
them is known to have evinced any liking for games.

Before this time Yule had succeeded his friend Baker as de facto Secretary to Government for
Public Works, and on Baker's retirement in 1858, Yule was formally appointed his successor.[43]
Baker and Yule had, throughout their association, worked in perfect unison, and the very differences
in their characters enhanced the value of their co-operation; the special qualities of each
friend mutually strengthened and completed each other. Yule's was by far the more original
and creative mind, Baker's the more precise and, at least in a professional sense, the more
highly-trained organ. In chivalrous sense of honour, devotion to duty, and natural generosity,
the men stood equal; but while Yule was by nature impatient and irritable, and liable, until
long past middle age, to occasional sudden bursts of uncontrollable anger, generally followed
by periods of black depression and almost absolute silence,[44] Baker was the very reverse.
Partly by natural temperament, but also certainly by severe self-discipline, his manner was
invincibly placid and his temper imperturbable.[45] Yet none was more tenacious in maintaining
whatever he judged right.

Baker, whilst large-minded in great matters, was extremely conventional in small ones, and
Yule must sometimes have tried his feelings in this respect. The particulars of one such tragic
occurrence have survived. Yule, who was colour-blind,[46] and in early life whimsically obstinate
in maintaining his own view of colours, had selected some cloth for trousers undeterred by
his tailor's timid remonstrance of "Not quite your usual taste, sir." The result was that the
Under-Secretary to Government startled official Calcutta by appearing in brilliant claret-coloured
raiment. Baker remonstrated: "Claret-colour! Nonsense, my trousers are silver grey," said Yule,
and entirely declined to be convinced. "I think I did convince him at last," said Baker with
some pride, when long after telling the story to the present writer. "And then he gave them
up?" "Oh, no," said Sir William ruefully, "he wore those claret-coloured trousers to the very
end." That episode probably belonged to the Dalhousie period.

When Yule resumed work in the Secretariat at Calcutta at the close of the Mutiny, the inevitable
arrears of work were enormous. This may be the proper place to notice more fully his action
with respect to the choice of gauge for Indian railways already adverted to in brief. As we
have seen, his own convictions led to the adoption of the metre gauge over a great part of
India. This policy had great disadvantages not at first foreseen, and has since been greatly
modified. In justice to Yule, however, it should be remembered that the conditions and requirements
of India have largely altered, alike through the extraordinary growth of the Indian export,
especially the grain, trade, and the development of new necessities for Imperial defence. These
new features, however, did but accentuate defects inherent in the system, but which only prolonged
practical experience made fully apparent.

At the outset the supporters of the narrow gauge seemed to have the stronger position, as they
were able to show that the cost was much less, the rails employed being only about 2/3rds the
weight of those required by the broad gauge, and many other subsidiary expenses also proportionally
less. On the other hand, as time passed and practical experience was gained, its opponents
were able to make an even stronger case against the narrow gauge. The initial expenses were
undoubtedly less, but the durability was also less. Thus much of the original saving was lost
in the greater cost of maintenance, whilst the small carrying capacity of the rolling stock
and loss of time and labour in shifting goods at every break of gauge, were further serious
causes of waste, which the internal commercial development of India daily made more apparent.
Strategic needs also were clamant against the dangers of the narrow gauge in any general scheme
of Indian defence. Yule's connection with the Public Works Department had long ceased ere the
question of the gauges reached its most acute stage, but his interest and indirect participation
in the conflict survived. In this matter a certain parental tenderness for a scheme which he
had helped to originate, combined with his warm friendship for some of the principal supporters
of the narrow gauge, seem to have influenced his views more than he himself was aware. Certainly
his judgment in this matter was not impartial, although, as always in his case, it was absolutely
sincere and not consciously biased.

In reference to Yule's services in the period following the Mutiny, Lord Canning's subsequent
Minute of 1862 may here be fitly quoted. In this the Governor-General writes: "I have long
ago recorded my opinion of the value of his services in 1858 and 1859, when with a crippled
and overtaxed staff of Engineer officers, many of them young and inexperienced, the G.-G. had
to provide rapidly for the accommodation of a vast English army, often in districts hitherto
little known, and in which the authority of the Government was barely established, and always
under circumstances of difficulty and urgency. I desire to repeat that the Queen's army in
India was then greatly indebted to Lieut.-Colonel Yule's judgment, earnestness, and ability;
and this to an extent very imperfectly understood by many of the officers who held commands
in that army.

"Of the manner in which the more usual duties of his office have been discharged it is unnecessary
for me to speak. It is, I believe, known and appreciated as well by the Home Government as
by the Governor-General in Council."

In the spring of 1859 Yule felt the urgent need of a rest, and took the, at that time, most
unusual step of coming home on three months' leave, which as the voyage then occupied a month
each way, left him only one month at home. He was accompanied by his elder brother George,
who had not been out of India for thirty years. The visit home of the two brothers was as bright
and pleasant as it was brief, but does not call for further notice.

In 1860, Yule's health having again suffered, he took short leave to Java. His journal of this
tour is very interesting, but space does not admit of quotation here. He embodied some of the
results of his observations in a lecture he delivered on his return to Calcutta.

During these latter years of his service in India, Yule owed much happiness to the appreciative
friendship of Lord Canning and the ready sympathy of Lady Canning. If he shared their tours
in an official capacity, the intercourse was much more than official. The noble character of
Lady Canning won from Yule such wholehearted chivalrous devotion as, probably, he felt for
no other friend save, perhaps in after days, Sir Bartle Frere. And when her health failed,
it was to Yule's special care that Lord Canning entrusted his wife during a tour in the Hills.
Lady Canning was known to be very homesick, and one day as the party came in sight of some
ilexes (the evergreen oak), Yule sought to cheer her by calling out pleasantly: "Look, Lady
Canning! There are oaks!" "No, no, Yule, not oaks," cried Sir C. B. "They are (solemnly) IBEXES."
"No, not Ibexes, Sir C., you mean SILEXES," cried Capt. ----, the A.D.C.; Lady Canning and
Yule the while almost choking with laughter.

On another and later occasion, when the Governor-General's camp was peculiarly dull and stagnant,
every one yawning and grumbling, Yule effected a temporary diversion by pretending to tap the
telegraph wires, and circulating through camp, what purported to be, the usual telegraphic
abstract of news brought to Bombay by the latest English mail. The news was of the most astounding
character, with just enough air of probability, in minor details, to pass muster with a dull
reader. The effect was all he could wish--or rather more--and there was a general flutter in
the camp. Of course the Governor-General and one or two others were in the secret, and mightily
relished the diversion. But this pleasant and cheering intercourse was drawing to its mournful
close. On her way back from Darjeeling, in November, 1861, Lady Canning (not then in Yule's
care) was unavoidably exposed to the malaria of a specially unhealthy season. A few days' illness
followed, and on 18th November, 1861, she passed calmly to

  "That remaining rest where night and tears are o'er."[47]

It was to Yule that Lord Canning turned in the first anguish of his loss, and on this faithful
friend devolved the sad privilege of preparing her last resting-place. This may be told in
the touching words of Lord Canning's letter to his only sister, written on the day of Lady
Canning's burial, in the private garden at Barrackpoor[48]:--

"The funeral is over, and my own darling lies buried in a spot which I am sure she would have
chosen of all others.... From the grave can be seen the embanked walk leading from the house
to the river's edge, which she made as a landing-place three years ago, and from within 3 or
4 paces of the grave there is a glimpse of the terrace-garden and its balustrades, which she
made near the house, and of the part of the grounds with which she most occupied herself....
I left Calcutta yesterday ... and on arriving here, went to look at the precise spot chosen
for the grave. I could see by the clear full moon ... that it was exactly right. Yule was there
superintending the workmen, and before daylight this morning a solid masonry vault had been
completely finished.

"Bowie [Military Secretary] and Yule have done all this for me. It has all been settled since
my poor darling died. She liked Yule. They used to discuss together her projects of improvement
for this place, architecture, gardening, the Cawnpore monument, etc., and they generally agreed.
He knew her tastes well...."

The coffin, brought on a gun-carriage from Calcutta, "was carried by twelve soldiers of the
6th Regiment (Queen's), the A.D.C.'s bearing the pall. There were no hired men or ordinary
funeral attendants of any kind at any part of the ceremony, and no lookers-on.... Yule was
the only person not of the household staff. Had others who had asked" to attend "been allowed
to do so, the numbers would have been far too large.

"On coming near the end of the terrace walk I saw that the turf between the walk and the grave,
and for several yards all round the grave, was strewed thick with palm branches and bright
fresh-gathered flowers--quite a thick carpet. It was a little matter, but so exactly what she
would have thought of."[49]

And, therefore, Yule thought of this for her! He also recorded the scene two days later in
some graceful and touching lines, privately printed, from which the following may be quoted:

  "When night lowered black, and the circling shroud
  Of storm rolled near, and stout hearts learned dismay;
  Not Hers! To her tried Lord a Light and Stay
  Even in the Earthquake and the palpable cloud
  Of those dark months; and when a fickle crowd
  Panted for blood and pelted wrath and scorn
  On him she loved, her courage never stooped:
  But when the clouds were driven, and the day
  Poured Hope and glorious Sunshine, she who had borne,
  The night with such strong Heart, withered and drooped,
  Our queenly lily, and smiling passed away.
  Now! let no fouling touch profane her clay,
  Nor odious pomps and funeral tinsels mar
  Our grief. But from our England's cannon car
  Let England's soldiers bear her to the tomb
  Prepared by loving hands. Before her bier
  Scatter victorious palms; let Rose's bloom
  Carpet its passage...."

Yule's deep sympathy in this time of sorrow strengthened the friendship Lord Canning had long
felt for him, and when the time approached for the Governor-General to vacate his high office,
he invited Yule, who was very weary of India, to accompany him home, where his influence would
secure Yule congenial employment. Yule's weariness of India at this time was extreme. Moreover,
after serving under such leaders as Lord Dalhousie and Lord Canning, and winning their full
confidence and friendship, it was almost repugnant to him to begin afresh with new men and
probably new measures, with which he might not be in accord. Indeed, some little clouds were
already visible on the horizon. In these circumstances, it is not surprising that Yule, under
an impulse of lassitude and impatience, when accepting Lord Canning's offer, also 'burnt his
boats' by sending in his resignation of the service. This decision Yule took against the earnest
advice of his anxious and devoted wife, and for a time the results justified all her misgivings.
She knew well, from past experience, how soon Yule wearied in the absence of compulsory employment.
And in the event of the life in England not suiting him, for even Lord Canning's good-will
might not secure perfectly congenial employment for his talents, she knew well that his health
and spirits would be seriously affected. She, therefore, with affectionate solicitude, urged
that he should adopt the course previously followed by his friend Baker, that is, come home
on furlough, and only send in his resignation after he saw clearly what his prospects of home
employment were, and what he himself wished in the matter.

Lord Canning and Yule left Calcutta late in March, 1862; at Malta they parted never to meet
again in this world. Lord Canning proceeded to England, and Yule joined his wife and child
in Rome. Only a few weeks later, at Florence, came as a thunderclap the announcement of Lord
Canning's unexpected death in London, on 17th June. Well does the present writer remember the
day that fatal news came, and Yule's deep anguish, not assuredly for the loss of his prospects,
but for the loss of a most noble and magnanimous friend, a statesman whose true greatness was,
both then and since, most imperfectly realised by the country for which he had worn himself
out.[50] Shortly after Yule went to England,[51] where he was cordially received by Lord Canning's
representatives, who gave him a touching remembrance of his lost friend, in the shape of the
silver travelling candlesticks, which had habitually stood on Lord Canning's writing-table.[52]
But his offer to write Lord Canning's Life had no result, as the relatives, following the then
recent example of the Hastings family, in the case of another great Governor-General, refused
to revive discussion by the publication of any Memoir.

Nor did Yule find any suitable opening for employment in England, so after two or three months
spent in visiting old friends, he rejoined his family in the Black Forest, where he sought
occupation in renewing his knowledge of German. But it must be confessed that his mood both
then and for long after was neither happy nor wholesome. The winter of 1862 was spent somewhat
listlessly, partly in Germany and partly at the Hôtel des Bergues, Geneva, where his old acquaintance
Colonel Tronchin was hospitably ready to open all doors. The picturesque figure of John Ruskin
also flits across the scene at this time. But Yule was unoccupied and restless, and could neither
enjoy Mr. Ruskin's criticism of his sketches nor the kindly hospitality of his Genevan hosts.
Early in 1863 he made another fruitless visit to London, where he remained four or five months,
but found no opening. Though unproductive of work, this year brought Yule official recognition
of his services in the shape of the C.B., for which Lord Canning had long before recommended
him.[53]

On rejoining his wife and child at Mornex in Savoy, Yule found the health of the former seriously
impaired. During his absence, the kind and able English Doctor at Geneva had felt obliged to
inform Mrs. Yule that she was suffering from disease of the heart, and that her life might
end suddenly at any moment. Unwilling to add to Yule's anxieties, she made all necessary arrangements,
but did not communicate this intelligence until he had done all he wished and returned, when
she broke it to him very gently. Up to this year Mrs. Yule, though not strong and often ailing,
had not allowed herself to be considered an invalid, but from this date doctor's orders left
her no choice in the matter.[54]

About this time, Yule took in hand the first of his studies of mediaeval travellers. His translation
of the Travels of Friar Jordanus was probably commenced earlier; it was completed during the
leisurely journey by carriage between Chambéry and Turin, and the Dedication to Sir Bartle
Frere written during a brief halt at Genoa, from which place it is dated. Travelling slowly
and pleasantly by vetturino along the Riviera di Levante, the family came to Spezzia, then
little more than a quiet village. A chance encounter with agreeable residents disposed Yule
favourably towards the place, and a few days later he opened negotiations for land to build
a house! Most fortunately for himself and all concerned these fell through, and the family
continued their journey to Tuscany, and settled for the winter in a long rambling house, with
pleasant garden, at Pisa, where Yule was able to continue with advantage his researches into
mediaeval travel in the East. He paid frequent visits to Florence, where he had many pleasant
acquaintances, not least among them Charles Lever ("Harry Lorrequer"), with whom acquaintance
ripened into warm and enduring friendship. At Florence he also made the acquaintance of the
celebrated Marchese Gino Capponi, and of many other Italian men of letters. To this winter
of 1863-64 belongs also the commencement of a lasting friendship with the illustrious Italian
historian, Villari, at that time holding an appointment at Pisa. Another agreeable acquaintance,
though less intimate, was formed with John Ball, the well-known President of the Alpine Club,
then resident at Pisa, and with many others, among whom the name of a very cultivated German
scholar, H. Meyer, specially recurs to memory.

In the spring of 1864, Yule took a spacious and delightful old villa, situated in the highest
part of the Bagni di Lucca,[55] and commanding lovely views over the surrounding chestnut-clad
hills and winding river.

Here he wrote much of what ultimately took form in Cathay, and the Way Thither. It was this
summer, too, that Yule commenced his investigations among the Venetian archives, and also visited
the province of Friuli in pursuit of materials for the history of one of his old travellers,
the Beato Odorico. At Verona--then still Austrian--he had the amusing experience of being arrested
for sketching too near the fortifications. However, his captors had all the usual Austrian
bonhomie and courtesy, and Yule experienced no real inconvenience. He was much more disturbed
when, a day or two later, the old mother of one of his Venetian acquaintances insisted on embracing
him on account of his supposed likeness to Garibaldi!

As winter approached, a warmer climate became necessary for Mrs. Yule, and the family proceeded
to Sicily, landing at Messina in October, 1864. From this point, Yule made a very interesting
excursion to the then little known group of the Lipari Islands, in the company of that eminent
geologist, the late Robert Mallet, F.R.S., a most agreeable companion.

On Martinmas Day, the Yules reached the beautiful capital of Sicily, Palermo, which, though
they knew it not, was to be their home--a very happy one--for nearly eleven years.

During the ensuing winter and spring, Yule continued the preparation of Cathay, but his appetite
for work not being satisfied by this, he, when in London in 1865, volunteered to make an Index
to the third decade of the Journal of the Royal Geographical Society, in exchange for a set
of such volumes as he did not possess. That was long before any Index Society existed; but
Yule had special and very strong views of his own as to what an Index should be, and he spared
no labour to realise his ideal.[56] This proved a heavier task than he had anticipated, and
he got very weary before the Index was completed.

In the spring of 1866, Cathay and the Way Thither appeared, and at once took the high place
which it has ever since retained. In the autumn of the same year Yule's attention was momentarily
turned in a very different direction by a local insurrection, followed by severe reprisals,
and the bombardment of Palermo by the Italian Fleet. His sick wife was for some time under
rifle as well as shell fire; but cheerfully remarking that "every bullet has its billet," she
remained perfectly serene and undisturbed. It was the year of the last war with Austria, and
also of the suppression of the Monastic Orders in Sicily; two events which probably helped
to produce the outbreak, of which Yule contributed an account to The Times, and subsequently
a more detailed one to the Quarterly Review.[57]

Yule had no more predilection for the Monastic Orders than most of his countrymen, but his
sense of justice was shocked by the cruel incidence of the measure in many cases, and also
by the harshness with which both it and the punishment of suspected insurgents was carried
out. Cholera was prevalent in Italy that year, but Sicily, which had maintained stringent quarantine,
entirely escaped until large bodies of troops were landed to quell the insurrection, when a
devastating epidemic immediately ensued, and re-appeared in 1867. In after years, when serving
on the Army Sanitary Committee at the India Office, Yule more than once quoted this experience
as indicating that quarantine restrictions may, in some cases, have more value than British
medical authority is usually willing to admit.

In 1867, on his return from London, Yule commenced systematic work on his long projected new
edition of the Travels of Marco Polo. It was apparently in this year that the scheme first
took definite form, but it had long been latent in his mind. The Public Libraries of Palermo
afforded him much good material, whilst occasional visits to the Libraries of Venice, Florence,
Paris, and London, opened other sources. But his most important channel of supply came from
his very extensive private correspondence, extending to nearly all parts of Europe and many
centres in Asia. His work brought him many new and valued friends, indeed too many to mention,
but amongst whom, as belonging specially to this period, three honoured names must be recalled
here: Commendatore (afterwards Baron) CRISTOFORO NEGRI, the large-hearted Founder and First
President of the Geographical Society of Italy, from whom Yule received his first public recognition
as a geographer, Commendatore GUGLIELMO BERCHET (affectionately nicknamed il Bello e Buono),
ever generous in learned help, who became a most dear and honoured friend, and the Hon. GEORGE
P. MARSH, U.S. Envoy to the Court of Italy, a man, both as scholar and friend, unequalled in
his nation, perhaps almost unique anywhere.

Those who only knew Yule in later years, may like some account of his daily life at this time.
It was his custom to rise fairly early; in summer he sometimes went to bathe in the sea,[58]
or for a walk before breakfast; more usually he would write until breakfast, which he preferred
to have alone. After breakfast he looked through his notebooks, and before ten o'clock was
usually walking rapidly to the library where his work lay. He would work there until two or
three o'clock, when he returned home, read the Times, answered letters, received or paid visits,
and then resumed work on his book, which he often continued long after the rest of the household
were sleeping. Of course his family saw but little of him under these circumstances, but when
he had got a chapter of Marco into shape, or struck out some new discovery of interest, he
would carry it to his wife to read. She always took great interest in his work, and he had
great faith in her literary instinct as a sound as well as sympathetic critic.

The first fruits of Yule's Polo studies took the form of a review of Pauthier's edition of
Marco Polo, contributed to the Quarterly Review in 1868.

In 1870 the great work itself appeared, and received prompt generous recognition by the grant
of the very beautiful gold medal of the Geographical Society of Italy,[59] followed in 1872
by the award of the Founder's Medal of the Royal Geographical Society, while the Geographical
and Asiatic Societies of Paris, the Geographical Societies of Italy and Berlin, the Academy
of Bologna, and other learned bodies, enrolled him as an Honorary Member.

Reverting to 1869, we may note that Yule, when passing through Paris early in the spring, became
acquainted, through his friend M. Charles Maunoir, with the admirable work of exploration lately
performed by Lieut. Francis Garnier of the French Navy. It was a time of much political excitement
in France, the eve of the famous Plébiscite, and the importance of Garnier's work was not then
recognised by his countrymen. Yule saw its value, and on arrival in London went straight to
Sir Roderick Murchison, laid the facts before him, and suggested that no other traveller of
the year had so good a claim to one of the two gold medals of the R.G.S. as this French naval
Lieutenant. Sir Roderick was propitious, and accordingly in May the Patron's medal was assigned
to Garnier, who was touchingly grateful to Yule; whilst the French Minister of Marine marked
his appreciation of Yule's good offices by presenting him with the magnificent volumes commemorating
the expedition.[60]

Yule was in Paris in 1871, immediately after the suppression of the Commune, and his letters
gave interesting accounts of the extraordinary state of affairs then prevailing. In August,
he served as President of the Geographical Section of the British Association at its Edinburgh
meeting.

On his return to Palermo, he devoted himself specially to the geography of the Oxus region,
and the result appeared next year in his introduction and notes to Wood's Journey. Soon after
his return to Palermo, he became greatly interested in the plans, about which he was consulted,
of an English church, the gift to the English community of two of its oldest members, Messrs
Ingham and Whitaker. Yule's share in the enterprise gradually expanded, until he became a sort
of volunteer clerk of the works, to the great benefit of his health, as this occupation during
the next three years, whilst adding to his interests, also kept him longer in the open air
than would otherwise have been the case. It was a real misfortune to Yule (and one of which
he was himself at times conscious) that he had no taste for any out-of-door pursuits, neither
for any form of natural science, nor for gardening, nor for any kind of sport nor games. Nor
did he willingly ride.[61] He was always restless away from his books. There can be no doubt
that want of sufficient air and exercise, reacting on an impaired liver, had much to do with
Yule's unsatisfactory state of health and frequent extreme depression. There was no lack of
agreeable and intelligent society at Palermo (society that the present writer recalls with
cordial regard), to which every winter brought pleasant temporary additions, both English and
foreign, the best of whom generally sought Yule's acquaintance. Old friends too were not wanting;
many found their way to Palermo, and when such came, he was willing to show them hospitality
and to take them excursions, and occasionally enjoyed these. But though the beautiful city
and surrounding country were full of charm and interest, Yule was too much pre-occupied by
his own special engrossing pursuits ever really to get the good of his surroundings, of which
indeed he often seemed only half conscious.

By this time Yule had obtained, without ever having sought it, a distinct and, in some respects,
quite unique position in geographical science. Although his Essay on the Geography of the Oxus
Region (1872) received comparatively little public attention at home, it had yet made its mark
once for all,[62] and from this time, if not earlier, Yule's high authority in all questions
of Central Asian geography was generally recognised. He had long ere this, almost unconsciously,
laid the broad foundations of that "Yule method," of which Baron von Richthofen has written
so eloquently, declaring that not only in his own land, "but also in the literatures of France,
Italy, Germany, and other countries, the powerful stimulating influence of the Yule method
is visible."[63] More than one writer has indeed boldly compared Central Asia before Yule to
Central Africa before Livingstone!

Yule had wrought from sheer love of the work and without expectation of public recognition,
and it was therefore a great surprise as well as gratification to him, to find that the demand
for his Marco Polo was such as to justify the appearance of a second edition only a few years
after the first. The preparation of this enlarged edition, with much other miscellaneous work
(see subjoined bibliography), and the superintendence of the building of the church already
named, kept him fully occupied for the next three years.

Amongst the parerga and miscellaneous occupations of Yule's leisure hours in the period 1869-74,
may be mentioned an interesting correspondence with Professor W. W. Skeat on the subject of
William of Palerne and Sicilian examples of the Werwolf; the skilful analysis and exposure
of Klaproth's false geography;[64] the purchase and despatch of Sicilian seeds and young trees
for use in the Punjab, at the request of the Indian Forestry Department; translations (prepared
for friends) of tracts on the cultivation of Sumach and the collection of Manna as practised
in Sicily; also a number of small services rendered to the South Kensington Museum, at the
request of the late Sir Henry Cole. These latter included obtaining Italian and Sicilian bibliographic
contributions to the Science and Art Department's Catalogue of Books on Art, selecting architectural
subjects to be photographed;[65] negotiating the purchase of the original drawings illustrative
of Padre B. Gravina's great work on the Cathedral of Monreale; and superintending the execution
of a copy in mosaic of the large mosaic picture (in the Norman Palatine Chapel, Palermo,) of
the Entry of our Lord into Jerusalem.

In the spring of 1875, just after the publication of the second edition of Marco Polo, Yule
had to mourn the loss of his noble wife. He was absent from Sicily at the time, but returned
a few hours after her death on 30th April. She had suffered for many years from a severe form
of heart disease, but her end was perfect peace. She was laid to rest, amid touching tokens
of both public and private sympathy, in the beautiful camposanto on Monte Pellegrino. What
her loss was to Yule only his oldest and closest friends were in a position to realise. Long
years of suffering had impaired neither the soundness of her judgment nor the sweetness, and
even gaiety, of her happy, unselfish disposition. And in spirit, as even in appearance, she
retained to the very last much of the radiance of her youth. Nor were her intellectual gifts
less remarkable. Few who had once conversed with her ever forgot her, and certainly no one
who had once known her intimately ever ceased to love her.[66]

Shortly after this calamity, Yule removed to London, and on the retirement of his old friend,
Sir William Baker, from the India Council early that autumn, Lord Salisbury at once selected
him for the vacant seat. Nothing would ever have made him a party-man, but he always followed
Lord Salisbury with conviction, and worked under him with steady confidence.

In 1877 Yule married, as his second wife, the daughter of an old friend,[67] a very amiable
woman twenty years his junior, who made him very happy until her untimely death in 1881. From
the time of his joining the India Council, his duties at the India Office of course occupied
a great part of his time, but he also continued to do an immense amount of miscellaneous literary
work, as may be seen by reference to the subjoined bibliography, (itself probably incomplete).
In Council he invariably "showed his strong determination to endeavour to deal with questions
on their own merits and not only by custom and precedent."[68] Amongst subjects in which he
took a strong line of his own in the discussions of the Council, may be specially instanced
his action in the matter of the cotton duties (in which he defended native Indian manufactures
as against hostile Manchester interests); the Vernacular Press Act, the necessity for which
he fully recognised; and the retention of Kandahar, for which he recorded his vote in a strong
minute. In all these three cases, which are typical of many others, his opinion was overruled,
but having been carefully and deliberately formed, it remained unaffected by defeat.

In all matters connected with Central Asian affairs, Yule's opinion always carried great weight;
some of his most competent colleagues indeed preferred his authority in this field to that
of even Sir Henry Rawlinson, possibly for the reason given by Sir M. Grant Duff, who has epigrammatically
described the latter as good in Council but dangerous in counsel.[69]

Yule's courageous independence and habit of looking at all public questions by the simple light
of what appeared to him right, yet without fads or doctrinairism, earned for him the respect
of the successive Secretaries of State under whom he served, and the warm regard and confidence
of his other colleagues. The value attached to his services in Council was sufficiently shown
by the fact that when the period of ten years (for which members are usually appointed), was
about to expire, Lord Hartington (now Duke of Devonshire), caused Yule's appointment to be
renewed for life, under a special Act of Parliament passed for this purpose in 1885.

His work as a member of the Army Sanitary Committee, brought him into communication with Miss
Florence Nightingale, a privilege which he greatly valued and enjoyed, though he used to say:
"She is worse than a Royal Commission to answer, and, in the most gracious charming manner
possible, immediately finds out all I don't know!" Indeed his devotion to the "Lady-in-Chief"
was scarcely less complete than Kinglake's.

In 1880, Yule was appointed to the Board of Visitors of the Government Indian Engineering College
at Cooper's Hill, a post which added to his sphere of interests without materially increasing
his work. In 1882, he was much gratified by being named an Honorary Fellow of the Society of
Antiquaries of Scotland, more especially as it was to fill one of the two vacancies created
by the deaths of Thomas Carlyle and Dean Stanley.

Yule had been President of the Hakluyt Society from 1877, and in 1885 was elected President
also of the Royal Asiatic Society. He would probably also have been President of the Royal
Geographical Society, but for an untoward incident. Mention has already been made of his constant
determination to judge all questions by the simple touchstone of what he believed to be right,
irrespective of personal considerations. It was in pursuance of these principles that, at the
cost of great pain to himself and some misrepresentation, he in 1878 sundered his long connection
with the Royal Geographical Society, by resigning his seat on their Council, solely in consequence
of their adoption of what he considered a wrong policy. This severance occurred just when it
was intended to propose him as President. Some years later, at the personal request of the
late Lord Aberdare, a President in all respects worthy of the best traditions of that great
Society, Yule consented to rejoin the Council, which he re-entered as a Vice-President.

In 1883, the University of Edinburgh celebrated its Tercentenary, when Yule was selected as
one of the recipients of the honorary degree of LL.D. His letters from Edinburgh, on this occasion,
give a very pleasant and amusing account of the festivity and of the celebrities he met. Nor
did he omit to chronicle the envious glances cast, as he alleged, by some British men of science
on the splendours of foreign Academic attire, on the yellow robes of the Sorbonne, and the
Palms of the Institute of France! Pasteur was, he wrote, the one most enthusiastically acclaimed
of all who received degrees.

I think it was about the same time that M. Renan was in England, and called upon Sir Henry
Maine, Yule, and others at the India Office. On meeting just after, the colleagues compared
notes as to their distinguished but unwieldy visitor. "It seems that le style n'est pas l'homme
même in this instance," quoth "Ancient Law" to "Marco Polo." And here it may be remarked that
Yule so completely identified himself with his favourite traveller that he frequently signed
contributions to the public press as MARCUS PAULUS VENETUS or M.P.V. His more intimate friends
also gave him the same sobriquet, and once, when calling on his old friend, Dr. John Brown
(the beloved chronicler of Rab and his Friends), he was introduced by Dr. John to some lion-hunting
American visitors as "our Marco Polo." The visitors evidently took the statement in a literal
sense, and scrutinised Yule closely.[70]

In 1886 Yule published his delightful Anglo-Indian Glossary, with the whimsical but felicitous
sub-title of Hobson-Jobson (the name given by the rank and file of the British Army in India
to the religious festival in celebration of Hassan and Husaïn).

This Glossary was an abiding interest to both Yule and the present writer. Contributions of
illustrative quotations came from most diverse and unexpected sources, and the arrival of each
new word or happy quotation was quite an event, and gave such pleasure to the recipients as
can only be fully understood by those who have shared in such pursuits. The volume was dedicated
in affecting terms to his elder brother, Sir George Yule, who, unhappily, did not survive to
see it completed.

In July 1885, the two brothers had taken the last of many happy journeys together, proceeding
to Cornwall and the Scilly Isles. A few months later, on 13th January 1886, the end came suddenly
to the elder, from the effects of an accident at his own door.[71]

It may be doubted if Yule ever really got over the shock of this loss, though he went on with
his work as usual, and served that year as a Royal Commissioner on the occasion of the Indian
and Colonial Exhibition of 1886.

From 1878, when an accidental chill laid the foundations of an exhausting, though happily quite
painless, malady, Yule's strength had gradually failed, although for several years longer his
general health and energies still appeared unimpaired to a casual observer. The condition of
public affairs also, in some degree, affected his health injuriously. The general trend of
political events from 1880 to 1886 caused him deep anxiety and distress, and his righteous
wrath at what he considered the betrayal of his country's honour in the cases of Frere, of
Gordon, and of Ireland, found strong, and, in a noble sense, passionate expression in both
prose and verse. He was never in any sense a party man, but he often called himself "one of
Mr. Gladstone's converts," i.e. one whom Gladstonian methods had compelled to break with liberal
tradition and prepossessions.

Nothing better expresses Yule's feeling in the period referred to than the following letter,
written in reference to the R. E. Gordon Memorial,[72] but of much wider application: "Will
you allow me an inch or two of space to say to my brother officers, 'Have nothing to do with
the proposed Gordon Memorial.'

"That glorious memory is in no danger of perishing and needs no memorial. Sackcloth and silence
are what it suggests to those who have guided the action of England; and Englishmen must bear
the responsibility for that action and share its shame. It is too early for atoning memorials;
nor is it possible for those who take part in them to dissociate themselves from a repulsive
hypocrisy.

"Let every one who would fain bestow something in honour of the great victim, do, in silence,
some act of help to our soldiers or their families, or to others who are poor and suffering.

"In later days our survivors or successors may look back with softened sorrow and pride to
the part which men of our corps have played in these passing events, and Charles Gordon far
in the front of all; and then they may set up our little tablets, or what not--not to preserve
the memory of our heroes, but to maintain the integrity of our own record of the illustrious dead."

Happily Yule lived to see the beginning of better times for his country. One of the first indications
of that national awakening was the right spirit in which the public, for the most part, received
Lord Wolseley's stirring appeal at the close of 1888, and Yule was so much struck by the parallelism
between Lord Wolseley's warning and some words of his own contained in the pseudo-Polo fragment
(see above, end of Preface), that he sent Lord Wolseley the very last copy of the 1875 edition
of Marco Polo, with a vigorous expression of his sentiments.

That was probably Yule's last utterance on a public question. The sands of life were now running
low, and in the spring of 1889, he felt it right to resign his seat on the India Council, to
which he had been appointed for life. On this occasion Lord Cross, then Secretary of State
for India, successfully urged his acceptance of the K.C.S.I., which Yule had refused several
years before.

In the House of Lords, Viscount Cross subsequently referred to his resignation in the following
terms. He said: "A vacancy on the Council had unfortunately occurred through the resignation
from ill-health of Sir Henry Yule, whose presence on the Council had been of enormous advantage
to the natives of the country. A man of more kindly disposition, thorough intelligence, high-minded,
upright, honourable character, he believed did not exist; and he would like to bear testimony
to the estimation in which he was held, and to the services which he had rendered in the office
he had so long filled."[73]

This year the Hakluyt Society published the concluding volume of Yule's last work of importance,
the Diary of Sir William Hedges. He had for several years been collecting materials for a full
memoir of his great predecessor in the domain of historical geography, the illustrious Rennell.[74]
This work was well advanced as to preliminaries, but was not sufficiently developed for early
publication at the time of Yule's death, and ere it could be completed its place had been taken
by a later enterprise.

During the summer of 1889, Yule occupied much of his leisure by collecting and revising for
re-issue many of his miscellaneous writings. Although not able to do much at a time, this desultory
work kept him occupied and interested, and gave him much pleasure during many months. It was,
however, never completed. Yule went to the seaside for a few weeks in the early summer, and
subsequently many pleasant days were spent by him among the Surrey hills, as the guest of his
old friends Sir Joseph and Lady Hooker. Of their constant and unwearied kindness, he always
spoke with most affectionate gratitude. That autumn he took a great dislike to the English
climate; he hankered after sunshine, and formed many plans, eager though indefinite, for wintering
at Cintra, a place whose perfect beauty had fascinated him in early youth. But increasing weakness
made a journey to Portugal, or even the South of France, an alternative of which he also spoke,
very inexpedient, if not absolutely impracticable. Moreover, he would certainly have missed
abroad the many friends and multifarious interests which still surrounded him at home. He continued
to take drives, and occasionally called on friends, up to the end of November, and it was not
until the middle of December that increasing weakness obliged him to take to his bed. He was
still, however, able to enjoy seeing his friends--some to the very end, and he had a constant
stream of visitors, mostly old friends, but also a few newer ones, who were scarcely less welcome.
He also kept up his correspondence to the last, three attached brother R.E.'s, General Collinson,
General Maclagan, and Major W. Broadfoot, taking it in turn with the present writer to act
as his amanuensis.

On Friday, 27th December, Yule received a telegram from Paris, announcing his nomination that
day as Corresponding Member of the Institute of France (Académie des Inscriptions), one of
the few distinctions of any kind of which it can still be said that it has at no time lost
any of its exalted dignity.

An honour of a different kind that came about the same time, and was scarcely less prized by
him, was a very beautiful letter of farewell and benediction from Miss Florence Nightingale,[75]
which he kept under his pillow and read many times. On the 28th, he dictated to the present
writer his acknowledgment, also by telegraph, of the great honour done him by the Institute.
The message was in the following words: "Reddo gratias, Illustrissimi Domini, ob honores tanto
nimios quanto immeritos! Mihi robora deficiunt, vita collabitur, accipiatis voluntatem pro
facto. Cum corde pleno et gratissimo moriturus vos, Illustrissimi Domini, saluto. YULE."

Sunday, 29th December, was a day of the most dense black fog, and he felt its oppression, but
was much cheered by a visit from his ever faithful friend, Collinson, who, with his usual unselfishness,
came to him that day at very great personal inconvenience.

On Monday, 30th December, the day was clearer, and Henry Yule awoke much refreshed, and in
a peculiarly happy and even cheerful frame of mind. He said he felt so comfortable. He spoke
of his intended book, and bade his daughter write about the inevitable delay to his publisher:
"Go and write to John Murray," were indeed his last words to her. During the morning he saw
some friends and relations, but as noon approached his strength flagged, and after a period
of unconsciousness, he passed peacefully away in the presence of his daughter and of an old
friend, who had come from Edinburgh to see him, but arrived too late for recognition. Almost
at the same time that Yule fell asleep, his "stately message,"[76] was being read under the
great Dome in Paris. Some two hours after Yule had passed away, F.-M. Lord Napier of Magdala,
called on an errand of friendship, and at his desire was admitted to see the last of his early
friend. When Lord Napier came out, he said to the present writer, in his own reflective way:
"He looks as if he had just settled to some great work." With these suggestive words of the
great soldier, who was so soon, alas, to follow his old friend to the work of another world,
this sketch may fitly close.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following excellent verses (of unknown authorship) on Yule's death, subsequently appeared
in the Academy:[77]

  "'Moriturus vos saluto'
  Breathes his last the dying scholar--
  Tireless student, brilliant writer;
  He 'salutes his age' and journeys
  To the Undiscovered Country.
  There await him with warm welcome
  All the heroes of old Story--
  The Venetians, the Cà Polo,
  Marco, Nicolo, Maffeo,
  Odoric of Pordenone,
  Ibn Batuta, Marignolli,
  Benedict de Goës--'Seeking
  Lost Cathay and finding Heaven.'
  Many more whose lives he cherished
  With the piety of learning;
  Fading records, buried pages,
  Failing lights and fires forgotten,
  By his energy recovered,
  By his eloquence re-kindled.
  'Moriturus vos saluto'
  Breathes his last the dying scholar,
  And the far off ages answer:
  Immortales te salutant.                 D. M."

The same idea had been previously embodied, in very felicitous language, by the late General
Sir William Lockhart, in a letter which that noble soldier addressed to the present writer
a few days after Yule's death. And Yule himself would have taken pleasure in the idea of those
meetings with his old travellers, which seemed so certain to his surviving friends.[78]

He rests in the old cemetery at Tunbridge Wells, with his second wife, as he had directed.
A great gathering of friends attended the first part of the burial service which was held in
London on 3rd January, 1890. Amongst those present were witnesses of every stage of his career,
from his boyish days at the High School of Edinburgh downwards. His daughter, of course, was
there, led by the faithful, peerless friend who was so soon to follow him into the Undiscovered
Country.[79] She and his youngest nephew, with two cousins and a few old friends, followed
his remains over the snow to the graveside. The epitaph subsequently inscribed on the tomb
was penned by Yule himself, but is by no means representative of his powers in a kind of composition
in which he had so often excelled in the service of others. As a composer of epitaphs and other
monumental inscriptions few of our time have surpassed, if any have equalled him, in his best
efforts.

SIR GEORGE UDNY YULE, C.B., K.C.S.I.[80]

George Udny Yule, born at Inveresk in 1813, passed through Haileybury into the Bengal Civil
Service, which he entered at the age of 18 years. For twenty-five years his work lay in Eastern
Bengal. He gradually became known to the Government for his activity and good sense, but won
a far wider reputation as a mighty hunter, alike with hog-spear and double barrel. By 1856
the roll of his slain tigers exceeded four hundred, some of them of special fame; after that
he continued slaying his tigers, but ceased to count them. For some years he and a few friends
used annually to visit the plains of the Brahmaputra, near the Garrow Hills--an entirely virgin
country then, and swarming with large game. Yule used to describe his once seeing seven rhinoceroses
at once on the great plain, besides herds of wild buffalo and deer of several kinds. One of
the party started the theory that Noah's Ark had been shipwrecked there! In those days George
Yule was the only man to whom the Maharajah of Nepaul, Sir Jung Bahadur, conceded leave to
shoot within his frontier.

Yule was first called from his useful obscurity in 1856. The year before, the Sonthals in insurrection
disturbed the long unbroken peace of the Delta. These were a numerous non-Aryan, uncivilised,
but industrious race, driven wild by local mismanagement, and the oppressions of Hindoo usurers
acting through the regulation courts. After the suppression of their rising, Yule was selected
by Sir F. Halliday, who knew his man, to be Commissioner of the Bhagulpoor Division, containing
some six million souls, and embracing the hill country of the Sonthals. He obtained sanction
to a code for the latter, which removed these people entirely from the Court system, and its
tribe of leeches, and abolished all intermediaries between the Sahib and the Sonthal peasant.
Through these measures, and his personal influence, aided by picked assistants, he was able
to effect, with extraordinary rapidity, not only their entire pacification, but such a beneficial
change in their material condition, that they have risen from a state of barbarous penury to
comparative prosperity and comfort.

George Yule was thus engaged when the Mutiny broke out, and it soon made itself felt in the
districts under him. To its suppression within his limits, he addressed himself with characteristic
vigour. Thoroughly trusted by every class--by his Government, by those under him, by planters
and by Zemindars--he organised a little force, comprising a small detachment of the 5th Regiment,
a party of British sailors, mounted volunteers from the districts, etc., and of this he became
practically the captain. Elephants were collected from all quarters to spare the legs of his
infantry and sailors; while dog-carts were turned into limbers for the small three-pounders
of the seamen. And with this little army George Yule scoured the Trans-Gangetic districts,
leading it against bodies of the Mutineers, routing them upon more than one occasion, and out-manoeuvring
them by his astonishing marches, till he succeeded in driving them across the Nepaul frontier.
No part of Bengal was at any time in such danger, and nowhere was the danger more speedily
and completely averted.

After this Yule served for two or three years as Chief Commissioner of Oudh, where in 1862
he married Miss Pemberton, the daughter of a very able father, and the niece of Sir Donald
MacLeod, of honoured and beloved memory. Then for four or five years he was Resident at Hyderabad,
where he won the enduring friendship of Sir Salar Jung. "Everywhere he showed the same characteristic
firm but benignant justice. Everywhere he gained the lasting attachment of all with whom he
had intimate dealings--except tigers and scoundrels."

Many years later, indignant at the then apparently supine attitude of the British Government
in the matter of the Abyssinian captives, George Yule wrote a letter (necessarily published
without his name, as he was then on the Governor-General's Council), to the editor of an influential
Indian paper, proposing a private expedition should be organised for their delivery from King
Theodore, and inviting the editor (Dr. George Smith) to open a list of subscriptions in his
paper for this purpose, to which Yule offered to contribute £2000 by way of beginning. Although
impracticable in itself, it is probable that, as in other cases, the existence of such a project
may have helped to force the Government into action. The particulars of the above incident
were printed by Dr. Smith in his Memoir of the Rev. John Wilson, but are given here from memory.

From Hyderabad he was promoted in 1867 to the Governor-General's Council, but his health broke
down under the sedentary life, and he retired and came home in 1869.

After some years of country life in Scotland, where he bought a small property, he settled
near his brother in London, where he was a principal instrument in enabling Sir George Birdwood
to establish the celebration of Primrose Day (for he also was "one of Mr. Gladstone's converts").
Sir George Yule never sought 'London Society' or public employment, but in 1877 he was offered
and refused the post of Financial Adviser to the Khedive under the Dual control. When his feelings
were stirred he made useful contributions to the public press, which, after his escape from
official trammels, were always signed. The very last of these (St. James Gazette, 24th February
1885) was a spirited protest against the snub administered by the late Lord Derby, as Secretary
of State, to the Colonies, when they had generously offered assistance in the Soudan campaign.
He lived a quiet, happy, and useful life in London, where he was the friend and unwearied helper
of all who needed help. He found his chief interests in books and flowers, and in giving others
pleasure. Of rare unselfishness and sweet nature, single in mind and motive, fearing God and
knowing no other fear, he was regarded by a large number of people with admiring affection.
He met his death by a fall on the frosty pavement at his door, in the very act of doing a kindness.
An interesting sketch of Sir George Yule's Indian career, by one who knew him thoroughly, is
to be found in Sir Edward Braddon's Thirty Years of Shikar. An account of his share in the
origin of Primrose Day appeared in the St. James' Gazette during 1891.

[1] There is a vague tradition that these Yules descend from the same
    stock as the Scandinavian family of the same name, which gave Denmark
    several men of note, including the great naval hero Niels Juel. The
    portraits of these old Danes offer a certain resemblance of type to
    those of their Scots namesakes, and Henry Yule liked to play with the
    idea, much in the same way that he took humorous pleasure in his
    reputed descent from Michael Scott, the Wizard! (This tradition was
    more historical, however, and stood thus: Yule's great grandmother was
    a Scott of Ancrum, and the Scotts of Ancrum had established their
    descent from Sir Michael Scott of Balwearie, reputed to be the
    Wizard.) Be their origin what it may, Yule's forefathers had been
    already settled on the Border hills for many generations, when in the
    time of James VI. they migrated to the lower lands of East Lothian,
    where in the following reign they held the old fortalice of Fentoun
    Tower of Nisbet of Dirleton. When Charles II. empowered his Lord Lyon
    to issue certificates of arms (in place of the Lyon records removed
    and lost at sea by the Cromwellian Government), these Yules were among
    those who took out confirmation of arms, and the original document is
    still in the possession of the head of the family.

    Though Yules of sorts are still to be found in Scotland, the present
    writer is the only member of the Fentoun Tower family now left in the
    country, and of the few remaining out of it most are to be found in
    the Army List.

[2] The literary taste which marked William Yule probably came to him from
    his grandfather, the Rev. James Rose, Episcopal Minister of Udny, in
    Aberdeenshire. James Rose, a non-jurant (i.e. one who refused to
    acknowledge allegiance to the Hanoverian King), was a man of devout,
    large, and tolerant mind, as shown by writings still extant. His
    father, John Rose, was the younger son of the 14th Hugh of Kilravock.
    He married Margaret Udny of Udny, and was induced by her to sell his
    pleasant Ross-shire property and invest the proceeds in her own bleak
    Buchan. When George Yule (about 1759) brought home Elizabeth Rose as
    his wife, the popular feeling against the Episcopal Church was so
    strong and bitter in Lothian, that all the men of the family--
    themselves Presbyterians--accompanied Mrs. Yule as a bodyguard on the
    occasion of her first attendance at the Episcopal place of worship.
    Years after, when dissensions had arisen in the Church of Scotland,
    Elizabeth Yule succoured and protected some of the dissident
    Presbyterian ministers from their persecutors.

[3] General Collinson in Royal Engineers' Journal 1st Feb. 1890. The
    gifted author of this excellent sketch himself passed away on 22nd
    April 1902.

[4] The grave thoughtful face of William Yule was conspicuous in the
    picture of a Durbar (by an Italian artist, but not Zoffany), which
    long hung on the walls of the Nawab's palace at Lucknow. This picture
    disappeared during the Mutiny of 1857.

[5] Colonel Udny Yule, C.B. "When he joined, his usual nomen and
    cognomen puzzled the staff-sergeant at Fort-William, and after much
    boggling on the cadet parade, the name was called out Whirly Wheel,
    which produced no reply, till some one at a venture shouted, 'sick in
    hospital.'" (Athenaeum, 24th Sept. 1881.) The ship which took Udny
    Yule to India was burnt at sea. After keeping himself afloat for
    several hours in the water, he was rescued by a passing ship and taken
    back to the Mauritius, whence, having lost everything but his
    cadetship, he made a fresh start for India, where he and William for
    many years had a common purse. Colonel Udny Yule commanded a brigade
    at the Siege of Cornelis (1811), which gave us Java, and afterwards
    acted as Resident under Sir Stamford Raffles. Forty-five years after
    the retrocession of Java, Henry Yule found the memory of his uncle
    still cherished there.

[6] Article on the Oriental Section of the British Museum Library in
    Athenaeum, 24th Sept. 1881. Major Yule's Oriental Library was
    presented by his sons to the British Museum a few years after his
    death.

[7] It may be amusing to note that he was considered an almost dangerous
    person because he read the Scotsman newspaper!

[8] Athenaeum, 24th Sept. 1881. A gold chain given by the last
    Dauphiness is in the writer's possession.

[9] Dr. John Yule (b. 176-d. 1827), a kindly old savant. He was one of
    the earliest corresponding members of the Society of Antiquaries of
    Scotland, and the author of some botanical tracts.

[10] According to Brunet, by Lucas Pennis after Antonio Tempesta.

[11] Concerning some little-known Travellers in the East. ASIATIC
    QUARTERLY, vol. v. (1888).

[12] William Yule died in 1839, and rests with his parents, brothers, and
    many others of his kindred, in the ruined chancel of the ancient
    Norman Church of St. Andrew, at Gulane, which had been granted to the
    Yule family as a place of burial by the Nisbets of Dirleton, in
    remembrance of the old kindly feeling subsisting for generations
    between them and their tacksmen in Fentoun Tower. Though few know its
    history, a fragrant memorial of this wise and kindly scholar is still
    conspicuous in Edinburgh. The magnificent wall-flower that has, for
    seventy summers, been a glory of the Castle rock, was originally all
    sown by the patient hand of Major Yule, the self-sowing of each
    subsequent year, of course, increasing the extent of bloom. Lest the
    extraordinarily severe spring of 1895 should have killed off much of
    the old stock, another (but much more limited) sowing on the northern
    face of the rock was in that year made by his grand-daughter, the
    present writer, with the sanction and active personal help of the
    lamented General (then Colonel) Andrew Wauchope of Niddrie Marischal.
    In Scotland, where the memory of this noble soldier is so greatly
    revered, some may like to know this little fact. May the wall-flower
    of the Castle rock long flourish a fragrant memorial of two faithful
    soldiers and true-hearted Scots.

[13] Obituary notice of Yule, by Gen. R. Maclagan, R.E. Proceedings, R.
    G. S. 1890.

[14] This was the famous "Grey Dinner," of which The Shepherd made grim
    fun in the Noctes.

[15] Probably the specimen from South America, of which an account was
    published in 1833.

[16] Rawnsley, Memoir of Harvey Goodwin, Bishop of Carlisle.

[17] Biog. Sketch of Yule, by C. Trotter, Proceedings, R.S.E. vol. xvii.

[18] Biog. Sketch of Yule, by C. Trotter, Proceedings, R.S.E. vol. xvii.

[19] After leaving the army, Yule always used this sword when wearing
    uniform.

[20] The Engineer cadets remained at Addiscombe a term (= 6 months) longer
    than the Artillery cadets, and as the latter were ordinarily gazetted
    full lieutenants six months after passing out, unfair seniority was
    obviated by the Engineers receiving the same rank on passing out of
    Addiscombe.

[21] Yule, in Memoir of General Becher.

[22] Collinson's Memoir of Yule in R. E. Journal.

[23] The picture was subscribed for by his brother officers in the corps,
    and painted in 1880 by T. B. Wirgman. It was exhibited at the Royal
    Academy in 1881. A reproduction of the artist's etching from it forms
    the frontispiece of this volume.

[24] In Memoir of Gen. John Becher.

[25] General Patrick Yule (b. 1795, d. 1873) was a thorough soldier, with
    the repute of being a rigid disciplinarian. He was a man of
    distinguished presence, and great charm of manner to those whom he
    liked, which were by no means all. The present writer holds him in
    affectionate remembrance, and owes to early correspondence with him
    much of the information embodied in preceding notes. He served on the
    Canadian Boundary Commission of 1817, and on the Commission of
    National Defence of 1859, was prominent in the Ordnance Survey, and
    successively Commanding R.E. in Malta and Scotland. He was Engineer to
    Sir C. Fellows' Expedition, which gave the nation the Lycian Marbles,
    and while Commanding R.E. in Edinburgh, was largely instrumental in
    rescuing St. Margaret's Chapel in the Castle from desecration and
    oblivion. He was a thorough Scot, and never willingly tolerated the
    designation N.B. on even a letter. He had cultivated tastes, and under
    a somewhat austere exterior he had a most tender heart. When already
    past sixty, he made a singularly happy marriage to a truly good woman,
    who thoroughly appreciated him. He was the author of several Memoirs
    on professional subjects. He rests in St. Andrew's, Gulane.

[26] Collinson's Memoir of Yule.

[27] Notes on the Iron of the Khasia Hills and Notes on the Khasia Hills
    and People both in Journal of the R. Asiatic Society of Bengal, vols.
    xi. and xiii.

[28] Mr. (afterwards Sir) George Clerk, Political Officer with the
    expedition. Was twice Governor of Bombay and once Governor of the
    Cape: "A diplomatist of the true English stamp--undaunted in
    difficulties and resolute to maintain the honour of his country." (Sir
    H. B. Edwardes, Life of Henry Lawrence, i. 267). He died in 1889.

[29] Note by Yule, communicated by him to Mr. R. B. Smith and printed by
    the latter in Life of Lord Lawrence.

[30] And when nearing his own end, it was to her that his thoughts turned
    most constantly.

[31] Yule and Maclagan's Memoir of Sir W. Baker.

[32] Maclagan's Memoir of Yule, P.R.G.S., Feb. 1890.

[33] On hearing this, Yule said to him, "Your story is quite correct
     except in one particular; you understated the amount of the fine."

[34] Yule and Maclagan's Memoir of Baker.

[35] It would appear that Major Yule had presented the Rodgers with some
    specimens of Indian scissors, probably as suggestions in developing
    that field of export. Scissors of elaborate design, usually damascened
    or gilt, used to form a most important item in every set of Oriental
    writing implements. Even long after adhesive envelopes had become
    common in European Turkey, their use was considered over familiar, if
    not actually disrespectful, for formal letters, and there was a
    particular traditional knack in cutting and folding the special
    envelope for each missive, which was included in the instruction given
    by every competent Khoja as the present writer well remembers in the
    quiet years that ended with the disasters of 1877.

[36] Collinson's Memoir of Yule, Royal Engineer Journal.

[37] Extract from Preface to Ava, edition of 1858.

[38] The present whereabouts of this picture is unknown to the writer. It
    was lent to Yule in 1889 by Lord Dalhousie's surviving daughter (for
    whom he had strong regard and much sympathy), and was returned to her
    early in 1890, but is not named in the catalogue of Lady Susan's
    effects, sold at Edinburgh in 1898 after her death. At that sale the
    present writer had the satisfaction of securing for reverent
    preservation the watch used throughout his career by the great
    Marquess.

[39] Now in the writer's possession. It was for many years on exhibition
    in the Edinburgh and South Kensington Museums.

[40] Article by Yule on Lord Lawrence, Quarterly Review for April, 1883.

[41] Messrs. Smith & Elder.

[42] Preface to Narrative of a Mission to the Court of Ava. Before these
    words were written, Yule had had the sorrow of losing his elder
    brother Robert, who had fallen in action before Delhi (19th June,
    1857), whilst in command of his regiment, the 9th Lancers. Robert
    Abercromby Yule (born 1817) was a very noble character and a fine
    soldier. He had served with distinction in the campaigns in
    Afghanistan and the Sikh Wars, and was the author of an excellent
    brief treatise on Cavalry Tactics. He had a ready pencil and a happy
    turn for graceful verse. In prose his charming little allegorical tale
    for children, entitled The White Rhododendron, is as pure and
    graceful as the flower whose name it bears. Like both his brothers, he
    was at once chivalrous and devout, modest, impulsive, and impetuous.
    No officer was more beloved by his men than Robert Yule, and when some
    one met them carrying back his covered body from the field and
    enquired of the sergeant: "Who have you got there?" the reply was:
    "Colonel Yule, and better have lost half the regiment, sir." It was in
    the chivalrous effort to extricate some exposed guns that he fell.
    Some one told afterwards that when asked to go to the rescue, he
    turned in the saddle, looked back wistfully on his regiment, well
    knowing the cost of such an enterprise, then gave the order to advance
    and charge. "No stone marks the spot where Yule went down, but no
    stone is needed to commemorate his valour" (Archibald Forbes, in
    Daily News, 8th Feb. 1876). At the time of his death Colonel R. A.
    Yule had been recommended for the C.B. His eldest son, Colonel J. H.
    Yule, C.B., distinguished himself in several recent campaigns (on the
    Burma-Chinese frontier, in Tirah, and South Africa).

[43] Baker went home in November, 1857, but did not retire until the
    following year.

[44] Nothing was more worthy of respect in Yule's fine character than the
    energy and success with which he mastered his natural temperament in
    the last ten years of his life, when few would have guessed his
    original fiery disposition.

[45] Not without cause did Sir J. P. Grant officially record that "to his
    imperturbable temper the Government of India owed much."

[46] Yule's colour-blindness was one of the cases in which Dalton, the
    original investigator of this optical defect, took special interest.
    At a later date (1859) he sent Yule, through Professor Wilson, skeins
    of coloured silks to name. Yule's elder brother Robert had the same
    peculiarity of sight, and it was also present in two earlier and two
    later generations of their mother's family--making five generations in
    all. But in no case did it pass from parent to child, always passing
    in these examples, by a sort of Knight's move, from uncle to nephew.
    Another peculiarity of Yule's more difficult to describe was the
    instinctive association of certain architectural forms or images with
    the days of the week. He once, and once only (in 1843), met another
    person, a lady who was a perfect stranger, with the same peculiarity.
    About 1878-79 he contributed some notes on this obscure subject to one
    of the newspapers, in connection with the researches of Mr. Francis
    Galton, on Visualisation, but the particulars are not now accessible.

[47] From Yule's verses on her grave.

[48] Lord Canning to Lady Clanricarde: Letter dated Barrackpoor, 19th Nov.
    1861, 7 A.M., printed in Two Noble Lives, by A. J. C. Hare, and here
    reproduced by Mr. Hare's permission.

[49] Lord Canning's letter to Lady Clanricarde. He gave to Yule Lady
    Canning's own silver drinking-cup, which she had constantly used. It
    is carefully treasured, with other Canning and Dalhousie relics, by
    the present writer.

[50] Many years later Yule wrote of Lord Canning as follows: "He had his
    defects, no doubt. He had not at first that entire grasp of the
    situation that was wanted at such a time of crisis. But there is a
    virtue which in these days seems unknown to Parliamentary statesmen in
    England--Magnanimity. Lord Canning was an English statesman, and he
    was surpassingly magnanimous. There is another virtue which in Holy
    Writ is taken as the type and sum of all righteousness--Justice--and
    he was eminently just. The misuse of special powers granted early in
    the Mutiny called for Lord Canning's interference, and the consequence
    was a flood of savage abuse; the violence and bitterness of which it
    is now hard to realise." (Quarterly Review, April, 1883, p. 306.)

[51] During the next ten years Yule continued to visit London annually for
    two or three months in the spring or early summer.

[52] Now in the writer's possession. They appear in the well-known
     portrait of Lord Canning reading a despatch.

[53] Lord Canning's recommendation had been mislaid, and the India Office
    was disposed to ignore it. It was Lord Canning's old friend and Eton
    chum, Lord Granville, who obtained this tardy justice for Yule,
    instigated thereto by that most faithful friend, Sir Roderick
    Murchison.

[54] I cannot let the mention of this time of lonely sickness and trial
    pass without recording here my deep gratitude to our dear and honoured
    friend, John Ruskin. As my dear mother stood on the threshold between
    life and death at Mornex that sad spring, he was untiring in all
    kindly offices of friendship. It was her old friend, Principal A. J.
    Scott (then eminent, now forgotten), who sent him to call. He came to
    see us daily when possible, sometimes bringing MSS. of Rossetti and
    others to read aloud (and who could equal his reading?), and when she
    was too ill for this, or himself absent, he would send not only books
    and flowers to brighten the bare rooms of the hillside inn (then very
    primitive), but his own best treasures of Turner and W. Hunt, drawings
    and illuminated missals. It was an anxious solace; and though most
    gratefully enjoyed, these treasures were never long retained.

[55] Villa Mansi, nearly opposite the old Ducal Palace. With its private
    chapel, it formed three sides of a small place or court.

[56] He also at all times spared no pains to enforce that ideal on other
    index-makers, who were not always grateful for his sound doctrine!

[57] He saw a good deal of the outbreak when taking small comforts to a
    friend, the Commandent of the Military School, who was captured and
    imprisioned by the insurgents.

[58] After 1869 he discontinued sea-bathing.

[59] This was Yule's first geographical honour, but he had been elected
    into the Athenaeum Club, under "Rule II.," in January, 1867.

[60] Garnier took a distinguished part in the Defence of Paris in 1870-71,
    after which he resumed his naval service in the East, where he was
    killed in action. His last letter to Yule contained the simple
    announcement "J'ai pris Hanoï" a modest terseness of statement
    worthy of the best naval traditions.

[61] One year the present writer, at her mother's desire, induced him to
    take walks of 10 to 12 miles with her, but interesting and lovely as
    the scenery was, he soon wearied for his writing-table (even bringing
    his work with him), and thus little permanent good was effected. And
    it was just the same afterwards in Scotland, where an old Highland
    gillie, describing his experience of the Yule brothers, said: "I was
    liking to take out Sir George, for he takes the time to enjoy the
    hills, but (plaintively), the Kornel is no good, for he's just as
    restless as a water-wagtail!" If there be any mal de l'écritoire
    corresponding to mal du pays, Yule certainly had it.

[62] The Russian Government in 1873 paid the same work the very practical
    compliment of circulating it largely amongst their officers in Central
    Asia.

[63] "Auch in den Literaturen von Frankreich, Italien, Deutschland und
    andere Ländern ist der mächtig treibende Einfluss der Yuleschen
    Methode, welche wissenschaftliche Grundlichkeit mit anmuthender Form
    verbindet, bemerkbar." (Verhandlungen der Gesellschaft für Erdkunde
zu
    Berlin, Band XVII. No. 2.)

[64] This subject is too lengthy for more than cursory allusion here, but
    the patient analytic skill and keen venatic instinct with which Yule
    not only proved the forgery of the alleged Travels of Georg Ludwig
    von ---- (that had been already established by Lord Strangford, whose
    last effort it was, and Sir Henry Rawlinson), but step by step traced
    it home to the arch-culprit Klaproth, was nothing less than masterly.

[65] This is probably the origin of the odd misstatement as to Yule
    occupying himself at Palermo with photography, made in the delightful
    Reminiscences of the late Colonel Balcarres Ramsay. Yule never
    attempted photography after 1852.

[66] She was a woman of fine intellect and wide reading; a skilful
    musician, who also sang well, and a good amateur artist in the style
    of Aug. Delacroix (of whom she was a favourite pupil). Of French and
    Italian she had a thorough and literary mastery, and how well she knew
    her own language is shown by the sound and pure English of a story she
    published in early life, under the pseudonym of Max Lyle (Fair Oaks,
    or The Experiences of Arnold Osborne, M.D., 2 vols., 1856). My mother
    was partly of Highland descent on both sides, and many of her fine
    qualities were very characteristic of that race. Before her marriage
    she took an active part in many good works, and herself originated the
    useful School for the Blind at Bath, in a room which she hired with
    her pocket-money, where she and her friend Miss Elwin taught such of
    the blind poor as they could gather together.

    In the tablet which he erected to her memory in the family
    burial-place of St. Andrew's, Gulane, her husband described her
    thus:--"A woman singular in endowments, in suffering, and in faith; to
    whom to live was Christ, to die was gain."

[67] Mary Wilhelmina, daughter of F. Skipwith, Esq., B.C.S.

[68] Collinson's Memoir of Yule.

[69] See Notes from a Diary, 1888-91.

[70] The identification was not limited to Yule, for when travelling in
    Russia many years ago, the present writer was introduced by an
    absent-minded Russian savant to his colleagues as Mademoiselle
    Marco Paulovna!

[71] See Note on Sir George Yule's career at the end of this Memoir.

[72] Addressed to the Editor, Royal Engineers' Journal, who did not,
    however, publish it.

[73] Debate of 27th August, 1889, as reported in The Times of 28th
    August.

[74] Yule had published a brief but very interesting Memoir of Major
    Rennell in the R. E. Journal in 1881. He was extremely proud of the
    circumstance that Rennell's surviving grand-daughter presented to him
    a beautiful wax medallion portrait of the great geographer. This
    wonderfully life-like presentment was bequeathed by Yule to his friend
    Sir Joseph Hooker, who presented it to the Royal Society.

[75] Knowing his veneration for that noble lady, I had written to tell her
    of his condition, and to ask her to give him this last pleasure of a
    few words. The response was such as few but herself could write. This
    letter was not to be found after my father's death, and I can only
    conjecture that it must either have been given away by himself (which
    is most improbable), or was appropriated by some unauthorised
    outsider.

[76] So Sir M. E. Grant Duff well calls it.

[77] Academy, 19th March, 1890.

[78] He was much pleased, I remember, by a letter he once received from a
    kindly Franciscan friar, who wrote: "You may rest assured that the
    Beato Odorico will not forget all you have done for him."

[79] F.-M. Lord Napier of Magdala, died 14th January, 1890.

[80] This notice includes the greater part of an article written by my
    father, and published in the St. James' Gazette of 18th January,
    1886, but I have added other details from personal recollection and
    other sources.--A. F. Y.

A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF SIR HENRY YULE'S WRITINGS

COMPILED BY H. CORDIER AND A. F. YULE[1]

1842 Notes on the Iron of the Kasia Hills. (Jour. Asiatic Soc. Bengal,
     XI. Part II. July-Dec. 1842, pp. 853-857.)

     Reprinted in Proceedings of the Museum of Economic Geology, 1852.

1844 Notes on the Kasia Hills and People. By Lieut. H. Yule. (Jour.
     Asiatic Soc. Bengal, XII. Part II. July-Dec. 1844, pp. 612-631.)

1846 A Canal Act of the Emperor Akbar, with some notes and remarks on the
     History of the Western Jumna Canals. By Lieut. Yule. (Jour. Asiatic
     Society Bengal, XV. 1846, pp. 213-223.)

1850 The African Squadron vindicated. By Lieut. H. Yule. Second Edition.
     London, J. Ridgway, 1850, 8vo, pp. 41.

     Had several editions. Reprinted in the Colonial Magazine of March,
     1850.

---- L'Escadre Africaine vengée. Par le lieutenant H. Yule. Traduit du
     Colonial Magazine de Mars, 1850. (Revue Coloniale, Mai, 1850.)

1851 Fortification for Officers of the Army and Students of Military
     History, with Illustrations and Notes. By Lieut. H. Yule, Blackwood,
     MDCCCLI. 8vo, pp. xxii.-210. (There had been a previous edition
     privately printed.)

---- La Fortification mise à la portée des Officiers de l'Armée et des
     personnes qui se livrent à l'étude de l'histoire militaire (avec
     Atlas). Par H. Yule. Traduit de l'Anglais par M. Sapia, Chef de
     Bataillon d'Artillerie de Marine et M. Masselin, Capitaine du Génie.
     Paris, J. Corréard, 1858, 8vo, pp. iii.-263, and Atlas.

1851 The Loss of the Birkenhead (Verses). (Edinburgh Courant, Dec.
     1851.)

     Republished in Henley's Lyra Heroica, a Book of Verse for Boys.
     London, D. Nutt, 1890.

1852 Tibet. (Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine, 1852.)

1856 Narrative of Major Phayre's Mission to the Court of Ava, with Notices
     of the Country, Government, and People. Compiled by Capt. H. Yule.
     Printed for submission to the Government of India. Calcutta, J.
     Thomas,... 1856, 4to, pp. xxix. + 1 f. n. ch. p. l. er. + pp. 315 +
     pp. cxiv. + pp. iv. and pp. 70.

     The last pp. iv.-70 contain: Notes on the Geological features of the
     banks of the River Irawadee and on the Country north of the
     Amarapoora, by Thomas Oldham ... Calcutta, 1856.

---- A Narrative of the Mission sent by the Governor-General of India to
     the Court of Ava in 1855, with Notices of the Country, Government,
     and People. By Capt. H. Yule. With Numerous Illustrations. London,
     Smith, Elder & Co., 1858, 4to.

1857 On the Geography of Burma and its Tributary States, in illustration
     of a New Map of those Regions. (Journal, R.G.S., XXVII. 1857, pp.
     54-108.)

---- Notes on the Geography of Burma, in illustration of a Map of that
     Country. (Proceedings R. G. S., vol. i. 1857, pp. 269-273.)

1857 An Account of the Ancient Buddhist Remains at Pagân on the Iráwadi.
     By Capt. H. Yule. (Jour. Asiatic Society, Bengal, XXVI. 1857,
     pp. 1-51.)

1861 A few notes on Antiquities near Jubbulpoor. By Lieut.-Col. H. Yule.
     (Journal Asiatic Society, Bengal, XXX. 1861, pp. 211-215.)

---- Memorandum on the Countries between Thibet, Yunân, and Burmah. By the
     Very Rev. Thomine D'Mazure (sic), communicated by Lieut.-Col. A. P.
     Phayre (with notes and a comment by Lieut.-Col. H. Yule) With a Map
of
     the N. E. Frontier, prepared in the Office of the Surveyor-Gen. of
     India, Calcutta, Aug. 1861. (Jour. Asiatic Soc. Bengal, XXX. 1861,
     pp. 367-383.)

1862 Notes of a brief Visit to some of the Indian Remains in Java.
     By Lieut.-Col. H. Yule. (Jour. Asiatic Society, Bengal, XXXI.
     1862, pp. 16-31.)

---- Sketches of Java. A Lecture delivered at the Meeting of the Bethune
     Society, Calcutta, 13th Feb. 1862.

---- Fragments of Unprofessional Papers gathered from an Engineer's
     portfolio after twenty-three years of service. Calcutta, 1862.

     Ten copies printed for private circulation.

1863 Mirabilia descripta. The Wonders of the East. By Friar Jordanus, of
     the Order of Preachers and Bishop of Columbum in India the Greater
     (circa 1330). Translated from the Latin original, as published at
     Paris in 1839, in the Recueil de Voyages et de Mémoires, of the
     Society of Geography, with the addition of a Commentary, by Col. H.
     Yule, London.

     Printed for the Hakluyt Society, M.DCCC.LXIII, 8vo, p. iv.-xvii.-68.

---- Report on the Passes between Arakan and Burma [written in 1853].
     (Papers on Indian Civil Engineering, vol. i. Roorkee.)

1866 Notices of Cathay. (Proceedings, R.G.S., X. 1866, pp. 270-278.)

---- Cathay and the Way Thither, being a Collection of Mediaeval Notices
     of China. M.DCCC.LXVI. 2 vols. 8vo.

1866 The Insurrection at Palermo. (Times, 29th Sep., 1866.)

---- Lake People. (The Athenaeum, No. 2042, 15th Dec. 1866, p. 804.)

     Letter dated Palermo, 3rd Dec. 1866.

1867 General Index to the third ten Volumes of the Journal of the Royal
     Geographical Society. Compiled by Col. H. Yule. London, John Murray,
     M.DCCCLXVII, 8vo, pp. 228.

---- A Week's Republic at Palermo. (Quarterly Review, Jan. 1867.)

---- On the Cultivation of Sumach (Rhus coriaria), in the Vicinity of
     Colli, near Palermo. By Prof. Inzenga. Translated by Col. H. Yule.
     Communicated by Dr. Cleghorn. From the Trans. Bot. Society, vol.
     ix., 1867-68, ppt. 8vo, p. 15.

     Original first published in the Annali di Agricoltura Siciliana,
     redatti per l'Istituzione del Principe di Castelnuovo. Palermo,
     1852.

1868 Marco Polo and his Recent Editors. (Quarterly Review, vol. 125,
     July and Oct. 1868, pp. 133 and 166.)

1870 An Endeavour to Elucidate Rashiduddin's Geographical Notices of
     India. (Journal R. Asiatic Society, N.S. iv. 1870, pp. 340-356.)

---- Some Account of the Senbyú Pagoda at Mengún, near the Burmese
     Capital, in a Memorandum by Capt. E. H. Sladen, Political Agent at
     Mandalé; with Remarks on the Subject, by Col. H. Yule. (Ibid. pp.
     406-429.)

---- Notes on Analogies of Manners between the Indo-Chinese and the Races
     of the Malay Archipelago. By Col.
     H. Yule. In two volumes. With Maps and other Illustrations. London,
     John Murray, 1871, 2 vols. 8vo. By Col. H. Yule. Second edition. London,
     John Murray, 1875, 2 vols. 8vo.

1871 Address by Col. H. Yule (Report Forty-First Meeting British
     Association, Edinburgh, Aug. 1871, pp. 162-174.)

1872 A Journey to the Source of the River Oxus. By Captain John Wood,
     Indian Navy. New edition, edited by his Son. With an Essay on the
     Geography of the Valley of the Oxus. By Col. H. Yule. With maps.
     London, John Murray, 1872. In-8, pp. xc.-280.

---- Papers connected with the Upper Oxus Regions. (Journal, xlii. 1872,
     pp. 438-481.)

---- Letter [on Yule's edition of Wood's Oxus]. (Ocean Highways, Feb.
     1874, p. 475.)

     Palermo, 9th Jan. 1874.

1873 Letter [about the route of M. Polo through Southern Kerman]. (Ocean
     Highways, March, 1873, p. 385.)

     Palermo, 11th Jan. 1873.

---- On Northern Sumatra and especially Achin. (Ocean Highways, Aug.
     1873, pp. 177-183.)

---- Notes on Hwen Thsang's Account of the Principalities of Tokharistan,
     in which some previous Geographical Identifications are reconsidered.
     (Jour. Royal Asiatic Society, N.S. vi. 1873, pp, 92-120 and p.
     278.)

1874 Francis Garnier (In Memoriam). (Ocean Highways, pp. 487-491.)
     March, 1874.

---- Remarks on Mr. Phillips's Paper [Notices of Southern Mangi].
     (Journal, XLIV. 1874, pp. 103-112.)

     Palermo, 22nd Feb. 1874.

---- [Sir Frederic Goldsmid's] "Telegraph and Travel." (Geographical
     Magazine, April, 1874, p. 34; Oct. 1874, pp. 300-303.)

---- Geographical Notes on the Basins of the Oxus and the Zarafshán. By
     the late Alexis Fedchenko. (Geog. Mag., May, 1874, pp. 46-54.)

---- [Mr. Ashton Dilke on the Valley of the Ili.] (Geog. Mag., June,
     1874, p. 123.) Palermo, 16th May, 1874.

---- The Atlas Sinensis and other Sinensiana. (Geog. Mag., 1st July,
     1847, pp. 147-148.)

---- Letter [on Belasaghun]. (Geog. Mag., 1st July, 1874, p. 167; Ibid.
     1st Sept. 1874, p. 254.)

     Palermo, 17th June, 1874; 8th Aug. 1874.

1874 Bala Sagun and Karakorum. By Eugene Schuyler. With note by Col. Yule.
     (Geog. Mag., 1st Dec. 1874, p. 389.)

---- M. Khanikoff's Identifications of Names in Clavijo. (Ibid. pp.
     389-390.)

1875 Notes [to the translation by Eugene Schuyler of Palladius's version
     of The Journey of the Chinese Traveller, Chang Fe-hui]. (Geog.
     Mag., 1st Jan. 1875, pp. 7-11).

---- Some Unscientific Notes on the History of Plants. (Geog. Mag., 1st
     Feb. 1875, pp. 49-51)

---- Trade Routes to Western China. (Geog. Mag., April, 1875, pp.
     97-101.)

---- Garden of Transmigrated Souls [Friar Odoric]. (Geog. Mag., 1st May,
     1875, pp. 137-138.)

---- A Glance at the Results of the Expedition to Hissar. By Herr P.
     Lerch. (Geog. Mag., 1st Nov. 1875, pp. 334-339.)

---- Kathay or Cathay. (Johnson's American Cyclopaedia.)

---- Achín. (Encycl. Brit. 9th edition, 1875, I. pp. 95-97.)

---- Afghânistân. (Ibid. pp. 227-241.)

---- Andaman Islands. (Ibid. II. 1875, pp. 11-13.)

---- India [Ancient]. (Map No. 31, 1874, in An Atlas of Ancient
     Geography, edited by William Smith and George Grove. London, John
     Murray, 1875.)

1876 Mongolia, the Tangut Country, and the Solitudes of Northern Tibet,
     being a Narrative of Three Years' Travel in Eastern High Asia. By
     Lieut.-Col. N. Prejevalsky, of the Russian Staff Corps; Mem. of the
     Imp. Russ. Geog. Soc. Translated by E. Delmar Morgan, F.R.G.S. With
     Introduction and Notes by Col. H. Yule. With Maps and Illustrations.
     London, Sampson Low, 1876, 8vo.

---- Tibet ... Edited by C. R. Markham. Notice of. (Times, 1876,
     ----?)

---- Eastern Persia. Letter. (The Athenaeum, No. 2559, 11th Nov. 1876.)

---- Review of H. Howorth's History of the Mongols, Part I. (The
     Athenaeum, No. 2560, 18th Nov. 1876, pp. 654-656.) Correspondence.
     (Ibid. No. 2561, 25th Nov. 1876.)

---- Review of T. E. Gordon's Roof of the World. (The Academy, 15th
     July, 1876, pp. 49-50.)

1876 Cambodia. (Encycl. Brit. IV. 1876, pp. 723-726.)

1877 Champa. (Geog. Mag., 1st March, 1877, pp. 66-67.)

     Article written for the Encycl. Brit. 9th edition, but omitted for
     reasons which the writer did not clearly understand.

---- Quid, si Mundus evolvatur? (Spectator, 24th March, 1877.)

     Written in 1875.--Signed MARCUS PAULUS VENETUS.

---- On Louis de Backer's L'Extrême-Orient au Moyen-Age. (The
     Athenaeum, No. 2598, 11th Aug. 1877, pp. 174-175.)

---- On P. Dabry de Thiersant's Catholicisme en Chine. (The Athenaeum,
     No. 2599, 18th Aug. 1877, pp. 209-210.)

---- Review of Thomas de Quincey, His Life and Writings. By H. A. Page.
     (Times, 27th Aug. 1877.)

---- Companions of Faust. Letter on the Claims of P. Castaldi.
     (Times, Sept. 1877.)

1878 The late Col. T. G. Montgomerie, R.E. (Bengal). (R. E. Journal,
     April, 1878.) 8vo, pp. 8.

---- Mr. Henry M. Stanley and the Royal Geographical Society; being the
     Record of a Protest. By Col. H. Yule and H. M. Hyndman B.A., F.R.G.S.
     London: Bickers and Son, 1878, 8vo, pp. 48

---- Review of Burma, Past and Present; with Personal Reminiscences of
     the Country. By Lieut.-Gen. Albert Fytche. (The Athenaeum, No.
     2634, 20th April, 1878, pp. 499-500.)

---- Kayal. (The Athenaeum, No. 2634, 20th April, 1878, p. 515.)

     Letter dated April, 1878.

---- Missions in Southern India. (Letter to Pall Mall Gazette, 20th
     June, 1878.)

---- Mr. Stanley and his Letters of 1875. (Letter to Pall Mall Gazette,
     30th Jan. 1878.)

---- Review of Richthofen's China, Bd. I. (The Academy, 13th April,
     1878, pp. 315-316.)

---- [A foreshadowing of the Phonograph.] (The Athenaeum, No. 2636,
     4th May, 1878.)

1879 A Memorial of the Life and Services of Maj.-Gen. W. W. H. Greathed,
     C.B., Royal Engineers (Bengal), (1826-1878). Compiled by a Friend and
     Brother Officer. London, printed for private circulation, 1879, 8vo,
     pp. 57.

---- Review of Gaur: its Ruins and Inscriptions. By John Henry
     Ravenshaw. (The Athenaeum, No. 2672, 11th Jan. 1879, pp. 42-44.)

---- Wellington College. (Letter to Pall Mall Gazette, 14th April,
     1879.)

---- Dr. Holub's Travels. (The Athenaeum, No. 2710, 4th Oct. 1879,
     pp. 436-437.)

---- Letter to Comm. Berchet, dated 2nd Dec. 1878. (Archivio Veneto
     XVII. 1879, pp. 360-362.)

     Regarding some documents discovered by the Ab. Cav. V. Zanetti.

---- Gaur. (Encyclop. Brit. X. 1879, pp. 112-116.)

---- Ghazni. (Ibid. pp. 559-562.)

---- Gilgit. (Ibid. pp. 596-599.)

---- Singular Coincidences. (The Athenaeum, No. 2719, 6th Dec. 1879.)

1880 [Brief Obituary Notice of] General W. C. Macleod. (Pall Mall
     Gazette, 10th April, 1880.)

---- [Obituary Notice of] Gen. W. C. Macleod. (Proc. R. Geog. Soc.,
     June, 1880.)

---- An Ode in Brown Pig. Suggested by reading Mr. Lang's Ballades in
     Blue China. [Signed MARCUS PAULUS VENETUS.] (St. James' Gazette,
     17th July, 1880.)

---- Notes on Analogies of Manners between the Indo-Chinese Races and the
     Races of the Indian Archipelago. By Col. Yule (Journ. Anthrop. Inst.
     of Great Britain and Ireland, vol. ix., 1880, pp. 290-301.)

---- Sketches of Asia in the Thirteenth Century and of Marco Polo's
     Travels, delivered at Royal Engineer Institute, 18th Nov. 1880.

     [This Lecture, with slight modification, was also delivered on other
     occasions both before and after. Doubtful if ever fully reported.]

---- Dr. Holub's Collections. (The Athenaeum, No. 2724, 10th Jan. 1880.)

---- Prof. Max Müller's Paper at the Royal Asiatic Society. (The
     Athenaeum, No. 2731, 28th Feb. 1880, p. 285.)

---- The Temple of Buddha Gaya. (Review of Dr. Rajendralála Mitra's
     Buddha Gaya.) (Sat. Rev., 27th March, 1870.)

---- Mr. Gladstone and Count Karoiyi. (Letter to The Examiner, 22nd May,
     1880, signed TRISTRAM SHANDY.)

1880 Stupa of Barhut. [Review of Cunningham's work.] (Sat. Rev., 5th
     June, 1880.)

---- From Africa: Southampton, Fifth October, 1880.

     [Verses to Sir Bartle Frere.] (Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine, Nov.
     1880.)

---- Review of H. Howorth's History of the Mongols, Part II. (The
     Athenaeum, No. 2762, 2nd Oct. 1880, pp. 425-427.)

---- Verboten ist, a Rhineland Rhapsody. (Printed for private
     circulation only.)

---- Hindú-Kúsh. (Encyclop. Brit. XI. 1880, pp. 837-839.)

---- The River of Golden Sand, the Narrative of a Journey through China
     and Eastern Tibet to Burmah, With Illustrations and ten Maps from
     Original Surveys. By Capt. W. Gill, Royal Engineers. With an
     Introductory Essay. By Col. H. Yule, London, John Murray,... 1880,
     2 vols. By the late Capt. W. Gill, R.E.
     Condensed by Edward Colborne Baber, Chinese Secretary to H.M.'s
     Legation at Peking. Edited, with a Memoir and Introductory Essay, by
     Col. H. Yule. With Portrait, Map, and Woodcuts. London, John Murray,
     1883, 8vo., pp. 141-332.

---- Memoir of Captain W. Gill, R.E., and Introductory Essay as prefixed
     to the New Edition of the "River of Golden Sand." By Col. H. Yule.
     London, John Murray,... 1884, 8vo. [Paged 19-141.]

1881 [Notice on William Yule] in Persian Manuscripts in the British
     Museum. By Sir F. J. Goldsmid. (The Athenaeum, No. 2813, 24th Sept.
     1881, pp. 401-403.)

---- Il Beato Odorico di Pordenone, ed i suoi Viaggi: Cenni dettati dal
     Col. Enrico Yule, quando s'inaugurava in Pordenone il Busto di
     Odorico il giorno, 23° Settembre, MDCCCLXXXI, 8vo. pp. 8.

---- Hwen T'sang. (Encyclop. Brit. XII. 1881, pp. 418-419.)

---- Ibn Batuta. (Ibid. pp. 607-609.)

---- Kâfiristân. (Ibid. XIII. 1881, pp. 820-823.)

---- Major James Rennell, F.R.S., of the Bengal Engineers. [Reprinted from
     the Royal Engineers' Journal], 8vo., pp. 16.

     (Dated 7th Dec. 1881.)

1881 Notice of Sir William E. Baker. (St. James' Gazette, 27th Dec.
     1881.)

---- Parallels [Matthew Arnold and de Barros]. (The Athenaeum, No. 2790,
     16th April, 1881, pp. 536.)

1882 Memoir of Gen. Sir William Erskine Baker, K.C.B., Royal Engineers
     (Bengal). Compiled by two old friends, brother officers and pupils.
     London. Printed for private circulation, 1882, 8vo., pp. 67.

     By H. Y[ule] and R. M. [Gen. R. Maclagan].

---- Etymological Notes. (The Athenaeum, No. 2837, 11th March, 1882; No.
     2840, 1st April, 1882, p. 413.)

---- Lhása. (Encyclop. Brit. XIV. 1882, pp. 496-503.)

---- Wadono. (The Athenaeum, No. 2846, 13th May, 1882, p. 602.)

---- Dr. John Brown. (The Athenaeum, No. 2847, 20th May, 1882, pp.
     635-636.)

---- A Manuscript of Marco Polo. (The Athenaeum, No. 2851, 17th June,
     1882, pp. 765-766.)

     [About Baron Nordenskiöld's Facsimile Edition.]

---- Review of Ancient India as described by Ktesias the Knidian, etc.
     By J. W. M'Crindle. (The Athenaeum, No. 2860, 19th Aug. 1882,
     pp. 237-238.)

---- The Silver Coinage of Thibet. (Review of Terrien de Lacouperie's
     Paper.) (The Academy, 19th Aug. 1882, pp 140-141.)

---- Review of The Indian Balhara and the Arabian Intercourse with
     India. By Edward Thomas. (The Athenaeum, No. 2866, 30th Sept.
     1882, pp. 428-429.)

---- The Expedition of Professor Palmer, Capt. Gill, and Lieut.
     Charrington. (Letter in The Times, 16th Oct. 1882.)

---- Obituary Notice of Dr. Arthur Burnell. (Times, 20th Oct. 1882.)

---- Capt. William Gill, R.E. [Notice of]. (The Times, 31st Oct. 1882.)

     See supra, first col. of this page. By Col. Yule. Proc. of the Royal Geographical Society, and
     Monthly Record of Geography, Nov. No. 1882, 8vo.

     Proceedings, N.S. IV. 1882, pp. 649-660. Read at the Geographical
     Section, Brit. Assoc., Southampton Meeting, augmented and revised by
     the author.

1883 Lord Lawrence. [Review of Life of Lord Lawrence. By R. Bosworth
     Smith.] (Quarterly Review, vol. 155, April, 1883, pp. 289-326.)

---- Review of Across Chrysé. By A. R. Colquhoun. (The Athenaeum, No.
     2900, 26th May, 1883, pp. 663-665.)

---- La Terra del Fuoco e Carlo Darwin. (Extract from Letter published by
     the Fanfulla, Rome 2nd June, 1883.)

---- How was the Trireme rowed? (The Academy, 6th Oct. 1883, p. 237.)

---- Across Chrysé. (The Athenaeum, No. 2922, 27th Oct. 1883.)

---- Political Fellowship in the India Council. (Letter in The Times,
     15th Dec. 1883.) [Heading was not Yule's.]

---- Maldive Islands. (Encyclop. Brit. XV. 1883, pp. 327-332.)

---- Mandeville. (Ibid. pp. 473-475.)

1884 A Sketch of the Career of Gen. John Reid Becher, C.B., Royal
     Engineers (Bengal). By an old friend and brother officer. Printed for
     private circulation, 1884, 8vo, pp. 40.

---- Rue Quills. (The Academy, No. 620, 22nd March, 1884, pp. 204-205.)
     Reprinted in present ed. of Marco Polo, vol. ii. p. 596.

---- Lord Canning. (Letter in The Times, 2nd April, 1884.)

---- Sir Bartle Frere [Letter respecting Memorial of]. (St. James'
     Gazette, 27th July, 1884.)

---- Odoric. (Encyclop. Brit. XVIII. 1884, pp. 728-729.)

---- Ormus. (Ibid. pp. 856-858.)

1885 Memorials of Gen. Sir Edward Harris Greathed, K.C.B. Compiled by the
     late Lieut.-Gen. Alex. Cunningham Robertson, C.B. Printed for private
     circulation. (With a prefatory notice of the compiler.) London,
     Harrison & Sons,... 1885, 8vo, pp. 95.

     The Prefatory Notice of Gen. A. C. Robertson is by H. Yule, June,
     1885, p. iii.-viii.

---- Anglo-Indianisms. (Letter in the St. James' Gazette, 30th July,
     1885.)

---- Obituary Notice of Col. Grant Allan, Madras Army. (From the Army and
     Navy Gazette, 22nd Aug. 1885.)

---- Shameless Advertisements. (Letter in The Times, 28th Oct. 1885.)

1886 Marco Polo. (Encyclop. Brit. XIX. 1885, pp. 404-409.)

---- Prester John. (Ibid. pp. 714-718.)

---- Brief Notice of Sir Edward Clive Bayley. Pages ix.-xiv. [Prefixed to
     The History of India as told by its own Historians: Gujarat. By the
     late Sir Edward Clive Bayley.] London, Allen, 1886, 8vo.

---- Sir George Udny Yule. In Memoriam (St. James' Gazette, 18th Jan.
     1886.)

---- Cacothanasia. [Political Verse, Signed [Greek: Maenin AEIDE]]
     (St. James' Gazette, 1st Feb. 1886.)

---- William Kay, D.D. [Notice of]. (Letter to The Guardian, 3rd Feb.
     1886.)

---- Col. George Thomson, C.B., R.E. (Royal Engineers' Journal, 1886.)

---- Col. George Thomson, C.B. [Note]. (St. James' Gazette, 16th Feb.
     1886.)

---- Hidden Virtues [A Satire on W. E. Gladstone]. (Letter to the St.
     James' Gazette, 21st March, 1886. Signed M. P. V.)

---- Burma, Past and Present. (Quart. Rev. vol. 162, Jan. and April,
     1886, pp. 210-238.)

---- Errors of Facts, in two well-known Pictures.

     (The Athenaeum, No. 3059, 12th June, 1886, p. 788.)

---- [Obituary Notice of] Lieut.-Gen. Sir Arthur Phayre, C.B., K.C.S.I.,
     G.C.M.G. (Proc. R.G.S., N.S. 1886, VIII. pp. 103-112.)

---- "Lines suggested by a Portrait in the Millais Exhibition."

     Privately printed and (though never published) widely circulated.
     These powerful verses on Gladstone are those several times referred
     to by Sir Mountstuart Grant Duff, in his published Diaries.

---- Introductory Remarks on The Rock-Cut Caves and Statues of Bamian.
     By Capt. the Hon. M. G. Talbot. (Journ. R. As. Soc. N.S. XVIII.
     1886, pp. 323-329.)

---- Opening Address. (Ibid. pp. i.-v.)

---- Opening Address. (Ibid. xix. pp. i.-iii.)

---- Hobson-Jobsoniana. By Col. H. Yule, and the late Arthur
     Coke Burnell, Ph.D., C.I.E., author of "The Elements of South Indian
     Palaeography," etc., London, John Murray, 1886. (All rights
     reserved), 8vo, p. xliii.-870. Preface, etc.

     A new edition is in preparation under the editorship of Mr. William
     Crooke (1902).

1886 John Bunyan. (Letter in St. James' Gazette, circa 31st Dec. 1886.
     Signed M. P. V.)

---- Rennell. (Encyclop. Brit. XX. 1886, pp. 398-401.)

---- Rubruquis (Ibid. XXI. 1886, pp. 46-47.)

1887 Lieut.-Gen. W. A. Crommelen, C.B., R.E. (Royal Engineers' Journal,
     1887.)

---- [Obituary Notice] Col. Sir J. U. Bateman Champain. (Times, 2nd Feb.
     1887).

---- "Pulping Public Records." (Notes and Queries, 19th March, 1887.)

---- A Filial Remonstrance (Political Verses). Signed M. P. V. (St.
     James' Gazette, 8th Aug. 1887.)

---- Memoir of Major-Gen. J. T. Boileau, R.E., F.R.S. By C. R. Low, I.N.,
     F.R.G.S. With a Preface by Col. H. Yule, C.B., London, Allen, 1887.

---- The Diary of William Hedges, Esq. (afterwards Sir William Hedges),
     during his Agency in Bengal; as well as on his voyage out and return
     overland (1681-1687). Transcribed for the Press, with Introductory
     Notes, etc., by R. Barlow, Esq., and illustrated by copious extracts
     from unpublished records, etc., by Col. H. Yule. Pub. for Hakluyt
     Society. London, 1887-1889, 3 vols. 8vo.

1888 Concerning some little known Travellers in the East. (Asiatic
     Quarterly Review, V. 1888, pp. 312-335.)

     No. I.--George Strachan.

---- Concerning some little known Travellers in the East. (Asiatic
     Quarterly Review, VI. 1888, pp. 382-398.)

     No. II.--William, Earl of Denbigh; Sir Henry Skipwith; and others.

---- Notes on the St. James's of the 6th Jan. [A Budget of Miscellaneous
     interesting criticism.] (Letter to St. James' Gazette, 9th Jan.
     1888.)

---- Deflections of the Nile. (Letter in The Times, 15th Oct. 1888.)

---- The History of the Pitt Diamond, being an excerpt from Documentary
     Contributions to a Biography of Thomas Pitt, prepared for issue [in
     Hedges' Diary] by the Hakluyt Society. London, 1888, 8vo. pp. 23.

     Fifty Copies printed for private circulation.

1889 The Remains of Pagan. By H. Yule. (Trübner's Record, 3rd ser.
     vol. i. pt. i. 1889, p. 2.)

     To introduce notes by Dr. E Forchammer.

---- A Coincident Idiom. By H. Yule. (Trübner's Record, 3rd ser. vol. i.
     pt. iii. pp. 84-85.)

---- The Indian Congress [a Disclaimer], (Letter to The Times, 1st Jan.
     1889.)

---- Arrowsmith, the Friend of Thomas Poole. (Letter in The Academy,
     9th Feb. 1889, p. 96.)

BIOGRAPHIES OF SIR HENRY YULE.

---- Colonel Sir Henry Yule, K.C.S.I., C.B., LL.D., R.E. By General Robert
     Maclagan, R.E. (Proceed. Roy. Geog. Soc. XII. 1890, pp. 108-113.)

---- Colonel Sir Henry Yule, K.C.S.I., C.B., LL.D., R.E., etc. (With a
     Portrait). By E. Delmar Morgan. (Scottish Geographical Magazine,
     VI. 1890, pp. 93-98.) Contains a very good Bibliography.

---- Col. Sir H. Yule, R.E., C.B., K.C.S.I., by Maj.-Gen. T. B. Collinson,
     R.E., Royal Engineers' Journal, March, 1890. [This is the best of
     the Notices of Yule which appeared at the time of his death.]

---- Sir Henry Yule, K.C.S.I, C.B., LL.D., R.E., by E. H. Giglioli. Roma,
     1890, ppt. 8vo, pp. 8.

     Estratto dal Bollettino della Società Geografica Italiana, Marzo,
     1890.

---- Sir Henry Yule. By J. S. C[otton]. (The Academy, 11th Jan. 1890,
     No. 923, pp. 26-27.)

---- Sir Henry Yule. (The Athenaeum, No. 3245, 4th Jan. 1900, p. 17;
     No. 3246, 11th Jan. p. 53; No. 3247, 18th Jan. p. 88.)

---- In Memoriam. Sir Henry Yule. By D. M. (The Academy, 29th March,
     1890, p. 222.)

     See end of Memoir in present work.

---- Le Colonel Sir Henry Yule. Par M. Henri Cordier. Extrait du Journal
     Asiatique. Paris, Imprimerie nationale, MDCCCXC, in-8, pp. 26.

---- The same, Bulletin de la Société de Géographie. Par M. Henri
     Cordier. 1890, 8vo, pp. 4.

     Meeting 17th Jan. 1890.

1889 Baron F. von Richthofen. (Verhandlungen der Gesellschaft für
     Erdkunde zu Berlin, xvii. 2.)

---- Colonel Sir Henry Yule, R.E., C.B., K.C.S.I. Memoir by General R.
     Maclagan, Journ. R. Asiatic Society, 1890.

---- Memoir of Colonel Sir Henry Yule, R.E., C.B., K.C.S.I., LL.D., etc.
     By Coutts Trotter. (Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh,
     1891. p. xliii. to p. lvi.)

1889 Sir Henry Yule (1820-1889). By Coutts Trotter. (Dict. of National
     Biography, lxiii. pp. 405-407.)

1903 Memoir of Colonel Sir Henry Yule, R.E., C.B., K.C.S.I., Corr. Inst.
     France, by his daughter, Amy Frances Yule, L.A.Soc. Ant. Scot., etc.
     Written for third edition of Yule's Marco Polo. Reprinted for private
     circulation only.

[1] This list is based on the excellent preliminary List compiled by E.
    Delmar Morgan, published in the Scottish Geographical Magazine, vol.
    vi., pp. 97-98, but the present compilers have much more than doubled
    the number of entries. It is, however, known to be still incomplete,
    and any one able to add to the list, will greatly oblige the compilers
    by sending additions to the Publisher.--A. F. Y.

SYNOPSIS OF CONTENTS.

MARCO POLO AND HIS BOOK.

INTRODUCTORY NOTICES.

I. OBSCURITIES IN THE HISTORY OF HIS LIFE AND BOOK. RAMUSIO'S STATEMENTS

  § 1. Obscurities, etc. 2. Ramusio his earliest Biographer; his Account
  of Polo. 3. He vindicates Polo's Geography. 4. Compares him with
  Columbus. 5. Recounts a Tradition of the Traveller's Return to Venice.
  6. Recounts Marco's Capture by the Genoese. 7. His statements about
  Marco's liberation and marriage. 8. His account of the Family Polo and
  its termination.

II. SKETCH OF THE STATE OF THE EAST AT THE TIME OF THE JOURNEYS OF THE POLO FAMILY

  § 9. State of the Levant. 10. The various Mongol Sovereignties in Asia
  and Eastern Europe. 11. China. 12. India and Indo-China.

III. THE POLO FAMILY. PERSONAL HISTORY OF THE TRAVELLERS TILL THEIR FINAL RETURN FROM THE EAST

  § 13. Alleged origin of the Polos. 14. Claims to Nobility. 15. The Elder
  Marco Polo. 16. Nicolo and Maffeo Polo commence their Travels. 17. Their
  intercourse with Kúblái Kaan. 18. Their return home, and Marco's
  appearance on the scene. 19. Second Journey of the Polo Brothers,
  accompanied by Marco. (See App. L. 1.) 20. Marco's Employment by Kúblái
  Kaan; and his Journeys. 21. Circumstances of the departure of the Polos
  from the Kaan's Court. 22. They pass by Persia to Venice. Their
  relations there.

IV. DIGRESSION CONCERNING THE MANSION OF THE POLO FAMILY AT S. GIOVANNI GRISOSTOMO

  § 23. Probable period of their establishment at S. Giovanni Grisostomo.
  24. Relics of the Casa Polo in the Corte Sabbionera. 24a. Recent
  corroboration as to traditional site of the Casa Polo.

V. DIGRESSION CONCERNING THE WAR-GALLEYS OF THE MEDITERRANEAN STATES IN THE MIDDLE AGES.

  § 25. Arrangement of the Rowers in Mediaeval Galleys; a separate Oar to
  every Man. 26. Change of System in 16th Century. 27. Some details of
  13th-Century Galleys. 28. Fighting Arrangements. 29. Crew of a Galley
  and Staff of a Fleet. 30. Music and miscellaneous particulars.

VI. THE JEALOUSIES AND NAVAL WARS OF VENICE AND GENOA. LAMBA DORIA'S EXPEDITION TO THE ADRIATIC;
BATTLE OF CURZOLA; AND IMPRISONMENT OF MARCO POLO BY THE GENOESE

  § 31. Growing Jealousies and Outbreaks between the Republics. 32. Battle
  in Bay of Ayas in 1294. 33. Lamba Doria's Expedition to the Adriatic.
  34. The Fleets come in sight of each other at Curzola. 35. The Venetians
  defeated, and Marco Polo a Prisoner. 36. Marco Polo in Prison dictates
  his Book to Rusticiano of Pisa. Release of Venetian Prisoners. 37.
  Grounds on which the story of Marco Polo's capture at Curzola rests.

VII. RUSTICIANO OR RUSTICHELLO OF PISA, MARCO POLO'S FELLOW-PRISONER AT GENOA, THE SCRIBE WHO
WROTE DOWN THE TRAVELS

  § 38. Rusticiano, perhaps a Prisoner from Meloria. 39. A Person known
  from other sources. 40. Character of his Romance Compilations.
  41. Identity of the Romance Compiler with Polo's Fellow-Prisoner.
  42. Further particulars regarding Rusticiano.

VIII. NOTICES OF MARCO POLO'S HISTORY AFTER THE TERMINATION OF HIS IMPRISONMENT AT GENOA

  § 43. Death of Marco's Father before 1300. Will of his Brother Maffeo.
  44. Documentary Notices of Polo at this time. The Sobriquet of
  Milione. 45. Polo's relations with Thibault de Cepoy. 46. His
  Marriage, and his Daughters. Marco as a Merchant. 47. His Last Will; and
  Death. 48. Place of Sepulture. Professed Portraits of Polo. 49. Further
  History of the Polo Family. 49 bis. Reliques of Marco Polo.

IX. MARCO POLO'S BOOK; AND THE LANGUAGE IN WHICH IT WAS FIRST WRITTEN

  § 50. General Statement of what the Book contains. 51. Language of the
  original Work. 52. Old French Text of the Société de Géographie.
  53. Conclusive proof that the Old French Text is the source of all the
  others. 54. Greatly diffused employment of French in that age.

X. VARIOUS TYPES OF TEXT OF MARCO POLO'S BOOK

  § 55. Four Principal Types of Text. First, that of the Geographic or
  Oldest French. 56. Second, the Remodelled French Text; followed by
  Pauthier. 57. The Bern MS. and two others form a sub-class of this type.
  58. Third, Friar Pipino's Latin. 59. The Latin of Grynaeus,
  a Translation at Fifth Hand. 60. Fourth, Ramusio's Italian.
  61. Injudicious Tamperings in Ramusio. 62. Genuine Statements peculiar
  to Ramusio. 63. Hypothesis of the Sources of the Ramusian Version. 64.
  Summary in regard to Text of Polo. 65. Notice of a curious Irish
  Version.

XI. SOME ESTIMATE OF THE CHARACTER OF POLO AND HIS BOOK

  § 66. Grounds of Polo's Pre-eminence among Mediaeval Travellers.
  67. His true claims to glory. 68. His personal attributes seen but
  dimly. 69. Absence of scientific notions. 70. Map constructed on Polo's
  data. 71. Singular omissions of Polo in regard to China; historical
  inaccuracies. 72. Was Polo's Book materially affected by the Scribe
  Rusticiano? 73. Marco's reading embraced the Alexandrian Romances.
  Examples. 74. Injustice long done to Polo. Singular Modern Example.

XII. CONTEMPORARY RECOGNITION OF POLO AND HIS BOOK.

  § 75. How far was there diffusion of his Book in his own day?
  76. Contemporary References to Polo. T. de Cepoy; Pipino; Jacopo
  d'Acqui; Giov. Villani. 77. Pietro d'Abano; Jean le Long of Ypres.
  78. Curious borrowings from Polo in the Romance of Bauduin de Sebourc.
  78 bis. Chaucer and Marco Polo.

XIII. NATURE OF POLO'S INFLUENCE ON GEOGRAPHICAL KNOWLEDGE

  § 79. Tardy operation, and causes thereof. 80. General characteristics
  of Mediaeval Cosmography. 81. Roger Bacon as a Geographer. 82. Arab
  Geography. 83. Marino Sanudo the Elder. 84. The Catalan Map of 1375, the
  most complete mediaeval embodiment of Polo's Geography. 85. Fra Mauro's
  Map. Confusions in Cartography of the 16th Century from the endeavour to
  combine new and old information. 86. Gradual disappearance of Polo's
  nomenclature. 87. Alleged introduction of Block-printed Books into
  Europe by Marco Polo in connexion with the fiction of the invention of
  Printing by Castaldi of Feltre. 88. Frequent opportunities for such
  introduction in the Age following Polo's.

XIV. EXPLANATIONS REGARDING THE BASIS ADOPTED FOR THE PRESENT TRANSLATION

  § 89. Texts followed by Marsden and by Pauthier. 90. Eclectic Formation
  of the English Text of this Translation. 91. Mode of rendering Proper
  Names.

THE BOOK OF MARCO POLO.

PROLOGUE.

PRELIMINARY ADDRESS OF RUSTICIANO OF PISA

I.--HOW THE TWO BROTHERS POLO SET FORTH FROM CONSTANTINOPLE TO TRAVERSE THE WORLD

  NOTES.--1. Chronology. 2. "The Great Sea." The Port of Soldaia.

II.--HOW THE TWO BROTHERS WENT ON BEYOND SOLDAIA

  NOTES.--1. Site and Ruins of Sarai. 2. City of Bolghar. 3. Alau Lord of
  the Levant (i.e. Hulaku). 4. Ucaca on the Volga. 5. River Tigeri.

III.--HOW THE TWO BROTHERS, AFTER CROSSING A DESERT, CAME TO THE CITY OF BOCARA, AND FELL IN
WITH CERTAIN ENVOYS THERE

  NOTES.--1. "Bocara a City of Persia." 2. The Great Kaan's Envoys.

IV.--HOW THE TWO BROTHERS TOOK THE ENVOYS' COUNSEL, AND WENT TO THE COURT OF THE GREAT KAAN

V.--HOW THE TWO BROTHERS ARRIVED AT THE COURT OF THE GREAT KAAN

VI.--HOW THE GREAT KAAN ASKED ALL ABOUT THE MANNERS OF THE CHRISTIANS, AND PARTICULARLY ABOUT
THE POPE OF ROME

  NOTE.--Apostoille. The name Tartar.

VII.--HOW THE GREAT KAAN SENT THE TWO BROTHERS AS HIS ENVOYS TO THE POPE

  NOTES.--1. The Great Kaan's Letter. 2. The Seven Arts. 3. Religious
  Indifference of the Mongol Princes.

VIII.--HOW THE GREAT KAAN GAVE THEM A TABLET OF GOLD, BEARING HIS ORDERS IN THEIR BEHALF

  NOTES.--1. The Tablet. 2. The Port of Ayas.

IX.--HOW THE TWO BROTHERS CAME TO THE CITY OF ACRE; AND THENCE TO VENICE

  NOTES.--1. Names of the deceased Pope and of the Legate. 2. Negropont.
  3. Mark's age.

X.--HOW THE TWO BROTHERS AGAIN DEPARTED FROM VENICE, ON THEIR WAY BACK TO THE GREAT KAAN, AND
TOOK WITH THEM MARK, THE SON OF MESSER NICOLO

  NOTE.--Oil from the Holy Sepulchre.

XI.--HOW THE TWO BROTHERS SET OUT FROM ACRE, AND MARK ALONG WITH THEM

  NOTE.--Pope Gregory X. and his Election.

XII.--HOW THE TWO BROTHERS PRESENTED THEMSELVES BEFORE THE NEW POPE

  NOTES.--1. William of Tripoli. 2. Powers conceded to Missionary Friars.
  3. Bundúkdár and his Invasion of Armenia; his character. 4. The Templars
  in Cilician Armenia.

XIII.--HOW MESSER NICOLO AND MESSER MAFFEO POLO, ACCOMPANIED BY MARK, TRAVELLED TO THE COURT
OF THE GREAT KAAN

  NOTE.--The City of Kemenfu, Summer Residence of Kúblái.

XIV.--HOW MESSER NICOLO AND MESSER MAFFEO POLO AND MARCO PRESENTED THEMSELVES BEFORE THE GREAT KAAN

  NOTES.--1. Verbal. 2. "Vostre Homme."

XV.--HOW THE LORD SENT MARK ON AN EMBASSY OF HIS

  NOTES.--1. The four Characters learned by Marco, what? 2. Ramusio's
  addition. 3. Nature of Marco's employment.

XVI.--HOW MARK RETURNED FROM THE MISSION WHEREON HE HAD BEEN SENT

XVII.--HOW MESSER NICOLO, MESSER MAFFEO, AND MESSER MARCO, ASKED LEAVE OF THE GREAT KAAN TO
GO THEIR WAY

  NOTES.--1. Risks to Foreigners on a change of Sovereign. 2. The Lady
  Bolgana. 3. Passage from Ramusio.

XVIII.--HOW THE TWO BROTHERS AND MESSER MARCO TOOK LEAVE OF THE GREAT KAAN, AND RETURNED TO
THEIR OWN COUNTRY

  NOTES.--1. Mongol Royal Messengers. 2. Mongol communication with the
  King of England. 3. Mediaeval Ships of China. 4. Passage from China
  to Sumatra. 5. Mortality among the party. 6. The Lady Cocachin in
  Persian History. 7. Death of the Kaan. 8. The Princess of Manzi. Little Armenia. 2. Meaning of Chasteaux. 3. Sickliness of
  Cilician Coast. 4. The phrase "fra terre."

II.--CONCERNING THE PROVINCE OF TURCOMANIA

  NOTES.--1. Brutality of the people. 2. Application of name Turcomania.
  Turcoman Hordes.

III.--DESCRIPTION OF THE GREATER HERMENIA

  NOTES.--1. Erzingan. Buckrams, what were they? 2. Erzrum. 3. Baiburt.
  4. Ararat. 5. Oil wells of Baku.

IV.--OF GEORGIANIA AND THE KINGS THEREOF

  NOTES.--1. Georgian Kings. 2. The Georgians. 3. The Iron Gates and Wall
  of Alexander. 4. Box forests. 5. Goshawks. 6. Fish Miracle. 7. Sea of
  Ghel or Ghelan. Names ending in -án. 8. Names of the Caspian, and
  navigation thereon. 9. Fish in the Caspian.

V.--OF THE KINGDOM OF MAUSUL

  NOTES.--1. Atabeks of Mosul. 2. Nestorian and Jacobite Christians.
  3. Mosolins. 4. The Kurds. 5. Mush and Mardin.

VI.--OF THE GREAT CITY OF BAUDAS, AND HOW IT WAS TAKEN

  NOTES.--1. Baudas, or Baghdad. 2. Island of Kish. 3. Basra.
  4. Baldachins and other silk textures; Animal patterns. 5, 6. Hulákú's
  Expedition. 7. The Death of the Khalíf Mosta'sim. 8. Froissart.

VII.--HOW THE CALIF OF BAUDAS TOOK COUNSEL TO SLAY ALL THE CHRISTIANS IN HIS LAND

  NOTES.--1. Chronology. 2. "Ses Regisles et ses Casses."

VIII.--HOW THE CHRISTIANS WERE IN GREAT DISMAY BECAUSE OF WHAT THE CALIF HAD SAID

  NOTE.--The word "cralantur."

IX.--HOW THE ONE-EYED COBLER WAS DESIRED TO PRAY FOR THE CHRISTIANS

X.--HOW THE PRAYER OF THE ONE-EYED COBLER CAUSED THE MOUNTAIN TO MOVE

  NOTE.--The Mountain Miracle.

XI.--OF THE NOBLE CITY OF TAURIS

  NOTES.--1. Tabriz. 2. Cremesor. 3. Traffic at Tabriz. 4. The Torizi.
  5. Character of City and People.

XII.--OF THE MONASTERY OF SAINT BARSAMO ON THE BORDERS OF TAURIS

  NOTE.--The Monastery of Barsauma.

XIII.--OF THE GREAT COUNTRY OF PERSIA; WITH SOME ACCOUNT OF THE THREE KINGS

  NOTES.--1. Kala' Atishparastán. 2. The Three Kings.

XIV.--HOW THE THREE KINGS RETURNED TO THEIR OWN COUNTRY

  NOTES.--1. The three mystic Gifts. 2. The Worshipped Fire. 3. Sávah and
  Avah. The Legend in Mas'udi. Embellishments of the Story of the Magi.

XV.--OF THE EIGHT KINGDOMS OF PERSIA, AND HOW THEY ARE NAMED

  NOTES.--1. The Eight Kingdoms. 2. Export of Horses, and Prices.
  3. Persian Brigands. 4. Persian wine.

XVI.--CONCERNING THE GREAT CITY OF YASDI

  NOTES.--1. Yezd. 2. Yezd to Kerman. The Woods spoken of.

XVII.--CONCERNING THE KINGDOM OF KERMAN

  NOTES.--1. City and Province of Kerman. 2. Turquoises. 3. Ondanique or
  Indian Steel. 4. Manufactures of Kerman. 5. Falcons.

XVIII.--OF THE CITY OF CAMADI AND ITS RUINS; ALSO TOUCHING THE CARAUNA ROBBERS

  NOTES.--1. Products of the warmer plains. 2. Humped oxen and fat-tailed
  sheep. 3. Scarani. 4. The Karaunahs and Nigudarian Bands.
  5. Canosalmi.

XIX.--OF THE DESCENT TO THE CITY OF HORMOS

  NOTES.--1. Site of Old Hormuz and Geography of the route from Kerman to
  Hormuz. 2. Dates and Fish Diet. 3. Stitched Vessels. "One rudder," why
  noticed as peculiar. 4. Great heat at Hormuz. 5. The Simúm. 6. History
  of Hormuz, and Polo's Ruomedan Acomat. 7. Second Route between Hormuz
  and Kerman.

XX.--OF THE WEARISOME AND DESERT ROAD THAT HAS NOW TO BE TRAVELLED

  NOTES.--1. Kerman to Kúbenán. 2. Desert of Lút. 3. Subterraneous Canals.

XXI.--CONCERNING THE CITY OF COBINAN AND THE THINGS THAT ARE MADE THERE

  NOTES.--1. Kuh-Banán. 2. Production of Tútíá.

XXII.--OF A CERTAIN DESERT THAT CONTINUES FOR EIGHT DAYS' JOURNEY

  NOTES.--1. Deserts of Khorasan. 2. The Arbre Sol or Arbre Sec.

XXIII.--CONCERNING THE OLD MAN OF THE MOUNTAIN

  NOTE.--The Assassins, Hashíshîn, or Muláhidah.

XXIV.--HOW THE OLD MAN USED TO TRAIN HIS ASSASSINS

  NOTES.--1. The story widely spread. Notable murders by the Sectaries.
  2. Their different branches.

XXV.--HOW THE OLD MAN CAME BY HIS END

  NOTE.--History of the apparent Destruction of the Sect by Hulákú; its
  survival to the present time. Castles of Alamut and Girdkuh.

XXVI.--CONCERNING THE CITY OF SAPURGAN

  NOTE.--Shibrgân, and the route followed. Dried Melons.

XXVII.--OF THE CITY OF BALC

  NOTES.--1. Balkh. 2. Country meant by Dogana. 3. Lions in the Oxus
  Valley.

XXVIII.--OF TAICAN, AND THE MOUNTAINS OF SALT. ALSO OF THE PROVINCE OF CASEM

  NOTES.--1. Talikan. 2. Mines of Rock-salt. 3. Ethnological
  characteristics. 4. Kishm. 5. Porcupines. 6. Cave dwellings. 7. Old and
  New Capitals of Badakhshan.

XXIX.--OF THE PROVINCE OF BADASHAN

  NOTES.--1. Dialects of Badakhshan. Alexandrian lineage of the Princes.
  2. Badakhshan and the Balas Ruby. 3. Azure Mines. 4. Horses of
  Badakhshan. 5. Naked Barley. 6. Wild sheep. 7. Scenery of Badakhshan.
  8. Repeated devastation of the Country from War. 9. Amplitude of
  feminine garments.

XXX.--OF THE PROVINCE OF PASHAI

  NOTE.--On the country intended by this name.

XXXI.--OF THE PROVINCE OF KESHIMUR

  NOTES.--1. Kashmir language. 2. Kashmir Conjurers. (See App. L. 2.)
  3. Importance of Kashmir in History of Buddhism. 4. Character of the
  People. 5. Vicissitudes of Buddhism in Kashmir. 6. Buddhist practice
  as to slaughter of animals. 7. Coral.

XXXII.--OF THE GREAT RIVER OF BADASHAN; AND PLAIN OF PAMIER

  NOTES.--1. The Upper Oxus and Wakhan. The title Nono, (See App. L.
  3.) 2. The Plateau of Pamir. (See App. L. 4 and 5.) The Great Wild
  Sheep. Fire at great altitudes. 3. Bolor.

XXXIII.--OF THE KINGDOM OF CASCAR

  NOTE.--Kashgar.

XXXIV.--OF THE GREAT CITY OF SAMARCAN

  NOTES.--1. Christians in Samarkand. 2. Chagatai's relation to Kúblái
  mis-stated. 3. The Miracle of the Stone.

XXXV.--OF THE PROVINCE OF YARCAN

  NOTE.--Yarkand. Goître prevalent there.

XXXVI.--OF A PROVINCE CALLED COTAN

  NOTES.--1. Government. 2. "Adoration of Mahommet." 3. Khotan.

XXXVII.--OF THE PROVINCE OF PEIN

  NOTES.--1. Position of Pein (App. L. 6.) 2. The Yu or Jade. 3. Temporary
  marriages.

XXXVIII.--OF THE PROVINCE OF CHARCHAN

  NOTE.--Position of Charchan and Lop.

XXXIX.--OF THE CITY OF LOP, AND THE GREAT DESERT

  NOTES.--1. Geographical discrepancy. 2. Superstitions as to Deserts:
  their wide diffusion. The Sound of Drums on certain sandy acclivities.
  3. Sha-chau to Lob-nor.

XL.--CONCERNING THE GREAT PROVINCE OF TANGUT

  NOTES.--1. Tangut. 2. Buddhism encountered here. 3. Kalmak superstition,
  the "Heaven's Ram." 4. Chinese customs described here. 5. Mongol
  disposal of the Dead. 6. Superstitious practice of avoiding to carry out
  the dead by the house-door; its wide diffusion.

XLI.--OF THE PROVINCE OF CAMUL

  NOTES.--1. Kamul. 2. Character of the people. 3. Shameless custom.
  4. Parallel.

XLII.--OF THE PROVINCE OF CHINGINTALAS

  NOTES.--1. The Country intended. 2. Ondanique. 3. Asbestos Mountain.
  4. The four elements. 5 and 6. The Story of the Salamander. Asbestos
  fabrics.

XLIII.--OF THE PROVINCE OF SUKCHUR

  NOTES.--1. Explanatory. 2. The City of Suhchau. 3. Rhubarb country.
  4. Poisonous pasture.

XLIV.--OF THE CITY OF CAMPICHU

  NOTES.--1. The City of Kanchau. 2. Recumbent Buddhas. 3. Buddhist Days
of
  Special Worship. 4. Matrimonial Customs. 5. Textual.

XLV.--OF THE CITY OF ETZINA

  NOTES.--1. Position of Yetsina. 2. Textual. 3. The Wild Ass of Mongolia.

XLVI.--OF THE CITY OF CARACORON

  NOTES.--1. Karakorum. 2. Tartar. 3. Chorcha. 4. Prester John.

XLVII.--OF CHINGHIS, AND HOW HE BECAME THE FIRST KAAN OF THE TARTARS

  NOTES.--1. Chronology. 2. Relations between Chinghiz and Aung Khan, the
  Prester John of Polo.

XLVIII.--HOW CHINGHIS MUSTERED HIS PEOPLE TO MARCH AGAINST PRESTER JOHN

XLIX.--HOW PRESTER JOHN MARCHED TO MEET CHINGHIS

  NOTES.--1. Plain of Tanduc. 2. Divination by Twigs and Arrows.

L.--THE BATTLE BETWEEN CHINGHIS KAAN AND PRESTER JOHN. DEATH OF CHINGHIS

  NOTE.--Real circumstances and date of the Death of Chinghiz.

LI.--OF THOSE WHO DID REIGN AFTER CHINGHIS KAAN, AND OF THE CUSTOMS OF THE TARTARS

  NOTES.--1. Origin of the Cambuscan of Chaucer. 2. Historical Errors.
  3. The Place of Sepulture of Chinghiz. 4. Barbarous Funeral
Superstition.

LII.--CONCERNING THE CUSTOMS OF THE TARTARS

  NOTES.--1. Tartar Huts. 2. Tartar Waggons. 3. Pharaoh's Rat. 4. Chastity
  of the Women. 5. Polygamy and Marriage Customs.

LIII.--CONCERNING THE GOD OF THE TARTARS

  NOTES.--1. The old Tartar idols. 2. Kumiz.

LIV.--CONCERNING THE TARTAR CUSTOMS OF WAR

  NOTES.--1. Tartar Arms. 2. The Decimal Division of their Troops.
  3. Textual. 4. Blood-drinking. 5. Kurút, or Tartar Curd. 6. The Mongol
  military rapidity and terrorism. 7. Corruption of their Nomade
  simplicity.

LV.--CONCERNING THE ADMINISTERING OF JUSTICE AMONG THE TARTARS

  NOTES.--1. The Cudgel. 2. Punishment of Theft. 3. Marriage of the Dead.
  4. Textual.

LVI.--SUNDRY PARTICULARS ON THE PLAIN BEYOND CARACORON

  NOTES.--1. Textual. 2. Bargu, the Mecrit, the Reindeer, and Chase of
  Water-fowl. 3. The bird Barguerlac, the Syrrhaptes. 4. Gerfalcons.

LVII.--OF THE KINGDOM OF ERGUIUL, AND PROVINCE OF SINJU

  NOTES.--1. Erguiul. 2. Siningfu. 3. The Yak. 4. The Musk Deer.
  5. Reeves's Pheasant.

LVIII.--OF THE KINGDOM OF EGRIGAIA

  NOTES.--1. Egrigaia. 2. Calachan 3. White Camels, and Camlets:
Siclatoun.

LIX.--CONCERNING THE PROVINCE OF TENDUC, AND THE DESCENDANTS OF PRESTER JOHN

  NOTES.--1. The name and place Tenduc. King George. 2. Standing Marriage
  Compact. The title Gurgán. 3. Azure. 4. The terms Argon and
  Guasmul. The Dungens. 5. The Rampart of Gog and Magog. 6. Tartary
  cloths. 7. Siuen-hwa fu.

LX.--CONCERNING THE KAAN'S PALACE OF CHAGANNOR.

  NOTES.--1. Palace. 2. The word Sesnes. 3. Chagan-nor. 4. The five
  species of Crane described by Polo. 5. The word Cator.

LXI.--OF THE CITY OF CHANDU, AND THE KAAN'S PALACE THERE

  NOTES.--1. Two Roads. 2. Chandu, properly Shangtu. 3. Leopards. 4. The
  Bamboo Palace. Uses of the Bamboo. 5. Kúblái's Annual Migration to
  Shangtu. 6. The White Horses. The Oirad Tribe. 7. The Mare's Milk
  Festival. 8. Weather Conjuring. 9. Ascription of Cannibalism to
  Tibetans, etc. 10. The term Bacsi. 11. Magical Feats ascribed to the
  Lamas. 12. Lamas. 13. Vast extent of Lama Convents. 14. Married Lamas.
  15. Bran. 16. Patarins. 17. The Ascetics called Sensin. 18. Textual.
  19. Tao-sze Idols.

BOOK SECOND.

PART I.

I.--OF CUBLAY KAAN, THE GREAT KAAN NOW REIGNING, AND OF HIS GREAT PUISSANCE

  NOTE.--Eulogies of Kúblái.

II.--CONCERNING THE REVOLT OF NAYAN, WHO WAS UNCLE TO THE GREAT KAAN CUBLAY

  NOTES.--1. Chronology. 2. Kúblái's Age. 3. His Wars. 4. Nayan and his
  true relationship to Kúblái.

III.--HOW THE GREAT KAAN MARCHED AGAINST NAYAN

  NOTE.--Addition from Ramusio.

IV.--OF THE BATTLE THAT THE GREAT KAAN FOUGHT WITH NAYAN

  NOTES.--1. The word Bretesche. 2. Explanatory. 3. The Nakkára.
  4. Parallel Passages. 5. Verbal. 6. The Story of Nayan. (See App. L.
  7.)

V.--HOW THE GREAT KAAN CAUSED NAYAN TO BE PUT TO DEATH

  NOTES.--1. The Shedding of Royal blood avoided. 2. Chorcha, Kaoli,
  Barskul, Sikintinju. 3. Jews in China.

VI.--HOW THE GREAT KAAN WENT BACK TO THE CITY OF CAMBALUC

  NOTE.--Passage from Ramusio respecting the Kaan's views of Religion.
  Remarks.

VII.--HOW THE KAAN REWARDED THE VALOUR OF HIS CAPTAINS

  NOTES.--1. Parallel from Sanang Setzen. 2. The Golden Honorary Tablets
  or Paizah of the Mongols. 3. Umbrellas. 4. The Gerfalcon Tablets.

VIII.--CONCERNING THE PERSON OF THE GREAT KAAN

  NOTES.--1. Colour of his Eyes. 2. His Wives. 3. The Kungurat Tribe.
  Competitive Examination in Beauty.

IX.--CONCERNING THE GREAT KAAN'S SONS

  NOTES.--1. Kúblái's intended Heir. 2. His other Sons.

X.--CONCERNING THE PALACE OF THE GREAT KAAN

  NOTES.--1. Palace Wall. 2. The word Tarcasci 3. Towers. 4. Arsenals of
  the Palace. 5. The Gates. 6. Various Readings. 7. Barracks. 8. Wide
  diffusion of the kind of Palace here described. 9. Parallel description.
  10. "Divine" Park. 11. Modern account of the Lake, etc. 12. "Roze de
  l'açur." 13. The Green Mount. 14. Textual. 15. Bridge.

XI.--CONCERNING THE CITY OF CAMBALUC

  NOTES.--1. Chronology, etc., of Peking. 2. The City Wall. 3. Changes in
  the Extent of the City. 4. Its ground plan. 5. Aspect. 6. Public Towers.
  7. Addition from Ramusio.

XII.--HOW THE GREAT KAAN MAINTAINS A GUARD OF TWELVE THOUSAND HORSE, WHICH ARE CALLED KESHICAN

  NOTE.--The term Quescican.

XIII.--THE FASHION OF THE GREAT KAAN'S TABLE AT HIS HIGH FEASTS

  NOTES.--1. Order of the Tables. 2. The word Vernique. 3. The Buffet of
  Liquors. 4. The superstition of the Threshold. 5. Chinese Etiquettes.
  6. Jugglers at the Banquet.

XIV.--CONCERNING THE GREAT FEAST HELD BY THE GRAND KAAN EVERY YEAR ON HIS BIRTHDAY

  NOTES.--1. The Chinese Year. 2. "Beaten Gold." 3. Textual. Festal
  changes of costume. 4. Festivals.

XV.--OF THE GREAT FESTIVAL WHICH THE KAAN HOLDS ON NEW YEAR'S DAY

  NOTES.--1. The White Month. 2. Mystic value of the number 9. 3.
  Elephants at Peking. 4. Adoration of Tablets. K'o-tow.

XVI.--CONCERNING THE TWELVE THOUSAND BARONS WHO RECEIVE ROBES OF CLOTH OF GOLD FROM THE EMPEROR
ON THE GREAT FESTIVALS, THIRTEEN CHANGES A-PIECE

  NOTES.--1. Textual. 2. The words Camut and Borgal. 3. Tame Lions.

XVII.--HOW THE GREAT KAAN ENJOINETH HIS PEOPLE TO SUPPLY HIM WITH GAME

  NOTE.--Parallel Passage.

XVIII.--OF THE LIONS AND LEOPARDS AND WOLVES THAT THE KAAN KEEPS FOR THE CHASE

  NOTES.--1. The Cheeta or Hunting Leopard. 2. Lynxes. 3. The Tiger,
   termed Lion by Polo. 4. The Búrgút Eagle.

XIX.--CONCERNING THE TWO BROTHERS WHO HAVE CHARGE OF THE KAAN'S HOUNDS

  NOTE.--The Masters of the Hounds, and their title.

XX.--HOW THE EMPEROR GOES ON A HUNTING EXPEDITION

  NOTES.--1. Direction of the Tour. 2. Hawking Establishments. 3. The word
  Toskáúl. 4. The word Bularguchi. 5. Kúblái's Litter. 6. Kachar
  Modun. 7. The Kaan's Great Tents. 8. The Sable and Ermine. 9. Pétis de
  la Croix.

XXI.--HOW THE GREAT KAAN, ON RETURNING FROM HIS HUNTING EXPEDITION, HOLDS A GREAT COURT AND
ENTERTAINMENT

  NOTE.--This chapter peculiar to the 2nd Type of MSS.

XXII.--CONCERNING THE CITY OF CAMBALUC, AND ITS GREAT TRAFFIC AND POPULATION

  NOTES.--1. Suburbs of Peking. 2. The word Fondaco.

XXIII.--[CONCERNING THE OPPRESSIONS OF ACHMATH THE BAILO, AND THE PLOT THAT WAS FORMED AGAINST HIM]

  NOTES.--1. Chapter peculiar to Ramusio. 2. Kúblái's Administration. The
  Rise of Ahmad. 3. The term Bailo. 4. The Conspiracy against Ahmad as
  related by Gaubil from the Chinese. 5. Marco's presence and upright
  conduct commemorated in the Chinese Annals. The Kaan's prejudice against
  Mahomedans.

XXIV.--HOW THE GREAT KAAN CAUSETH THE BARK OF TREES, MADE INTO SOMETHING LIKE PAPER, TO PASS
FOR MONEY OVER ALL HIS COUNTRY

  NOTE.--Chinese Paper Currency.

XXV.--CONCERNING THE TWELVE BARONS WHO ARE SET OVER ALL THE AFFAIRS OF THE GREAT KAAN

  NOTE.--The Ministers of the Mongol Dynasty. The term Sing.

XXVI.--HOW THE KAAN'S POSTS AND RUNNERS ARE SPED THROUGH MANY LANDS AND PROVINCES

  NOTES.--1. Textual. 2. The word Yam. 3. Government Hostelries.
  4. Digression from Ramusio. 5. Posts Extraordinary. 6. Discipline of the
  Posts. 7. Antiquity of Posts in China, etc.

XXVII.--HOW THE EMPEROR BESTOWS HELP ON HIS PEOPLE, WHEN THEY ARE AFFLICTED WITH DEARTH OR MURRAIN

  NOTE.--Kúblái's remissions, and justice.

XXVIII.--HOW THE GREAT KAAN CAUSES TREES TO BE PLANTED BY THE HIGHWAYS

  NOTE.--Kúblái's Avenues.

XXIX.--CONCERNING THE RICE-WINE DRUNK BY THE PEOPLE OF CATHAY

  NOTE.--Rice-wine.

XXX.--CONCERNING THE BLACK STONES THAT ARE DUG IN CATHAY, AND ARE BURNT FOR FUEL

  NOTE.--Distribution and Consumption of Coal in China.

XXXI.--HOW THE GREAT KAAN CAUSES STORES OF CORN TO BE MADE, TO HELP HIS PEOPLE WITHAL IN TIME
OF DEARTH

  NOTE.--The Chinese Public Granaries.

XXXII.--OF THE CHARITY OF THE EMPEROR TO THE POOR.

  NOTE.--Buddhist influence, and Chinese Charities.

XXXIII.--[CONCERNING THE ASTROLOGERS IN THE CITY OF CAMBALUC]

  NOTES.--1. The word Tacuin.--The Chinese Almanacs. The Observatory.
  2. The Chinese and Mongol Cycle.

XXXIV.--[CONCERNING THE RELIGION OF THE CATHAYANS; THEIR VIEWS AS TO THE SOUL; AND THEIR CUSTOMS]

  NOTES.--1. Textual. 2. Do. 3. Exceptions to the general charge of
  Irreligion brought against the Chinese. 4. Politeness. 5. Filial Piety.
  6. Pocket Spitoons.

EXPLANATORY LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS TO VOLUME I.

INSERTED PLATES AND MAPS.

Portrait of Sir HENRY YULE. From the Painting by Mr. T. B. Wirgman, in the Royal Engineers'
Mess House at Chatham.

Illuminated Title, with Medallion representing the POLOS ARRIVING AT VENICE after 26 years'
absence, and being refused admittance to the Family Mansion; as related by Ramusio, p. 4 of
Introductory Essay. Drawn by Signor QUINTO CENNI, No. 7 Via Solferino, Milan; from a Design
by the Editor.

DOORWAY of the HOUSE of MARCO POLO in the Corte Sabbionera at Venice. Woodcut from a drawing
by Signor L. ROSSO, Venice.

Corte del Milione, Venice.

Malibran Theatre, Venice.

Entrance to the Corte del Milione, Venice. From photographs taken for the present editor, by
Signor NAYA.

Figures from St. Sabba's, sent to Venice. From a photograph of Signor NAYA.

Church of SAN MATTEO, at Genoa.

Palazzo di S. Giorgio, at Genoa.

Miracle of S. Lorenzo. From the Painting by V. CARPACCIO.

Facsimile of the WILL of MARCO POLO, preserved in St. Mark's Library. Lithographed from a photograph
specially taken by Bertani at Venice.

Pavement in front of S. Lorenzo.

Mosaic Portrait of Marco Polo, at Genoa.

The Pseudo Marco Polo at Canton.

Porcelain Incense-Burner, from the Louvre.

Temple of 500 Genii, at Canton, after a drawing by FÉLIX RÉGAMEY.

Probable view of MARCO POLO'S OWN GEOGRAPHY: a Map of the World, formed as far as possible
from the Traveller's own data. Drawn by the Editor.

Part of the Catalan Map of 1375.

Marco Polo's Itineraries, No. 1. WESTERN ASIA. This includes also "Sketch showing the chief
Monarchies of Asia, in the latter part of the 13th century."

Map illustrating the geographical position of the CITY of SARAI. Plan of part of the remains
of the same city. Reduced from a Russian plan published by M. Grigorieff.

Reduced FACSIMILE of the BUDDHIST INSCRIPTION of the Mongol Era, on the Archway at KIU-YONG
KWAN in the Pass of Nan-k'au, north-west of Peking, showing the characters in use under the
Mongol Dynasty. Photogravure from the Recueil des documents de l'Epoque Mongole, by H.H. Prince
ROLAND BONAPARTE. See an Article by Mr. Wylie in the J. R. A. S. for 1870, p. 14.

Plan of AYAS, the Laias of Polo. From an Admiralty Chart. Plan of position of DILÁWAR, the
supposed site of the Dilavar of Polo. Ext. from a Survey by Lt.-Col. D. G. Robinson, R.E.

Marco Polo's Itineraries, No. II. Routes between KERMAN and HORMUZ.

Marco Polo's Itineraries, No. III. Regions on and near the UPPER OXUS.

Heading, in the old Chinese seal-character, of an INSCRIPTION on a Memorial raised by Kúblái
Kaan to a Buddhist Ecclesiastic, in the vicinity of his summer-palace at SHANGTU in Mongolia.
Reduced from a facsimile obtained on the spot by Dr. S. W. Bushell, 1872, and by him lent to
the Editor.

The CHO-KHANG. The grand Temple of Buddha at Lhasa, from The Journey to Lhasa, by SARAT CHANDRA
DAS, by kind permission of the Royal Geographical Society.

"Table d'Or de Commandement;" the PAÏZA of the MONGOLS, from a specimen found in Siberia. Reduced
to one-half the scale of the original, from an engraving in a paper by I. J. Schmidt in the
Bulletin de la Classe Historico-Philologique de l'Acad. Imp. des Sciences, St. Pétersbourg,
tom. iv. No. 9.

Second Example of a Mongol Païza with superscription in the Uighúr character, found near the
Dnieper River, 1845. From Trans. of the Oriental Section, Imp. Soc. of Archaeology of St. Petersburg,
vol. v. The Inscription on this runs: "By the strength of Eternal Heaven, and thanks to Its
Great Power, the Man who obeys not the order of Abdullah shall be guilty, shall die."

Plan of PEKING as it is, and as it was about A.D. 1290.

BANK-NOTE of the MING Dynasty, on one-half the scale of the original. Reduced from a genuine
note in the possession of the British Museum. Was brought back from Peking after the siege
of the Legations in 1900.

Mongol "Compendium Instrument."

Mongol Armillary Sphere.

Observatory Terrace.

Observatory Instruments of the Jesuits. All these from photographs kindly lent to the present
Editor by Count de Semallé.

Marco Polo's Itineraries. No. IV. EASTERN ASIA. This includes also Sketch Map of the Ruins
of SHANGTU, after Dr. BUSHELL; and Enlarged Sketch of the Passage of the Hwang-ho or Karamoran
on the road to Si-ngan fu (see vol. ii. pp. 25-27) from the data of Baron von Richthofen.

WOODCUTS PRINTED WITH THE TEXT.

INTRODUCTORY NOTICES.

A MEDIAEVAL SHIP.

COAT OF ARMS of SIR HENRY YULE.

ARMS of the POLO family, according to Priuli.

ARMS of the POLO family, according to Marco Barbaro. (See p. 7, note.)

Autograph of HETHUM or HAYTON I. King of (Cicilian) Armenia; copied from Codice Diplomatico
del Sacro Militare Ordine Gerosolemitano, I. 135. The signature is attached to a French document
without date, granting the King's Daughter "Damoiselle Femie" (Euphemia) in marriage to Sire
Julian, son of the Lady of Sayete (Sidon). The words run: Thagávor Haiwetz ("Rex Armenorum"),
followed by the King's cypher or monogram; but the initial letter is absent, probably worn
off the original document.

The PIAZZETTA at VENICE in the 14th century. From a portion of the Frontispiece Miniature of
the MS. of Marco Polo in the Bodleian. (Borrowed from the National Miscellany, published by
J. H. Parker, Oxford, for 1853-55; and see Street's Brick and Marble, etc., 1855, pp. 150-151.)
[See vol. ii. p. 529.]

Three extracts from MAPS of VENICE, showing the site of the CA' POLO at three different periods,
(1) From the great woodcut Map or View of Venice, dated 1500, and commonly called Albert Dürer's.
(2) From a Plan by Cav. Ludovico Ughi, 1729. (3) From the Modern Official Plan of the City.

Diagram of arrangement of oars in galleys.

Extract from a fresco by SPINELLO ARETINI, in the Municipal Palace at Siena, representing a
GALLEY FIGHT (perhaps imaginary) between the Venetians and the fleet of the Emperor Frederick
Barbarossa, and illustrating the arrangements of mediaeval galleys. Drawn from a very dim and
imperfect photograph, after personal study of the original, by the Editor.

Extract from a picture by DOMENICO TINTORETTO in the Ducal Palace at Venice, representing the
same GALLEY-FIGHT. After an engraving in the Theatrum Venetum.

MARCO POLO'S GALLEY going into action at CURZOLA. Drawn by Signor Q. CENNI, from a design by
the Editor.

Map to illustrate the SEA-FIGHT at CURZOLA, where Marco Polo was taken prisoner.

SEAL of the PISAN PRISONERS in Genoa, after the battle of Meloria (1284). From Manni, Osservazioni
Storiche sopra Sigilli Antichi, tom. xii. Engraved by T. ADENEY.

The Convent and CHURCH of S. LORENZO, the burial-place of Marco Polo, as it existed in the
15th century. From the Map of 1500 (see above). Engraved by the same.

Arms of the TREVISAN family, according to Priuli.

TAILED STAR near the Antarctic, as Marco Polo drew it for Pietro d'Abano. From the Conciliator
of Pietro d'Abano.

PROLOGUE.

Remains of the Castle of SOLDAIA or Sudák. After Dubois de Montpereux, Voyage autour du Caucase,
Atlas, 3d s. Pl. 64.

Ruins of BOLGHAR. After Demidoff, Voyage dans la Russie Méridionale, Pl. 75.

The GREAT KAAN delivering a GOLDEN TABLET to the two elder Polos. From a miniature in the Livre
des Merveilles du Monde (Fr. 2810) in the Library at Paris, fol. 3 verso.

Castle of AYAS. After Langlois, Voyage en Cilicie.

Plan of ACRE as it was when lost (A.D. 1291). Reduced and translated from the contemporary
plan in the Secreta Fidelium Crucis of Marino Sanudo the Elder, engraved in Bongars, Gesta
Dei per Francos, vol. ii.

Portrait of Pope GREGORY X. After J. B. de Cavaleriis Pontificum Romanorum Effigies, etc. Romae,
1580.

Ancient CHINESE WAR VESSEL. From the Chinese Encyclopaedia called San-Thsai-Thou-Hoei, in the
Paris Library.

BOOK FIRST.

Coin of King HETUM I. and Queen ISABEL of Cilician Armenia. From an original in the British
Museum. Engraved by ADENEY.

Castle of BAIBURT. After Texier, L'Arménie, Pl. 3.

Mediaeval GEORGIAN FORTRESS. From a drawing by Padre CRISTOFORO DI CASTELLI of the Theatine
Mission, made in 1634, and now in the Communal Library at Palermo. The name of the place has
been eaten away, and I have not yet been able to ascertain it.

View of DERBEND. After a cut from a drawing by M. Moynet in the Tour du Monde, vol. i.

Coin of BADRUDDÍN LOLO of Mosul (A.H. 620). After Marsden's Numismata Orientalia, No. 164.
By ADENEY.

GHÁZÁN Khan's Mosque at TABRIZ. Borrowed from Fergusson's History of Architecture.

KASHMIR SCARF with animals, etc. After photograph from the scarf in the Indian Museum.

Humped Oxen from the Assyrian Sculptures at Kouyunjik. From Rawlinson's Ancient Monarchies.

Portrait of a Hazara. From a Photograph, kindly taken for the purpose, by M.-Gen. C. P. Keyes,
C.B., Commanding the Panjáb Frontier Force.

Illustrations of the use of the DOUBLE RUDDER in the Middle Ages. 7 figures, viz., No. 1, The
Navicello of Giotto in the Porch of St. Peter's. From Eastlake's H. of Painting; Nos. 2 and
3, from Pertz, Scriptores, tom. xviii. after a Genoese Chronicle; No. 4, Sketch from fresco
of Spinello Aretini at Siena; No. 5, Seal of Port of Winchelsea, from Sussex Archaeological
Collections, vol. i. 1848; No. 6, Sculpture on Leaning Tower at Pisa, after Jal, Archéologie
Navale; No. 7, from the Monument of Peter Martyr, the persecutor of the Lombard Patarini, in
the Church of St. Eustorgius at Milan, after Le Tombe ed i Monumenti Illustri d'Italia, Mil.
1822-23.

The ARBRE SEC, and ARBRES DU SOLEIL ET DE LA LUNE. From a miniature in the Prose Romance of
Alexander, in the Brit. Museum MS. called the Shrewsbury Book (Reg. xv. e. 6).

The CHINÁR or Oriental Plane, viz., that called the Tree of Godfrey of Boulogne at Buyukdéré,
near Constantinople. Borrowed from Le Monde Végétal of Figuier.

Portrait of H. H. AGHA KHÁN MEHELÁTI, late representative of the OLD MAN of the MOUNTAIN. From
a photograph by Messrs. SHEPHERD and BOURNE.

Ancient SILVER PATERA of debased Greek Art, formerly in the possession of the Princes of BADAKHSHAN,
now in the India Museum.

Ancient BUDDHIST Temple at Pandrethan in KÁSHMIR. Borrowed from Fergusson's History of Architecture.

Horns of the OVIS POLI, or Great Sheep of Pamir. Drawn by the Editor from the specimen belonging
to the Royal Asiatic Society.

Figure of the OVIS POLI or Great Sheep of Pamir. From a drawing by Mr. Severtsof in a Russian
publication.

Head of a native of KASHGAR. After Verchaguine. From the Tour du Monde.

View of KASHGAR. From Mr. R. Shaw's Tartary.

View of SAMARKAND. From a Sketch by Mr. D. IVANOFF, engraved in a Russian Illustrated Paper
(kindly sent by Mr. I. to the editor).

Colossal Figure; BUDDHA entering NIRVANA. Sketched by the Editor at Pagán in Burma.

Great LAMA MONASTERY, viz., that at Jehol. After Staunton's Narrative of Lord Macartney's Embassy.

The Kyang, or WILD ASS of Mongolia. After a plate by Wolf in the Journal of the Royal Zoological
Society.

The Situation of Karákorum.

Entrance to the Erdeni Tso, Great Temple. From MARCEL MONNIER'S Tour d' Asie, by kind permission
of M. PLON.

Death of Chinghiz Khan. From a Miniature in the Livre des Merveilles.

Dressing up a Tent, from MARCEL MONNIER'S Tour d' Asie, by kind permission of M. PLON.

Mediaeval TARTAR HUTS and WAGGONS. Drawn by Sig. QUINTO CENNI, on a design compiled by the
Editor from the descriptions of mediaeval and later travellers.

Tartar IDOLS and KUMIS Churn. Drawn by the Editor after data in Pallas and Zaleski (Vie des
Steppes Kirghiz).

The SYRRHAPTES PALLASII; Bargherlac of Marco Polo. From a plate by Wolf in the Ibis for April,
1860.

REEVES'S PHEASANT. After an engraving in Wood's Illustrated Natural History.

The RAMPART of GOG and MAGOG. From a photograph of the Great Wall of China. Borrowed from Dr.
Rennie's Peking and the Pekingese.

A PAVILION at Yuen-Ming-Yuen, to illustrate the probable style of Kúblái Kaan's Summer Palace.
Borrowed from Michie's Siberian Overland Route.

CHINESE CONJURING Extraordinary. Extracted from an engraving in Edward Melton's Zeldzaame Reizen,
etc. Amsterdam, 1702.

A MONASTERY of LAMAS. Borrowed from the Tour du Monde.

A TIBETAN BACSI. Sketched from the life by the Editor.

BOOK SECOND.--PART FIRST.

NAKKARAS. From a Chinese original in the Lois des Empereurs Mandchous (Thai-Thsing-Hoei-Tien-Thou),
in the Paris Library.

NAKKARAS. After one of the illustrations in Blochmann's edition of the Ain-i-Akbari.

Seljukian Coin, with the LION and the SUN (A.H. 640). After Marsden's Numismata Orientalia,
No. 98. Engraved by Adeney.

Sculptured GERFALCON from the Gate of Iconium. Copied from Hammer's Falknerklee.

Portrait of the Great KAAN KÚBLÁI.

Ideal Plan of the Ancient Palaces of the Mongol Emperors at Khanbaligh, according to Dr. Bretschneider.

Palace at Khan-baligh. From the Livre des Merveilles.

The WINTER PALACE at PEKING. Borrowed from Fergusson's History of Architecture.

View of the "GREEN MOUNT." From a photograph kindly lent to the present Editor by Count de SEMALLÉ.

The Yüan ch'eng.

South GATE of the "IMPERIAL CITY" at Peking. From an original sketch belonging to the late
Dr. W. Lockhart.

The BÛGÚT EAGLE. After Atkinson's Oriental and Western Siberia.

The TENTS of the EMPEROR K'ien-lung. From a drawing in the Staunton Collection in the British
Museum.

Plain of CAMBALUC; the City in the distance; from the hills on the north-west. From a photograph.
Borrowed from Dr. Rennie's Peking.

The Great TEMPLE OF HEAVEN at Peking. From Michie's Siberian Overland Route.

MARBLE ARCHWAY erected under the MONGOL DYNASTY at Kiu-Yong Kwan in the Nan-k'au Pass, N.W.
of Peking. From a photograph in the possession of the present Editor.

[Sidenote: Obscurities of Polo's Book, and personal History.]

1. With all the intrinsic interest of Marco Polo's Book it may perhaps be doubted if it would
have continued to exercise such fascination on many minds through succesive generations were
it not for the difficult questions which it suggests. It is a great book of puzzles, whilst
our confidence in the man's veracity is such that we feel certain every puzzle has a solution.

And such difficulties have not attached merely to the identification of places, the interpretation
of outlandish terms, or the illustration of obscure customs; for strange entanglements have
perplexed also the chief circumstances of the Traveller's life and authorship. The time of
the dictation of his Book and of the execution of his Last Will have been almost the only undisputed
epochs in his biography. The year of his birth has been contested, and the date of his death
has not been recorded; the critical occasion of his capture by the Genoese, to which we seem
to owe the happy fact that he did not go down mute to the tomb of his fathers, has been made
the subject of chronological difficulties; there are in the various texts of his story variations
hard to account for; the very tongue in which it was written down has furnished a question,
solved only in our own age, and in a most unexpected manner.

[Sidenote: Ramusio, his earliest biographer. His account of Polo.]

2. The first person who attempted to gather and string the facts of Marco Polo's personal history
was his countryman, the celebrated John Baptist Ramusio. His essay abounds in what we now know
to be errors of detail, but, prepared as it was when traditions of the Traveller were still
rife in Venice, a genuine thread runs through it which could never have been spun in later
days, and its presentation seems to me an essential element in any full discourse upon the subject.

Ramusio's preface to the Book of Marco Polo, which opens the second volume of his famous Collection
of Voyages and Travels, and is addressed to his learned friend Jerome Fracastoro, after referring
to some of the most noted geographers of antiquity, proceeds:[1]--

  "Of all that I have named, Ptolemy, as the latest, possessed the
  greatest extent of knowledge. Thus, towards the North, his knowledge
  carries him beyond the Caspian, and he is aware of its being shut in all
  round like a lake,--a fact which was unknown in the days of Strabo and
  Pliny, though the Romans were already lords of the world. But though his
  knowledge extends so far, a tract of 15 degrees beyond that sea he can
  describe only as Terra Incognita; and towards the South he is fain to
  apply the same character to all beyond the Equinoxial. In these unknown
  regions, as regards the South, the first to make discoveries have been
  the Portuguese captains of our own age; but as regards the North and
  North-East the discoverer was the Magnifico Messer Marco Polo, an
  honoured nobleman of Venice, nearly 300 years since, as may be read more
  fully in his own Book. And in truth it makes one marvel to consider the
  immense extent of the journeys made, first by the Father and Uncle of
  the said Messer Marco, when they proceeded continually towards the East-
  North-East, all the way to the Court of the Great Can and the Emperor of
  the Tartars; and afterwards again by the three of them when, on their
  return homeward, they traversed the Eastern and Indian Seas. Nor is that
  all, for one marvels also how the aforesaid gentleman was able to give
  such an orderly description of all that he had seen; seeing that such an
  accomplishment was possessed by very few in his day, and he had had a
  large part of his nurture among those uncultivated Tartars, without any
  regular training in the art of composition. His Book indeed, owing to
  the endless errors and inaccuracies that had crept into it, had come for
  many years to be regarded as fabulous; and the opinion prevailed that
  the names of cities and provinces contained therein were all fictitious
  and imaginary, without any ground in fact, or were (I might rather say)
  mere dreams.

  [Sidenote: Ramusio vindicates Polo's Geography.]

  3. "Howbeit, during the last hundred years, persons acquainted with
  Persia have begun to recognise the existence of Cathay. The voyages of
  the Portuguese also towards the North-East, beyond the Golden
  Chersonese, have brought to knowledge many cities and provinces of
  India, and many islands likewise, with those very names which our Author
  applies to them; and again, on reaching the Land of China, they have
  ascertained from the people of that region (as we are told by Sign. John
  de Barros, a Portuguese gentleman, in his Geography) that Canton, one of
  the chief cities of that kingdom, is in 30-2/3° of latitude, with the
  coast running N.E. and S.W.; that after a distance of 275 leagues the
  said coast turns towards the N.W.; and that there are three provinces
  along the sea-board, Mangi, Zanton, and Quinzai, the last of which is
  the principal city and the King's Residence, standing in 46° of
  latitude. And proceeding yet further the coast attains to 50°.[2] Seeing
  then how many particulars are in our day becoming known of that part of
  the world concerning which Messer Marco has written, I have deemed it
  reasonable to publish his book, with the aid of several copies written
  (as I judge) more than 200 years ago, in a perfectly accurate form, and
  one vastly more faithful than that in which it has been heretofore read.
  And thus the world shall not lose the fruit that may be gathered from so
  much diligence and industry expended upon so honourable a branch of
  knowledge."

4. Ramusio, then, after a brief apologetic parallel of the marvels related by Polo with those
related by the Ancients and by the modern discoverers in the West, such as Columbus and Cortes,
proceeds:--

  [Sidenote: Ramusio compares Polo with Columbus.]

  And often in my own mind, comparing the land explorations of these our
  Venetian gentlemen with the sea explorations of the aforesaid Signor Don
  Christopher, I have asked myself which of the two were really the more
  marvellous. And if patriotic prejudice delude me not, methinks good
  reason might be adduced for setting the land journey above the sea
  voyage. Consider only what a height of courage was needed to undertake
  and carry through so difficult an enterprise, over a route of such
  desperate length and hardship, whereon it was sometimes necessary to
  carry food for the supply of man and beast, not for days only but for
  months together. Columbus, on the other hand, going by sea, readily
  carried with him all necessary provision; and after a voyage of some 30
  or 40 days was conveyed by the wind whither he desired to go, whilst the
  Venetians again took a whole year's time to pass all those great deserts
  and mighty rivers. Indeed that the difficulty of travelling to Cathay
  was so much greater than that of reaching the New World, and the route
  so much longer and more perilous, may be gathered from the fact that,
  since those gentlemen twice made this journey, no one from Europe has
  dared to repeat it,[3] whereas in the very year following the discovery
  of the Western Indies many ships immediately retraced the voyage
  thither, and up to the present day continue to do so, habitually and in
  countless numbers. Indeed those regions are now so well known, and so
  thronged by commerce, that the traffic between Italy, Spain, and England
  is not greater.

[Sidenote: Recounts a tradition of the travellers' return to Venice.]

5. Thus also those three gentlemen who
  had been so many years absent from their native city were recognized by
  none of their kinsfolk, who were under the firm belief that they had all
  been dead for many a year past, as indeed had been reported. Through the
  long duration and the hardships of their journeys, and through the many
  worries and anxieties that they had undergone, they were quite changed
  in aspect, and had got a certain indescribable smack of the Tartar both
  in air and accent, having indeed all but forgotten their Venetian
  tongue. Their clothes too were coarse and shabby, and of a Tartar cut.
  They proceeded on their arrival to their house in this city in the
  confine of St. John Chrysostom, where you may see it to this day. The
  house, which was in those days a very lofty and handsome palazzo, is now
  known by the name of the Corte del Millioni for a reason that I will
  tell you presently. Going thither they found it occupied by some of
  their relatives, and they had the greatest difficulty in making the
  latter understand who they should be. For these good people, seeing them
  to be in countenance so unlike what they used to be, and in dress so
  shabby, flatly refused to believe that they were those very gentlemen of
  the Ca' Polo whom they had been looking upon for ever so many years as
  among the dead.[4] So these three gentlemen,--this is a story I have
  often heard when I was a youngster from the illustrious Messer GASPARO
  MALPIERO, a gentleman of very great age, and a Senator of eminent virtue
  and integrity, whose house was on the Canal of Santa Marina, exactly at
  the corner over the mouth of the Rio di S. Giovanni Chrisostomo, and
  just midway among the buildings of the aforesaid Corte del Millioni, and
  he said he had heard the story from his own father and grandfather, and
  from other old men among the neighbours,--the three gentlemen, I say,
  devised a scheme by which they should at once bring about their
  recognition by their relatives, and secure the honourable notice of the
  whole city; and this was it:--

  "They invited a number of their kindred to an entertainment, which they
  took care to have prepared with great state and splendour in that house
  of theirs; and when the hour arrived for sitting down to table they came
  forth of their chamber all three clothed in crimson satin, fashioned in
  long robes reaching to the ground such as people in those days wore
  within doors. And when water for the hands had been served, and the
  guests were set, they took off those robes and put on others of crimson
  damask, whilst the first suits were by their orders cut up and divided
  among the servants. Then after partaking of some of the dishes they went
  out again and came back in robes of crimson velvet, and when they had
  again taken their seats, the second suits were divided as before. When
  dinner was over they did the like with the robes of velvet, after they
  had put on dresses of the ordinary fashion worn by the rest of the
  company.[5] These proceedings caused much wonder and amazement among the
  guests. But when the cloth had been drawn, and all the servants had been
  ordered to retire from the dining hall, Messer Marco, as the youngest of
  the three, rose from table, and, going into another chamber, brought
  forth the three shabby dresses of coarse stuff which they had worn when
  they first arrived. Straightway they took sharp knives and began to rip
  up some of the seams and welts, and to take out of them jewels of the
  greatest value in vast quantities, such as rubies, sapphires,
  carbuncles, diamonds and emeralds, which had all been stitched up in
  those dresses in so artful a fashion that nobody could have suspected
  the fact. For when they took leave of the Great Can they had changed all
  the wealth that he had bestowed upon them into this mass of rubies,
  emeralds, and other jewels, being well aware of the impossibility of
  carrying with them so great an amount in gold over a journey of such
  extreme length and difficulty. Now this exhibition of such a huge
  treasure of jewels and precious stones, all tumbled out upon the table,
  threw the guests into fresh amazement, insomuch that they seemed quite
  bewildered and dumbfounded. And now they recognized that in spite of all
  former doubts these were in truth those honoured and worthy gentlemen of
  the Ca' Polo that they claimed to be; and so all paid them the greatest
  honour and reverence. And as it
  happened that in the story, which he was constantly called on to repeat,
  of the magnificence of the Great Can, he would speak of his revenues as
  amounting to ten or fifteen millions of gold; and in like manner, when
  recounting other instances of great wealth in those parts, would always
  make use of the term millions, so they gave him the nickname of MESSER
  MARCO MILLIONI: a thing which I have noted also in the Public Books of
  this Republic where mention is made of him.[6] The Court of his House,
  too, at S. Giovanni Chrisostomo, has always from that time been
  popularly known as the Court of the Millioni.

  [Sidenote: Recounts Marco's capture by the Genoese.]

  6. "Not many months after the arrival of the travellers at Venice, news
  came that LAMPA DORIA, Captain of the Genoese Fleet, had advanced with
  70 galleys to the Island of Curzola, upon which orders were issued by
  the Prince of the Most Illustrious Signory for the arming of 90 galleys
  with all the expedition possible, and Messer Marco Polo for his valour
  was put in charge of one of these. So he with the others, under the
  command of the Most Illustrious MESSER ANDREA DANDOLO, Procurator of St.
  Mark's, as Captain General, a very brave and worthy gentleman, set out
  in search of the Genoese Fleet. They fought on the September feast of
  Our Lady, and, as is the common hazard of war, our fleet was beaten, and
  Polo was made prisoner. For, having pressed on in the vanguard of the
  attack, and fighting with high and worthy courage in defence of his
  country and his kindred, he did not receive due support, and being
  wounded, he was taken, along with Dandolo, and immediately put in irons
  and sent to Genoa.

  "When his rare qualities and marvellous travels became known there, the
  whole city gathered to see him and to speak with him, and he was no
  longer entreated as a prisoner but as a dear friend and honoured
  gentleman.

  "To this day the Genoese for the most part write what they have to write
  in that language, for there is no possibility of expressing their
  natural dialect with the pen.[7] Thus then it came to pass that the Book
  was put forth at first by Messer Marco in Latin; but as many copies were
  taken, and as it was rendered into our vulgar tongue, all Italy became
  filled with it, so much was this story desired and run after.

  [Sidenote: Ramusio's account of Marco's liberation and marriage.]

  7. "The captivity of Messer Marco greatly disturbed the minds of Messer
  Maffio and his father Messer Nicolo. They had decided, whilst still on
  their travels, that Marco should marry as soon as they should get to
  Venice; but now they found themselves in this unlucky pass, with so much
  wealth and nobody to inherit it. Fearing that Marco's imprisonment might
  endure for many years, or, worse still, that he might not live to quit
  it (for many assured them that numbers of Venetian prisoners had been
  kept in Genoa a score of years before obtaining liberty); seeing too no
  prospect of being able to ransom him,--a thing which they had attempted
  often and by various channels,--they took counsel together, and came to
  the conclusion that Messer Nicolo, who, old as he was, was still hale
  and vigorous, should take to himself a new wife. This he did; and at the
  end of four years he found himself the father of three sons, Stefano,
  Maffio, and Giovanni. Not many years after, Messer Marco aforesaid,
  through the great favour that he had acquired in the eyes of the first
  gentlemen of Genoa, and indeed of the whole city, was discharged from
  prison and set free. Returning home he found that his father had in the
  meantime had those three other sons. Instead of taking this amiss, wise
  and discreet man that he was, he agreed also to take a wife of his own.
  He did so accordingly, but he never had any son, only two girls, one
  called Moreta and the other Fantina.

  "When at a later date his father died, like a good and dutiful son he
  caused to be erected for him a tomb of very honourable kind for those
  days, being a great sarcophagus cut from the solid stone, which to this
  day may be seen under the portico before the Church of S. Lorenzo in
  this city, on the right hand as you enter, with an inscription denoting
  it to be the tomb of Messer Nicolo Polo of the contrada of S. Gio.
  Chrisostomo. The arms of his family consist of a Bend with three birds
  on it, and the colours, according to certain books of old histories in
  which you see all the coats of the gentlemen of this city emblazoned,
  are the field azure, the bend argent, and the three birds sable.
  These last are birds of that kind vulgarly termed Pole,[8] or, as the
  Latins call them, Gracculi.

  [Sidenote: Ramusio's account of the Family Polo and its termination.]

  8. "As regards the after duration of this noble and worthy family, I
  find that Messer Andrea Polo of San Felice had three sons, the first of
  whom was Messer Marco, the second Maffio, the third Nicolo. The two last
  were those who went to Constantinople first, and afterwards to Cathay,
  as has been seen. Messer Marco the elder being dead, the wife of Messer
  Nicolo who had been left at home with child, gave birth to a son, to
  whom she gave the name of Marco in memory of the deceased, and this is
  the Author of our Book. Of the brothers who were born from his father's
  second marriage, viz. Stephen, John, and Matthew, I do not find that any
  of them had children, except Matthew. He had five sons and one daughter
  called Maria; and she, after the death of her brothers without
  offspring, inherited in 1417 all the property of her father and her
  brothers. She was honourably married to Messer AZZO TREVISANO of the
  parish of Santo Stazio in this city, and from her sprung the fortunate
  and honoured stock of the Illustrious Messer DOMENICO TREVISANO,
  Procurator of St. Mark's, and valorous Captain General of the Sea Forces
  of the Republic, whose virtue and singular good qualities are
  represented with augmentation in the person of the Most Illustrious
  Prince Ser MARC' ANTONIO TREVISANO, his son.[9]

  "Such has been the history of this noble family of the Ca' Polo, which
  lasted as we see till the year of our Redemption 1417, in which year
  died childless Marco Polo, the last of the five sons of Maffeo, and so
  it came to an end. Such be the chances and changes of human affairs!"

[1] The Preface is dated Venice, 7th July, 1553. Fracastorius died in the
    same year, and Ramusio erected a statue of him at Padua. Ramusio
    himself died in July, 1557.

[2] The Geography of De Barros, from which this is quoted, has never been
    printed. I can find nothing corresponding to this passage in the
    Decades.

[3] A grievous error of Ramusio's.

[4] See the decorated title-page of this volume for an attempt to realise
    the scene.

[5] At first sight this fantastic tradition seems to have little
    verisimilitude; but when we regard it in the light of genuine Mongol
    custom, such as is quoted from Rubruquis, at p. 389 of this volume, we
    shall be disposed to look on the whole story with respect.

[6] This curious statement is confirmed by a passage in the records of the
    Great Council, which, on a late visit to Venice, I was enabled to
    extract, through an obliging communication from Professor Minotto.
    (See below, p. 67.)

[7] This rather preposterous skit at the Genoese dialect naturally excites
    a remonstrance from the Abate Spotorno. (Storia Letteraria della
    Liguria, II. 217.)

[8] Jackdaws, I believe, in spite of some doubt from the imbecility of
    ordinary dictionaries in such matters.

    They are under this name made the object of a similitude by Dante
    (surely a most unhappy one) in reference to the resplendent spirits
    flitting on the celestial stairs in the sphere of Saturn:--

      "E come per lo natural costume
        Le Pole insieme, al cominciar del giorno,
        Si muovono a scaldar le fredde piume:
      Poi altre vanno vià senza ritorno,
        Altre rivolgon sè, onde son mosse,
        Ed altre roteando fan soggiorno."--Parad. XXI. 34.

    There is some difference among authorities as to the details of the
    Polo blazon. According to a MS. concerning the genealogies of Venetian
    families written by Marco Barbaro in 1566, and of which there is a
    copy in the Museo Civico, the field is gules, the bend or. And
    this I have followed in the cut. But a note by S. Stefani of Venice,
    with which I have been favoured since the cut was made, informs me
    that a fine 15th-century MS. in his possession gives the field as
    argent, with no bend, and the three birds sable with beaks
    gules, disposed thus ***.

    ]

    [A] [This coat of arms is reproduced from the Genealogies of
       Priuli, Archivio di Stato, Venice.--H. C.]

[9] Marco Antonio Trevisano was elected Doge, 4th June, 1553, but died on
    the 31st of May following. We do not here notice Ramusio's numerous
    errors, which will be corrected in the sequel. The story of the travels of the Polo family opens in 1260.

[Sidenote: State of the Levant.]

Christendom had recovered from the alarm into which it had been thrown some 18 years before
when the Tartar cataclysm had threatened to engulph it. The Tartars themselves were already
becoming an object of curiosity rather than of fear, and soon became an object of hope, as
a possible help against the old Mahomedan foe. The frail Latin throne in Constantinople was
still standing, but tottering to its fall. The successors of the Crusaders still held the Coast
of Syria from Antioch to Jaffa, though a deadlier brood of enemies than they had yet encountered
was now coming to maturity in the Dynasty of the Mamelukes, which had one foot firmly planted
in Cairo, the other in Damascus. The jealousies of the commercial republics of Italy were daily
waxing greater. The position of Genoese trade on the coasts of the Aegean was greatly depressed,
through the predominance which Venice had acquired there by her part in the expulsion of the
Greek Emperors, and which won for the Doge the lofty style of Lord of Three-Eighths of the
Empire of Romania. But Genoa was biding her time for an early revenge, and year by year her
naval strength and skill were increasing. Both these republics held possessions and establishments
in the ports of Syria, which were often the scene of sanguinary conflicts between their citizens.
Alexandria was still largely frequented in the intervals of war as the great emporium of Indian
wares, but the facilities afforded by the Mongol conquerors who now held the whole tract from
the Persian Gulf to the shores of the Caspian and of the Black Sea, or nearly so, were beginning
to give a great advantage to the caravan routes which debouched at the ports of Cilician Armenia
in the Mediterranean and at Trebizond on the Euxine. Tana (or Azov) had not as yet become the
outlet of a similar traffic; the Venetians had apparently frequented to some extent the coast
of the Crimea for local trade, but their rivals appear to have been in great measure excluded
from this commerce, and the Genoese establishments which so long flourished on that coast,
are first heard of some years after a Greek dynasty was again in possession of Constantinople.[1]

[Sidenote: The various Mongol Sovereignties in Asia and Eastern Europe.]

10. The vast empire which Chinghiz had conquered still owned a nominally supreme head in the
Great Kaan,[2] but practically it was splitting up into several great monarchies under the
descendants of the four sons of Chinghiz, Juji, Chaghatai, Okkodai, and Tuli; and wars on a
vast scale were already brewing between them. Hulaku, third son of Tuli, and brother of two
Great Kaans, Mangku and Kúblái, had become practically independent as ruler of Persia, Babylonia,
Mesopotamia, and Armenia, though he and his sons, and his sons' sons, continued to stamp the
name of the Great Kaan upon their coins, and to use the Chinese seals of state which he bestowed
upon them. The Seljukian Sultans of Iconium, whose dominion bore the proud title of Rúm (Rome),
were now but the struggling bondsmen of the Ilkhans. The Armenian Hayton in his Cilician Kingdom
had pledged a more frank allegiance to the Tartar, the enemy of his Moslem enemies.

Barka, son of Juji, the first ruling prince of the House of Chinghiz to turn Mahomedan, reigned
on the steppes of the Volga, where a standing camp, which eventually became a great city under
the name of Sarai, had been established by his brother and predecessor Batu.

The House of Chaghatai had settled upon the pastures of the Ili and the valley of the Jaxartes,
and ruled the wealthy cities of Sogdiana.

Kaidu, the grandson of Okkodai who had been the successor of Chinghiz in the Kaanship, refused
to acknowledge the transfer of the supreme authority to the House of Tuli, and was through
the long life of Kúblái a thorn in his side, perpetually keeping his north-western frontier
in alarm. His immediate authority was exercised over some part of what we should now call Eastern
Turkestan and Southern Central Siberia; whilst his hordes of horsemen, force of character,
and close neighbourhood brought the Khans of Chaghatai under his influence, and they generally
acted in concert with him.

The chief throne of the Mongol Empire had just been ascended by Kúblái, the most able of its
occupants after the Founder. Before the death of his brother and predecessor Mangku, who died
in 1259 before an obscure fortress of Western China, it had been intended to remove the seat
of government from Kara Korum on the northern verge of the Mongolian Desert to the more populous
regions that had been conquered in the further East, and this step, which in the end converted
the Mongol Kaan into a Chinese Emperor,[3] was carried out by Kúblái.

[Sidenote: China.]

11. For about three centuries the Northern provinces of China had been detached from native
rule, and subject to foreign dynasties; first to the Khitan, a people from the basin of the
Sungari River, and supposed (but doubtfully) to have been akin to the Tunguses, whose rule
subsisted for 200 years, and originated the name of KHITAI, Khata, or CATHAY, by which for
nearly 1000 years China has been known to the nations of Inner Asia, and to those whose acquaintance
with it was got by that channel.[4] The Khitan, whose dynasty is known in Chinese history as
the Liao or "Iron," had been displaced in 1123 by the Chúrchés or Niu-chen, another race of
Eastern Tartary, of the same blood as the modern Manchus, whose Emperors in their brief period
of prosperity were known by the Chinese name of Tai-Kin, by the Mongol name of the Altun Kaans,
both signifying "Golden." Already in the lifetime of Chinghiz himself the northern Provinces
of China Proper, including their capital, known as Chung-tu or Yen-King, now Peking, had been
wrenched from them, and the conquest of the dynasty was completed by Chinghiz's successor Okkodai
in 1234.

Southern China still remained in the hands of the native dynasty of the Sung, who had their
capital at the great city now well known as Hang-chau fu. Their dominion was still substantially
untouched, but its subjugation was a task to which Kúblái before many years turned his attention,
and which became the most prominent event of his reign.

[Sidenote: India, and Indo-China.]

12. In India the most powerful sovereign was the Sultan of Delhi, Nassiruddin Mahmud of the
Turki House of Iltitmish;[5] but, though both Sind and Bengal acknowledged his supremacy, no
part of Peninsular India had yet been invaded, and throughout the long period of our Traveller's
residence in the East the Kings of Delhi had their hands too full, owing to the incessant incursions
of the Mongols across the Indus, to venture on extensive campaigning in the south. Hence the
Dravidian Kingdoms of Southern India were as yet untouched by foreign conquest, and the accumulated
gold of ages lay in their temples and treasuries, an easy prey for the coming invader.

In the Indo-Chinese Peninsula and the Eastern Islands a variety of kingdoms and dynasties were
expanding and contracting, of which we have at best but dim and shifting glimpses. That they
were advanced in wealth and art, far beyond what the present state of those regions would suggest,
is attested by vast and magnificent remains of Architecture, nearly all dating, so far as dates
can be ascertained, from the 12th to the 14th centuries (that epoch during which an architectural
afflatus seems to have descended on the human race), and which are found at intervals over
both the Indo-Chinese continent and the Islands, as at Pagán in Burma, at Ayuthia in Siam,
at Angkor in Kamboja, at Borobodor and Brambánan in Java. All these remains are deeply marked
by Hindu influence, and, at the same time, by strong peculiarities, both generic and individual.

[1] See Heyd, Le Colonie Commerciali degli Italiani, etc., passim.

[2] We endeavour to preserve throughout the book the distinction that was
    made in the age of the Mongol Empire between Khán and Kaán
    ([Arabic] and [Arabic] as written by Arabic and Persian authors). The
    former may be rendered Lord, and was applied generally to Tartar
    chiefs whether sovereign or not; it has since become in Persia, and
    especially in Afghanistan, a sort of "Esq.," and in India is now a
    common affix in the names of (Musulman) Hindustanis of all classes;
    in Turkey alone it has been reserved for the Sultan. Kaán, again,
    appears to be a form of Khákán, the [Greek: Chagános] of the
    Byzantine historians, and was the peculiar title of the supreme
    sovereign of the Mongols; the Mongol princes of Persia, Chaghatai,
    etc., were entitled only to the former affix (Khán), though Kaán and
    Khakán are sometimes applied to them in adulation. Polo always
    writes Kaan as applied to the Great Khan, and does not, I think, use
    Khan in any form, styling the subordinate princes by their name
    only, as Argon, Alau, etc. Ilkhan was a special title assumed by
    Huláku and his successors in Persia; it is said to be compounded from
    a word Il, signifying tribe or nation. The relation between Khán
    and Khakán seems to be probably that the latter signifies "Khán of
    Kháns" Lord of Lords. Chinghiz, it is said, did not take the higher
    title; it was first assumed by his son Okkodai. But there are doubts
    about this. (See Quatremère's Rashid, pp. 10 seqq. and Pavet de
    Courteille, Dict. Turk-Oriental.) The tendency of swelling titles is
    always to degenerate, and when the value of Khan had sunk, a new form,
    Khán-khánán, was devised at the Court of Delhi, and applied to one
    of the high officers of state.

    [Mr. Rockhill writes (Rubruck, p. 108, note): "The title Khan,
    though of very great antiquity, was only used by the Turks after A.D.
    560, at which time the use of the word Khatun came in use for the
    wives of the Khan, who himself was termed Ilkhan. The older title of
    Shan-yü did not, however, completely disappear among them, for
    Albiruni says that in his time the chief of the Ghuz Turks, or
    Turkomans, still bore the title of Jenuyeh, which Sir Henry
    Rawlinson (Proc. R. G. S., v. 15) takes to be the same word as that
    transcribed Shan-yü by the Chinese (see Ch'ien Han shu, Bk. 94,
    and Chou shu, Bk. 50, 2). Although the word Khakhan occurs in
    Menander's account of the embassy of Zemarchus, the earliest mention I
    have found of it in a Western writer is in the Chronicon of
    Albericus Trium Fontium, where (571), under the year 1239, he uses it
    in the form Cacanus"--Cf. Terrien de Lacouperie, Khan, Khakan, and
    other Tartar Titles. Lond., Dec. 1888.--H. C.]

[3] "China is a sea that salts all the rivers that flow into it."--P.
    Parrenin in Lett. Édif. XXIV. 58.

[4] E.g. the Russians still call it Khitai. The pair of names, Khitai
    and Machin, or Cathay and China, is analogous to the other pair,
    Seres and Sinae. Seres was the name of the great nation in the
    far East as known by land, Sinae as known by sea; and they were
    often supposed to be diverse, just as Cathay and China were
    afterwards.

[5] There has been much doubt about the true form of this name.
    Iltitmish is that sanctioned by Mr. Blochmann (see Proc. As. Soc.
    Bengal, 1870, p. 181).

III. THE POLO FAMILY. PERSONAL HISTORY OF THE TRAVELLERS DOWN TO THEIR FINAL RETURN FROM THE EAST.

[Sidenote: Alleged origin of the Polos.]

13. In days when History and Genealogy were allowed to draw largely on the imagination for
the origines of states and families, it was set down by one Venetian Antiquary that among the
companions of King Venetus, or of Prince Antenor of Troy, when they settled on the northern
shores of the Adriatic, there was one LUCIUS POLUS, who became the progenitor of our Traveller's
Family;[1] whilst another deduces it from PAOLO the first Doge[2] (Paulus Lucas Anafestus of
Heraclea, A.D. 696).

More trustworthy traditions, recorded among the Family Histories of Venice, but still no more
it is believed than traditions, represent the Family of Polo as having come from Sebenico in
Dalmatia, in the 11th century.[3] Before the end of the century they had taken seats in the
Great Council of the Republic; for the name of Domenico Polo is said to be subscribed to a
grant of 1094, that of Pietro Polo to an act of the time of the Doge Domenico Michiele in 1122,
and that of a Domenico Polo to an acquittance granted by the Doge Domenico Morosini and his
Council in 1153.[4]

The ascertained genealogy of the Traveller, however, begins only with his grandfather, who
lived in the early part of the 13th century.

Two branches of the Polo Family were then recognized, distinguished by the confini or Parishes
in which they lived, as Polo of S. Geremia, and Polo of S. Felice. ANDREA POLO of S. Felice
was the father of three sons, MARCO, NICOLO, and MAFFEO. And Nicolo was the Father of our Marco.

[Sidenote: Claims to be styled noble.]

14. Till quite recently it had never been precisely ascertained whether the immediate family
of our Traveller belonged to the Nobles of Venice properly so called, who had seats in the
Great Council and were enrolled in the Libro d'Oro. Ramusio indeed styles our Marco Nobile
and Magnifico, and Rusticiano, the actual scribe of the Traveller's recollections, calls him
"sajes et noble citaiens de Venece," but Ramusio's accuracy and Rusticiano's precision were
scarcely to be depended on. Very recently, however, since the subject has been discussed with
accomplished students of the Venice Archives, proofs have been found establishing Marco's personal
claim to nobility, inasmuch as both in judicial decisions and in official resolutions of the
Great Council, he is designated Nobilis Vir, a formula which would never have been used in
such documents (I am assured) had he not been technically noble.[5]

[Sidenote: Marco the Elder.]

15. Of the three sons of Andrea Polo of S. Felice, Marco seems to have been the eldest, and
Maffeo the youngest.[6] They were all engaged in commerce, and apparently in a partnership,
which to some extent held good even when the two younger had been many years absent in the
Far East.[7] Marco seems to have been established for a time at Constantinople,[8] and also
to have had a house (no doubt of business) at Soldaia, in the Crimea, where his son and daughter,
Nicolo and Maroca by name, were living in 1280. This year is the date of the Elder Marco's
Will, executed at Venice, and when he was "weighed down by bodily ailment." Whether he survived
for any length of time we do not know.

[Sidenote: Nicolo and Maffeo commence their travels.]

16. Nicolo Polo, the second of the Brothers, had two legitimate sons, MARCO, the Author of
our Book, born in 1254,[9] and MAFFEO, of whose place in the family we shall have a few words
to say presently. The story opens, as we have said, in 1260, when we find the two brothers,
Nicolo and Maffeo the Elder, at Constantinople. How long they had been absent from Venice we
are not distinctly told. Nicolo had left his wife there behind him; Maffeo apparently was a
bachelor. In the year named they started on a trading venture to the Crimea, whence a succession
of openings and chances, recounted in the Introductory chapters of Marco's work, carried them
far north along the Volga, and thence first to Bokhara, and then to the Court of the Great
Kaan Kúblái in the Far East, on or within the borders of CATHAY. That a great and civilized
country so called existed in the extremity of Asia had already been reported in Europe by the
Friars Plano Carpini (1246) and William Rubruquis (1253), who had not indeed reached its frontiers,
but had met with its people at the Court of the Great Kaan in Mongolia; whilst the latter of
the two with characteristic acumen had seen that they were identical with the Seres of classic
fame.

[Sidenote: Their intercourse with Kúblái Kaan.]

17. Kúblái had never before fallen in with European gentlemen. He was delighted with these
Venetians, listened with strong interest to all that they had to tell him of the Latin world,
and determined to send them back as his ambassadors to the Pope, accompanied by an officer
of his own Court. His letters to the Pope, as the Polos represent them, were mainly to desire
the despatch of a large body of educated missionaries to convert his people to Christianity.
It is not likely that religious motives influenced Kúblái in this, but he probably desired
religious aid in softening and civilizing his rude kinsmen of the Steppes, and judged, from
what he saw in the Venetians and heard from them, that Europe could afford such aid of a higher
quality than the degenerate Oriental Christians with whom he was familiar, or the Tibetan Lamas
on whom his patronage eventually devolved when Rome so deplorably failed to meet his advances.

[Sidenote: Their return home, and Marco's appearance on the scene.]

18. The Brothers arrived at Acre in April,[10] 1269, and found that no Pope existed, for Clement
IV. was dead the year before, and no new election had taken place. So they went home to Venice
to see how things stood there after their absence of so many years.

The wife of Nicolo was no longer among the living, but he found his son Marco a fine lad of
fifteen.

The best and most authentic MSS. tell us no more than this. But one class of copies, consisting
of the Latin version made by our Traveller's contemporary, Francesco Pipino, and of the numerous
editions based indirectly upon it, represents that Nicolo had left Venice when Marco was as
yet unborn, and consequently had never seen him till his return from the East in 1269.[11]

We have mentioned that Nicolo Polo had another legitimate son, by name Maffeo, and him we infer
to have been younger than Marco, because he is named last (Marcus et Matheus) in the Testament
of their uncle Marco the Elder. We do not know if they were by the same mother. They could
not have been so if we are right in supposing Maffeo to have been the younger, and if Pipino's
version of the history be genuine. If however we reject the latter, as I incline to do, no
ground remains for supposing that Nicolo went to the East much before we find him there viz.,
in 1260, and Maffeo may have been born of the same mother during the interval between 1254
and 1260. If on the other hand Pipino's version be held to, we must suppose that Maffeo (who
is named by his uncle in 1280, during his father's second absence in the East) was born of
a marriage contracted during Nicolo's residence at home after his first journey, a residence
which lasted from 1269 to 1271.[12]

[Sidenote: Second Journey of the Polo Brothers, accompanied by Marco.]

19. The Papal interregnum was the longest known, at least since the dark ages. Those two years
passed, and yet the Cardinals at Viterbo had come to no agreement. The brothers were unwilling
to let the Great Kaan think them faithless, and perhaps they hankered after the virgin field
of speculation that they had discovered; so they started again for the East, taking young Mark
with them. At Acre they took counsel with an eminent churchman, TEDALDO (or Tebaldo) VISCONTI,
Archdeacon of Liège, whom the Book represents to have been Legate in Syria, and who in any
case was a personage of much gravity and influence. From him they got letters to authenticate
the causes of the miscarriage of their mission, and started for the further East. But they
were still at the port of Ayas on the Gulf of Scanderoon, which was then becoming one of the
chief points of arrival and departure for the inland trade of Asia, when they were overtaken
by the news that a Pope was at last elected, and that the choice had fallen upon their friend
Archdeacon Tedaldo. They immediately returned to Acre, and at last were able to execute the
Kaan's commission, and to obtain a reply. But instead of the hundred able teachers of science
and religion whom Kúblái is said to have asked for, the new Pope, Gregory X., could supply
but two Dominicans; and these lost heart and drew back when they had barely taken the first
step of the journey.

Judging from certain indications we conceive it probable that the three Venetians, whose second
start from Acre took place about November 1271, proceeded by Ayas and Sivas, and then by Mardin,
Mosul, and Baghdad, to Hormuz at the mouth of the Persian Gulf, with the view of going on by
sea, but that some obstacle arose which compelled them to abandon this project and turn north
again from Hormuz.[13] They then traversed successively Kerman and Khorasan, Balkh and Badakhshan,
whence they ascended the Panja or upper Oxus to the Plateau of Pamir, a route not known to
have been since followed by any European traveller except Benedict Goës, till the spirited
expedition of Lieutenant John Wood of the Indian Navy in 1838.[14] Crossing the Pamir highlands
the travellers descended upon Kashgar, whence they proceeded by Yarkand and Khotan, and the
vicinity of Lake Lob, and eventually across the Great Gobi Desert to Tangut, the name then
applied by Mongols and Persians to territory at the extreme North-west of China, both within
and without the Wall. Skirting the northern frontier of China they at last reached the presence
of the Kaan, who was at his usual summer retreat at Kai-ping fu, near the base of the Khingan
Mountains, and nearly 100 miles north of the Great Wall at Kalgan. If there be no mistake in
the time (three years and a half) ascribed to this journey in all the existing texts, the travellers
did not reach the Court till about May of 1275.[15]

[Sidenote: Marco's employment by Kúblái Kaan; and his journeys.]

20. Kúblái received the Venetians with great cordiality, and took kindly to young Mark, who
must have been by this time one-and-twenty. The Joenne Bacheler, as the story calls him, applied
himself to the acquisition of the languages and written characters in chief use among the multifarious
nationalities included in the Kaan's Court and administration; and Kúblái after a time, seeing
his discretion and ability, began to employ him in the public service. Profiting by these observations,
he took care to store his memory or his note-books with all curious facts that were likely
to interest Kúblái, and related them with vivacity on his return to Court. This first journey,
which led him through a region which is still very nearly a terra incognita, and in which there
existed and still exists, among the deep valleys of the Great Rivers flowing down from Eastern
Tibet, and in the rugged mountain ranges bordering Yun-nan and Kwei-chau, a vast Ethnological
Garden, as it were, of tribes of various race and in every stage of uncivilisation, afforded
him an acquaintance with many strange products and eccentric traits of manners, wherewith to
delight the Emperor.

Mark rose rapidly in favour, and often served Kúblái again on distant missions, as well as
in domestic administration, but we gather few details as to his employments. At one time we
know that he held for three years the government of the great city of Yang-chau, though we
need not try to magnify this office, as some commentators have done, into the viceroyalty of
one of the great provinces of the Empire; on another occasion we find him with his uncle Maffeo,
passing a year at Kan-chau in Tangut; again, it would appear, visiting Kara Korum, the old
capital of the Kaans in Mongolia; on another occasion in Champa or Southern Cochin China; and
again, or perhaps as a part of the last expedition, on a mission to the Indian Seas, when he
appears to have visited several of the southern states of India. We are not informed whether
his father and uncle shared in such employments;[18] and the story of their services rendered
to the Kaan in promoting the capture of the city of Siang-yang, by the construction of powerful
engines of attack, is too much perplexed by difficulties of chronology to be cited with confidence.
Anyhow they were gathering wealth, and after years of exile they began to dread what might
follow old Kúblái's death, and longed to carry their gear and their own grey heads safe home
to the Lagoons. The aged Emperor growled refusal to all their hints, and but for a happy chance
we should have lost our mediaeval Herodotus.

[Sidenote: Circumstances of the Departure of the Polos from the Kaan's Court.]

21. Arghún Khan of Persia, Kúblái's great-nephew, had in 1286 lost his favourite wife the Khatun
Bulughán; and, mourning her sorely, took steps to fulfil her dying injunction that her place
should be filled only by a lady of her own kin, the Mongol Tribe of Bayaut. Ambassadors were
despatched to the Court of Kaan-baligh to seek such a bride. The message was courteously received,
and the choice fell on the lady Kokáchin, a maiden of 17, "moult bele dame et avenant." The
overland road from Peking to Tabriz was not only of portentous length for such a tender charge,
but was imperilled by war, so the envoys desired to return by sea. Tartars in general were
strangers to all navigation; and the envoys, much taken with the Venetians, and eager to profit
by their experience, especially as Marco had just then returned from his Indian mission, begged
the Kaan as a favour to send the three Firinghis in their company. He consented with reluctance,
but, having done so, fitted the party out nobly for the voyage, charging the Polos with friendly
messages for the potentates of Europe, including the King of England. They appear to have sailed
from the port of Zayton (as the Westerns called T'swan-chau or Chin-cheu in Fo-kien) in the
beginning of 1292. It was an ill-starred voyage, involving long detentions on the coast of
Sumatra, and in the South of India, to which, however, we are indebted for some of the best
chapters in the book; and two years or upwards passed before they arrived at their destination
in Persia.[19] The three hardy Venetians survived all perils, and so did the lady, who had
come to look on them with filial regard; but two of the three envoys, and a vast proportion
of the suite, had perished by the way.[20] Arghún Khan too had been dead even before they quitted
China;[21] his brother Kaikhátú reigned in his stead; and his son Gházán succeeded to the lady's
hand. We are told by one who knew both the princes well that Arghún was one of the handsomest
men of his time, whilst Gházán was, among all his host, one of the most insignificant in appearance.
But in other respects the lady's change was for the better. Gházán had some of the highest
qualities of a soldier, a legislator and a king, adorned by many and varied accomplishments;
though his reign was too short for the full development of his fame.

[Sidenote: They pass by Persia to Venice. Their relations there.]

22. The princess, whose enjoyment of her royalty was brief, wept as she took leave of the kindly
and noble Venetians. They went on to Tabriz, and after a long halt there proceeded homewards,
reaching Venice, according to all the texts some time in 1295.[22]

We have related Ramusio's interesting tradition, like a bit out of the Arabian Nights, of the
reception that the Travellers met with from their relations, and of the means that they took
to establish their position with those relations, and with Venetian society.[23] Of the relations,
Marco the Elder had probably been long dead;[24] Maffeo the brother of our Marco was alive,
and we hear also of a cousin (consanguineus) Felice Polo, and his wife Fiordelisa, without
being able to fix their precise position in the family. We know also that Nicolo, who died
before the end of the century, left behind him two illegitimate sons, Stefano and Zannino.
It is not unlikely that these were born from some connection entered into during the long residence
of the Polos in Cathay, though naturally their presence in the travelling company is not commemorated
in Marco's Prologue.[25]

[1] Zurla, I. 42, quoting a MS. entitled Petrus Ciera S. R. E. Card, de
    Origine Venetorum et de Civitate Venetiarum. Cicogna says he could
    not find this MS. as it had been carried to England; and then breaks
    into a diatribe against foreigners who purchase and carry away such
    treasures, "not to make a serious study of them, but for mere
    vain-glory ... or in order to write books contradicting the very MSS.
    that they have bought, and with that dishonesty and untruth which are
    so notorious!" (IV. 227.)

[2] Campidoglio Veneto of Cappellari (MS. in St. Mark's Lib.), quoting
    "the Venetian Annals of Giulio Faroldi."

[3] The Genealogies of Marco Barbaro specify 1033 as the year of the
    migration to Venice; on what authority does not appear (MS. copy in
    Museo Civico at Venice).

[4] Cappellari, u.s., and Barbaro. In the same century we find (1125,
    1195) indications of Polos at Torcello, and of others (1160) at
    Equileo, and (1179, 1206) Lido Maggiore; in 1154 a Marco Polo of
    Rialto. Contemporary with these is a family of Polos (1139, 1183,
    1193, 1201) at Chioggia (Documents and Lists of Documents from
    various Archives at Venice).

[5] See Appendix C, Nos. 4, 5, and 16. It was supposed that an autograph
    of Marco as member of the Great Council had been discovered, but this
    proves to be a mistake, as will be explained further on (see p. 74,
    note). In those days the demarcation between Patrician and
    non-Patrician at Venice, where all classes shared in commerce, all
    were (generally speaking) of one race, and where there were neither
    castles, domains, nor trains of horsemen, formed no wide gulf. Still
    it is interesting to establish the verity of the old tradition of
    Marco's technical nobility.

[6] Marco's seniority rests only on the assertion of Ramusio, who also
    calls Maffeo older than Nicolo. But in Marco the Elder's Will these
    two are always (3 times) specified as "Nicolaus et Matheus."

[7] This seems implied in the Elder Marco's Will (1280): "Item de bonis
    quae me habere contingunt de fraternâ Compagniâ a suprascriptis
    Nicolao et Matheo Paulo," etc.

[8] In his Will he terms himself "Ego Marcus Polo quondam de
    Constantinopoli."

[9] There is no real ground for doubt as to this. All the extant MSS.
    agree in making Marco fifteen years old when his father returned to
    Venice in 1269.

[10] Baldelli and Lazari say that the Bern MS. specifies 30th April; but
    this is a mistake.

[11] Pipino's version runs: "Invenit Dominus Nicolaus Paulus uxorem suam
    esse de functam, quae in recessu suo fuit praegnans. Invenitque
    filium, Marcum nomine, qui jam annos xv. habebat aetatis, qui post
    discessum ipsius de Venetiis natus fuerat de uxore sua praefatâ." To
    this Ramusio adds the further particular that the mother died in
    giving birth to Mark.

    The interpolation is older even than Pipino's version, for we find in
    the rude Latin published by the Société de Géographie "quam cum
    Venetiis primo recessit praegnantem dimiserat." But the statement is
    certainly an interpolation, for it does not exist in any of the
    older texts; nor have we any good reason for believing that it was an
    authorised interpolation. I suspect it to have been introduced to
    harmonise with an erroneous date for the commencement of the travels
    of the two brothers.

    Lazari prints: "Messer Nicolò trovò che la sua donna era morta, e
    n'era rimasto un fanciullo di dodici anni per nome Marco, che il
    padre non avea veduto mai, perchè non era ancor nato quando egli
    partì." These words have no equivalent in the French Texts, but are
    taken from one of the Italian MSS. in the Magliabecchian Library, and
    are I suspect also interpolated. The dodici is pure error (see p. 21
    infra).

[12] The last view is in substance, I find, suggested by Cicogna (ii.
    389).

    The matter is of some interest, because in the Will of the younger
    Maffeo, which is extant, he makes a bequest to his uncle (Avunculus)
    Jordan Trevisan. This seems an indication that his mother's name may
    have been Trevisan. The same Maffeo had a daughter Fiordelisa. And
    Marco the Elder, in his Will (1280), appoints as his executors, during
    the absence of his brothers, the same Jordan Trevisan and his own
    sister-in-law Fiordelisa ("Jordanum Trivisanum de confinio S.
    Antonini: et Flordelisam cognatam meam"). Hence I conjecture that this
    cognata Fiordelisa (Trevisan?) was the wife of the absent Nicolo,
    and the mother of Maffeo. In that case of course Maffeo and Marco were
    the sons of different mothers. With reference to the above suggestion
    of Nicolo's second marriage in 1269 there is a curious variation in a
    fragmentary Venetian Polo in the Barberini Library at Rome. It runs,
    in the passage corresponding to the latter part of ch. ix. of
    Prologue: "i qual do fratelli steteno do anni in Veniezia aspettando
    la elletion de nuovo Papa, nel qual tempo Mess. Nicolo si tolse moier
    et si la lasò graveda." I believe, however, that it is only a
    careless misrendering of Pipino's statement about Marco's birth.

[13] [Major Sykes, in his remarkable book on Persia, ch. xxiii. pp.
    262-263, does not share Sir Henry Yule's opinion regarding this
    itinerary, and he writes:

    "To return to our travellers, who started on their second great
    journey in 1271, Sir Henry Yule, in his introduction,[A] makes them
    travel via Sivas to Mosul and Baghdád, and thence by sea to Hormuz,
    and this is the itinerary shown on his sketch map. This view I am
    unwilling to accept for more than one reason. In the first place, if,
    with Colonel Yule, we suppose that Ser Marco visited Baghdád, is it
    not unlikely that he should term the River Volga the Tigris,[B] and
    yet leave the river of Baghdád nameless? It may be urged that Marco
    believed the legend of the reappearance of the Volga in Kurdistán, but
    yet, if the text be read with care and the character of the traveller
    be taken into account, this error is scarcely explicable in any other
    way, than that he was never there.

    "Again, he gives no description of the striking buildings of Baudas,
    as he terms it, but this is nothing to the inaccuracy of his supposed
    onward journey. To quote the text, 'A very great river flows through
    the city,... and merchants descend some eighteen days from Baudas, and
    then come to a certain city called Kisi,[C] where they enter the Sea
    of India.' Surely Marco, had he travelled down the Persian Gulf, would
    never have given this description of the route, which is so untrue as
    to point to the conclusion that it was vague information given by some
    merchant whom he met in the course of his wanderings.

    "Finally, apart from the fact that Baghdád, since its fall, was rather
    off the main caravan route, Marco so evidently travels east from Yezd
    and thence south to Hormuz, that unless his journey be described
    backwards, which is highly improbable, it is only possible to arrive
    at one conclusion, namely, that the Venetians entered Persia near
    Tabriz, and travelled to Sultania, Kashán, and Yezd. Thence they
    proceeded to Kermán and Hormuz, where, probably fearing the sea
    voyage, owing to the manifest unseaworthiness of the ships, which he
    describes as 'wretched affairs,' the Khorasán route was finally
    adopted. Hormuz, in this case, was not visited again until the return
    from China, when it seems probable that the same route was retraced to
    Tabriz, where their charge, the Lady Kokachin, 'moult bele dame et
    avenant,' was married to Gházan Khán, the son of her fiancé Arghun. It
    remains to add that Sir Henry Yule may have finally accepted this view
    in part, as in the plate showing Probable View of Marco Polo's own
    Geography,[D] the itinerary is not shown as running to Baghdád."

    I may be allowed to answer that when Marco Polo started for the
    East, Baghdád was not rather off the main caravan route. The fall of
    Baghdád was not immediately followed by its decay, and we have proof
    of its prosperity at the beginning of the 14th century. Tauris had not
    yet the importance it had reached when the Polos visited it on their
    return journey. We have the will of the Venetian Pietro Viglioni,
    dated from Tauris, 10th December, 1264 (Archiv. Veneto, xxvi. 161-
    165), which shows that he was but a pioneer. It was only under Arghún
    Khan (1284-1291) that Tauris became the great market for foreign,
    especially Genoese, merchants, as Marco Polo remarks on his return
    journey; with Gházán and the new city built by that prince, Tauris
    reached a very high degree of prosperity, and was then really the
    chief emporium on the route from Europe to Persia and the far East.

      [B] Vide Yule, vol. i. p. 5. It is noticeable that John of Pian
          de Carpine, who travelled 1245 to 1247, names it correctly.

      [C] The modern name is Keis, an island lying off Linga.

      [D] Vol. i. p. 110 (Introduction).

[14] It is stated by Neumann that this most estimable traveller once
    intended to have devoted a special work to the elucidation of Marco's
    chapters on the Oxus Provinces, and it is much to be regretted that
    this intention was never fulfilled. Pamir has been explored more
    extensively and deliberately, whilst this book was going through the
    press, by Colonel Gordon, and other officers, detached from Sir
    Douglas Forsyth's Mission. [We have made use of the information given
    by these officers and by more recent travellers.--H. C.]

[15] Half a year earlier, if we suppose the three years and a half to
    count from Venice rather than Acre. But at that season (November)
    Kúblái would not have been at Kai-ping fu (otherwise Shang-tu).

[16] Pauthier, p. ix., and p. 361.

[17] That this was Marco's first mission is positively stated in the
    Ramusian edition; and though this may be only an editor's gloss it
    seems well-founded. The French texts say only that the Great Kaan,
    "l'envoia en un message en une terre ou bien avoit vj. mois de
    chemin." The traveller's actual Itinerary affords to Vochan
    (Yung-ch'ang), on the frontier of Burma, 147 days' journey, which with
    halts might well be reckoned six months in round estimate. And we are
    enabled by various circumstances to fix the date of the Yun-nan
    journey between 1277 and 1280. The former limit is determined by
    Polo's account of the battle with the Burmese, near Vochan, which took
    place according to the Chinese Annals in 1277. The latter is fixed by
    his mention of Kúblái's son, Mangalai, as governing at Kenjanfu
    (Si-ngan fu), a prince who died in 1280. (See vol. ii. pp. 24, 31,
    also 64, 80.)

[18] Excepting in the doubtful case of Kan-chau, where one reading says
    that the three Polos were there on business of their own not necessary
    to mention, and another, that only Maffeo and Marco were there, "en
    légation."

[19] Persian history seems to fix the arrival of the lady Kokáchin in the
    North of Persia to the winter of 1293-1294. The voyage to Sumatra
    occupied three months (vol. i. p. 34); they were five months detained
    there (ii. 292); and the remainder of the voyage extended to eighteen
    more (i. 35),--twenty-six months in all.

    The data are too slight for unexceptional precision, but the following
    adjustment will fairly meet the facts. Say that they sailed from
    Fo-kien in January 1292. In April they would be in Sumatra, and find
    the S.W. Monsoon too near to admit of their crossing the Bay of
    Bengal. They remain in port till September (five months), and then
    proceed, touching (perhaps) at Ceylon, at Kayal, and at several ports
    of Western India. In one of these, e.g. Kayal or Tana, they pass the
    S.W. Monsoon of 1293, and then proceed to the Gulf. They reach Hormuz
    in the winter, and the camp of the Persian Prince Gházán, the son of
    Arghún, in March, twenty-six months from their departure.

    I have been unable to trace Hammer's authority (not Wassáf I find),
    which perhaps gives the precise date of the Lady's arrival in Persia
    (see infra, p. 38). From his narrative, however (Gesch. der Ilchane,
    ii. 20), March 1294 is perhaps too late a date. But the five months'
    stoppage in Sumatra must have been in the S.W. Monsoon; and if the
    arrival in Persia is put earlier, Polo's numbers can scarcely be held
    to. Or, the eighteen months mentioned at vol. i. p. 35, must include
    the five months' stoppage. We may then suppose that they reached
    Hormuz about November 1293, and Gházán's camp a month or two later.

[20] The French text which forms the basis of my translation says that,
    excluding mariners, there were 600 souls, out of whom only 8 survived.
    The older MS. which I quote as G. T., makes the number 18, a fact that
    I had overlooked till the sheets were printed off.

[21] Died 12th March, 1291.

[22] All dates are found so corrupt that even in this one I do not feel
    absolute confidence. Marco in dictating the book is aware that Gházán
    had attained the throne of Persia (see vol. i. p. 36, and ii. pp. 50
    and 477), an event which did not occur till October, 1295. The date
    assigned to it, however, by Marco (ii. 477) is 1294, or the year
    before that assigned to the return home.

    The travellers may have stopped some time at Constantinople on their
    way, or even may have visited the northern shores of the Black Sea;
    otherwise, indeed, how did Marco acquire his knowledge of that Sea
    (ii. 486-488) and of events in Kipchak (ii. 496 seqq.)? If 1296 was
    the date of return, moreover, the six-and-twenty years assigned in the
    preamble as the period of Marco's absence (p. 2) would be nearer
    accuracy. For he left Venice in the spring or summer of 1271.

[23] Marco Barbaro, in his account of the Polo family, tells what seems to
    be the same tradition in a different and more mythical version:--

    "From ear to ear the story has past till it reached mine, that when
    the three Kinsmen arrived at their home they were dressed in the most
    shabby and sordid manner, insomuch that the wife of one of them gave
    away to a beggar that came to the door one of those garments of his,
    all torn, patched, and dirty as it was. The next day he asked his wife
    for that mantle of his, in order to put away the jewels that were sewn
    up in it; but she told him she had given it away to a poor man, whom
    she did not know. Now, the stratagem he employed to recover it was
    this. He went to the Bridge of Rialto, and stood there turning a
    wheel, to no apparent purpose, but as if he were a madman, and to all
    those who crowded round to see what prank was this, and asked him why
    he did it, he answered: 'He'll come if God pleases.' So after two or
    three days he recognised his old coat on the back of one of those who
    came to stare at his mad proceedings, and got it back again. Then,
    indeed, he was judged to be quite the reverse of a madman! And from
    those jewels he built in the contrada of S. Giovanni Grisostomo a very
    fine palace for those days; and the family got among the vulgar the
    name of the Ca' Million, because the report was that they had jewels
    to the value of a million of ducats; and the palace has kept that name
    to the present day--viz., 1566." (Genealogies, MS. copy in Museo
    Civico; quoted also by Baldelli Boni, Vita, p. xxxi.)

[24] The Will of the Elder Marco, to which we have several times referred,
    is dated at Rialto 5th August, 1280.

    The testator describes himself as formerly of Constantinople, but now
    dwelling in the confine of S. Severo.

    His brothers Nicolo and Maffeo, if at Venice, are to be his sole
    trustees and executors, but in case of their continued absence he
    nominates Jordano Trevisano, and his sister-in-law Fiordelisa of
    the confine of S. Severo.

    The proper tithe to be paid. All his clothes and furniture to be sold,
    and from the proceeds his funeral to be defrayed, and the balance to
    purchase masses for his soul at the discretion of his trustees.

    Particulars of money due to him from his partnership with Donato
    Grasso, now of Justinople (Capo d'Istria), 1200 lire in all.
    (Fifty-two lire due by said partnership to Angelo di Tumba of S.
    Severo.)

    The above money bequeathed to his son Nicolo, living at Soldachia,
    or failing him, to his beloved brothers Nicolo and Maffeo. Failing
    them, to the sons of his said brothers (sic) Marco and Maffeo.
    Failing them, to be spent for the good of his soul at the discretion
    of his trustees.

    To his son Nicolo he bequeaths a silver-wrought girdle of vermilion
    silk, two silver spoons, a silver cup without cover (or saucer? sine
    cembalo), his desk, two pairs of sheets, a velvet quilt, a
    counterpane, a feather-bed--all on the same conditions as above, and
    to remain with the trustees till his son returns to Venice.

    Meanwhile the trustees are to invest the money at his son's risk and
    benefit, but only here in Venice (investiant seu investire,
    faciant).

    From the proceeds to come in from his partnership with his brothers
    Nicolo and Maffeo, he bequeaths 200 lire to his daughter Maroca.

    From same source 100 lire to his natural son Antony.

    Has in his desk (capsella) two hyperperae (Byzantine gold coins),
    and three golden florins, which he bequeaths to the sister-in-law
    Fiordelisa.

    Gives freedom to all his slaves and handmaidens.

    Leaves his house in Soldachia to the Minor Friars of that place,
    reserving life-occupancy to his son Nicolo and daughter Maroca.

    The rest of his goods to his son Nicolo.

[25] The terms in which the younger Maffeo mentions these half-brothers in
    his Will (1300) seem to indicate that they were still young.

IV. DIGRESSION CONCERNING THE MANSION OF THE POLO FAMILY AT VENICE.

[Sidenote: Probable period of their establishment at S. Giovanni Grisostomo.]

23. We have seen that Ramusio places the scene of the story recently alluded to at the mansion
in the parish of S. Giovanni Grisostomo, the court of which was known in his time as the Corte
del Millioni; and indeed he speaks of the Travellers as at once on their arrival resorting
to that mansion as their family residence. Ramusio's details have so often proved erroneous
that I should not be surprised if this also should be a mistake. At least we find (so far as
I can learn) no previous intimation that the family were connected with that locality. The
grandfather Andrea is styled of San Felice. The will of Maffeo Polo the younger, made in 1300,
which we shall give hereafter in abstract, appears to be the first document that connects the
family with S. Giovanni Grisostomo. It indeed styles the testator's father "the late Nicolo
Paulo of the confine of St. John Chrysostom," but that only shows what is not disputed, that
the Travellers after their return from the East settled in this locality. And the same will
appears to indicate a surviving connexion with S. Felice, for the priests and clerks who drew
it up and witness it are all of the church of S. Felice, and it is to the parson of S. Felice
and his successor that Maffeo bequeaths an annuity to procure their prayers for the souls of
his father, his mother, and himself, through after the successor the annuity is to pass on
the same condition to the senior priest of S. Giovanni Grisostomo. Marco Polo the Elder is
in his will described as of S. Severo, as is also his sister-in-law Fiordelisa, and the document
contains no reference to S. Giovanni. On the whole therefore it seems probable that the Palazzo
in the latter parish was purchased by the Travellers after their return from the East.[1]

[Sidenote: Relic of the Casa Polo in the Corte Sabbionera.]

24. The Court which was known in the 16th century as the Corte del Millioni has been generally
understood to be that now known as the Corte Sabbionera, and here is still pointed out a relic
of Marco Polo's mansion. [Indeed it is called now (1899) Corte del Milione; see p. 30.--H. C.]

M. Pauthier's edition is embellished with a good engraving which purports to represent the
House of Marco Polo. But he has been misled. His engraving in fact exhibits, at least as the
prominent feature, an embellished representation of a small house which exists on the west
side of the Sabbionera, and which had at one time perhaps that pointed style of architecture
which his engraving shows, though its present decoration is paltry and unreal. But it is on
the north side of the Court, and on the foundations now occupied by the Malibran theatre, that
Venetian tradition and the investigations of Venetian antiquaries concur in indicating the
site of the Casa Polo. At the end of the 16th century a great fire destroyed the Palazzo,[2]
and under the description of "an old mansion ruined from the foundation" it passed into the
hands of one Stefano Vecchia, who sold it in 1678 to Giovanni Carlo Grimani. He built on the
site of the ruins a theatre which was in its day one of the largest in Italy, and was called
the Theatre of S. Giovanni Grisostomo; afterwards the Teatro Emeronitio. When modernized in
our own day the proprietors gave it the name of Malibran, in honour of that famous singer,
and this it still bears.[3]

[In 1881, the year of the Venice International Geographical Congress, a Tablet was put up on
the Theatre with the following inscription:--

             QVI FURONO LE CASE
                     DI
                 MARCO POLO
CHE VIAGGIÒ LE PIÙ LONTANE REGIONI DELL' ASIA
               E LE DESCRISSE

           PER DECRETO DEL COMUNE
                 MDCCCLXXXI].

There is still to be seen on the north side of the Court an arched doorway in Italo-Byzantine
style, richly sculptured with scrolls, disks, and symbolical animals, and on the wall above
the doorway is a cross similarly ornamented.[4] The style and the decorations are those which
were usual in Venice in the 13th century. The arch opens into a passage from which a similar
doorway at the other end, also retaining some scantier relics of decoration, leads to the entrance
of the Malibran Theatre. Over the archway in the Corte Sabbionera the building rises into a
kind of tower. This, as well as the sculptured arches and cross, Signor Casoni, who gave a
good deal of consideration to the subject, believed to be a relic of the old Polo House. But
the tower (which Pauthier's view does show) is now entirely modernized.[5]

Other remains of Byzantine sculpture, which are probably fragments of the decoration of the
same mansion, are found imbedded in the walls of neighbouring houses.[6] It is impossible to
determine anything further as to the form or extent of the house of the time of the Polos,
but some slight idea of its appearance about the year 1500 may be seen in the extract (fig.
A) which we give from the famous pictorial map of Venice attributed erroneously to Albert Dürer.
The state of the buildings in the last century is shown in (fig. B) an extract from the fine
Map of Ughi; and their present condition in one (fig. C) reduced from the Modern Official Map
of the Municipality.

[Coming from the Church of S. G. Grisostomo to enter the calle del Teatro on the left and the
passage (Sottoportico) leading to the Corte del Milione, one has in front of him a building
with a door of the epoch of the Renaissance; it was the office of the provveditori of silk;
on the architrave are engraved the words:

    PROVISORES SERICI

and below, above the door, is the Tablet which] in the year 1827 the Abate Zenier caused to
be put up with this inscription:--

AEDES PROXIMA THALIAE CVLTVI MODO ADDICTA
MARCI POLO P. V. ITINERVM FAMA PRAECLARI
          JAM HABITATIO FVIT.

[Sidenote: Recent corroboration as to the traditional site of the Casa Polo.]

24a. I believe that of late years some doubts have been thrown on the tradition of the site
indicated as that of the Casa Polo, though I am not aware of the grounds of such doubts. But
a document recently discovered at Venice by Comm. Barozzi, one of a series relating to the
testamentary estate of Marco Polo, goes far to confirm the tradition. This is the copy of a
technical definition of two pieces of house property adjoining the property of Marco Polo and
his brother Stephen, which were sold to Marco Polo by his wife Donata[7] in June 1321. Though
the definition is not decisive, from the rarity of topographical references and absence of
points of the compass, the description of Donata's tenements as standing on the Rio (presumably
that of S. Giovanni Grisostomo) on one side, opening by certain porticoes and stairs on the
other to the Court and common alley leading to the Church of S. Giovanni Grisostomo, and abutting
in two places on the Ca' Polo, the property of her husband and Stefano, will apply perfectly
to a building occupying the western portion of the area on which now stands the Theatre, and
perhaps forming the western side of a Court of which Casa Polo formed the other three sides.[8]

We know nothing more of Polo till we find him appearing a year or two later in rapid succession
as the Captain of a Venetian Galley, as a prisoner of war, and as an author.

[1] Marco Barbaro's story related at p. 25 speaks of the Ca' Million as
    built by the travellers.

    From a list of parchments existing in the archives of the Casa di
    Ricovero, or Great Poor House, at Venice, Comm. Berchet obtained the
    following indication:--

    "No. 94. Marco Galetti invests Marco Polo S. of Nicolo with the
    ownership of his possessions (beni) in S. Giovanni Grisostomo; 10
    September, 1319; drawn up by the Notary Nicolo, priest of S.
    Canciano."

    This document would perhaps have thrown light on the matter, but
    unfortunately recent search by several parties has failed to trace it.
    [The document has been discovered since: see vol. ii., Calendar,
    No. 6.--H. C.]

[2] --"Sua casa che era posta nel confin di S. Giovanni Chrisostomo,
    che hor fà l'anno s'abbrugiò totalmente, con gran danno di molti."
    (Doglioní, Hist. Venetiana, Ven. 1598, pp. 161-162.)

    "1596. 7 Nov. Senato (Arsenal ... ix c. 159 t).

    "Essendo conveniente usar qualche ricognizione a quelli della
    maestranza del-l'Arsenal nostro, che prontamente sono concorsi all'
    incendio occorso ultimamente a S. Zuane Grizostomo nelli stabeli detti
    di CA' MILION dove per la relazion fatta nell collegio nostro dalli
    patroni di esso Arsenal hanno nell' estinguere il foco prestato ogni
    buon servitio...."--(Comm. by Cav. Cecchetti through Comm. Berchet.)

[3] See a paper by G. C. (the Engineer Giovanni Casoni) in Teatro
    Emeronitio Almanacco par l'Anno 1835.

[4] This Cross is engraved by Mr. Ruskin in vol. ii. of the Stones of
    Venice: see p. 139, and Pl. xi. Fig. 4.

[5] Casoni's only doubt was whether the Corte del Millioni was what is
    now the Sabbionera, or the interior area of the theatre. The latter
    seems most probable.

    One Illustration of this volume, p. 1, shows the archway in the Corte
    Sabbionera, and also the decorations of the soffit.

[6] See Ruskin, iii. 320.

[7] Comm. Barozzi writes: "Among us, contracts between husband and wife
    are and were very common, and recognized by law. The wife sells to the
    husband property not included in dowry, or that she may have
    inherited, just as any third person might."

[8] See Appendix C, No. 16.

V. DIGRESSION CONCERNING THE WAR-GALLEYS OF THE MEDITERRANEAN STATES IN THE MIDDLE AGES.

[Sidenote: Arrangement of the Rowers in Mediaeval Galleys: a separate oar to every man.]

25. And before entering on this new phase of the Traveller's biography it may not be without
interest that we say something regarding the equipment of those galleys which are so prominent
in the mediaeval history of the Mediterranean.[1]

Eschewing that "Serbonian Bog, where armies whole have sunk" of Books and Commentators, the
theory of the classification of the Biremes and Triremes of the Ancients, we can at least assert
on secure grounds that in mediaeval armament, up to the middle of the 16th century or thereabouts,
the characteristic distinction of galleys of different calibres, so far as such differences
existed, was based on the number of rowers that sat on one bench pulling each his separate
oar, but through one portella or rowlock-port.[2] And to the classes of galleys so distinguished
the Italians, of the later Middle Age at least, did certainly apply, rightly or wrongly, the
classical terms of Bireme, Trireme, and Quinquereme, in the sense of galleys having two men
and two oars to a bench, three men and three oars to a bench, and five men and five oars to
a bench.[3]

That this was the mediaeval arrangement is very certain from the details afforded by Marino
Sanudo the Elder, confirmed by later writers and by works of art. Previous to 1290, Sanudo
tells us, almost all the galleys that went to the Levant had but two oars and men to a bench;
but as it had been found that three oars and men to a bench could be employed with great advantage,
after that date nearly all galleys adopted this arrangement, which was called ai Terzaruoli.[4]

Moreover experiments made by the Venetians in 1316 had shown that four rowers to a bench could
be employed still more advantageously. And where the galleys could be used on inland waters,
and could be made more bulky, Sanudo would even recommend five to a bench, or have gangs of
rowers on two decks with either three or four men to the bench on each deck.

[Sidenote: Change of System in the 16th century.]

26. This system of grouping the oars, and putting only one man to an oar, continued down to
the 16th century, during the first half of which came in the more modern system of using great
oars, equally spaced, and requiring from four to seven men each to ply them, in the manner
which endured till late in the last century, when galleys became altogether obsolete. Captain
Pantero Pantera, the author of a work on Naval Tactics (1616), says he had heard, from veterans
who had commanded galleys equipped in the antiquated fashion, that three men to a bench, with
separate oars, answered better than three men to one great oar, but four men to one great oar
(he says) were certainly more efficient than four men with separate oars. The new-fashioned
great oars, he tells us, were styled Remi di Scaloccio, the old grouped oars Remi a Zenzile,--terms
the etymology of which I cannot explain.[5]

It may be doubted whether the four-banked and five-banked galleys, of which Marino Sanudo speaks,
really then came into practical use. A great five-banked galley on this system, built in 1529
in the Venice Arsenal by Vettor Fausto, was the subject of so much talk and excitement, that
it must evidently have been something quite new and unheard of.[6] So late as 1567 indeed the
King of Spain built at Barcelona a galley of thirty-six benches to the side, and seven men
to the bench, with a separate oar to each in the old fashion. But it proved a failure.[7]

Down to the introduction of the great oars the usual system appears to have been three oars
to a bench for the larger galleys, and two oars for lighter ones. The fuste or lighter galleys
of the Venetians, even to about the middle of the 16th century, had their oars in pairs from
the stern to the mast, and single oars only from the mast forward.[8]

[Sidenote: Some details of the 13th century Galleys.]

27. Returning then to the three-banked and two-banked galleys of the latter part of the 13th
century, the number of benches on each side seems to have run from twenty-five to twenty-eight,
at least as I interpret Sanudo's calculations. The 100-oared vessels often mentioned (e.g.
by Muntaner, p. 419) were probably two-banked vessels with twenty-five benches to a side.

The galleys were very narrow, only 15-1/2 feet in beam.[9] But to give room for the play of
the oars and the passage of the fighting-men, &c., this width was largely augmented by an opera-morta,
or outrigger deck, projecting much beyond the ship's sides and supported by timber brackets.[10]
I do not find it stated how great this projection was in the mediaeval galleys, but in those
of the 17th century it was on each side as much as 2/9ths of the true beam. And if it was as
great in the 13th-century galleys the total width between the false gunnels would be about
22-1/4 feet.

In the centre line of the deck ran, the whole length of the vessel, a raised gangway called
the corsia, for passage clear of the oars.

The benches were arranged as in this diagram. The part of the bench next the gunnel was at
right angles to it, but the other two-thirds of the bench were thrown forward obliquely, a,
b, c, indicate the position of the three rowers. The shortest oar a was called Terlicchio,
the middle one b Posticcio, the long oar c Piamero.[11]

I do not find any information as to how the oars worked on the gunnels. The Siena fresco (see
p. 35) appears to show them attached by loops and pins, which is the usual practice in boats
of the Mediterranean now. In the cut from D. Tintoretto (p. 37) the groups of oars protrude
through regular ports in the bulwarks, but this probably represents the use of a later day.
In any case the oars of each bench must have worked in very close proximity. Sanudo states
the length of the galleys of his time (1300-1320) as 117 feet. This was doubtless length of
keel, for that is specified ("da ruoda a ruoda") in other Venetian measurements, but the whole
oar space could scarcely have been so much, and with twenty-eight benches to a side there could
not have been more than 4 feet gunnel-space to each bench. And as one of the objects of the
grouping of the oars was to allow room between the benches for the action of cross-bowmen,
&c., it is plain that the rowlock space for the three oars must have been very much compressed.[12]

The rowers were divided into three classes, with graduated pay. The highest class, who pulled
the poop or stroke oars, were called Portolati; those at the bow, called Prodieri, formed the
second class.[13]

Some elucidation of the arrangements that we have tried to describe will be found in our cuts.
That at p. 35 is from a drawing, by the aid of a very imperfect photograph, of part of one
of the frescoes of Spinello Aretini in the Municipal Palace at Siena, representing a victory
of the Venetians over the Emperor Frederick Barbarossa's fleet, commanded by his son Otho,
in 1176; but no doubt the galleys, &c., are of the artist's own age, the middle of the 14th
century.[14] In this we see plainly the projecting opera-morta, and the rowers sitting two
to a bench, each with his oar, for these are two-banked. We can also discern the Latin rudder
on the quarter. (See this volume, p. 119.) In a picture in the Uffizj, at Florence, of about
the same date, by Pietro Laurato (it is in the corridor near the entrance), may be seen a small
figure of a galley with the oars also very distinctly coupled.[15] Casoni has engraved, after
Cristoforo Canale, a pictorial plan of a Venetian trireme of the 16th century, which shows
the arrangement of the oars in triplets very plainly.

The following cut has been sketched from an engraving of a picture by Domenico Tintoretto in
the Doge's palace, representing, I believe, the same action (real or imaginary) as Spinello's
fresco, but with the costume and construction of a later date. It shows, however, very plainly,
the projecting opera-morta and the arrangement of the oars in fours, issuing through row-ports
in high bulwarks.

[Sidenote: Fighting Arrangements.]

28. Midships in the mediaeval galley a castle was erected, of the width of the ship, and some
20 feet in length; its platform being elevated sufficiently to allow of free passage under
it and over the benches. At the bow was the battery, consisting of mangonels (see vol. ii.
p. 161 seqq.) and great cross-bows with winding gear,[16] whilst there were shot-ports[17]
for smaller cross-bows along the gunnels in the intervals between the benches. Some of the
larger galleys had openings to admit horses at the stern, which were closed and caulked for
the voyage, being under water when the vessel was at sea.[18]

It seems to have been a very usual piece of tactics, in attacking as well as in awaiting attack,
to connect a large number of galleys by hawsers, and sometimes also to link the oars together,
so as to render it difficult for the enemy to break the line or run aboard. We find this practised
by the Genoese on the defensive at the battle of Ayas (infra, p. 43), and it is constantly
resorted to by the Catalans in the battles described by Ramon de Muntaner.[19]

Sanudo says the toil of rowing in the galleys was excessive, almost unendurable. Yet it seems
to have been performed by freely-enlisted men, and therefore it was probably less severe than
that of the great-oared galleys of more recent times, which it was found impracticable to work
by free enlistment, or otherwise than by slaves under the most cruel driving.[20] I am not
well enough read to say that war-galleys were never rowed by slaves in the Middle Ages, but
the only doubtful allusion to such a class that I have met with is in one passage of Muntaner,
where he says, describing the Neapolitan and Catalan fleets drawing together for action, that
the gangs of the galleys had to toil like "forçats" (p. 313). Indeed, as regards Venice at
least, convict rowers are stated to have been first introduced in 1549, previous to which the
gangs were of galeotti assoldati.[21]

[Sidenote: Crew of a Galley and Staff of a Fleet.]

29. We have already mentioned that Sanudo requires for his three-banked galley a ship's company
of 250 men. They are distributed as follows:--

  Comito or Master            1
  Quartermasters                8
  Carpenters                    2
  Caulkers                      2
  In charge of stores and arms  4
  Orderlies                     2
  Cook                          1
  Arblasteers                  50
  Rowers                      180
                            -----
                              250 [22]

This does not include the Sopracomito, or Gentleman-Commander, who was expected to be valens
homo et probus, a soldier and a gentleman, fit to be consulted on occasion by the captain-general.
In the Venetian fleet he was generally a noble.[23]

The aggregate pay of such a crew, not including the sopracomito, amounted monthly to 60 lire
de' grossi, or 600 florins, equivalent to 280l. at modern gold value; and the cost for a year
to nearly 3160l., exclusive of the victualling of the vessel and the pay of the gentleman-commander.
The build or purchase of a galley complete is estimated by the same author at 15,000 florins,
or 7012l.

We see that war cost a good deal in money even then.

Besides the ship's own complement Sanudo gives an estimate for the general staff of a fleet
of 60 galleys. This consists of a captain-general, two (vice) admirals, and the following:--

   6 Probi homines, or gentlemen of character, forming a council to the
     Captain-General;
   4 Commissaries of Stores;
   2 Commissaries over the Arms;
   3 Physicians;
   3 Surgeons;
   5 Master Engineers and Carpenters;
  15 Master Smiths;
  12 Master Fletchers;
   5 Cuirass men and Helmet-makers;
  15 Oar-makers and Shaft-makers;
  10 Stone cutters for stone shot;
  10 Master Arblast-makers;
  20 Musicians;
  20 Orderlies, &c.

[Sidenote: Music; and other particulars.]

30. The musicians formed an important part of the equipment. Sanudo says that in going into
action every vessel should make the greatest possible display of colours; gonfalons and broad
banners should float from stem to stern, and gay pennons all along the bulwarks; whilst it
was impossible to have too much of noisy music, of pipes, trumpets, kettle-drums, and what
not, to put heart into the crew and strike fear into the enemy.[24]

So Joinville, in a glorious passage, describes the galley of his kinsman, the Count of Jaffa,
at the landing of St. Lewis in Egypt:--

  "That galley made the most gallant figure of them all, for it was
  painted all over, above water and below, with scutcheons of the count's
  arms, the field of which was or with a cross patée gules.[25] He had
  a good 300 rowers in his galley, and every man of them had a target
  blazoned with his arms in beaten gold. And, as they came on, the galley
  looked to be some flying creature, with such spirit did the rowers spin
  it along;--or rather, with the rustle of its flags, and the roar of its
  nacaires and drums and Saracen horns, you might have taken it for a
  rushing bolt of heaven."[26]

The galleys, which were very low in the water,[27] could not keep the sea in rough weather,
and in winter they never willingly kept the sea at night, however fair the weather might be.
Yet Sanudo mentions that he had been with armed galleys to Sluys in Flanders.

I will mention two more particulars before concluding this digression. When captured galleys
were towed into port it was stern foremost, and with their colours dragging on the surface
of the sea.[28] And the custom of saluting at sunset (probably by music) was in vogue on board
the galleys of the 13th century.[29]

We shall now sketch the circumstances that led to the appearance of our Traveller in the command
of a war-galley.

[1] I regret not to have had access to Jal's learned memoirs (Archéologie
    Navale, Paris, 1839) whilst writing this section, nor since, except
    for a hasty look at his Essay on the difficult subject of the oar
    arrangements. I see that he rejects so great a number of oars as
    I deduce from the statements of Sanudo and others, and that he regards
    a large number of the rowers as supplementary.

[2] It seems the more desirable to elucidate this, because writers on
    mediaeval subjects so accomplished as Buchon and Capmany have (it
    would seem) entirely misconceived the matter, assuming that all the
    men on one bench pulled at one oar.

[3] See Coronelli, Atlante Veneto, I. 139, 140. Marino Sanudo the Elder,
    though not using the term trireme, says it was well understood from
    ancient authors that the Romans employed their rowers three to
    a bench (p. 59).

[4] "Ad terzarolos" (Secreta Fidelium Crucis, p. 57). The Catalan
    Worthy, Ramon de Muntaner, indeed constantly denounces the practice of
    manning all the galleys with terzaruoli, or tersols, as his term
    is. But his reason is that these thirds-men were taken from the oar
    when crossbowmen were wanted, to act in that capacity, and as such
    they were good for nothing; the crossbowmen, he insists, should be men
    specially enlisted for that service and kept to that. He would have
    some 10 or 20 per cent, only of the fleet built very light and manned
    in threes. He does not seem to have contemplated oars three-banked,
    and crossbowmen besides, as Sanudo does. (See below; and Muntaner,
    pp. 288, 323, 525, etc.)

    In Sanudo we have a glimpse worth noting of the word soldiers
    advancing towards the modern sense; he expresses a strong preference
    for soldati (viz. paid soldiers) over crusaders (viz.
    volunteers), p. 74.

[5] L'Armata Navale, Roma, 1616, pp. 150-151.

[6] See a work to which I am indebted for a good deal of light and
    information, the Engineer Giovanni Casoni's Essay: "Dei Navigli
    Poliremi usati nella Marina dagli Antichi Veneziani," in
    "Esercitazioni dell' Ateneo Veneto," vol. ii. p. 338. This great
    Quinquereme, as it was styled, is stated to have been struck by
    a fire-arrow, and blown up, in January 1570.

[7] Pantera, p. 22.

[8] Lazarus Bayfius de Re Navali Veterum, in Gronovii Thesaurus, Ven.
    1737, vol. xi. p. 581. This writer also speaks of the Quinquereme
    mentioned above (p. 577).

[9] Marinus Sanutius, p. 65.

[10] See the woodcuts opposite and at p. 37; also Pantera, p. 46
    (who is here, however, speaking of the great-oared galleys), and
    Coronelli, i. 140.

[11] Casoni, p. 324. He obtains these particulars from a manuscript work
    of the 16th century by Cristoforo Canale.

[12] Signor Casoni (p. 324) expresses his belief that no galley of the
    14th century had more than 100 oars. I differ from him with
    hesitation, and still more as I find M. Jal agrees in this view. I
    will state the grounds on which I came to a different conclusion. (1)
    Marino Sanudo assigns 180 rowers for a galley equipped ai Terzaruoli
    (p. 75). This seemed to imply something near 180 oars, for I do not
    find any allusion to reliefs being provided. In the French galleys of
    the 18th century there were no reliefs except in this way, that in
    long runs without urgency only half the oars were pulled. (See Mém.
    d'un Protestant condamné aux Galères, etc., Réimprimés, Paris, 1865,
    p. 447.) If four men to a bench were to be employed, then Sanudo seems
    to calculate for his smaller galleys 220 men actually rowing (see pp.
    75-78). This seems to assume 55 benches, i.e., 28 on one side and 27
    on the other, which with 3-banked oars would give 165 rowers. (2)
    Casoni himself refers to Pietro Martire d'Anghieria's account of a
    Great Galley of Venice in which he was sent ambassador to Egypt from
    the Spanish Court in 1503. The crew amounted to 200, of whom 150 were
    for working the sails and oars, that being the number of oars in each
    galley, one man to each oar and three to each bench. Casoni assumes
    that this vessel must have been much larger than the galleys of the
    14th century; but, however that may have been, Sanudo to his galley
    assigns the larger crew of 250, of whom almost exactly the same
    proportion (180) were rowers. And in he galeazza described by Pietro
    Martire the oars were used only as an occasional auxiliary. (See his
    Legationis Babylonicae Libri Tres, appended to his 3 Decads
    concerning the New World; Basil. 1533, f. 77 ver.) (3) The galleys
    of the 18th century, with their great oars 50 feet long pulled by six
    or seven men each, had 25 benches to the side, and only 4' 6" (French)
    gunnel-space to each oar. (See Mém. d'un Protest., p. 434.) I
    imagine that a smaller space would suffice for the 3 light oars of the
    mediaeval system, so that this need scarcely be a difficulty in the
    face of the preceding evidence. Note also the three hundred rowers
    in Joinville's description quoted at p. 40. The great galleys of the
    Malay Sultan of Achin in 1621 had, according to Beaulieu, from 700 to
    800 rowers, but I do not know on what system.

[13] Marinus Sanutius, p. 78. These titles occur also in the Documenti
    d'Amore of Fr. Barberino referred to at p. 117 of this volume:--

      "Convienti qui manieri
      Portolatti e prodieri
      E presti galeotti
      Aver, e forti e dotti."

[14] Spinello's works, according to Vasari, extended from 1334 till late
    in the century. A religious picture of his at Siena is assigned to
    1385, so the frescoes may probably be of about the same period. Of the
    battle represented I can find no record.

[15] Engraved in Jal, i. 330; with other mediaeval illustrations of the
    same points.

[16] To these Casoni adds Sifoni for discharging Greek fire; but this he
    seems to take from the Greek treatise of the Emperor Leo. Though I
    have introduced Greek fire in the cut at p. 49, I doubt if there is
    evidence of its use by the Italians in the thirteenth century.
    Joinville describes it like something strange and new.

    In after days the artillery occupied the same position, at the bow of
    the galley.

    Great beams, hung like battering rams, are mentioned by Sanudo, as
    well as iron crow's-feet with fire attached, to shoot among the
    rigging, and jars of quick-lime and soft soap to fling in the eyes of
    the enemy. The lime is said to have been used by Doria against the
    Venetians at Curzola (infra, p. 48), and seems to have been a usual
    provision. Francesco Barberini specifies among the stores for his
    galley: "Calcina, con lancioni, Pece, pietre, e ronconi" (p. 259.)
    And Christine de Pisan, in her Faiz du Sage Roy Charles (V. of
    France), explains also the use of the soap: "Item, on doit avoir
    pluseurs vaisseaulx legiers à rompre, comme poz plains de chauls ou
    pouldre, et gecter dedens; et, par ce, seront comme avuglez, au
    brisier des poz. Item, on doit avoir autres poz de mol savon et
    gecter es nefzs des adversaires, et quant les vaisseaulx brisent, le
    savon est glissant, si ne se peuent en piez soustenir et chiéent en
    l'eaue" (pt. ii. ch. 38).

[17] Balislariae, whence no doubt Balistrada and our Balustrade.
    Wedgwood's etymology is far-fetched. And in his new edition (1872),
    though he has shifted his ground, he has not got nearer the truth.

[18] Sanutius, p. 53; Joinville, p. 40; Muntaner, 316, 403.

[19] See pp. 270, 288, 324, and especially 346.

[20] See the Protestant, cited above, p. 441, et seqq.

[21] Venezia e le sue Lagune, ii. 52.

[22] Mar. Sanut. p. 75.

[23] Mar. Sanut., p. 30.

[24] The Catalan Admiral Roger de Loria, advancing at daybreak to attack
    the Provençal Fleet of Charles of Naples (1283) in the harbour of
    Malta, "did a thing which should be reckoned to him rather as an act
    of madness," says Muntaner, "than of reason. He said, 'God forbid that
    I should attack them, all asleep as they are! Let the trumpets and
    nacaires sound to awaken them, and I will tarry till they be ready for
    action. No man shall have it to say, if I beat them, that it was by
    catching them asleep.'" (Munt. p. 287.) It is what Nelson might have
    done!

    The Turkish admiral Sidi 'Ali, about to engage a Portuguese squadron
    in the Straits of Hormuz, in 1553, describes the Franks as "dressing
    their vessels with flags and coming on." (J. As. ix. 70.)

[25] A cross patée, is one with the extremities broadened out into
    feet as it were.

[26] Page 50.

[27] The galley at p. 49 is somewhat too high; and I believe it should
    have had no shrouds.

[28] See Muntaner, passim, e.g. 271, 286, 315, 349.

[29] Ibid. 346.

[Sidenote: Growing jealousies and outbreaks between the Republics.]

31. Jealousies, too characteristic of the Italian communities, were, in the case of the three
great trading republics of Venice, Genoa, and Pisa, aggravated by commercial rivalries, whilst,
between the two first of those states, and also between the two last, the bitterness of such
feelings had been augmenting during the whole course of the 13th century.[1]

The brilliant part played by Venice in the conquest of Constantinople (1204), and the preponderance
she thus acquired on the Greek shores, stimulated her arrogance and the resentment of her rivals.
The three states no longer stood on a level as bidders for the shifting favour of the Emperor
of the East. By treaty, not only was Venice established as the most important ally of the empire
and as mistress of a large fraction of its territory, but all members of nations at war with
her were prohibited from entering its limits. Though the Genoese colonies continued to exist,
they stood at a great disadvantage, where their rivals were so predominant and enjoyed exemption
from duties, to which the Genoese remained subject. Hence jealousies and resentments reached
a climax in the Levantine settlements, and this colonial exacerbation reacted on the mother States.

A dispute which broke out at Acre in 1255 came to a head in a war which lasted for years, and
was felt all over Syria. It began in a quarrel about a very old church called St. Sabba's,
which stood on the common boundary of the Venetian and Genoese estates in Acre,[2] and this
flame was blown by other unlucky occurrences. Acre suffered grievously.[3] Venice at this time
generally kept the upper hand, beating Genoa by land and sea, and driving her from Acre altogether.
+ Four ancient porphyry figures from St. Sabba's were sent in triumph to Venice, and with their
strange devices still stand at the exterior corner of St. Mark's, towards the Ducal Palace.[4]

But no number of defeats could extinguish the spirit of Genoa, and the tables were turned when
in her wrath she allied herself with Michael Palaeologus to upset the feeble and tottering
Latin Dynasty, and with it the preponderance of Venice on the Bosphorus. The new emperor handed
over to his allies the castle of their foes, which they tore down with jubilations, and now
it was their turn to send its stones as trophies to Genoa.

The energy and capacity of the Genoese seemed to rise with their success, and both in seamanship
and in splendour they began almost to surpass their old rivals. The fall of Acre (1291), and
the total expulsion of the Franks from Syria, in great measure barred the southern routes of
Indian trade, whilst the predominance of Genoa in the Euxine more or less obstructed the free
access of her rival to the northern routes by Trebizond and Tana.

[Sidenote: Battle in Bay of Ayas in 1294.]

32. Truces were made and renewed, but the old fire still smouldered. In the spring of 1294
it broke into flame, in consequence of the seizure in the Grecian seas of three Genoese vessels
by a Venetian fleet. This led to an action with a Genoese convoy which sought redress. The
fight took place off Ayas in the Gulf of Scanderoon,[6] and though the Genoese were inferior
in strength by one-third they gained a signal victory, capturing all but three of the Venetian
galleys, with rich cargoes, including that of Marco Basilio (or Basegio), the commodore.

This victory over their haughty foe was in its completeness evidently a surprise to the Genoese,
as well as a source of immense exultation, which is vigorously expressed in a ballad of the
day, written in a stirring salt-water rhythm.[7] It represents the Venetians, as they enter
the bay, in arrogant mirth reviling the Genoese with very unsavoury epithets as having deserted
their ships to skulk on shore. They are described as saying:--

  "'Off they've slunk! and left us nothing;
  We shall get nor prize nor praise;
  Nothing save those crazy timbers
    Only fit to make a blaze.'"

So they advance carelessly--

  "On they come! But lo their blunder!
    When our lads start up anon,
  Breaking out like unchained lions,
    With a roar, 'Fall on! Fall on!'"[8]

After relating the battle and the thoroughness of the victory, ending in the conflagration
of five-and-twenty captured galleys, the poet concludes by an admonition to the enemy to moderate
his pride and curb his arrogant tongue, harping on the obnoxious epithet porci leproxi, which
seems to have galled the Genoese.[9] He concludes:--

  "Nor can I at all remember
    Ever to have heard the story
  Of a fight wherein the Victors
    Reaped so rich a meed of glory!"[10]

The community of Genoa decreed that the victory should be commemorated by the annual presentation
of a golden pall to the monastery of St. German's, the saint on whose feast (28th May) it had
been won.[11]

The startling news was received at Venice with wrath and grief, for the flower of their navy
had perished, and all energies were bent at once to raise an overwhelming force.[12] The Pope
(Boniface VIII.) interfered as arbiter, calling for plenipotentiaries from both sides. But
spirits were too much inflamed, and this mediation came to nought.

Further outrages on both sides occurred in 1296. The Genoese residences at Pera were fired,
their great alum works on the coast of Anatolia were devastated, and Caffa was stormed and
sacked; whilst on the other hand a number of the Venetians at Constantinople were massacred
by the Genoese, and Marco Bembo, their Bailo, was flung from a house-top. Amid such events
the fire of enmity between the cities waxed hotter and hotter.

[Sidenote: Lamba Doria's Expedition to the Adriatic.]

33. In 1298 the Genoese made elaborate preparations for a great blow at the enemy, and fitted
out a powerful fleet which they placed under the command of LAMBA DORIA, a younger brother
of Uberto of that illustrious house, under whom he had served fourteen years before in the
great rout of the Pisans at Meloria.

The rendezvous of the fleet was in the Gulf of Spezia, as we learn from the same pithy Genoese
poet who celebrated Ayas. This time the Genoese were bent on bearding St. Mark's Lion in his
own den; and after touching at Messina they steered straight for the Adriatic:--

  "Now, as astern Otranto bears,
    Pull with a will! and, please the Lord,
    Let them who bragged, with fire and sword,
  To waste our homesteads, look to theirs!"[13]

On their entering the gulf a great storm dispersed the fleet The admiral with twenty of his
galleys got into port at Antivari on the Albanian coast, and next day was rejoined by fifty-eight
more, with which he scoured the Dalmatian shore, plundering all Venetian property. Some sixteen
of his galleys were still missing when he reached the island of Curzola, or Scurzola as the
more popular name seems to have been, the Black Corcyra of the Ancients--the chief town of
which, a rich and flourishing place, the Genoese took and burned.[14] Thus they were engaged
when word came that the Venetian fleet was in sight.

Venice, on first hearing of the Genoese armament, sent Andrea Dandolo with a large force to
join and supersede Maffeo Quirini, who was already cruising with a squadron in the Ionian sea;
and, on receiving further information of the strength of the hostile expedition, the Signory
hastily equipped thirty-two more galleys in Chioggia and the ports of Dalmatia, and despatched
them to join Dandolo, making the whole number under his command up to something like ninety-five.
Recent drafts had apparently told heavily upon the Venetian sources of enlistment, and it is
stated that many of the complements were made up of rustics swept in haste from the Euganean
hills. To this the Genoese poet seems to allude, alleging that the Venetians, in spite of their
haughty language, had to go begging for men and money up and down Lombardy. "Did we do like
that, think you?" he adds:--

  "Beat up for aliens? We indeed?
    When lacked we homeborn Genoese?
    Search all the seas, no salts like these,
  For Courage, Seacraft, Wit at need."[15]

Of one of the Venetian galleys, probably in the fleet which sailed under Dandolo's immediate
command, went Marco Polo as Sopracomito or Gentleman-Commander.[16]

[Sidenote: The Fleets come in sight of each other at Curzola.]

34. It was on the afternoon of Saturday the 6th September that the Genoese saw the Venetian
fleet approaching, but, as sunset was not far off, both sides tacitly agreed to defer the engagement.[17]

The Genoese would appear to have occupied a position near the eastern end of the Island of
Curzola, with the Peninsula of Sabbioncello behind them, and Meleda on their left, whilst the
Venetians advanced along the south side of Curzola. (See map on p. 50).

According to Venetian accounts the Genoese were staggered at the sight of the Venetian armaments,
and sent more than once to seek terms, offering finally to surrender galleys and munitions
of war, if the crews were allowed to depart. This is an improbable story, and that of the Genoese
ballad seems more like truth. Doria, it says, held a council of his captains in the evening
at which they all voted for attack, whilst the Venetians, with that overweening sense of superiority
which at this time is reflected in their own annals as distinctly as in those of their enemies,
kept scout-vessels out to watch that the Genoese fleet, which they looked on as already their
own, did not steal away in the darkness. A vain imagination, says the poet:--

  "Blind error of vainglorious men
    To dream that we should seek to flee
    After those weary leagues of sea
  Crossed, but to hunt them in their den!"[18]

[Sidenote: The Venetians defeated, and Marco Polo a prisoner.]

35. The battle began early on Sunday and lasted till the afternoon. The Venetians had the wind
in their favour, but the morning sun in their eyes. They made the attack, and with great impetuosity,
capturing ten Genoese galleys; but they pressed on too wildly, and some of their vessels ran
aground. One of their galleys too, being taken, was cleared of her crew and turned against
the Venetians. These incidents caused confusion among the assailants; the Genoese, who had
begun to give way, took fresh heart, formed a close column, and advanced boldly through the
Venetian line, already in disorder. The sun had begun to decline when there appeared on the
Venetian flank the fifteen or sixteen missing galleys of Doria's fleet, and fell upon it with
fresh force. This decided the action. The Genoese gained a complete victory, capturing all
but a few of the Venetian galleys, and including the flagship with Dandolo. The Genoese themselves
lost heavily, especially in the early part of the action, and Lamba Doria's eldest son Octavian
is said to have fallen on board his father's vessel.[19] The number of prisoners taken was
over 7000, and among these was Marco Polo.[20]

The prisoners, even of the highest rank, appear to have been chained. Dandolo, in despair at
his defeat, and at the prospect of being carried captive into Genoa, refused food, and ended
by dashing his head against a bench.[21] A Genoese account asserts that a noble funeral was
given him after the arrival of the fleet at Genoa, which took place on the evening of the 16th
October.[22] It was received with great rejoicing, and the City voted the annual presentation
of a pallium of gold brocade to the altar of the Virgin in the Church of St. Matthew, on every
8th of September, the Madonna's day, on the eve of which the Battle had been won. To the admiral
himself a Palace was decreed. It still stands, opposite the Church of St. Matthew, though it
has passed from the possession of the Family. On the striped marble façades, both of the Church
and of the Palace, inscriptions of that age, in excellent preservation, still commemorate Lamba's
achievement.[23] Malik al Mansúr, the Mameluke Sultan of Egypt, as an enemy of Venice, sent
a complimentary letter to Doria accompanied by costly presents.[24]

The latter died at Savona 17th October, 1323, a few months before the most illustrious of his
prisoners, and his bones were laid in a sarcophagus which may still be seen forming the sill
of one of the windows of S. Matteo (on the right as you enter). Over this sarcophagus stood
the Bust of Lamba till 1797, when the mob of Genoa, in idiotic imitation of the French proceedings
of that age, threw it down. All of Lamba's six sons had fought with him at Meloria. In 1291
one of them, Tedisio, went forth into the Atlantic in company with Ugolino Vivaldi on a voyage
of discovery, and never returned. Through Caesar, the youngest, this branch of the Family still
survives, bearing the distinctive surname of Lamba-Doria.[25]

As to the treatment of the prisoners, accounts differ; a thing usual in such cases. The Genoese
Poet asserts that the hearts of his countrymen were touched, and that the captives were treated
with compassionate courtesy. Howsoever they may have been treated, here was Marco Polo one
of those many thousand prisoners in Genoa; and here, before long, he appears to have made acquaintance
with a man of literary propensities, whose destiny had brought him into the like plight, by
name RUSTICIANO or RUSTICHELLO of Pisa. It was this person perhaps who persuaded the Traveller
to defer no longer the reduction to writing of his notable experiences; but in any case it
was he who wrote down those experiences at Marco's dictation; it is he therefore to whom we
owe the preservation of this record, and possibly even that of the Traveller's very memory.
This makes the Genoese imprisonment so important an episode in Polo's biography.

To Rusticiano we shall presently recur. But let us first bring to a conclusion what may be
gathered as to the duration of Polo's imprisonment.

It does not appear whether Pope Boniface made any new effort for accommodation between the
Republics; but other Italian princes did interpose, and Matteo Visconti, Captain-General of
Milan, styling himself Vicar-General of the Holy Roman Empire in Lombardy, was accepted as
Mediator, along with the community of Milan. Ambassadors from both States presented themselves
at that city, and on the 25th May, 1299, they signed the terms of a Peace.

These terms were perfectly honourable to Venice, being absolutely equal and reciprocal; from
which one is apt to conclude that the damage to the City of the Sea was rather to her pride
than to her power; the success of Genoa, in fact, having been followed up by no systematic
attack upon Venetian commerce.[27] Among the terms was the mutual release of prisoners on a
day to be fixed by Visconti after the completion of all formalities. This day is not recorded,
but as the Treaty was ratified by the Doge of Venice on the 1st July, and the latest extant
document connected with the formalities appears to be dated 18th July, we may believe that
before the end of August Marco Polo was restored to the family mansion in S. Giovanni Grisostomo.

[Sidenote: Grounds on which the story of Marco Polo's capture at Curzola rests.]

37. Something further requires to be said before quitting this event in our Traveller's life.
For we confess that a critical reader may have some justification in asking what evidence there
is that Marco Polo ever fought at Curzola, and ever was carried a prisoner to Genoa from that
unfortunate action?

A learned Frenchman, whom we shall have to quote freely in the immediately ensuing pages, does
not venture to be more precise in reference to the meeting of Polo and Rusticiano than to say
of the latter: "In 1298, being in durance in the Prison of Genoa, he there became acquainted
with Marco Polo, whom the Genoese had deprived of his liberty from motives equally unknown."[28]

To those who have no relish for biographies that round the meagre skeleton of authentic facts
with a plump padding of what might have been, this sentence of Paulin Paris is quite refreshing
in its stern limitation to positive knowledge. And certainly no contemporary authority has
yet been found for the capture of our Traveller at Curzola. Still I think that the fact is
beyond reasonable doubt.

Ramusio's biographical notices certainly contain many errors of detail; and some, such as the
many years' interval which he sets between the Battle of Curzola and Marco's return, are errors
which a very little trouble would have enabled him to eschew. But still it does seem reasonable
to believe that the main fact of Marco's command of a galley at Curzola, and capture there,
was derived from a genuine tradition, if not from documents.

Let us then turn to the words which close Rusticiano's preamble (see post, p. 2):--"Lequel
(Messire Marc) puis demorant en le charthre de Jene, fist retraire toutes cestes chouses a
Messire Rustacians de Pise que en celle meissme charthre estoit, au tens qu'il avoit 1298 anz
que Jezu eut vesqui." These words are at least thoroughly consistent with Marco's capture at
Curzola, as regards both the position in which they present him, and the year in which he is
thus presented.

There is however another piece of evidence, though it is curiously indirect.

The Dominican Friar Jacopo of Acqui was a contemporary of Polo's, and was the author of a somewhat
obscure Chronicle called Imago Mundi.[29] Now this Chronicle does contain mention of Marco's
capture in action by the Genoese, but attributes it to a different action from Curzola, and
one fought at a time when Polo could not have been present. The passage runs as follows in
a manuscript of the Ambrosian Library, according to an extract given by Baldelli Boni:--

  "In the year of Christ MCCLXXXXVI, in the time of Pope Boniface VI., of
  whom we have spoken above, a battle was fought in Arminia, at the place
  called Layaz, between xv. galleys of Genoese merchants and xxv. of
  Venetian merchants; and after a great fight the galleys of the Venetians
  were beaten, and (the crews) all slain or taken; and among them was
  taken Messer Marco the Venetian, who was in company with those
  merchants, and who was called Milono, which is as much as to say 'a
  thousand thousand pounds,' for so goes the phrase in Venice. So this
  Messer Marco Milono the Venetian, with the other Venetian prisoners, is
  carried off to the prison of Genoa, and there kept for a long time. This
  Messer Marco was a long time with his father and uncle in Tartary, and
  he there saw many things, and made much wealth, and also learned many
  things, for he was a man of ability. And so, being in prison at Genoa,
  he made a Book concerning the great wonders of the World, i.e.,
  concerning such of them as he had seen. The date MCCLXXXXVI assigned to it in the preceding
extract has given rise to some unprofitable discussion. Could that date be
accepted, no doubt it would enable us also to accept this, the sole
statement from the Traveller's own age of the circumstances which brought
him into a Genoese prison; it would enable us to place that imprisonment
within a few months of his return from the East, and to extend its
duration to three years, points which would thus accord better with the
general tenor of Ramusio's tradition than the capture of Curzola. But the
matter is not open to such a solution. The date of the Battle of Ayas is
not more doubtful than that of the Battle of the Nile. It is clearly
stated by several independent chroniclers, and is carefully established in
the Ballad that we have quoted above.[31] We shall see repeatedly in the
course of this Book how uncertain are the transcriptions of dates in Roman
numerals, and in the present case the LXXXXVI is as certainly a mistake
for LXXXXIV as is Boniface VI. in the same quotation a mistake for
Boniface VIII.

But though we cannot accept the statement that Polo was taken prisoner at Ayas, in the spring
of 1294, we may accept the passage as evidence from a contemporary source that he was taken
prisoner in some sea-fight with the Genoese, and thus admit it in corroboration of the Ramusian
Tradition of his capture in a sea-fight at Curzola in 1298, which is perfectly consistent with
all other facts in our possession.

[1] In this part of these notices I am repeatedly indebted to Heyd.
    (See supra, p. 9.)

[2] On or close to the Hill called Monjoie; see the plan from Marino
    Sanudo at p. 18.

[3] "Throughout that year there were not less than 40 machines all at work
    upon the city of Acre, battering its houses and its towers, and
    smashing and overthrowing everything within their range. There were at
    least ten of those engines that shot stones so big and heavy that they
    weighed a good 1500 lbs. by the weight of Champagne; insomuch that
    nearly all the towers and forts of Acre were destroyed, and only the
    religious houses were left. And there were slain in this same war good
    20,000 men on the two sides, but chiefly of Genoese and Spaniards."
    (Lettre de Jean Pierre Sarrasin, in Michel's Joinville, p. 308.)

[4] The origin of these columns is, however, somewhat uncertain.
    [See Cicogna, I. p. 379.]

[5] In 1262, when a Venetian squadron was taken by the Greek fleet in
    alliance with the Genoese, the whole of the survivors of the captive
    crews were blinded by order of Palaeologus. (Roman. ii. 272.)

[6] See pp. 16, 41, and Plan of Ayas at beginning of Bk. I.

[7] See Archivio Storico Italiano, Appendice, tom. iv.

[8]   Niente ne resta a prender
        Se no li corpi de li legni:
      Preixi som senza difender;
        De bruxar som tute degni!
         *     *     *     *
      Como li fom aproximai
        Queli si levan lantor
      Como leon descaenai
        Tuti criando "Alor! Alor!"

    This Alor! Alor! ("Up, Boys, and at 'em"), or something similar,
    appears to have been the usual war-cry of both parties. So a
    trumpet-like poem of the Troubadour warrior Bertram de Born, whom
    Dante found in such evil plight below (xxviii.
        D'ambas la partz; et aug agnir
          Cavals voits per l'ombratge...."

      "I tell you a zest far before
        Aught of slumber, or drink, or of food,
      I snatch when the shouts of ALOR
        Ring from both sides: and out of the wood
        Comes the neighing of steeds dimly seen...."

    In a galley fight at Tyre in 1258, according to a Latin narrative, the
    Genoese shout "Ad arma, ad arma! ad ipsos, ad ipsos!" The cry of the
    Venetians before engaging the Greeks is represented by Martino da
    Canale, in his old French, as "or à yaus! or à yaus!" that of the
    Genoese on another occasion as Aur! Aur! and this last is the shout
    of the Catalans also in Ramon de Muntaner. (Villemain, Litt. du Moyen
    Age, i. 99; Archiv. Stor. Ital. viii. 364, 506; Pertz, Script.
    xviii. 239; Muntaner, 269, 287.) Recently in a Sicilian newspaper,
    narrating an act of gallant and successful reprisal (only too rare) by
    country folk on a body of the brigands who are such a scourge to parts
    of the island, I read that the honest men in charging the villains
    raised a shout of "Ad iddi! Ad iddi!"

[9] A phrase curiously identical, with a similar sequence, is attributed
    to an Austrian General at the battle of Skalitz in 1866. (Stoffel's
    Letters.)

[10]  E no me posso aregordar
        Dalcuno romanzo vertadé
      Donde oyse uncha cointar
        Alcun triumfo si sobré!

[11] Stella in Muratori, xvii. 984.

[12] Dandulo, Ibid. xii. 404-405.

[13]  Or entram con gran vigor,
        En De sperando aver triumpho,
        Queli zerchando inter lo Gorfo
      Chi menazeram zercha lor!

    And in the next verse note the pure Scotch use of the word bra:--

      Sichè da Otranto se partim
        Quella bra compagnia,
        Per assar in Ihavonia,
      D'Avosto a vinte nove di.

[14] The island of Curzola now counts about 4000 inhabitants; the town
    half the number. It was probably reckoned a dependency of Venice at
    this time. The King of Hungary had renounced his claims on the
    Dalmatian coasts by treaty in 1244. (Romanin, ii. 235.) The gallant
    defence of the place against the Algerines in 1571 won for Curzola
    from the Venetian Senate the honourable title in all documents of
    fedelissima. (Paton's Adriatic, I. 47.)

[15]    Ma sé si gran colmo avea
      Perchè andava mendigando

      Per terra de Lombardia
        Peccunia, gente a sodi?
        Pone mente tu che l'odi
      Se noi tegnamo questa via?

      No, ma più! ajamo omi nostrar
        Destri, valenti, e avisti,
        Che mai par de lor n' o visti
      In tuti officj de mar.

[16] In July 1294, a Council of Thirty decreed that galleys should be
    equipped by the richest families in proportion to their wealth. Among
    the families held to equip one galley each, or one galley among two or
    more, in this list, is the CA' POLO. But this was before the return of
    the travellers from the East, and just after the battle of Ayas.
    (Romanin, ii. 332; this author misdates Ayas, however.) When a levy
    was required in Venice for any expedition the heads of each contrada
    divided the male inhabitants, between the ages of twenty and sixty,
    into groups of twelve each, called duodene. The dice were thrown to
    decide who should go first on service. He who went received five
    lire a month from the State, and one lira from each of his
    colleagues in the duodena. Hence his pay was sixteen lire a month,
    about 2s. a day in silver value, if these were lire ai grossi, or
    1s. 4d. if lire dei piccoli. (See Romanin, ii. 393-394.)

    Money on such occasions was frequently raised by what was called an
    Estimo or Facion, which was a force loan levied on the citizens in
    proportion to their estimated wealth; and for which they were entitled
    to interest from the State.

[17] Several of the Italian chroniclers, as Ferreto of Vicenza and
    Navagiero, whom Muratori has followed in his "Annals," say the battle
    was fought on the 8th September, the so-called Birthday of the
    Madonna. But the inscription on the Church of St. Matthew at Genoa,
    cited further on, says the 7th, and with this agree both Stella and
    the Genoese poet. For the latter, though not specifying the day of the
    month, says it was on a Sunday:--

      "Lo di de Domenga era
        Passa prima en l'ora bona
        Stormezam fin provo nona
      Con bataio forte e fera."

    Now the 7th September, 1298, fell on a Sunday.

[18]  Ma li pensavam grande error
        Che in fuga se fussem tuti metui
        Che de si lonzi eram vegnui
      Per cerchali a casa lor.

[19] "Note here that the Genoese generally, commonly, and by nature, are
    the most covetous of Men, and the Love of Gain spurs them to every
    Crime. Yet are they deemed also the most valiant Men in the World.
    Such an one was Lampa, of that very Doria family, a man of an high
    Courage truly. For when he was engaged in a Sea-Fight against the
    Venetians, and was standing on the Poop of his Galley, his Son,
    fighting valiantly at the Forecastle, was shot by an Arrow in the
    Breast, and fell wounded to the Death; a Mishap whereat his Comrades
    were sorely shaken, and Fear came upon the whole Ship's Company. But
    Lampa, hot with the Spirit of Battle, and more mindful of his
    Country's Service and his own Glory than of his Son, ran forward to
    the spot, loftily rebuked the agitated Crowd, and ordered his Son's
    Body to be cast into the Deep, telling them for their Comfort that the
    Land could never have afforded his Boy a nobler Tomb. And then,
    renewing the Fight more fiercely than ever, he achieved the Victory."
    (Benvenuto of Imola, in Comment. on Dante. in Muratori, Antiq. i.
    1146.)

      ("Yet like an English General will I die,
          And all the Ocean make my spacious Grave;
        Women and Cowards on the Land may lie,
          The Sea's the Tomb that's proper for the Brave!"
                             --Annus Mirabilis.)

[20] The particulars of the battle are gathered from Ferretus
    Vicentinus, in Murat. ix. 985 seqq.; And. Dandulo, in xii.
    407-408; Navagiero, in xxiii. 1009-1010; and the Genoese Poem as
    before.

[21] Navagiero, u.s. Dandulo says, "after a few days he died of grief";
    Ferretus, that he was killed in the action and buried at Curzola.

[22] For the funeral, a MS. of Cibo Recco quoted by Jacopo Doria in La
    Chiesa di San Matteo descritta, etc., Genova, 1860, p. 26. For the
    date of arrival the poem so often quoted:--

      "De Oitover, a zoia, a seze di
        Lo nostro ostel, con gran festa
        En nostro porto, a or di sesta
      Domine De restitui."

[23] S. Matteo was built by Martin Doria in 1125, but pulled down and
    rebuilt by the family in a slightly different position in 1278. On
    this occasion is recorded a remarkable anticipation of the feats of
    American engineering: "As there was an ancient and very fine picture
    of Christ upon the apse of the Church, it was thought a great pity
    that so fine a work should be destroyed. And so they contrived an
    ingenious method by which the apse bodily was transported without
    injury, picture and all, for a distance of 25 ells, and firmly set
    upon the foundations where it now exists." (Jacopo de Varagine in
    Muratori, vol. ix. 36.)

    The inscription on S. Matteo regarding the battle is as follows:--"Ad
    Honorem Dei et Beate Virginis Marie Anno MCCLXXXXVIII Die Dominico VII
    Septembris iste Angelus captus fuit in Gulfo Venetiarum in Civitate
    Scursole et ibidem fuit prelium Galearum LXXVI Januensium cum Galeis
    LXXXXVI Veneciarum. Capte fuerunt LXXXIIII per Nobilem Virum Dominum
    Lambam Aurie Capitaneum et Armiratum tunc Comunis et Populi Janue cum
    omnibus existentibus in eisdem, de quibus conduxit Janue homines vivos
    carceratos VII cccc et Galeas XVIII, reliquas LXVI fecit cumburi in
    dicto Gulfo Veneciarum. Qui obiit Sagone I. MCCCXXIII." It is not
    clear to what the Angelus refers.

[24] Rampoldi, Ann. Musulm. ix. 217.

[25] Jacopo Doria, p. 280.

[26] Murat. xxiii. 1010. I learn from a Genoese gentleman, through my
    friend Professor Henry Giglioli (to whose kindness I owe the
    transcript of the inscription just given), that a faint tradition
    exists as to the place of our traveller's imprisonment. It is alleged
    to have been a massive building, standing between the Grazie and the
    Mole, and bearing the name of the Malapaga, which is now a barrack
    for Doganieri, but continued till comparatively recent times to be
    used as a civil prison. "It is certain," says my informant, "that men
    of fame in arms who had fallen into the power of the Genoese were
    imprisoned there, and among others is recorded the name of the
    Corsican Giudice dalla Rocca and Lord of Cinarca, who died there in
    1312;" a date so near that of Marco's imprisonment as to give some
    interest to the hypothesis, slender as are its grounds. Another
    Genoese, however, indicates as the scene of Marco's captivity certain
    old prisons near the Old Arsenal, in a site still known as the Vico
    degli Schiavi. (Celesia, Dante in Liguria, 1865, p. 43.) [Was not
    the place of Polo's captivity the basement of the Palazzo del Capitan
    del Popolo, afterwards Palazzo del Comune al Mare, where the
    Customs (Dogana) had their office, and from the 15th century the
    Casa or Palazzo di S. Giorgio?--H. C.]

[27] The Treaty and some subsidiary documents are printed in the Genoese
    Liber Jurium, forming a part of the Monumenta Historiae Patriae,
    published at Turin. (See Lib. Jur. II. 344, seqq.) Muratori in his
    Annals has followed John Villani (Bk. VIII. ch. 27) in representing
    the terms as highly unfavourable to Venice. But for this there is no
    foundation in the documents. And the terms are stated with substantial
    accuracy in Navagiero. (Murat. Script. xxiii. 1011.)

[28] Paulin Paris, Les Manuscrits François de la Bibliothèque du Roi,
    ii. 355.

[29] Though there is no precise information as to the birth or death of
    this writer, who belonged to a noble family of Lombardy, the
    Bellingeri, he can be traced with tolerable certainty as in life in
    1289, 1320, and 1334. (See the Introduction to his Chronicle in the
    Turin Monumentà, Scriptores III.)

[30] There is another MS. of the Imago Mundi at Turin, which has been
    printed in the Monumenta. The passage about Polo in that copy
    differs widely in wording, is much shorter, and contains no date. But
    it relates his capture as having taken place at Là Glazà, which I
    think there can be no doubt is also intended for Ayas (sometimes
    called Giàzza), a place which in fact is called Glaza in three of
    the MSS. of which various readings are given in the edition of the
    Société de Géographie (p. 535).

[31]  "E per meio esse aregordenti
        De si grande scacho mato
      Correa mille duxenti
        Zonto ge novanta e quatro."

    The Armenian Prince Hayton or Héthum has put it under 1293.

[Sidenote: Rusticiano, perhaps a prisoner from Meloria.]

The relations between Genoa and Pisa had long been so hostile that it was only too natural
in 1298 to find a Pisan in the gaol of Genoa. An unhappy multitude of such prisoners had been
carried thither fourteen years before, and the survivors still lingered there in vastly dwindled
numbers. In the summer of 1284 was fought the battle from which Pisa had to date the commencement
of her long decay. In July of that year the Pisans, at a time when the Genoese had no fleet
in their own immediate waters, had advanced to the very port of Genoa and shot their defiance
into the proud city in the form of silver-headed arrows, and stones belted with scarlet.[1]
They had to pay dearly for this insult. The Genoese, recalling their cruisers, speedily mustered
a fleet of eighty-eight galleys, which were placed under the command of another of that illustrious
House of Doria, the Scipios of Genoa as they have been called, Uberto, the elder brother of
Lamba. Lamba himself with his six sons, and another brother, was in the fleet, whilst the whole
number of Dorias who fought in the ensuing action amounted to 250, most of them on board one
great galley bearing the name of the family patron, St. Matthew.[2]

The Pisans, more than one-fourth inferior in strength, came out boldly, and the battle was
fought off the Porto Pisano, in fact close in front of Leghorn, where a lighthouse on a remarkable
arched basement still marks the islet of MELORIA, whence the battle got its name. The day was
the 6th of August, the feast of St. Sixtus, a day memorable in the Pisan Fasti for several
great victories. But on this occasion the defeat of Pisa was overwhelming. Forty of their galleys
were taken or sunk, and upwards of 9000 prisoners carried to Genoa. In fact so vast a sweep
was made of the flower of Pisan manhood that it was a common saying then: "Che vuol veder Pisa,
vada a Genova!" Many noble ladies of Pisa went in large companies on foot to Genoa to seek
their husbands or kinsmen: "And when they made enquiry of the Keepers of the Prisons, the reply
would be, 'Yesterday there died thirty of them, to-day there have died forty; all of whom we
have cast into the sea; and so it is daily.'"[3]

A body of prisoners so numerous and important naturally exerted themselves in the cause of
peace, and through their efforts, after many months of negotiation, a formal peace was signed
(15th April, 1288). But through the influence, as was alleged, of Count Ugolino (Dante's) who
was then in power at Pisa, the peace became abortive; war almost immediately recommenced, and
the prisoners had no release.[4] And, when the 6000 or 7000 Venetians were thrown into the
prisons of Genoa in October 1298, they would find there the scanty surviving remnant of the
Pisan Prisoners of Meloria, and would gather from them dismal forebodings of the fate before them.

It is a fair conjecture that to that remnant Rusticiano of Pisa may have belonged.

We have seen Ramusio's representation of the kindness shown to Marco during his imprisonment
by a certain Genoese gentleman who also assisted him to reduce his travels to writing. We may
be certain that this Genoese gentleman is only a distorted image of Rusticiano, the Pisan prisoner
in the gaol of Genoa, whose name and part in the history of his hero's book Ramusio so strangely
ignores. Yet patriotic Genoese writers in our own times have striven to determine the identity
of this their imaginary countryman![5]

[Sidenote: Rusticiano, a person known from other sources.]

39. Who, then, was Rusticiano, or, as the name actually is read in the oldest type of MS.,
"Messire Rustacians de Pise"?

Our knowledge of him is but scanty. Still something is known of him besides the few words concluding
his preamble to our Traveller's Book, which you may read at pp. 1-2 of the body of this volume.

In Sir Walter Scott's "Essay on Romance," when he speaks of the new mould in which the subjects
of the old metrical stories were cast by the school of prose romancers which arose in the 13th
century, we find the following words:--

  "Whatever fragments or shadows of true history may yet remain hidden
  under the mass of accumulated fable which had been heaped upon them
  during successive ages, must undoubtedly be sought in the metrical
  romances.... But those prose authors who wrote under the imaginary names
  of RUSTICIEN DE PISE, Robert de Borron, and the like, usually seized
  upon the subject of some old minstrel; and recomposing the whole
  narrative after their own fashion, with additional character and
  adventure, totally obliterated in that operation any shades which
  remained of the original and probably authentic tradition," &c.[6]

Evidently, therefore, Sir Walter regarded Rustician of Pisa as a person belonging to the same
ghostly company as his own Cleishbothams and Dryasdusts. But in this we see that he was wrong.

In the great Paris Library and elsewhere there are manuscript volumes containing the stories
of the Round Table abridged and somewhat clumsily combined from the various Prose Romances
of that cycle, such as Sir Tristan, Lancelot, Palamedes, Giron le Courtois, &c., which had
been composed, it would seem, by various Anglo-French gentlemen at the court of Henry III.,
styled, or styling themselves, Gasses le Blunt, Luces du Gast, Robert de Borron, and Hélis
de Borron. And these abridgments or recasts are professedly the work of Le Maistre Rusticien
de Pise. Several of them were printed at Paris in the end of the 15th and beginning of the
16th centuries as the works of Rusticien de Pise; and as the preambles and the like, especially
in the form presented in those printed editions, appear to be due sometimes to the original
composers (as Robert and Hélis de Borron) and sometimes to Rusticien de Pise the recaster,
there would seem to have been a good deal of confusion made in regard to their respective personalities.

From a preamble to one of those compilations which undoubtedly belongs to Rustician, and which
we shall quote at length by and bye, we learn that Master Rustician "translated" (or perhaps
transferred?) his compilation from a book belonging to King Edward of England, at the time
when that prince went beyond seas to recover the Holy Sepulchre. Now Prince Edward started
for the Holy Land in 1270, spent the winter of that year in Sicily, and arrived in Palestine
in May 1271. He quitted it again in August, 1272, and passed again by Sicily, where in January,
1273, he heard of his father's death and his own consequent accession. Paulin Paris supposes
that Rustician was attached to the Sicilian Court of Charles of Anjou, and that Edward "may
have deposited with that king the Romances of the Round Table, of which all the world was talking,
but the manuscripts of which were still very rare, especially those of the work of Helye de
Borron[7] ... whether by order, or only with permission of the King of Sicily, our Rustician
made haste to read, abridge, and re-arrange the whole, and when Edward returned to Sicily he
recovered possession of the book from which the indefatigable Pisan had extracted the contents."

But this I believe is, in so far as it passes the facts stated in Rustician's own preamble,
pure hypothesis, for nothing is cited that connects Rustician with the King of Sicily. And
if there be not some such confusion of personality as we have alluded to, in another of the
preambles, which is quoted by Dunlop as an utterance of Rustician's, that personage would seem
to claim to have been a comrade in arms of the two de Borrons. We might, therefore, conjecture
that Rustician himself had accompanied Prince Edward to Syria.[8]

[Sidenote: Character of Rustician's Romance compilations.]

40. Rustician's literary work appears from the extracts and remarks of Paulin Paris to be that
of an industrious simple man, without method or much judgment. "The haste with which he worked
is too perceptible; the adventures are told without connection; you find long stories of Tristan
followed by adventures of his father Meliadus." For the latter derangement of historical sequence
we find a quaint and ingenuous apology offered in Rustician's epilogue to Giron le Courtois:--

  "Cy fine le Maistre Rusticien de Pise son conte en louant et regraciant
  le Père le Filz et le Saint Esperit, et ung mesme Dieu, Filz de la
  Benoiste Vierge Marie, de ce qu'il m'a doné grace, sens, force, et
  mémoire, temps et lieu, de me mener à fin de si haulte et si noble
  matière come ceste-cy dont j'ay traicté les faiz et proesses recitez et
  recordez à mon livre. Et se aucun me demandoit pour quoy j'ay parlé de
  Tristan avant que de son père le Roy Meliadus, le respons que ma matière
  n'estoist pas congneue. Car je ne puis pas scavoir tout, ne mettre
  toutes mes paroles par ordre. Et ainsi fine mon conte. Amen."[9]

In a passage of these compilations the Emperor Charlemagne is asked whether in his judgment
King Meliadus or his son Tristan were the better man? The Emperor's answer is: "I should say
that the King Meliadus was the better man, and I will tell you why I say so. As far as I can
see, everything that Tristan did was done for Love, and his great feats would never have been
done but under the constraint of Love, which was his spur and goad. Now that never can be said
of King Meliadus! For what deeds he did, he did them not by dint of Love, but by dint of his
strong right arm. Purely out of his own goodness he did good, and not by constraint of Love."
"It will be seen," remarks on this Paulin Paris, "that we are here a long way removed from
the ordinary principles of Round Table Romances. And one thing besides will be manifest, viz.,
that Rusticien de Pise was no Frenchman!"[10]

The same discretion is shown even more prominently in a passage of one of his compilations,
which contains the romances of Arthur, Gyron, and Meliadus (No. 6975--see last note but one):--

"No doubt," Rustician says, "other books tell the story of the Queen Ginevra and Lancelot differently
from this; and there were certain passages between them of which the Master, in his concern
for the honour of both those personages, will say not a word." A question may still occur to
an attentive reader as to the identity of this Romance-compiler Rusticien de Pise with the
Messire Rustacians de Pise, of a solitary MS. of Polo's work (though the oldest and most authentic),
a name which appears in other copies as Rusta Pisan, Rasta Pysan, Rustichelus Civis Pisanus,
Rustico, Restazio da Pisa, Stazio da Pisa, and who is stated in the preamble to have acted
as the Traveller's scribe at Genoa.

M. Pauthier indeed[12] asserts that the French of the MS. Romances of Rusticien de Pise is
of the same barbarous character as that of the early French MS. of Polo's Book to which we
have just alluded, and which we shall show to be the nearest presentation of the work as originally
dictated by the Traveller. The language of the latter MS. is so peculiar that this would be
almost perfect evidence of the identity of the writers, if it were really the fact. A cursory
inspection which I have made of two of those MSS. in Paris, and the extracts which I have given
and am about to give, do not, however, by any means support M. Pauthier's view. Nor would that
view be consistent with the judgment of so competent an authority as Paulin Paris, implied
in his calling Rustician a nom recommandable in old French literature, and his speaking of
him as "versed in the secrets of the French Romance Tongue."[13] In fact the difference of
language in the two cases would really be a difficulty in the way of identification, if there
were room for doubt. This, however, Paulin Paris seems to have excluded finally, by calling
attention to the peculiar formula of preamble which is common to the Book of Marco Polo and
to one of the Romance compilations of Rusticien de Pise.

The former will be found in English at pp. 1, 2, of our Translation; but we give a part of
the original below[14] for comparison with the preamble to the Romances of Meliadus, Tristan,
and Lancelot, as taken from MS. 6961 (Fr. 340) of the Paris Library:--

  "Seigneurs Empereurs et Princes, Ducs et Contes et Barons et Chevaliers
  et Vavasseurs et Bourgeois, et tous les preudommes de cestui monde qui
  avez talent de vous deliter en rommans, si prenez cestui (livre) et le
  faites lire de chief en chief, si orrez toutes les grans aventure qui
  advindrent entre les Chevaliers errans du temps au Roy Uter Pendragon,
  jusques à le temps au Roy Artus son fils, et des compaignons de la Table
  Ronde. Et sachiez tout vraiment que cist livres fust translatez du livre
  Monseigneur Edouart le Roy d'Engleterre en cellui temps qu'il passa
  oultre la mer au service nostre Seigneur Damedieu pour conquester le
  Sant Sepulcre, et Maistre Rusticiens de Pise, lequel est ymaginez yci
  dessus,[15] compila ce rommant, car il en translata toutes les
  merveilleuses nouvelles et aventures qu'il trouva en celle livre et
  traita tout certainement de toutes les aventures du monde, et si sachiez
  qu'il traitera plus de Monseigneur Lancelot du Lac, et Mons'r Tristan le
  fils au Roy Meliadus de Leonnoie que d'autres, porcequ'ilz furent sans
  faille les meilleurs chevaliers qui à ce temps furent en terre; et li
  Maistres en dira de ces deux pluseurs choses et pluseurs nouvelles que
  l'en treuvera escript en tous les autres livres; et porce que le
  Maistres les trouva escript au Livre d'Engleterre."

"Certainly," Paulin Paris observes, "there is a singular analogy between these two prefaces.
And it must be remarked that the formula is not an ordinary one with translators, compilers,
or authors of the 13th and 14th centuries. Perhaps you would not find a single other example
of it."[16]

This seems to place beyond question the identity of the Romance-compiler of Prince Edward's
suite in 1270, and the Prisoner of Genoa in 1298.

[Sidenote: Further particulars concerning Rustician.]

42. In Dunlop's History of Fiction a passage is quoted from the preamble of Meliadus, as set
forth in the Paris printed edition of 1528, which gives us to understand that Rusticien de
Pise had received as a reward for some of his compositions from King Henry III. the prodigal
gift of two chateaux. I gather, however, from passages in the work of Paulin Paris that this
must certainly be one of those confusions of persons to which I have referred before, and that
the recipient of the chateaux was in reality Helye de Borron, the author of some of the originals
which Rustician manipulated.[17] This supposed incident in Rustician's scanty history must
therefore be given up.

We call this worthy Rustician or Rusticiano, as the nearest probable representation in Italian
form of the Rusticien of the Round-Table MSS. and the Rustacians of the old text of Polo. But
it is highly probable that his real name was Rustichello, as is suggested by the form Rustichelus
in the early Latin version published by the Société de Géographie. The change of one liquid
for another never goes for much in Italy,[18] and Rustichello might easily Gallicize himself
as Rusticien. In a very long list of Pisan officials during the Middle Ages I find several
bearing the name of Rustichello or Rustichelli, but no Rusticiano or Rustigiano.[19]

Respecting him we have only to add that the peace between Genoa and Venice was speedily followed
by a treaty between Genoa and Pisa. On the 31st July, 1299, a truce for twenty-five years was
signed between those two Republics. It was a very different matter from that between Genoa
and Venice, and contained much that was humiliating and detrimental to Pisa. But it embraced
the release of prisoners; and those of Meloria, reduced it is said to less than one tithe of
their original number, had their liberty at last. Among the prisoners then released no doubt
Rustician was one. But we hear of him no more.

[1] B. Marangone, Croniche della C. di Pisa, in Rerum Ital. Script. of
    Tartini, Florence, 1748, i. 563; Dal Borgo, Dissert. sopra
    l'Istoria Pisana, ii. 287.

[2] The list of the whole number is preserved in the Doria archives, and
    has been published by Sign. Jacopo D'Oria. Many of the Baptismal names
    are curious, and show how far sponsors wandered from the Church
    Calendar. Assan, Alton, Turco, Soldan seem to come of the constant
    interest in the East. Alaone, a name which remained in the family
    for several generations, I had thought certainly borrowed from the
    fierce conqueror of the Khalif (infra, p. 63). But as one Alaone,
    present at this battle, had a son also there, he must surely have been
    christened before the fame of Hulaku could have reached Genoa. (See
    La Chiesa di S. Matteo, pp. 250, seqq.)

    In documents of the kingdom of Jerusalem there are names still more
    anomalous, e.g., Gualterius Baffumeth, Joannes Mahomet. (See Cod.
    Dipl. del Sac. Milit. Ord. Gerosol. I. 2-3, 62.)

[3] Memorial. Potestat. Regiens. in Muratori, viii. 1162.

[4] See Fragm. Hist. Pisan. in Muratori, xxiv. 651, seqq.; and
    Caffaro, id. vi. 588, 594-595. The cut in the text represents a
    striking memorial of those Pisan Prisoners, which perhaps still
    survives, but which at any rate existed last century in a collection
    at Lucca. It is the seal of the prisoners as a body corporate:
    SIGILLUM UNIVERSITATIS CARCERATORUM PISANORUM JANUE DETENTORUM, and
    was doubtless used in their negotiations for peace with the Genoese
    Commissioners. It represents two of the prisoners imploring the
    Madonna, Patron of the Duomo at Pisa. It is from Manni, Osserv. Stor.
    sopra Sigilli Antichi, etc., Firenze, 1739, tom. xii. The seal is
    also engraved in Dal Borgo, op. cit. ii. 316.

[5] The Abate Spotorno in his Storia Letteraria della Liguria, II. 219,
    fixes on a Genoese philosopher called Andalo del Negro, mentioned by
    Boccaccio.

[6] I quote from Galignani's ed. of Prose Works, v. 712. This has
    "Rusticien de Puise." In this view of the fictitious character of
    the names of Rusticien and the rest, Sir Walter seems to have been
    following Ritson, as I gather from a quotation in Dunlop's H. of
    Fiction. (Liebrecht's German Version, p. 63.)

[7] Giron le Courtois, and the conclusion of Tristan.

[8] The passage runs thus as quoted (from the preamble of the
    Meliadus--I suspect in one of the old printed editions):--

    "Aussi Luces du Gau (Gas) translata en langue Françoise une partie de
    l'Hystoire de Monseigneur Tristan, et moins assez qu'il ne deust.
    Moult commença bien son livre et si ny mist tout les faicts de
    Tristan, ains la greigneur partie. Après s'en entremist Messire Gasse
    le Blond, qui estoit parent au Roy Henry, et divisa l'Hystoire de
    Lancelot du Lac, et d'autre chose ne parla il mye grandement en son
    livre. Messire Robert de Borron s'en entremist et Helye de Borron, par
    la prière du dit Robert de Borron, et pource que compaignons feusmes
    d'armes longuement, je commencay mon livre," etc. (Liebrecht's
    Dunlop, p. 80.) If this passage be authentic it would set beyond
    doubt the age of the de Borrons and the other writers of Anglo-French
    Round Table Romances, who are placed by the Hist. Littéraire de la
    France, and apparently by Fr. Michel, under Henry II. I have no means
    of pursuing the matter, and have preferred to follow Paulin Paris, who
    places them under Henry III. I notice, moreover, that the Hist.
    Litt. (xv. p. 498) puts not only the de Borrons but Rustician himself
    under Henry II.; and, as the last view is certainly an error, the
    first is probably so too.

[9] Transc. from MS. 6975 (now Fr. 355) of Paris Library.

[10] MSS. François, iii. 60-61.

[11] Ibid. 56-59.

[12] Introd. pp. lxxxvi.-vii. note.

[13] See Jour. As. sér. II. tom. xii. p. 251.

[14] "Seignors Enperaor, & Rois, Dux & Marquois, Cuens, Chevaliers &
    Bargions [for Borgiois] & toutes gens qe uoles sauoir les deuerses
    jenerasions des homes, & les deuersités des deuerses region dou
    monde, si prennés cestui lire & le feites lire & chi trouerés toutes
    les grandismes meruoilles," etc.

[15] The portrait of Rustician here referred to would have been a precious
    illustration for our book. But unfortunately it has not been
    transferred to MS. 6961, nor apparently to any other noticed by Paulin
    Paris.

[16] Jour. As. as above.

[17] See Liebrecht's Dunlop, p. 77; and MSS. François, II. 349, 353.
    The alleged gift to Rustician is also put forth by D'Israeli the Elder
    in his Amenities of Literature, 1841, I. p. 103.

[18] E.g. Geronimo, Girolamo; and garofalo, garofano; Cristoforo,
    Cristovalo; gonfalone, gonfanone, etc.

[19] See the List in Archivio Stor. Ital. VI. p. 64, seqq. A few very disconnected notices
are all that can be collected of matter properly biographical in relation to the quarter century
during which Marco Polo survived the Genoese captivity.

[Sidenote: Death of Marco's Father before 1300. Will of his brother Maffeo.]

We have seen that he would probably reach Venice in the course of August, 1299. Whether he
found his aged father alive is not known; but we know at least that a year later (31st August,
1300) Messer Nicolo was no longer in life.

This we learn from the Will of the younger Maffeo, Marco's brother, which bears the date just
named, and of which we give an abstract below.[1] It seems to imply strong regard for the testator's
brother Marco, who is made inheritor of the bulk of the property, failing the possible birth
of a son. I have already indicated some conjectural deductions from this document. I may add
that the terms of the second clause, as quoted in the note, seem to me to throw considerable
doubt on the genealogy which bestows a large family of sons upon this brother Maffeo. If he
lived to have such a family it seems improbable that the draft which he thus left in the hands
of a notary, to be converted into a Will in the event of his death (a curious example of the
validity attaching to all acts of notaries in those days), should never have been superseded,
but should actually have been so converted after his death, as the existence of the parchment
seems to prove. But for this circumstance we might suppose the Marcolino mentioned in the ensuing
paragraph to have been a son of the younger Maffeo.

Messer Maffeo, the uncle, was, we see, alive at this time. We do not know the year of his death.
But it is alluded to by Friar Pipino in the Preamble to his Translation of the Book, supposed
to have been executed about 1315-1320; and we learn from a document in the Venetian archives
(see p. 77) that it must have been previous to 1318, and subsequent to February 1309, the date
of his last Will. The Will itself is not known to be extant, but from the reference to it in
this document we learn that he left 1000 lire of public debt[2] (? imprestitorum) to a certain
Marco Polo, called Marcolino. The relationship of this Marco to old Maffeo is not stated, but
we may suspect him to have been an illegitimate son. [Marcolino was a son of Nicolo, son of
Marco the Elder; see vol. ii., Calendar, No. 6.--H. C.]

[Sidenote: Documentary notices of Polo at this time. The sobriquet of Milione.]

44. In 1302 occurs what was at first supposed to be a glimpse of Marco as a citizen, slight
and quaint enough; being a resolution on the Books of the Great Council to exempt the respectable
Marco Polo from the penalty incurred by him on account of the omission to have his water-pipe
duly inspected. But since our Marco's claims to the designation of Nobilis Vir have been established,
there is a doubt whether the providus vir or prud'-homme here spoken of may not have been rather
his namesake Marco Polo of Cannareggio or S. Geremia, of whose existence we learn from another
entry of the same year.[3] It is, however, possible that Marco the Traveller was called to
the Great Council after the date of the document in question.

We have seen that the Traveller, and after him his House and his Book, acquired from his contemporaries
the surname, or nickname rather, of Il Milione. Different writers have given different explanations
of the origin of this name; some, beginning with his contemporary Fra Jacopo d'Acqui, (supra,
p. 54), ascribing it to the family's having brought home a fortune of a million of lire, in
fact to their being millionaires. This is the explanation followed by Sansovino, Marco Barbaro,
Coronelli, and others.[4] More far-fetched is that of Fontanini, who supposes the name to have
been given to the Book as containing a great number of stories, like the Cento Novelle or the
Thousand and One Nights! But there can be no doubt that Ramusio's is the true, as it is the
natural, explanation; and that the name was bestowed on Marco by the young wits of his native
city, because of his frequent use of a word which appears to have been then unusual, in his
attempts to convey an idea of the vast wealth and magnificence of the Kaan's Treasury and Court.[5]
Ramusio has told us that he had seen Marco styled by this sobriquet in the Books of the Signory;
and it is pleasant to be able to confirm this by the next document which we cite. This is an
extract from the Books of the Great Council under both April, 1305, condoning the offence of
a certain Bonocio of Mestre in smuggling wine, for whose penalty one of the sureties had been
the NOBILIS VIR MARCHUS PAULO MILIONI.[6]

It is alleged that long after our Traveller's death there was always, in the Venetian Masques,
one individual who assumed the character of Marco Milioni, and told Munchausenlike stories
to divert the vulgar. Such, if this be true, was the honour of our prophet among the populace
of his own country.[7]

45. A little later we hear of Marco once more, as presenting a copy of his Book to a noble
Frenchman in the service of Charles of Valois.

[Sidenote: Polo's relations with Thibault de Cepoy.]

This Prince, brother of Philip the Fair, in 1301 had married Catharine, daughter and heiress
of Philip de Courtenay, titular Emperor of Constantinople, and on the strength of this marriage
had at a later date set up his own claim to the Empire of the East. To this he was prompted
by Pope Clement V., who in the beginning of 1306 wrote to Venice, stimulating that Government
to take part in the enterprise. In the same year, Charles and his wife sent as their envoys
to Venice, in connection with this matter, a noble knight called THIBAULT DE CEPOY, along with
an ecclesiastic of Chartres called Pierre le Riche, and these two succeeded in executing a
treaty of alliance with Venice, of which the original, dated 14th December, 1306, exists at
Paris. Thibault de Cepoy eventually went on to Greece with a squadron of Venetian Galleys,
but accomplished nothing of moment, and returned to his master in 1310.[8]

During the stay of Thibault at Venice he seems to have made acquaintance with Marco Polo, and
to have received from him a copy of his Book. This is recorded in a curious note which appears
on two existing MSS. of Polo's Book, viz., that of the Paris Library (10,270 or Fr. 5649),
and that of Bern, which is substantially identical in its text with the former, and is, as
I believe, a copy of it.[9] The note runs as follows:--

  "Here you have the Book of which My Lord THIEBAULT, Knight and LORD OF
  CEPOY, (whom may God assoil!) requested a copy from SIRE MARC POL,
  Burgess and Resident of the City of Venice. And the said Sire Marc Pol,
  being a very honourable Person, of high character and respect in many
  countries, because of his desire that what he had witnessed should be
  known throughout the World, and also for the honour and reverence he
  bore to the most excellent and puissant Prince my Lord CHARLES, Son of
  the King of France and COUNT OF VALOIS, gave and presented to the
  aforesaid Lord of Cepoy the first copy (that was taken) of his said Book
  after he had made the same. And very pleasing it was to him that his
  Book should be carried to the noble country of France and there made
  known by so worthy a gentleman. And from that copy which the said
  Messire Thibault, Sire de Cepoy above-named, did carry into France,
  Messire John, who was his eldest son and is the present Sire de
  Cepoy,[10] after his Father's decease did have a copy made, and that
  very first copy that was made of the Book after its being carried into
  France he did present to his very dear and dread Lord Monseigneur de
  Valois. Thereafter he gave copies of it to such of his friends as asked
  for them.

  "And the copy above-mentioned was presented by the said Sire Marc Pol to
  the said Lord de Cepoy when the latter went to Venice, on the part of
  Monseigneur de Valois and of Madame the Empress his wife, as Vicar
  General for them both in all the Territories of the Empire of
  Constantinople. And this happened in the year of the Incarnation of our
  Lord Jesus Christ one thousand three hundred and seven, and in the month
  of August."

Of the bearings of this memorandum on the literary history of Polo's Book we shall speak in
a following section.

[Sidenote: His marriage and his daughters. Marco as a merchant.]

46. When Marco married we have not been able to ascertain, but it was no doubt early in the
14th century, for in 1324, we find that he had two married daughters besides one unmarried.
His wife's Christian name was Donata, but of her family we have as yet found no assurance.
I suspect, however, that her name may have been Loredano (vide infra, p. 77).

Under 1311 we find a document which is of considerable interest, because it is the only one
yet discovered which exhibits Marco under the aspect of a practical trader. It is the judgment
of the Court of Requests upon a suit brought by the NOBLE MARCO POLO of the parish of S. Giovanni
Grisostomo against one Paulo Girardo of S. Apollinare. It appears that Marco had entrusted
to the latter as a commission agent for sale, on an agreement for half profits, a pound and
a half of musk, priced at six lire of grossi (about 22l. 10s. in value of silver) the pound.
Girardo had sold half-a-pound at that rate, and the remaining pound which he brought back was
deficient of a saggio, or, one-sixth of an ounce, but he had accounted for neither the sale
nor the deficiency. Hence Marco sues him for three lire of Grossi, the price of the half-pound
sold, and for twenty grossi as the value of the saggio. And the Judges cast the defendant in
the amount with costs, and the penalty of imprisonment in the common gaol of Venice if the
amounts were not paid within a suitable term.[11]

Again in May, 1323, probably within a year of his death, Ser Marco appears (perhaps only by
attorney), before the Doge and his judicial examiners, to obtain a decision respecting a question
touching the rights to certain stairs and porticoes in contact with his own house property,
and that obtained from his wife, in S. Giovanni Grisostomo. To this allusion has been already
made (supra, p. 31).

[Sidenote: Marco Polo's Last Will and Death.]

47. We catch sight of our Traveller only once more. It is on the 9th of January, 1324; he is
labouring with disease, under which he is sinking day by day; and he has sent for Giovanni
Giustiniani, Priest of S. Proculo and Notary, to make his Last Will and Testament. It runs thus:--

  "IN THE NAME OF THE ETERNAL GOD AMEN!

  "In the year from the Incarnation of our Lord Jesus Christ 1323, on the
  9th day of the month of January, in the first half of the 7th
  Indiction,[12] at Rialto.

  "It is the counsel of Divine Inspiration as well as the judgment of a
  provident mind that every man should take thought to make a disposition
  of his property before death become imminent, lest in the end it should
  remain without any disposition:

  "Wherefore I MARCUS PAULO of the parish of St. John Chrysostom, finding
  myself to grow daily feebler through bodily ailment, but being by the
  grace of God of a sound mind, and of senses and judgment unimpaired,
  have sent for JOHN GIUSTINIANI, Priest of S. Proculo and Notary, and
  have instructed him to draw out in complete form this my Testament:

  "Whereby I constitute as my Trustees DONATA my beloved wife, and my dear
  daughters FANTINA, BELLELA, and MORETA,[13] in order that after my
  decease they may execute the dispositions and bequests which I am about
  to make herein.

  "First of all: I will and direct that the proper Tithe be paid.[14] And
  over and above the said tithe I direct that 2000 lire of Venice denari
  be distributed as follows:[15]

  "Viz., 20 soldi of Venice grossi to the Monastery of St. Lawrence
  where I desire to be buried.

  "Also 300 lire of Venice denari to my sister-in-law YSABETA
  QUIRINO,[16] that she owes me.

  "Also 40 soldi to each of the Monasteries and Hospitals all the way
  from Grado to Capo d'Argine.[17]

  "Also I bequeath to the Convent of SS. Giovanni and Paolo, of the Order
  of Preachers, that which it owes me, and also 10 lire to Friar RENIER,
  and 5 lire to Friar BENVENUTO the Venetian, of the Order of Preachers,
  in addition to the amount of his debt to me.

  "I also bequeath 5 lire to every Congregation in Rialto, and 4 lire
  to every Guild or Fraternity of which I am a member.[18]

  "Also I bequeath 20 soldi of Venetian grossi to the Priest Giovanni
  Giustiniani the Notary, for his trouble about this my Will, and in order
  that he may pray the Lord in my behalf. And I also remit him whatever he may have gained by work at his
  own house; and over and above I bequeath him 100 lire of Venice
  denari.[19]

  "And the residue of the said 2000 lire free of tithe, I direct to be
  distributed for the good of my soul, according to the discretion of my
  trustees.

  "Out of my remaining property I bequeath to the aforesaid Donata, my
  Wife and Trustee, 8 lire of Venetian grossi annually during her life,
  for her own use, over and above her settlement, and the linen and all
  the household utensils,[20] with 3 beds garnished.

  "And all my other property movable and immovable that has not been
  disposed of [here follow some lines of mere technicality] I specially
  and expressly bequeath to my aforesaid Daughters Fantina, Bellela, and
  Moreta, freely and absolutely, to be divided equally among them. And I
  constitute them my heirs as regards all and sundry my property movable
  and immovable, and as regards all rights and contingencies tacit and
  expressed, of whatsoever kind as hereinbefore detailed, that belong to
  me or may fall to me. Save and except that before division my said
  daughter Moreta shall receive the same as each of my other daughters
  hath received for dowry and outfit [here follow many lines of
  technicalities, ending]

  "And if any one shall presume to infringe or violate this Will, may he
  incur the malediction of God Almighty, and abide bound under the
  anathema of the 318 Fathers; and farthermore he shall forfeit to my
  Trustees aforesaid five pounds of gold;[21] and so let this my Testament
  abide in force. The signature of the above named Messer Marco Paulo who
  gave instructions for this deed.

  "* I Peter Grifon, Priest, Witness.

  "* I Humfrey Barberi, Witness.

  "* I John Giustiniani, Priest of S. Proculo, and Notary, have completed
  and authenticated (this testament)."[22]

We do not know, as has been said, how long Marco survived the making of this will, but we know,
from a scanty series of documents commencing in June of the following year (1325), that he
had then been some time dead.[23]

[Sidenote: Place of Sepulture. Professed Portraits of Polo.]

48. He was buried, no doubt, according to his declared wish, in the Church of S. Lorenzo; and
indeed Sansovino bears testimony to the fact in a confused notice of our Traveller.[24] But
there does not seem to have been any monument to Marco, though the sarcophagus which had been
erected to his father Nicolo, by his own filial care, existed till near the end of the 16th
century in the porch or corridor leading to the old Church of S. Lorenzo, and bore the inscription:
"SEPULTURA DOMINI NICOLAI PAULO DE CONTRATA S. IOANNIS GRISOSTEMI." The church was renewed
from its foundations in 1592, and then, probably, the sarcophagus was cast aside and lost,
and with it all certainty as to the position of the tomb.[25]

There is no portrait of Marco Polo in existence with any claim to authenticity. The quaint
figure which we give in the Bibliography, vol. ii. p. 555, extracted from the earliest printed
edition of his book, can certainly make no such pretension. The oldest one after this is probably
a picture in the collection of Monsignor Badia at Rome, of which I am now able, by the owner's
courtesy, to give a copy. It is set down in the catalogue to Titian, but is probably a work
of 1600, or thereabouts, to which the aspect and costume belong. It is inscribed "Marcus Polvs
Venetvs Totivs Orbis et Indie Peregrator Primus." Its history unfortunately cannot be traced,
but I believe it came from a collection at Urbino. A marble statue was erected in his honour
by a family at Venice in the 17th century, and is still to be seen in the Palazzo Morosini-
Gattemburg in the Campo S. Stefano in that city. The medallion portrait on the wall of the
Sala dello Scudo in the ducal palace, and which was engraved in Bettom's "Collection of Portraits
of Illustrious Italians," is a work of imagination painted by Francesco Griselini in 1761.[26]
From this, however, was taken the medal by Fabris, which was struck in 1847 in honour of the
last meeting of the Italian Congresso Scientifico; and from the medal again is copied, I believe,
the elegant woodcut which adorns the introduction to M. Pauthier's edition, though without
any information as to its history. A handsome bust, by Augusto Gamba, has lately been placed
among the illustrious Venetians in the inner arcade of the Ducal Palace.[27] There is also
a mosaic portrait of Polo, opposite the similar portrait of Columbus in the Municipio at Genoa.

[Sidenote: Further History of the Polo Family.]

49. From the short series of documents recently alluded to,[28] we gather all that we know
of the remaining history of Marco Polo's immediate family. We have seen in his will an indication
that the two elder daughters, Fantina and Bellela, were married before his death. In 1333 we
find the youngest, Moreta, also a married woman, and Bellela deceased. In 1336 we find that
their mother Donata had died in the interval. We learn, too, that Fantina's husband was MARCO
BRAGADINO, and Moreta's, RANUZZO DOLFINO.[29] The name of Bellela's husband does not appear.

Fantina's husband is probably the Marco Bragadino, son of Pietro, who in 1346 is mentioned
to have been sent as Provveditore-Generale to act against the Patriarch of Acquileia.[30] And
in 1379 we find Donna Fantina herself, presumably in widowhood, assessed as a resident of S.
Giovanni Grisostomo, on the Estimo or forced loan for the Genoese war, at 1300 lire, whilst
Pietro Bragadino of the same parish--her son as I imagine--is assessed at 1500 lire.[31] [See
vol. ii., Calendar.]

The documents show a few other incidents which may be briefly noted. In 1326 we have the record
of a charge against one Zanino Grioni for insulting Donna Moreta in the Campo of San Vitale;
a misdemeanour punished by the Council of Forty with two months' imprisonment.

In March, 1328, Marco Polo, called Marcolino, of St. John Chrysostom (see p. 66), represents
before the Domini Advocatores of the Republic that certain imprestita that had belonged to
the late Maffeo Polo the Elder, had been alienated and transferred in May 1318, by the late
Marco Polo of St. John Chrysostom and since his death by his heirs, without regard to the rights
of the said Marcolino, to whom the said Messer Maffeo had bequeathed 1000 lire by his will
executed on 6th February, 1308 (i.e. 1309). The Advocatores find that the transfer was to that
extent unjust and improper, and they order that to the same extent it should be revoked and
annulled. Two months later the Lady Donata makes rather an unpleasant figure before the Council
of Forty. It would seem that on the claim of Messer Bertuccio Quirino a mandate of sequestration
had been issued by the Court of Requests affecting certain articles in the Ca' Polo; including
two bags of money which had been tied and sealed, but left in custody of the Lady Donata. The
sum so sealed was about 80 lire of grossi (300l. in silver value), but when opened only 45
lire and 22 grossi (about 170l.) were found therein, and the Lady was accused of abstracting
the balance non bono modo. Probably she acted, as ladies sometimes do, on a strong sense of
her own rights, and a weak sense of the claims of law. But the Council pronounced against her,
ordering restitution, and a fine of 200 lire over and above "ut ceteris transeat in exemplum."[32]

It will have been seen that there is nothing in the amounts mentioned in Marco's will to bear
out the large reports as to his wealth, though at the same time there is no positive ground
for a deduction to the contrary.[33]

The mention in two of the documents of Agnes Loredano as the sister of the Lady Donata suggests
that the latter may have belonged to the Loredano family, but as it does not appear whether
Agnes was maid or wife this remains uncertain.[34]

Respecting the further history of the family there is nothing certain, nor can we give unhesitating
faith to Ramusio's statement that the last male descendant of the Polos of S. Giovanni Grisostomo
was Marco, who died Castellano of Verona in 1417 (according to others, 1418, or 1425),[35]
and that the family property then passed to Maria (or Anna, as she is styled in a MS. statement
furnished to me from Venice), who was married in 1401 to Benedetto Cornaro, and again in 1414
to Azzo Trevisan. Her descendant in the fourth generation by the latter was Marc Antonio Trevisano,[36]
who was chosen Doge in 1553.

The genealogy recorded by Marco Barbaro, as drawn up from documents by Ramusio, makes the Castellano
of Verona a grandson of our Marco by a son Maffeo, whom we may safely pronounce not to have
existed, and makes Maria the daughter of Maffeo, Marco's brother--that is to say, makes a lady
marry in 1414 and have children, whose father was born in 1271 at the very latest! The genealogy
is given in several other ways, but as I have satisfied myself that they all (except perhaps
this of Barbaro's, which we see to be otherwise erroneous) confound together the two distinct
families of Polo of S. Geremia and Polo of S. Giov. Grisostomo, I reserve my faith, and abstain
from presenting them. Assuming that the Marco or Marcolino Polo, spoken of in the preceding
page, was a near relation (as is probable, though perhaps an illegitimate one), he is the only
male descendant of old Andrea of San Felice whom we can indicate as having survived Marco himself;
and from a study of the links in the professed genealogies I think it not unlikely that both
Marco the Castellano of Verona and Maria Trevisan belonged to the branch of S. Geremia.[37]
[See vol. ii., App. C, p. 510.]

[49. bis.--It is interesting to note some of the reliques left by our traveller.

I. The unfortunate Doge of Venice, Marino Faliero, seems to have possessed many souvenirs of
Marco Polo, and among them two manuscripts, one in the handwriting of his celebrated fellow-citizen(?),
and one adorned with miniatures. M. Julius von Schlosser has reprinted (Die ältesten Medaillen
und die Antike, Bd. XVIII., Jahrb. d. Kunsthist. Samml. d. Allerhöchsten Kaiserhauses, Vienna,
1897, pp. 42-43) from the Bulletino di arti, industrie e curiosità veneziane, III., 1880-81,
p. 101,[38] the inventory of the curiosities kept in the "Red Chamber" of Marino Faliero's
palace in the Parish of the SS. Apostles; we give the following abstract of it:--

  Anno ab incarnacione domini nostri Jesu Christi 1351° indictione sexta
  mensis aprilis. Inuentarium rerum qui sunt in camera rubea domi
  habitationis clarissimi domini MARINI FALETRO de confinio SS.
  Apostolorum, scriptum per me Johannem, presbiterum, dicte ecclesie.

  Item alia capsaleta cum ogiis auri et argenti, inter quos unum anulum
  con inscriptione que dicit: Ciuble Can Marco Polo, et unum torques cum
  multis animalibus Tartarorum sculptis, que res donum dedit predictus
  MARCUS cuidam Faletrorum.

  Item 2 capsalete de corio albo cum variis rebus auri et argenti, quas
  habuit praedictus MARCUS a Barbarorum rege.

  Item 1 ensem mirabilem, qui habet 3 enses simul, quem habuit in suis
  itineribus praedictus MARCUS.

  Item 1 tenturam de pannis indicis, quam habuit praedictus MARCUS.

  Item de itineribus MARCI praedicti liber in corio albo cum multis
  figuris.

  Item aliud volumen quod vocatur de locis mirabilibus Tartarorum,
  scriptum manu praedicti MARCI.

II. There is kept at the Louvre, in the very valuable collection of China Ware given by M.
Ernest Grandidier, a white porcelain incense-burner said to come from Marco Polo. This incense-burner,
which belonged to Baron Davillier, who received it, as a present, from one of the keepers of
the Treasury of St. Mark's at Venice, is an octagonal ting from the Fo-kien province, and of
the time of the Sung Dynasty. By the kind permission of M. P. Grandidier, we reproduce it from
Pl. II. 6, of the Céramique chinoise, Paris, 1894, published by this learned amateur.--H. C.]

[1] 1. The Will is made in prospect of his voyage to Crete.

    2. He had drafted his will with his own hand, sealed the draft, and
    made it over to Pietro Pagano, priest of S. Felice and Notary, to draw
    out a formal testament in faithful accordance therewith in case of the
    Testator's death; and that which follows is the substance of the said
    draft rendered from the vernacular into Latin. ("Ego Matheus Paulo ...
    volens ire in Cretam, ne repentinus casus hujus vite fragilis me
    subreperet intestatum, mea propria manu meum scripsi et condidi
    testamentum, rogans Petrum Paganum ecclesie Scti. Felicis presbiterum
    et Notarium, sana mente et integro consilio, ut, secundum ipsius
    scripturam quam sibi tunc dedi meo sigillo munitam, meum scriberet
    testamentum, si me de hoc seculo contigeret pertransire; cujus
    scripture tenor translato vulgari in latinum per omnia talis est.")

    3. Appoints as Trustees Messer Maffeo Polo his uncle, Marco Polo his
    brother, Messer Nicolo Secreto (or Sagredo) his father-in-law, and
    Felix Polo his cousin (consanguineum).

    4. Leaves 20 soldi to each of the Monasteries from Grado to Capo
    d'Argine; and 150 lire to all the congregations of Rialto, on
    condition that the priests of these maintain an annual service in
    behalf of the souls of his father, mother, and self.

    5. To his daughter Fiordelisa 2000 lire to marry her withal. To be
    invested in safe mortgages in Venice, and the interest to go to her.

    Also leaves her the interest from 1000 lire of his funds in Public
    Debt (? de meis imprestitis) to provide for her till she marries.
    After her marriage this 1000 lire and its interest shall go to his
    male heir if he has one, and failing that to his brother Marco.

    6. To his wife Catharine 400 lire and all her clothes as they stand
    now. To the Lady Maroca 100 lire.

    7. To his natural daughter Pasqua 400 lire to marry her withal. Or,
    if she likes to be a nun, 200 lire shall go to her convent and the
    other 200 shall purchase securities for her benefit. After her death
    these shall come to his male heir, or failing that be sold, and the
    proceeds distributed for the good of the souls of his father, mother,
    and self.

    8. To his natural brothers Stephen and Giovannino he leaves 500
    lire. If one dies the whole to go to the other. If both die before
    marrying, to go to his male heir; failing such, to his brother Marco
    or his male heir.

    9. To his uncle Giordano Trevisano 200 lire. To Marco de Tumba 100.
    To Fiordelisa, wife of Felix Polo, 100. To Maroca, the daughter of the
    late Pietro Trevisano, living at Negropont, 100. To Agnes, wife of
    Pietro Lion, 100; and to Francis, son of the late Pietro Trevisano, in
    Negropont, 100.

    10. To buy Public Debt producing an annual 20 lire ai grossi to be
    paid yearly to Pietro Pagano, Priest of S. Felice, who shall pray for
    the souls aforesaid: on death of said Pietro the income to go to
    Pietro's cousin Lionardo, Clerk of S. Felice; and after him always to
    the senior priest of S. Giovanni Grisostomo with the same obligation.

    11. Should his wife prove with child and bear a son or sons they shall
    have his whole property not disposed of. If a daughter, she shall have
    the same as Fiordelisa.

    12. If he have no male heir his Brother Marco shall have the
    Testator's share of his Father's bequest, and 2000 lire besides.
    Cousin Nicolo shall have 500 lire, and Uncle Maffeo 500.

    13. Should Daughter Fiordelisa die unmarried her 2000 lire and
    interest to go to his male heir, and failing such to Brother Marco and
    his male heir. But in that case Marco shall pay 500 lire to Cousin
    Nicolo or his male heir.

    14. Should his wife bear him a male heir or heirs, but these should
    die under age, the whole of his undisposed property shall go to
    Brother Marco or his male heir. But in that case 500 lire shall be
    paid to Cousin Nicolo.

    15. Should his wife bear a daughter and she die unmarried, her 2000
    lire and interest shall go to Brother Marco, with the same
    stipulation in behalf of Cousin Nicolo.

    16. Should the whole amount of his property between cash and goods not
    amount to 10,000 lire (though he believes he has fully as much), his
    bequests are to be ratably diminished, except those to his own
    children which he does not wish diminished. Should any legatee die
    before receiving the bequest, its amount shall fall to the Testator's
    heir male, and failing such, the half to go to Marco or his male heir,
    and the other half to be distributed for the good of the souls
    aforesaid.

    The witnesses are Lionardo priest of S. Felice, Lionardo clerk of the
    same, and the Notary Pietro Pagano priest of the same.

[2] According to Romanin (I. 321) the lira dei grossi was also called
    Lira d'imprestidi, and if the lire here are to be so taken, the
    sum will be 10,000 ducats, the largest amount by far that occurs in
    any of these Polo documents, unless, indeed, the 1000 lire in § 5 of
    Maffeo Junior's Will be the like; but I have some doubt if such lire
    are intended in either case.

[3] "(Resolved) That grace be granted to the respectable MARCO PAULO,
    relieving him of the penalty he has incurred for neglecting to have
    his water-pipe examined, seeing that he was ignorant of the order on
    that subject." (See Appendix C. No. 3.) The other reference, to M.
    Polo, of S. Geremia, runs as follows:--

    [MCCCII. indic. XV. die VIII. Macii q fiat gra Guillo aurifici q ipe
    absolvat a pena i qua dicit icurisse p uno spotono sibi iueto veuiedo
    de Mestre ppe domu Maci Pauli de Canareglo ui descenderat ad
    bibendu.]

    "That grace be granted to William the Goldsmith, relieving him of the
    penalty which he is stated to have incurred on account of a spontoon
    (spontono, a loaded bludgeon) found upon him near the house of MARCO
    PAULO of Cannareggio, where he had landed to drink on his way from
    Mestre." (See Cicogna, V. p. 606.)

[4] Sansovino, Venezia, Città Nobilissima e Singolare, Descritta, etc.,
    Ven. 1581, f. 236 v.; Barbaro, Alberi; Coronelli, Allante Veneto,
    I. 19.

[5] The word Millio occurs several times in the Chronicle of the Doge
    Andrea Dandolo, who wrote about 1342; and Milion occurs at least
    once (besides the application of the term to Polo) in the History of
    Giovanni Villani; viz. when he speaks of the Treasury of Avignon:--
    "diciotto milioni di fiorini d'oro ec. che ogni milione è mille
    migliaja di fiorini d' oro la valuta." (xi. 20, § 1; Ducange, and
    Vocab. Univ. Ital.). But the definition, thought necessary by
    Villani, in itself points to the use of the word as rare. Domilion
    occurs in the estimated value of houses at Venice in 1367, recorded in
    the Cronaca Magna in St. Mark's Library. (Romanin, III. 385).

[6] "Also; that Pardon be granted to Bonocio of Mestre for that 152 lire
     in which he stood condemned by the Captains of the Posts, on account
     of wine smuggled by him, in such wise: to wit, that he was to pay the
     said fine in 4 years by annual instalments of one fourth, to be
     retrenched from the pay due to him on his journey in the suite of our
     ambassadors, with assurance that anything then remaining deficient of
     his instalments should be made good by himself or his securities. And
     his securities are the Nobles Pietro Morosini and MARCO PAULO
    MILION." Under Milion is written in an ancient hand "mortuus."
    (See Appendix C, No. 4.)

[7] Humboldt tells this (Examen, II. 221), alleging Jacopo d'Acqui as
    authority; and Libri (H. des Sciences Mathématiques, II. 149),
    quoting Doglioni, Historia Veneziana. But neither authority bears
    out the citations. The story seems really to come from Amoretti's
    commentary on the Voyage du Cap. L. F. Maldonado, Plaisance, 1812,
    p. 67. Amoretti quotes as authority Pignoria, Degli Dei Antichi.

    An odd revival of this old libel was mentioned to me recently by Mr.
    George Moffatt. When he was at school it was common among the boys to
    express incredulity by the phrase: "Oh, what a Marco Polo!"

[8] Thibault, according to Ducange, was in 1307 named Grand Master of the
    Arblasteers of France; and Buchon says his portrait is at Versailles
    among the Admirals (No. 1170). Ramon de Muntaner fell in with the
    Seigneur de Cepoy in Greece, and speaks of him as "but a Captain of
    the Wind, as his Master was King of the Wind." (See Ducange, H. de
    l'Empire de Const. sous les Emp. François, Venice ed. 1729, pp. 109,
    110; Buchon, Chroniques Etrangères, pp. lv. 467-470.)

[9] The note is not found in the Bodleian MS., which is the third known
    one of this precise type.

[10] Messire Jean, the son of Thibault, is mentioned in the accounts of
    the latter in the Chambre des Comptes at Paris, as having been with
    his Father in Romania. And in 1344 he commanded a confederate
    Christian armament sent to check the rising power of the Turks, and
    beat a great Turkish fleet in the Greek seas. (Heyd. I. 377;
    Buchon, 468.)

[11] The document is given in Appendix C, No. 5. It was found by Comm.
    Barozzi, the Director of the Museo Civico, when he had most kindly
    accompanied me to aid in the search for certain other documents in the
    archives of the Casa di Ricovero, or Poor House of Venice. These
    archives contain a great mass of testamentary and other documents,
    which probably have come into that singular depository in connection
    with bequests to public charities.

    The document next mentioned was found in as strange a site, viz., the
    Casa degli Esposti or Foundling Hospital, which possesses similar
    muniments. This also I owe to Comm. Barozzi, who had noted it some
    years before, when commencing an arrangement of the archives of the
    Institution.

[12] The Legal Year at Venice began on the 1st of March. And 1324 was 7th
    of the Indiction. Hence the date is, according to the modern Calendar,
    1324.

[13] Marsden says of Moreta and Fantina, the only daughters named by
    Ramusio, that these may be thought rather familiar terms of endearment
    than baptismal names. This is a mistake however. Fantina is from one
    of the parochial saints of Venice, S. Fantino, and the male name was
    borne by sundry Venetians, among others by a son of Henry Dandolo's.
    Moreta is perhaps a variation of Maroca, which seems to have been a
    family name among the Polos. We find also the male name of Bellela,
    written Bellello, Bellero, Belletto.

[14] The Decima went to the Bishop of Castello (eventually converted
    into Patriarch of Venice) to divide between himself, the Clergy, the
    Church, and the Poor. It became a source of much bad feeling, which
    came to a head after the plague of 1348, when some families had to pay
    the tenth three times within a very short space. The existing Bishop
    agreed to a composition, but his successor Paolo Foscari (1367)
    claimed that on the death of every citizen an exact inventory should
    be made, and a full tithe levied. The Signory fought hard with the
    Bishop, but he fled to the Papal Court and refused all concession.
    After his death in 1376 a composition was made for 5500 ducats yearly.
    (Romanin, II. 406; III. 161, 165.)

[15] There is a difficulty about estimating the value of these sums from
    the variety of Venice pounds or lire. Thus the Lira dei piccoli
    was reckoned 3 to the ducat or zecchin, the Lira ai grossi 2 to the
    ducat, but the Lira dei grossi or Lira d'imprestidi was equal to
    10 ducats, or (allowing for higher value of silver then) about 3l.
    15s.; a little more than the equivalent of the then Pound sterling.
    This last money is specified in some of the bequests, as in the 20
    soldi (or 1 lira) to St. Lorenzo, and in the annuity of 8 lire to
    Polo's wife; but it seems doubtful what money is meant when libra
    only or libra denariorum venetorum is used. And this doubt is not
    new. Gallicciolli relates that in 1232 Giacomo Menotto left to the
    Church of S. Cassiano as an annuity libras denariorum venetorum
    quatuor. Till 1427 the church received the income as of lire dei
    piccoli, but on bringing a suit on the subject it was adjudged that
    lire ai grossi were to be understood. (Delle Mem. Venet. Ant. II.
    18.) This story, however, cuts both ways, and does not decide our
    doubt.

[16] The form of the name Ysabeta aptly illustrates the transition that
    seems so strange from Elizabeth into the Isabel that the Spaniards
    made of it.

[17] I.e. the extent of what was properly called the Dogado, all along the
    Lagoons from Grado on the extreme east to Capo d'Argine (Cavarzere at
    the mouth of the Adige) on the extreme west.

[18] The word rendered Guilds is "Scholarum." The crafts at Venice
    were united in corporations called Fraglie or Scholae, each of
    which had its statutes, its head called the Gastald, and its place
    of meeting under the patronage of some saint. These acted as societies
    of mutual aid, gave dowries to poor girls, caused masses to be
    celebrated for deceased members, joined in public religious
    processions, etc., nor could any craft be exercised except by members
    of such a guild. (Romanin, I. 390.)

[19] A few years after Ser Marco's death (1328) we find the Great Council
    granting to this Peter the rights of a natural Venetian, as having
    been a long time at Venice, and well-conducted. (See App. C, Calendar
    of Documents, No. 13.) This might give some additional colour to M.
    Pauthier's supposition that this Peter the Tartar was a faithful
    servant who had accompanied Messer Marco from the East 30 years
    before. But yet the supposition is probably unfounded. Slavery and
    slave-trade were very prevalent at Venice in the Middle Ages, and V.
    Lazari, a writer who examined a great many records connected
    therewith, found that by far the greater number of slaves were
    described as Tartars. There does not seem to be any clear
    information as to how they were imported, but probably from the
    factories on the Black Sea, especially Tana after its establishment.

    A tax of 5 ducats per head was set on the export of slaves in 1379,
    and as the revenue so received under the Doge Tommaso Mocenigo
    (1414-1423) amounted (so says Lazari) to 50,000 ducats, the startling
    conclusion is that 10,000 slaves yearly were exported! This it is
    difficult to accept. The slaves were chiefly employed in domestic
    service, and the records indicate the women to have been about twice
    as numerous as the men. The highest price recorded is 87 ducats paid
    for a Russian girl sold in 1429. All the higher prices are for young
    women; a significant circumstance. With the existence of this system
    we may safely connect the extraordinary frequence of mention of
    illegitimate children in Venetian wills and genealogies. (See Lazari,
    Del Traffico degli Schiavi in Venezia, etc., in Miscellanea di
    Storia Italiana, I. 463 seqq.) In 1308 the Khan Toktai of Kipchak
    (see Polo, II. 496), hearing that the Genoese and other Franks were in
    the habit of carrying off Tartar children to sell, sent a force
    against Caffa, which was occupied without resistance, the people
    taking refuge in their ships. The Khan also seized the Genoese
    property in Sarai. (Heyd. II. 27.)

[20] "Stracium et omne capud massariciorum"; in Scotch phrase "napery
    and plenishing." A Venetian statute of 1242 prescribes that a bequest
    of massariticum shall be held to carry to the legatee all articles
    of common family use except those of gold and silver plate or
    jeweller's work. (See Ducange, sub voce.) Stracci is still used
    technically in Venice for "household linen."

[21] In the original aureas libras quinque. According to Marino Sanudo
    the Younger (Vite dei Dogi in Muratori xxii. 521) this should be
    pounds or lire of aureole, the name of a silver coin struck by
    and named after the Doge Aurio Mastropietro (1178-1192): "Ancora fu
    fatta una Moneta d'argento che si chiamava Aureola per la casata del
    Doge; è quella Moneta che i Notai de Venezia mettevano di pena sotto
    i loro instrumenti." But this was a vulgar error. An example of the
    penalty of 5 pounds of gold is quoted from a decree of 960; and the
    penalty is sometimes expressed "auri purissimi librae 5." A coin
    called the lira d'oro or redonda is alleged to have been in use
    before the ducat was introduced. (See Gallicciolli, II. 16.) But
    another authority seems to identify the lira a oro with the lira
    dei grossi. (See Zanetti, Nuova Racc. delle Monete &c. d'Italia,
    1775. I. 308)

[22] We give a photographic reduction of the original document. This, and
    the other two Polo Wills already quoted, had come into the possession
    of the Noble Filippo Balbi, and were by him presented in our own time
    to the St. Mark's Library. They are all on parchment, in writing of
    that age, and have been officially examined and declared to be
    originals. They were first published by Cicogna, Iscrizioni
    Veneziane, III. 489-493. We give Marco's in the original language,
    line for line with the facsimile, in Appendix C.

    There is no signature, as may be seen, except those of the Witnesses
    and the Notary. The sole presence of a Notary was held to make a deed
    valid, and from about the middle of the 13th century in Italy it is
    common to find no actual signature (even of witnesses) except that of
    the Notary. The peculiar flourish before the Notary's name is what is
    called the Tabellionato, a fanciful distinctive monogram which each
    Notary adopted. Marco's Will is unfortunately written in a very cramp
    hand with many contractions. The other two Wills (of Marco the Elder
    and Maffeo) are in beautiful and clear Gothic penmanship.

[23] We have noticed formerly (pp. 14-15, note) the recent discovery
    of a document bearing what was supposed to be the autograph signature
    of our Traveller. The document in question is the Minute of a
    Resolution of the Great Council, attested by the signatures of three
    members, of whom the last is MARCUS PAULLO. But the date alone, 11th
    March, 1324, is sufficient to raise the gravest doubts as to this
    signature being that of our Marco. And further examination, as I learn
    from a friend at Venice, has shown that the same name occurs in
    connection with analogous entries on several subsequent occasions up
    to the middle of the century. I presume that this Marco Polo is the
    same that is noticed in our Appendix B, II. as a voter in the
    elections of the Doges Marino Faliero and Giovanni Gradenigo. I have
    not been able to ascertain his relation to either branch of the Polo
    family; but I suspect that he belonged to that of S. Geremia, of which
    there was certainly a Marco about the middle of the century.

[24] "Under the angiporta (of S. Lorenzo) [see plate] is buried that
    Marco Polo surnamed Milione, who wrote the Travels in the New World,
    and who was the first before Christopher Columbus to discover new
    countries. No faith was put in him because of the extravagant things
    that he recounted; but in the days of our Fathers Columbus augmented
    belief in him, by discovering that part of the world which eminent men
    had heretofore judged to be uninhabited." (Venezia ... Descritta,
    etc., f. 23 v.) Marco Barbaro attests the same inscription in his
    Genealogies (copy in Museo Civico at Venice).

[25] Cicogna, II. 385.

[26] Lazari, xxxi.

[27] In the first edition I noticed briefly a statement that had reached
    me from China that, in the Temple at Canton vulgarly called "of the
    500 gods," there is a foreign figure which from the name attached had
    been supposed to represent Marco Polo! From what I have heard from Mr.
    Wylie, a very competent authority, this is nonsense. The temple
    contains 500 figures of Arhans or Buddhist saints, and one of these
    attracts attention from having a hat like a sailor's straw hat. Mr.
    Wylie had not remarked the name. [A model of this figure was exhibited
    at Venice at the international Geographical Congress, in 1881. I give
    a reproduction of this figure and of the Temple of 500 Genii (Fa Lum
    Sze) at Canton, from drawings by Félix Régamey made after photographs
    sent to me by my late friend, M. Camille Imbault Huart, French Consul
    at Canton.--H. C.]

[28] These documents are noted in Appendix C, Nos. 9-12, 14, 17, 18.

[29] I can find no Ranuzzo Dolfino among the Venetian genealogies, but
    several Reniers. And I suspect Ranuzzo may be a form of the latter
    name.

[30] Cappellari (see p. 77, footnote) under Bragadino.

[31] Ibid. and Gallicciolli, II. 146.

[32] The lire of the fine are not specified; but probably ai grossi,
    which would be = 37l. 10s.; not, we hope, dei grossi!

[33] Yet, if the family were so wealthy as tradition represents, it is
    strange that Marco's brother Maffeo, after receiving a share of his
    father's property, should have possessed barely 10,000 lire,
    probably equivalent to 5000 ducats at most. (See p. 65, supra.)

[34] An Agnes Loredano, Abbess of S. Maria delle Vergini, died in 1397.
    (Cicogna, V. 91 and 629.) The interval of 61 years makes it somewhat
    improbable that it should be the same.

[35] In the Museo Civico (No. 2271 of the Cicogna collection) there is a
    commission addressed by the Doge Michiel Steno in 1408, "Nobili Viro
    Marcho Paulo," nominating him Podestà of Arostica (a Castello of the
    Vicentino). This is probably the same Marco.

[36] The descent runs: (1) Azzo = Maria Polo; (2) Febo, Captain at Padua;
    (3) Zaccaria, Senator; (4) Domenico, Procurator of St. Mark's; (5)
    Marc' Antonio, Doge (Cappellari, Campidoglio Veneto, MS. St.
    Mark's Lib.).

    Marc' Antonio nolebat ducari and after election desired to renounce.
    His friends persuaded him to retain office, but he lived scarcely a
    year after. (Cicogna, IV. 566.) [See p. 8.]

[37] In Appendix B will be found tabulated all the facts that seem to be
    positively ascertained as to the Polo genealogies.

    In the Venetian archives occurs a procuration executed by the Doge in
    favour of the Nobilis Vir SER MARCO PAULO that he may present
    himself before the king of Sicily; under date, Venice 9th November,
    1342. And some years later we have in the Sicilian Archives an order
    by King Lewis of Sicily, directed to the Maestri Procuratori of
    Messina, which grants to MARCO POLO of Venice, on account of services
    rendered to the king's court, the privilege of free import and export
    at the port of Messina, without payment of customs of goods to the
    amount annually of 20 ounces. Dated in Catania 13th January, 1346
    (1347?).

    For the former notice I am indebted to the courtesy of Signor B.
    Cecchetti of the Venetian Archives, who cites it as "transcribed in
    the Commemor. IV. p. 5"; for the latter to that of the Abate Carini
    of the Reale Archivio at Palermo; it is in Archivio della Regia
    Cancellaria 1343-1357, f. 58.

    The mission of this MARCO POLO is mentioned also in a rescript of the
    Sicilian king Peter II., dated Messina, 14th November, 1340, in
    reference to certain claims of Venice, about which the said Marco
    appeared as the Doge's ambassador. This is printed in F. TESTA, De
    Vitâ et Rebus Gestis Federici II., Siciliae Regis, Panormi, 1775, pp.
    267 seqq. The Sicilian Antiquary Rosario Gregorio identifies the Envoy
    with our Marco, dead long before. (See Opere scelte del Canon Ros.
    Gregorio, Palermo, 1845, 3za ediz., p. 352.)

    It is possible that this Marco, who from the latter notice seems to
    have been engaged in mercantile affairs, may have been the Marcolino
    above mentioned, but it is perhaps on the whole more probable that
    this nobilis vir is the Marco spoken of in the note at p. 74. I have seen this article.--H. C.

IX. MARCO POLO'S BOOK; AND THE LANGUAGE IN WHICH IT WAS FIRST WRITTEN.

[Sidenote: General statement of what the Book contains.]

50. The Book itself consists essentially of Two Parts. First, of a Prologue, as it is termed,
the only part which is actual personal narrative, and which relates, in a very interesting
but far too brief manner, the circumstances which led the two elder Polos to the Kaan's Court,
and those of their second journey with Mark, and of their return to Persia through the Indian
Seas. Secondly, of a long series of chapters of very unequal length, descriptive of notable
sights and products, of curious manners and remarkable events, relating to the different nations
and states of Asia, but, above all, to the Emperor Kúblái, his court, wars, and administration.
A series of chapters near the close treats in a verbose and monotonous manner of sundry wars
that took place between the various branches of the House of Chinghiz in the latter half of
the 13th century. This last series is either omitted or greatly curtailed in all the copies
and versions except one; a circumstance perfectly accounted for by the absence of interest
as well as value in the bulk of these chapters. Indeed, desirous though I have been to give
the Traveller's work complete, and sharing the dislike that every man who uses books must bear
to abridgments, I have felt that it would be sheer waste and dead-weight to print these chapters
in full.

This second and main portion of the Work is in its oldest forms undivided, the chapters running
on consecutively to the end.[1] In some very early Italian or Venetian version, which Friar
Pipino translated into Latin, it was divided into three Books, and this convenient division
has generally been adhered to. We have adopted M. Pauthier's suggestion in making the final
series of chapters, chiefly historical, into a Fourth.

[Sidenote: Language of the original Work.]

51. As regards the language in which Marco's Book was first committed to writing, we have seen
that Ramusio assumed, somewhat arbitrarily, that it was Latin; Marsden supposed it to have
been the Venetian dialect; Baldelli Boni first showed, in his elaborate edition (Florence,
1827), by arguments that have been illustrated and corroborated by learned men since, that
it was French.

That the work was originally written in some Italian dialect was a natural presumption, and
slight contemporary evidence can be alleged in its favour; for Fra Pipino, in the Latin version
of the work, executed whilst Marco still lived, describes his task as a translation de vulgari.
And in one MS. copy of the same Friar Pipino's Chronicle, existing in the library at Modena,
he refers to the said version as made "ex vulgari idiomate Lombardico." But though it may seem
improbable that at so early a date a Latin version should have been made at second hand, I
believe this to have been the case, and that some internal evidence also is traceable that
Pipino translated not from the original but from an Italian version of the original.

The oldest MS. (it is supposed) in any Italian dialect is one in the Magliabecchian Library
at Florence, which is known in Italy as L'Ottima, on account of the purity of its Tuscan, and
as Della Crusca from its being one of the authorities cited by that body in their Vocabulary.[2]
It bears on its face the following note in Italian:--

  "This Book called the Navigation of Messer Marco Polo, a noble Citizen
  of Venice, was written in Florence by Michael Ormanni my great
  grandfather by the Mother's side, who died in the Year of Grace One
  Thousand Three Hundred and Nine; and my mother brought it into our
  Family of Del Riccio, and it belongs to me Pier del Riccio and to my
  Brother; 1452."

As far as I can learn, the age which this note implies is considered to be supported by the
character of the MS. itself.[3] If it be accepted, the latter is a performance going back to
within eleven years at most of the first dictation of the Travels. At first sight, therefore,
this would rather argue that the original had been written in pure Tuscan. But when Baldelli
came to prepare it for the press he found manifest indications of its being a Translation from
the French. Some of these he has noted; others have followed up the same line of comparison.
We give some detailed examples in a note.[4]

[Sidenote: Old French Text published by the Société de Géographie.]

52. The French Text that we have been quoting, published by the Geographical Society of Paris
in 1824, affords on the other hand the strongest corresponding proof that it is an original
and not a Translation. Rude as is the language of the manuscript (Fr. 1116, formerly No. 7367,
of Paris Library), it is, in the correctness of the proper names, and the intelligible exhibition
of the itineraries, much superior to any form of the Work previously published.

The language is very peculiar. We are obliged to call it French, but it is not "Frenche of
Paris." "Its style," says Paulin Paris, "is about as like that of good French authors of the
age, as in our day the natural accent of a German, an Englishman, or an Italian, is like that
of a citizen of Paris or Blois." The author is at war with all the practices of French grammar;
subject and object, numbers, moods, and tenses, are in consummate confusion. Even readers of
his own day must at times have been fain to guess his meaning. Italian words are constantly
introduced, either quite in the crude or rudely Gallicized.[5] And words also, we may add,
sometimes slip in which appear to be purely Oriental, just as is apt to happen with Anglo-Indians
in these days.[6] All this is perfectly consistent with the supposition that we have in this
MS. a copy at least of the original words as written down by Rusticiano a Tuscan, from the
dictation of Marco an Orientalized Venetian, in French, a language foreign to both.

But the character of the language as French is not its only peculiarity. There is in the style,
apart from grammar or vocabulary, a rude angularity, a rough dramatism like that of oral narrative;
there is a want of proportion in the style of different parts, now over curt, now diffuse and
wordy, with at times even a hammering reiteration; a constant recurrence of pet colloquial
phrases (in which, however, other literary works of the age partake); a frequent change in
the spelling of the same proper names, even when recurring within a few lines, as if caught
by ear only; a literal following to and fro of the hesitations of the narrator; a more general
use of the third person in speaking of the Traveller, but an occasional lapse into the first.
All these characteristics are strikingly indicative of the unrevised product of dictation,
and many of them would necessarily disappear either in translation or in a revised copy.

Of changes in representing the same proper name, take as an example that
of the Kaan of Persia whom Polo calls Quiacatu (Kaikhátú), but also
Acatu, Catu, and the like. (See vol. ii. p. 487
  seqq.)

And so on.

As a specimen of tautology and hammering reiteration the following can scarcely be surpassed.
The Traveller is speaking of the Chughi, i.e. the Indian Jogis:--

  "And there are among them certain devotees, called Chughi; these are
  longer-lived than the other people, for they live from 150 to 200 years;
  and yet they are so hale of body that they can go and come wheresoever
  they please, and do all the service needed for their monastery or their
  idols, and do it just as well as if they were younger; and that comes of
  the great abstinence that they practise, in eating little food and only
  what is wholesome; for they use to eat rice and milk more than anything
  else. And again I tell you that these Chughi who live such a long time
  as I have told you, do also eat what I am going to tell you, and you
  will think it a great matter. For I tell you that they take quicksilver
  and sulphur, and mix them together, and make a drink of them, and then
  they drink this, and they say that it adds to their life; and in fact
  they do live much longer for it; and I tell you that they do this twice
  every month. And let me tell you that these people use this drink from
  their infancy in order to live longer, and without fail those who live
  so long as I have told you use this drink of sulphur and quicksilver."
  (See G. T. p. 213.)

Such talk as this does not survive the solvent of translation; and we may be certain that we
have here the nearest approach to the Traveller's reminiscences as they were taken down from
his lips in the prison of Genoa.

[Sidenote: Conclusive proof that the Old French Text is the source of all the others.]

53. Another circumstance, heretofore I believe unnoticed, is in itself enough to demonstrate
the Geographic Text to be the source of all other versions of the Work. It is this.

In reviewing the various classes or types of texts of Polo's Book, which we shall hereafter
attempt to discriminate, there are certain proper names which we find in the different texts
to take very different forms, each class adhering in the main to one particular form.

Thus the names of the Mongol ladies introduced at pp. 32 and 36 of this volume, which are in
proper Oriental form Bulughán and Kukáchin, appear in the class of MSS. which Pauthier has
followed as Bolgara and Cogatra; in the MSS. of Pipino's version, and those founded on it,
including Ramusio, the names appear in the correcter forms Bolgana or Balgana and Cogacin.
Now all the forms Bolgana, Balgana, Bolgara, and Cogatra, Cocacin appear in the Geographic Text.

Kaikhátú Kaan appears in the Pauthier MSS. as Chiato, in the Pipinian as Acatu, in the Ramusian
as Chiacato. All three forms, Chiato, Achatu, and Quiacatu are found in the Geographic Text.

The city of Koh-banan appears in the Pauthier MSS. as Cabanant, in the Pipinian and Ramusian
editions as Cobinam or Cobinan. Both forms are found in the Geographic Text.

The city of the Great Kaan (Khanbalig) is called in the Pauthier MSS. Cambaluc, in the Pipinian
and Ramusian less correctly Cambalu. Both forms appear in the Geographic Text.

The aboriginal People on the Burmese Frontier who received from the Western officers of the
Mongols the Persian name (translated from that applied by the Chinese) of Zardandán, or Gold-Teeth,
appear in the Pauthier MSS. most accurately as Zardandan, but in the Pipinian as Ardandan (still
further corrupted in some copies into Arcladam). Now both forms are found in the Geographic
Text. Other examples might be given, but these I think may suffice to prove that this Text
was the common source of both classes.

In considering the question of the French original too we must remember what has been already
said regarding Rusticien de Pise and his other French writings; and we shall find hereafter
an express testimony borne in the next generation that Marco's Book was composed in vulgari
Gallico.

[Sidenote: Greatly diffused employment of French in that age.]

54. But, after all, the circumstantial evidence that has been adduced from the texts themselves
is the most conclusive. We have then every reason to believe both that the work was written
in French, and that an existing French Text is a close representation of it as originally committed
to paper. And that being so we may cite some circumstances to show that the use of French or
quasi-French for the purpose was not a fact of a very unusual or surprising nature. The French
language had at that time almost as wide, perhaps relatively a wider, diffusion than it has
now. It was still spoken at the Court of England, and still used by many English writers, of
whom the authors or translators of the Round Table Romances at Henry III.'s Court are examples.[7]
In 1249 Alexander III. King of Scotland, at his coronation spoke in Latin and French; and in
1291 the English Chancellor addressing the Scotch Parliament did so in French. At certain of
the Oxford Colleges as late as 1328 it was an order that the students should converse colloquio
latino vel saltern gallico.[8] Late in the same century Gower had not ceased to use French,
composing many poems in it, though apologizing for his want of skill therein:--

  "Et si jeo nai de Francois la faconde
       *       *        *       *        *
  Jeo suis Englois; si quier par tiele voie
  Estre excusé."[9]

Indeed down to nearly 1385, boys in the English grammar-schools were taught to construe their
Latin lessons into French.[10] St. Francis of Assisi is said by some of his biographers to
have had his original name changed to Francesco because of his early mastery of that language
as a qualification for commerce. French had been the prevalent tongue of the Crusaders, and
was that of the numerous Frank Courts which they established in the East, including Jerusalem
and the states of the Syrian coast, Cyprus, Constantinople during the reign of the Courtenays,
and the principalities of the Morea. The Catalan soldier and chronicler Ramon de Muntaner tells
us that it was commonly said of the Morean chivalry that they spoke as good French as at Paris.[11]
Quasi-French at least was still spoken half a century later by the numerous Christians settled
at Aleppo, as John Marignolli testifies;[12] and if we may trust Sir John Maundevile the Soldan
of Egypt himself and four of his chief Lords "spak Frensche righte wel!"[13] Gházán Kaan, the
accomplished Mongol Sovereign of Persia, to whom our Traveller conveyed a bride from Cambaluc,
is said by the historian Rashiduddin to have known something of the Frank tongue, probably
French.[14] Nay, if we may trust the author of the Romance of Richard Coeur-de-Lion, French
was in his day the language of still higher spheres![15]

Nor was Polo's case an exceptional one even among writers on the East who were not Frenchmen.
Maundevile himself tells us that he put his book first "out of Latyn into Frensche," and then
out of French into English.[16] The History of the East which the Armenian Prince and Monk
Hayton dictated to Nicolas Faulcon at Poictiers in 1307 was taken down in French. There are
many other instances of the employment of French by foreign, and especially by Italian authors
of that age. The Latin chronicle of the Benedictine Amato of Monte Cassino was translated into
French early in the 13th century by another monk of the same abbey, at the particular desire
of the Count of Militrée (or Malta), "Pour ce qu'il set lire et entendre fransoize et s'en
delitte."[17] Martino da Canale, a countryman and contemporary of Polo's, during the absence
of the latter in the East wrote a Chronicle of Venice in the same language, as a reason for
which he alleges its general popularity.[18] The like does the most notable example of all,
Brunetto Latini, Dante's master, who wrote in French his encyclopaedic and once highly popular
work Li Tresor.[19] Other examples might be given, but in fact such illustration is superfluous
when we consider that Rusticiano himself was a compiler of French Romances.

But why the language of the Book as we see it in the Geographic Text should be so much more
rude, inaccurate, and Italianized than that of Rusticiano's other writings, is a question to
which I can suggest no reply quite satisfactory to myself. Is it possible that we have in it
a literal representation of Polo's own language in dictating the story,--a rough draft which
it was intended afterwards to reduce to better form, and which was so reduced (after a fashion)
in French copies of another type, regarding which we shall have to speak presently?[20] And,
if this be the true answer, why should Polo have used a French jargon in which to tell his
story? Is it possible that his own mother Venetian, such as he had carried to the East with
him and brought back again, was so little intelligible to Rusticiano that French of some kind
was the handiest medium of communication between the two? I have known an Englishman and a
Hollander driven to converse in Malay; Chinese Christians of different provinces are said sometimes
to take to English as the readiest means of intercommunication; and the same is said even of
Irish-speaking Irishmen from remote parts of the Island.

It is worthy of remark how many notable narratives of the Middle Ages have been dictated instead
of being written by their authors, and that in cases where it is impossible to ascribe this
to ignorance of writing. The Armenian Hayton, though evidently a well-read man, possibly could
not write in Roman characters. But Joinville is an illustrious example. And the narratives
of four of the most famous Mediaeval Travellers[21] seem to have been drawn from them by a
kind of pressure, and committed to paper by other hands. I have elsewhere remarked this as
indicating how little diffused was literary ambition or vanity; but it would perhaps be more
correct to ascribe it to that intense dislike which is still seen on the shores of the Mediterranean
to the use of pen and ink. On certain of those shores at least there is scarcely any inconvenience
that the majority of respectable and good-natured people will not tolerate--inconvenience to
their neighbours be it understood--rather than put pen to paper for the purpose of preventing it.

[1] 232 chapters in the oldest French which we quote as the Geographic
    Text (or G. T.), 200 in Pauthier's Text, 183 in the Crusca Italian.

[2] The MS. has been printed by Baldelli as above, and again by Bartoli in
    1863.

[3] This is somewhat peculiar. I traced a few lines of it, which with Del
    Riccio's note were given in facsimile in the First Edition.

[4] The Crusca is cited from Bartoli's edition.

    French idioms are frequent, as l'uomo for the French on;
    quattro-vinti instead of ottanta; etc.

    We have at p. 35, "Questo piano è molto cavo," which is nonsense,
    but is explained by reference to the French (G. T.) "Voz di qu'il est
    celle plaingne mout chaue" (chaude).

    The bread in Kerman is bitter, says the G. T. "por ce que l'eive hi
    est amer," because the water there is bitter. The Crusca mistakes the
    last word and renders (p. 40) "e questi è per lo mare che vi
    viene."

    "Sachiés de voir qe endementiers," know for a truth that whilst----,
    by some misunderstanding of the last word becomes (p. 129) "Sappiate
    di vero sanza mentire."

    "Mès de sel font-il monoie"--"They make money of salt," becomes (p.
    168) "ma fannole da loro," sel being taken for a pronoun, whilst
in
    another place sel is transferred bodily without translation.

    "Chevoil," "hair" of the old French, appears in the Tuscan (p. 20)
    as cavagli, "horses."--"La Grant Provence Jereraus," the great
    general province, appears (p. 68) as a province whose proper name is
    Ienaraus. In describing Kúblái's expedition against Mien or Burma,
    Polo has a story of his calling on the Jugglers at his court to
    undertake the job, promising them a Captain and other help,
    "Cheveitain et aide." This has fairly puzzled the Tuscan, who
    converts these (p. 186) into two Tartar tribes, "quegli d' Aide
    e quegli di Caveità."

    So also we have lievre for hare transferred without change; lait,
    milk, appearing as laido instead of latte; très, rendered as
    "three"; bue, "mud," Italianised as buoi, "oxen," and so forth.
    Finally, in various places when Polo is explaining Oriental terms we
    find in the Tuscan MS. "cioè a dire in Francesco."

    The blunders mentioned are intelligible enough as in a version from
    the French; but in the description of the Indian pearl-fishery we
    have a startling one not so easy to account for. The French says, "the
    divers gather the sea-oysters (hostrige de Mer), and in these the
    pearls are found." This appears in the Tuscan in the extraordinary
    form that the divers catch those fishes called Herrings (Aringhe),
    and in those Herrings are found the Pearls!

[5] As examples of these Italianisms: "Et ont del olio de la lanpe dou
    sepolchro de Crist"; "L'Angel ven en vision pour mesajes de Deu à
    un Veschevo qe mout estoient home de sante vite"; "E certes il
    estoit bien beizongno"; "ne trop caut ne trop fredo"; "la crense"
    (credenza); "remort" for noise (rumore) "inverno"; "jorno";
    "dementiqué" (dimenticato); "enferme" for sickly; "leign" (legno);
    "devisce" (dovizia); "ammalaide" (ammalato), etc. etc.

    Professor Bianconi points out that there are also traces of Venetian
    dialect, as Pare for père; Mojer for wife; Zabater, cobbler;
    cazaor, huntsman, etc.

    I have not been able to learn to what extent books in this kind of
    mixed language are extant. I have observed one, a romance in verse
    called Macaire (Altfranzosische Gedichte aus Venez. Handschriften,
    von Adolf Mussafia, Wien, 1864), the language of which is not unlike
    this jargon of Rustician's, e.g.:--

      "'Dama,' fait-il, 'molto me poso merviler
      De ves enfant quant le fi batecer
      De un signo qe le vi sor la spal'a droiturer
      Qe non ait nul se no filz d'inperer.'"--(p. 41)

[6] As examples of such Orientalisms: Bonus, "ebony," and calamanz,
    "pencases," seem to represent the Persian abnús and kalamdàn; the dead
     are mourned by les mères et les Araines, the Harems; in speaking
    of the land of the Ismaelites or Assassins, called Mulhete, i.e. the
    Arabic Muláhidah, "Heretics," he explains this term as meaning "des
    Aram" (Harám, "the reprobate"). Speaking of the Viceroys of
    Chinese Provinces, we are told that they rendered their accounts
    yearly to the Safators of the Great Kaan. This is certainly an
    Oriental word. Sir H. Rawlinson has suggested that it stands for
    dafátir ("registers or public books"), pl. of daftar. This seems
    probable, and in that case the true reading may have been dafators.

[7] Luces du Gast, one of the first of these, introduces himself thus:--
    "Je Luces, Chevaliers et Sires du Chastel du Gast, voisins prochain de
    Salebieres, comme chevaliers amoureus enprens à translater du Latin en
    François une partie de cette estoire, non mie pour ce que je sache
    gramment de François, ainz apartient plus ma langue et ma parleure à
    la manière de l'Engleterre que à celle de France, comme cel qui fu en
    Engleterre nez, mais tele est ma volentez et mon proposement, que je
    en langue françoise le translaterai." (Hist. Litt. de La France, xv.
    494.)

[8] Hist. Litt. de la France, xv. 500.

[9] Ibid. 508.

[10] Tyrwhitt's Essay on Lang., etc., of Chaucer, p. xxii. (Moxon's Ed.
    1852.)

[11] Chroniques Etrangères, p. 502.

[12] "Loquuntur linguam quasi Gallicam, scilicet quasi de Cipro."
    (See Cathay p. 332.)

[13] Page 138.

[14] Hammers Ilchan, II. 148.

[15] After the capture of Acre, Richard orders 60,000 Saracen prisoners to
    be executed:--

      "They wer brought out off the toun,
      Save twenty, he heeld to raunsoun.
      They wer led into the place ful evene:
      Ther they herden Aungeles off Hevene:

      They sayde: 'SEYNYORS, TUEZ, TUEZ!
      'Spares hem nought! Behedith these!'
      Kyng Rychard herde the Aungelys voys,
      And thankyd God, and the Holy Croys."
          --Weber, II. 144.

    Note that, from the rhyme, the Angelic French was apparently
    pronounced "Too-eese! Too-eese!"

[16] [Refer to the edition of Mr. George F. Warner, 1889, for the
    Roxburghe Club, and to my own paper in the T'oung Pao, Vol. II., No.
    4, regarding the compilation published under the name of Maundeville.
    Also App. L. 13--H. C.]

[17] L'Ystoire de li Normand, etc., edited by M. Champollion-Figeac,
    Paris, 1835, p. v.

[18] "Porce que lengue Frenceise cort parmi le monde, et est la plus
    delitable à lire et à oir que nule autre, me sui-je entremis de
    translater l'ancien estoire des Veneciens de Latin en Franceis."
    (Archiv. Stor. Ital. viii.

X. VARIOUS TYPES OF TEXT OF MARCO POLO'S BOOK.

[Sidenote: Four Principal Types of Text. First, that of the Geographic, or oldest French.]

55. In treating of the various Texts of Polo's Book we must necessarily go into some irksome
detail.

Those Texts that have come down to us may be classified under Four principal Types.

I. The First Type is that of the Geographic Text of which we have already said so much. This
is found nowhere complete except in the unique MS. of the Paris Library, to which it is stated
to have come from the old Library of the French Kings at Blois. But the Italian Crusca, and
the old Latin version (No. 3195 of the Paris Library) published with the Geographic Text, are
evidently derived entirely from it, though both are considerably abridged. It is also demonstrable
that neither of these copies has been translated from the other, for each has passages which
the other omits, but that both have been taken, the one as a copy more or less loose, the other
as a translation, from an intermediate Italian copy.[1] A special difference lies in the fact
that the Latin version is divided into three Books, whilst the Crusca has no such division.
I shall show in a tabular form the filiation of the texts which these facts seem to demonstrate
(see Appendix G).

There are other Italian MSS. of this type, some of which show signs of having been derived
independently from the French;[2] but I have not been able to examine any of them with the
care needful to make specific deductions regarding them.

[Sidenote: Second; the remodelled French Text, followed by Pauthier.]

56. II. The next Type is that of the French MSS. on which M. Pauthier's Text is based, and
for which he claims the highest authority, as having had the mature revision and sanction of
the Traveller. There are, as far as I know, five MSS. which may be classed together under this
type, three in the Great Paris Library, one at Bern, and one in the Bodleian.

The high claims made by Pauthier on behalf of this class of MSS. (on the first three of which
his Text is formed) rest mainly upon the kind of certificate which two of them bear regarding
the presentation of a copy by Marco Polo to Thibault de Cepoy, which we have already quoted
(supra p. 69). This certificate is held by Pauthier to imply that the original of the copies
which bear it, and of those having a general correspondence with them, had the special seal
of Marco's revision and approval. To some considerable extent their character is corroborative
of such a claim, but they are far from having the perfection which Pauthier attributes to them,
and which leads him into many paradoxes.

It is not possible to interpret rigidly the bearing of this so-called certificate, as if no
copies had previously been taken of any form of the Book; nor can we allow it to impugn the
authenticity of the Geographic Text, which demonstratively represents an older original, and
has been (as we have seen) the parent of all other versions, including some very old ones,
Italian and Latin, which certainly owe nothing to this revision.

The first idea apparently entertained by d'Avezac and Paulin Paris was that the Geographic
Text was itself the copy given to the Sieur de Cepoy, and that the differences in the copies
of the class which we describe as Type II. merely resulted from the modifications which would
naturally arise in the process of transcription into purer French. But closer examination showed
the differences to be too great and too marked to admit of this explanation. These differences
consist not only in the conversion of the rude, obscure, and half Italian language of the original
into good French of the period. There is also very considerable curtailment, generally of tautology,
but also extending often to circumstances of substantial interest; whilst we observe the omission
of a few notably erroneous statements or expressions; and a few insertions of small importance.
None of the MSS. of this class contain more than a few of the historical chapters which we
have formed into Book IV.

The only addition of any magnitude is that chapter which in our translation forms chapter xxi.
of Book II. It will be seen that it contains no new facts, but is only a tedious recapitulation
of circumstances already stated, though scattered over several chapters. There are a few minor
additions. I have not thought it worth while to collect them systematically here, but two or
three examples are given in a note.[3]

There are also one or two corrections of erroneous statements in the G. T. which seem not to
be accidental and to indicate some attempt at revision. Thus a notable error in the account
of Aden, which seems to conceive of the Red Sea as a river, disappears in Pauthier's MSS. A
and B.[4] And we find in these MSS. one or two interesting names preserved which are not found
in the older Text.[5]

But on the other hand this class of MSS. contains many erroneous readings of names, either
adopting the worse of two forms occurring in the G. T. or originating blunders of its own.[6]

M. Pauthier lays great stress on the character of these MSS. as the sole authentic form of
the work, from their claim to have been specially revised by Marco Polo. It is evident, however,
from what has been said, that this revision can have been only a very careless and superficial
one, and must have been done in great measure by deputy, being almost entirely confined to
curtailment and to the improvement of the expression, and that it is by no means such as to
allow an editor to dispense with a careful study of the Older Text.

[Sidenote: The Bern MS. and two others form a sub-class of this Type.]

57. There is another curious circumstance about the MSS. of this type, viz., that they clearly
divide into two distinct recensions, of which both have so many peculiarities and errors in
common that they must necessarily have been both derived from one modification of the original
text, whilst at the same time there are such differences between the two as cannot be set down
to the accidents of transcription. Pauthier's MSS. A and B (Nos. 16 and 15 of the List in App.
F) form one of these subdivisions: his C (No. 17 of List), Bern (No. 56), and Oxford (No. 6),
the other. Between A and B the differences are only such as seem constantly to have arisen
from the whims of transcribers or their dialectic peculiarities. But between A and B on the
one side, and C on the other, the differences are much greater. The readings of proper names
in C are often superior, sometimes worse; but in the latter half of the work especially it
contains a number of substantial passages[7] which are to be found in the G. T., but are altogether
absent from the MSS. A and B; whilst in one case at least (the history of the Siege of Saianfu,
vol. ii. p. 159) it diverges considerably from the G. T. as well as from A and B.[8]

I gather from the facts that the MS. C represents an older form of the work than A and B. I
should judge that the latter had been derived from that older form, but intentionally modified
from it. And as it is the MS. C, with its copy at Bern, that alone presents the certificate
of derivation from the Book given to the Sieur de Cepoy, there can be no doubt that it is the
true representative of that recension.

[Sidenote: Third; Friar Pipino's Latin.]

58. III. The next Type of Text is that found in Friar Pipino's Latin version. It is the type
of which MSS. are by far the most numerous. In it condensation and curtailment are carried
a good deal further than in Type II. The work is also divided into three Books. But this division
does not seem to have originated with Pipino, as we find it in the ruder and perhaps older
Latin version of which we have already spoken under Type I. And we have demonstrated that this
ruder Latin is a translation from an Italian copy. It is probable therefore that an Italian
version similarly divided was the common source of what we call the Geographic Latin and of
Pipino's more condensed version.[9]

Pipino's version appears to have been executed in the later years of Polo's life.[10] But I
can see no ground for the idea entertained by Baldelli-Boni and Professor Bianconi that it
was executed with Polo's cognizance and retouched by him.

[Sidenote: The Latin of Grynaeus a translation at fifth hand.]

59. The absence of effective publication in the Middle Ages led to a curious complication of
translation and retranslation. Thus the Latin version published by Grynaeus in the Novus Orbis
(Basle, 1532) is different from Pipino's, and yet clearly traceable to it as a base. In fact
it is a retranslation into Latin from some version (Marsden thinks the printed Portuguese one)
of Pipino. It introduces many minor modifications, omitting specific statements of numbers
and values, generalizing the names and descriptions of specific animals, exhibiting frequent
sciolism and self-sufficiency in modifying statements which the Editor disbelieved.[11] It
is therefore utterly worthless as a Text, and it is curious that Andreas Müller, who in the
17th century devoted himself to the careful editing of Polo, should have made so unfortunate
a choice as to reproduce this fifth-hand Translation. I may add that the French editions published
in the middle of the 16th century are translations from Grynaeus. Hence they complete this
curious and vicious circle of translation: French--Italian--Pipino's Latin--Portuguese?--Grynaeus's
Latin--French![12]

[Sidenote: Fourth; Ramusio's Italian.]

60. IV. We now come to a Type of Text which deviates largely from any of those hitherto spoken
of, and the history and true character of which are involved in a cloud of difficulty. We mean
that Italian version prepared for the press by G. B. Ramusio, with most interesting, though,
as we have seen, not always accurate preliminary dissertations, and published at Venice two
years after his death, in the second volume of the Navigationi e Viaggi.[13]

The peculiarities of this version are very remarkable. Ramusio seems to imply that he used
as one basis at least the Latin of Pipino; and many circumstances, such as the division into
Books, the absence of the terminal historical chapters and of those about the Magi, and the
form of many proper names, confirm this. But also many additional circumstances and anecdotes
are introduced, many of the names assume a new shape, and the whole style is more copious and
literary in character than in any other form of the work.

Whilst some of the changes or interpolations seem to carry us further from the truth, others
contain facts of Asiatic nature or history, as well as of Polo's own experiences, which it
is extremely difficult to ascribe to any hand but the Traveller's own. This was the view taken
by Baldelli, Klaproth, and Neumann;[14] but Hugh Murray, Lazari, and Bartoli regard the changes
as interpolations by another hand; and Lazari is rash enough to ascribe the whole to a rifacimento
of Ramusio's own age, asserting it to contain interpolations not merely from Polo's own contemporary
Hayton, but also from travellers of later centuries, such as Conti, Barbosa, and Pigafetta.
The grounds for these last assertions have not been cited, nor can I trace them. But I admit
to a certain extent indications of modern tampering with the text, especially in cases where
proper names seem to have been identified and more modern forms substituted. In days, however,
where an Editor's duties were ill understood, this was natural.

[Sidenote: Injudicious tamperings in Ramusio.]

61. Thus we find substituted for the Bastra (or Bascra) of the older texts the more modern
and incorrect Balsora, dear to memories of the Arabian Nights; among the provinces of Persia
we have Spaan (Ispahan) where older texts read Istanit; for Cormos we have Ormus; for Herminia
and Laias, Armenia and Giazza; Coulam for the older Coilum; Socotera for Scotra. With these
changes may be classed the chapter-headings, which are undisguisedly modern, and probably Ramusio's
own. In some other cases this editorial spirit has been over-meddlesome and has gone astray.
Thus Malabar is substituted wrongly for Maabar in one place, and by a grosser error for Dalivar
in another. The age of young Marco, at the time of his father's first return to Venice, has
been arbitrarily altered from 15 to 19, in order to correspond with a date which is itself
erroneous. Thus also Polo is made to describe Ormus as on an Island, contrary to the old texts
and to the fact; for the city of Hormuz was not transferred to the island, afterwards so famous,
till some years after Polo's return from the East. It is probably also the editor who in the
notice of the oil-springs of Caucasus (i. p. 46) has substituted camel-loads for ship-loads,
in ignorance that the site of those alluded to was probably Baku on the Caspian.

Other erroneous statements, such as the introduction of window-glass as one of the embellishments
of the palace at Cambaluc, are probably due only to accidental misunderstanding.

[Sidenote: Genuine statements peculiar to Ramusio.]

62. Of circumstances certainly genuine, which are peculiar to this edition of Polo's work,
and which it is difficult to assign to any one but himself, we may note the specification of
the woods east of Yezd as composed of date trees (vol. i pp. 88-89); the unmistakable allusion
to the subterranean irrigation channels of Persia (p. 123); the accurate explanation of the
term Mulehet applied to the sect of Assassins (pp. 139-142); the mention of the Lake (Sirikul?)
on the plateau of Pamer, of the wolves that prey on the wild sheep, and of the piles of wild
rams' horns used as landmarks in the snow (pp. 171-177). To the description of the Tibetan
Yak, which is in all the texts, Ramusio's version alone adds a fact probably not recorded again
till the present century, viz., that it is the practice to cross the Yak with the common cow
(p. 274). Ramusio alone notices the prevalence of goître at Yarkand, confirmed by recent travellers
(i. p. 187); the vermilion seal of the Great Kaan imprinted on the paper-currency, which may
be seen in our plate of a Chinese note (p. 426); the variation in Chinese dialects (ii. p.
236); the division of the hulls of junks into water-tight compartments (ii. p. 249); the introduction
into China from Egypt of the art of refining sugar (ii. p. 226). Ramusio's account of the position
of the city of Sindafu (Ch'eng-tu fu) encompassed and intersected by many branches of a great
river (ii. p. 40), is much more just than that in the old text, which speaks of but one river
through the middle of the city. The intelligent notices of the Kaan's charities as originated
by his adoption of "idolatry" or Buddhism; of the astrological superstitions of the Chinese,
and of the manners and character of the latter nation, are found in Ramusio alone. To whom
but Marco himself, or one of his party, can we refer the brief but vivid picture of the delicious
atmosphere and scenery of the Badakhshan plateaux (ip. 158), and of the benefit that Messer
Marco's health derived from a visit to them? In this version alone again we have an account
of the oppressions exercised by Kúblái's Mahomedan Minister Ahmad, telling how the Cathayans
rose against him and murdered him, with the addition that Messer Marco was on the spot when
all this happened. Now not only is the whole story in substantial accordance with the Chinese
Annals, even to the name of the chief conspirator,[15] but those annals also tell of the courageous
frankness of "Polo, assessor of the Privy Council," in opening the Kaan's eyes to the truth.

Many more such examples might be adduced, but these will suffice. It is true that many of the
passages peculiar to the Ramusian version, and indeed the whole version, show a freer utterance
and more of a literary faculty than we should attribute to Polo, judging from the earlier texts.
It is possible, however, that this may be almost, if not entirely, due to the fact that the
version is the result of a double translation, and probably of an editorial fusion of several
documents; processes in which angularities of expression would be dissolved.[16]

[Sidenote: Hypothesis of the sources of the Ramusian Version.]

63. Though difficulties will certainly remain,[17] the most probable explanation of the origin
of this text seems to me to be some such hypothesis as the following:--I suppose that Polo
in his latter years added with his own hand supplementary notes and reminiscences, marginally
or otherwise, to a copy of his book; that these, perhaps in his lifetime, more probably after
his death, were digested and translated into Latin;[18] and that Ramusio, or some friend of
his, in retranslating and fusing them with Pipino's version for the Navigationi, made those
minor modifications in names and other matters which we have already noticed. The mere facts
of digestion from memoranda and double translation would account for a good deal of unintentional
corruption.

That more than one version was employed in the composition of Ramusio's edition we have curious
proof in at least one passage of the latter. We have pointed out at p. 410 of this volume a
curious example of misunderstanding of the old French Text, a passage in which the term Roi
des Pelaines, or "King of Furs," is applied to the Sable, and which in the Crusca has been
converted into an imaginary Tartar phrase Leroide pelame, or as Pipino makes it Rondes (another
indication that Pipino's Version and the Crusca passed through a common medium). But Ramusio
exhibits both the true reading and the perversion: "E li Tartari la chiamano Regina delle pelli"
(there is the true reading), "E gli animali si chiamano Rondes" (and there the perverted one).

We may further remark that Ramusio's version betrays indications that one of its bases either
was in the Venetian dialect, or had passed through that dialect; for a good many of the names
appear in Venetian forms, e.g., substituting the z for the sound of ch, j, or soft g, as in
Goza, Zorzania, Zagatay, Gonza (for Giogiu), Quenzanfu, Coiganzu, Tapinzu, Zipangu, Ziamba.

[Sidenote: Summary in regard to Text of Polo.]

64. To sum up. It is, I think, beyond reasonable dispute that we have, in what we call the
Geographic Text, as nearly as may be an exact transcript of the Traveller's words as originally
taken down in the prison of Genoa. We have again in the MSS. of the second type an edition
pruned and refined, probably under instructions from Marco Polo, but not with any critical
exactness. And lastly, I believe, that we have, imbedded in the Ramusian edition, the supplementary
recollections of the Traveller, noted down at a later period of his life, but perplexed by
repeated translation, compilation, and editorial mishandling.

And the most important remaining problem in regard to the text of Polo's work is the discovery
of the supplemental manuscript from which Ramusio derived those passages which are found only
in his edition. It is possible that it may still exist, but no trace of it in anything like
completeness has yet been found; though when my task was all but done I discovered a small
part of the Ramusian peculiarities in a MS. at Venice.[19]

65. Whilst upon this subject of manuscripts of our Author, I will give some particulars regarding
a very curious one, containing a version in the Irish language.

[Sidenote: Notice of a curious Irish Version of Polo.]

This remarkable document is found in the Book of Lismore, belonging to the Duke of Devonshire.
That magnificent book, finely written on vellum of the largest size, was discovered in 1814,
enclosed in a wooden box, along with a superb crozier, on opening a closed doorway in the castle
of Lismore. It contained Lives of the Saints, the (Romance) History of Charlemagne, the History
of the Lombards, histories and tales of Irish wars, etc., etc., and among the other matter
this version of Marco Polo. A full account of the Book and its mutilations will be found in
O'Curry's Lectures on the MS. Materials of Ancient Irish History, p. 196 seqq., Dublin, 1861.
The Book of Lismore was written about 1460 for Finghin MacCarthy and his wife Catharine Fitzgerald,
daughter of Gerald, Eighth Earl of Desmond.

The date of the Translation of Polo is not known, but it may be supposed to have been executed
about the above date, probably in the Monastery of Lismore (county of Waterford).

From the extracts that have been translated for me, it is obvious that the version was made,
with an astounding freedom certainly, from Friar Francesco Pipino's Latin.

Both beginning and end are missing. But what remains opens thus; compare it with Friar Pipino's
real prologue as we give it in the Appendix![20]

  "[Irish uncial text:
  riguib ocus tassech na cathar sin. bai bratair rigui anaibit san fnses
  inn cathr intansin. ba eoluc dano ss' nahilberlaib fransiscus aainm.
  bhur iarum du ambant na maste ucut ocus cuingst fair inleabor doclod
  fcula otengaid natartaired cg inteng laitanda]." &c.

  --"Kings and chieftains of that city. There was then in the city a
  princely Friar in the habit of St. Francis, named Franciscus, who was
  versed in many languages. He was brought to the place where those nobles
  were, and they requested of him to translate the book from the Tartar
  (!) into the Latin language. 'It is an abomination to me,' said he, 'to
  devote my mind or labour to works of Idolatry and Irreligion.' They
  entreated him again. 'It shall be done,' said he; 'for though it be an
  irreligious narrative that is related therein, yet the things are
  miracles of the True God; and every one who hears this much against the
  Holy Faith shall pray fervently for their conversion. And he who will
  not pray shall waste the vigour of his body to convert them.' I am not
  in dread of this Book of Marcus, for there is no lie in it. My eyes
  beheld him bringing the relics of the holy Church with him, and he left
  [his testimony], whilst tasting of death, that it was true. And Marcus
  was a devout man. What is there in it, then, but that Franciscus
  translated this Book of Marcus from the Tartar into Latin; and the years
  of the Lord at that time were fifteen years, two score, two hundred, and
  one thousand" (1255).

It then describes Armein Bec (Little Armenia), Armein Mor (Great Armenia), Musul, Taurisius,
Persida, Camandi, and so forth. The last chapter is that on Abaschia:--

  "ABASCHIA also is an extensive country, under the government of Seven
  Kings, four of whom worship the true God, and each of them wears a
  golden cross on the forehead; and they are valiant in battle, having
  been brought up fighting against the Gentiles of the other three kings,
  who are Unbelievers and Idolaters. And the kingdom of ADEN; a Soudan
  rules over them.

  "The king of Abaschia once took a notion to make a pilgrimage to the
  Sepulchre of Jesus. 'Not at all,' said his nobles and warriors to him,
  'for we should be afraid lest the infidels through whose territories you
  would have to pass, should kill you. There is a Holy Bishop with you,'
  said they; 'send him to the Sepulchre of Jesus, and much gold with
  him'"--

The rest is wanting.

[1] In the following citations, the Geographic Text (G. T.) is quoted by
    page from the printed edition (1824); the Latin published in the same
    volume (G. L.) also by page; the Crusca, as before, from Bartoli's
    edition of 1863. References in parentheses are to the present
    translation:--

    A. Passages showing the G. L. to be a translation from the Italian,
    and derived from the same Italian text as the Crusca.

                Page
    (1). G.T.    17  (I. 43).   Il hi se laborent le souran tapis
                                dou monde.
         Crusca, 17    ..       E quivi si fanno i sovrani tappeti
                                del mondo.
         G.L.   311    ..       Et ibi fiunt soriani et tapeti
                                pulcriores de mundo.
    (2). G.T.    23  (I. 69).   Et adonc le calif mande par tuit les
                                cristiez ... que en sa tere estoient.
         Crusca, 27    ..       Ora mandò lo aliffo per tutti gli
                                Cristiani ch' erano di lá.
         G.L.   316    ..       Or misit califus pro Christianis
                                qui erant ultra fluvium
                                (the last words being clearly a
                                misunderstanding of the Italian di là).
    (3). G.T.    198 (II. 313). Ont sosimain (sesamum) de coi il
                                font le olio.
         Crusca, 253   ..       Hanno sosimai onde fanno l' olio.
         G.L.    448   ..       Habent turpes manus (taking sosimani
                                for sozze mani "Dirty hands"!).
    (4). Crusca, 52  (I. 158).  Cacciare e uccellare v' è lo migliore
                                del mondo.
         G.L.    332   ..       Et est ibi optimum caciare et ucellare.
    (5). G.T.    124 (II. 36).  Adonc treuve ... une Provence qe est
                                encore de le confin dou Mangi.
         Crusca, 162-3 ..       L' uomo truova una Provincia ch' è
                                chiamata ancora delle confine de' Mangi.
         G.L.    396   ..       Invenit unam Provinciam quae vocatur
                                Anchota de confinibus Mangi.
    (6). G.T.    146 (II. 119.) Les dames portent as jambes et es
                                braces, braciaus d'or et d'arjent de
                                grandisme vailance.
         Crusca, 189   ..       Le donne portano alle braccia e alle
                                gambe bracciali d'oro e d'ariento
                                di gran valuta.
         G.L.    411   ..       Dominae eorum portant ad brachia et
                                ad gambas brazalia de auro et de
                                argento magni valoris.

    B. Passages showing additionally the errors, or other peculiarities
    of a translation from a French original, common to the Italian and the
    Latin.

    (7). G.T.    32  (I. 97.)   Est celle plaingne mout chaue (chaude).
         Crusca, 35    ..       Questo piano è molto cavo.
         G.L.    322   ..       Ista planities est multum cava.
    (8). G.T.    36  (I. 110).  Avent por ce que l'eive hi est amer.
         Crusca, 40    ..       E questo è per lo mare che vi viene.
         G.L.    324   ..       Istud est propter mare quod est ibi.
    (9). G.T.    8   (I. 50.)   Un roi qi est apelés par tout tens
                                Davit Melic, que veut à dir en fransois
                                Davit Roi.
         Crusca, 20    ..       Uno re il quale si chiama sempre
                                David Melic, ciò è a dire in francesco
                                David Re.
         G.L.    312   ..       Rex qui semper vocatur David Mellic,
                                quod sonat in gallico David Rex.

    These passages, and many more that might be quoted, seem to me to
    demonstrate (1) that the Latin and the Crusca have had a common
    original, and (2) that this original was an Italian version from the
    French.

[2] Thus the Pucci MS. at Florence, in the passage regarding the Golden
    King (vol. ii. p. 17) which begins in G. T. "Lequel fist faire jadis
    un rois qe fu apellés le Roi Dor," renders "Lo quale fa fare
    Jaddis uno re," a mistake which is not in the Crusca nor in the
    Latin, and seems to imply derivation from the French directly, or by
    some other channel (Baldelli Boni).

[3] In the Prologue (vol. i. p. 34) this class of MSS. alone names the
    King of England.

    In the account of the Battle with Nayan (i. p. 337) this class alone
    speaks of the two-stringed instruments which the Tartars played whilst
    awaiting the signal for battle. But the circumstance appears elsewhere
    in the G. T. (p. 250).

    In the chapter on Malabar (vol. ii. p. 390), it is said that the
    ships which go with cargoes towards Alexandria are not one-tenth of
    those that go to the further East. This is not in the older French.

    In the chapter on Coilun (ii. p. 375), we have a notice of the
    Columbine ginger so celebrated in the Middle Ages, which is also
    absent from the older text.

[4] See vol. ii. p. 439. It is, however, remarkable that a like mistake is
    made about the Persian Gulf (see i. 63, 64). Perhaps Polo thought in
    Persian, in which the word darya means either sea or a large
    river. The same habit and the ambiguity of the Persian sher led him
    probably to his confusion of lions and tigers (see i. 397).

[5] Such are Pasciai-Dir and Ariora Kesciemur (i. p. 98.)

[6] Thus the MSS. of this type have elected the erroneous readings
    Bolgara, Cogatra, Chiato, Cabanant, etc., instead of the correcter
    Bolgana, Cocacin, Quiacatu, Cobinan, where the G. T. presents both
    (supra, p. 86). They read Esanar for the correct Etzina; Chascun
    for Casvin; Achalet for Acbalec; Sardansu for Sindafu,
    Kayteu, Kayton, Sarcon for Zaiton or Caiton; Soucat for
    Locac; Falec for Ferlec, and so on, the worse instead of the
    better. They make the Mer Occeane into Mer Occident; the wild
    asses (asnes) of the Kerman Desert into wild geese (oes); the
    escoillez of Bengal (ii. p. 115) into escoliers; the giraffes of
    Africa into girofles, or cloves, etc., etc.

[7] There are about five-and-thirty such passages altogether.

[8] The Bern MS. I have satisfied myself is an actual copy of the Paris
    MS. C.

    The Oxford MS. closely resembles both, but I have not made the
    comparison minutely enough to say if it is an exact copy of either.

[9] The following comparison will also show that these two Latin versions
    have probably had a common source, such as is here suggested.

    At the end of the Prologue the Geographic Text reads simply:--

    "Or puis que je voz ai contez tot le fat dou prolegue ensi con voz
    avés oï, adonc (commencerai) le Livre."

    Whilst the Geographic Latin has:--

    "Postquam recitavimus et diximus facta et condictiones morum,
    itinerum et ea quae nobis contigerunt per vias, incipiemus
    dicere ea quae vidimus. Et primo dicemus de Minore Hermenia."

    And Pipino:--

    "Narratione facta nostri itineris, nunc ad ea narranda quae vidimus
    accedamus. Primo autem Armeniam Minorem describemus breviter."

[10] Friar Francesco Pipino of Bologna, a Dominican, is known also as the
    author of a lengthy chronicle from the time of the Frank Kings down to
    1314; of a Latin Translation of the French History of the Conquest of
    the Holy Land, by Bernard the Treasurer; and of a short Itinerary of a
    Pilgrimage to Palestine in 1320. Extracts from the Chronicle, and the
    version of Bernard, are printed in Muratori's Collection. As Pipino
    states himself to have executed the translation of Polo by order of
    his Superiors, it is probable that the task was set him at a general
    chapter of the order which was held at Bologna in 1315. (See
    Muratori, IX. 583; and Quétif, Script. Ord. Praed. I. 539). We do
    not know why Ramusio assigned the translation specifically to 1320,
    but he may have had grounds.

[11] See Bianconi, 1st Mem. 29 seqq.

[12] C. Dickens somewhere narrates the history of the equivalents for a
    sovereign as changed and rechanged at every frontier on a continental
    tour. The final equivalent received at Dover on his return was some 12
    or 13 shillings; a fair parallel to the comparative value of the first
    and last copies in the circle of translation.

[13] The Ramusios were a family of note in literature for several
    generations. Paolo, the father of Gian Battista, came originally from
    Rimini to Venice in 1458, and had a great repute as a jurist, besides
    being a littérateur of some eminence, as was also his younger brother
    Girolamo. G. B. Ramusio was born at Treviso in 1485, and early entered
    the public service. In 1533 he became one of the Secretaries of the
    Council of X. He was especially devoted to geographical studies, and
    had a school for such studies in his house. He retired eventually from
    public duties, and lived at Villa Ramusia, near Padua. He died in the
    latter city, 10th July, 1557, but was buried at Venice in the Church
    of S. Maria dell' Orto. There was a portrait of him by Paul Veronese
    in the Hall of the Great Council, but it perished in the fire of 1577;
    and that which is now seen in the Sala dello Scudo is, like the
    companion portrait of Marco Polo, imaginary. Paolo Ramusio, his son,
    was the author of the well-known History of the Capture of
    Constantinople. (Cicogna, II. 310 seqq.)

[14] The old French texts were unknown in Marsden's time. Hence this
    question did not present itself to him.

[15] Wangcheu in the Chinese Annals; Vanchu in Ramusio. I assume that
    Polo's Vanchu was pronounced as in English; for in Venetian the ch
    very often has that sound. But I confess that I can adduce no other
    instance in Ramusio where I suppose it to have this sound, except in
    the initial sound of Chinchitalas and twice in Choiach (see II.
    364).

    Professor Bianconi, who has treated the questions connected with the
    Texts of Polo with honest enthusiasm and laborious detail, will admit
    nothing genuine in the Ramusian interpolations beyond the preservation
    of some oral traditions of Polo's supplementary recollections. But
    such a theory is out of the question in face of a chapter like that on
    Ahmad.

[16] Old Purchas appears to have greatly relished Ramusio's comparative
    lucidity: "I found (says he) this Booke translated by Master Hakluyt
    out of the Latine (i.e. among Hakluyt's MS. collections). But where
    the blind leade the blind both fall: as here the corrupt Latine
    could not but yeeld a corruption of truth in English. Ramusio,
    Secretarie to the Decemviri in Venice, found a better Copie and
    published the same, whence you have the worke in manner new: so
    renewed, that I have found the Proverbe true, that it is better to
    pull downe an old house and to build it anew, then to repaire it; as I
    also should have done, had I knowne that which in the event I found.
    The Latine is Latten, compared to Ramusio's Gold. And hee which
    hath the Latine hath but Marco Polo's carkasse or not so much, but
    a few bones, yea, sometimes stones rather then bones; things divers,
    averse, adverse, perverted in manner, disjoynted in manner, beyond
    beliefe. I have seene some Authors maymed, but never any so mangled
    and so mingled, so present and so absent, as this vulgar Latine of
    Marco Polo; not so like himselfe, as the Three Polo's were at
    their returne to Venice, where none knew them.... Much are wee
    beholden to Ramusio, for restoring this Pole and Load-starre of
    Asia, out of that mirie poole or puddle in which he lay drouned."
    (III. p. 65.)

[17] Of these difficulties the following are some of the more prominent:--

    1. The mention of the death of Kúblái (see note 7, p. 38 of this
    volume), whilst throughout the book Polo speaks of Kúblái as if still
    reigning.

    2. Mr. Hugh Murray objects that whilst in the old texts Polo appears to
    look on Kúblái with reverence as a faultless Prince, in the Ramusian
    we find passages of an opposite tendency, as in the chapter about
    Ahmad.

    3. The same editor points to the manner in which one of the Ramusian
    additions represents the traveller to have visited the Palace of the
    Chinese Kings at Kinsay, which he conceives to be inconsistent with
    Marco's position as an official of the Mongol Government. (See vol.
    ii. p. 208.)

    If we could conceive the Ramusian additions to have been originally
    notes written by old Maffeo Polo on his nephew's book, this hypothesis
    would remove almost all difficulty.

    One passage in Ramusio seems to bear a reference to the date at which
    these interpolated notes were amalgamated with the original. In the
    chapter on Samarkand (i. p. 191) the conversion of the Prince Chagatai
    is said in the old texts to have occurred "not a great while ago"
    (il ne a encore grament de tens). But in Ramusio the supposed
    event is fixed at "one hundred and twenty-five years since." This
    number could not have been uttered with reference to 1298, the year of
    the dictation at Genoa, nor to any year of Polo's own life. Hence it
    is probable that the original note contained a date or definite term
    which was altered by the compiler to suit the date of his own
    compilation, some time in the 14th century.]

[18] In the first edition of Ramusio the preface contained the following
    passage, which is omitted from the succeeding editions; but as even
    the first edition was issued after Ramusio's own death, I do not see
    that any stress can be laid on this:

    "A copy of the Book of Marco Polo, as it was originally written in
    Latin, marvellously old, and perhaps directly copied from the original
    as it came from M. Marco's own hand, has been often consulted by me
    and compared with that which we now publish, having been lent me by a
    nobleman of this city, belonging to the Ca' Ghisi."

[19] For a moment I thought I had been lucky enough to light on a part of
    the missing original of Ramusio in the Barberini Library at Rome.
    A fragment of a Venetian version in that library (No. 56 in our list
    of MSS.) bore on the fly-leaf the title "Alcuni primi capi del Libro
    di S. Marco Polo, copiati dall esemplare manoscritto di PAOLO
    RANNUSIO." But it proved to be of no importance. One brief passage of
    those which have been thought peculiar to Ramusio; viz., the reference
    to the Martyrdom of St. Blaize at Sebaste (see p. 43 of this volume),
    is found also in the Geographic Latin.

    It was pointed out by Lazari, that another passage (vol. i. p. 60) of
    those otherwise peculiar to Ramusio, is found in a somewhat abridged
    Latin version in a MS. which belonged to the late eminent antiquary
    Emanuel Cicogna. (See List in Appendix F, No. 35.) This fact induced
    me when at Venice in 1870 to examine the MS. throughout, and, though I
    could give little time to it, the result was very curious.

    I find that this MS. contains, not one only, but at least seven of
    the passages otherwise peculiar to Ramusio, and must have been one of
    the elements that went to the formation of his text. Yet of his more
    important interpolations, such as the chapter on Ahmad's oppressions
    and the additional matter on the City of Kinsay, there is no
    indication. The seven passages alluded to are as follows; the words
    corresponding to Ramusian peculiarities are in italics, the references
    are to my own volumes.

    1. In the chapter on Georgia:

    "Mare quod dicitur Gheluchelan vel ABACU"....

    "Est ejus stricta via et dubia. Ab una parte est mare quod dixi de
    ABACU et ab aliâ nemora invia," etc. (See I. p. 59, note 8.)

    2. "Et ibi optimi austures dicti AVIGI" (I. 50).

    3. After the chapter on Mosul is another short chapter, already
    alluded to:

    "Prope hanc civitatem (est) alia provincia dicta MUS e MEREDIEN in
    quâ nascitur magna quantitas bombacis, et hic fiunt bocharini et alia
    multa, et sunt mercatores homines et artiste." (See i. p. 60.)

    4. In the chapter on Tarcan (for Carcan, i.e. Yarkand):

    "Et maior pars horum habent unum ex pedibus grossum et habent gosum
    in gulâ; et est hic fertilis contracta." (See i. p. 187.)

    5. In the Desert of Lop:

    "Homines trasseuntes appendunt bestiis suis capanullas [i.e.
    campanellas] ut ipsas senciant et ne deviare possint" (i. p. 197.)

    6. "Ciagannor, quod sonat in Latino STAGNUM ALBUM." (i. p. 296.)

    7. "Et in medio hujus viridarii est palacium sive logia, tota super
    columpnas. Et in summitate cujuslibet columnae est draco magnus
    circundans totam columpnam, et hic substinet eorum cohoperturam cum
    ore et pedibus; et est cohopertura tota de cannis hoc modo," etc.
    (See i. p. 299.)

[20] My valued friend Sir Arthur Phayre made known to me the passage in
    O'Curry's Lectures. I then procured the extracts and further
    particulars from Mr. J. Long, Irish Transcriber and Translator in
    Dublin, who took them from the Transcript of the Book of Lismore, in
    the possession of the Royal Irish Academy. [Cf. Anecdota Oxoniensia.
    Lives of the Saints from the Book of Lismore, edited with a
    translation ... by Whitley Stokes, Oxford, 1890.--Marco Polo forms
    fo. 79 a, 1--fo. 89 b, 2, of the MS., and is described pp. xxii.-xxiv.
    of Mr. Whitley Stokes' Book, who has since published the Text in the
    Zeit. f. Celtische Philol. (See Bibliography, vol. ii. p. 573.)--
    H. C.]

XI. SOME ESTIMATE OF THE CHARACTER OF POLO AND HIS BOOK.

[Sidenote: Grounds of Polo's pre-eminence among mediaeval travellers.]

66. That Marco Polo has been so universally recognised as the King of Mediaeval Travellers
is due rather to the width of his experience, the vast compass of his journeys, and the romantic
nature of his personal history, than to transcendent superiority of character or capacity.

Enthusiastic Biographers, beginning with Ramusio, have placed Polo on the same platform with
Columbus. But where has our Venetian Traveller left behind him any trace of the genius and
lofty enthusiasm, the ardent and justified previsions which mark the great Admiral as one of
the lights of the human race?[2] It is a juster praise that the spur which his Book eventually
gave to geographical studies, and the beacons which it hung out at the Eastern extremities
of the Earth helped to guide the aims, though scarcely to kindle the fire, of the greater son
of the rival Republic. His work was at least a link in the Providential chain which at last
dragged the New World to light.[3]

[Sidenote: His true claims to glory.]

67. Surely Marco's real, indisputable, and, in their kind, unique claims to glory may suffice!

That all this rich catalogue of discoveries should belong to the revelations of one Man and
one Book is surely ample ground enough to account for and to justify the Author's high place
in the roll of Fame, and there can be no need to exaggerate his greatness, or to invest him
with imaginary attributes.[4]

[Sidenote: His personal attributes seen but dimly.]

68. What manner of man was Ser Marco? It is a question hard to answer. Some critics cry out
against personal detail in books of Travel; but as regards him who would not welcome a little
more egotism! In his Book impersonality is carried to excess; and we are often driven to discern
by indirect and doubtful indications alone, whether he is speaking of a place from personal
knowledge or only from hearsay. In truth, though there are delightful exceptions, and nearly
every part of the book suggests interesting questions, a desperate meagreness and baldness
does extend over considerable tracts of the story. In fact his book reminds us sometimes of
his own description of Khorasan:--"On chevauche par beaus plains et belles costieres, là où
il a moult beaus herbages et bonne pasture et fruis assez.... Et aucune fois y treuve l'en
un desert de soixante milles ou de mains, esquels desers ne treuve l'en point d'eaue; mais
la convient porter o lui!"

Still, some shadowy image of the man may be seen in the Book; a practical man, brave, shrewd,
prudent, keen in affairs, and never losing his interest in mercantile details, very fond of
the chase, sparing of speech; with a deep wondering respect for Saints, even though they be
Pagan Saints, and their asceticism, but a contempt for Patarins and such like, whose consciences
would not run in customary grooves, and on his own part a keen appreciation of the World's
pomps and vanities. See, on the one hand, his undisguised admiration of the hard life and long
fastings of Sakya Muni; and on the other how enthusiastic he gets in speaking of the great
Kaan's command of the good things of the world, but above all of his matchless opportunities
of sport![5]

Of humour there are hardly any signs in his Book. His almost solitary joke (I know but one
more, and it pertains to the [Greek: ouk anaékonta]) occurs in speaking of the Kaan's paper-money
when he observes that Kúblái might be said to have the true Philosopher's Stone, for he made
his money at pleasure out of the bark of Trees.[6] Even the oddest eccentricities of outlandish
tribes scarcely seem to disturb his gravity; as when he relates in his brief way of the people
called Gold-Teeth on the frontier of Burma, that ludicrous custom which Mr. Tylor has so well
illustrated under the name of the Couvade. Of scientific notions, such as we find in the unveracious
Maundevile, we have no trace in truthful Marco. The former, "lying with a circumstance," tells
us boldly that he was in 33° of South Latitude; the latter is full of wonder that some of the
Indian Islands where he had been lay so far to the south that you lost sight of the Pole-star.
When it rises again on his horizon he estimates the Latitude by the Pole-star's being so many
cubits high. So the gallant Baber speaks of the sun having mounted spear-high when the onset
of battle began at Paniput. Such expressions convey no notion at all to such as have had their
ideas sophisticated by angular perceptions of altitude, but similar expressions are common
among Orientals,[8] and indeed I have heard them from educated Englishmen. In another place
Marco states regarding certain islands in the Northern Ocean that they lie so very far to the
north that in going thither one actually leaves the Pole-star a trifle behind towards the south;
a statement to which we know only one parallel, to wit, in the voyage of that adventurous Dutch
skipper who told Master Moxon, King Charles II.'s Hydrographer, that he had sailed two degrees
beyond the Pole!

[Sidenote: Map constructed on Polo's data.]

70. The Book, however, is full of bearings and distances, and I have thought it worth while
to construct a map from its indications, in order to get some approximation to Polo's own idea
of the face of that world which he had traversed so extensively. There are three allusions
to maps in the course of his work (II. 245, 312, 424).

In his own bearings, at least on land journeys, he usually carries us along a great general
traverse line, without much caring about small changes of direction. Thus on the great outward
journey from the frontier of Persia to that of China the line runs almost continuously "entre
Levant et Grec" or E.N.E. In his journey from Cambaluc or Peking to Mien or Burma, it is always
Ponent or W.; and in that from Peking to Zayton in Fo-kien, the port of embarkation for India,
it is Sceloc or S.E. The line of bearings in which he deviates most widely from truth is that
of the cities on the Arabian Coast from Aden to Hormuz, which he makes to run steadily vers
Maistre or N.W., a conception which it has not been very easy to realise on the map.[9]

[Sidenote: Singular omissions of Polo in regard to China; Historical inaccuracies.]

71. In the early part of the Book we are told that Marco acquired several of the languages
current in the Mongol Empire, and no less than four written characters. We have discussed what
these are likely to have been (i. pp. 28-29), and have given a decided opinion that Chinese
was not one of them. Besides intrinsic improbability, and positive indications of Marco's ignorance
of Chinese, in no respect is his book so defective as in regard to Chinese manners and peculiarities.
The Great Wall is never mentioned, though we have shown reason for believing that it was in
his mind when one passage of his book was dictated.[10] The use of Tea, though he travelled
through the Tea districts of Fo-kien, is never mentioned;[11] the compressed feet of the women
and the employment of the fishing cormorant (both mentioned by Friar Odoric, the contemporary
of his later years), artificial egg-hatching, printing of books (though the notice of this
art seems positively challenged in his account of paper-money), besides a score of remarkable
arts and customs which one would have expected to recur to his memory, are never alluded to.
Neither does he speak of the great characteristic of the Chinese writing. It is difficult to
account for these omissions, especially considering the comparative fulness with which he treats
the manners of the Tartars and of the Southern Hindoos; but the impression remains that his
associations in China were chiefly with foreigners. Wherever the place he speaks of had a Tartar
or Persian name he uses that rather than the Chinese one. Thus Cathay, Cambaluc, Pulisanghin,
Tangut, Chagannor, Saianfu, Kenjanfu, Tenduc, Acbalec, Carajan, Zardandan, Zayton, Kemenfu,
Brius, Caramoran, Chorcha, Juju, are all Mongol, Turki, or Persian forms, though all have Chinese
equivalents.[12]

In reference to the then recent history of Asia, Marco is often inaccurate, e.g. in his account
of the death of Chinghiz, in the list of his successors, and in his statement of the relation
ship between notable members of that House.[13] But the most perplexing knot in the whole book
lies in the interesting account which he gives of the Siege of Sayanfu or Siang-yang, during
the subjugation of Southern China by Kúblái. I have entered on this matter in the notes (vol.
ii. p. 167), and will only say here that M. Pauthier's solution of the difficulty is no solution,
being absolutely inconsistent with the story as told by Marco himself, and that I see none;
though I have so much faith in Marco's veracity that I am loath to believe that the facts admit
of no reconciliation.

Our faint attempt to appreciate some of Marco's qualities, as gathered from his work, will
seem far below the very high estimates that have been pronounced, not only by some who have
delighted rather to enlarge upon his frame than to make themselves acquainted with his work,[14]
but also by persons whose studies and opinions have been worthy of all respect. Our estimate,
however, does not abate a jot of our intense interest in his Book and affection for his memory.
And we have a strong feeling that, owing partly to his reticence, and partly to the great disadvantages
under which the Book was committed to writing, we have in it a singularly imperfect image of
the Man.

[Sidenote: Was Polo's Book materially affected by the Scribe Rusticiano?]

72. A question naturally suggests itself, how far Polo's narrative, at least in its expression,
was modified by passing under the pen of a professed littérateur of somewhat humble claims,
such as Rusticiano was. The case is not a singular one, and in our own day the ill-judged use
of such assistance has been fatal to the reputation of an adventurous Traveller.

We have, however, already expressed our own view that in the Geographic Text we have the nearest
possible approach to a photographic impression of Marco's oral narrative. If there be an exception
to this we should seek it in the descriptions of battles, in which we find the narrator to
fall constantly into a certain vein of bombastic commonplaces, which look like the stock phrases
of a professed romancer, and which indeed have a strong resemblance to the actual phraseology
of certain metrical romances.[15] Whether this feature be due to Rusticiano I cannot say, but
I have not been able to trace anything of the same character in a cursory inspection of some
of his romance-compilations. Still one finds it impossible to conceive of our sober and reticent
Messer Marco pacing the floor of his Genoese dungeon, and seven times over rolling out this
magniloquent bombast, with sufficient deliberation to be overtaken by the pen of the faithful
amanuensis!

[Sidenote: Marco's reading embraced the Alexandrian Romances. Examples.]

73. On the other hand, though Marco, who had left home at fifteen years of age, naturally shows
very few signs of reading, there are indications that he had read romances, especially those
dealing with the fabulous adventures of Alexander.

To these he refers explicitly or tacitly in his notices of the Irongate and of Gog and Magog,
in his allusions to the marriage of Alexander with Darius's daughter, and to the battle between
those two heroes, and in his repeated mention of the Arbre Sol or Arbre Sec on the Khorasan
frontier.

The key to these allusions is to be found in that Legendary History of Alexander, entirely
distinct from the true history of the Macedonian Conqueror, which in great measure took the
place of the latter in the imagination of East and West for more than a thousand years. This
fabulous history is believed to be of Graeco-Egyptian origin, and in its earliest extant compiled
form, in the Greek of the Pseudo-Callisthenes, can be traced back to at least about A.D. 200.
From the Greek its marvels spread eastward at an early date; some part at least of their matter
was known to Moses of Chorene, in the 5th century;[16] they were translated into Armenian,
Arabic, Hebrew, and Syriac; and were reproduced in the verses of Firdusi and various other
Persian Poets; spreading eventually even to the Indian Archipelago, and finding utterance in
Malay and Siamese. At an early date they had been rendered into Latin by Julius Valerius; but
this work had probably been lost sight of, and it was in the 10th century that they were re-imported
from Byzantium to Italy by the Archpriest Leo, who had gone as Envoy to the Eastern Capital
from John Duke of Campania.[17] Romantic histories on this foundation, in verse and prose,
became diffused in all the languages of Western Europe, from Spain to Scandinavia, rivalling
in popularity the romantic cycles of the Round Table or of Charlemagne. Nor did this popularity
cease till the 16th century was well advanced.

The heads of most of the Mediaeval Travellers were crammed with these fables as genuine history.[18]
And by the help of that community of legend on this subject which they found wherever Mahomedan
literature had spread, Alexander Magnus was to be traced everywhere in Asia. Friar Odoric found
Tana, near Bombay, to be the veritable City of King Porus; John Marignolli's vainglory led
him to imitate King Alexander in setting up a marble column "in the corner of the world over
against Paradise," i.e. somewhere on the coast of Travancore; whilst Sir John Maundevile, with
a cheaper ambition, borrowed wonders from the Travels of Alexander to adorn his own. Nay, even
in after days, when the Portuguese stumbled with amazement on those vast ruins in Camboja,
which have so lately become familiar to us through the works of Mouhot, Thomson, and Garnier,
they ascribed them to Alexander.[19]

Prominent in all these stories is the tale of Alexander's shutting up a score of impure nations,
at the head of which were Gog and Magog, within a barrier of impassable mountains, there to
await the latter days; a legend with which the disturbed mind of Europe not unnaturally connected
that cataclysm of unheard-of Pagans that seemed about to deluge Christendom in the first half
of the 13th century. In these stories also the beautiful Roxana, who becomes the bride of Alexander,
is Darius's daughter, bequeathed to his arms by the dying monarch. Conspicuous among them again
is the Legend of the Oracular Trees of the Sun and Moon, which with audible voice foretell
the place and manner of Alexander's death. With this Alexandrian legend some of the later forms
of the story had mixed up one of Christian origin about the Dry Tree, L'Arbre Sec. And they
had also adopted the Oriental story of the Land of Darkness and the mode of escape from it,
which Polo relates at p. 484 of vol. ii.

[Sidenote: Injustice long done to Polo. Singular modern instance.]

74. We have seen in the most probable interpretation of the nickname Milioni that Polo's popular
reputation in his lifetime was of a questionable kind; and a contemporary chronicler, already
quoted, has told us how on his death-bed the Traveller was begged by anxious friends to retract
his extraordinary stories.[20] A little later one who copied the Book "per passare tempo e
malinconia" says frankly that he puts no faith in it.[21] Sir Thomas Brown is content "to carry
a wary eye" in reading "Paulus Venetus"; but others of our countrymen in the last century express
strong doubts whether he ever was in Tartary or China.[22] Marden's edition might well have
extinguished the last sparks of scepticism.[23] Hammer meant praise in calling Polo "der Vater
orientalischer Hodogetik," in spite of the uncouthness of the eulogy. But another grave German
writer, ten years after Marsden's publication, put forth in a serious book that the whole story
was a clumsy imposture![24]

[1] M. d'Avezac has refuted the common supposition that this admirable
    traveller was a native of Brabant.

    The form Rubruquis of the name of the traveller William de Rubruk
    has been habitually used in this book, perhaps without sufficient
    consideration, but it is the most familiar in England, from its use by
    Hakluyt and Purchas. The former, who first published the narrative,
    professedly printed from an imperfect MS. belonging to the Lord
    Lumley, which does not seem to be now known. But all the MSS. collated
    by Messrs. Francisque-Michel and Wright, in preparing their edition of
    the Traveller, call him simply Willelmus de Rubruc or Rubruk.

    Some old authors, apparently without the slightest ground, having
    called him Risbroucke and the like, it came to be assumed that he
    was a native of Ruysbroeck, a place in South Brabant.

    But there is a place still called Rubrouck in French Flanders. This
    is a commune containing about 1500 inhabitants, belonging to the
    Canton of Cassel and arrondissement of Hazebrouck, in the Department
    du Nord. And we may take for granted, till facts are alleged against
    it, that this was the place from which the envoy of St. Lewis drew
    his origin. Many documents of the Middle Ages, referring expressly to
    this place Rubrouck, exist in the Library of St. Omer, and a detailed
    notice of them has been published by M. Edm. Coussemaker, of Lille.
    Several of these documents refer to persons bearing the same name as
    the Traveller, e.g., in 1190, Thierry de Rubrouc; in 1202 and 1221,
    Gauthier du Rubrouc; in 1250, Jean du Rubrouc; and in 1258, Woutermann
    de Rubrouc. It is reasonable to suppose that Friar William was of the
    same stock. See Bulletin de la Soc. de Géographie, 2nd vol. for
    1868, pp. 569-570, in which there are some remarks on the subject by
    M. d'Avezac; and I am indebted to the kind courtesy of that eminent
    geographer himself for the indication of this reference and the main
    facts, as I had lost a note of my own on the subject.

    It seems a somewhat complex question whether a native even of French
    Flanders at that time should be necessarily claimable as a
    Frenchman;[A] but no doubt on this point is alluded to by M. d'Avezac,
    so he probably had good ground for that assumption. [See also Yule's
    article in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, and Rockhill's Rubruck,
    Int., p. xxxv.--H. C.]

    That cross-grained Orientalist, I. J. Schmidt, on several occasions
    speaks contemptuously of this veracious and delightful traveller,
    whose evidence goes in the teeth of some of his crotchets. But I am
    glad to find that Professor Peschel takes a view similar to that
    expressed in the text: "The narrative of Ruysbroek [Rubruquis], almost
    immaculate in its freedom from fabulous insertions, may be indicated
    on account of its truth to nature as the greatest geographical
    masterpiece of the Middle Ages." (Gesch. der Erdkunde, 1865, p.
    151.)

      [A] The County of Flanders was at this time in large part a fief of
          the French Crown. (See Natalis de Wailly, notes to Joinville,
          p. 576.) But that would not much affect the question either one
          way or the other.

[2] High as Marco's name deserves to be set, his place is not beside the
    writer of such burning words as these addressed to Ferdinand and
    Isabella: "From the most tender age I went to sea, and to this day I
    have continued to do so. Whosoever devotes himself to this craft must
    desire to know the secrets of Nature here below. For 40 years now have
    I thus been engaged, and wherever man has sailed hitherto on the face
    of the sea, thither have I sailed also. I have been in constant
    relation with men of learning, whether ecclesiastic or secular, Latins
    and Greeks, Jews and Moors, and men of many a sect besides. To
    accomplish this my longing (to know the Secrets of the World) I found
    the Lord favourable to my purposes; it is He who hath given me the
    needful disposition and understanding. He bestowed upon me abundantly
    the knowledge of seamanship: and of Astronomy He gave me enough to
    work withal, and so with Geometry and Arithmetic.... In the days of my
    youth I studied works of all kinds, history, chronicles, philosophy,
    and other arts, and to apprehend these the Lord opened my
    understanding. Under His manifest guidance I navigated hence to the
    Indies; for it was the Lord who gave me the will to accomplish that
    task, and it was in the ardour of that will that I came before your
    Highnesses. All those who heard of my project scouted and derided it;
    all the acquirements I have mentioned stood me in no stead; and if in
    your Highnesses, and in you alone, Faith and Constancy endured, to
    Whom are due the Lights that have enlightened you as well as me, but
    to the Holy Spirit?" (Quoted in Humboldt's Examen Critique, I. 17,
    18.)

[3] Libri, however, speaks too strongly when he says: "The finest of all
    the results due to the influence of Marco Polo is that of having
    stirred Columbus to the discovery of the New World. Columbus, jealous
    of Polo's laurels, spent his life in preparing means to get to that
    Zipangu of which the Venetian traveller had told such great things;
    his desire was to reach China by sailing westward, and in his way he
    fell in with America." (H. des Sciences Mathém. etc. II. 150.)

    The fact seems to be that Columbus knew of Polo's revelations only at
    second hand, from the letters of the Florentine Paolo Toscanelli and
    the like; and I cannot find that he ever refers to Polo by name.
    [How deep was the interest taken by Colombus in Marco Polo's travels
    is shown by the numerous marginal notes of the Admiral in the printed
    copy of the latin version of Pipino kept at the Bib. Colombina at
    Seville. See Appendix H. p. 558.--H. C.] Though to the day of his
    death he was full of imaginations about Zipangu and the land of the
    Great Kaan as being in immediate proximity to his discoveries, these
    were but accidents of his great theory. It was the intense conviction
    he had acquired of the absolute smallness of the Earth, of the vast
    extension of Asia eastward, and of the consequent narrowness of the
    Western Ocean, on which his life's project was based. This conviction
    he seems to have derived chiefly from the works of Cardinal Pierre
    d'Ailly. But the latter borrowed his collected arguments from Roger
    Bacon, who has stated them, erroneous as they are, very forcibly in
    his Opus Majus (p. 137), as Humboldt has noticed in his Examen
    (vol. i. p. 64). The Spanish historian Mariana makes a strange jumble
    of the alleged guides of Columbus, saying that some ascribed his
    convictions to "the information given by one Marco Polo, a Florentine
    Physician!" ("como otros dizen, por aviso que le dio un cierto Marco
    Polo, Medico Florentin;" Hist. de España, lib. xxvi. cap 3).
    Toscanelli is called by Columbus Maestro Paulo, which seems to have
    led to this mistake; see Sign. G. Uzielli, in Boll. della Soc.
    Geog. Ital. IX. p. 119, [Also by the same: Paolo dal Pozzo
    Toscanelli iniziatore della scoperta d' America, Florence, 1892;
    Toscanelli, No. 1; Toscanelli, Vol. V. of the Raccolta
    Colombiana, 1894.--H. C.]

[4] "C'est diminuer l'expression d'un éloge que de l'exagérer."
    (Humboldt, Examen, III. 13.)

[5] See vol. ii. p. 318, and vol. i. p. 404.

[6] Vol. i. p. 423.

[7] Vol. ii. p. 85, and Apollonius Rhodius, Argonaut. II. 1012.

[8] Chinese Observers record the length of Comets' tails by cubits!

[9] The map, perhaps, gives too favourable an idea of Marco's geographical
    conceptions. For in such a construction much has to be supplied for
    which there are no data, and that is apt to take mould from modern
    knowledge. Just as in the book illustrations of ninety years ago we
    find that Princesses of Abyssinia, damsels of Otaheite, and Beauties
    of Mary Stuart's Court have all somehow a savour of the high waists,
    low foreheads, and tight garments of 1810.

    We are told that Prince Pedro of Portugal in 1426 received from the
    Signory of Venice a map which was supposed to be either an original or
    a copy of one by Marco Polo's own hand. (Majors P. Henry, p. 62.)
    There is no evidence to justify any absolute expression of disbelief;
    and if any map-maker with the spirit of the author of the Carta
    Catalana then dwelt in Venice, Polo certainly could not have gone to
    his grave uncatechised. But I should suspect the map to have been a
    copy of the old one that existed in the Sala dello Scudo of the Ducal
    Palace.

    The maps now to be seen painted on the walls of that Hall, and on
    which Polo's route is marked, are not of any great interest. But in
    the middle of the 15th century there was an old Descriptio Orbis sive
    Mappamundus in the Hall, and when the apartment was renewed in 1459 a
    decree of the Senate ordered that such a map should be repainted on
    the new walls. This also perished by a fire in 1483. On the motion of
    Ramusio, in the next century, four new maps were painted. These had
    become dingy and ragged, when, in 1762, the Doge Marco Foscarini
    caused them to be renewed by the painter Francesco Grisellini. He
    professed to have adhered closely to the old maps, but he certainly
    did not, as Morelli testifies. Eastern Asia looks as if based on a
    work of Ramusio's age, but Western Asia is of undoubtedly modern
    character. (See Operetti di Iacopo Morelli, Ven. 1820, I. 299.)

[10] "Humboldt confirms the opinion I have more than once expressed that
    too much must not be inferred from the silence of authors. He adduces
    three important and perfectly undeniable matters of fact, as to which
    no evidence is to be found where it would be most anticipated: In the
    archives of Barcelona no trace of the triumphal entry of Columbus into
    that city; in Marco Polo no allusion to the Chinese Wall; in the
    archives of Portugal nothing about the voyages of Amerigo Vespucci in
    the service of that crown." (Varnhagen v. Ense, quoted by Hayward,
    Essays, 2nd Ser. I. 36.) See regarding the Chinese Wall the remarks
    referred to above, at p. 292 of this volume.

[11] [It is a strange fact that Polo never mentions the use of Tea in
    China, although he travelled through the Tea districts in Fu Kien, and
    tea was then as generally drunk by the Chinese as it is now. It is
    mentioned more than four centuries earlier by the Mohammedan merchant
    Soleyman, who visited China about the middle of the 9th century. It is considered very wholesome. This plant (the leaves) is
    sold in all the cities of the empire." (Bretschneider, Hist. Bot.
    Disc.I. p. 5.)--H. C.]

[12] It is probable that Persian, which had long been the language of
    Turanian courts, was also the common tongue of foreigners at that of
    the Mongols. Pulisanghin and Zardandán, in the preceding list, are
    pure Persian. So are several of the Oriental phrases noted at p. 84.
    See also notes on Ondanique and Vernique at pp. 93 and 384 of this
    volume, on Tacuin at p. 448, and a note at p. 93 supra. The
    narratives of Odoric, and others of the early travellers to Cathay,
    afford corroborative examples. Lord Stanley of Alderley, in one of his
    contributions to the Hakluyt Series, has given evidence from
    experience that Chinese Mahomedans still preserve the knowledge of
    numerous Persian words.

[13] Compare these errors with like errors of Herodotus, e.g., regarding
    the conspiracy of the False Smerdis. (See Rawlinson's Introduction, p.
    55.) There is a curious parallel between the two also in the supposed
    occasional use of Oriental state records, as in Herodotus's accounts
    of the revenues of the satrapies, and of the army of Xerxes, and in
    Marco Polo's account of Kinsay, and of the Kaan's revenues. (Vol. ii
    pp. 185, 216.)

[14] An example is seen in the voluminous Annali Musulmani of G. B.
    Rampoldi, Milan, 1825. This writer speaks of the Travels of Marco
    Polo with his brother and uncle; declares that he visited Tipango
    (sic), Java, Ceylon, and the Maldives, collected all the
    geographical notions of his age, traversed the two peninsulas of the
    Indies, examined the islands of Socotra, Madagascar, Sofala, and
    traversed with philosophic eye the regions of Zanguebar, Abyssinia,
    Nubia, and Egypt! and so forth (ix. 174). And whilst Malte-Brun
    bestows on Marco the sounding and ridiculous title of "the Humboldt
    of the 13th century," he shows little real acquaintance with his
    Book. (See his Précis, ed. of 1836, I. 551 seqq.)

[15] See for example vol. i. p. 338, and note 4 at p. 341; also vol. ii.
    p. 103. The descriptions in the style referred to recur in all seven
    times; but most of them (which are in Book IV.) have been omitted in
    this translation.

[16] [On the subject of Moses of Chorene and his works, I must refer to
    the clever researches of the late Auguste Carrière, Professor of
    Armenian at the École des Langues Orientales.--H. C.]

[17] Zacher, Forschungen zur Critik, &c., der Alexandersage, Halle,
    1867, p. 108.

[18] Even so sagacious a man as Roger Bacon quotes the fabulous letter of
    Alexander to Aristotle as authentic. (Opus Majus, p. 137.)

[19] J. As. sér. VI. tom. xviii. p. 352.

[20] See passage from Jacopo d'Acqui, supra, p. 54.

[21] It is the transcriber of one of the Florence MSS. who appends this
    terminal note, worthy of Mrs. Nickleby:--"Here ends the Book of Messer
    M. P. of Venice, written with mine own hand by me Amalio Bonaguisi
    when Podestà of Cierreto Guidi, to get rid of time and ennui. The
    contents seem to me incredible things, not lies so much as miracles;
    and it may be all very true what he says, but I don't believe it;
    though to be sure throughout the world very different things are found
    in different countries. But these things, it has seemed to me in
    copying, are entertaining enough, but not things to believe or put any
    faith in; that at least is my opinion. And I finished copying this at
    Cierreto aforesaid, 12th November, A.D. 1392."

[22] Vulgar Errors, Bk. I. ch. viii.; Astley's Voyages, IV. 583.

[23] A few years before Marsden's publication, the Historical branch of
    the R. S. of Science at Göttingen appears to have put forth as the
    subject of a prize Essay the Geography of the Travels of Carpini,
    Rubruquis, and especially of Marco Polo. (See L. of M. Polo, by
    Zurla, in Collezione di Vite e Ritratti d'Illustri Italiani. Pad.
    1816.)

[24] See Städtewesen des Mittelalters, by K. D. Hüllmann, Bonn, 1829,
    vol. iv.

    After speaking of the Missions of Pope Innocent IV. and St. Lewis,
    this author sketches the Travels of the Polos, and then proceeds:--
    "Such are the clumsily compiled contents of this ecclesiastical
    fiction (Kirchengeschichtlichen Dichtung) disguised as a Book of
    Travels, a thing devised generally in the spirit of the age, but
    specially in the interests of the Clergy and of Trade.... This
    compiler's aim was analogous to that of the inventor of the Song of
    Roland, to kindle enthusiasm for the conversion of the Mongols, and so
    to facilitate commerce through their dominions.... Assuredly the Poli
    never got further than Great Bucharia, which was then reached by many
    Italian Travellers. What they have related of the regions of the
    Mongol Empire lying further east consists merely of recollections of
    the bazaar and travel-talk of traders from those countries; whilst the
    notices of India, Persia, Arabia, and Ethiopia, are borrowed from
    Arabic Works. The compiler no doubt carries his audacity in fiction a
    long way, when he makes his hero Marcus assert that he had been
    seventeen years in Kúblái's service," etc. etc. (pp. 360-362).

    In the French edition of Malcolm's History of Persia (II. 141),
    Marco is styled "prêtre Venetien"! I do not know whether this is due
    to Sir John or to the translator.

    [Polo is also called "a Venetian Priest," in a note, vol. i., p. 409,
    of the original edition of London, 1815, 2 vols., 4to.--H. C.]

XII. CONTEMPORARY RECOGNITION OF POLO AND HIS BOOK.

[Sidenote: How far was there diffusion of his Book in his own day?]

75. But we must return for a little to Polo's own times. Ramusio states, as we have seen, that
immediately after the first commission of Polo's narrative to writing (in Latin as he imagined),
many copies of it were made, it was translated into the vulgar tongue, and in a few months
all Italy was full of it.

The few facts that we can collect do not justify this view of the rapid and diffused renown
of the Traveller and his Book. The number of MSS. of the latter dating from the 14th century
is no doubt considerable, but a large proportion of these are of Pipino's condensed Latin Translation,
which was not put forth, if we can trust Ramusio, till 1320, and certainly not much earlier.
The whole number of MSS. in various languages that we have been able to register, amounts to
about eighty. I find it difficult to obtain statistical data as to the comparative number of
copies of different works existing in manuscript. With Dante's great Poem, of which there are
reckoned close upon 500 MSS.,[1] comparison would be inappropriate. But of the Travels of Friar
Odoric, a poor work indeed beside Marco Polo's, I reckoned thirty-nine MSS., and could now
add at least three more to the list. [I described seventy-three in my edition of Odoric.--H.
C.] Also I find that of the nearly contemporary work of Brunetto Latini, the Tresor, a sort
of condensed Encyclopaedia of knowledge, but a work which one would scarcely have expected
to approach the popularity of Polo's Book, the Editor enumerates some fifty MSS. And from the
great frequency with which one encounters in Catalogues both MSS. and early printed editions
of Sir John Maundevile, I should suppose that the lying wonders of our English Knight had a
far greater popularity and more extensive diffusion than the veracious and more sober marvels
of Polo.[2] To Southern Italy Polo's popularity certainly does not seem at any time to have
extended. I cannot learn that any MS. of his Book exists in any Library of the late Kingdom
of Naples or in Sicily.[3]

Dante, who lived for twenty-three years after Marco's work was written, and who touches so
many things in the seen and unseen Worlds, never alludes to Polo, nor I think to anything that
can be connected with his Book. I believe that no mention of Cathay occurs in the Divina Commedia.
That distant region is indeed mentioned more than once in the poems of a humbler contemporary,
Francesco da Barberino, but there is nothing in his allusions besides this name to suggest
any knowledge of Polo's work.[4]

Neither can I discover any trace of Polo or his work in that of his contemporary and countryman,
Marino Sanudo the Elder, though this worthy is well acquainted with the somewhat later work
of Hayton, and many of the subjects which he touches in his own book would seem to challenge
a reference to Marco's labours.

[Sidenote: Contemporary references to Polo.]

76. Of contemporary or nearly contemporary references to our Traveller by name, the following
are all that I can produce, and none of them are new.

First there is the notice regarding his presentation of his book to Thibault de Cepoy, of which
we need say no more (supra, p. 68).

Next there is the Preface to Friar Pipino's Translation, which we give at length in the Appendix
(E) to these notices. The phraseology of this appears to imply that Marco was still alive,
and this agrees with the date assigned to the work by Ramusio. Pipino was also the author of
a Chronicle, of which a part was printed by Muratori, and this contains chapters on the Tartar
wars, the destruction of the Old Man of the Mountain, etc., derived from Polo. A passage not
printed by Muratori has been extracted by Prof. Bianconi from a MS. of this Chronicle in the
Modena Library, and runs as follows:--

  "The matters which follow, concerning the magnificence of the Tartar
  Emperors, whom in their language they call Cham as we have said, are
  related by Marcus Paulus the Venetian in a certain Book of his which has
  been translated by me into Latin out of the Lombardic Vernacular. Having
  gained the notice of the Emperor himself and become attached to his
  service, he passed nearly 27 years in the Tartar countries."[5]

Again we have that mention of Marco by Friar Jacopo d'Acqui, which we have quoted in connection
with his capture by the Genoese, at p. 54.[6] And the Florentine historian GIOVANNI VILLANI,[7]
when alluding to the Tartars, says:--

  "Let him who would make full acquaintance with their history examine the
  book of Friar Hayton, Lord of Colcos in Armenia, which he made at the
  instance of Pope Clement V., and also the Book called Milione which
  was made by Messer Marco Polo of Venice, who tells much about their
  power and dominion, having spent a long time among them. And so let us
  quit the Tartars and return to our subject, the History of Florence."[8]

[Sidenote: Further contemporary references.]

77. Lastly, we learn from a curious passage in a medical work by PIETRO OF ABANO, a celebrated
physician and philosopher, and a man of Polo's own generation, that he was personally acquainted
with the Traveller. In a discussion on the old notion of the non-habitability of the Equatorial
regions, which Pietro controverts, he says:[9]

.]

  "In the country of the ZINGHI there is seen a star as big as a sack. I
  know a man who has seen it, and he told me it had a faint light like a
  piece of a cloud, and is always in the south.[11] I have been told of
  this and other matters by MARCO the Venetian, the most extensive
  traveller and the most diligent inquirer whom I have ever known. He saw
  this same star under the Antarctic; he described it as having a great
  tail, and drew a figure of it thus. He also told me that he saw the
  Antarctic Pole at an altitude above the earth apparently equal to the
  length of a soldier's lance, whilst the Arctic Pole was as much below
  the horizon. 'Tis from that place, he says, that they export to us
  camphor, lign-aloes, and brazil. He says the heat there is intense, and
  the habitations few. And these things he witnessed in a certain island
  at which he arrived by Sea. He tells me also that there are (wild?) men
  there, and also certain very great rams that have very coarse and stiff
  wool just like the bristles of our pigs."[12]

In addition to these five I know no other contemporary references to Polo, nor indeed any other
within the 14th century, though such there must surely be, excepting in a Chronicle written
after the middle of that century by JOHN of YPRES, Abbot of St. Bertin, otherwise known as
Friar John the Long, and himself a person of very high merit in the history of Travel, as a
precursor of the Ramusios, Hakluyts and Purchases, for he collected together and translated
(when needful) into French all of the most valuable works of Eastern Travel and Geography produced
in the age immediately preceding his own.[13] In his Chronicle the Abbot speaks at some length
of the adventures of the Polo Family, concluding with a passage to which we have already had
occasion to refer:

  "And so Messers Nicolaus and Maffeus, with certain Tartars, were sent a
  second time to these parts; but Marcus Pauli was retained by the Emperor
  and employed in his military service, abiding with him for a space of 27
  years. And the Cham, on account of his ability despatched him upon
  affairs of his to various parts of Tartary and India and the Islands, on
  which journeys he beheld many of the marvels of those regions. And
  concerning these he afterwards composed a book in the French vernacular,
  which said Book of Marvels, with others of the same kind, we do
  possess." (Thesaur. Nov. Anecdot. III. There is, however, a notable work which is ascribed to a rather early
date in the 14th century, and which, though it contains no reference to
Polo by name, shows a thorough acquaintance with his book, and borrows
themes largely from it This is the poetical Romance of Bauduin de Sebourc,
an exceedingly clever and vivacious production, partaking largely of that
bantering, half-mocking spirit which is, I believe, characteristic of many
of the later mediaeval French Romances.[14] Bauduin is a knight who, after
a very wild and loose youth, goes through an extraordinary series of
adventures, displaying great faith and courage, and eventually becomes
King of Jerusalem. I will cite some of the traits evidently derived from
our Traveller, which I have met with in a short examination of this
curious work.

Bauduin, embarked on a dromond in the Indian Sea, is wrecked in the territory of Baudas, and
near a city called Falise, which stands on the River of Baudas. The people of this city were
an unbelieving race.

  "Il ne créoient Dieu, Mahon, né Tervogant,
  Ydole, cruchéfis, déable, né tirant."                    P. 300.

Their only belief was this, that when a man died a great fire should be made beside his tomb,
in which should be burned all his clothes, arms, and necessary furniture, whilst his horse
and servant should be put to death, and then the dead man would have the benefit of all these
useful properties in the other world.[15] Moreover, if it was the king that died--

  "Sé li rois de la terre i aloit trespassant,
       *       *       *       *       *
  Si fasoit-on tuer, .viij. jour en un tenant,
  Tout chiaus c'on encontroit par la chité passant,
  Pour tenir compaingnie leur ségnor soffisant.
  Telle estoit le créanche ou païs dont je cant!"[16]      P. 301.

Baudin arrives when the king has been dead three days, and through dread of this custom all
the people of the city are shut up in their houses. He enters an inn, and helps himself to
a vast repast, having been fasting for three days. He is then seized and carried before the
king, Polibans by name. We might have quoted this prince at p. 87 as an instance of the diffusion
of the French tongue:

  "Polibans sot Fransois, car on le doctrina:
  j. renoiés de Franche. vij. ans i demora,
  Qui li aprist Fransois, si que bel en parla."            P. 309.

Bauduin exclaims against their barbarous belief, and declares the Christian doctrine to the
king, who acknowledges good points in it, but concludes:

  "Vassaus, dist Polibans, à le chière hardie,
  Jà ne crerrai vou Dieux, à nul jour de ma vie;
  Né vostre Loy ne vaut une pomme pourie!"                 P. 311.

Bauduin proposes to prove his Faith by fighting the prince, himself unarmed, the latter with
all his arms. The prince agrees, but is rather dismayed at Bauduin's confidence, and desires
his followers, in case of his own death, to burn with him horses, armour, etc., asking at the
same time which of them would consent to burn along with him, in order to be his companions
in the other world:

  "Là en i ot. ij'e. dont cascuns s'escria:
  Nous morons volentiers, quant vo corps mort sara!"[17]  P. 313.

Bauduin's prayer for help is miraculously granted; Polibans is beaten, and converted by a vision.
He tells Bauduin that in his neighbourhood, beyond Baudas--

                     "ou. v. liewes, ou. vi.
  Ché un felles prinches, orgoellieus et despis;
  De la Rouge-Montaingne est Prinches et Marchis.
  Or vous dirai comment il a ses gens nouris:
    Je vous di que chius Roys a fait un Paradis
  Tant noble et gratieus, et plain de tels déliis,
       *       *       *       *       *
  Car en che Paradis est un riex establis,
  Qui se partist en trois, en che noble pourpris:
  En l'un coert li clarés, d'espises bien garnis;
  Et en l'autre li miés, qui les a resouffis;
  Et li vins di pieument i queurt par droit avis--
       *       *       *       *       *
  Il n'i vente, né gèle. Che liés est de samis,
  De riches dras de soie, bien ouvrés à devis.
  Et aveukes tout che que je chi vous devis,
  I a. ij'e puchelles qui moult ont cler les vis,
  Carolans et tresquans, menans gales et ris.
  Et si est li dieuesse, dame et suppellatis,
  Qui doctrine les autres et en fais et en dis,
  Celle est la fille au Roy c'on dist des Haus-Assis."[18]
                                                           Pp. 319-320.

This Lady Ivorine, the Old Man's daughter, is described among other points as having--

  "Les iex vairs com faucons, nobles et agentis."[19]      P. 320.

The King of the Mountain collects all the young male children of the country, and has them
brought up for nine or ten years:

  "Dedens un lieu oscur: là les met-on toudis
  Aveukes males bestes; kiens, et cas, et soris,
  Culoères, et lisaerdes, escorpions petis.
  Là endroit ne peut nuls avoir joie, né ris."             Pp. 320-321.

And after this dreary life they are shown the Paradise, and told that such shall be their portion
if they do their Lord's behest.

  "S'il disoit à son homme: 'Va-t-ent droit à Paris;
  Si me fier d'un coutel le Roy de Saint Denis,
  Jamais n'aresteroit, né par nuit né par dis,
  S'aroit tué le Roy, voïant tous ches marchis;
  Et déuist estre à fources traïnés et mal mis.'"          P. 321.

Bauduin determines to see this Paradise and the lovely Ivorine. The road led by Baudas:

  "Or avoit à che tamps, sé l'istoire ne ment,
  En le chit de Baudas Kristiens jusqu' à cent;
  Qui manonent illoec par tréu d'argent,
  Que cascuns cristiens au Roy-Calife rent.
    Li pères du Calife, qui régna longement,
  Ama les Crestiens, et Dieu primièrement:
       *       *       *       *       *
  Et lor fist establir. j. monstier noble et gent,
  Où Crestien faisoient faire lor sacrement.
  Une mout noble pière lor donna proprement,
  Où on avoit posé Mahon moult longement."[20]             P. 322.

The story is, in fact, that which Marco relates of Samarkand.[21] The Caliph dies. His son
hates the Christians. His people complain of the toleration of the Christians and their minister;
but he says his father had pledged him not to interfere, and he dared not forswear himself.
If, without doing so, he could do them an ill turn, he would gladly. The people then suggest
their claim to the stone:

  "Or leur donna vos pères, dont che fu mesprisons.
  Ceste pierre, biaus Sire, Crestiens demandons:
  Il ne le porront rendre, pour vrai le vous disons,
  Si li monstiers n'est mis et par pièches et par mons;
  Et s'il estoit desfais, jamais ne le larons
  Refaire chi-endroit. Ensément averons
  Faites et acomplies nostres ententions."                 P. 324.

The Caliph accordingly sends for Maistre Thumas, the Priest of the Christians, and tells him
the stone must be given up:

  "Il a. c. ans ut plus c'on i mist à solas
  Mahon, le nostre Dieu: dont che n'est mie estas
  Que li vous monstiers soit fais de nostre harnas!"       P. 324.

Master Thomas, in great trouble, collects his flock, mounts the pulpit, and announces the calamity.
Bauduin and his convert Polibans then arrive. Bauduin recommends confession, fasting, and prayer.
They follow his advice, and on the third day the miracle occurs:

  "L'escripture le dist, qui nous achertéfie
  Que le pierre Mahon, qui ou mur fut fiquie,
  Sali hors du piler, coi que nul vous en die,
  Droit enmi le monstier, c'onques ne fut brisie.
  Et demoura li traus, dont le pière ert widie,
  Sans pière est sans quailliel, à cascune partie;
  Chou deseure soustient, par divine maistrie,
  Tout en air proprement, n'el tenés a falie.
    Encore le voit-on en ichelle partie:
  Qui croire ne m'en voelt, si voist; car je l'en prie!"   P. 327.

The Caliph comes to see, and declares it to be the Devil's doing. Seeing Polibans, who is his
cousin, he hails him, but Polibans draws back, avowing his Christian faith. The Caliph in a
rage has him off to prison. Bauduin becomes very ill, and has to sell his horse and arms. His
disease is so offensive that he is thrust out of his hostel, and in his wretchedness sitting
on a stone he still avows his faith, and confesses that even then he has not received his deserts.
He goes to beg in the Christian quarter, and no one gives to him; but still his faith and love
to God hold out:

  "Ensément Bauduins chelle rue cherqua,
  Tant qu'à .j. chavetier Bauduins s'arresta,
  Qui chavates cousoit; son pain en garigna:
  Jones fu et plaisans, apertement ouvra.
  Bauduins le regarde, c'onques mot ne parla."             P. 334.

The cobler is charitable, gives him bread, shoes, and a grey coat that was a foot too short.
He then asks Bauduin if he will not learn his trade; but that is too much for the knightly stomach:

  "Et Bauduins respont, li preus et li membrus:
  J'ameroie trop miex que je fuisse pendus!"               P. 335.

The Caliph now in his Council expresses his vexation about the miracle, and says he does not
know how to disprove the faith of the Christians. A very sage old Saracen who knew Hebrew,
and Latin, and some thirty languages, makes a suggestion, which is, in fact, that about the
moving of the Mountain, as related by Marco Polo.[22] Master Thomas is sent for again, and
told that they must transport the high mountain of Thir to the valley of Joaquin, which lies
to the westward. He goes away in new despair and causes his clerk to sonner le clocke for his
people. Whilst they are weeping and wailing in the church, a voice is heard desiring them to
seek a certain holy man who is at the good cobler's, and to do him honour. God at his prayer
will do a miracle. They go in procession to Bauduin, who thinks they are mocking him. They
treat him as a saint, and strive to touch his old coat. At last he consents to pray along with
the whole congregation.

The Caliph is in his palace with his princes, taking his ease at a window. Suddenly he starts
up exclaiming:

  "'Seignour, par Mahoumet que j'aoure et tieng chier,
  Le Mont de Thir enportent le déable d'enfeir!'
  Li Califes s'écrie: 'Seignour, franc palasin,
  Voïés le Mont de Thir qui ch'est mis au chemin!
  Vés-le-là tout en air, par mon Dieu Apolin;
  Jà bientost le verrons ens ou val Joaquin!'"             P. 345.

The Caliph is converted, releases Polibans, and is baptised, taking the name of Bauduin, to
whom he expresses his fear of the Viex de la Montagne with his Hauts-Assis, telling anew the
story of the Assassin's Paradise, and so enlarges on the beauty of Ivorine that Bauduin is
smitten, and his love heals his malady. Toleration is not learned however:

  "Bauduins, li Califes, fist baptisier sa gent,
  Et qui ne voilt Dieu crore, li teste on li pourfent!"    P. 350.

The Caliph gives up his kingdom to Bauduin, proposing to follow him to the Wars of Syria. And
Bauduin presents the Kingdom to the Cobler.

Bauduin, the Caliph, and Prince Polibans then proceed to visit the Mountain of the Old Man.
The Caliph professes to him that they want help against Godfrey of Bouillon. The Viex says
he does not give a bouton for Godfrey; he will send one of his Hauts-Assis straight to his
tent, and give him a great knife of steel between fie et poumon!

After dinner they go out and witness the feat of devotion which we have quoted elsewhere.[23]
They then see the Paradise and the lovely Ivorine, with whose beauty Bauduin is struck dumb.
The lady had never smiled before; now she declares that he for whom she had long waited was
come. Bauduin exclaims:

  "'Madame, fu-jou chou qui sui le vous soubgis?'
  Quant la puchelle l'ot, lors li geta. j. ris;
  Et li dist: 'Bauduins, vous estes mes amis!'"            Pp. 362-363.

The Old One is vexed, but speaks pleasantly to his daughter, who replies with frightfully bad
language, and declares herself to be a Christian. The father calls out to the Caliph to kill
her. The Caliph pulls out a big knife and gives him a blow that nearly cuts him in two. The
amiable Ivorine says she will go with Bauduin:

  "'Sé mes pères est mors, n'en donne. j. paresis!'"       P. 364.

We need not follow the story further, as I did not trace beyond this point any distinct derivation
from our Traveller, with the exception of that allusion to the incombustible covering of the
napkin of St. Veronica, which I have quoted at p. 216 of this volume. But including this, here
are at least seven different themes borrowed from Marco Polo's book, on which to be sure his
poetical contemporary plays the most extraordinary variations.

[Sidenote: Chaucer and Marco Polo.]

[78 bis.--In the third volume of The Complete Works of Geoffrey Chaucer, Oxford, 1894, the
Rev. Walter W. Skeat gives (pp. 372 seqq.) an Account of the Sources of the Canterbury Tales.
Regarding The Squieres Tales, he says that one of his sources was the Travels of Marco; Mr.
Keighley in his Tales and Popular Fictions, published in 1834, at p. 76, distinctly derives
Chaucer's Tale from the travels of Marco Polo. (Skeat, l. c., p. 463, note.) I cannot quote
all the arguments given by the Rev. W. W. Skeat to support his theory, pp. 463-477.

Regarding the opinion of Professor Skeat of Chaucer's indebtedness to Marco Polo, cf. Marco
Polo and the Squire's Tale, by Professor John Matthews Manly, vol. xi. of the Publications
of the Modern Language Association of America, 1896, pp. 349-362. Mr. Manly says (p. 360):
"It seems clear, upon reviewing the whole problem, that if Chaucer used Marco Polo's narrative,
he either carelessly or intentionally confused all the features of the setting that could possibly
be confused, and retained not a single really characteristic trait of any person, place or
event. It is only by twisting everything that any part of Chaucer's story can be brought into
relation with any part of Polo's. To do this might be allowable, if any rational explanation
could be given for Chaucer's supposed treatment of his 'author,' or if there were any scarcity
of sources from which Chaucer might have obtained as much information about Tartary as he seems
really to have possessed; but such an explanation would be difficult to devise, and there is
no such scarcity. Any one of half a dozen accessible accounts could be distorted into almost
if not quite as great resemblance to the Squire's Tale as Marco Polo's can."

Mr. A. W. Pollard, in his edition of The Squire's Tale (Lond., 1899) writes: "A very able paper,
by Prof. J. M. Manly, demonstrates the needlessness of Prof. Skeat's theory, which has introduced
fresh complications into an already complicated story. My own belief is that, though we may
illustrate the Squire's Tale from these old accounts of Tartary, and especially from Marco
Polo, because he has been so well edited by Colonel Yule, there is very little probability
that Chaucer consulted any of them. It is much more likely that he found these details where
he found more important parts of his story, i.e. in some lost romance. But if we must suppose
that he provided his own local colour, we have no right to pin him down to using Marco Polo
to the exclusion of other accessible authorities." Mr. Pollard adds in a note (p. xiii.): "There
are some features in these narratives, e.g. the account of the gorgeous dresses worn at the
Kaan's feast, which Chaucer with his love of colour could hardly have helped reproducing if
he had known them."--H. C.]

[1] See Ferrazzi, Manuele Dantesca, Bassano, 1865, p. 729.

[2] In Quaritch's catalogue for Nov. 1870 there is only one old edition of
    Polo; there are nine of Maundevile. In 1839 there were nineteen MSS.
    of the latter author catalogued in the British Museum Library. There
    are now only six of Marco Polo. At least twenty-five editions of
    Maundevile and only five of Polo were printed in the 15th century.

[3] I have made personal enquiry at the National Libraries of Naples and
    Palermo, at the Communal Library in the latter city, and at the
    Benedictine Libraries of Monte Cassino, Monreale, S. Martino, and
    Catania.

    In the 15th century, when Polo's book had become more generally
    diffused we find three copies of it in the Catalogue of the Library of
    Charles VI. of France, made at the Louvre in 1423, by order of the
    Duke of Bedford.

    The estimates of value are curious. They are in sols parisis, which
    we shall not estimate very wrongly at a shilling each:--

    "No. 295. Item. Marcus Paulus; en ung cahier escript de lettre
    formée en françois, à deux coulombes. Commt. ou ii'e fo. 'deux frères
    prescheurs,' et ou derrenier 'que sa arrières.' X. s. p.

    "No. 334. Item. Marcus Paulus. XV. s. p.

    "No. 336. Item. Marcus Paulus; non enluminé, escript en françois,
    de lettre de forme. Commt. ou ii'e fo. 'vocata moult grant,' & ou
    derrenier 'ilec dist il.' Couvert de cuir blanc, à deux fermouers de
    laton. XII. s. p."

        (Inventaire de la Bibliothèque du Roi Charles VI., etc.
        Paris, Société des Bibliophiles, 1867.)

[4] See Del Reggimento e de' Costumi delle donne di Messer Francesco da
    Barberino, Roma, 1815, pp. 166 and 271. The latter passage runs thus,
    on Slavery:--

      "E fu indutta prima da Noé,
      E fu cagion lo vin, perchè si egge:
      Ch' egli è un paese, dove
      Son molti servi in parte di Cathay:
      Che per questa cagione
      Hanno a nimico il vino,
      E non ne beon, nè voglion vedere."

    The author was born the year before Dante (1264), and though he lived
    to 1348 it is probable that the poems in question were written in his
    earlier years. Cathay was no doubt known by dim repute long before
    the final return of the Polos, both through the original journey of
    Nicolo and Maffeo, and by information gathered by the Missionary
    Friars. Indeed, in 1278 Pope Nicolas III., in consequence of
    information said to have come from Abaka Khan of Persia, that Kúblái
    was a baptised Christian, sent a party of Franciscans with a long
    letter to the Kaan Quobley, as he is termed. They never seem to have
    reached their destination. And in 1289 Nicolas IV. entrusted a similar
    mission to Friar John of Monte Corvino, which eventually led to very
    tangible results. Neither of the Papal letters, however, mentions
    Cathay. (See Mosheim, App. pp. 76 and 94.)

[5] See Muratori, IX. 583, seqq.; Bianconi, Mem. I. p. 37.

[6] This Friar makes a strange hotch-potch of what he had read, e.g.:
    "The Tartars, when they came out of the mountains, made them a king,
    viz., the son of Prester John, who is thus vulgarly termed Vetulus de
    la Montagna!" (Mon. Hist. Patr. Script. III. 1557.)

[7] G. Villani died in the great plague of 1348. But his book was begun
    soon after Marco's was written, for he states that it was the sight of
    the memorials of greatness which he witnessed at Rome, during the
    Jubilee of 1300, that put it into his head to write the history of the
    rising glories of Florence, and that he began the work after his
    return home. (Bk. VIII. ch. 36.)

[8] Book V. ch. 29.

[9] Petri Aponensis Medici ac Philosophi Celeberrimi, Conciliator,
    Venice, 1521, fol. 97. Peter was born in 1250 at Abano, near Padua,
    and was Professor of Medicine at the University in the latter city.
    He twice fell into the claws of the Unholy Office, and only escaped
    them by death in 1316.

[10] [It is curious that this figure is almost exactly that which among
    oriental carpets is called a "cloud." I have heard the term so applied
    by Vincent Robinson. It often appears in old Persian carpets, and also
    in Chinese designs. Mr. Purdon Clarke tells me it is called nebula
    in heraldry; it is also called in Chinese by a term signifying cloud;
    in Persian, by a term which he called silen-i-khitai, but of this I
    can make nothing.--MS. Note by Yule.]

[11] The great Magellanic cloud? In the account of Vincent Yanez Pinzon's
    Voyage to the S.W. in 1499 as given in Ramusio (III. 15) after Pietro
    Martire d'Anghieria, it is said:--"Taking the astrolabe in hand, and
    ascertaining the Antarctic Pole, they did not see any star like our
    Pole Star; but they related that they saw another manner of stars very
    different from ours, and which they could not clearly discern because
    of a certain dimness which diffused itself about those stars, and
    obstructed the view of them." Also the Kachh mariners told Lieutenant
    Leech that midway to Zanzibar there was a town (?) called Marethee,
    where the North Pole Star sinks below the horizon, and they steer by
    a fixed cloud in the heavens. (Bombay Govt. Selections, No. XV. N.S.
    p. 215.)

    The great Magellan cloud is mentioned by an old Arab writer as a white
    blotch at the foot of Canopus, visible in the Tehama along the Red
    Sea, but not in Nejd or 'Irák. Humboldt, in quoting this, calculates
    that in A.D. 1000 the Great Magellan would have been visible at Aden
    some degrees above the horizon. (Examen, V. 235.)

[12] This passage contains points that are omitted in Polo's book, besides
    the drawing implied to be from Marco's own hand! The island is of
    course Sumatra. The animal is perhaps the peculiar Sumatran wild-goat,
    figured by Marsden, the hair of which on the back is "coarse and
    strong, almost like bristles." (Sumatra, p. 115.)

[13] A splendid example of Abbot John's Collection is the Livre des
    Merveilles of the Great French Library (No. 18 in our App. F.).
    This contains Polo, Odoric, William of Boldensel, the Book of the
    Estate of the Great Kaan by the Archbishop of Soltania, Maundevile,
    Hayton, and Ricold of Montecroce, of which all but Polo and Maundevile
    are French versions by this excellent Long John. A list of the Polo
    miniatures is given in App. F. of this Edition, p. 527.

    It is a question for which there is sufficient ground, whether the
    Persian Historians Rashiduddin and Wassáf, one or other or both, did
    not derive certain information that appears in their histories, from
    Marco Polo personally, he having spent many months in Persia, and at
    the Court of Tabriz, when either or both may have been there. Such
    passages as that about the Cotton-trees of Guzerat (vol. ii. p. 393,
    and note), those about the horse trade with Maabar (id. p. 340, and
    note), about the brother-kings of that country (id. p. 331), about the
    naked savages of Necuveram (id. p. 306), about the wild people of
    Sumatra calling themselves subjects of the Great Kaan (id. pp. 285,
    292, 293, 299), have so strong a resemblance to parallel passages in
    one or both of the above historians, as given in the first and third
    volumes of Elliot, that the probability, at least, of the Persian
    writers having derived their information from Polo might be fairly
    maintained.

[14] Li Romans de Bauduin de Sebourc III'e Roy de Jhérusalem; Poème du
    XIV'e Siècle; Valenciennes, 1841. 2 vols. 8vo. I was indebted to two
    references of M. Pauthier's for knowledge of the existence of this
    work. He cites the legends of the Mountain, and of the Stone of the
    Saracens from an abstract, but does not seem to have consulted the
    work itself, nor to have been aware of the extent of its borrowings
    from Marco Polo. M. Génin, from whose account Pauthier quotes,
    ascribes the poem to an early date after the death of Philip the Fair
    (1314). See Pauthier, pp. 57, 58, and 140.

[15] See Polo, vol. i. p. 204, and vol. ii. p. 191.

[16] See Polo, vol. i. p. 246.

[17] See Polo, vol. ii. p. 339.

[18] See Polo, vol. i. p. 140. Hashishi has got altered into
    Haus Assis.

[19] See vol. i. p. 358, note.

[20] See vol. i. p. 189, note 2.

[21] Vol. i. pp. 183-186.

[22] Vol. i. pp. 68 seqq. The virtuous cobler is not left out, but is made
    to play second fiddle to the hero Bauduin

[23] Vol. i. p. 144.

XIII. NATURE OF POLO'S INFLUENCE ON GEOGRAPHICAL KNOWLEDGE.

[Sidenote: Tardy operation, and causes thereof.]

79. Marco Polo contributed such a vast amount of new facts to the knowledge of the Earth's
surface, that one might have expected his book to have had a sudden effect upon the Science
of Geography: but no such result occurred speedily, nor was its beneficial effect of any long
duration.

No doubt several causes contributed to the slowness of its action upon the notions of Cosmographers,
of which the unreal character attributed to the Book, as a collection of romantic marvels rather
than of geographical and historical facts, may have been one, as Santarem urges. But the essential
causes were no doubt the imperfect nature of publication before the invention of the press;
the traditional character which clogged geography as well as all other branches of knowledge
in the Middle Ages; and the entire absence of scientific principle in what passed for geography,
so that there was no organ competent to the assimilation of a large mass of new knowledge.

Of the action of the first cause no examples can be more striking than we find in the false
conception of the Caspian as a gulf of the Ocean, entertained by Strabo, and the opposite error
in regard to the Indian Sea held by Ptolemy, who regards it as an enclosed basin, when we contrast
these with the correct ideas on both subjects possessed by Herodotus. The later Geographers
no doubt knew his statements, but did not appreciate them, probably from not possessing the
evidence on which they were based.

[Sidenote: General characteristics of Mediaeval Cosmography.]

80. As regards the second cause alleged, we may say that down nearly to the middle of the 15th
century cosmographers, as a rule, made scarcely any attempt to reform their maps by any elaborate
search for new matter, or by lights that might be collected from recent travellers. Their world
was in its outline that handed down by the traditions of their craft, as sanctioned by some
Father of the Church, such as Orosius or Isidore, as sprinkled with a combination of classical
and mediaeval legend; Solinus being the great authority for the former. Almost universally
the earth's surface is represented as filling the greater part of a circular disk, rounded
by the ocean; a fashion that already existed in the time of Aristotle and was ridiculed by
him.[1] No dogma of false geography was more persistent or more pernicious than this. (Ps.
lxxiii. 12).[3] The Terrestrial Paradise was represented as occupying the extreme East, because
it was found in Genesis that the Lord planted a garden east ward in Eden.[4] Gog and Magog
were set in the far north or north-east, because it was said again in Ezekiel: "Ecce Ego super
te Gog Principem capitis Mosoch et Thubal ... et ascendere te faciam de lateribus Aquilonis,"
whilst probably the topography of those mysterious nationalities was completed by a girdle
of mountains out of the Alexandrian Fables. The loose and scanty nomenclature was mainly borrowed
from Pliny or Mela through such Fathers as we have named; whilst vacant spaces were occupied
by Amazons, Arimaspians, and the realm of Prester John. A favourite representation of the inhabited
earth was this [Symbol]; a great O enclosing a T, which thus divides the circle in three parts;
the greater or half-circle being Asia, the two quarter circles Europe and Africa.[5] These
Maps were known to St. Augustine.[6]

[Sidenote: Roger Bacon as a geographer.]

81. Even Ptolemy seems to have been almost unknown; and indeed had his Geography been studied
it might, with all its errors, have tended to some greater endeavours after accuracy. Roger
Bacon, whilst lamenting the exceeding deficiency of geographical knowledge in the Latin world,
and purposing to essay an exacter distribution of countries, says he will not attempt to do
so by latitude and longitude, for that is a system of which the Latins have learned nothing.
He himself, whilst still somewhat burdened by the authoritative dicta of "saints and sages"
of past times, ventures at least to criticise some of the latter, such as Pliny and Ptolemy,
and declares his intention to have recourse to the information of those who have travelled
most extensively over the Earth's surface. And judging from the good use he makes, in his description
of the northern parts of the world, of the Travels of Rubruquis, whom he had known and questioned,
besides diligently studying his narrative,[7] we might have expected much in Geography from
this great man, had similar materials been available to him for other parts of the earth. He
did attempt a map with mathematical determination of places, but it has not been preserved.[8]

It may be said with general truth that the world-maps current up to the end of the 13th century
had more analogy to the mythical cosmography of the Hindus than to any thing properly geographical.
Both, no doubt, were originally based in the main on real features. In the Hindu cosmography
these genuine features are symmetrised as in a kaleidoscope; in the European cartography they
are squeezed together in a manner that one can only compare to a pig in brawn. Here and there
some feature strangely compressed and distorted is just recognisable. A splendid example of
this kind of map is that famous one at Hereford, executed about A.D. 1275, of which a facsimile
has lately been published, accompanied by a highly meritorious illustrative Essay.[9]

82. Among the Arabs many able men, from the early days of Islám, took an interest in Geography,
and devoted labour to geographical compilations, in which they often made use of their own
observations, of the itineraries of travellers, and of other fresh knowledge. But somehow or
other their maps were always far behind their books. Though they appear to have had an early
translation of Ptolemy, and elaborate Tables of Latitudes and Longitudes form a prominent feature
in many of their geographical treatises, there appears to be no Arabic map in existence, laid
down with meridians and parallels; whilst all of their best known maps are on the old system
of the circular disk. This apparent incapacity for map-making appears to have acted as a heavy
drag and bar upon progress in Geography among the Arabs, notwithstanding its early promise
among them, and in spite of the application to its furtherance of the great intellects of some
(such as Abu Rihán al-Biruni), and of the indefatigable spirit of travel and omnivorous curiosity
of others (such as Mas'údi).

[Sidenote: Marino Sanudo the Elder.]

83. Some distinct trace of acquaintance with the Arabian Geography is to be found in the World-Map
of Marino Sanudo the Elder, constructed between 1300 and 1320; and this may be regarded as
an exceptionally favourable specimen of the cosmography in vogue, for the author was a diligent
investigator and compiler, who evidently took a considerable interest in geographical questions,
and had a strong enjoyment and appreciation of a map.[10] Nor is the map in question without
some result of these characteristics. His representation of Europe, Northern Africa, Syria,
Asia Minor, Arabia and its two gulfs, is a fair approximation to general facts; his collected
knowledge has enabled him to locate, with more or less of general truth, Georgia, the Iron
Gates, Cathay, the Plain of Moghan, Euphrates and Tigris, Persia, Bagdad, Kais, Aden (though
on the wrong side of the Red Sea), Abyssinia (Habesh), Zangibar (Zinz), Jidda (Zede), etc.
But after all the traditional forms are too strong for him. Jerusalem is still the centre of
the disk of the habitable earth, so that the distance is as great from Syria to Gades in the
extreme West, as from Syria to the India Interior of Prester John which terminates the extreme
East. And Africa beyond the Arabian Gulf is carried, according to the Arabian modification
of Ptolemy's misconception, far to the eastward until it almost meets the prominent shores
of India. The first genuine mediaeval attempt at a geographical construction that I know of,
absolutely free from the traditional idola, is the Map of the known World from the Portulano
Mediceo (in the Laurentian Library), of which an extract is engraved in the atlas of Baldelli-Boni's
Polo. I need not describe it, however, because I cannot satisfy myself that it makes much use
of Polo's contributions, and its facts have been embodied in a more ambitious work of the next
generation, the celebrated Catalan Map of 1375 in the great Library of Paris. This also, but
on a larger scale and in a more comprehensive manner, is an honest endeavour to represent the
known world on the basis of collected facts, casting aside all theories pseudo-scientific or
pseudo-theological; and a very remarkable work it is. In this map it seems to me Marco Polo's
influence, I will not say on geography, but on map-making, is seen to the greatest advantage.
His Book is the basis of the Map as regards Central and Further Asia, and partially as regards
India. His names are often sadly perverted, and it is not always easy to understand the view
that the compiler took of his itineraries. Still we have Cathay admirably placed in the true
position of China, as a great Empire filling the south-east of Asia. The Eastern Peninsula
of India is indeed absent altogether, but the Peninsula of Hither India is for the first time
in the History of Geography represented with a fair approximation to its correct form and position,[11]
and Sumatra also (Java) is not badly placed. Carajan, Vocian, Mien, and Bangala, are located
with a happy conception of their relation to Cathay and to India. Many details in India foreign
to Polo's book,[12] and some in Cathay (as well as in Turkestan and Siberia, which have been
entirely derived from other sources) have been embodied in the Map. But the study of his Book
has, I conceive, been essentially the basis of those great portions which I have specified,
and the additional matter has not been in mass sufficient to perplex the compiler. Hence we
really see in this Map something like the idea of Asia that the Traveller himself would have
presented, had he bequeathed a Map to us.

[Some years ago, I made a special study of the Far East in the Catalan Map. (L'Extrême-Orient
dans l'Atlas catalan de Charles V., Paris, 1895), and I have come to the conclusion that the
cartographer's knowledge of Eastern Asia is drawn almost entirely from Marco Polo. We give
a reproduction of part of the Catalan Map.--H. C.]

[Sidenote: Confusions in Cartography of the 16th century, from the endeavour to combine new
and old information.]

85. In the following age we find more frequent indications that Polo's book was diffused and
read. And now that the spirit of discovery began to stir, it was apparently regarded in a juster
light as a Book of Facts, and not as a mere Romman du Grant Kaan.[13] But in fact this age
produced new supplies of crude information in greater abundance than the knowledge of geographers
was prepared to digest or co-ordinate, and the consequence is that the magnificent Work of
Fra Mauro (1459), though the result of immense labour in the collection of facts and the endeavour
to combine them, really gives a considerably less accurate idea of Asia than that which the
Catalan Map had afforded.[14]

And when at a still later date the great burst of discovery eastward and westward took effect,
the results of all attempts to combine the new knowledge with the old was most unhappy. The
first and crudest forms of such combinations attempted to realise the ideas of Columbus regarding
the identity of his discoveries with the regions of the Great Kaan's dominion;[15] but even
after AMERICA had vindicated its independent position on the surface of the globe, and the
new knowledge of the Portuguese had introduced CHINA where the Catalan Map of the 14th century
had presented CATHAY, the latter country, with the whole of Polo's nomenclature, was shoved
away to the north, forming a separate system.[16] Henceforward the influence of Polo's work
on maps was simply injurious; and when to his nomenclature was added a sprinkling of Ptolemy's,
as was usual throughout the 16th century, the result was a most extraordinary hotch-potch,
conveying no approximation to any consistent representation of facts.

Thus, in a map of 1522,[17] running the eye along the north of Europe and Asia from West to
East, we find the following succession of names: Groenlandia, or Greenland, as a great peninsula
overlapping that of Norvegia and Suecia; Livonia, Plescovia and Moscovia, Tartaria bounded
on the South by Scithia extra Imaum, and on the East, by the Rivers Ochardes and Bautisis (out
of Ptolemy), which are made to flow into the Arctic Sea. South of these are Aureacithis and
Asmirea (Ptolemy's Auxacitis and Asmiraea), and Serica Regio. Then following the northern coast
Balor Regio,[18] Judei Clausi, i.e. the Ten Tribes who are constantly associated or confounded
with the Shut-up Nations of Gog and Magog. These impinge upon the River Polisacus, flowing
into the Northern Ocean in Lat. 75°, but which is in fact no other than Polo's Pulisanghin![19]
Immediately south of this is Tholomon Provincia (Polo's again), and on the coast Tangut, Cathaya,
the Rivers Caramoran and Oman (a misreading of Polo's Quian), Quinsay and Mangi.

[Sidenote: Gradual disappearance of Polo's nomenclature.]

86. The Maps of Mercator (1587) and Magini (1597) are similar in character, but more elaborate,
introducing China as a separate system. Such indeed also is Blaeu's Map (1663) excepting that
Ptolemy's contributions are reduced to one or two.

In Sanson's Map (1659) the data of Polo and the mediaeval Travellers are more cautiously handled,
but a new element of confusion is introduced in the form of numerous features derived from Edrisi.

It is scarcely worth while to follow the matter further. With the increase of knowledge of
Northern Asia from the Russian side, and that of China from the Maps of Martini, followed by
the surveys of the Jesuits, and with the real science brought to bear on Asiatic Geography
by such men as De l'Isle and D'Anville, mere traditional nomenclature gradually disappeared.
And the task which the study of Polo has provided for the geographers of later days has been
chiefly that of determining the true localities that his book describes under obsolete or corrupted
names.

[My late illustrious friend, Baron A. E. Nordenskiöld, who has devoted much time and labour
to the study of Marco Polo (see his Periplus, Stockholm, 1897), and published a facsimile edition
of one of the French MSS. kept in the Stockholm Royal Library (see vol. ii. Bibliography, p.
570), has given to The Geographical Journal for April, 1899, pp. 396-406, a paper on The Influence
of the "Travels of Marco Polo" on Jacobo Gastaldi's Maps of Asia. He writes (p. 398) that as
far as he knows, none "of the many learned men who have devoted their attention to the discoveries
of Marco Polo, have been able to refer to any maps in which all or almost all those places
mentioned by Marco Polo are given. All friends of the history of geography will therefore be
glad to hear that such an atlas from the middle of the sixteenth century really does exist,
viz. Gastaldi's 'Prima, seconda e terza parte dell Asia.'" All the names of places in Ramusio's
Marco Polo are introduced in the maps of Asia of Jacobo Gastaldi (1561). Cf. Periplus, liv.,
lv., and lvi. Before concluding, it may be desirable to say a few words on the subject of important
knowledge other than geographical, which various persons have supposed that Marco Polo must
have introduced from Eastern Asia to Europe.

Respecting the mariner's compass and gunpowder I shall say nothing, as no one now, I believe,
imagines Marco to have had anything to do with their introduction. But from a highly respectable
source in recent years we have seen the introduction of Block-printing into Europe connected
with the name of our Traveller. The circumstances are stated as follows:[20]

  "In the beginning of the 15th century a man named Pamphilo Castaldi, of
  Feltre ... was employed by the Seignory or Government of the Republic,
  to engross deeds and public edicts of various kinds ... the initial
  letters at the commencement of the writing being usually ornamented with
  red ink, or illuminated in gold and colours

  "According to Sansovino, certain stamps or types had been invented some
  time previously by Pietro di Natali, Bishop of Aquiloea.[21] These were
  made at Murano of glass, and were used to stamp or print the outline of
  the large initial letters of public documents, which were afterwards
  filled up by hand.... Pamphilo Castaldi improved on these glass types,
  by having others made of wood or metal, and having seen several Chinese
  books which the famous traveller Marco Polo had brought from China, and
  of which the entire text was printed with wooden blocks, he caused
  moveable wooden types to be made, each type containing a single letter;
  and with these he printed several broadsides and single leaves, at
  Venice, in the year 1426. Some of these single sheets are said to be
  preserved among the archives at Feltre....

  "The tradition continues that John Faust, of Mayence ... became
  acquainted with Castaldi, and passed some time with him, at his
  Scriptorium,... at Feltre;"

and in short developed from the knowledge so acquired the great invention of printing. Mr.
Curzon goes on to say that Panfilo Castaldi was born in 1398, and died in 1490, and that he
gives the story as he found it in an article written by Dr. Jacopo Facen, of Feltre, in a (Venetian?)
newspaper called Il Gondoliere, No. 103, of 27th December, 1843.

In a later paper Mr. Curzon thus recurs to the subject:[22]

  "Though none of the early block-books have dates affixed to them, many
  of them are with reason supposed to be more ancient than any books
  printed with moveable types. Their resemblance to Chinese block-books is
  so exact, that they would almost seem to be copied from the books
  commonly used in China. The impressions are taken off on one side of
  the paper only, and in binding, both the Chinese, and ancient German, or
  Dutch block-books, the blank sides of the pages are placed opposite each
  other, and sometimes pasted together.... The impressions are not taken
  off with printer's ink, but with a brown paint or colour, of a much
  thinner description, more in the nature of Indian ink, as we call it,
  which is used in printing Chinese books. Altogether the German and
  Oriental block-books are so precisely alike, in almost every respect,
  that ... we must suppose that the process of printing then must have
  been copied from ancient Chinese specimens, brought from that country by
  some early travellers, whose names have not been handed down to our
  times."

The writer then refers to the tradition about Guttemberg (so it is stated on this occasion,
not Faust) having learned Castaldi's art, etc., mentioning a circumstance which he supposes
to indicate that Guttemberg had relations with Venice; and appears to assent to the probability
of the story of the art having been founded on specimens brought home by Marco Polo.

This story was in recent years diligently propagated in Northern Italy, and resulted in the
erection at Feltre of a public statue of Panfilo Castaldi, bearing this inscription (besides
others of like tenor):--

  "To Panfilo Castaldi the illustrious Inventor of Movable Printing
  Types, Italy renders this Tribute of Honour, too long deferred."

In the first edition of this book I devoted a special note to the exposure of the worthlessness
of the evidence for this story.[23] This note was, with the present Essay, translated and published
at Venice by Comm. Berchet, but this challenge to the supporters of the patriotic romance,
so far as I have heard, brought none of them into the lists in its defence.

But since Castaldi has got his statue from the printers of Lombardy, would it not be mere equity
that the mariners of Spain should set up a statue at Huelva to the Pilot Alonzo Sanchez of
that port, who, according to Spanish historians, after discovering the New World, died in the
house of Columbus at Terceira, and left the crafty Genoese to appropriate his journals, and
rob him of his fame?

Seriously; if anybody in Feltre cares for the real reputation of his native city, let him do
his best to have that preposterous and discreditable fiction removed from the base of the statue.
If Castaldi has deserved a statue on other and truer grounds let him stand; if not, let him
be burnt into honest lime! I imagine that the original story that attracted Mr. Curzon was
more jeu d'esprit than anything else; but that the author, finding what a stone he had set
rolling, did not venture to retract.

[Sidenote: Frequent opportunities for such introduction in the age following Polo's.]

88. Mr. Curzon's own observations, which I have italicised about the resemblance of the two
systems are, however, very striking, and seem clearly to indicate the derivation of the art
from China. But I should suppose that in the tradition, if there ever was any genuine tradition
of the kind at Feltre (a circumstance worthy of all doubt), the name of Marco Polo was introduced
merely because it was so prominent a name in Eastern Travel. The fact has been generally overlooked
and forgotten[24] that, for many years in the course of the 14th century, not only were missionaries
of the Roman Church and Houses of the Franciscan Order established in the chief cities of China,
but a regular trade was carried on overland between Italy and China, by way of Tana (or Azov),
Astracan, Otrar and Kamul, insomuch that instructions for the Italian merchant following that
route form the two first chapters in the Mercantile Handbook of Balducci Pegolotti (circa 1340).[25]
Many a traveller besides Marco Polo might therefore have brought home the block-books. And
this is the less to be ascribed to him because he so curiously omits to speak of the art of
printing, when his subject seems absolutely to challenge its description.

[1] "They draw nowadays the map of the world in a laughable manner, for
    they draw the inhabited earth as a circle; but this is impossible,
    both from what we see and from reason." (Meteorolog. Lib. II.
    cap. 5.) Cf. Herodotus, iv. 36.

[2] In Dante's Cosmography, Jerusalem is the centre of our [Greek:
    oikouménae], whilst the Mount of Purgatory occupies the middle of the
    Antipodal hemisphere:--

      "Come ciò sia, se'l vuoi poter pensare,
        Dentro raccolto immagina Sion
        Con questo monte in su la terra stare,
      Sì, ch' ambodue hann' un solo orrizon
        E diversi emisperi"....
          --Purg. IV. 67.

[3] The belief, with this latter ground of it, is alluded to in curious
    verses by Jacopo Alighieri, Dante's son:--

      "E molti gran Profeti
      Filosofi e Poeti
      Fanno il colco dell' Emme
      Dov' è Gerusalemme;
      Se le loro scritture
      Hanno vere figure:

      E per la Santa fede
      Cristiana ancor si vede
      Che' l' suo principio Cristo
      Nel suo mezzo conquisto
      Per cui prese morte
      E vi pose la sorte."
          --(Rime Antiche Toscane, III. 9.)

    Though the general meaning of the second couplet is obvious, the
    expression il colco dell' Emme, "the couch of the M," is puzzling.
    The best solution that occurs to me is this: In looking at the world
    map of Marino Sanudo, noticed on p. 133, as engraved by Bongars in the
    Gesta Dei per Francos, you find geometrical lines laid down,
    connecting the N.E., N.W., S.E., and S.W. points, and thus forming a
    square inscribed in the circular disk of the Earth, with its diagonals
    passing through the Central Zion. The eye easily discerns in these a
    great M inscribed in the circle, with its middle angular point at
    Jerusalem. Gervasius of Tilbury (with some confusion in his mind
    between tropic and equinoxial, like that which Pliny makes in speaking
    of the Indian Mons Malleus) says that "some are of opinion that the
    Centre is in the place where the Lord spoke to the woman of Samaria at
    the well, for there, at the summer solstice, the noonday sun descends
    perpendicularly into the water of the well, casting no shadow; a thing
    which the philosophers say occurs at Syene"! (Otia Imperialia, by
    Liebrecht, p. 1.)

[4] This circumstance does not, however, show in the Vulgate.

[5]   "Veggiamo in prima in general la terra
      Come risiede e come il mar la serra.

      Un T dentro ad un O mostra il disegno
        Come in tre parti fu diviso il Mondo,
        E la superiore è il maggior regno
        Che quasi piglia la metà del tondo.

      ASIA chiamata: il gambo ritto è segno
      Che parte il terzo nome dal secondo
      AFFRICA dico da EUROPA: il mare
      Mediterran tra esse in mezzo appare."
          --La Sfera, di F. Leonardo di Stagio Dati, Lib. iii. st. 11.

[6] De Civ. Dei, xvi. 17, quoted by Peschel, 92.

[7] Opus Majus, Venice ed. pp. 142, seqq.

[8] Peschel, p. 195. This had escaped me.

[9] By the Rev. W. L. Bevan, M.A., and the Rev. H. W. Phillott, M.A. In
    Asia, they point out, the only name showing any recognition of modern
    knowledge is Samarcand.

[10] His work, Liber Secretorum Fidelium Crucis, intended to stimulate a
    new Crusade, has three capital maps, besides that of the World, one of
    which, translated, but otherwise in facsimile, is given at p. 18 of
    this volume. But besides these maps, he gives, in a tabular form of
    parallel columns, the reigning sovereigns in Europe and Asia connected
    with his historical retrospect, just on the plan presented in Sir
    Harris Nicolas's Chronology of History.

[11] I do not see that al-Birúni deserves the credit in this respect
    assigned to him by Professor Peschel, so far as one can judge from the
    data given by Sprenger (Peschel, p. 128; Post und Reise-Routen,
    81-82.)

[12] For example, Delli, which Polo does not name; Diogil (Deogír); on
    the Coromandel coast Setemelti, which I take to be a clerical error
    for Sette-Templi, the Seven Pagodas; round the Gulf of Cambay we
    have Cambetum (Kambayat), Cocintaya (Kokan-Tana, see vol. ii. p.
    396), Goga, Baroche, Neruala (Anharwala), and to the north Moltan.
    Below Multan are Hocibelch and Bargelidoa, two puzzles. The former
    is, I think, Uch-baligh, showing that part of the information was
    from Perso-Mongol sources.

[13] I see it stated by competent authority that Romman is often applied
    to any prose composition in a Romance language.

    In or about 1426, Prince Pedro of Portugal, the elder brother of the
    illustrious Prince Henry, being on a visit to Venice, was presented by
    the Signory with a copy of Marco Polo's book, together with a map
    already alluded to. (Major's P. Henry, pp. 61, 62.)

[14] This is partly due also to Fra Mauro's reversion to the fancy of the
    circular disk limiting the inhabited portion of the earth.

[15] An early graphic instance of this is Ruysch's famous map (1508). The
    following extract of a work printed as late as 1533 is an example of
    the like confusion in verbal description: "The Territories which are
    beyond the limits of Ptolemy's Tables have not yet been described on
    certain authority. Behind the Sinae and the Seres, and beyond 180° of
    East Longitude, many countries were discovered by one [quendam]
    Marco Polo a Venetian and others, and the sea-coasts of those
    countries have now recently again been explored by Columbus the
    Genoese and Amerigo Vespucci in navigating the Western Ocean.... To
    this part (of Asia) belong the territory called that of the
    Bachalaos [or Codfish, Newfoundland], Florida, the Desert of
    Lop, Tangut, Cathay, the realm of Mexico (wherein is the vast
    city of Temistitan, built in the middle of a great lake, but which
    the older travellers styled QUINSAY), besides Paria, Uraba, and
    the countries of the Canibals." (Joannis Schoneri Carolostadtii
    Opusculum Geogr., quoted by Humboldt, Examen, V. 171, 172.)

[16] In Robert Parke's Dedication of his Translation of Mendoza's, London,
    1st of January, 1589, he identifies China and Japan with the regions
    of which Paulus Venetus and Sir John Mandeuill "wrote long agoe."
    --MS. Note by Yule.

[17] "Totius Europae et Asiae Tabula Geographica, Auctore Thoma D.
    Aucupario. Edita Argentorati, MDXXII." Copied in Witsen.

[18] This strange association of Balor (i.e., Bolor, that name of so
    many odd vicissitudes, see pp. 178-179 infra) with the shut-up
    Israelites must be traced to a passage which Athanasius Kircher quotes
    from R. Abraham Pizol (qu. Peritsol?): "Regnum, inquit, Belor
    magnum et excelsum nimis, juxta omnes illos qui scripserunt
    Historicos. Sunt in eo Judaei plurimi inclusi, et illud in latere
    Orientali et Boreali," etc. (China Illustrata, p. 49.)

[19] Vol. ii. p. 1.

[20] A short Account of Libraries of Italy, by the Hon. R. Curzon
    (the late Lord de la Zouche); in Bibliog. and Hist. Miscellanies;
    Philobiblon Society, vol. i, 1854, pp. 6. seqq.

[21] P. del Natali was Bishop of Equilio, a city of the Venetian Lagoons,
    in the latter part of the 14th century. (See Ughelli, Italia Sacra,
    X. 87.) There is no ground whatever for connecting him with these
    inventions. The story of the glass types appears to rest entirely and
    solely on one obscure passage of Sansovino, who says that under the
    Doge Marco Corner (1365-1367): "certe Natale Veneto lasciò un libro
    della materie delle forme da giustar intorno alle lettere, ed il modo
    di formarle di vetro." There is absolutely nothing more. Some kind of
    stencilling seems indicated.

[22] History of Printing in China and Europe, in Philobiblon, vol. vi.
    p. 23.

[23] See Appendix L. in First Edition.

[24] Ramusio himself appears to have been entirely unconscious of it,
    vide supra, p. 3

[25] This subject has been fully treated in Cathay and the Way Thither.

XIV. EXPLANATIONS REGARDING THE BASIS ADOPTED FOR THE PRESENT TRANSLATION.

89. It remains to say a few words regarding the basis adopted for our English version of the
Traveller's record.

[Sidenote: Text followed by Marsden and by Pauthier.]

Ramusio's recension was that which Marsden selected for translation. But at the date of his
most meritorious publication nothing was known of the real literary history of Polo's Book,
and no one was aware of the peculiar value and originality of the French manuscript texts,
nor had Marsden seen any of them. A translation from one of those texts is a translation at
first hand; a translation from Ramusio's Italian is, as far as I can judge, the translation
of a translated compilation from two or more translations, and therefore, whatever be the merits
of its matter, inevitably carries us far away from the spirit and style of the original narrator.
M. Pauthier, I think, did well in adopting for the text of his edition the MSS. which I have
classed as of the second Type, the more as there had hitherto been no publication from those
texts. But editing a text in the original language, and translating, are tasks substantially
different in their demands.

[Sidenote: Eclectic formation of the English Text of this Translation.]

90. It will be clear from what has been said in the preceding pages that I should not regard
as a fair or full representation of Polo's Work, a version on which the Geographic Text did
not exercise a material influence. But to adopt that Text, with all its awkwardnesses and tautologies,
as the absolute subject of translation, would have been a mistake. What I have done has been,
in the first instance, to translate from Pauthier's Text. The process of abridgment in this
text, however it came about, has been on the whole judiciously executed, getting rid of the
intolerable prolixities of manner which belong to many parts of the Original Dictation, but
as a general rule preserving the matter. Having translated this,--not always from the Text
adopted by Pauthier himself, but with the exercise of my own judgment on the various readings
which that Editor lays before us,--I then compared the translation with the Geographic Text,
and transferred from the latter not only all items of real substance that had been omitted,
but also all expressions of special interest and character, and occasionally a greater fulness
of phraseology where condensation in Pauthier's text seemed to have been carried too far. And
finally I introduced between brackets everything peculiar to Ramusio's version that seemed
to me to have a just claim to be reckoned authentic, and that could be so introduced without
harshness or mutilation. Many passages from the same source which were of interest in themselves,
but failed to meet one or other of these conditions, have been given in the notes.[1]

[Sidenote: Mode of rendering proper names.]

91. As regards the reading of proper names and foreign words, in which there is so much variation
in the different MSS. and editions, I have done my best to select what seemed to be the true
reading from the G. T. and Pauthier's three MSS., only in some rare instances transgressing
this limit.

Where the MSS. in the repetition of a name afforded a choice of forms, I have selected that
which came nearest the real name when known. Thus the G. T. affords Baldasciain, Badascian,
Badasciam, Badausiam, Balasian. I adopt BADASCIAN, or in English spelling BADASHAN, because
it is closest to the real name Badakhshan. Another place appears as COBINAN, Cabanat, Cobian.
I adopt the first because it is the truest expression of the real name Koh-benán. In chapters
23, 24 of Book I., we have in the G. T. Asisim, Asciscin, Asescin, and in Pauthier's MSS. Hasisins,
Harsisins, etc. I adopt ASCISCIN, or in English spelling ASHISHIN, for the same reason as before.
So with Creman, Crerman, Crermain, QUERMAN, Anglicè KERMAN; Cormos, HORMOS, and many more.[2]

In two or three cases I have adopted a reading which I cannot show literatim in any authority,
but because such a form appears to be the just resultant from the variety of readings which
are presented; as in surveying one takes the mean of a number of observations when no one can
claim an absolute preference.

Polo's proper names, even in the French Texts, are in the main formed on an Italian fashion
of spelling.[3] I see no object in preserving such spelling in an English book, so after selecting
the best reading of the name I express it in English spelling, printing Badashan, Pashai, Kerman,
instead of Badascian, Pasciai, Querman, and so on.

And when a little trouble has been taken to ascertain the true form and force of Polo's spelling
of Oriental names and technical expressions, it will be found that they are in the main as
accurate as Italian lips and orthography will admit, and not justly liable either to those
disparaging epithets[4] or to those exegetical distortions which have been too often applied
to them. Thus, for example, Cocacin, Ghel or Ghelan, Tonocain, Cobinan, Ondanique, Barguerlac,
Argon, Sensin, Quescican, Toscaol, Bularguci, Zardandan, Anin, Caugigu, Coloman, Gauenispola,
Mutfili, Avarian, Choiach, are not, it will be seen, the ignorant blunderings which the interpretations
affixed by some commentators would imply them to be, but are, on the contrary, all but perfectly
accurate utterances of the names and words intended.

The -tchéou (of French writers), -choo, -chow, or -chau[5] of English writers, which so frequently
forms the terminal part in the names of Chinese cities, is almost invariably rendered by Polo
as -giu. This has frequently in the MSS., and constantly in the printed editions, been converted
into -gui, and thence into -guy. This is on the whole the most constant canon of Polo's geographical
orthography, and holds in Caagiu (Ho-chau), Singiu (Sining-chau), Cui-giu (Kwei-chau), Sin-giu
(T'sining-chau), Pi-giu (Pei-chau), Coigangiu (Hwaingan-chau), Si-giu (Si-chau), Ti-giu (Tai-chau),
Tin-giu (Tung-chau), Yan-giu (Yang-chau), Sin-giu (Chin-chau), Cai-giu (Kwa-chau), Chinghi-giu
(Chang-chau), Su-giu (Su-chau), Vu-giu (Wu-chau), and perhaps a few more. In one or two instances
only (as Sinda-ciu, Caiciu) he has -ciu instead of -giu.

The chapter-headings I have generally taken from Pauthier's Text, but they are no essential
part of the original work, and they have been slightly modified or enlarged where it seemed
desirable.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Behold! I see the Haven nigh at Hand,
    To which I meane my wearie Course to bend;
    Vere the maine Shete, and beare up with the Land,
    The which afore is fayrly to be kend,
    And seemeth safe from Storms that may offend.
       *       *       *       *       *
    There eke my Feeble Barke a while may stay,
  Till mery Wynd and Weather call her thence away."
      --THE FAERIE QUEENE, I. xii. 1.

[1] This "eclectic formation of the English text," as I have called it for
    brevity in the marginal rubric, has been disapproved by Mr. de
    Khanikoff, a critic worthy of high respect. But I must repeat that the
    duties of a translator, and of the Editor of an original text, at
    least where the various recensions bear so peculiar a relation to each
    other as in this case, are essentially different; and that, on
    reconsidering the matter after an interval of four or five years, the
    plan which I have adopted, whatever be the faults of execution, still
    commends itself to me as the only appropriate one.

    Let Mr. de Khanikoff consider what course he would adopt if he were
    about to publish Marco Polo in Russian. I feel certain that with
    whatever theory he might set out, before his task should be concluded
    he would have arrived practically at the same system that I have
    adopted.

[2] In Polo's diction C frequently represents H., e.g., Cormos = Hormuz;
    Camadi probably = Hamadi; Caagiu probably = Hochau; Cacianfu =
    Hochangfu, and so on. This is perhaps attributable to Rusticiano's
    Tuscan ear. A true Pisan will absolutely contort his features in the
    intensity of his efforts to aspirate sufficiently the letter C.
    Filippo Villani, speaking of the famous Aguto (Sir J. Hawkwood), says
    his name in English was Kauchouvole. (Murat. Script. xiv. 746.)

[3] In the Venetian dialect ch and j are often sounded as in English,
    not as in Italian. Some traces of such pronunciation I think there
    are, as in Coja, Carajan, and in the Chinese name Vanchu
    (occurring only in Ramusio, supra, p. 99). But the scribe of the
    original work being a Tuscan, the spelling is in the main Tuscan. The
    sound of the Qu is, however, French, as in Quescican, Quinsai,
    except perhaps in the case of Quenianfu, for a reason given in vol.
    ii. p. 29.

[4] For example, that enthusiastic student of mediaeval Geography, Joachim
    Lelewel, speaks of Polo's "gibberish" (le baragouinage du Venitien)
    with special reference to such names as Zayton and Kinsay, whilst
    we now know that these names were in universal use by all foreigners
    in China, and no more deserve to be called gibberish than
    Bocca-Tigris, Leghorn, Ratisbon, or Buda.

[5] I am quite sensible of the diffidence with which any outsider should
    touch any question of Chinese language or orthography. A Chinese
    scholar and missionary (Mr. Moule) objects to my spelling chau,
    whilst he, I see, uses chow. I imagine we mean the same sound,
    according to the spelling which I try to use throughout the book. Dr.
    C. Douglas, another missionary scholar, writes chau.

THE BOOK OF MARCO POLO.

PROLOGUE.

Great Princes, Emperors, and Kings, Dukes and Marquises, Counts, Knights, and Burgesses! and
People of all degrees who desire to get knowledge of the various races of mankind and of the
diversities of the sundry regions of the World, take this Book and cause it to be read to you.
For ye shall find therein all kinds of wonderful things, and the divers histories of the Great
Hermenia, and of Persia, and of the Land of the Tartars, and of India, and of many another
country of which our Book doth speak, particularly and in regular succession, according to
the description of Messer Marco Polo, a wise and noble citizen of Venice, as he saw them with
his own eyes. Some things indeed there be therein which he beheld not; but these he heard from
men of credit and veracity. And we shall set down things seen as seen, and things heard as
heard only, so that no jot of falsehood may mar the truth of our Book, and that all who shall
read it or hear it read may put full faith in the truth of all its contents.

For let me tell you that since our Lord God did mould with his hands our first Father Adam,
even until this day, never hath there been Christian, or Pagan, or Tartar, or Indian, or any
man of any nation, who in his own person hath had so much knowledge and experience of the divers
parts of the World and its Wonders as hath had this Messer Marco! And for that reason he bethought
himself that it would be a very great pity did he not cause to be put in writing all the great
marvels that he had seen, or on sure information heard of, so that other people who had not
these advantages might, by his Book, get such knowledge. And I may tell you that in acquiring
this knowledge he spent in those various parts of the World good six-and-twenty years. Now,
being thereafter an inmate of the Prison at Genoa, he caused Messer Rusticiano of Pisa, who
was in the said Prison likewise, to reduce the whole to writing; and this befell in the year
1298 from the birth of Jesus.

CHAPTER I.

HOW THE TWO BROTHERS POLO SET FORTH FROM CONSTANTINOPLE TO TRAVERSE THE WORLD.

It came to pass in the year of Christ 1260, when Baldwin was reigning at Constantinople,[NOTE
1] that Messer Nicolas Polo, the father of my lord Mark, and Messer Maffeo Polo, the brother
of Messer Nicolas, were at the said city of CONSTANTINOPLE, whither they had gone from Venice
with their merchants' wares. Now these two Brethren, men singularly noble, wise, and provident,
took counsel together to cross the GREATER SEA on a venture of trade; so they laid in a store
of jewels and set forth from Constantinople, crossing the Sea to SOLDAIA.[NOTE 2]

NOTE 1.--Baldwin II (de Courtenay), the last Latin Emperor of Constantinople, reigned from
1237 to 1261, when he was expelled by Michael Palaeologus.

The date in the text is, as we see, that of the Brothers' voyage across the Black Sea. It stands
1250 in all the chief texts. But the figure is certainly wrong. We shall see that, when the
Brothers return to Venice in 1269, they find Mark, who, according to Ramusio's version, was
born after their departure, a lad of fifteen. Hence, if we rely on Ramusio, they must have
left Venice about 1253-54. And we shall see also that they reached the Volga in 1261. Hence
their start from Constantinople may well have occurred in 1260, and this I have adopted as
the most probable correction. Where they spent the interval between 1254 (if they really left
Venice so early) and 1260, nowhere appears. But as their brother, Mark the Elder, in his Will
styles himself "whilom of Constantinople," their headquarters were probably there.

NOTE 2.--In the Middle Ages the Euxine was frequently called Mare Magnum or Majus. Thus Chaucer:--

                  "In the GRETE SEE,
  At many a noble Armee hadde he be."

The term Black Sea (Mare Maurum v. Nigrum) was, however, in use, and Abulfeda says it was general
in his day. That name has been alleged to appear as early as the 10th century, in the form
[Greek: Skoteinae], "The Dark Sea"; but an examination of the passage cited, from Constantine
Porphyrogenitus, shows that it refers rather to the Baltic, whilst that author elsewhere calls
the Euxine simply Pontus. (Reinaud's Abulf. I. 38, Const. Porph. De Adm. Imp. c. 31, c. 42.)

+ Sodaya, Soldaia, or Soldachia, called by Orientals Súdak, stands on the S.E. coast of the
Crimea, west of Kaffa. It had belonged to the Greek Empire, and had a considerable Greek population.
After the Frank conquest of 1204 it apparently fell to Trebizond. It was taken by the Mongols
in 1223 for the first time, and a second time in 1239, and during that century was the great
port of intercourse with what is now Russia. At an uncertain date, but about the middle of
the century, the Venetians established a factory there, which in 1287 became the seat of a
consul. In 1323 we find Pope John XXII. complaining to Uzbek Khan of Sarai that the Christians
had been ejected from Soldaia and their churches turned into mosques. Ibn Batuta, who alludes
to this strife, counts Sudak as one of the four great ports of the World. The Genoese got Soldaia
in 1365 and built strong defences, still to be seen. Kaffa, with a good anchorage, in the 14th
century, and later on Tana, took the place of Soldaia as chief emporium in South Russia. Some
of the Arab Geographers call the Sea of Azov the Sea of Sudak.

The Elder Marco Polo in his Will (1280) bequeaths to the Franciscan Friars of the place a house
of his in Soldachia, reserving life occupation to his own son and daughter, then residing in
it. Probably this establishment already existed when the two Brothers went thither. (Elie de
Laprimaudare, passim; Gold. Horde, 87; Mosheim, App. 148; Ibn Bat. I. 28, II. 414; Cathay,
231-33; Heyd, II. passim.)

CHAPTER II.

HOW THE TWO BROTHERS WENT ON BEYOND SOLDAIA.

Having stayed a while at Soldaia, they considered the matter, and thought it well to extend
their journey further. So they set forth from Soldaia and travelled till they came to the Court
of a certain Tartar Prince, BARCA KAAN by name, whose residences were at SARA[NOTE 1] and at
BOLGARA [and who was esteemed one of the most liberal and courteous Princes that ever was among
the Tartars.][NOTE 2] This Barca was delighted at the arrival of the Two Brothers, and treated
them with great honour; so they presented to him the whole of the jewels that they had brought
with them. The Prince was highly pleased with these, and accepted the offering most graciously,
causing the Brothers to receive at least twice its value.

After they had spent a twelvemonth at the court of this Prince there broke out a great war
between Barca and Aláu, the Lord of the Tartars of the Levant, and great hosts were mustered
on either side.[NOTE 3]

But in the end Barca, the Lord of the Tartars of the Ponent, was defeated, though on both sides
there was great slaughter. And by reason of this war no one could travel without peril of being
taken; thus it was at least on the road by which the Brothers had come, though there was no
obstacle to their travelling forward. So the Brothers, finding they could not retrace their
steps, determined to go forward. Quitting Bolgara, therefore, they proceeded to a city called
UCACA, which was at the extremity of the kingdom of the Lord of the Ponent;[NOTE 4] and thence
departing again, and passing the great River Tigris, they travelled across a Desert which extended
for seventeen days' journey, and wherein they found neither town nor village, falling in only
with the tents of Tartars occupied with their cattle at pasture.[NOTE 5]

NOTE 1.-- + Barka Khan, third son of Jújí, the first-born of Chinghiz, ruled the Ulús of Juji
and Empire of Kipchak (Southern Russia) from 1257 to 1265. He was the first Musulman sovereign
of his race. His chief residence was at SARAI (Sara of the text), a city founded by his brother
and predecessor Bátú, on the banks of the Akhtuba branch of the Volga. In the next century
Ibn Batuta describes Sarai as a very handsome and populous city, so large that it made half
a day's journey to ride through it. The inhabitants were Mongols, Aás (or Alans), Kipchaks,
Circassians, Russians, and Greeks, besides the foreign Moslem merchants, who had a walled quarter.
Another Mahomedan traveller of the same century says the city itself was not walled, but, "The
Khan's Palace was a great edifice surmounted by a golden crescent weighing two kantars of Egypt,
and encompassed by a wall flanked with towers," etc. Pope John XXII., on the 26th February
1322, defined the limits of the new Bishopric of Kaffa, which were Sarai to the east and Varna
to the west.

Sarai became the seat of both a Latin and a Russian metropolitan, and of more than one Franciscan
convent. It was destroyed by Timur on his second invasion of Kipchak (1395-6), and extinguished
by the Russians a century later. It is the scene of Chaucer's half-told tale of Cambuscan:--

  "At Sarra, in the Londe of Tartarie,
  There dwelt a King that werried Russie."

["Mesalek-al-absar (285, 287), says Sarai, meaning 'the Palace,' was founded by Bereké, brother
of Batu. It stood in a salty plain, and was without walls, though the palace had walls flanked
by towers. The town was large, had markets, madrasas--and baths. It is usually identified with
Selitrennoyé Gorodok, about 70 miles above Astrakhan." (Rockhill, Rubruck, p. 260, note.)--H. C.]

Several sites exhibiting extensive ruins near the banks of the Akhtuba have been identified
with Sarai; two in particular. One of these is not far from the great elbow of the Volga at
Tzaritzyn: the other much lower down, at Selitrennoyé Gorodok or Saltpetre-Town, not far above
Astrakhan.

The upper site exhibits by far the most extensive traces of former population, and is declared
unhesitatingly to be the sole site of Sarai by M. Gregorieff, who carried on excavations among
the remains for four years, though with what precise results I have not been able to learn.
The most dense part of the remains, consisting of mounds and earth-works, traces of walls,
buildings, cisterns, dams, and innumerable canals, extends for about 7-1/2 miles in the vicinity
of the town of Tzarev, but a tract of 66 miles in length and 300 miles in circuit, commencing
from near the head of the Akhtuba, presents remains of like character, though of less density,
marking the ground occupied by the villages which encircled the capital. About 2-1/2 miles
to the N.W. of Tzarev a vast mass of such remains, surrounded by the traces of a brick rampart,
points out the presumable position of the Imperial Palace.

M. Gregorieff appears to admit no alternative. Yet it seems certain that the indications of
Abulfeda, Pegolotti, and others, with regard to the position of the capital in the early part
of the 14th century, are not consistent with a site so far from the Caspian. Moreover, F. H.
Müller states that the site near Tzarev is known to the Tartars as the "Sarai of Janibek Khan"
(1341-1357). Now it is worthy of note that in the coinage of Janibek we repeatedly find as
the place of mintage, New Sarai. Arabsháh in his History of Timur states that 63 years had
elapsed from the foundation to the destruction of Sarai. But it must have been at least 140
years since the foundation of Batu's city. Is it not possible, therefore, that both the sites
which we have mentioned were successively occupied by the Mongol capital; that the original
Sarai of Batu was at Selitrennoyé Gorodok, and that the New Sarai of Janibek was established
by him, or by his father Uzbeg in his latter days, on the upper Akhtuba? Pegolotti having carried
his merchant from Tana (Azov) to Gittarchan (Astrakhan), takes him one day by river to Sara,
and from Sara to Saracanco, also by river, eight days more. (Cathay, p. 287.) In the work quoted
I have taken Saracanco for Saraichik, on the Yaik. But it was possibly the Upper or New Sarai
on the Akhtuba. Ibn Batuta, marching on the frozen river, reached Sarai in three days from
Astrakhan. This could not have been at Tzarev, 200 miles off.

In corroboration (quantum valeat) of my suggestion that there must have been two Sarais near
the Volga, Professor Bruun of Odessa points to the fact that Fra Mauro's map presents two cities
of Sarai on the Akhtuba; only the Sarai of Janibeg is with him no longer New Sarai, but Great
Sarai.

The use of the latter name suggests the possibility that in the Saracanco of Pegolotti the
latter half of the name may be the Mongol Kúnk "Great." (See Pavet de Courteille, p. 439.)

Professor Bruun also draws attention to the impossibility of Ibn Batuta's travelling from Astrakhan
to Tzarev in three days, an argument which had already occurred to me and been inserted above.

[The Empire of Kipchak founded after the Mongol Conquest of 1224, included also parts of Siberia
and Khwarizm; it survived nominally until 1502.--H. C.]

(Four Years of Archaeological Researches among the Ruins of Sarai [in Russian] by M. Gregorieff
[who appears to have also published a pamphlet specially on the site, but this has not been
available]; Historisch- geographische Darstellung des Stromsystems der Wolga, von Ferd. Heinr.
Müller, Berlin, 1839, 568-577; Ibn. Bat. II. 447; Not. et Extraits, XIII. i. 286; Pallas, Voyages;
Cathay, 231, etc.; Erdmann, Numi Asiatici, pp. 362 seqq.; Arabs. I. p. 381.)

NOTE 2.--BOLGHAR, our author's Bolgara, was the capital of the region sometimes called Great
Bulgaria, by Abulfeda Inner Bulgaria, and stood a few miles from the left bank of the Volga,
in latitude about 54° 54', and 90 miles below Kazan. The old Arab writers regarded it as nearly
the limit of the habitable world, and told wonders of the cold, the brief summer nights, and
the fossil ivory that was found in its vicinity. This was exported, and with peltry, wax, honey,
hazel-nuts, and Russia leather, formed the staple articles of trade. The last item derived
from Bolghar the name which it still bears all over Asia. (See Bk. II. ch. xvi., and Note.)
Bolghar seems to have been the northern limit of Arab travel, and was visited by the curious
(by Ibn Batuta among others) in order to witness the phenomena of the short summer night, as
tourists now visit Hammerfest to witness its entire absence.

Russian chroniclers speak of an earlier capital of the Bulgarian kingdom, Brakhimof, near the
mouth of the Kama, destroyed by Andrew, Grand Duke of Rostof and Susdal, about 1160; and this
may have been the city referred to in the earlier Arabic accounts. The fullest of these is
by Ibn Fozlán, who accompanied an embassy from the Court of Baghdad to Bolghar, in A.D. 921.
The King and people had about this time been converted to Islam, having previously, as it would
seem, professed Christianity. Nevertheless, a Mahomedan writer of the 14th century says the
people had then long renounced Islam for the worship of the Cross. (Not. et Extr. XIII. i. 270.)

Bolghar was first captured by the Mongols in 1225. It seems to have perished early in the 15th
century, after which Kazan practically took its place. Its position is still marked by a village
called Bolgari, where ruins of Mahomedan character remain, and where coins and inscriptions
have been found. Coins of the Kings of Bolghar, struck in the 10th century, have been described
by Fraehn, as well as coins of the Mongol period struck at Bolghar. Its latest known coin is
of A.H. 818 (A.D. 1415-16). A history of Bolghar was written in the first half of the 12th
century by Yakub Ibn Noman, Kadhi of the city, but this is not known to be extant.

Fraehn shows ground for believing the people to have been a mixture of Fins, Slavs, and Turks.
Nicephorus Gregoras supposes that they took their name from the great river on which they dwelt
([Greek: Boúlga]).

["The ruins [of Bolghar]," says Bretschneider, in his Mediaeval Researches, published in 1888,
vol. ii. p. 82, "still exist, and have been the subject of learned investigation by several
Russian scholars. These remains are found on the spot where now the village Uspenskoye, called
also Bolgarskoye (Bolgari), stands, in the district of Spask, province of Kazan. This village
is about 4 English miles distant from the Volga, east of it, and 83 miles from Kazan." Part
of the Bulgars removed to the Balkans; others remained in their native country on the shores
of the Azov Sea, and were subjugated by the Khazars. At the beginning of the 9th century, they
marched northwards to the Volga and the Kama, and established the kingdom of Great Bulgaria.
Their chief city, Bolghar, was on the bank of the Volga, but the river runs now to the west;
as the Kama also underwent a change in its course, it is possible that formerly Bolghar was
built at the junction of the two rivers. (Cf. Reclus, Europe russe, p. 761.) The Bulgars were
converted to Islam in 922. Their country was first invaded by the Mongols under Subutai in
1223; this General conquered it in 1236, the capital was destroyed the following year, and
the country annexed to the kingdom of Kipchak. Bolghar was again destroyed in 1391 by Tamerlan.
In 1438, Ulugh Mohammed, cousin of Toka Timur, younger son of Juji, transformed this country
into the khanate of Kazan, which survived till 1552. It had probably been the capital of the
Golden Horde before Sarai.

With reference to the early Christianity of the Bulgarians, to which Yule refers in his note,
the Laurentian Chronicle (A.D. 1229), quoted by Shpilevsky, adduces evidence to show that in
the Great City, i.e. Bulgar, there were Russian Christians and a Christian cemetery, and the
death of a Bulgarian Christian martyr is related in the same chronicle as well as in the Nikon,
Tver, and Tatischef annals in which his name is given. (Cf. Shpilevsky, Anc. towns and other
Bulgaro-Tartar monuments, Kazan, 1877, p. 158 seq.; Rockhill's Rubruck, Hakl. Soc. p. 121,
note.) --H. C.]

The severe and lasting winter is spoken of by Ibn Folzán and other old writers in terms that
seem to point to a modern mitigation of climate. It is remarkable, too, that Ibn Fozlán speaks
of the aurora as of very frequent occurrence, which is not now the case in that latitude. We
may suspect this frequency to have been connected with the greater cold indicated, and perhaps
with a different position of the magnetic pole. Ibn Fozlán's account of the aurora is very
striking:--"Shortly before sunset the horizon became all very ruddy, and at the same time I
heard sounds in the upper air, with a dull rustling. I looked up and beheld sweeping over me
a fire-red cloud, from which these sounds issued, and in it movements, as it were, of men and
horses; the men grasping bows, lances, and swords. This I saw, or thought I saw. Then there
appeared a white cloud of like aspect; in it also I beheld armed horsemen, and these rushed
against the former as one squadron of horse charges another. We were so terrified at this that
we turned with humble prayer to the Almighty, whereupon the natives about us wondered and broke
into loud laughter. We, however, continued to gaze, seeing how one cloud charged the other,
remained confused with it a while, and then sundered again. These movements lasted deep into
the night, and then all vanished."

(Fraehn, Ueber die Wolga Bulgaren, Petersb. 1832; Gold. Horde, 8, 9, 423-424; Not. et Extr.
II. 541; Ibn Bat. II. 398; Büschings Mag. V. 492; Erdmann, Numi Asiat. I. 315-318, 333-334,
520-535; Niceph. Gregoras, II. 2, 2.)

NOTE 3.--ALAU is Polo's representation of the name of Hulákú, brother of the Great Kaans Mangu
and Kublai and founder of the Mongol dynasty in Persia. In the Mongol pronunciation guttural
and palatal consonants are apt to be elided, hence this spelling. The same name is written
by Pope Alexander IV., in addressing the Khan, Olao, by Pachymeres and Gregoras [Greek: Chalaù]
and [Greek: Chalaon], by Hayton Haolon, by Ibn Batuta Huláún, as well as in a letter of Hulaku's
own, as given by Makrizi.

The war in question is related in Rashíduddín's history, and by Polo himself towards the end
of the work. It began in the summer of 1262, and ended about eight months later. Hence the
Polos must have reached Barka's Court in 1261.

Marco always applies to the Mongol Khans of Persia the title of "Lords of the East" (Levant),
and to the Khans of Kipchak that of "Lords of the West" (Ponent). We use the term Levant still
with a similar specific application, and in another form Anatolia. I think it best to preserve
the terms Levant and Ponent when used in this way.

[Robert Parke in his translation out of Spanish of Mendoza, The Historie of the great and mightie
kingdome of China ... London, printed by I. Wolfe for Edward White, 1588, uses the word Ponent:
"You shall understande that this mightie kingdome is the Orientalest part of all Asia, and
his next neighbour towards the Ponent is the kingdome of Quachinchina ... (p. 2)."--H. C.]

NOTE 4.--UCACA or UKEK was a town on the right bank of the Volga, nearly equidistant between
Sarai and Bolghar, and about six miles south of the modern Saratov, where a village called
Uwek still exists. Ukek is not mentioned before the Mongol domination, and is supposed to have
been of Mongol foundation, as the name Ukek is said in Mongol to signify a dam of hurdles.
The city is mentioned by Abulfeda as marking the extremity of "the empire of the Barka Tartars,"
and Ibn Batuta speaks of it as "one day distant from the hills of the Russians." Polo therefore
means that it was the frontier of the Ponent towards Russia. Ukek was the site of a Franciscan
convent in the 14th century; it is mentioned several times in the campaigns of Timur, and was
destroyed by his army. It is not mentioned under the form Ukek after this, but appears as Uwek
and Uwesh in Russian documents of the 16th century. Perhaps this was always the Slavonic form,
for it already is written Uguech (= Uwek) in Wadding's 14th century catalogue of convents.
Anthony Jenkinson, in Hakluyt, gives an observation of its latitude, as Oweke (51° 40'), and
Christopher Burrough, in the same collection, gives a description of it as Oueak, and the latitude
as 51° 30' (some 7' too much). In his time (1579) there were the remains of a "very faire stone
castle" and city, with old tombs exhibiting sculptures and inscriptions. All these have long
vanished. Burrough was told by the Russians that the town "was swallowed into the earth by
the justice of God, for the wickednesse of the people that inhabited the same." Lepechin in
1769 found nothing remaining but part of an earthen rampart and some underground vaults of
larger bricks, which the people dug out for use. He speaks of coins and other relics as frequent,
and the like have been found more recently. Coins with Mongol-Arab inscriptions, struck at
Ukek by Tuktugai Khan in 1306, have been described by Fraehn and Erdmann.

(Fraehn, Ueber die ehemalige Mong. Stadt Ukek, etc., Petersb. 1835; Gold. Horde; Ibn Bat. II.
414; Abulfeda, in Büsching, V. 365; Ann. Minorum, sub anno 1400; Pétis de la Croix, II. 355,
383, 388; Hakluyt, ed. 1809, I. 375 and 472; Lepechin, Tagebuch der Reise, etc., I. 235-237;
Rockhill, Rubruck, 120-121, note 2.)

NOTE 5.--The great River Tigeri or Tigris is the Volga, as Pauthier rightly shows. It receives
the same name from the Monk Pascal of Vittoria in 1338. (Cathay, p. 234.) Perhaps this arose
out of some legend that the Tigris was a reappearance of the same river. The ecclesiastical
historian, Nicephorus Callistus, appears to imply that the Tigris coming from Paradise flows
under the Caspian to emerge in Kurdistan. (See IX. 19.)

The "17 days" applies to one stretch of desert. The whole journey from Ukek Bokhara would take
some 60 days at least. Ibn Batuta is 58 days from Sarai to Bokhara, and of the last section
he says, "we entered the desert which extends between Khwarizm and Bokhara, and which has an
extent of 18 days' journey." (III.

After they had passed the desert, they arrived at a very great and noble city called BOCARA,
the territory of which belonged to a king whose name was Barac, and is also called Bocara.
The city is the best in all Persia.[NOTE 1] And when they had got thither, they found they
could neither proceed further forward nor yet turn back again; wherefore they abode in that
city of Bocara for three years. And whilst they were sojourning in that city, there came from
Alau, Lord of the Levant, Envoys on their way to the Court of the Great Kaan, the Lord of all
the Tartars in the world. And when the Envoys beheld the Two Brothers they were amazed, for
they had never before seen Latins in that part of the world. And they said to the Brothers:
"Gentlemen, if ye will take our counsel, ye will find great honour and profit shall come thereof."
So they replied that they would be right glad to learn how. "In truth," said the Envoys, "the
Great Kaan hath never seen any Latins, and he hath a great desire so to do. Wherefore, if ye
will keep us company to his Court, ye may depend upon it that he will be right glad to see
you, and will treat you with great honour and liberality; whilst in our company ye shall travel
with perfect security, and need fear to be molested by nobody."[NOTE 2]

NOTE 1.--Hayton also calls Bokhara a city of Persia, and I see Vámbéry says that, up till the
conquest by Chinghiz, Bokhara, Samarkand, Balkh, etc., were considered to belong to Persia.
(Travels, p. 377.) The first Mongolian governor of Bokhara was Buka Bosha.

King Barac is Borrak Khan, great-grandson of Chagatai, and sovereign of the Ulús of Chagatai,
from 1264 to 1270. The Polos, no doubt, reached Bokhara before 1264, but Borrak must have been
sovereign some time before they left it.

NOTE 2.--The language of the envoys seems rather to imply that they were the Great Kaan's own
people returning from the Court of Hulaku. And Rashid mentions that Sartak, the Kaan's ambassador
to Hulaku, returned from Persia in the year that the latter prince died. It may have been his
party that the Venetians joined, for the year almost certainly was the same, viz. 1265. If
so, another of the party was Bayan, afterwards the greatest of Kublai's captains, and much
celebrated in the sequel of this book. (See Erdmann's Temudschin, p. 214.)

Marsden justly notes that Marco habitually speaks of Latins, never of Franks. Yet I suspect
his own mental expression was Farangi. And on their journey they saw many marvels of divers
and sundry kinds, but of these we shall say nothing at present, because Messer Mark, who has
likewise seen them all, will give you a full account of them in the Book which follows.

CHAPTER V.

HOW THE TWO BROTHERS ARRIVED AT THE COURT OF THE GREAT KAAN.

When the Two Brothers got to the Great Kaan, he received them with great honour and hospitality,
and showed much pleasure at their visit, asking them a great number of questions. First, he
asked about the emperors, how they maintained their dignity, and administered justice in their
dominions; and how they went forth to battle, and so forth. And then he asked the like questions
about the kings and princes and other potentates.

And then he inquired about the Pope and the Church, and about all that is done at Rome, and
all the customs of the Latins. And the Two Brothers told him the truth in all its particulars,
with order and good sense, like sensible men as they were; and this they were able to do as
they knew the Tartar language well.[NOTE 1]

NOTE 1.--The word generally used for Pope in the original is Apostoille (Apostolicus), the
usual French expression of that age.

It is remarkable that for the most part the text edited by Pauthier has the correcter Oriental
form Tatar, instead of the usual Tartar. Tattar is the word used by Yvo of Narbonne, in the
curious letter given by Matthew Paris under 1243.

We are often told that Tartar is a vulgar European error. It is in any case a very old one;
nor does it seem to be of European origin, but rather Armenian;[1] though the suggestion of
Tartarus may have given it readier currency in Europe. Russian writers, or rather writers who
have been in Russia, sometimes try to force on us a specific limitation of the word Tartar
to a certain class of Oriental Turkish race, to whom the Russians appropriate the name. But
there is no just ground for this. Tátár is used by Oriental writers of Polo's age exactly as
Tartar was then, and is still, used in Western Europe, as a generic title for the Turanian
hosts who followed Chinghiz and his successors. But I believe the name in this sense was unknown
to Western Asia before the time of Chinghiz. And General Cunningham must overlook this when
he connects the Tátaríya coins, mentioned by Arab geographers of the 9th century, with "the
Scythic or Tátár princes who ruled in Kabul" in the beginning of our era. Tartars on the Indian
frontier in those centuries are surely to be classed with the Frenchmen whom Brennus led to
Rome, or the Scotchmen who fought against Agricola.

[1] See J. As. sér. V. tom. xi. p. 203.

CHAPTER VII.

HOW THE GREAT KAAN SENT THE TWO BROTHERS AS HIS ENVOYS TO THE POPE.

When that Prince, whose name was CUBLAY KAAN, Lord of the Tartars all over the earth, and of
all the kingdoms and provinces and territories of that vast quarter of the world, had heard
all that the Brothers had to tell him about the ways of the Latins, he was greatly pleased,
and he took it into his head that he would send them on an Embassy to the Pope. So he urgently
desired them to undertake this mission along with one of his Barons; and they replied that
they would gladly execute all his commands as those of their Sovereign Lord. Then the Prince
sent to summon to his presence one of his Barons whose name was COGATAL, and desired him to
get ready, for it was proposed to send him to the Pope along with the Two Brothers. The Baron
replied that he would execute the Lord's commands to the best of his ability.

After this the Prince caused letters from himself to the Pope to be indited in the Tartar tongue,[NOTE
1] and committed them to the Two Brothers and to that Baron of his own, and charged them with
what he wished them to say to the Pope. Now the contents of the letter were to this purport:
He begged that the Pope would send as many as an hundred persons of our Christian faith; intelligent
men, acquainted with the Seven Arts,[NOTE 2] well qualified to enter into controversy, and
able clearly to prove by force of argument to idolaters and other kinds of folk, that the Law
of Christ was best, and that all other religions were false and naught; and that if they would
prove this, he and all under him would become Christians and the Church's liegemen. Finally
he charged his Envoys to bring back to him some Oil of the Lamp which burns on the Sepulchre
of our Lord at Jerusalem.[NOTE 3]

NOTE 1.-- + The appearance of the Great Kaan's letter may be illustrated by two letters on
so-called Corean paper preserved in the French archives; one from Arghún Khan of Persia (1289),
brought by Buscarel, and the other from his son Oljaitu (May, 1305), to Philip the Fair. These
are both in the Mongol language, and according to Abel Rémusat and other authorities, in the
Uighúr character, the parent of the present Mongol writing. Facsimiles of the letters are given
in Rémusat's paper on intercourse with Mongol Princes, in Mém. de l' Acad. des Inscript. vols.
vii. and viii., reproductions in J. B. Chabot's Hist. de Mar Jabalaha III., Paris, 1895, and
preferably in Prince Roland Bonaparte's beautiful Documents Mongols, Pl. XIV., and we give
samples of the two in vol. ii.[1]

NOTE 2.--"The Seven Arts," from a date reaching back nearly to classical times, and down through
the Middle Ages, expressed the whole circle of a liberal education, and it is to these Seven
Arts that the degrees in arts were understood to apply. They were divided into the Trivium
of Rhetoric, Logic, and Grammar, and the Quadrivium of Arithmetic, Astronomy, Music, and Geometry.
The 38th epistle of Seneca was in many MSS. (according to Lipsius) entitled "L. Annaei Senecae
Liber de Septem Artibus liberalibus." I do not find, however, that Seneca there mentions categorically
more than five, viz., Grammar, Geometry, Music, Astronomy, and Arithmetic. In the 5th century
we find the Seven Arts to form the successive subjects of the last seven books of the work
of Martianus Capella, much used in the schools during the early Middle Ages. The Seven Arts
will be found enumerated in the verses of Tzetzes (Chil. XI. 525), and allusions to them in
the mediaeval romances are endless. Thus, in one of the "Gestes d'Alexandre," a chapter is
headed "Comment Aristotle aprent à Alixandre les Sept Arts." In the tale of the Seven Wise
Masters, Diocletian selects that number of tutors for his son, each to instruct him in one
of the Seven Arts. In the romance of Erec and Eneide we have a dress on which the fairies had
portrayed the Seven Arts (Franc. Michel, Recherches, etc. II. 82); in the Roman de Mahommet
the young impostor is master of all the seven. There is one mediaeval poem called the Marriage
of the Seven Arts, and another called the Battle of the Seven Arts. (See also Dante, Convito,
Trat. II. c. 14; Not. et Ex. V., 491 seqq.)

NOTE 3.--The Chinghizide Princes were eminently liberal--or indifferent-- in religion; and
even after they became Mahomedan, which, however, the Eastern branch never did, they were rarely
and only by brief fits persecutors. Hence there was scarcely one of the non-Mahomedan Khans
of whose conversion to Christianity there were not stories spread. The first rumours of Chinghiz
in the West were as of a Christian conqueror; tales may be found of the Christianity of Chagatai,
Hulaku, Abaka, Arghun, Baidu, Ghazan, Sartak, Kuyuk, Mangu, Kublai, and one or two of the latter's
successors in China, all probably false, with one or two doubtful exceptions.

[1] See plates with ch. xvii. of Bk. IV. See also the Uighúr character in
    the second Païza, Bk. II. ch. vii.

When the Prince had charged them with all his commission, he caused to be given them a Tablet
of Gold, on which was inscribed that the three Ambassadors should be supplied with everything
needful in all the countries through which they should pass--with horses, with escorts, and,
in short, with whatever they should require. And when they had made all needful preparations,
the three Ambassadors took their leave of the Emperor and set out.

When they had travelled I know not how many days, the Tartar Baron fell sick, so that he could
not ride, and being very ill, and unable to proceed further, he halted at a certain city. So
the Two Brothers judged it best that they should leave him behind and proceed to carry out
their commission; and, as he was well content that they should do so, they continued their
journey. And I can assure you, that whithersoever they went they were honourably provided with
whatever they stood in need of, or chose to command. And this was owing to that Tablet of Authority
from the Lord which they carried with them.[NOTE 1]

So they travelled on and on until they arrived at Layas in Hermenia, a journey which occupied
them, I assure you, for three years.[NOTE 2] It took them so long because they could not always
proceed, being stopped sometimes by snow, or by heavy rains falling, or by great torrents which
they found in an impassable state.

NOTE 1.--On these Tablets, see a note under Bk. II. ch. vii.

NOTE 2.--AYAS, called also Ayacio, Aiazzo, Giazza, Glaza, La Jazza, and Layas, occupied the
site of ancient Aegae, and was the chief port of Cilician Armenia, on the Gulf of Scanderoon.
Aegae had been in the 5th century a place of trade with the West, and the seat of a bishopric,
as we learn from the romantic but incomplete story of Mary, the noble slave-girl, told by Gibbon
(ch. 33). As Ayas it became in the latter part of the 13th century one of the chief places
for the shipment of Asiatic wares arriving through Tabriz, and was much frequented by the vessels
of the Italian Republics. The Venetians had a Bailo resident there.

Ayas is the Leyes of Chaucer's Knight,--

  ("At LEYES was he and at Satalie")--

and the Layas of Froissart. (Bk. III. ch. xxii.) The Gulf of Layas is described in the xix.
Canto of Ariosto, where Mafisa and Astolfo find on its shores a country of barbarous Amazons:--

  "Fatto è 'l porto a sembranza d' una luna," etc.

Marino Sanuto says of it: "Laiacio has a haven, and a shoal in front of it that we might rather
call a reef, and to this shoal the hawsers of vessels are moored whilst the anchors are laid
out towards the land." (II. IV. ch. xxvi.)

The present Ayas is a wretched village of some 15 huts, occupied by about 600 Turkmans, and
standing inside the ruined walls of the castle. This castle, which is still in good condition,
was built by the Armenian kings, and restored by Sultan Suleiman; it was constructed from the
remains of the ancient city; fragments of old columns are embedded in its walls of cut stone.
It formerly communicated by a causeway with an advanced work on an island before the harbour.
The ruins of the city occupy a large space. (Langlois, V. en Cilicie, pp. 429-31; see also
Beaufort's Karamania, near the end.) A plan of Ayas will be found at the beginning of Bk. I.
--H. Y. and H. C.

CHAPTER IX.

HOW THE TWO BROTHERS CAME TO THE CITY OF ACRE.

[Ilustration: ACRE AS IT WAS WHEN LOST (A.D. 1291). FROM THE PLAN GIVEN BY MARINO SANUTO]

They departed from Layas and came to ACRE, arriving there in the month of April, in the year
of Christ 1269, and then they learned that the Pope was dead. And when they found that the
Pope was dead (his name was Pope * *), [NOTE 1] they went to a certain wise Churchman who was
Legate for the whole kingdom of Egypt, and a man of great authority, by name THEOBALD OF PIACENZA,
and told him of the mission on which they were come. When the Legate heard their story, he
was greatly surprised, and deemed the thing to be of great honour and advantage for the whole
of Christendom. So his answer to the two Ambassador Brothers was this: "Gentlemen, ye see that
the Pope is dead; wherefore ye must needs have patience until a new Pope be made, and then
shall ye be able to execute your charge." Seeing well enough that what the Legate said was
just, they observed: "But while the Pope is a-making, we may as well go to Venice and visit
our households." So they departed from Acre and went to Negropont, and from Negropont they
continued their voyage to Venice.[NOTE 2] On their arrival there, Messer Nicolas found that
his wife was dead, and that she had left behind her a son of fifteen years of age, whose name
was MARCO; and 'tis of him that this Book tells.[NOTE 3] The Two Brothers abode at Venice a
couple of years, tarrying until a Pope should be made.

NOTE 1.--The deceased Pope's name is omitted both in the Geog. Text and in Pauthier's, clearly
because neither Rusticiano nor Polo remembered it. It is supplied correctly in the Crusca Italian
as Clement, and in Ramusio as Clement IV.

It is not clear that Theobald, though generally adopted, is the ecclesiastic's proper name.
It appears in different MSS. as Teald (G. T.), Ceabo for Teabo (Pauthier), Odoaldo (Crusca),
and in the Riccardian as Thebaldus de Vice-comitibus de Placentia, which corresponds to Ramusio's
version. Most of the ecclesiastical chroniclers call him Tedaldus, some Thealdus. Tedaldo is
a real name, occurring in Boccaccio. (Day iii. Novel 7.)

NOTE 2.--After the expulsion of the Venetians from Constantinople, Negropont was the centre
of their influence in Romania. On the final return of the travellers they again take Negropont
on their way. [It was one of the ports on the route from Venice to Constantinople, Tana, Trebizond.--H.
C.]

NOTE 3.--The edition of the Soc. de Géographie makes Mark's age twelve, but I have verified
from inspection the fact noticed by Pauthier that the manuscript has distinctly xv. like all
the other old texts. In Ramusio it is nineteen, but this is doubtless an arbitrary correction
to suit the mistaken date (1250) assigned for the departure of the father from Constantinople.

There is nothing in the old French texts to justify the usual statement that Marco was born
after the departure of his father from Venice. All that the G. T. says is: "Meser Nicolau treuve
que sa fame estoit morte, et les remès un filz de xv. anz que avoit à nom Marc," and Pauthier's
text is to the same effect. Ramusio, indeed, has: "M. Nicolò trovò, che sua moglie era morta,
la quale nella sua partita haveva partorito un figliuolo," and the other versions that are
based on Pipino's seem all to have like statements.

When the Two Brothers had tarried as long as I have told you, and saw that never a Pope was
made, they said that their return to the Great Kaan must be put off no longer. So they set
out from Venice, taking Mark along with them, and went straight back to Acre, where they found
the Legate of whom we have spoken. They had a good deal of discourse with him concerning the
matter, and asked his permission to go to JERUSALEM to get some Oil from the Lamp on the Sepulchre,
to carry with them to the Great Kaan, as he had enjoined.[NOTE 1] The Legate giving them leave,
they went from Acre to Jerusalem and got some of the Oil, and then returned to Acre, and went
to the Legate and said to him: "As we see no sign of a Pope's being made, we desire to return
to the Great Kaan; for we have already tarried long, and there has been more than enough delay."
To which the Legate replied: "Since 'tis your wish to go back, I am well content." Wherefore
he caused letters to be written for delivery to the Great Kaan, bearing testimony that the
Two Brothers had come in all good faith to accomplish his charge, but that as there was no
Pope they had been unable to do so.

NOTE 1.--In a Pilgrimage of date apparently earlier than this, the Pilgrim says of the Sepulchre:
"The Lamp which had been placed by His head (when He lay there) still burns on the same spot
day and night. We took a blessing from it (i.e. apparently took some of the oil as a beneficent
memorial), and replaced it." (Itinerarium Antonini Placentini in Bollandists, May, vol. ii. p. xx.)

["Five great oil lamps," says Daniel, the Russian Hégoumène, 1106-1107 (Itinéraires russes
en Orient, trad. pour la Soc. de l'Orient Latin, par Mme. B. de Khitrowo, Geneva, 1889, p.
13), "burning continually night and day, are hung in the Sepulchre of Our Lord."--H. C.]

CHAPTER XI.

HOW THE TWO BROTHERS SET OUT FROM ACRE, AND MARK ALONG WITH THEM.

When the Two Brothers had received the Legate's letters, they set forth from Acre to return
to the Grand Kaan, and got as far as Layas. But shortly after their arrival there they had
news that the Legate aforesaid was chosen Pope, taking the name of Pope Gregory of Piacenza;
news which the Two Brothers were very glad indeed to hear. And presently there reached them
at Layas a message from the Legate, now the Pope, desiring them, on the part of the Apostolic
See, not to proceed further on their journey, but to return to him incontinently. And what
shall I tell you? The King of Hermenia caused a galley to be got ready for the Two Ambassador
Brothers, and despatched them to the Pope at Acre.[NOTE 1]

NOTE 1.--The death of Pope Clement IV. occurred on St Andrew's Day (29th November), 1268; the
election of Tedaldo or Tebaldo of Piacenza, a member of the Visconti family, and Archdeacon
of Liège, did not take place till 1st September, 1271, owing to the factions among the cardinals.
And it is said that some of them, anxious only to get away, voted for Theobald in full belief
that he was dead. The conclave, in its inability to agree, had named a committee of six with
full powers which the same day elected Theobald, on the recommendation of the Cardinal Bishop
of Portus (John de Toleto, said, in spite of his name, to have been an Englishman). This facetious
dignitary had suggested that the roof should be taken off the Palace at Viterbo where they
sat, to allow the divine influences to descend more freely on their counsels (quia nequeunt
ad nos per tot tecta ingredi). According to some, these doggerel verses, current on the occasion,
were extemporised by Cardinal John in the pious exuberance of his glee:--

  "Papatûs munus tulit Archidiaconus unus
  Quem Patrem Patrum fecit discordia Fratrum."

The Archdeacon, a man of great weight of character, in consequence of differences with his
Bishop (of Liège), who was a disorderly liver, had gone to the Holy Land, and during his stay
there he contracted great intimacy with Prince Edward of England (Edward I.). Some authors,
e.g. John Villani (VIII. 39), say that he was Legate in Syria; others, as Rainaldus, deny this;
but Polo's statement, and the authority which the Archdeacon took on himself in writing to
the Kaan, seem to show that he had some such position.

He took the name of Gregory X., and before his departure from Acre, preached a moving sermon
on the text, "If I forget thee, O Jerusalem," etc. Prince Edward fitted him out for his voyage.

Gregory reigned barely four years, dying at Arezzo 10th January, 1276. His character stood
high to the last, and some of the Northern Martyrologies enrolled him among the saints, but
there has never been canonisation by Rome. The people of Arezzo used to celebrate his anniversary
with torch-light gatherings at his tomb, and plenty of miracles were alleged to have occurred
there. The tomb still stands in the Duomo at Arezzo, a handsome work by Margaritone, an artist
in all branches, who was the Pope's contemporary. There is an engraving of it in Gonnelli,
Mon. Sepolc. di Toscana.

(Fra Pipino in Muratori, IX. 700; Rainaldi Annal. III. 252 seqq.; Wadding, sub. an. 1217: Bollandists,
10th January; Palatii, Gesta Pontif. Roman. vol. iii., and Fasti Cardinalium, I. 463, etc.)

CHAPTER XII.

HOW THE TWO BROTHERS PRESENTED THEMSELVES BEFORE THE NEW POPE.

And when they had been thus honourably conducted to Acre they proceeded to the presence of
the Pope, and paid their respects to him with humble reverence. He received them with great
honour and satisfaction, and gave them his blessing. He then appointed two Friars of the Order
of Preachers to accompany them to the Great Kaan, and to do whatever might be required of them.
These were unquestionably as learned Churchmen as were to be found in the Province at that
day--one being called Friar Nicolas of Vicenza, and the other Friar William of Tripoli.[NOTE
1] He delivered to them also proper credentials, and letters in reply to the Great Kaan's messages
[and gave them authority to ordain priests and bishops, and to bestow every kind of absolution,
as if given by himself in proper person; sending by them also many fine vessels of crystal
as presents to the Great Kaan].[NOTE 2] So when they had got all that was needful, they took
leave of the Pope, receiving his benediction; and the four set out together from Acre, and
went to Layas, accompanied always by Messer Nicolas's son Marco.

Now, about the time that they reached Layas, Bendocquedar, the Soldan of Babylon, invaded Hermenia
with a great host of Saracens, and ravaged the country, so that our Envoys ran a great peril
of being taken or slain. [NOTE 3] And when the Preaching Friars saw this they were greatly
frightened, and said that go they never would. So they made over to Messer Nicolas and Messer
Maffeo all their credentials and documents, and took their leave, departing in company with
the Master of the Temple.[NOTE 4]

NOTE 1.--Friar William, of Tripoli, of the Dominican convent at Acre, appears to have served
there as early as 1250. [He was born circa 1220, at Tripoli, in Syria, whence his name.--H.
C.] He is known as the author of a book, De Statu Saracenorum post Ludovici Regis de Syriâ
reditum, dedicated to Theoldus, Archdeacon of Liège (i.e. Pope Gregory). Of this some extracts
are printed in Duchesne's Hist. Francorum Scriptores. There are two MSS. of it, with different
titles, in the Paris Library, and a French version in that of Berne. A MS. in Cambridge Univ.
Library, which contains among other things a copy of Pipino's Polo, has also the work of Friar
William:--"Willelmus Tripolitanus, Aconensis Conventus, de Egressu Machometi et Saracenorum,
atque progressu eorumdem, de Statu Saracenorum," etc. It is imperfect; it is addressed THEOBALDO
Ecclesiarcho digno Sancte Terre Peregrino Sancto. And from a cursory inspection I imagine that
the Tract appended to one of the Polo MSS. in the British Museum (Addl. MSS., No. 19,952) is
the same work or part of it. To the same author is ascribed a tract called Clades Damiatae.
(Duchesne, V. 432; D'Avezac in Rec. de Voyages, IV. 406; Quétif, Script. Ord. Praed. I. 264-5;
Catal. of MSS. in Camb. Univ. Library, I. 22.)

NOTE 2.--I presume that the powers, stated in this passage from Ramusio to have been conferred
on the Friars, are exaggerated. In letters of authority granted in like cases by Pope Gregory's
successors, Nicolas III. (in 1278) and Boniface VIII. (in 1299), the missionary friars to remote
regions are empowered to absolve from excommunication and release from vows, to settle matrimonial
questions, to found churches and appoint idoneos rectores, to authorise Oriental clergy who
should publicly submit to the Apostolic See to enjoy the privilegium clericale, whilst in the
absence of bishops those among the missionaries who were priests might consecrate cemeteries,
altars, palls, etc., admit to the Order of Acolytes, but nothing beyond. (See Mosheim, Hist.
Tartar. Eccles. App. Nos. 23 and 42.)

NOTE 3.--The statement here about Bundúkdár's invasion of Cilician Armenia is a difficulty.
He had invaded it in 1266, and his second devastating invasion, during which he burnt both
Layas and Sis, the king's residence, took place in 1275, a point on which Marino Sanuto is
at one with the Oriental Historians. Now we know from Rainaldus that Pope Gregory left Acre
in November or December, 1271, and the text appears to imply that our travellers left Acre
before him. The utmost corroboration that I can find lies in the following facts stated by
Makrizi:--

On the 13th Safar, A.H. 670 (20th September 1271), Bundúkdár arrived unexpectedly at Damascus,
and after a brief raid against the Ismaelians he returned to that city. In the middle of Rabi
I. (about 20-25 October) the Tartars made an incursion in northern Syria, and the troops of
Aleppo retired towards Hamah. There was great alarm at Damascus; the Sultan sent orders to
Cairo for reinforcements, and these arrived at Damascus on the 9th November. The Sultan then
advanced on Aleppo, sending corps likewise towards Marash (which was within the Armenian frontier)
and Harran. At the latter place the Tartars were attacked and those in the town slaughtered;
the rest retreated. The Sultan was back at Damascus, and off on a different expedition, by
7th December. Hence, if the travellers arrived at Ayas towards the latter part of November
they would probably find alarm existing at the advance of Bundúkdár, though matters did not
turn out so serious as they imply.

"Babylon," of which Bundúkdár is here styled Sultan, means Cairo, commonly so styled (Bambellonia
d'Egitto) in that age. Babylon of Egypt is mentioned by Diodorus quoting Ctesias, by Strabo,
and by Ptolemy; it was the station of a Roman Legion in the days of Augustus, and still survives
in the name of Babul, close to old Cairo.

Malik Dáhir Ruknuddín Bíbars Bundúkdári, a native of Kipchak, was originally sold at Damascus
for 800 dirhems (about 18l.), and returned by his purchaser because of a blemish. He was then
bought by the Amir Aláuddín Aidekín Bundúkdár ("The Arblasteer") whose surname he afterwards
adopted. He became the fourth of the Mameluke Sultans, and reigned from 1259 to 1276. The two
great objects of his life were the repression of the Tartars and the expulsion of the Christians
from Syria, so that his reign was one of constant war and enormous activity. William of Tripoli,
in the work above mentioned, says: "Bondogar, as a soldier, was not inferior to Julius Caesar,
nor in malignity to Nero." He admits, however, that the Sultan was sober, chaste, just to his
own people, and even kind to his Christian subjects; whilst Makrizi calls him one of the best
princes that ever reigned over Musulmans. Yet if we take Bibars as painted by this admiring
historian and by other Arabic documents, the second of Friar William's comparisons is justified,
for he seems almost a devil in malignity as well as in activity. More than once he played tennis
at Damascus and Cairo within the same week. A strange sample of the man is the letter which
he wrote to Boemond, Prince of Antioch and Tripoli, to announce to him the capture of the former
city. After an ironically polite address to Boemond as having by the loss of his great city
had his title changed from Princeship (Al-Brensíyah) to Countship (Al-Komasíyah), and describing
his own devastations round Tripoli, he comes to the attack of Antioch: "We carried the place,
sword in hand, at the 4th hour of Saturday, the 4th day of Ramadhán,... Hadst thou but seen
thy Knights trodden under the hoofs of the horses! thy palaces invaded by plunderers and ransacked
for booty! thy treasures weighed out by the hundredweight! thy ladies (Dámátaka, 'tes DAMES')
bought and sold with thine own gear, at four for a dinár! hadst thou but seen thy churches
demolished, thy crosses sawn in sunder, thy garbled Gospels hawked about before the sun, the
tombs of thy nobles cast to the ground; thy foe the Moslem treading thy Holy of the Holies;
the monk, the priest, the deacon slaughtered on the Altar; the rich given up to misery; princes
of royal blood reduced to slavery! Couldst thou but have seen the flames devouring thy halls;
thy dead cast into the fires temporal with the fires eternal hard at hand; the churches of
Paul and of Cosmas rocking and going down--, then wouldst thou have said, 'Would God that I
were dust!' ... As not a man hath escaped to tell thee the tale, I TELL IT THEE!"

A little later, when a mission went to treat with Boemond, Bibars himself accompanied it in
disguise, to have a look at the defences of Tripoli. In drawing out the terms, the Envoys styled
Boemond Count, not Prince, as in the letter just quoted. He lost patience at their persistence,
and made a movement which alarmed them. Bibars nudged the Envoy Mohiuddin (who tells the story)
with his foot to give up the point, and the treaty was made. On their way back the Sultan laughed
heartily at their narrow escape, "sending to the devil all the counts and princes on the face
of the earth."

(Quatremère's Makrizi, II. 92-101, and 190 seqq.; J. As. sér. I. tom. xi. p. 89; D'Ohsson,
III. 459-474; Marino Sanuto in Bongars, 224-226, etc.)

NOTE 4.--The ruling Master of the Temple was Thomas Berard (1256-1273), but there is little
detail about the Order in the East at this time. They had, however, considerable possessions
and great influence in Cilician Armenia, and how much they were mixed up in its affairs is
shown by a circumstance related by Makrizi. In 1285, when Sultan Mansúr, the successor of Bundúkdár,
was besieging the Castle of Markab, there arrived in Camp the Commander of the Temple (Kamandúr-ul
Dewet) of the Country of Armenia, charged to negotiate on the part of the King of Sis (i.e.
of Lesser Armenia, Leon III. 1268-1289, successor of Hayton I. 1224-1268), and bringing presents
from him and from the Master of the Temple, Berard's successor, William de Beaujeu (1273-1291).
(III.

So the Two Brothers, and Mark along with them, proceeded on their way, and journeying on, summer
and winter, came at length to the Great Kaan, who was then at a certain rich and great city,
called KEMENFU.[NOTE 1] As to what they met with on the road, whether in going or coming, we
shall give no particulars at present, because we are going to tell you all those details in
regular order in the after part of this Book. Their journey back to the Kaan occupied a good
three years and a half, owing to the bad weather and severe cold that they encountered. And
let me tell you in good sooth that when the Great Kaan heard that Messers Nicolo and Maffeo
Polo were on their way back, he sent people a journey of full 40 days to meet them; and on
this journey, as on their former one, they were honourably entertained upon the road, and supplied
with all that they required.

NOTE 1.--The French texts read Clemeinfu, Ramusio Clemenfu. The Pucci MS. guides us to the
correct reading, having Chemensu (Kemensu) for Chemenfu. KAIPINGFU, meaning something like
"City of Peace," and called by Rashiduddin Kaiminfu (whereby we see that Polo as usual adopted
the Persian form of the name), was a city founded in 1256, four years before Kublai's accession,
some distance to the north of the Chinese wall. It became Kublai's favourite summer residence,
and was styled from 1264 Shangtu or "Upper Court." (See infra, Bk. I. ch. lxi.) It was known
to the Mongols, apparently by a combination of the two names, as Shangdu Keibung. It appears
in D'Anville's map under the name of Djao-Naiman Sumé. Dr. Bushell, who visited Shangtu in
1872, makes it 1103 li (367 miles) by road distance viâ Kalgan from Peking. The busy town of
Dolonnúr lies 26 miles S.E. of it, and according to Kiepert's Asia that place is about 180
miles in a direct line north of Peking.

(See Klaproth in J. As. XI.

And what shall I tell you? when the Two Brothers and Mark had arrived at that great city, they
went to the Imperial Palace, and there they found the Sovereign attended by a great company
of Barons. So they bent the knee before him, and paid their respects to him, with all possible
reverence [prostrating themselves on the ground]. Then the Lord bade them stand up, and treated
them with great honour, showing great pleasure at their coming, and asked many questions as
to their welfare, and how they had sped. They replied that they had in verity sped well, seeing
that they found the Kaan well and safe. Then they presented the credentials and letters which
they had received from the Pope, which pleased him right well; and after that they produced
the Oil from the Sepulchre, and at that also he was very glad, for he set great store thereby.
And next, spying Mark, who was then a young gallant,[NOTE 1] he asked who was that in their
company? "Sire," said his father, Messer Nicolo, "'tis my son and your liegeman."[NOTE 2] "Welcome
is he too," quoth the Emperor. And why should I make a long story? There was great rejoicing
at the Court because of their arrival; and they met with attention and honour from everybody.

So there they abode at the Court with the other Barons.

NOTE 1.--"Joenne Bacheler."

NOTE 2.--"Sire, il est mon filz et vostre homme." The last word in the sense which gives us
the word homage. Thus in the miracle play of Theophilus (13th century), the Devil says to Theophilus:--

                                    "Or joing
            Tes mains, et si devien mes hom.
  Theoph. Vez ci que je vous faz hommage."

So infra (Bk. I. ch. xlvii.) Aung Khan is made to say of Chinghiz: "Il est mon homes et mon
serf." (See also Bk. II. ch. iv. note.) St. Lewis said of the peace he had made with Henry
III.: "Il m'est mout grant honneur en la paix que je foiz au Roy d'Angleterre pour ce qu'il
est mon home, ce que n'estoit pas devant." And Joinville says with regard to the king, "Je
ne voz faire point de serement, car je n'estoie pas son home" (being a vassal of Champagne).
A famous Saturday Reviewer quotes the term applied to a lady: "Eddeva puella homo Stigandi
Archiepiscopi." (Théâtre Français au Moyen Age, p. 145; Joinville, pp. 21, 37; S. R., 6th September,
1873, p. 305.)

CHAPTER XV.

HOW THE EMPEROR SENT MARK ON AN EMBASSY OF HIS. And he was discreet and prudent in every way,
insomuch that the Emperor held him in great esteem.[NOTE 1] And so when he discerned Mark to
have so much sense, and to conduct himself so well and beseemingly, he sent him on an ambassage
of his, to a country which was a good six months' journey distant.[NOTE 2] The young gallant
executed his commission well and with discretion. Mark therefore, as he went and returned,
took great pains to learn about all kinds of different matters in the countries which he visited,
in order to be able to tell about them to the Great Kaan.[NOTE 3]

NOTE 1.--The word Emperor stands here for Seigneur.

What the four characters acquired by Marco were is open to discussion.

The Chronicle of the Mongol Emperors rendered by Gaubil mentions, as characters used in their
Empire, the Uíghúr, the Persian and Arabic, that of the Lamas (Tibetan), that of the Niuché,
introduced by the Kin Dynasty, the Khitán, and the Báshpah character, a syllabic alphabet arranged,
on the basis of the Tibetan and Sanskrit letters chiefly, by a learned chief Lama so-called,
under the orders of Kublai, and established by edict in 1269 as the official character. Coins
bearing this character, and dating from 1308 to 1354, are extant. The forms of the Niuché and
Khitán were devised in imitation of Chinese writing, but are supposed to be syllabic. Of the
Khitán but one inscription was known, and no key. "The Khitan had two national scripts, the
'small characters' (hsiao tzu) and the 'large characters' (ta tzu)." S. W. Bushell, Insc. in
the Juchen and Allied Scripts, Cong. des Orientalistes, Paris, 1897.--Die Sprache und Schrift
der Juchen von Dr. W. Grube, Leipzig, 1896, from a polyglot MS. dictionary, discovered by Dr.
F. Hirth and now kept in the Royal Library, Berlin.--H. Y. and H. C.

Chinghiz and his first successors used the Uíghúr, and sometimes the Chinese character. Of
the Uíghúr character we give a specimen in Bk. IV. It is of Syriac origin, undoubtedly introduced
into Eastern Turkestan by the early Nestorian missions, probably in the 8th or 9th century.
The oldest known example of this character so applied, the Kudatku Bilik, a didactic poem in
Uíghúr (a branch of Oriental Turkish), dating from A.D. 1069, was published by Prof. Vámbéry
in 1870. A new edition of the Kudatku Bilik was published at St. Petersburg, in 1891, by Dr.
W. Radloff. Vámbéry had a pleasing illustration of the origin of the Uíghúr character, when
he received a visit at Pesth from certain Nestorians of Urumia on a begging tour. On being
shown the original MS. of the Kudatku Bilik, they read the character easily, whilst much to
their astonishment they could not understand a word of what was written. This Uíghúr is the
basis of the modern Mongol and Manchu characters. (Cf. E. Bretschneider, Mediaeval Researches,
I. pp. 236, 263.)--H. Y. and H. C.

[At the village of Keuyung Kwan, 40 miles north of Peking, in the sub- prefecture of Ch'ang
Ping, in the Chih-li province, the road from Peking to Kalgan runs beyond the pass of Nankau,
under an archway, a view of which will be found at the end of this volume, on which were engraved,
in 1345, two large inscriptions in six different languages: Sanskrit, Tibetan, Mongol, Báshpah,
Uíghúr, Chinese, and a language unknown till recently. Mr. Wylie's kindness enabled Sir Henry
Yule to present a specimen of this. (A much better facsimile of these inscriptions than Wylie's
having since been published by Prince Roland Bonaparte in his valuable Recueil des Documents
de l'Époque Mongole, this latter is, by permission, here reproduced.) The Chinese and Mongol
inscriptions have been translated by M. Ed. Chavannes; the Tibetan by M. Sylvain Lévi (Jour.
Asiat., Sept.-Oct. 1894, pp. 354-373); the Uíghúr, by Prof. W. Radloff (Ibid. Nov.-Dec. 1894,
pp. 546, 550); the Mongol by Prof. G. Huth. (Ibid. Mars-Avril 1895, pp. 351-360.) The sixth
language was supposed by A. Wylie (J. R. A. S. vol. xvii. p. 331, and N.S., vol. v. p. 14)
to be Neuchih, Niuché, Niuchen or Juchen. M. Devéria has shown that the inscription is written
in Si Hia, or the language of Tangut, and gave a facsimile of a stone stèle (pei) in this language
kept in the great Monastery of the Clouds (Ta Yun Ssu) at Liangchau in Kansuh, together with
a translation of the Chinese text, engraved on the reverse side of the slab. M. Devéria thinks
that this writing was borrowed by the Kings of Tangut from the one derived in 920 by the Khitans
from the Chinese. (Stèle Si-Hia de Leang-tcheou ... J. As., 1898; L'éctriture du royaumes de
Si-Hia ou Tangout, par M. Devéria ... Ext. des Mém ... présentés à l'Ac. des. Ins. et B. Let.
1'ère Sér. XI., 1898.) Dr. S. W. Bushell in two papers (Inscriptions in the Juchen and Allied
Scripts, Actes du XI. Congrés Orientalistes, Paris, 1897, 2nd. sect., pp. 11, 35, and the Hsi
Hsia Dynasty of Tangut, their Money and their peculiar Script, J. China Br. R. A. S., xxx.
N.S. No. 2, pp. 142, 160) has also made a special study of the same subject. The Si Hia writing
was adopted by Yuan Ho in 1036, on which occasion he changed the title of his reign to Ta Ch'ing,
i.e. "Great Good Fortune." Unfortunately, both the late M. Devéria and Dr. S. W. Bushell have
deciphered but few of the Si Hia characters.--H. C.]

The orders of the Great Kaan are stated to have been published habitually in six languages,
viz., Mongol, Uíghúr, Arabic, Persian, Tangutan (Si-Hia), and Chinese.--H. Y. and H. C.

Gházán Khan of Persia is said to have understood Mongol, Arabic, Persian, something of Kashmiri,
of Tibetan, of Chinese, and a little of the Frank tongue (probably French).

The annals of the Ming Dynasty, which succeeded the Mongols in China, mention the establishment
in the 11th moon of the 5th year Yong-lo (1407) of the Sse yi kwan, a linguistic office for
diplomatic purposes. The languages to be studied were Niuché, Mongol, Tibetan, Sanskrit, Bokharan
(Persian?) Uíghúr, Burmese, and Siamese. To these were added by the Manchu Dynasty two languages
called Papeh and Pehyih, both dialects of the S.W. frontier. (See infra, Bk. II. ch. lvi.-lvii.,
and notes.) Since 1382, however, official interpreters had to translate Mongol texts; they
were selected among the Academicians, and their service (which was independent of the Sse yi
kwan when this was created) was under the control of the Han-lin-yuen. There may have been
similar institutions under the Yuen, but we have no proof of it. At all events, such an office
could not then be called Sse yi kwan (Sse yi, Barbarians from four sides); Niuché (Niuchen)
was taught in Yong-lo's office, but not Manchu. The Sse yi kwan must not be confounded with
the Hui t'ong kwan, the office for the reception of tributary envoys, to which it was annexed
in 1748. (Gaubil, p. 148; Gold. Horde, 184; Ilchan. II. 147; Lockhart in J. R. G. S. XXXVI.
152; Koeppen, II. 99; G. Devéria, Hist. du Collége des Interprétes de Peking in Mélanges Charles
de Harlez, pp. 94-102; MS. Note of Prof. A. Vissière; The Tangut Script in the Nan-K'ou Pass,
by Dr. S. W. Bushell, China Review, xxiv. II. pp. 65-68.)--H. Y. and H. C.

Pauthier supposes Mark's four acquisitions to have been Báshpah-Mongol, Arabic, Uighúr, and
Chinese. I entirely reject the Chinese. Sir H. Yule adds: "We shall see no reason to believe
that he knew either language or character" [Chinese]. The blunders Polo made in saying that
the name of the city, Suju, signifies in our tongue "Earth" and Kinsay "Heaven" show he did
not know the Chinese characters, but we read in Bk. II. ch. lxviii.: "And Messer Marco Polo
himself, of whom this Book speaks, did govern this city (Yanju) for three full years, by the
order of the Great Kaan." It seems to me [H. C.] hardly possible that Marco could have for
three years been governor of so important and so Chinese a city as Yangchau, in the heart of
the Empire, without acquiring a knowledge of the spoken language.--H. C. The other three languages
seem highly probable. The fourth may have been Tibetan. But it is more likely that he counted
separately two varieties of the same character (e.g. of the Arabic and Persian) as two "lettres
de leur escriptures"--H. Y. and H. C.

NOTE 2.--[Ramusio here adds: "Ad und città, detta Carazan," which, as we shall see, refers
to the Yun-nan Province.]--H. C.

NOTE 3.--From the context no doubt Marco's employments were honourable and confidential; but
Commissioner would perhaps better express them than Ambassador in the modern sense. The word
Ilchi, which was probably in his mind, was applied to a large variety of classes employed on
the commissions of Government, as we may see from a passage of Rashiduddin in D'Ohsson, which
says that "there were always to be found in every city from one to two hundred Ilchis, who
forced the citizens to furnish them with free quarters," etc., III. 404. (See also 485.)

CHAPTER XVI.

HOW MARK RETURNED FROM THE MISSION WHEREON HE HAD BEEN SENT. And so from that time forward
he was always entitled MESSER MARCO POLO, and thus we shall style him henceforth in this Book
of ours, as is but right.

Thereafter Messer Marco abode in the Kaan's employment some seventeen years, continually going
and coming, hither and thither, on the missions that were entrusted to him by the Lord [and
sometimes, with the permission and authority of the Great Kaan, on his own private affairs.]
And, as he knew all the sovereign's ways, like a sensible man he always took much pains to
gather knowledge of anything that would be likely to interest him, and then on his return to
Court he would relate everything in regular order, and thus the Emperor came to hold him in
great love and favour. And for this reason also he would employ him the oftener on the most
weighty and most distant of his missions. These Messer Marco ever carried out with discretion
and success, God be thanked. So the Emperor became ever more partial to him, and treated him
with the greater distinction, and kept him so close to his person that some of the Barons waxed
very envious thereat. And thus it came about that Messer Marco Polo had knowledge of, or had
actually visited, a greater number of the different countries of the World than any other man;
the more that he was always giving his mind to get knowledge, and to spy out and enquire into
everything in order to have matter to relate to the Lord.

When the Two Brothers and Mark had abode with the Lord all that time that you have been told
[having meanwhile acquired great wealth in jewels and gold], they began among themselves to
have thoughts about returning to their own country; and indeed it was time. [For, to say nothing
of the length and infinite perils of the way, when they considered the Kaan's great age, they
doubted whether, in the event of his death before their departure, they would ever be able
to get home.[NOTE 1]] They applied to him several times for leave to go, presenting their request
with great respect, but he had such a partiality for them, and liked so much to have them about
him, that nothing on earth would persuade him to let them go.

Now it came to pass in those days that the Queen BOLGANA, wife of ARGON, Lord of the Levant,
departed this life. And in her Will she had desired that no Lady should take her place, or
succeed her as Argon's wife, except one of her own family [which existed in Cathay]. Argon
therefore despatched three of his Barons, by name respectively OULATAY, APUSCA, and COJA, as
ambassadors to the Great Kaan, attended by a very gallant company, in order to bring back as
his bride a lady of the family of Queen Bolgana, his late wife.[NOTE 2]

When these three Barons had reached the Court of the Great Kaan, they delivered their message,
explaining wherefore they were come. The Kaan received them with all honour and hospitality,
and then sent for a lady whose name was COCACHIN, who was of the family of the deceased Queen
Bolgana. She was a maiden of 17, a very beautiful and charming person, and on her arrival at
Court she was presented to the three Barons as the Lady chosen in compliance with their demand.
They declared that the Lady pleased them well.[NOTE 3]

Meanwhile Messer Marco chanced to return from India, whither he had gone as the Lord's ambassador,
and made his report of all the different things that he had seen in his travels, and of the
sundry seas over which he had voyaged. And the three Barons, having seen that Messer Nicolo,
Messer Maffeo, and Messer Marco were not only Latins, but men of marvellous good sense withal,
took thought among themselves to get the three to travel with them, their intention being to
return to their country by sea, on account of the great fatigue of that long land journey for
a lady. And the ambassadors were the more desirous to have their company, as being aware that
those three had great knowledge and experience of the Indian Sea and the countries by which
they would have to pass, and especially Messer Marco. So they went to the Great Kaan, and begged
as a favour that he would send the three Latins with them, as it was their desire to return
home by sea.

The Lord, having that great regard that I have mentioned for those three Latins, was very loath
to do so [and his countenance showed great dissatisfaction]. But at last he did give them permission
to depart, enjoining them to accompany the three Barons and the Lady.

NOTE 1.--Pegolotti, in his chapters on mercantile ventures to Cathay, refers to the dangers
to which foreigners were always liable on the death of the reigning sovereign. (See Cathay,
p. 292.)

NOTE 2.--Several ladies of the name of BULUGHAN ("Zibellina") have a place in Mongol-Persian
history. The one here indicated, a lady of great beauty and ability, was known as the Great
Khátún (or Lady) Bulughan, and was (according to strange Mongol custom) the wife successively
of Abáka and of his son ARGHUN, the Argon of the text, Mongol sovereign of Persia. She died
on the banks of the Kur in Georgia, 7th April, 1286. She belonged to the Mongol tribe of Bayaut,
and was the daughter of Hulákú's Chief Secretary Gúgah. (Ilchan. I. 374 et passim; Erdmann's
Temudschin, p. 216.)

The names of the Envoys, ULADAI, APUSHKA, and KOJA, are all names met with in Mongol history.
And Rashiduddin speaks of an Apushka of the Mongol Tribe of Urnaut, who on some occasion was
sent as Envoy to the Great Kaan from Persia,--possibly the very person. (See Erdmann, 205.)

Of the Lady Cocachin we shall speak below.

NOTE 3.--Ramusio here has the following passage, genuine no doubt: "So everything being ready,
with a great escort to do honour to the bride of King Argon, the Ambassadors took leave and
set forth. But after travelling eight months by the same way that they had come, they found
the roads closed, in consequence of wars lately broken out among certain Tartar Princes; so
being unable to proceed, they were compelled to return to the Court of the Great Kaan."

And when the Prince saw that the Two Brothers and Messer Marco were ready to set forth, he
called them all three to his presence, and gave them two golden Tablets of Authority, which
should secure them liberty of passage through all his dominions, and by means of which, whithersoever
they should go, all necessaries would be provided for them, and for all their company, and
whatever they might choose to order.[NOTE 1] He charged them also with messages to the King
of France, the King of England,[NOTE 2] the King of Spain, and the other kings of Christendom.
He then caused thirteen ships to be equipt, each of which had four masts, and often spread
twelve sails.[NOTE 3] And I could easily give you all particulars about these, but as it would
be so long an affair I will not enter upon this now, but hereafter, when time and place are
suitable. [Among the said ships were at least four or five that carried crews of 250 or 260 men.]

And when the ships had been equipt, the Three Barons and the Lady, and the Two Brothers and
Messer Marco, took leave of the Great Kaan, and went on board their ships with a great company
of people, and with all necessaries provided for two years by the Emperor. They put forth to
sea, and after sailing for some three months they arrived at a certain Island towards the South,
which is called JAVA,[NOTE 4] and in which there are many wonderful things which we shall tell
you all about by-and-bye. Quitting this Island they continued to navigate the Sea of India
for eighteen months more before they arrived whither they were bound, meeting on their way
also with many marvels, of which we shall tell hereafter.

And when they got thither they found that Argon was dead, so the Lady was delivered to CASAN,
his son.

But I should have told you that it is a fact that, when they embarked, they were in number
some 600 persons, without counting the mariners; but nearly all died by the way, so that only
eight survived.[NOTE 5]

The sovereignty when they arrived was held by KIACATU, so they commended the Lady to him, and
executed all their commission. And when the Two Brothers and Messer Marco had executed their
charge in full, and done all that the Great Kaan had enjoined on them in regard to the Lady,
they took their leave and set out upon their journey.[NOTE 6] And before their departure, Kiacatu
gave them four golden tablets of authority, two of which bore gerfalcons, one bore lions, whilst
the fourth was plain, and having on them inscriptions which directed that the three Ambassadors
should receive honour and service all through the land as if rendered to the Prince in person,
and that horses and all provisions, and everything necessary, should be supplied to them. And
so they found in fact; for throughout the country they received ample and excellent supplies
of everything needful; and many a time indeed, as I may tell you, they were furnished with
200 horsemen, more or less, to escort them on their way in safety. And this was all the more
needful because Kiacatu was not the legitimate Lord, and therefore the people had less scruple
to do mischief than if they had had a lawful prince.[NOTE 7]

Another thing too must be mentioned, which does credit to those three Ambassadors, and shows
for what great personages they were held. The Great Kaan regarded them with such trust and
affection, that he had confided to their charge the Queen Cocachin, as well as the daughter
of the King of Manzi,[NOTE 8] to conduct to Argon the Lord of all the Levant. And those two
great ladies who were thus entrusted to them they watched over and guarded as if they had been
daughters of their own, until they had transferred them to the hands of their Lord; whilst
the ladies, young and fair as they were, looked on each of those three as a father, and obeyed
them accordingly. Indeed, both Casan, who is now the reigning prince, and the Queen Cocachin
his wife, have such a regard for the Envoys that there is nothing they would not do for them.
And when the three Ambassadors took leave of that Lady to return to their own country, she
wept for sorrow at the parting.

What more shall I say? Having left Kiacatu they travelled day by day till they came to Trebizond,
and thence to Constantinople, from Constantinople to Negropont, and from Negropont to Venice.
And this was in the year 1295 of Christ's Incarnation.

And now that I have rehearsed all the Prologue as you have heard, we shall begin the Book of
the Description of the Divers Things that Messer Marco met with in his Travels.

NOTE 1.--On these plates or tablets, which have already been spoken of, a note will be found
further on. (Bk. II. ch. vii.) Plano Carpini says of the Mongol practice in reference to royal
messengers: "Nuncios, quoscunque et quotcunque, et ubicunque transmittit, oportet quod dent
eis sine morâ equos subductitios et expensas" (669).

NOTE 2.--The mention of the King of England appears for the first time in Pauthier's text.
Probably we shall never know if the communication reached him. But we have the record of several
embassies in preceding and subsequent years from the Mongol Khans of Persia to the Kings of
England; all with the view of obtaining co-operation in attack on the Egyptian Sultan. Such
messages came from Ábáka in 1277; from Arghún in 1289 and 1291; from Gházán in 1302; from Oljaitu
in 1307. (See Rémusat in Mém. de l'Acad. VII.)

NOTE 3.--Ramusio has "nine sails." Marsden thinks even this lower number an error of Ramusio's,
as "it is well known that Chinese vessels do not carry any kind of topsail." This is, however,
a mistake, for they do sometimes carry a small topsail of cotton cloth (and formerly, it would
seem from Lecomte, even a topgallant sail at times), though only in quiet weather. And the
evidence as to the number of sails carried by the great Chinese junks of the Middle Ages, which
evidently made a great impression on Western foreigners, is irresistible. Friar Jordanus, who
saw them in Malabar, says: "With a fair wind they carry ten sails;" Ibn Batuta: "One of these
great junks carries from three sails to twelve;" Joseph, the Indian, speaking of those that
traded to India in the 15th century: "They were very great, and had sometimes twelve sails,
with innumerable rowers." (Lecomte, I. 389; Fr. Jordanus, Hak. Soc., p. 55; Ibn Batuta, IV.
91; Novus Orbis, p. 148.) A fuller account of these vessels is given at the beginning of Bk. III.

NOTE 4.--I.e. in this case Sumatra, as will appear hereafter. "It is quite possible for a fleet
of fourteen junks which required to keep together to take three months at the present time
to accomplish a similar voyage. A Chinese trader, who has come annually to Singapore in junks
for many years, tells us that he has had as long a passage as sixty days, although the average
is eighteen or twenty days." (Logan in J. Ind. Archip. II. 609.)

NOTE 5.--Ramusio's version here varies widely, and looks more probable: "From the day that
they embarked until their arrival there died of mariners and others on board 600 persons; and
of the three ambassadors only one survived, whose name was Goza (Coja); but of the ladies and
damsels died but one."

It is worth noting that in the case of an embassy sent to Cathay a few years later by Gházán
Khan, on the return by this same route to Persia, the chief of the two Persian ambassadors,
and the Great Khan's envoy, who was in company, both died by the way. Their voyage, too, seems
to have been nearly as long as Polo's; for they were seven years absent from Persia, and of
these only four in China. (See Wassáf in Elliot, III. 47.)

NOTE 6.--Ramusio's version states that on learning Arghún's death (which they probably did
on landing at Hormuz), they sent word of their arrival to Kiacatu, who directed them to conduct
the lady to Casan, who was then in the region of the Arbre Sec (the Province of Khorasan) guarding
the frontier passes with 60,000 men, and that they did so, and then turned back to Kiacatu
(probably at Tabriz), and stayed at his Court nine months. Even the Geog. Text seems to imply
that they had become personally known to Casan, and I have no doubt that Ramusio's statement
is an authentic expansion of the original narrative by Marco himself, or on his authority.

Arghún Khan died 10th March, 1291. He was succeeded (23rd July) by his brother Kaikhátú (Quiacatu
of Polo), who was put to death 24th March, 1295.

We learn from Hammer's History of the Ilkhans that when Gházán, the son of Arghún (Casan of
Polo), who had the government of the Khorasan frontier, was on his return to his post from
Tabriz, where his uncle Kaikhatu had refused to see him, "he met at Abher the ambassador whom
he had sent to the Great Khan to obtain in marriage a relative of the Great Lady Bulghán. This
envoy brought with him the Lady KÚKÁCHIN (our author's Cocachin), with presents from the Emperor,
and the marriage was celebrated with due festivity." Abher lies a little west of Kazvín.

Hammer is not, I find, here copying from Wassáf, and I have not been able to procure a thorough
search of the work of Rashiduddin, which probably was his authority. As well as the date can
be made out from the History of the Ilkhans, Gházán must have met his bride towards the end
of 1293, or quite the beginning of 1294. Rashiduddin in another place mentions the fair lady
from Cathay; "The ordu (or establishment) of Tukiti Khatun was given to KUKACHI KHATUN, who
had been brought from the Kaan's Court, and who was a kinswoman of the late chief Queen Bulghán.
Kúkáchi, the wife of the Padshah of Islam, Gházán Khan, died in the month of Shaban, 695,"
i.e. in June, 1296, so that the poor girl did not long survive her promotion. (See Hammer's
Ilch. II. 20, and 8, and I. 273; and Quatremère's Rashiduddin, p. 97.) Kukachin was the name
also of the wife of Chingkim, Kublai's favourite son; but she was of the Kungurát tribe. (Deguignes,
IV. 179.)

NOTE 7.--Here Ramusio's text says: "During this journey Messers Nicolo, Maffeo, and Marco heard
the news that the Great Khan had departed this life; and this caused them to give up all hope
of returning to those parts."

NOTE 8.--This Princess of Manzi, or Southern China, is mentioned only in the Geog. Text and
in the Crusca, which is based thereon. I find no notice of her among the wives of Gházán or
otherwise.

On the fall of the capital of the Sung Dynasty--the Kinsay of Polo--in 1276, the Princesses
of that Imperial family were sent to Peking, and were graciously treated by Kublai's favourite
Queen, the Lady Jamui. This young lady was, no doubt, one of those captive princesses who had
been brought up at the Court of Khánbálik. (See De Mailla, IX. 376, and infra Bk.

There are two Hermenias, the Greater and the Less. The Lesser Hermenia is governed by a certain
King, who maintains a just rule in his dominions, but is himself subject to the Tartar.[NOTE
1] The country contains numerous towns and villages,[NOTE 2] and has everything in plenty;
moreover, it is a great country for sport in the chase of all manner of beasts and birds. It
is, however, by no means a healthy region, but grievously the reverse.[NOTE 3] In days of old
the nobles there were valiant men, and did doughty deeds of arms; but nowadays they are poor
creatures, and good at nought, unless it be at boozing; they are great at that. Howbeit, they
have a city upon the sea, which is called LAYAS, at which there is a great trade. For you must
know that all the spicery, and the cloths of silk and gold, and the other valuable wares that
come from the interior, are brought to that city. And the merchants of Venice and Genoa, and
other countries, come thither to sell their goods, and to buy what they lack. And whatsoever
persons would travel to the interior (of the East), merchants or others, they take their way
by this city of Layas.[NOTE 4]

Having now told you about the Lesser Hermenia, we shall next tell you about Turcomania.

NOTE 1.--The Petite Hermenie of the Middle Ages was quite distinct from the Armenia Minor of
the ancient geographers, which name the latter applied to the western portion of Armenia, west
of the Euphrates, and immediately north of Cappadocia.

But when the old Armenian monarchy was broken up (1079-80), Rupen, a kinsman of the Bagratid
Kings, with many of his countrymen, took refuge in the Taurus. His first descendants ruled
as barons; a title adopted apparently from the Crusaders, but still preserved in Armenia. Leon,
the great-great-grandson of Rupen, was consecrated King under the supremacy of the Pope and
the Western Empire in 1198. The kingdom was at its zenith under Hetum or Hayton I., husband
of Leon's daughter Isabel (1224-1269); he was, however, prudent enough to make an early submission
to the Mongols, and remained ever staunch to them, which brought his territory constantly under
the flail of Egypt. It included at one time all Cilicia, with many cities of Syria and the
ancient Armenia Minor, of Isauria and Cappadocia. The male line of Rupen becoming extinct in
1342, the kingdom passed to John de Lusignan, of the royal house of Cyprus, and in 1375 it
was put an end to by the Sultan of Egypt. Leon VI., the ex-king, into whose mouth Froissart
puts some extraordinary geography, had a pension of 1000l. a year granted him by our Richard
II., and died at Paris in 1398.

The chief remaining vestige of this little monarchy is the continued existence of a Catholicos
of part of the Armenian Church at Sis, which was the royal residence. Some Armenian communities
still remain both in hills and plains; and the former, the more independent and industrious,
still speak a corrupt Armenian.

Polo's contemporary, Marino Sanuto, compares the kingdom of the Pope's faithful Armenians to
one between the teeth of four fierce beasts, the Lion Tartar, the Panther Soldan, the Turkish
Wolf, the Corsair Serpent.

(Dulaurier, in J. As. sér. V. tom. xvii.; St. Martin, Arm.; Mar. San. p. 32; Froissart, Bk.
II. ch. xxii. seqq.; Langlois, V. en Cilicie, 1861, p. 19.)

NOTE 2.--"Maintes villes et maint chasteaux" This is a constantly recurring phrase, and I have
generally translated it as here, believing chasteaux (castelli) to be used in the frequent
old Italian sense of a walled village or small walled town, or like the Eastern Kala' applied
in Khorasan "to everything--town, village, or private residence-- surrounded by a wall of earth."
(Ferrier, p. 292; see also A. Conolly, I. p. 211.) Martini, in his Atlas Sinensis, uses "Urbes,
oppida, castella," to indicate the three classes of Chinese administrative cities.

NOTE 3.--"Enferme durement." So Marino Sanuto objects to Lesser Armenia as a place of debarkation
for a crusade "quia terra est infirma" Langlois, speaking of the Cilician plain: "In this region
once so fair, now covered with swamps and brambles, fever decimates a population which is yearly
diminishing, has nothing to oppose to the scourge but incurable apathy, and will end by disappearing
altogether," etc. (Voyage, p. 65.) Cilician Armenia retains its reputation for sport, and is
much frequented by our naval officers for that object. Ayas is noted for the extraordinary
abundance of turtles.

NOTE 4.--The phrase twice used in this passage for the Interior is Fra terre, an Italianism
(Fra terra, or, as it stands in the Geog. Latin, "infra terram Orientis"), which, however,
Murray and Pauthier have read as an allusion to the Euphrates, an error based apparently on
a marginal gloss in the published edition of the Soc. de Géographie. It is true that the province
of Comagene under the Greek Empire got the name of Euphratesia, or in Arabic Furátiýah, but
that was not in question here. The great trade of Ayas was with Tabriz, viâ Sivas, Erzingan,
and Erzrum, as we see in Pegolotti. Elsewhere, too, in Polo we find the phrase fra terre used,
where Euphrates could possibly have no concern, as in relation to India and Oman. (See Bk.
III. chs. xxix. and xxxviii., and notes in each case.)

With regard to the phrase spicery here and elsewhere, it should be noted that the Italian spezerie
included a vast deal more than ginger and other things "hot i' the mouth." In one of Pegolotti's
lists of spezerie we find drugs, dye-stuffs, metals, wax, cotton, etc.

CHAPTER II.

CONCERNING THE PROVINCE OF TURCOMANIA.

In Turcomania there are three classes of people. First, there are the Turcomans; these are
worshippers of Mahommet, a rude people with an uncouth language of their own.[NOTE 1] They
dwell among mountains and downs where they find good pasture, for their occupation is cattle-keeping.
Excellent horses, known as Turquans, are reared in their country, and also very valuable mules.
The other two classes are the Armenians and the Greeks, who live mixt with the former in the
towns and villages, occupying themselves with trade and handicrafts. They weave the finest
and handsomest carpets in the world, and also a great quantity of fine and rich silks of cramoisy
and other colours, and plenty of other stuffs. Their chief cities are CONIA, SAVAST [where
the glorious Messer Saint Blaise suffered martyrdom], and CASARIA, besides many other towns
and bishops' sees, of which we shall not speak at present, for it would be too long a matter.
These people are subject to the Tartar of the Levant as their Suzerain.[NOTE 2] We will now
leave this province, and speak of the Greater Armenia.

NOTE 1.--Ricold of Montecroce, a contemporary of Polo, calls the Turkmans homines bestiales.
In our day Ainsworth notes of a Turkman village: "The dogs were very ferocious;... the people
only a little better." (J. R. G. S. X. 292.) The ill report of the people of this region did
not begin with the Turkmans, for the Emperor Constantine Porphyrog. quotes a Greek proverb
to the disparagement of the three kappas, Cappadocia, Crete, and Cilicia. (In Bandurit I. 6.)

NOTE 2.--In Turcomania Marco perhaps embraces a great part of Asia Minor, but he especially
means the territory of the decaying Seljukian monarchy, usually then called by Asiatics Rúm,
as the Ottoman Empire is now, and the capital of which was Iconium, KUNIYAH, the Conia of the
text, and Coyne of Joinville. Ibn Batuta calls the whole country Turkey (Al-Turkiýah), and
the people Turkmán; exactly likewise does Ricold (Thurchia and Thurchimanni). Hayton's account
of the various classes of inhabitants is quite the same in substance as Polo's. [The Turkmans
emigrated from Turkestan to Asia Minor before the arrival of the Seljukid Turks. "Their villages,"
says Cuinet, Turquie d'Asie, II. p. 767, "are distinguished by the peculiarity of the houses
being built of sun-baked bricks, whereas it is the general habit in the country to build them
of earth or a kind of plaster, called djès"--H. C.] The migratory and pastoral Turkmans still
exist in this region, but the Kurds of like habits have taken their place to a large extent.
The fine carpets and silk fabrics appear to be no longer produced here, any more than the excellent
horses of which Polo speaks, which must have been the remains of the famous old breed of Cappadocia.
[It appears, however (Vital Cuinet's Turquie d'Asie, I. p. 224), that fine carpets are still
manufactured at Koniah, also a kind of striped cotton cloth, called Aladja.--H. C.]

A grant of privileges to the Genoese by Leon II., King of Lesser Armenia, dated 23rd December,
1288, alludes to the export of horses and mules, etc., from Ayas, and specifies the duties
upon them. The horses now of repute in Asia as Turkman come from the east of the Caspian. And
Asia Minor generally, once the mother of so many breeds of high repute, is now poorer in horses
than any province of the Ottoman empire.

(Pereg. Quat. p. 114; I.B. II. 255 seqq.; Hayton, ch. xiii.; Liber Jurium Reip. Januensis,
II. 184; Tchihatcheff, As. Min., 2'de partie, 631.)

[The Seljukian Sultanate of Iconium or Rúm, was founded at the expense of the Byzantines by
Suleiman (1074-1081); the last three sovereigns of the dynasty contemporaneous with Marco Polo
are Ghiath ed-din Kaïkhosru III. (1267-1283), Ghiath ed-din Mas'ud II. (1283-1294), Ala ed-din
Kaïkobad III. (1294-1308), when this kingdom was destroyed by the Mongols of Persia. Privileges
had been granted to Venice by Ghiath ed-din Kaïkhosru I. (+ 1211), and his sons Izz ed-din
Kaikaua (1211-1220), and Ala ed-din Kaïkobad I. (1220-1237); the diploma of 1220 is unfortunately
the only one of the three known to be preserved. (Cf. Heyd, I. p. 302.)--H. C.]

Though the authors quoted above seem to make no distinction between Turks and Turkmans, that
which we still understand does appear to have been made in the 12th century: "That there may
be some distinction, at least in name, between those who made themselves a king, and thus achieved
such glory, and those who still abide in their primitive barbarism and adhere to their old
way of life, the former are nowadays termed Turks, the latter by their old name of Turkomans."
(William of Tyre, i. 7.)

Casaria is KAISARÍYA, the ancient Caesareia of Cappadocia, close to the foot of the great Mount
Argaeus. Savast is the Armenian form (Sevasd) of Sebaste, the modern SIVAS. The three cities,
Iconium, Caesareia, and Sebaste, were metropolitan sees under the Catholicos of Sis.

[The ruins of Sebaste are situated at about 6 miles to the east of modern Sivas, near the village
of Gavraz, on the Kizil Irmak. In the 11th century, the King of Armenia, Senecherim, made his
capital of Sebaste. It belonged after to the Seljukid Turks, and was conquered in 1397 by Bayezid
Ilderim with Tokat, Castambol and Sinope. (Cf. Vital Cuinet.)

One of the oldest churches in Sivas is St. George (Sourp-Kévork), occupied by the Greeks, but
claimed by the Armenians; it is situated near the centre of the town, in what is called the
"Black Earth," the spot where Timur is said to have massacred the garrison. A few steps north
of St. George is the Church of St. Blasius, occupied by the Roman Catholic Armenians. The tomb
of St. Blasius, however, is shown in another part of the town, near the citadel mount, and
the ruins of a very beautiful Seljukian Medresseh. (From a MS. Note by Sir H. Yule. The information
had been supplied by the American Missionaries to General Sir C. Wilson, and forwarded by him
to Sir H. Yule.)

It must be remembered that at the time of the Seljuk Turks, there were four Medressehs at Sivas,
and a university as famous as that of Amassia. Children to the number of 1000, each a bearer
of a copy of the Koran, were crushed to death under the feet of the horses of Timur, and buried
in the "Black Earth"; the garrison of 4000 soldiers were buried alive.

St. Blasius, Bishop of Sebaste, was martyred in 316 by order of Agricola, Governor of Cappadocia
and Lesser Armenia, during the reign of Licinius. His feast is celebrated by the Latin Church
on the 3rd of February, and by the Greek Church on the 11th of February. He is the patron of
the Republic of Ragusa in Dalmatia, and in France of wool-carders.

At the village of Hullukluk, near Sivas, was born in 1676 Mekhitar, founder of the well-known
Armenian Order, which has convents at Venice, Vienna, and Trieste.--H. C.]

CHAPTER III.

DESCRIPTION OF THE GREATER HERMENIA.

This is a great country. It begins at a city called ARZINGA, at which they weave the best buckrams
in the world. It possesses also the best baths from natural springs that are anywhere to be
found.[NOTE 1] The people of the country are Armenians, and are subject to the Tartar. There
are many towns and villages in the country, but the noblest of their cities is Arzinga, which
is the See of an Archbishop, and then ARZIRON and ARZIZI.[NOTE 2]

The country is indeed a passing great one, and in the summer it is frequented by the whole
host of the Tartars of the Levant, because it then furnishes them with such excellent pasture
for their cattle. But in winter the cold is past all bounds, so in that season they quit this
country and go to a warmer region, where they find other good pastures. [At a castle called
PAIPURTH, that you pass in going from Trebizond to Tauris, there is a very good silver mine.[NOTE
3]]

And you must know that it is in this country of Armenia that the Ark of Noah exists on the
top of a certain great mountain [on the summit of which snow is so constant that no one can
ascend;[NOTE 4] for the snow never melts, and is constantly added to by new falls. Below, however,
the snow does melt, and runs down, producing such rich and abundant herbage that in summer
cattle are sent to pasture from a long way round about, and it never fails them. The melting
snow also causes a great amount of mud on the mountain].

The country is bounded on the south by a kingdom called Mosul, the people of which are Jacobite
and Nestorian Christians, of whom I shall have more to tell you presently. On the north it
is bounded by the Land of the Georgians, of whom also I shall speak. On the confines towards
Georgiania there is a fountain from which oil springs in great abundance, insomuch that a hundred
shiploads might be taken from it at one time. This oil is not good to use with food, but 'tis
good to burn, and is also used to anoint camels that have the mange. People come from vast
distances to fetch it, for in all the countries round about they have no other oil.[NOTE 5]

Now, having done with Great Armenia, we will tell you of Georgiania.

NOTE 1.--[Erzinjan, Erzinga, or Eriza, in the vilayet of Erzrum, was rebuilt in 1784, after
having been destroyed by an earthquake. "Arzendjan," says Ibn Batuta, II. p. 294, "is in possession
of well-established markets; there are manufactured fine stuffs, which are called after its
name." It was at Erzinjan that was fought in 1244 the great battle, which placed the Seljuk
Turks under the dependency of the Mongol Khans.--H. C.] I do not find mention of its hot springs
by modern travellers, but Lazari says Armenians assured him of their existence. There are plenty
of others in Polo's route through the country, as at Ilija, close to Erzrum, and at Hássan Kalá.

The Buckrams of Arzinga are mentioned both by Pegolotti (circa 1340) and by Giov. d'Uzzano
(1442). But what were they?

Buckram in the modern sense is a coarse open texture of cotton or hemp, loaded with gum, and
used to stiffen certain articles of dress. But this was certainly not the mediaeval sense.
Nor is it easy to bring the mediaeval uses of the term under a single explanation. Indeed Mr.
Marsh suggests that probably two different words have coalesced. Fr.-Michel says that Bouqueran
was at first applied to a light cotton stuff of the nature of muslin, and afterwards to linen,
but I do not see that he makes out this history of the application. Douet d'Arcq, in his Comptes
de l'Argenterie, etc., explains the word simply in the modern sense, but there seems nothing
in his text to bear this out.

A quotation in Raynouard's Romance Dictionary has "Vestirs de polpra e de bisso que est bocaran,"
where Raynouard renders bisso as lin; a quotation in Ducange also makes Buckram the equivalent
of Bissus; and Michel quotes from an inventory of 1365, "unam culcitram pinctam (qu. punctam?)
albam factam de bisso aliter boquerant."

Mr. Marsh again produces quotations, in which the word is used as a proverbial example of whiteness,
and inclines to think that it was a bleached cloth with a lustrous surface.

It certainly was not necessarily linen. Giovanni Villani, in a passage which is curious in
more ways than one, tells how the citizens of Florence established races for their troops,
and, among other prizes, was one which consisted of a Bucherame di bambagine (of cotton). Polo,
near the end of the Book (Bk. III. ch. xxxiv.), speaking of Abyssinia, says, according to Pauthier's
text: "Et si y fait on moult beaux bouquerans et autres draps de coton." The G. T. is, indeed,
more ambiguous: "Il hi se font maint biaus dras banbacin e bocaran" (cotton and buckram). When,
however, he uses the same expression with reference to the delicate stuffs woven on the coast
of Telingana, there can be no doubt that a cotton texture is meant, and apparently a fine muslin.
(See Bk. III. ch. xviii.) Buckram is generally named as an article of price, chier bouquerant,
rice boquerans, etc, but not always, for Polo in one passage (Bk. II. ch. xlv.) seems to speak
of it as the clothing of the poor people of Eastern Tibet.

Plano Carpini says the tunics of the Tartars were either of buckram (bukeranum), of purpura
(a texture, perhaps velvet), or of baudekin, a cloth of gold (pp. 614-615). When the envoys
of the Old Man of the Mountain tried to bully St. Lewis, one had a case of daggers to be offered
in defiance, another a bouqueran for a winding sheet (Joinville, p. 136.)

In accounts of materials for the use of Anne Boleyn in the time of her prosperity, bokeram
frequently appears for "lyning and taynting" (?) gowns, lining sleeves, cloaks, a bed, etc.,
but it can scarcely have been for mere stiffening, as the colour of the buckram is generally
specified as the same as that of the dress.

A number of passages seem to point to a quilted material. Boccaccio (Day viii. Novel 10) speaks
of a quilt (coltre) of the whitest buckram of Cyprus, and Uzzano enters buckram quilts (coltre
di Bucherame) in a list of Linajuoli, or linen-draperies. Both his handbook and Pegolotti's
state repeatedly that buckrams were sold by the piece or the half-score pieces--never by measure.
In one of Michel's quotations (from Baudouin de Sebourc) we have:

  "Gaufer li fist premiers armer d'un auqueton
  Qui fu de bougherant et plaine de bon coton."

Mr. Hewitt would appear to take the view that Buckram meant a quilted material; for, quoting
from a roll of purchases made for the Court of Edward I., an entry for Ten Buckrams to make
sleeves of, he remarks, "The sleeves appear to have been of pourpointerie," i.e. quilting.
(Ancient Armour, I. 240.)

This signification would embrace a large number of passages in which the term is used, though
certainly not all. It would account for the mode or sale by the piece, and frequent use of
the expression a buckram, for its habitual application to coltre or counterpanes, its use in
the auqueton of Baudouin, and in the jackets of Falstaff's "men in buckram," as well as its
employment in the frocks of the Mongols and Tibetans. The winter chapkan, or long tunic, of
Upper India, a form of dress which, I believe, correctly represents that of the Mongol hosts,
and is probably derived from them, is almost universally of quilted cotton.[1] This signification
would also facilitate the transfer of meaning to the substance now called buckram, for that
is used as a kind of quilting.

The derivation of the word is very uncertain. Reiske says it is Arabic, Abu-Kairám, "Pannus
cum intextis figuris"; Wedgwood, attaching the modern meaning, that it is from It., bucherare,
to pierce full of holes, which might be if bucherare could be used in the sense of puntare,
or the French piquer; Marsh connects it with the bucking of linen; and D'Avezac thinks it was
a stuff that took its name from Bokhara. If the name be local, as so many names of stuffs are,
the French form rather suggests Bulgaria. [Heyd, II. 703, says that Buckram (Bucherame) was
principally manufactured at Erzinjan (Armenia), Mush, and Mardin (Kurdistan), Ispahan (Persia),
and in India, etc. It was shipped to the west at Constantinople, Satalia, Acre, and Famagusta;
the name is derived from Bokhara.--H. C.]

(Della Decima, III. 18, 149, 65, 74, 212, etc.; IV. 4, 5, 6, 212; Reiske's Notes to Const.
Porphyrogen. II.; D'Avezac, p. 524; Vocab. Univ. Ital.; Franc.-Michel, Recherches, etc. II.
29 seqq.; Philobiblon Soc. Miscell. VI.; Marsh's Wedgwood's Etym. Dict. sub voce.)

NOTE 2.--Arziron is ERZRUM, which, even in Tournefort's time, the Franks called Erzeron (III.
126); [it was named Garine, then Theodosiopolis, in honour of Theodosius the Great; the present
name was given by the Seljukid Turks, and it means "Roman Country"; it was taken by Chinghiz
Khan and Timur, but neither kept it long. Odorico (Cathay, I. p. 46), speaking of this city,
says it "is mighty cold." (See also on the low temperature of the place, Tournefort, Voyage
du Levant, II. pp. 258-259.) Arzizi, ARJISH, in the vilayet of Van, was destroyed in the middle
of the 19th century; it was situated on the road from Van to Erzrum. Arjish Kalá was one of
the ancient capitals of the Kingdom of Armenia; it was conquered by Toghrul I., who made it
his residence. (Cf. Vital Cuinet, Turquie d'Asie, II. p. 710).--H. C.]

Arjish is the ancient Arsissa, which gave the Lake Van one of its names. It is now little more
than a decayed castle, with a village inside.

Notices of Kuniyah, Kaisariya, Sivas, Arzan-ar-Rumi, Arzangan, and Arjish, will be found in
Polo's contemporary Abulfeda. (See Büsching, IV. 303-311.)

NOTE 3.--Paipurth, or Baiburt, on the high road between Trebizond and Erzrum, was, according
to Neumann, an Armenian fortress in the first century, and, according to Ritter, the castle
Baiberdon was fortified by Justinian. It stands on a peninsular hill, encircled by the windings
of the R. Charok. [According to Ramusio's version Baiburt was the third relay from Trebizund
to Tauris, and travellers on their way from one of these cities to the other passed under this
stronghold.--H. C.] The Russians, in retiring from it in 1829, blew up the greater part of
the defences. The nearest silver mines of which we find modern notice, are those of Gumish-Khánah
("Silverhouse"), about 35 miles N.W. of Baiburt; they are more correctly mines of lead rich
in silver, and were once largely worked. But the Masálak-al-absár (14th century), besides these,
speaks of two others in the same province, one of which was near Bajert. This Quatremère reasonably
would read Babert or Baiburt. (Not. et Extraits, XIII. i. 337; Texier, Arménie, I. 59.)

NOTE 4.--Josephus alludes to the belief that Noah's Ark still existed, and that pieces of the
pitch were used as amulets. (Ant. I. 3. 6.)

Ararat (16,953 feet) was ascended, first by Prof. Parrot, September 1829; by Spasski Aotonomoff,
August 1834; by Behrens, 1835; by Abich, 1845; by Seymour in 1848; by Khodzko, Khanikoff, and
others, for trigonometrical and other scientific purposes, in August 1850. It is characteristic
of the account from which I take these notes (Longrimoff, in Bull. Soc. Géog. Paris, sér. IV.
tom. i. p. 54), that whilst the writer's countrymen, Spasski and Behrens, were "moved by a
noble curiosity," the Englishman is only admitted to have "gratified a tourist's whim"!

NOTE 5.--Though Mr. Khanikoff points out that springs of naphtha are abundant in the vicinity
of Tiflis, the mention of ship-loads (in Ramusio indeed altered, but probably by the Editor,
to camel-loads), and the vast quantities spoken of, point to the naphtha-wells of the Baku
Peninsula on the Caspian. Ricold speaks of their supplying the whole country as far as Baghdad,
and Barbaro alludes to the practice of anointing camels with the oil. The quantity collected
from the springs about Baku was in 1819 estimated at 241,000 poods (nearly 4000 tons), the
greater part of which went to Persia. (Pereg. Quat. p. 122; Ramusio, II. 109; El. de Laprim.
276; V. du Chev. Gamba, I. 298.)

[The phenomenal rise in the production of the Baku oil-fields between 1890-1900, may be seen
at a glance from the Official Statistics where the total output for 1900 is given as 601,000,000
poods, about 9,500,000 tons. (Cf. Petroleum, No. 42, vol. ii. p. 13.)]

[1] Polo's contemporary, the Indian Poet Amír Khusrú, puts in the mouth
    of his king Kaikobád a contemptuous gibe at the Mongols with their
    cotton-quilted dresses. (Elliot, III. p. 526.)

CHAPTER IV.

OF GEORGIANIA AND THE KINGS THEREOF.

In GEORGIANIA there is a King called David Melic, which is as much as to say "David King";
he is subject to the Tartar.[NOTE 1] In old times all the kings were born with the figure of
an eagle upon the right shoulder. The people are very handsome, capital archers, and most valiant
soldiers. They are Christians of the Greek Rite, and have a fashion of wearing their hair cropped,
like Churchmen.[NOTE 2]

This is the country beyond which Alexander could not pass when he wished to penetrate to the
region of the Ponent, because that the defile was so narrow and perilous, the sea lying on
the one hand, and on the other lofty mountains impassable to horsemen. The strait extends like
this for four leagues, and a handful of people might hold it against all the world. Alexander
caused a very strong tower to be built there, to prevent the people beyond from passing to
attack him, and this got the name of the IRON GATE. This is the place that the Book of Alexander
speaks of, when it tells us how he shut up the Tartars between two mountains; not that they
were really Tartars, however, for there were no Tartars in those days, but they consisted of
a race of people called COMANIANS and many besides.[NOTE 3]

[In this province all the forests are of box-wood.[NOTE 4]] There are numerous towns and villages,
and silk is produced in great abundance. They also weave cloths of gold, and all kinds of very
fine silk stuffs. The country produces the best goshawks in the world [which are called Avigi].[NOTE
5] It has indeed no lack of anything, and the people live by trade and handicrafts. 'Tis a
very mountainous region, and full of strait defiles and of fortresses, insomuch that the Tartars
have never been able to subdue it out and out.

There is in this country a certain Convent of Nuns called St. Leonard's, about which I have
to tell you a very wonderful circumstance. Near the church in question there is a great lake
at the foot of a mountain, and in this lake are found no fish, great or small, throughout the
year till Lent come. On the first day of Lent they find in it the finest fish in the world,
and great store too thereof; and these continue to be found till Easter Eve. After that they
are found no more till Lent come round again; and so 'tis every year. 'Tis really a passing
great miracle![NOTE 6]

That sea whereof I spoke as coming so near the mountains is called the Sea of GHEL or GHELAN,
and extends about 700 miles.[NOTE 7] It is twelve days' journey distant from any other sea,
and into it flows the great River Euphrates and many others, whilst it is surrounded by mountains.
Of late the merchants of Genoa have begun to navigate this sea, carrying ships across and launching
them thereon. It is from the country on this sea also that the silk called Ghellé is brought.[NOTE
8] [The said sea produces quantities of fish, especially sturgeon, at the river-mouths salmon,
and other big kinds of fish.][NOTE 9]

NOTE 1.--Ramusio has: "One part of the said province is subject to the Tartar, and the other
part, owing to its fortresses, remains subject to the King David." We give an illustration
of one of these mediaeval Georgian fortresses, from a curious collection of MS. notices and
drawings of Georgian subjects in the Municipal Library at Palermo, executed by a certain P.
Cristoforo di Castelli of that city, who was a Theatine missionary in Georgia, in the first
half of the 17th century.

The G. T. says the King was always called David. The Georgian Kings of the family of Bagratidae
claimed descent from King David through a prince Shampath, said to have been sent north by
Nebuchadnezzar; a descent which was usually asserted in their public documents. Timur in his
Institutes mentions a suit of armour given him by the King of Georgia as forged by the hand
of the Psalmist King. David is a very frequent name in their royal lists. [The dynasty of the
Bagratidae, which was founded in 786 by Ashod, and lasted until the annexation of Georgia by
Russia on the 18th January, 1801, had nine reigning princes named David. During the second
half of the 12th century the princes were: Dawith (David) IV. Narin (1247-1259), Dawith V.
(1243-1272), Dimitri II. Thawdadebuli (1272-1289), Wakhtang II. (1289-1292), Dawith VI. (1292-1308).--H.
C.] There were two princes of that name, David, who shared Georgia between them under the decision
of the Great Kaan in 1246, and one of them, who survived to 1269, is probably meant here. The
name of David was borne by the last titular King of Georgia, who ceded his rights to Russia
in 1801. It is probable, however, as Marsden has suggested, that the statement about the King
always being called David arose in part out of some confusion with the title of Dadian, which,
according to Chardin (and also to P. di Castelli), was always assumed by the Princes of Mingrelia,
or Colchis as the latter calls it. Chardin refers this title to the Persian Dád, "equity."
To a portrait of "Alexander, King of Iberia," or Georgia Proper, Castelli attaches the following
inscription, giving apparently his official style: "With the sceptre of David, Crowned by Heaven,
First King of the Orient and of the World, King of Israel," adding, "They say that he has on
his shoulder a small mark of a cross, 'Factus est principatus super humerum ejus,' and they
add that he has all his ribs in one piece, and not divided." In another place he notes that
when attending the King in illness his curiosity moved him strongly to ask if these things
were true, but he thought better of it! (Khanikoff; Jour. As. IX. 370, XI. 291, etc.; Tim.
Instit. p. 143; Castelli MSS.)

[A descendant of these Princes was in St. Petersburg about 1870. He wore the Russian uniform,
and bore the title of Prince Bagration-Mukransky.]

NOTE 2.--This fashion of tonsure is mentioned by Barbaro and Chardin. The latter speaks strongly
of the beauty of both sexes, as does Della Valle, and most modern travellers concur.

NOTE 3.--This refers to the Pass of Derbend, apparently the Sarmatic Gates of Ptolemy, and
Claustra Caspiorum of Tacitus, known to the Arab geographers as the "Gate of Gates" (Báb-ul-abwáb),
but which is still called in Turkish Demír-Kápi, or the Iron Gate, and to the ancient Wall
that runs from the Castle of Derbend along the ridges of Caucasus, called in the East Sadd-i-Iskandar,
the Rampart of Alexander. Bayer thinks the wall was probably built originally by one of the
Antiochi, and renewed by the Sassanian Kobad or his son Naoshirwan. It is ascribed to the latter
by Abulfeda; and according to Klaproth's extracts from the Derbend Námah, Naoshirwan completed
the fortress of Derbend in A.D. 542, whilst he and his father together had erected 360 towers
upon the Caucasian Wall which extended to the Gate of the Alans (i.e. the Pass of Dariel).
Mas'údi says that the wall extended for 40 parasangs over the steepest summits and deepest
gorges. The Russians must have gained some knowledge as to the actual existence and extent
of the remains of this great work, but I have not been able to meet with any modern information
of a very precise kind. According to a quotation from Reinegg's Kaukasus (I. 120, a work which
I have not been able to consult), the remains of defences can be traced for many miles, and
are in some places as much as 120 feet high. M. Moynet indeed, in the Tour du Monde (I. 122),
states that he traced the wall to a distance of 27 versts (18 miles) from Derbend, but unfortunately,
instead of describing remains of such high interest from his own observation, he cites a description
written by Alex. Dumas, which he says is quite accurate.

["To the west of Narin-Kaleh, a fortress which from the top of a promontory rises above the
city, the wall, strengthened from distance to distance by large towers, follows the ridge of
the mountains, descends into the ravines, and ascends the slopes to take root on some remote
peak. If the natives were to be believed, this wall, which, however, no longer has any strategetical
importance, had formerly its towers bristling upon the Caucasus chain from one sea to another;
at least, this rampart did protect all the plains at the foot of the eastern Caucasus, since
vestiges were found up to 30 kilometres from Derbend." (Reclus, Asie russe, p. 160.) It has
belonged to Russia since 1813. The first European traveller who mentions it is Benjamin of Tudela.

Bretschneider (II. p. 117) observes: "Yule complains that he was not able to find any modern
information regarding the famous Caucasian Wall which begins at Derbend. I may therefore observe
that interesting details on the subject are found in Legkobytov's Survey of the Russian Dominions
beyond the Caucasus (in Russian), 1836, vol. iv. pp. 158-161, and in Dubois de Montpéreux's
Voyage autour du Caucase, 1840, vol. iv. pp. 291-298, from which I shall give here an abstract."

(He then proceeds to give an abstract, of which the following is a part:)

"The famous Dagh bary (mountain wall) now begins at the village of Djelgan 4 versts south-west
of Derbend, but we know that as late as the beginning of the last century it could be traced
down to the southern gate of the city. This ancient wall then stretches westward to the high
mountains of Tabasseran (it seems the Tabarestan of Mas'údi).... Dubois de Montpéreux enumerates
the following sites of remains of the wall:--In the famous defile of Dariel, north-east of
Kazbek. In the valley of the Assai river, near Wapila, about 35 versts north-east of Dariel.
In the valley of the Kizil river, about 15 versts north-west of Kazbek. Farther west, in the
valley of the Fiag or Pog river, between Lacz and Khilak. From this place farther west about
25 versts, in the valley of the Arredon river, in the district of Valaghir. Finally, the westernmost
section of the Caucasian Wall has been preserved, which was evidently intended to shut up the
maritime defile of Gagry, on the Black Sea."--H. C.]

There is another wall claiming the title of Sadd-i-Iskandar at the S.E. angle of the Caspian.
This has been particularly spoken of by Vámbéry, who followed its traces from S.W. to N.E.
for upwards of 40 miles. (See his Travels in C. Asia, 54 seqq., and Julius Braun in the Ausland,
No. 22, of 1869.)

Yule (II. pp. 537-538) says, "To the same friendly correspondent [Professor Braun] I owe the
following additional particulars on this interesting subject, extracted from Eichwald, Periplus
des Kasp. M. I. 128.

"'At the point on the mountain, at the extremity of the fortress (of Derbend), where the double
wall terminates, there begins a single wall constructed in the same style, only this no longer
runs in a straight line, but accommodates itself to the contour of the hill, turning now to
the north and now to the south. At first it is quite destroyed, and showed the most scanty
vestiges, a few small heaps of stones or traces of towers, but all extending in a general bearing
from east to west.... It is not till you get 4 versts from Derbend, in traversing the mountains,
that you come upon a continuous wall. Thenceforward you can follow it over the successive ridges
... and through several villages chiefly occupied by the Tartar hill-people. The wall ... makes
many windings, and every 3/4 verst it exhibits substantial towers like those of the city-wall,
crested with loop-holes. Some of these are still in tolerably good condition; others have fallen,
and with the wall itself have left but slight vestiges.'

"Eichwald altogether followed it up about 18 versts (12 miles) not venturing to proceed further.
In later days this cannot have been difficult, but my kind correspondent had not been able
to lay his hand on information.

"A letter from Mr. Eugene Schuyler communicates some notes regarding inscriptions that have
been found at and near Derbend, embracing Cufic of A.D. 465, Pehlvi, and even Cuneiform. Alluding
to the fact that the other Iron-gate, south of Shahrsabz, was called also Kalugah, or Kohlugah
he adds: 'I don't know what that means, nor do I know if the Russian Kaluga, south-west of
Moscow, has anything to do with it, but I am told there is a Russian popular song, of which
two lines run:

  '"Ah Derbend, Derbend Kaluga,
  Derbend my little Treasure!"'

"I may observe that I have seen it lately pointed out that Koluga is a Mongol word signifying
a barrier; and I see that Timkowski (I. 288) gives the same explanation of Kalgan, the name
applied by Mongols and Russians to the gate in the Great Wall, called Chang-kia-Kau by the
Chinese, leading to Kiakhta."

The story alluded to by Polo is found in the mediaeval romances of Alexander, and in the Pseudo-Callisthenes
on which they are founded. The hero chases a number of impure cannibal nations within a mountain
barrier, and prays that they may be shut up therein. The mountains draw together within a few
cubits, and Alexander then builds up the gorge and closes it with gates of brass or iron. There
were in all twenty-two nations with their kings, and the names of the nations were Goth, Magoth,
Anugi, Eges, Exenach, etc. Godfrey of Viterbo speaks of them in his rhyming verses:--

    "Finibus Indorum species fuit una virorum;
  Goth erat atque Magoth dictum cognomen eorum
       *       *       *       *       *
  Narrat Esias, Isidorus et Apocalypsis,
  Tangit et in titulis Magna Sibylla suis.
  Patribus ipsorum tumulus fuit venter eorum," etc.

Among the questions that the Jews are said to have put, in order to test Mahommed's prophetic
character, was one series: "Who are Gog and Magog? Where do they dwell? What sort of rampart
did Zu'lkarnain build between them and men?" And in the Koran we find (ch. xviii. The Cavern):
"They will question thee, O Mahommed, regarding Zu'lkarnain. Reply: I will tell you his history"--and
then follows the story of the erection of the Rampart of Yájúj and Májúj. In ch. xxi. again
there is an allusion to their expected issue at the latter day. This last expectation was one
of very old date. Thus the Cosmography of Aethicus, a work long believed (though erroneously)
to have been abridged by St. Jerome, and therefore to be as old at least as the 4th century,
says that the Turks of the race of Gog and Magog, a polluted nation, eating human flesh and
feeding on all abominations, never washing, and never using wine, salt, nor wheat, shall come
forth in the Day of Antichrist from where they lie shut up behind the Caspian Gates, and make
horrid devastation. No wonder that the irruption of the Tartars into Europe, heard of at first
with almost as much astonishment as such an event would produce now, was connected with this
prophetic legend![1] The Emperor Frederic II., writing to Henry III. of England, says of the
Tartars: "'Tis said they are descended from the Ten Tribes who abandoned the Law of Moses,
and worshipped the Golden Calf. They are the people whom Alexander Magnus shut up in the Caspian
Mountains." Paris, 1886, II. pp. 386-389.--H. C.]:

  "Gos et Margos i vienent de la tiere des Turs
  Et. cccc. m. hommes amenerent u plus,
  Il en jurent la mer dont sire est Neptunus
  Et le porte d'infier que garde Cerberus
  Que l'orguel d'Alixandre torneront a reüs
  Por çou les enclot puis es estres desus.
  Dusc' al tans Antecrist n'en istera mais nus."

According to some chroniclers, the Emperor Heraclius had already let loose the Shut-up Nations
to aid him against the Persians, but it brought him no good, for he was beaten in spite of
their aid, and died of grief.

The theory that the Tartars were Gog and Magog led to the Rampart of Alexander being confounded
with the Wall of China (see infra, Bk. I. ch. lix.), or being relegated to the extreme N.E.
of Asia, as we find it in the Carta Catalana.

These legends are referred to by Rabbi Benjamin, Hayton, Rubruquis, Ricold, Matthew Paris,
and many more. Josephus indeed speaks of the Pass which Alexander fortified with gates of steel.
But his saying that the King of Hyrcania was Lord of this Pass points to the Hyrcanian Gates
of Northern Persia, or perhaps to the Wall of Gomushtapah, described by Vámbéry.

Ricold of Montecroce allows two arguments to connect the Tartars with the Jews who were shut
up by Alexander; one that the Tartars hated the very name of Alexander, and could not bear
to hear it; the other, that their manner of writing was very like the Chaldean, meaning apparently
the Syriac (anté, p. 29). But he points out that they had no resemblance to Jews, and no knowledge
of the law.

Edrisi relates how the Khalif Wathek sent one Salem the Dragoman to explore the Rampart of
Gog and Magog. His route lay by Tiflis, the Alan country, and that of the Bashkirds, to the
far north or north-east, and back by Samarkand. But the report of what he saw is pure fable.

In 1857, Dr. Bellew seems to have found the ancient belief in the legend still held by Afghan
gentlemen at Kandahar.

At Gelath in Imeretia there still exists one valve of a large iron gate, traditionally said
to be the relic of a pair brought as a trophy from Derbend by David, King of Georgia, called
the Restorer (1089-1130). M. Brosset, however, has shown it to be the gate of Ganja, carried
off in 1139.

(Bayer in Comment. Petropol. I. 401 seqq.; Pseudo-Callisth. by Müller, p. 138; Gott. Viterb.
in Pistorii Nidani Script. Germ. II. 228; Alexandriade, pp. 310-311; Pereg. IV. p. 118; Acad.
des Insc. Divers Savans, II. 483; Edrisi, II. 416-420, etc.)

NOTE 4.--The box-wood of the Abkhasian forests was so abundant, and formed so important an
article of Genoese trade, as to give the name of Chao de Bux (Cavo di Bussi) to the bay of
Bambor, N.W. of Sukum Kala', where the traffic was carried on. (See Elie de Laprim. 243.) Abulfeda
also speaks of the Forest of Box (Shará' ul-buks) on the shores of the Black Sea, from which
box-wood was exported to all parts of the world; but his indication of the exact locality is
confused. (Reinaud's Abulf. I. 289.)

At the present time "Boxwood abounds on the southern coast of the Caspian, and large quantities
are exported from near Resht to England and Russia. It is sent up the Volga to Tsaritzin, from
thence by rail to the Don, and down that river to the Black Sea, from whence it is shipped
to England." (MS. Note, H. Y.)

[Cf. V. Helm's Cultivated Plants, edited by J. S. Stallybrass, Lond., 1891, The Box Tree, pp.
176-179.--H. C.]

NOTE 5.--Jerome Cardan notices that "the best and biggest goshawks come from Armenia," a term
often including Georgia and Caucasus. The name of the bird is perhaps the same as 'Afçi, "Falco
montanus." (See Casiri, I. 320.) Major St. John tells me that the Terlán, or goshawk, much
used in Persia, is still generally brought from Caucasus. (Cardan, de Rer. Varietate, VII. 35.)

NOTE 6.--A letter of Warren Hastings, written shortly before his death, and after reading Marsden's
Marco Polo, tells how a fish-breeder of Banbury warned him against putting pike into his fish-pond,
saying, "If you should leave them where they are till Shrove Tuesday they will be sure to spawn,
and then you will never get any other fish to breed in it." (Romance of Travel, I. 255.) Edward
Webbe in his Travels (1590, reprinted 1868) tells us that in the "Land of Siria there is a
River having great store of fish like unto Salmon-trouts, but no Jew can catch them, though
either Christian and Turk shall catch them in abundance with great ease." The circumstance
of fish being got only for a limited time in spring is noticed with reference to Lake Van both
by Tavernier and Mr. Brant.

But the exact legend here reported is related (as M. Pauthier has already noticed) by Wilibrand
of Oldenburg of a stream under the Castle of Adamodana, belonging to the Hospitallers, near
Naversa (the ancient Anazarbus), in Cilicia under Taurus. And Khanikoff was told the same story
of a lake in the district of Akhaltziké in Western Georgia, in regard to which he explains
the substance of the phenomenon as a result of the rise of the lake's level by the melting
of the snows, which often coincides with Lent. I may add that Moorcroft was told respecting
a sacred pond near Sir-i-Chashma, on the road from Kabul to Bamian, that the fish in the pond
were not allowed to be touched, but that they were accustomed to desert it for the rivulet
that ran through the valley regularly every year on the day of the vernal equinox, and it was
then lawful to catch them.

Like circumstances would produce the same effect in a variety of lakes, and I have not been
able to identify the convent of St. Leonard's. Indeed Leonard (Sant Lienard, G. T.) seems no
likely name for an Armenian Saint; and the patroness of the convent (as she is of many others
in that country) was perhaps Saint Nina, an eminent personage in the Armenian Church, whose
tomb is still a place of pilgrimage; or possibly St. Helena, for I see that the Russian maps
show a place called Elenovka on the shores of Lake Sevan, N.E. of Erivan. Ramusio's text, moreover,
says that the lake was four days in compass, and this description will apply, I believe, to
none but the lake just named. This is, according to Monteith, 47 miles in length and 21 miles
in breadth, and as far as I can make out he travelled round it in three very long marches.
Convents and churches on its shores are numerous, and a very ancient one occupies an island
on the lake. The lake is noted for its fish, especially magnificent trout.

(Tavern. Bk. III. ch. iii.; J. R. G. S. X. 897; Pereg. Quat. p. 179; Khanikoff, 15; Moorcroft,
II. 382; J. R. G. S. III. 40 seqq.)

Ramusio has: "In this province there is a fine city called TIFLIS, and round about it are many
castles and walled villages. It is inhabited by Christians, Armenians, Georgians, and some
Saracens and Jews, but not many."

NOTE 7.--The name assigned by Marco to the Caspian, "Mer de Gheluchelan" or "Ghelachelan,"
has puzzled commentators. I have no doubt that the interpretation adopted above is the correct
one. I suppose that Marco said that the sea was called "La Mer de Ghel ou (de) Ghelan," a name
taken from the districts of the ancient Gelae on its south-western shores, called indifferently
Gíl or Gílán, just as many other regions of Asia have like duplicate titles (singular and plural),
arising, I suppose, from the change of a gentile into a local name. Such are Lár, Lárán, Khutl,
Khutlán, etc., a class to which Badakhshán, Wakhán, Shaghnán, Mungán, Chág-hanián, possibly
Bámián, and many others have formerly belonged, as the adjectives in some cases surviving,
Badakhshi, Shaghni, Wákhi, etc., show[2] The change exemplified in the induration of these
gentile plurals into local singulars is everywhere traced in the passage from earlier to later
geography. The old Indian geographical lists, such as are preserved in the Puránas, and in
Pliny's extracts from Megasthenes, are, in the main, lists of peoples, not of provinces, and
even where the real name seems to be local a gentile form is often given. So also Tochari and
Sogdi are replaced by Tokháristán and Sughd; the Veneti and Taurini by Venice and Turin; the
Remi and the Parisii, by Rheims and Paris; East-Saxons and South-Saxons by Essex and Sussex;
not to mention the countless -ings that mark the tribal settlement of the Saxons in Britain.

Abulfeda, speaking of this territory, uses exactly Polo's phrase, saying that the districts
in question are properly called Kíl-o-Kílán, but by the Arabs Jíl-o-Jílán. Teixeira gives the
Persian name of the sea as Darya Ghiláni. (See Abulf. in Büsching, v. 329.)

[The province of Gíl (Gílán), which is situated between the mountains and the Caspian Sea,
and between the provinces of Azerbaíján and Mazandéran (H. C.)], gave name to the silk for
which it was and is still famous, mentioned as Ghelle (Gílí) at the end of this chapter. This
Seta Ghella is mentioned also by Pegolotti (pp. 212, 238, 301), and by Uzzano, with an odd
transposition, as Seta Leggi, along with Seta Masandroni, i.e. from the adjoining province
of Mazanderán (p. 192). May not the Spanish Geliz, "a silk-dealer," which seems to have been
a puzzle to etymologists, be connected with this? (See Dosy and Engelmann, 2nd ed. p. 275.)
[Prof. F. de Filippi (Viaggo in Persia nel 1862,... Milan, 1865, 8vo) speaks of the silk industry
of Ghílán (pp. 295-296) as the principal product of the entire province.--H. C]

The dimensions assigned to the Caspian in the text would be very correct if length were meant,
but the Geog. Text with the same figure specifies circuit (zire). Ramusio again has "a circuit
of 2800 miles." Possibly the original reading was 2700; but this would be in excess.

NOTE 8.--The Caspian is termed by Vincent of Beauvais Mare Seruanicum, the Sea of Shirwan,
another of its numerous Oriental names, rendered by Marino Sanuto as Mare Salvanicum. (III.
xi. ch. ix.) But it was generally known to the Franks in the Middle Ages as the SEA OF BACU.
Thus Berni:--

  "Fuor del deserto la diritta strada
  Lungo il Mar di Bacu miglior pareva."
      (Orl. Innam. xvii. 60.)

And in the Sfera of Lionardo Dati (circa 1390):--

  "Da Tramontana di quest' Asia Grande
  Tartari son sotto la fredda Zona,
  Gente bestial di bestie e vivande,
  Fin dove l'Onda di Baccù risuona," etc. (p. 10.)

This name is introduced in Ramusio, but probably by interpolation, as well as the correction
of the statement regarding Euphrates, which is perhaps a branch of the notion alluded to in
Prologue, ch. ii. note 5. In a later chapter Marco calls it the Sea of Sarai, a title also
given in the Carta Catalana. [Odorico calls it Sea of Bacuc (Cathay) and Sea of Bascon (Cordier).
The latter name is a corruption of Abeskun, a small town and island in the S.E. corner of the
Caspian Sea, not far from Ashurada.--H. C.]

We have little information as to the Genoese navigation of the Caspian, but the great number
of names exhibited along its shores in the map just named (1375) shows how familiar such navigation
had become by that date. See also Cathay, p. 50, where an account is given of a remarkable
enterprise by Genoese buccaneers on the Caspian about that time. Mas'údi relates an earlier
history of how about the beginning of the 9th century a fleet of 500 Russian vessels came out
of the Volga, and ravaged all the populous southern and western shores of the Caspian. The
unhappy population was struck with astonishment and horror at this unlooked-for visitation
from a sea that had hitherto been only frequented by peaceful traders or fishermen. (II. 18-24.)

NOTE 9.--[The enormous quantity of fish found in the Caspian Sea is ascribed to the mass of
vegetable food to be found in the shallower waters of the North and the mouth of the Volga.
According to Reclus, the Caspian fisheries bring in fish to the annual value of between three
and four millions sterling.--H. C.]

[1] See Letter of Frederic to the Roman Senate, of 20th June, 1241, in
    Bréholles. Mahommedan writers, contemporary with the Mongol
    invasions, regarded these as a manifest sign of the approaching end of
    the world. (See Elliot's Historians, II. p. 265.)

[2] When the first edition was published, I was not aware of remarks to
    like effect regarding names of this character by Sir H. Rawlinson in
    the J. R. As. Soc. vol. xi. pp. 64 and 103.

CHAPTER V.

OF THE KINGDOM OF MAUSUL.

On the frontier of Armenia towards the south-east is the kingdom of MAUSUL. It is a very great
kingdom, and inhabited[NOTE 1] by several different kinds of people whom we shall now describe.

First there is a kind of people called ARABI, and these worship Mahommet. Then there is another
description of people who are NESTORIAN and JACOBITE Christians. These have a Patriarch, whom
they call the JATOLIC, and this Patriarch creates Archbishops, and Abbots, and Prelates of
all other degrees, and sends them into every quarter, as to India, to Baudas, or to Cathay,
just as the Pope of Rome does in the Latin countries. For you must know that though there is
a very great number of Christians in those countries, they are all Jacobites and Nestorians;
Christians indeed, but not in the fashion enjoined by the Pope of Rome, for they come short
in several points of the Faith.[NOTE 2]

All the cloths of gold and silk that are called Mosolins are made in this country; and those
great Merchants called Mosolins, who carry for sale such quantities of spicery and pearls and
cloths of silk and gold, are also from this kingdom.[NOTE 3]

There is yet another race of people who inhabit the mountains in that quarter, and are called
CURDS. Some of them are Christians, and some of them are Saracens; but they are an evil generation,
whose delight it is to plunder merchants.[NOTE 4]

[Near this province is another called MUS and MERDIN, producing an immense quantity of cotton,
from which they make a great deal of buckram[NOTE 5] and other cloth. The people are craftsmen
and traders, and all are subject to the Tartar King.]

NOTE 1.--Polo could scarcely have been justified in calling MOSUL a very great kingdom. This
is a bad habit of his, as we shall have to notice again. Badruddin Lúlú, the last Atabeg of
Mosul of the race of Zenghi had at the age of 96 taken sides with Hulaku, and stood high in
his favour. His son Malik Sálih, having revolted, surrendered to the Mongols in 1261 on promise
of life; which promise they kept in Mongol fashion by torturing him to death. Since then the
kingdom had ceased to exist as such. Coins of Badruddín remain with the name and titles of
Mangku Kaan on their reverse, and some of his and of other atabegs exhibit curious imitations
of Greek art. (Quat. Rash. p. 389 Jour. As. IV. VI. 141.).--H. Y. and H. C. [Mosul was pillaged
by Timur at the end of the 14th century; during the 15th it fell into the hands of the Turkomans,
and during the 16th, of Ismail, Shah of Persia.--H. C.]

[The population of Mosul is to-day 61,000 inhabitants--(48,000 Musulmans, 10,000 Christians
belonging to various churches, and 3000 Jews).--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--The Nestorian Church was at this time and in the preceding centuries diffused over
Asia to an extent of which little conception is generally entertained, having a chain of Bishops
and Metropolitans from Jerusalem to Peking. The Church derived its name from Nestorius, Patriarch
of Constantinople, who was deposed by the Council of Ephesus in 431. The chief "point of the
Faith" wherein it came short, was (at least in its most tangible form) the doctrine that in
Our Lord there were two Persons, one of the Divine Word, the other of the Man Jesus; the former
dwelling in the latter as in a Temple, or uniting with the latter "as fire with iron." Nestorin,
the term used by Polo, is almost a literal transcript of the Arab form Nastúri. A notice of
the Metropolitan sees, with a map, will be found in Cathay, p. ccxliv.

Játhalík, written in our text (from G. T.) Jatolic, by Fr. Burchard and Ricold Jaselic, stands
for [Greek: Katholikós]. No doubt it was originally Gáthalík, but altered in pronunciation
by the Arabs. The term was applied by Nestorians to their Patriarch; among the Jacobites to
the Mafrián or Metropolitan. The Nestorian Patriarch at this time resided at Baghdad. (Assemani,
vol. iii. pt. 2; Per. Quat. 91, 127.)

The Jacobites, or Jacobins, as they are called by writers of that age (Ar. Ya'úbkiy), received
their name from Jacob Baradaeus or James Zanzale, Bishop of Edessa (so called, Mas'údi says,
because he was a maker of barda'at or saddle-cloths), who gave a great impulse to their doctrine
in the 6th century. [At some time between the years 541 and 578, he separated from the Church
and became a follower of the doctrine of Eutyches.--H. C.] The Jacobites then formed an independent
Church, which at one time spread over the East at least as far as Sístán, where they had a
see under the Sassanian Kings. Their distinguishing tenet was Monophysitism, viz., that Our
Lord had but one Nature, the Divine. It was in fact a rebound from Nestorian doctrine, but,
as might be expected in such a case, there was a vast number of shades of opinion among both
bodies. The chief locality of the Jacobites was in the districts of Mosul, Tekrit, and Jazírah,
and their Patriarch was at this time settled at the Monastery of St. Matthew, near Mosul, but
afterwards, and to the present day, at or near Mardin. [They have at present two patriarchates:
the Monastery of Zapharan near Baghdad and Etchmiadzin.--H. C.] The Armenian, Coptic, Abyssinian,
and Malabar Churches all hold some shade of the Jacobite doctrine, though the first two at
least have Patriarchs apart.

(Assemani, vol. ii.; Le Quien, II. 1596; Mas'údi, II. 329-330; Per. Quat. 124-129.)

NOTE 3.--We see here that mosolin or muslin had a very different meaning from what it has now.
A quotation from Ives by Marsden shows it to have been applied in the middle of last century
to a strong cotton cloth made at Mosul. Dozy says the Arabs use Mauçili in the sense of muslin,
and refers to passages in 'The Arabian Nights.' [Bretschneider (Med. Res. II. p. 122) observes
"that in the narrative of Ch'ang Ch'un's travels to the west in 1221, it is stated that in
Samarkand the men of the lower classes and the priests wrap their heads about with a piece
of white mo-sze. There can be no doubt that mo-sze here denotes 'muslin,' and the Chinese author
seems to understand by this term the same material which we are now used to call muslin."--H.
C.] I have found no elucidation of Polo's application of mosolini to a class of merchants.
But, in a letter of Pope Innocent IV. (1244) to the Dominicans in Palestine, we find classed
as different bodies of Oriental Christians, "Jacobitae, Nestoritae, Georgiani, Graeci, Armeni,
Maronitae, et Mosolini." (Le Quien, III. 1342.)

NOTE 4.--"The Curds," says Ricold, "exceed in malignant ferocity all the barbarous nations
that I have seen.... They are called Curti, not because they are curt in stature, but from
the Persian word for Wolves.... They have three principal vices, viz., Murder, Robbery, and
Treachery." Some say they have not mended since, but his etymology is doubtful. Kúrt is Turkish
for a wolf, not Persian, which is Gurg; but the name (Karduchi, Kordiaei, etc.) is older, I
imagine, than the Turkish language in that part of Asia. Quatremère refers it to the Persian
gurd, "strong, valiant, hero." As regards the statement that some of the Kurds were Christians,
Mas'údi states that the Jacobites and certain other Christians in the territory of Mosul and
Mount Judi were reckoned among the Kurds. (Not. et Ext. XIII. i. 304.) [The Kurds of Mosul
are in part nomadic and are called Kotcheres, but the greater number are sedentary and cultivate
cereals, cotton, tobacco, and fruits. (Cuinet.) Old Kurdistan had Shehrizor (Kerkuk, in the
sanjak of that name) as its capital.--H. C.]

NOTE 5.--Ramusio here, as in all passages where other texts have Bucherami and the like, puts
Boccassini, a word which has become obsolete in its turn. I see both Bochayrani and Bochasini
coupled, in a Genoese fiscal statute of 1339, quoted by Pardessus. (Lois Maritimes, IV. 456.)

MUSH and MARDIN are in very different regions, but as their actual interval is only about 120
miles, they may have been under one provincial government. Mush is essentially Armenian, and,
though the seat of a Pashalik, is now a wretched place. Mardin, on the verge of the Mesopotamian
Plain, rises in terraces on a lofty hill, and there, says Hammer, "Sunnis and Shias, Catholic
and Schismatic Armenians, Jacobites, Nestorians, Chaldaeans, Sun-, Fire-, Calf-, and Devil-worshippers
dwell one over the head of the other." (Ilchan. I. 191.)

CHAPTER VI.

OF THE GREAT CITY OF BAUDAS, AND HOW IT WAS TAKEN.

Baudas is a great city, which used to be the seat of the Calif of all the Saracens in the world,
just as Rome is the seat of the Pope of all the Christians.[NOTE 1] A very great river flows
through the city, and by this you can descend to the Sea of India. It is the noblest and greatest
city in all those regions.[NOTE 4]

Now it came to pass on a day in the year of Christ 1255, that the Lord of the Tartars of the
Levant, whose name was Alaü, brother to the Great Kaan now reigning, gathered a mighty host
and came up against Baudas and took it by storm.[NOTE 5] It was a great enterprise! for in
Baudas there were more than 100,000 horse, besides foot soldiers. And when Alaü had taken the
place he found therein a tower of the Califs, which was full of gold and silver and other treasure;
in fact the greatest accumulation of treasure in one spot that ever was known.[NOTE 6] When
he beheld that great heap of treasure he was astonished, and, summoning the Calif to his presence,
he said to him: "Calif, tell me now why thou hast gathered such a huge treasure? What didst
thou mean to do therewith? Knewest thou not that I was thine enemy, and that I was coming against
thee with so great an host to cast thee forth of thine heritage? Wherefore didst thou not take
of thy gear and employ it in paying knights and soldiers to defend thee and thy city?"

The Calif wist not what to answer, and said never a word. So the Prince continued, "Now then,
Calif, since I see what a love thou hast borne thy treasure, I will e'en give it thee to eat!"
So he shut the Calif up in the Treasure Tower, and bade that neither meat nor drink should
be given him, saying, "Now, Calif, eat of thy treasure as much as thou wilt, since thou art
so fond of it; for never shalt thou have aught else to eat!"

So the Calif lingered in the tower four days, and then died like a dog. Truly his treasure
would have been of more service to him had he bestowed it upon men who would have defended
his kingdom and his people, rather than let himself be taken and deposed and put to death as
he was.[NOTE 7] Howbeit, since that time, there has been never another Calif, either at Baudas
or anywhere else.[NOTE 8]

Now I will tell you of a great miracle that befell at Baudas, wrought by God on behalf of the
Christians.

NOTE 1.--This form of the Mediaeval Frank name of BAGHDAD, Baudas [the Chinese traveller, Ch'ang
Te, Si Shi Ki, XIII. cent., says, "the kingdom of Bao-da," H. C.], is curiously like that used
by the Chinese historians, Paota (Pauthier; Gaubil), and both are probably due to the Mongol
habit of slurring gutturals. (See Prologue, ch. ii. note 3.) [Baghdad was taken on the 5th
of February, 1258, and the Khalif surrendered to Hulaku on the 10th of February.--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--Polo is here either speaking without personal knowledge, or is so brief as to convey
an erroneous impression that the Tigris flows to Kisi, whereas three-fourths of the length
of the Persian Gulf intervene between the river mouth and Kisi. The latter is the island and
city of KISH or KAIS, about 200 miles from the mouth of the Gulf, and for a long time one of
the chief ports of trade with India and the East. The island, the Cataea of Arrian, now called
Ghes or Kenn, is singular among the islands of the Gulf as being wooded and well supplied with
fresh water. The ruins of a city [called Harira, according to Lord Curzon,] exist on the north
side. According to Wassáf, the island derived its name from one Kais, the son of a poor widow
of Síráf (then a great port of Indian trade on the northern shore of the Gulf), who on a voyage
to India, about the 10th century, made a fortune precisely as Dick Whittington did. The proceeds
of the cat were invested in an establishment on this island. Modern attempts to nationalise
Whittington may surely be given up! It is one of the tales which, like Tell's shot, the dog
Gellert, and many others, are common to many regions. (Hammer's Ilch. I. 239; Ouseley's Travels,
I. 170; Notes and Queries, 2nd s. XI. 372.)

Mr. Badger, in a postscript to his translation of the History of Omán (Hak. Soc. 1871), maintains
that Kish or Kais was at this time a city on the mainland, and identical from Síráf. He refers
to Ibn Batuta (II. 244), who certainly does speak of visiting "the city of Kais, called also
Síráf." And Polo, neither here nor in Bk. III. ch. xl., speaks of Kisi as an island. I am inclined,
however, to think that this was from not having visited it. Ibn Batuta says nothing of Síráf
as a seat of trade; but the historian Wassáf, who had been in the service of Jamáluddín al-Thaibi,
the Lord of Kais, in speaking of the export of horses thence to India, calls it "the Island
of Kais." (Elliot, III. 34.) Compare allusions to this horse trade in ch. xv. and in Bk. III.
ch. xvii. Wassáf was precisely a contemporary of Polo.

NOTE 3.--The name is Bascra in the MSS., but this is almost certainly the common error of c
for t. BASRA is still noted for its vast date-groves. "The whole country from the confluence
of the Euphrates and Tigris to the sea, a distance of 30 leagues, is covered with these trees."
(Tav. Bk. II. ch. iii.)

NOTE 4.--From Baudas, or Baldac, i.e. Baghdad, certain of these rich silk and gold brocades
were called Baldachini, or in English Baudekins. From their use in the state canopies and umbrellas
of Italian dignitaries, the word Baldacchino has come to mean a canopy, even when architectural.
[Baldekino, baldacchino, was at first entirely made of silk, but afterwards silk was mixed
(sericum mixtum) with cotton or thread. When Hulaku conquered Baghdad part of the tribute was
to be paid with that kind of stuff. Later on, says Heyd (II. p. 697), it was also manufactured
in the province of Ahwaz, at Damas and at Cyprus; it was carried as far as France and England.
Among the articles sent from Baghdad to Okkodai Khan, mentioned in the Yüan ch'ao pi shi (made
in the 14th century), quoted by Bretschneider (Med. Res. II. p. 124), we note: Nakhut (a kind
of gold brocade), Nachidut (a silk stuff interwoven with gold), Dardas (a stuff embroidered
in gold). Bretschneider (p. 125) adds: "With respect to nakhut and nachidut, I may observe
that these words represent the Mongol plural form of nakh and nachetti.... I may finally mention
that in the Yüan shi, ch. lxxviii. (on official dresses), a stuff, na-shi- shi, is repeatedly
named, and the term is explained there by kin kin (gold brocade)."--H. C.] The stuffs called
Nasich and Nac are again mentioned by our traveller below (ch. lix.). We only know that they
were of silk and gold, as he implies here, and as Ibn Batuta tells us, who mentions Nakh several
times and Nasíj once. The latter is also mentioned by Rubruquis (Nasic) as a present made to
him at the Kaan's court. And Pegolotti speaks of both nacchi and nacchetti of silk and gold,
the latter apparently answering to Nasich. Nac, Nacques, Nachiz, Nacíz, Nasís, appear in accounts
and inventories of the 14th century, French and English. (See Dictionnaire des Tissus, II.
[Cf. Heyd, Com. du Levant, II. p. 698; Nacco, nachetto, comes from the Arabic nakh (nekh);
nassit (nasith) from the Arabic nécidj.--H. C.] Quermesis or Cramoisy derived its name from
the Kermes insect (Ar. Kirmiz) found on Quercus coccifera, now supplanted by cochineal. The
stuff so called is believed to have been originally a crimson velvet, but apparently, like
the mediaeval Purpura, if not identical with it, it came to indicate a tissue rather than a
colour. Thus Fr.-Michel quotes velvet of vermeil cramoisy, of violet, and of blue cramoisy,
and pourpres of a variety of colours, though he says he has never met with pourpre blanche.
I may, however, point to Plano Carpini (p. 755), who describes the courtiers at Karakorum as
clad in white purpura.

The London prices of Chermisi and Baldacchini in the early part of the 15th century will be
found in Uzzano's work, but they are hard to elucidate.

Babylon, of which Baghdad was the representative, was famous for its variegated textures in
very early days. We do not know the nature of the goodly Babylonish garment which tempted Achan
in Jericho, but Josephus speaks of the affluence of rich stuffs carried in the triumph of Titus,
"gorgeous with life-like designs from the Babylonian loom," and he also describes the memorable
Veil of the Temple as a [Greek: péplos Babylónios] of varied colours marvellously wrought.
Pliny says King Attalus invented the intertexture of cloth with gold; but the weaving of damasks
of a variety of colours was perfected at Babylon, and thence they were called Babylonian.

The brocades wrought with figures of animals in gold, of which Marco speaks, are still a spécialité
at Benares, where they are known by the name of Shikárgáh or hunting-grounds, which is nearly
a translation of the name Thard-wahsh "beast-hunts," by which they were known to the mediaeval
Saracens. (See Q. Makrizi, IV. 69-70.) Plautus speaks of such patterns in carpets, the produce
of Alexandria--"Alexandrina belluata conchyliata tapetia." Athenaeus speaks of Persian carpets
of like description at an extravagant entertainment given by Antiochus Epiphanes; and the same
author cites a banquet given in Persia by Alexander, at which there figured costly curtains
embroidered with animals. In the 4th century Asterius, Bishop of Amasia in Pontus, rebukes
the Christians who indulge in such attire: "You find upon them lions, panthers, bears, huntsmen,
woods, and rocks; whilst the more devout display Christ and His disciples, with the stories
of His miracles," etc. And Sidonius alludes to upholstery of like character:

  "Peregrina det supellex
       *       *       *
  Ubi torvus, et per artem
  Resupina flexus ora,
  It equo reditque telo
  Simulacra bestiarum
  Fugiens fugansque Parthus." (Epist. ix. 13.)

A modern Kashmír example of such work is shown under ch. xvii.

(D'Avezac, p. 524; Pegolotti, in Cathay, 295, 306; I. B. II. 309, 388, 422; III. 81; Della
Decima, IV. 125-126; Fr.-Michel, Recherches, etc., II. 10-16, 204-206; Joseph. Bell. Jud. VII.
5, 5, and V. 5, 4; Pliny, VIII. 74 (or 48); Plautus, Pseudolus, I. 2; Yonge's Athenaeus, V.
26 and XII. 54; Mongez in Mém. Acad. IV. 275-276.)

NOTE 5.--[Bretschneider (Med. Res. I. p. 114) says: "Hulagu left Karakorum, the residence of
his brother, on the 2nd May, 1253, and returned to his ordo, in order to organize his army.
On the 19th October of the same year, all being ready, he started for the west." He arrived
at Samarkand in September, 1255. For this chapter and the following of Polo, see: Hulagu's
Expedition to Western Asia, after the Mohammedan Authors, pp. 112-122, and the Translation
of the Si Shi Ki (Ch'ang Te), pp. 122-156, in Bretschneider's Mediaeval Researches, I.--H. C.]

NOTE 6.--["Hulagu proceeded to the lake of Ormia (Urmia), when he
ordered a castle to be built on the island of Tala, in the middle of the
lake, for the purpose of depositing here the immense treasures captured at
Baghdad. A great part of the booty, however, had been sent to Mangu Khan."
(Hulagu's Exp., Bretschneider, Med. Res. I. p. 120.) Ch'ang Te says
(Si Shi Ki, p. 139): "The palace of the Ha-li-fa was built of fragrant
and precious woods. The walls of it were constructed of black and white
jade.
  By the road that leadeth to Ispahan." (Longfellow.)[1]

The story of the death of Mosta'sim Billah, the last of the Abbaside Khalifs, is told in much
the same way by Hayton, Ricold, Pachymeres, and Joinville. The memory of the last glorious
old man must have failed him, when he says the facts were related by some merchants who came
to King Lewis, when before Saiette (or Sidon), viz. in 1253, for the capture of Baghdad occurred
five years later. Mar. Sanuto says melted gold was poured down the Khalif's throat--a transfer,
no doubt, from the old story of Crassus and the Parthians. Contemporary Armenian historians
assert that Hulaku slew him with his own hand.

All that Rashiduddin says is: "The evening of Wednesday, the 14th of Safar, 656 (20th February,
1258), the Khalif was put to death in the village of Wakf, with his eldest son and five eunuchs
who had never quitted him." Later writers say that he was wrapt in a carpet and trodden to
death by horses.

[Cf. The Story of the Death of the last Abbaside Caliph, from the Vatican MS. of Ibn-al-Furat,
by G. le Strange (Jour. R. As. Soc., April, 1900, pp. 293-300). This is the story of the death
of the Khalif told by Ibn-al-Furat (born in Cairo, 1335 A.D.):

"Then Hulagu gave command, and the Caliph was left a-hungering, until his case was that of
very great hunger, so that he called asking that somewhat might be given him to eat. And the
accursed Hulagu sent for a dish with gold therein, and a dish with silver therein, and a dish
with gems, and ordered these all to be set before the Caliph al Musta'sim, saying to him, 'Eat
these.' But the Caliph made answer, 'These be not fit for eating.' Then said Hulagu: 'Since
thou didst so well know that these be not fit for eating, why didst thou make a store thereof?
With part thereof thou mightest have sent gifts to propitiate us, and with part thou shouldst
have raised an army to serve thee and defend thyself against us! And Hulagu commanded them
to take forth the Caliph and his son to a place without the camp, and they were here bound
and put into two great sacks, being afterwards trampled under foot till they both died--the
mercy of Allah be upon them."--H. C.]

The foundation of the story, so widely received among the Christians, is to be found also in
the narrative of Nikbi (and Mirkhond), which is cited by D'Obsson. When the Khalif surrendered,
Hulaku put before him a plateful of gold, and told him to eat it. "But one does not eat gold,"
said the prisoner. "Why, then," replied the Tartar, "did you hoard it, instead of expending
it in keeping up an army? Why did you not meet me at the Oxus?" The Khalif could only say,
"Such was God's will!" "And that which has befallen you was also God's will," said Hulaku.

Wassáf's narrative is interesting:--"Two days after his capture the Khalif was at his morning
prayer, and began with the verse (Koran, III. 25), 'Say God is the Possessor of Dominion! It
shall be given to whom He will; it shall be taken from whom He will: whom He will He raiseth
to honour; whom He will He casteth to the ground.' Having finished the regular office he continued
still in prayer with tears and importunity. Bystanders reported to the Ilkhan the deep humiliation
of the Khalif's prayers, and the text which seemed to have so striking an application to those
two princes. Regarding what followed there are different stories. Some say that the Ilkhan
ordered food to be withheld from the Khalif, and that when he asked for food the former bade
a dish of gold be placed before him, etc. Eventually, after taking counsel with his chiefs,
the Padishah ordered the execution of the Khalif. It was represented that the blood-drinking
sword ought not to be stained with the gore of Mosta'sim. He was therefore rolled in a carpet,
just as carpets are usually rolled up, insomuch that his limbs were crushed."

The avarice of the Khalif was proverbial. When the Mongol army was investing Miafarakain, the
chief, Malik Kamál, told his people that everything he had should be at the service of those
in need: "Thank God, I am not like Mosta'sim, a worshipper of silver and gold!"

(Hayton in Ram. ch. xxvi.; Per. Quat. 121; Pachym. Mic. Palaeol. II. 24; Joinville, p. 182;
Sanuto, p. 238; J. As. sér. V. tom. xi. 490, and xvi. 291; D'Ohsson, III. 243; Hammer's Wassáf,
75-76; Quat. Rashid. 305.)

NOTE 8.--Nevertheless Froissart brings the Khalif to life again one hundred and twenty years
later, as "Le Galifre de Baudas." (Bk. III. ch. xxiv.)

[1] Not that Alaü (pace Mr. Longfellow) ever did see Cambalu.

CHAPTER VII.

HOW THE CALIF OF BAUDAS TOOK COUNSEL TO SLAY ALL THE CHRISTIANS IN HIS LAND.

I will tell you then this great marvel that occurred between Baudas and Mausul.

It was in the year of Christ[NOTE 1] ... that there was a Calif at Baudas who bore a great
hatred to Christians, and was taken up day and night with the thought how he might either bring
those that were in his kingdom over to his own faith, or might procure them all to be slain.
And he used daily to take counsel about this with the devotees and priests of his faith,[NOTE
2] for they all bore the Christians like malice. And, indeed, it is a fact, that the whole
body of Saracens throughout the world are always most malignantly disposed towards the whole
body of Christians.

Now it happened that the Calif, with those shrewd priests of his, got hold of that passage
in our Gospel which says, that if a Christian had faith as a grain of mustard seed, and should
bid a mountain be removed, it would be removed. And such indeed is the truth. But when they
had got hold of this text they were delighted, for it seemed to them the very thing whereby
either to force all the Christians to change their faith, or to bring destruction upon them
all. The Calif therefore called together all the Christians in his territories, who were extremely
numerous. And when they had come before him, he showed them the Gospel, and made them read
the text which I have mentioned. And when they had read it he asked them if that was the truth?
The Christians answered that it assuredly was so. "Well," said the Calif, "since you say that
it is the truth, I will give you a choice. Among such a number of you there must needs surely
be this small amount of faith; so you must either move that mountain there,"--and he pointed
to a mountain in the neighbourhood--"or you shall die an ill death; unless you choose to eschew
death by all becoming Saracens and adopting our Holy Law. To this end I give you a respite
of ten days; if the thing be not done by that time, ye shall die or become Saracens." And when
he had said this he dismissed them, to consider what was to be done in this strait wherein
they were.

NOTE 1.--The date in the G. Text and Pauthier is 1275, which of course cannot have been intended.
Ramusio has 1225.

[The Khalifs in 1225 were Abu'l Abbas Ahmed VII. en-Nassir lidini 'llah (1180-1225) and Abu
Nasr Mohammed IX. ed-Dhahir bi-emri 'llah (1225-1226).--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--"Cum sez regisles et cum sez casses." (G. T.) I suppose the former expression to be
a form of Regules, which is used in Polo's book for persons of a religious rule or order, whether
Christian or Pagan. The latter word (casses) I take to be the Arabic Kashísh, properly a Christian
Presbyter, but frequently applied by old travellers, and habitually by the Portuguese (caxiz,
caxix), to Mahomedan Divines. (See Cathay, p. 568.) It may, however, be Kází.

Pauthier's text has simply "à ses prestres de la Loi."

CHAPTER VIII.

HOW THE CHRISTIANS WERE IN GREAT DISMAY BECAUSE OF WHAT THE CALIF HAD SAID.

The Christians on hearing what the Calif had said were in great dismay, but they lifted all
their hopes to God, their Creator, that He would help them in this their strait. All the wisest
of the Christians took counsel together, and among them were a number of bishops and priests,
but they had no resource except to turn to Him from whom all good things do come, beseeching
Him to protect them from the cruel hands of the Calif.

So they were all gathered together in prayer, both men and women, for eight days and eight
nights. And whilst they were thus engaged in prayer it was revealed in a vision by a Holy Angel
of Heaven to a certain Bishop who was a very good Christian, that he should desire a certain
Christian Cobler,[NOTE 1] who had but one eye, to pray to God; and that God in His goodness
would grant such prayer because of the Cobler's holy life.

Now I must tell you what manner of man this Cobler was. He was one who led a life of great
uprightness and chastity, and who fasted and kept from all sin, and went daily to church to
hear Mass, and gave daily a portion of his gains to God. And the way how he came to have but
one eye was this. It happened one day that a certain woman came to him to have a pair of shoes
made, and she showed him her foot that he might take her measure. Now she had a very beautiful
foot and leg; and the Cobler in taking her measure was conscious of sinful thoughts. And he
had often heard it said in the Holy Evangel, that if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out and
cast it from thee, rather than sin. So, as soon as the woman had departed, he took the awl
that he used in stitching, and drove it into his eye and destroyed it. And this is the way
he came to lose his eye. So you can judge what a holy, just, and righteous man he was.

NOTE 1.--Here the G. T. uses a strange word: "Or te vais a tel cralantur." It does not occur
again, being replaced by chabitier (savetier). It has an Oriental look, but I can make no satisfactory
suggestion as to what the word meant.

CHAPTER IX.

HOW THE ONE-EYED COBLER WAS DESIRED TO PRAY FOR THE CHRISTIANS.

Now when this vision had visited the Bishop several times, he related the whole matter to the
Christians, and they agreed with one consent to call the Cobler before them. And when he had
come they told him it was their wish that he should pray, and that God had promised to accomplish
the matter by his means. On hearing their request he made many excuses, declaring that he was
not at all so good a man as they represented. But they persisted in their request with so much
sweetness, that at last he said he would not tarry, but do what they desired.

CHAPTER X.

HOW THE PRAYER OF THE ONE-EYED COBLER CAUSED THE MOUNTAIN TO MOVE.

And when the appointed day was come, all the Christians got up early, men and women, small
and great, more than 100,000 persons, and went to church, and heard the Holy Mass. And after
Mass had been sung, they all went forth together in a great procession to the plain in front
of the mountain, carrying the precious cross before them, loudly singing and greatly weeping
as they went. And when they arrived at the spot, there they found the Calif with all his Saracen
host armed to slay them if they would not change their faith; for the Saracens believed not
in the least that God would grant such favour to the Christians. These latter stood indeed
in great fear and doubt, but nevertheless they rested their hope on their God Jesus Christ.

So the Cobler received the Bishop's benison, and then threw himself on his knees before the
Holy Cross, and stretched out his hands towards Heaven, and made this prayer: "Blessed LORD
GOD ALMIGHTY, I pray Thee by Thy goodness that Thou wilt grant this grace unto Thy people,
insomuch that they perish not, nor Thy faith be cast down, nor abused nor flouted. Not that
I am in the least worthy to prefer such request unto Thee; but for Thy great power and mercy
I beseech Thee to hear this prayer from me Thy servant full of sin."

And when he had ended this his prayer to God the Sovereign Father and Giver of all grace, and
whilst the Calif and all the Saracens, and other people there, were looking on, the mountain
rose out of its place and moved to the spot which the Calif had pointed out! And when the Calif
and all his Saracens beheld, they stood amazed at the wonderful miracle that God had wrought
for the Christians, insomuch that a great number of the Saracens became Christians. And even
the Calif caused himself to be baptised in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the
Holy Ghost, Amen, and became a Christian, but in secret. Howbeit, when he died they found a
little cross hung round his neck; and therefore the Saracens would not bury him with the other
Califs, but put him in a place apart. The Christians exulted greatly at this most holy miracle,
and returned to their homes full of joy, giving thanks to their Creator for that which He had
done.[NOTE 1]

And now you have heard in what wise took place this great miracle. And marvel not that the
Saracens hate the Christians; for the accursed law that Mahommet gave them commands them to
do all the mischief in their power to all other descriptions of people, and especially to Christians;
to strip such of their goods, and do them all manner of evil, because they belong not to their
law. See then what an evil law and what naughty commandments they have! But in such fashion
the Saracens act, throughout the world.

Now I have told you something of Baudas. I could easily indeed have told you first of the affairs
and the customs of the people there. But it would be too long a business, looking to the great
and strange things that I have got to tell you, as you will find detailed in this Book.

So now I will tell you of the noble city of Tauris.

NOTE 1.--We may remember that at a date only three years before Marco related this story (viz.
in 1295), the cottage of Loreto is asserted to have changed its locality for the third and
last time by moving to the site which it now occupies.

Some of the old Latin copies place the scene at Tauris. And I observe that a missionary of
the 16th century does the same. The mountain, he says, is between Tauris and Nakhshiwan, and
is called Manhuc. (Gravina, Christianita nell' Armenia, etc., Roma, 1605, p. 91.)

The moving of a mountain is one of the miracles ascribed to Gregory Thaumaturgus. Such stories
are rife among the Mahomedans themselves. "I know," says Khanikoff, "at least half a score
of mountains which the Musulmans allege to have come from the vicinity of Mecca."

Ramusio's text adds here: "All the Nestorian and Jacobite Christians from that time forward
have maintained a solemn celebration of the day on which the miracle occurred, keeping a fast
also on the eve thereof."

F. Göring, a writer who contributes three articles on Marco Polo to the Neue Züricher-Zeitung,
5th, 6th, 8th April, 1878, says: "I heard related in Egypt a report which Marco Polo had transmitted
to Baghdad. I will give it here in connection with another which I also came across in Egypt.

"'Many years ago there reigned in Babylon, on the Nile, a haughty Khalif who vexed the Christians
with taxes and corvées. He was confirmed in his hate of the Christians by the Khakam Chacham
Bashi or Chief Rabbi of the Jews, who one day said to him: "The Christians allege in their
books that it shall not hurt them to drink or eat any deadly thing. So I have prepared a potion
that one of them shall taste at my hand: if he does not die on the spot then call me no more
Chacham Bashi!" The Khalif immediately sent for His Holiness the Patriarch of Babylon, and
ordered him to drink up the potion. The Patriarch just blew a little over the cup and then
emptied it at a draught, and took no harm. His Holiness then on his side demanded that the
Chacham Bashi should quaff a cup to the health of the Khalif, which he (the Patriarch) should
first taste, and this the Khalif found only fair and right. But hardly had the Chacham Bashi
put the cup to his lips than he fell down and expired.' Still the Musulmans and Jews thirsted
for Christian blood. It happened at that time that a mass of the hill Mokattani became loose
and threatened to come down upon Babylon. This was laid to the door of the Christians, and
they were ordered to stop it. The Patriarch in great distress has a vision that tells him summon
the saintly cobbler (of whom the same story is told as here)--the cobbler bids the rock to
stand still and it does so to this day. 'These two stories may still be heard in Cairo'--from
whom is not said. The hill that threatened to fall on the Egyptian Babylon is called in Turkish
Dur Dagh, 'Stay, or halt-hill.' (L.c. April, 1878")--MS. Note, H. Y.

CHAPTER XI.

OF THE NOBLE CITY OF TAURIS.

Tauris is a great and noble city, situated in a great province called YRAC, in which are many
other towns and villages. But as Tauris is the most noble I will tell you about it.[NOTE 1]

The men of Tauris get their living by trade and handi crafts, for they weave many kinds of
beautiful and valuable stuffs of silk and gold. The city has such a good position that merchandize
is brought thither from India, Baudas, CREMESOR,[NOTE 2] and many other regions; and that attracts
many Latin merchants, especially Genoese, to buy goods and transact other business there; the
more as it is also a great market for precious stones. It is a city in fact where merchants
make large profits.[NOTE 3]

The people of the place are themselves poor creatures; and are a great medley of different
classes. There are Armenians, Nestorians, Jacobites, Georgians, Persians, and finally the natives
of the city themselves, who are worshippers of Mahommet. These last are a very evil generation;
they are known as TAURIZI.[NOTE 4] The city is all girt round with charming gardens, full of
many varieties of large and excellent fruits.[NOTE 5]

Now we will quit Tauris, and speak of the great country of Persia. [From Tauris to Persia is
a journey of twelve days.]

NOTE 1.--Abulfeda notices that TABRÍZ was vulgarly pronounced Tauriz, and this appears to have
been adopted by the Franks. In Pegolotti the name is always Torissi.

Tabriz is often reckoned to belong to Armenia, as by Hayton. Properly it is the chief city
of Azerbaiján, which never was included in 'IRAK. But it may be observed that Ibn Batuta generally
calls the Mongol Ilkhan of Persia Sáhib or Malik ul-'Irák, and as Tabriz was the capital of
that sovereign, we can account for the mistake, whilst admitting it to be one. [The destruction
of Baghdad by Hulaku made Tabriz the great commercial and political city of Asia, and diverted
the route of Indian products from the Mediterranean to the Euxine. It was the route to the
Persian Gulf by Kashan, Yezd, and Kermán, to the Mediterranean by Lajazzo, and later on by
Aleppo,--and to the Euxine by Trebizond. The destruction of the Kingdom of Armenia closed to
Europeans the route of Tauris.--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--Cremesor, as Baldelli points out, is GARMSIR, meaning a hot region, a term which in
Persia has acquired several specific applications, and especially indicates the coast-country
on the N.E. side of the Persian Gulf, including Hormuz and the ports in that quarter.

NOTE 3.--[Of the Italians established at Tabriz, the first whose name is mentioned is the Venetian
Pietro Viglioni (Vioni); his will, dated 10th December, 1264, is still in existence. (Archiv.
Venet. XXVI. pp. 161-165; Heyd, French Ed., II. p. 110.)--H. C.] At a later date (1341) the
Genoese had a factory at Tabriz headed by a consul with a council of twenty four merchants,
and in 1320 there is evidence of a Venetian settlement there. (Elie de la Prim, 161; Heyd, II. 82.)

Rashiduddin says of Tabriz that there were gathered there under the eyes of the Padishah of
Islam "philosophers, astronomers, scholars, historians, of all religions, of all sects; people
of Cathay, of Machin, of India, of Kashmir, of Tibet, of the Uighúr and other Turkish nations,
Arabs and Franks." Ibn Batuta, "I traversed the bazaar of the jewellers, and my eyes were dazzled
by the varieties of precious stones which I beheld. Handsome slaves, superbly dressed, and
girdled with silk, offered their gems for sale to the Tartar ladies, who bought great numbers.
[Odoric (ed. Cordier) speaks also of the great trade of Tabriz.] Tabriz maintained a large
population and prosperity down to the 17th century, as may be seen in Chardin. It is now greatly
fallen, though still a place of importance." (Quat. Rash., p. 39; I. B. II. 130.)

NOTE 4.--In Pauthier's text this is Touzi, a mere clerical error, I doubt not for Torizi, in
accordance with the G. Text ("le peuple de la cité que sunt apelés Tauriz"), with the Latin,
and with Ramusio. All that he means to say is that the people are called Tabrizís. Not recondite
information, but 'tis his way. Just so he tells us in ch[*illegible*]u that the people of Hermenia
are called Hermins, and elsewhere that the people of Tebet are called Tebet. So Hayton thinks
it not inappropriate to say that the people of Catay are called Cataini, that the people of
Corasmia are called Corasmins, and that the people of the cities of Persia are called Persians.

NOTE 5.--Hamd Allah Mastaufi, the Geographer, not long after Polo's time, gives an account
of Tabriz, quoted in Barbier de Meynard's Dict. de la Perse, p. 132. This also notices the
extensive gardens round the city, the great abundance and cheapness of fruits, the vanity,
insolence, and faithlessness of the Tabrízis, etc. (p. 132 seqq.) Our cut shows a relic of
the Mongol Dynasty at Tabriz.

CHAPTER XII.

OF THE MONASTERY OF ST. BARSAMO ON THE BORDERS OF TAURIS.

On the borders of (the territory of) Tauris there is a monastery called after Saint Barsamo,
a most devout Saint. There is an Abbot, with many Monks, who wear a habit like that of the
Carmelites, and these to avoid idleness are continually knitting woollen girdles. These they
place upon the altar of St. Barsamo during the service, and when they go begging about the
province (like the Brethren of the Holy Spirit) they present them to their friends and to the
gentlefolks, for they are excellent things to remove bodily pain; wherefore every one is devoutly
eager to possess them.[NOTE 1]

NOTE 1.--Barsauma ("The Son of Fasting") was a native of Samosata, and an Archimandrite of
the Asiatic Church. He opposed the Nestorians, but became himself still more obnoxious to the
orthodox as a spreader of the Monophysite Heresy. He was condemned by the Council of Chalcedon
(451), and died in 458. He is a Saint of fame in the Jacobite and Armenian Churches, and several
monasteries were dedicated to him; but by far the most celebrated, and doubtless that meant
here, was near Malatia. It must have been famous even among the Mahomedans, for it has an article
in Bákúi's Geog. Dictionary. (Dír-Barsúma, see N. et Ext. II. 515.) This monastery possessed
relics of Barsauma and of St. Peter, and was sometimes the residence of the Jacobite Patriarch
and the meeting-place of the Synods.

A more marvellous story than Marco's is related of this monastery by Vincent of Beauvais: "There
is in that kingdom (Armenia) a place called St. Brassamus, at which there is a monastery for
300 monks. And 'tis said that if ever an enemy attacks it, the defences of the monastery move
of themselves, and shoot back the shot against the besieger."

(Assemani in vol. ii. passim; Tournefort, III. 260; Vin. Bell. Spec. Historiale, Lib. XXX.
c. cxlii.; see also Mar. Sanut. III. xi. c. 16.)

CHAPTER XIII.

OF THE GREAT COUNTRY OF PERSIA; WITH SOME ACCOUNT OF THE THREE KINGS.

Persia is a great country, which was in old times very illustrious and powerful; but now the
Tartars have wasted and destroyed it.

In Persia is the city of SABA, from which the Three Magi set out when they went to worship
Jesus Christ; and in this city they are buried, in three very large and beautiful monuments,
side by side. And above them there is a square building, carefully kept. The bodies are still
entire, with the hair and beard remaining. One of these was called Jaspar, the second Melchior,
and the third Balthasar. Messer Marco Polo asked a great many questions of the people of that
city as to those Three Magi, but never one could he find that knew aught of the matter, except
that these were three kings who were buried there in days of old. However, at a place three
days' journey distant he heard of what I am going to tell you. He found a village there which
goes by the name of CALA ATAPERISTAN,[NOTE 1] which is as much as to say, "The Castle of the
Fire-worshippers." And the name is rightly applied, for the people there do worship fire, and
I will tell you why.

They relate that in old times three kings of that country went away to worship a Prophet that
was born, and they carried with them three manner of offerings, Gold, and Frankincense, and
Myrrh; in order to ascertain whether that Prophet were God, or an earthly King, or a Physician.
For, said they, if he take the Gold, then he is an earthly King; if he take the Incense he
is God; if he take the Myrrh he is a Physician.

So it came to pass when they had come to the place where the Child was born, the youngest of
the Three Kings went in first, and found the Child apparently just of his own age; so he went
forth again marvelling greatly. The middle one entered next, and like the first he found the
Child seemingly of his own age; so he also went forth again and marvelled greatly. Lastly,
the eldest went in, and as it had befallen the other two, so it befell him. And he went forth
very pensive. And when the three had rejoined one another, each told what he had seen; and
then they all marvelled the more. So they agreed to go in all three together, and on doing
so they beheld the Child with the appearance of its actual age, to wit, some thirteen days.[NOTE
2] Then they adored, and presented their Gold and Incense and Myrrh. And the Child took all
the three offerings, and then gave them a small closed box; whereupon the Kings departed to
return into their own land.

NOTE 1.--Kala' Atishparastán, meaning as in the text. (Marsden.)

NOTE 2.--According to the Collectanea ascribed to Bede, Melchior was a hoary old man; Balthazar
in his prime, with a beard; Gaspar young and beardless. (Inchofer, Tres Magi Evangelici, Romae,
1639.)

CHAPTER XIV.

WHAT BEFELL WHEN THE THREE KINGS RETURNED TO THEIR OWN COUNTRY.

And when they had ridden many days they said they would see what the Child had given them.
So they opened the little box, and inside it they found a stone. On seeing this they began
to wonder what this might be that the Child had given them, and what was the import thereof.
Now the signification was this: when they presented their offerings, the Child had accepted
all three, and when they saw that they had said within themselves that He was the True God,
and the True King, and the True Physician.[NOTE 1] And what the gift of the stone implied was
that this Faith which had begun in them should abide firm as a rock. For He well knew what
was in their thoughts. Howbeit, they had no understanding at all of this signification of the
gift of the stone; so they cast it into a well. Then straightway a fire from Heaven descended
into that well wherein the stone had been cast.

And when the Three Kings beheld this marvel they were sore amazed, and it greatly repented
them that they had cast away the stone; for well they then perceived that it had a great and
holy meaning. So they took of that fire, and carried it into their own country, and placed
it in a rich and beautiful church. And there the people keep it continually burning, and worship
it as a god, and all the sacrifices they offer are kindled with that fire. And if ever the
fire becomes extinct they go to other cities round about where the same faith is held, and
obtain of that fire from them, and carry it to the church. And this is the reason why the people
of this country worship fire. They will often go ten days' journey to get of that fire.[NOTE 2]

Such then was the story told by the people of that Castle to Messer Marco Polo; they declared
to him for a truth that such was their history, and that one of the three kings was of the
city called SABA, and the second of AVA, and the third of that very Castle where they still
worship fire, with the people of all the country round about.[NOTE 3]

Having related this story, I will now tell you of the different provinces of Persia, and their
peculiarities.

NOTE 1.--"Mire." This was in old French the popular word for a Leech; the politer word was
Physicien. (N. et E. V. 505.)

Chrysostom says that the Gold, Myrrh, and Frankincense were mystic gifts indicating King, Man,
God; and this interpretation was the usual one. Thus Prudentius:--

  "Regem, Deumque adnunciant
  Thesaurus et fragrans odor
  Thuris Sabaei, at myrrheus
  Pulvis sepulchrum praedocet." (Hymnus Epiphanius.)

And the Paris Liturgy:--

  "Offert Aurum Caritas,
  Et Myrrham Austeritas,
    Et Thus Desiderium.
  Auro Rex agnoscitur,
  Homo Myrrha, colitur
    Thure Deus gentium."

And in the "Hymns, Ancient and Modern":--

  "Sacred gifts of mystic meaning:
  Incense doth their God disclose,
  Gold the King of Kings proclaimeth,
    Myrrh His sepulchre foreshows."

NOTE 2.--"Feruntque (Magi), si justum est credi, etiam ignem caelitus iapsum apud se sempiternis
foculis custodire, cujus portionem exiguam, ut faustam praeisse quondam Asiaticis Regibus dicunt."
(Ammian. Marcell. XXIII. 6.)

NOTE 3.--Saba or Sava still exists as SÁVAH, about 50 miles S.W. of Tehrân. It is described
by Mr. Consul Abbott, who visited it in 1849, as the most ruinous town he had ever seen, and
as containing about 1000 families. The people retain a tradition, mentioned by Hamd Allah Mastaufi,
that the city stood on the shores of a Lake which dried up miraculously at the birth of Mahomed.
Sávah is said to have possessed one of the greatest Libraries in the East, until its destruction
by the Mongols on their first invasion of Persia. Both Sávah and Ávah (or Ábah) are mentioned
by Abulfeda as cities of Jibal. We are told that the two cities were always at loggerheads,
the former being Sunni and the latter Shiya. [We read in the Travels of Thévenot, a most intelligent
traveller, "qu'il n'a rien érit de l'ancienne ville de Sava qu'il trouva sur son chemin, et
où il a marqué lui-même que son esprit de curiosité l'abandonna." (Voyages, éd. 1727, vol.
v. p. 343. He died a few days after at Miana, in Armenia, 28th November, 1667). (MS. Note.--H. Y.)]

As regards the position of AVAH, Abbott says that a village still stands upon the site, about
16 miles S.S.E. of Sávah. He did not visit it, but took a bearing to it. He was told there
was a mound there on which formerly stood a Gueber Castle. At Sávah he could find no trace
of Marco Polo's legend. Chardin, in whose time Sávah was not quite so far gone to decay, heard
of an alleged tomb of Samuel, at 4 leagues from the city. This is alluded to by Hamd Allah.

Keith Johnston and Kiepert put Ávah some 60 miles W.N.W. of Sávah, on the road between Kazvin
and Hamadan. There seems to be some great mistake here.

Friar Odoric puts the locality of the Magi at Kashan, though one of the versions of Ramusio
and the Palatine MS. (see Cordier's Odoric, pp. xcv. and 41 of his Itinerary), perhaps corrected
in this, puts it at Saba--H. Y. and H. C.

We have no means of fixing the Kala' Atishparastán. It is probable, however, that the story
was picked up on the homeward journey, and as it seems to be implied that this castle was reached
three days after leaving Sávah, I should look for it between Sávah and Abher. Ruins to which
the name Kila'-i-Gabr, "Gueber Castle," attaches are common in Persia.

As regards the Legend itself, which shows such a curious mixture of Christian and Parsi elements,
it is related some 350 years earlier by Mas'údi: "In the Province of Fars they tell you of
a Well called the Well of Fire, near which there was a temple built. When the Messiah was born
the King Koresh sent three messengers to him, the first of whom carried a bag of Incense, the
second a bag of Myrrh, and the third a bag of Gold. They set out under the guidance of the
Star which the king had described to them, arrived in Syria, and found the Messiah with Mary
His Mother. This story of the three messengers is related by the Christians with sundry exaggerations;
it is also found in the Gospel. Thus they say that the Star appeared to Koresh at the moment
of Christ's birth; that it went on when the messengers went on, and stopped when they stopped.
More ample particulars will be found in our Historical Annals, where we have given the versions
of this legend as current among the Guebers and among the Christians. It will be seen that
Mary gave the king's messengers a round loaf, and this, after different adventures, they hid
under a rock in the province of Fars. The loaf disappeared underground, and there they dug
a well, on which they beheld two columns of fire to start up flaming at the surface; in short,
all the details of the legend will be found in our Annals." The Editors say that Mas'údi had
carried the story to Fars by mistaking Shíz in Azerbaiján (the Atropatenian Ecbatana of Sir
H. Rawlinson) for Shiraz. A rudiment of the same legend is contained in the Arabic Gospel of
the Infancy. This says that Mary gave the Magi one of the bands in which the Child was swathed.
On their return they cast this into their sacred fire; though wrapt in the flame it remained
unhurt.

We may add that there was a Christian tradition that the Star descended into a well between
Jerusalem and Bethlehem. Gregory of Tours also relates that in a certain well, at Bethlehem,
from which Mary had drawn water, the Star was sometimes seen, by devout pilgrims who looked
carefully for it, to pass from one side to the other. But only such as merited the boon could
see it.

(See Abbott in J. R. G. S. XXV. 4-6; Assemani, III. pt. 2, 750; Chardin, II. 407; N. et Ext.
II. 465; Dict. de la Perse, 2, 56, 298; Cathay, p. 51; Mas'udi, IV. 80; Greg. Turon. Libri
Miraculorum, Paris, 1858, I. 8.)

Several of the fancies that legend has attached to the brief story of the Magi in St. Matthew,
such as the royal dignity of the persons; their location, now in Arabia, now (as here) at Saba
in Persia, and again (as in Hayton and the Catalan Map) in Tarsia or Eastern Turkestan; the
notion that one of them was a Negro, and so on, probably grew out of the arbitrary application
of passages in the Old Testament, such as: "Venient legati ex Aegypto: AETHIOPIA praevenit
manus ejus Deo" (Ps. lxviii. 31). This produced the Negro who usually is painted as one of
the Three. "Reges THARSIS et Insulae munera offerent: Reges ARABUM et SABA dona adducent" (lxxii.
10). This made the Three into Kings, and fixed them in Tarsia, Arabia, and Sava. "Mundatio
Camelorum operiet te, dromedarii Madian et EPHA: omnes de SABA venient aurum et thus deferentes
et laudem Domino annunciantes" (Is. lx. 6). Here were Ava and Sava coupled, as well as the
gold and frankincense.

One form of the old Church Legend was that the Three were buried at Sessania Adrumetorum (Hadhramaut)
in Arabia, whence the Empress Helena had the bodies conveyed to Constantinople, [and later
to Milan in the time of the Emperor Manuel Comnenus. After the fall of Milan (1162), Frederic
Barbarossa gave them to Archbishop Rainald of Dassel (1159-1167), who carried them to Cologne
(23rd July, 1164).--H. C.]

The names given by Polo, Gaspar, Melchior, and Balthasar, have been accepted from an old date
by the Roman Church; but an abundant variety of other names has been assigned to them. Hyde
quotes a Syriac writer who calls them Aruphon, Hurmon, and Tachshesh, but says that some call
them Gudphorbus, Artachshasht, and Labudo; whilst in Persian they were termed Amad, Zad-Amad,
Drust-Amad, i.e. Venit, Cito Venit, Sincerus Venit. Some called them in Greek, Apellius, Amerus,
and Damascus, and in Hebrew, Magaloth, Galgalath, and Saracia, but otherwise Ator, Sator, and
Petatoros! The Armenian Church used the same names as the Roman, but in Chaldee they were Kaghba,
Badadilma, Badada Kharida. (Hyde, Rel. Vet. Pers. 382-383; Inchofer, ut supra; J. As. sér.
VI. IX. 160.)

[Just before going to press we have read Major Sykes' new book on Persia. We shall discuss
this question in the Introduction.--H. C.]

CHAPTER XV.

OF THE EIGHT KINGDOMS OF PERSIA, AND HOW THEY ARE NAMED.

Now you must know that Persia is a very great country, and contains eight kingdoms. I will
tell you the names of them all.

The first kingdom is that at the beginning of Persia, and it is called CASVIN; the second is
further to the south, and is called CURDISTAN; the third is LOR; the fourth [SUOLSTAN]; the
fifth ISTANIT; the sixth SERAZY; the seventh SONCARA; the eighth TUNOCAIN, which is at the
further extremity of Persia. All these kingdoms lie in a southerly direction except one, to
wit, Tunocain; that lies towards the east, and borders on the (country of the) Arbre Sol.[NOTE 1]

In this country of Persia there is a great supply of fine horses; and people take them to India
for sale, for they are horses of great price, a single one being worth as much of their money
as is equal to 200 livres Tournois; some will be more, some less, according to the quality.[NOTE
2] Here also are the finest asses in the world, one of them being worth full 30 marks of silver,
for they are very large and fast, and acquire a capital amble. Dealers carry their horses to
Kisi and Curmosa, two cities on the shores of the Sea of India, and there they meet with merchants
who take the horses on to India for sale.

In this country there are many cruel and murderous people, so that no day passes but there
is some homicide among them. Were it not for the Government, which is that of the Tartars of
the Levant, they would do great mischief to merchants; and indeed, maugre the Government, they
often succeed in doing such mischief. Unless merchants be well armed they run the risk of being
murdered, or at least robbed of everything; and it sometimes happens that a whole party perishes
in this way when not on their guard. The people are all Saracens, i.e. followers of the Law
of Mahommet.[NOTE 3]

In the cities there are traders and artizans who live by their labour and crafts, weaving cloths
of gold, and silk stuffs of sundry kinds. They have plenty of cotton produced in the country;
and abundance of wheat, barley, millet, panick, and wine, with fruits of all kinds.

[Some one may say, "But the Saracens don't drink wine, which is prohibited by their law." The
answer is that they gloss their text in this way, that if the wine be boiled, so that a part
is dissipated and the rest becomes sweet, they may drink without breach of the commandment;
for it is then no longer called wine, the name being changed with the change of flavour.[NOTE 4]]

NOTE 1.--The following appear to be Polo's Eight Kingdoms:--

I. KAZVÍN; then a flourishing city, though I know not why he calls it a kingdom. Persian 'Irák,
or the northern portion thereof, seems intended. Previous to Hulaku's invasion Kazvín seems
to have been in the hands of the Ismailites or Assassins.

II. KURDISTAN. I do not understand the difficulties of Marsden, followed by Lazari and Pauthier,
which lead them to put forth that Kurdistan is not Kurdistan but something else. The boundaries
of Kurdistan according to Hamd Allah were Arabian 'Irak, Khuzistán, Persian 'Irak, Azerbaijan
and Diarbekr. (Dict. de la P. 480.) [Cf. Curzon, Persia pass.--H. C.] Persian Kurdistan, in
modern as in mediaeval times, extends south beyond Kermanshah to the immediate border of Polo's
next kingdom, viz.:

III. LÚR or Lúristán. [On Lúristán, see Curzon, Persia, II. pp. 273-303, with the pedigree
of the Ruling Family of the Feili Lurs (Pusht-i-Kuh), p. 278.--H. C.] This was divided into
two principalities, Great Lúr and Little Lúr, distinctions still existing. The former was ruled
by a Dynasty called the Faslúyah Atabegs, which endured from about 1155 to 1424, [when it was
destroyed by the Timurids; it was a Kurd Dynasty, founded by Emad ed-din Abu Thaher (1160-1228),
and the last prince of which was Ghiyas ed-din (1424). In 1258 the general Kitubuka (Hulagu's
Exp. to Persia, Bretschneider, Med. Res. I. p. 121) is reported to have reduced the country
of Lúr or Lúristán and its Atabeg Teghele.--H. C.]. Their territory lay in the mountainous
district immediately west of Ispahan, and extended to the River of Dizfúl, which parted it
from Little Lúr. The stronghold of the Atabegs was the extraordinary hill fort of Mungasht,
and they had a residence also at Aidhej or Mal-Amir in the mountains south of Shushan, where
Ibn Batuta visited the reigning Prince in 1327. Sir H. Rawlinson has described Mungasht, and
Mr. Layard and Baron de Bode have visited other parts, but the country is still very imperfectly
known. Little Lúristán lay west of the R. Dizfúl, extending nearly to the Plain of Babylonia.
Its Dynasty, called Kurshid, [was founded in 1184 by the Kurd Shodja ed-din Khurshid, and existed
till Shah-Werdy lost his throne in 1593.--H. C.].

The Lúrs are akin to the Kurds, and speak a Kurd dialect, as do all those Ilyáts, or nomads
of Persia, who are not of Turkish race. They were noted in the Middle Ages for their agility
and their dexterity in thieving. The tribes of Little Lúr "do not affect the slightest veneration
for Mahomed or the Koran; their only general object of worship is their great Saint Baba Buzurg,"
and particular disciples regard with reverence little short of adoration holy men looked on
as living representatives of the Divinity. (Ilchan. I. 70 seqq.; Rawlinson in J. R. G. S. IX.;
Layard in Do. XVI. 75, 94; Ld. Strangford in J. R. A. S. XX. 64; N. et E. XIII. i. 330, I.
B. II. 31; D'Ohsson, IV. 171-172.)

IV. SHÚLISTÁN, best represented by Ramusio's Suolstan, whilst the old French texts have Cielstan
(i.e. Shelstán); the name applied to the country of the Shúls, or Shauls, a people who long
occupied a part of Lúristán, but were expelled by the Lúrs in the 12th century, and settled
in the country between Shíráz and Khuzistán (now that of the Mamaseni, whom Colonel Pelly's
information identifies with the Shúls), their central points being Naobanján and the fortress
called Kala' Safed or "White Castle." Ibn Batuta, going from Shiraz to Kazerun, encamped the
first day in the country of the Shúls, "a Persian desert tribe which includes some pious persons."
(Q. R. p. 385; N. et E. XIII. i. 332-333; Ilch. I. 71; J. R. G. S. XIII. Map; I. B. II. 88.)
["Adjoining the Kuhgelus on the East are the tents of the Mamasenni (qy. Mohammed Huseini)
Lúrs, occupying the country still known as Shúlistán, and extending as far east and south-east
as Fars and the Plain of Kazerun. This tribe prides itself on its origin, claiming to have
come from Seistán, and to be directly descended from Rustam, whose name is still borne by one
of the Mamasenni clans." (Curzon, Persia, II. p. 318.)--H. C.]

V. ISPAHAN? The name is in Ramusio Spaan, showing at least that he or some one before him had
made this identification. The unusual combination ff, i.e. sf, in manuscript would be so like
the frequent one ft, i.e. st, that the change from Isfan to Istan would be easy. But why Istanit?

VI. SHÍRÁZ [(Shir = milk, or Shir = lion)--H. C.] representing the province of Fars or Persia
Proper, of which it has been for ages the chief city. [It was founded after the Arab conquest
in 694 A.D., by Mohammed, son of Yusuf Kekfi. (Curzon, Persia, II. pp. 93-110.)--H. C.] The
last Dynasty that had reigned in Fars was that of the Salghur Atabegs, founded about the middle
of the 12th century. Under Abubakr (1226-1260) this kingdom attained considerable power, embracing
Fars, Kermán, the islands of the Gulf and its Arabian shores; and Shíráz then flourished in
arts and literature; Abubakr was the patron of Saadi. From about 1262, though a Salghurian
princess, married to a son of Hulaku, had the nominal title of Atabeg, the province of Fars
was under Mongol administration. (Ilch. passim.)

VII. SHAWÁNKÁRA or Shabánkára. The G. T. has Soucara, but the Crusca gives the true reading
Soncara. It is the country of the Shawánkárs, a people coupled with the Shúls and Lúrs in mediaeval
Persian history, and like them of Kurd affinities. Their princes, of a family Faslúyah, are
spoken of as influential before the Mahomedan conquest, but the name of the people comes prominently
forward only during the Mongol era of Persian history. [Shabánkára was taken in 1056 from the
Buyid Dynasty, who ruled from the 10th century over a great part of Persia, by Fazl ibn Hassan
(Fazluïeh-Hasunïeh). Under the last sovereign, Ardeshir, Shabánkára was taken in 1355 by the
Modhafferians, who reigned in Irak, Fars, and Kermán, one of the Dynasties established at the
expense of the Mongol Ilkhans after the death of Abu Saïd (1335), and were themselves subjugated
by Timur in 1392.--H. C.] Their country lay to the south of the great salt lake east of Shíráz,
and included Niriz and Darábjird, Fassa, Forg, and Tárum. Their capital was I/g or I/j, called
also Irej, about 20 miles north-west of Daráb, with a great mountain fortress; it was taken
by Hulaku in 1259. The son of the prince was continued in nominal authority, with Mongol administrators.
In consequence of a rebellion in 1311 the Dynasty seems to have been extinguished. A descendant
attempted to revive their authority about the middle of the same century. The latest historical
mention of the name that I have found is in Abdurrazzák's History of Shah Rukh, under the year
H. 807 (1404). (See Jour. As. 3d. s. vol. ii. 355.) But a note by Colonel Pelly informs me
that the name Shabánkára is still applied (1) to the district round the towns of Runiz and
Gauristan near Bandar Abbas; (2) to a village near Maiman, in the old country of the tribe;
(3) to a tribe and district of Dashtistan, 38 farsakhs west of Shíráz.

With reference to the form in the text, Soncara, I may notice that in two passages of the Masálak-ul-Absár,
translated by Quatremère, the name occurs as Shankárah. (Q. R. pp. 380, 440 seqq.; N. et E.
XIII.; Ilch. I. 71 and passim; Ouseley's Travels, II. 158 seqq.)

VIII. TÚN-O-KÂIN, the eastern Kuhistán or Hill country of Persia, of which Tún and Káin are
chief cities. The practice of indicating a locality by combining two names in this way is common
in the East. Elsewhere in this book we find Ariora-Keshemur and Kes-macoran (Kij-Makrán). Upper
Sind is often called in India by the Sepoys Rori-Bakkar, from two adjoining places on the Indus;
whilst in former days, Lower Sind was often called Diul-Sind. Karra-Mánikpúr, Uch-Multán, Kunduz-Baghlán
are other examples.

The exact expression Tún-o-Káin for the province here in question is used by Baber, and evidently
also by some of Hammer's authorities. (Baber, pp. 201, 204; see Ilch. II. 190; I. 95, 104,
and Hist. de l'Ordre des Assassins, p. 245.)

[We learn from (Sir) C. Macgregor's (1875) Journey through Khorasan (I. p. 127) that the same
territory including Gháín or Kaïn is now called by the analogous name of Tabas-o-Tún. Tún and
Kaïn (Gháín) are both described in their modern state, by Macgregor. (Ibid. pp. 147 and 161.)--H.
C.]

Note that the identification of Suolstan is due to Quatremère (see N. et E. XIII. i. circa
p. 332); that of Soncara to Defréméry (J. As. sér. IV. tom. xi. p. 441); and that of Tunocain
to Malte-Brun. (N. Ann. des V. xviii. p. 261.) I may add that the Lúrs, the Shúls, and the
Shabánkáras are the subjects of three successive sections in the Masálak-al-Absár of Shihábuddin
Dimishki, a work which reflects much of Polo's geography. (See N. et E. XIII. i. 330-333; Curzon,
Persia, II. pp. 248 and 251.)

NOTE 2.--The horses exported to India, of which we shall hear more hereafter, were probably
the same class of "Gulf Arabs" that are now carried thither. But the Turkman horses of Persia
are also very valuable, especially for endurance. Kinneir speaks of one accomplishing 900 miles
in eleven days, and Ferrier states a still more extraordinary feat from his own knowledge.
In that case one of those horses went from Tehran to Tabriz, returned, and went again to Tabriz,
within twelve days, including two days' rest. The total distance is about 1100 miles.

The livre tournois at this period was equivalent to a little over 18 francs of modern French
silver. But in bringing the value to our modern gold standard we must add one-third, as the
ratio of silver to gold was then 1:12 instead of 1:16. Hence the equivalent in gold of the
livre tournois is very little less than 1l. sterling, and the price of the horse would be about
193l.[1]

Mr. Wright quotes an ordinance of Philip III. of France (1270-1285) fixing the maximum price
that might be given for a palfrey at 60 livres tournois, and for a squire's roncin at 20 livres.
Joinville, however, speaks of a couple of horses presented to St. Lewis in 1254 by the Abbot
of Cluny, which he says would at the time of his writing (1309) have been worth 500 livres
(the pair, it would seem). Hence it may be concluded in a general way that the ordinary price
of imported horses in India approached that of the highest class of horses in Europe. (Hist.
of Dom. Manners, p. 317; Joinville, p. 205.)

About 1850 a very fair Arab could be purchased in Bombay for 60l., or even less; but prices
are much higher now.

With regard to the donkeys, according to Tavernier, the fine ones used by merchants in Persia
were imported from Arabia. The mark of silver was equivalent to about 44s. of our silver money,
and allowing as before for the lower relative value of gold, 30 marks would be equivalent to
88l. sterling.

Kisi or Kish we have already heard of. Curmosa is Hormuz, of which we shall hear more. With
a Pisan, as Rusticiano was, the sound of c is purely and strongly aspirate. Giovanni d'Empoli,
in the beginning of the 16th century, another Tuscan, also calls it Cormus. (See Archiv. Stor.
Ital. Append. III. 81.)

NOTE 3.--The character of the nomad and semi-nomad tribes of Persia in those days--Kurds, Lúrs,
Shúls, Karaunahs, etc.--probably deserved all that Polo says, and it is not changed now. Take
as an example Rawlinson's account of the Bakhtyáris of Luristán: "I believe them to be individually
brave, but of a cruel and savage character; they pursue their blood feuds with the most inveterate
and exterminating spirit.... It is proverbial in Persia that the Bakhtiyaris have been compelled
to forego altogether the reading of the Fatihah or prayer for the dead, for otherwise they
would have no other occupation. They are also most dextrous and notorious thieves." (J. R.
G. S. IX. 105.)

NOTE 4.--The Persians have always been lax in regard to the abstinence from wine.

According to Athenaeus, Aristotle, in his Treatise on Drinking (a work lost, I imagine, to
posterity), says, "If the wine be moderately boiled it is less apt to intoxicate." In the preparation
of some of the sweet wines of the Levant, such as that of Cyprus, the must is boiled, but I
believe this is not the case generally in the East. Baber notices it as a peculiarity among
the Kafirs of the Hindu Kush. Tavernier, however, says that at Shíráz, besides the wine for
which that city was so celebrated, a good deal of boiled wine was manufactured, and used among
the poor and by travellers. No doubt what is meant is the sweet liquor or syrup called Dúsháb,
which Della Valle says is just the Italian Mostocotto, but better, clearer, and not so mawkish
(I. 689). (Yonge's Athen. X. 34; Baber, p. 145; Tavernier, Bk. V. ch. xxi.)

[1] The Encyc. Britann., article "Money," gives the livre tournois of
    this period as 18.17 francs. A French paper in Notes and Queries
    (4th S. IV. 485) gives it under St. Lewis and Philip III. as
    equivalent to 18.24 fr., and under Philip IV. to 17.95. And lastly,
    experiment at the British Museum, made by the kind intervention of my
    friend, Mr. E. Thomas, F.R.S., gave the weights of the sols of St.
    Lewis (1226-1270) and Philip IV. (1285-1314) respectively as 63 grains
    and 61-1/2 grains of remarkably pure silver. These trials would give
    the livres (20 sols) as equivalent to 18.14 fr. and 17.70 fr.
    respectively.

CHAPTER XVI.

CONCERNING THE GREAT CITY OF YASDI.

Yasdi also is properly in Persia; it is a good and noble city, and has a great amount of trade.
They weave there quantities of a certain silk tissue known as Yasdi, which merchants carry
into many quarters to dispose of. The people are worshippers of Mahommet.[NOTE 1]

When you leave this city to travel further, you ride for seven days over great plains, finding
harbour to receive you at three places only. There are many fine woods [producing dates] upon
the way, such as one can easily ride through; and in them there is great sport to be had in
hunting and hawking, there being partridges and quails and abundance of other game, so that
the merchants who pass that way have plenty of diversion. There are also wild asses, handsome
creatures. At the end of those seven marches over the plain you come to a fine kingdom which
is called Kerman.[NOTE 2]

NOTE 1.--YEZD, an ancient city, supposed by D'Anville to be the Isatichae of Ptolemy, is not
called by Marco a kingdom, though having a better title to the distinction than some which
he classes as such. The atabegs of Yezd dated from the middle of the 11th century, and their
Dynasty was permitted by the Mongols to continue till the end of the 13th, when it was extinguished
by Ghazan, and the administration made over to the Mongol Diwan.

Yezd, in pre-Mahomedan times, was a great sanctuary of the Gueber worship, though now it is
a seat of fanatical Mahomedanism. It is, however, one of the few places where the old religion
lingers. In 1859 there were reckoned 850 families of Guebers in Yezd and fifteen adjoining
villages, but they diminish rapidly.

[Heyd (Com. du Levant, II. p. 109) says the inhabitants of Yezd wove the finest silk of Taberistan.--H.
C.] The silk manufactures still continue, and, with other weaving, employ a large part of the
population. The Yazdi, which Polo mentions, finds a place in the Persian dictionaries, and
is spoken of by D'Herbelot as Kumásh-i-Yezdi, "Yezd stuff." ["He [Nadir Shah] bestowed upon
the ambassador [Hakeem Ataleek, the prime minister of Abulfiez Khan, King of Bokhara] a donation
of a thousand mohurs of Hindostan, twenty-five pieces of Yezdy brocade, a rich dress, and a
horse with silver harness...." (Memoirs of Khojah Abdulkurreem, a Cashmerian of distinction
... transl. from the original Persian, by Francis Gladwin ... Calcutta, 1788, 8vo, p. 36.)--H. C.]

Yezd is still a place of important trade, and carries on a thriving commerce with India by
Bandar Abbási. A visitor in the end of 1865 says: "The external trade appears to be very considerable,
and the merchants of Yezd are reputed to be amongst the most enterprising and respectable of
their class in Persia. Some of their agents have lately gone, not only to Bombay, but to the
Mauritius, Java, and China."

(Ilch. I. 67-68; Khanikoff, Mém. p. 202; Report by Major R. M. Smith, R.E.)

Friar Odoric, who visited Yezd, calls it the third best city of the Persian Emperor, and says
(Cathay, I. p. 52): "There is very great store of victuals and all other good things that you
can mention; but especially is found there great plenty of figs; and raisins also, green as
grass and very small, are found there in richer profusion than in any other part of the world."
[He also gives from the smaller version of Ramusio's an awful description of the Sea of Sand,
one day distant from Yezd. (Cf. Tavernier, 1679, I. p. 116.)--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--I believe Della Valle correctly generalises when he says of Persian travelling that
"you always travel in a plain, but you always have mountains on either hand" (I. 462). [Compare
Macgregor, I. 254: "I really cannot describe the road. Every road in Persia as yet seems to
me to be exactly alike, so ... my readers will take it for granted that the road went over
a waste, with barren rugged hills in the distance, or near; no water, no houses, no people
passed."--H. C.] The distance from Yezd to Kermán is, according to Khanikoff's survey, 314
kilomètres, or about 195 miles. Ramusio makes the time eight days, which is probably the better
reading, giving a little over 24 miles a day. Westergaard in 1844, and Khanikoff in 1859, took
ten days; Colonel Goldsmid and Major Smith in 1865 twelve. ["The distance from Yezd to Kermán
by the present high road, 229 miles, is by caravans, generally made in nine stages; persons
travelling with all comforts do it in twelve stages; travellers whose time is of some value
do it easily in seven days." (Houtum-Schindler, l.c. pp. 490-491.)--H. C.]

Khanikoff observes on this chapter: "This notice of woods easy to ride through, covering the
plain of Yezd, is very curious. Now you find it a plain of great extent indeed from N.W. to
S.E., but narrow and arid; indeed I saw in it only thirteen inhabited spots, counting two caravanserais.
Water for the inhabitants is brought from a great distance by subterraneous conduits, a practice
which may have tended to desiccate the soil, for every trace of wood has completely disappeared."

Abbott travelled from Yezd to Kermán in 1849, by a road through Báfk, east of the usual road,
which Khanikoff followed, and parallel to it; and it is worthy of note that he found circumstances
more accordant with Marco's description. Before getting to Báfk he says of the plain that it
"extends to a great distance north and south, and is probably 20 miles in breadth;" whilst
Báfk "is remarkable for its groves of date-trees, in the midst of which it stands, and which
occupy a considerable space." Further on he speaks of "wild tufts and bushes growing abundantly,"
and then of "thickets of the Ghez tree." He heard of the wild asses, but did not see any. In
his report to the Foreign Office, alluding to Marco Polo's account, he says: "It is still true
that wild asses and other game are found in the wooded spots on the road." The ass is the Asinus
Onager, the Gor Khar of Persia, or Kulan of the Tartars. (Khan. Mém. p. 200; Id. sur Marco
Polo, p. 21; J. R. G. S. XXV. 20-29; Mr. Abbott's MS. Report in Foreign office.) [The difficulty
has now been explained by General Houtum-Schindler in a valuable paper published in the Jour.
Roy. As. Soc. N.S. XIII., October, 1881, p. 490. He says: "Marco Polo travelled from Yazd to
Kermán viâ Báfk. His description of the road, seven days over great plains, harbour at three
places only, is perfectly exact. The fine woods, producing dates, are at Báfk itself. (The
place is generally called Báft.) Partridges and quails still abound; wild asses I saw several
on the western road, and I was told that there were a great many on the Báfk road. Travellers
and caravans now always go by the eastern road viâ Anár and Bahrámábád. Before the Sefavíehs
(i.e. before A.D. 1500) the Anár road was hardly, if ever, used; travellers always took the
Báfk road. The country from Yazd to Anár, 97 miles, seems to have been totally uninhabited
before the Sefavíehs. Anár, as late as A.D. 1340, is mentioned as the frontier place of Kermán
to the north, on the confines of the Yazd desert. When Sháh Abbás had caravanserais built at
three places between Yazd and Anár (Zein ud-dín, Kermán-sháhán, and Shamsh), the eastern road
began to be neglected." (Cf. Major Sykes' Persia, ch. xxiii.)--H. C.]

CHAPTER XVII.

CONCERNING THE KINGDOM OF KERMAN.

Kerman is a kingdom which is also properly in Persia, and formerly it had a hereditary prince.
Since the Tartars conquered the country the rule is no longer hereditary, but the Tartar sends
to administer whatever lord he pleases.[NOTE 1] In this kingdom are produced the stones called
turquoises in great abundance; they are found in the mountains, where they are extracted from
the rocks.[NOTE 2] There are also plenty of veins of steel and Ondanique.[NOTE 3] The people
are very skilful in making harness of war; their saddles, bridles, spurs, swords, bows, quivers,
and arms of every kind, are very well made indeed according to the fashion of those parts.
The ladies of the country and their daughters also produce exquisite needlework in the embroidery
of silk stuffs in different colours, with figures of beasts and birds, trees and flowers, and
a variety of other patterns. They work hangings for the use of noblemen so deftly that they
are marvels to see, as well as cushions, pillows quilts, and all sorts of things.[NOTE 4]

In the mountains of Kerman are found the best falcons in the world. They are inferior in size
to the Peregrine, red on the breast, under the neck, and between the thighs; their flight so
swift that no bird can escape them.[NOTE 5]

On quitting the city you ride on for seven days, always finding towns, villages, and handsome
dwelling-houses, so that it is very pleasant travelling; and there is excellent sport also
to be had by the way in hunting and hawking. When you have ridden those seven days over a plain
country, you come to a great mountain; and when you have got to the top of the pass you find
a great descent which occupies some two days to go down. All along you find a variety and abundance
of fruits; and in former days there were plenty of inhabited places on the road, but now there
are none; and you meet with only a few people looking after their cattle at pasture. From the
city of Kerman to this descent the cold in winter is so great that you can scarcely abide it,
even with a great quantity of clothing.[NOTE 6]

NOTE 1.--Kermán is mentioned by Ptolemy, and also by Ammianus amongst the cities of the country
so called (Carmania): "inter quas nitet Carmana omnium mater." (XXIII. 6.)

M. Pauthier's supposition that Sirján was in Polo's time the capital, is incorrect. (See N.
et E. XIV. 208, 290.) Our Author's Kermán is the city still so called; and its proper name
would seem to have been Kuwáshír. (See Reinaud, Mém. sur l'Inde, 171; also Sprenger P. and
R. R. 77.) According to Khanikoff it is 5535 feet above the sea.

Kermán, on the fall of the Beni Búya Dynasty, in the middle of the 11th century, came into
the hands of a branch of the Seljukian Turks, who retained it till the conquests of the Kings
of Khwarizm, which just preceded the Mongol invasion. In 1226 the Amir Borák, a Kara Khitaian,
who was governor on behalf of Jaláluddin of Khwarizm, became independent under the title of
Kutlugh Sultan. [He died in 1234.] The Mongols allowed this family to retain the immediate
authority, and at the time when Polo returned from China the representative of the house was
a lady known as the Pádishah Khátún [who reigned from 1291], the wife successively of the Ilkhans
Abaka and Kaikhatu; an ambitious, clever, and masterful woman, who put her own brother Siyurgutmish
to death as a rival, and was herself, after the decease of Kaikhatu, put to death by her brother's
widow and daughter [1294]. The Dynasty continued, nominally at least, to the reign of the Ilkhan
Khodabanda (1304-13), when it was extinguished. [See Major Sykes' Persia, chaps, v. and xxiii.]

Kermán was a Nestorian see, under the Metropolitan of Fars. (Ilch. passim; Weil, III. 454;
Lequien, II. 1256.)

["There is some confusion with regard to the names of Kermán both as a town and as a province
or kingdom. We have the names Kermán, Kuwáshír, Bardshír. I should say the original name of
the whole country was Kermán, the ancient Karamania. A province of this was called Kúreh-i-Ardeshír,
which, being contracted, became Kuwáshír, and is spoken of as the province in which Ardeshír
Bábekán, the first Sassanian monarch, resided. A part of Kúreh-i-Ardeshír was called Bardshír,
or Bard-i-Ardeshír, now occasionally Bardsír, and the present city of Kermán was situated at
its north-eastern corner. This town, during the Middle Ages, was called Bardshír. On a coin
of Qara Arslán Beg, King of Kermán, of A.H. 462, Mr. Stanley Lane Poole reads Yazdashír instead
of Bardshír. Of Al Idrísí's Yazdashír I see no mention in histories; Bardshír was the capital
and the place where most of the coins were struck. Yazdashír, if such a place existed, can
only have been a place of small importance. It is, perhaps, a clerical error for Bardshír;
without diacritical points, both words are written alike. Later, the name of the city became
Kermán, the name Bardshír reverting to the district lying south-west of it, with its principal
place Mashíz. In a similar manner Mashíz was often, and is so now, called Bardshír. Another
old town sometimes confused with Bardshír was Sírján or Shírján, once more important than Bardshír;
it is spoken of as the capital of Kermán, of Bardshír, and of Sardsír. Its name now exists
only as that of a district, with principal place S'aídábád. The history of Kermán, 'Agd-ul-'Olá,
plainly says Bardshír is the capital of Kermán, and from the description of Bardshír there
is no doubt of its having been the present town Kermán. It is strange that Marco Polo does
not give the name of the city. In Assemanni's Bibliotheca Orientalis Kuwáshír and Bardashír
are mentioned as separate cities, the latter being probably the old Mashíz, which as early
as A.H. 582 (A.D. 1186) is spoken of in the History of Kermán as an important town. The Nestorian
bishop of the province Kermán, who stood under the Metropolitan of Fars, resided at Hormúz."
(Houtum-Schindler, l.c. pp. 491-492.)

There does not seem any doubt as to the identity of Bardashir with the present city of Kermán.
R. As. Soc. April, 1901, pp. 281, 290.) Hamd-Allah is the author of the Cosmography known as
the Nuzhat-al-Kulub or "Heart's Delight." (Cf. Major Sykes' Persia, chap. xvi., and the Geographical
Journal for February, 1902, p. 166.)--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--A MS. treatise on precious stones cited by Ouseley mentions Shebavek in Kermán as
the site of a Turquoise mine. This is probably Shahr-i-Babek, about 100 miles west of the city
of Kermán, and not far from Párez, where Abbott tells us there is a mine of these stones, now
abandoned. Goebel, one of Khanikoff's party, found a deposit of turquoises at Taft, near Yezd.
(Ouseley's Travels, I. 211; J. R. G. S. XXVI. 63-65; Khan. Mém. 203.)

["The province Kermán is still rich in turquoises. The mines of Páríz or Párez are at Chemen-i-mó-aspán,
16 miles from Páríz on the road to Bahrámábád (principal place of Rafsinján), and opposite
the village or garden called Gód-i-Ahmer. These mines were worked up to a few years ago; the
turquoises were of a pale blue. Other turquoises are found in the present Bardshír plain, and
not far from Mashíz, on the slopes of the Chehel tan mountain, opposite a hill called the Bear
Hill (tal-i-Khers). The Shehr-i-Bábek turquoise mines are at the small village Kárík, a mile
from Medvár-i-Bálá, 10 miles north of Shehr-i-Bábek. They have two shafts, one of which has
lately been closed by an earthquake, and were worked up to about twenty years ago. At another
place, 12 miles from Shehr-i-Bábek, are seven old shafts now not worked for a long period.
The stones of these mines are also of a very pale blue, and have no great value." (Houtum-Schindler,
l.c. 1881, p. 491.)

The finest turquoises came from Khorasan; the mines were near Maaden, about 48 miles to the
north of Nishapür. (Heyd, Com. du Levant, II. p. 653; Ritter, Erdk. pp. 325-330.)

It is noticeable that Polo does not mention indigo at Kermán.--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--Edrisi says that excellent iron was produced in the "cold mountains" N.W. of Jiruft,
i.e. somewhere south of the capital; and Jihán Numá, or Great Turkish Geography, that the steel
mines of Niriz, on the borders of Kermán, were famous. These are also spoken of by Teixeira.
Major St. John enables me to indicate their position, in the hills east of Niriz. (Edrisi,
vol. i. p. 430; Hammer, Mém. lur la Perse, p. 275; Teixeira, Relaciones, p. 378; and see Map
of Itineraries, No. II.)

["Marco Polo's steel mines are probably the Parpa iron mines on the road from Kermán to Shíráz,
called even to-day M'aden-i-fúlád (steel mine); they are not worked now. Old Kermán weapons,
daggers, swords, old stirrups, etc., made of steel, are really beautiful, and justify Marco
Polo's praise of them" (Houtum-Schindler, l.c. p. 491)--H. C.]

Ondanique of the Geog. Text, Andaine of Pauthier's, Andanicum of the Latin, is an expression
on which no light has been thrown since Ramusio's time. The latter often asked the Persian
merchants who visited Venice, and they all agreed in stating that it was a sort of steel of
such surpassing value and excellence, that in the days of yore a man who possessed a mirror,
or sword, of Andanic regarded it as he would some precious jewel. This seems to me excellent
evidence, and to give the true clue to the meaning of Ondanique. I have retained the latter
form because it points most distinctly to what I believe to be the real word, viz. Hundwáníy,
"Indian Steel."[1] (See Johnson's Pers. Dict. and De Sacy's Chrestomathie Arabe, II. 148.)
In the Vocabulista Arabico, of about A.D. 1200 (Florence, 1871, p. 211), Hunduwán is explained
by Ensis. Vüllers explains Hundwán as "anything peculiar to India, especially swords," and
quotes from Firdúsi, "Khanjar-i-Hundwán," a hanger of Indian steel.

The like expression appears in the quotation from Edrisi below as Hindiah, and found its way
into Spanish in the shapes of Alhinde, Alfinde, Alinde, first with the meaning of steel, then
assuming, that of steel mirror, and finally that of metallic foil of a glass mirror. (See Dozy
and Engelmann, 2d ed. pp. 144-145.) Hint or Al-hint is used in Berber also for steel. (See
J. R. A. S. IX. 255.)

The sword-blades of India had a great fame over the East, and Indian steel, according to esteemed
authorities, continued to be imported into Persia till days quite recent. Its fame goes back
to very old times. Ctesias mentions two wonderful swords of such material that he got from
the king of Persia and his mother. It is perhaps the ferrum candidum of which the Malli and
Oxydracae sent a 100 talents weight as a present to Alexander.[2] Indian Iron and Steel ([Greek:
sídaeros Indikòs kaì stómoma]) are mentioned in the Periplus as imports into the Abyssinian
ports. Ferrum Indicum appears (at least according to one reading) among the Oriental species
subject to duty in the Law of Marcus Aurelius and Commodus on that matter. Salmasius notes
that among surviving Greek chemical treatises there was one [Greek: perì baphaes Indikou sidaérou],
"On the Tempering of Indian Steel." Edrisi says on this subject: "The Hindus excel in the manufacture
of iron, and in the preparation of those ingredients along with which it is fused to obtain
that kind of soft Iron which is usually styled Indian Steel (HINDIAH).[3] They also have workshops
wherein are forged the most famous sabres in the world.... It is impossible to find anything
to surpass the edge that you get from Indian Steel (al-hadíd al-Hindí)."

Allusions to the famous sword-blades of India would seem to be frequent in Arabic literature.
Several will be found in Hamása's collection of ancient Arabic poems translated by Freytag.
The old commentator on one of these passages says: "Ut optimos gladios significet ... Indicos
esse dixit," and here the word used in the original is Hundwániyah. In Manger's version of
Arabshah's Life of Timur are several allusions of the same kind; one, a quotation from Antar,
recalls the ferrum candidum of Curtius:

  "Albi (gladii) Indici meo in sanguine abluuntur."

In the histories, even of the Mahomedan conquest of India, the Hindu infidels are sent to Jihannam
with "the well-watered blade of the Hindi sword"; or the sword is personified as "a Hindu of
good family." Coming down to later days, Chardin says of the steel of Persia: "They combine
it with Indian steel, which is more tractable ... and is much more esteemed." Dupré, at the
beginning of this century, tells us: "I used to believe ... that the steel for the famous Persian
sabres came from certain mines in Khorasan. But according to all the information I have obtained,
I can assert that no mine of steel exists in that province. What is used for these blades comes
in the shape of disks from Lahore." Pottinger names steel among the imports into Kermán from
India. Elphinstone the Accurate, in his Caubul, confirms Dupré: "Indian Steel [in Afghanistan]
is most prized for the material; but the best swords are made in Persia and in Syria;" and
in his History of India, he repeats: "The steel of India was in request with the ancients;
it is celebrated in the oldest Persian poem, and is still the material of the scimitars of
Khorasan and Damascus."[4]

Klaproth, in his Asia Polyglotta, gives Andun as the Ossetish and Andan as the Wotiak, for
Steel. Possibly these are essentially the same with Hundwáníy and Alhinde, pointing to India
as the original source of supply. [In the Sikandar Nama, e Bará (or "Book of Alexander the
Great," written A.D. 1200, by Abu Muhammad bin Yusuf bin Mu, Ayyid-i-Nizamu-'d-Din), translated
by Captain H. Wilberforce Clarke (Lond., 1881, large 8vo), steel is frequently mentioned: Canto
xix. 257, p. 202; xx. 12, p. 211; xlv. 38, p. 567; lviii. 32, pp. 695, 42, pp. 697, 62, 66,
pp. 699; lix. 28, p. 703.--H. C.]

Avicenna, in his fifth book De Animâ, according to Roger Bacon, distinguishes three very different
species of iron: "1st. Iron which is good for striking or bearing heavy strokes, and for being
forged by hammer and fire, but not for cutting-tools. Of this hammers and anvils are made,
and this is what we commonly call Iron simply. 2nd. That which is purer, has more heat in it,
and is better adapted to take an edge and to form cutting-tools, but is not so malleable, viz.
Steel. And the 3rd is that which is called ANDENA. This is less known among the Latin nations.
Its special character is that like silver it is malleable and ductile under a very low degree
of heat. In other properties it is intermediate between iron and steel." (Fr. R. Baconis Opera
Inedita, 1859, pp. 382-383.) The same passage, apparently, of Avicenna is quoted by Vincent
of Beauvais, but with considerable differences. (See Speculum Naturale, VII. ch. lii. lx.,
and Specul. Doctrinale, XV. ch. lxiii.) The latter author writes Alidena, and I have not been
able to refer to Avicenna, so that I am doubtful whether his Andena is the same term with the
Andaine of Pauthier and our Ondanique.

The popular view, at least in the Middle Ages, seems to have regarded Steel as a distinct natural
species, the product of a necessarily different ore, from iron; and some such view is, I suspect,
still common in the East. An old Indian officer told me of the reply of a native friend to
whom he had tried to explain the conversion of iron into steel--"What! You would have me believe
that if I put an ass into the furnace it will come forth a horse." And Indian Steel again seems
to have been regarded as a distinct natural species from ordinary steel. It is in fact made
by a peculiar but simple process, by which the iron is converted directly into cast-steel,
without passing through any intermediate stage analogous to that of blister-steel. When specimens
were first examined in England, chemists concluded that the steel was made direct from the
ore. The Ondanique of Marco no doubt was a fine steel resembling the Indian article. (Müller's
Ctesias, p. 80; Curtius, IX. 24; Müller's Geog. Gr. Min. I. 262; Digest. Novum, Lugd. 1551,
Lib. XXXIX. Tit. 4; Salmas. Ex. Plinian. II. 763; Edrisi, I. 65-66; J. R. S. A. A. 387 seqq.;
Hamasae Carmina, I. 526; Elliot, II. 209, 394; Reynolds's Utbi, p. 216.)

NOTE 4.--Paulus Jovius in the 16th century says, I know not on what authority, that Kermán
was then celebrated for the fine temper of its steel in scimitars and lance-points. These were
eagerly bought at high prices by the Turks, and their quality was such that one blow of a Kermán
sabre would cleave an European helmet without turning the edge. And I see that the phrase,
"Kermání blade" is used in poetry by Marco's contemporary Amír Khusrú of Delhi. (P. Jov. Hist.
of his own Time, Bk. XIV.; Elliot, III. 537.)

There is, or was in Pottinger's time, still a great manufacture of matchlocks at Kerman; but
rose-water, shawls, and carpets are the staples of the place now. Polo says nothing that points
to shawl-making, but it would seem from Edrisi that some such manufacture already existed in
the adjoining district of Bamm. It is possible that the "hangings" spoken of by Polo may refer
to the carpets. I have seen a genuine Kermán carpet in the house of my friend, Sir Bartle Frere.
It is of very short pile, very even and dense; the design, a combination of vases, birds, and
floral tracery, closely resembling the illuminated frontispiece of some Persian MSS.

The shawls are inferior to those of Kashmir in exquisite softness, but scarcely in delicacy
of texture and beauty of design. In 1850, their highest quality did not exceed 30 tomans (14l.)
in price. About 2200 looms were employed on the fabric. A good deal of Kermán wool called Kurk,
goes viâ Bandar Abbási and Karáchi to Amritsar, where it is mixed with the genuine Tibetan
wool in the shawl manufacture. Several of the articles named in the text, including pardahs
("cortines") are woven in shawl-fabric. I scarcely think, however, that Marco would have confounded
woven shawl with needle embroidery. And Mr. Khanikoff states that the silk embroidery, of which
Marco speaks, is still performed with great skill and beauty at Kermán. Our cut illustrates
the textures figured with animals, already noticed at p. 66.

The Guebers were numerous here at the end of last century, but they are rapidly disappearing
now. The Musulman of Kermán is, according to Khanikoff, an epicurean gentleman, and even in
regard to wine, which is strong and plentiful, his divines are liberal. "In other parts of
Persia you find the scribblings on the walls of Serais to consist of philosophical axioms,
texts from the Koran, or abuse of local authorities. From Kermán to Yezd you find only rhymes
in praise of fair ladies or good wine."

(Pottinger's Travels; Khanik. Mém. 186 seqq., and Notice, p. 21; Major Smith's Report; Abbott's
MS. Report in F. O.; Notes by Major O. St. John, R.E.)

NOTE 5.--Parez is famous for its falcons still, and so are the districts of Aktúr and Sirján.
Both Mr. Abbott and Major Smith were entertained with hawking by Persian hosts in this neighbourhood.
The late Sir O. St. John identifies the bird described as the Sháhín (Falco Peregrinator),
one variety of which, the Fársi, is abundant in the higher mountains of S. Persia. It is now
little used in that region, the Terlán or goshawk being most valued, but a few are caught and
sent for sale to the Arabs of Oman. (J. R. G. S. XXV. 50, 63, and Major St. John's Notes.)

["The fine falcons, 'with red breasts and swift of flight,' come from Páríz. They are, however,
very scarce, two or three only being caught every year. A well-trained Páríz falcon costs from
30 to 50 tomans (12l. to 20l.), as much as a good horse." (Houtum-Schindler, l.c. p. 491.)
Major Sykes, Persia, ch. xxiii., writes: "Marco Polo was evidently a keen sportsman, and his
description of the Sháhin, as it is termed, cannot be improved upon." Major Sykes has a list
given him by a Khán of seven hawks of the province, all black and white, except the Sháhin,
which has yellow eyes, and is the third in the order of size.--H. C.]

NOTE 6.--We defer geographical remarks till the traveller reaches Hormuz.

[1] A learned friend objects to Johnson's Hundwáníy = "Indian Steel," as
    too absolute; some word for steel being wanted. Even if it be so, I
    observe that in three places where Polo uses Ondanique (here, ch.
    xxi., and ch. xlii.), the phrase is always "steel and ondanique."
    This looks as if his mental expression were Púlád-i-Hundwáni,
    rendered by an idiom like Virgil's pocula et aurum.

[2] Kenrick suggests that the "bright iron" mentioned by Ezekiel among the
    wares of Tyre (ch. xxvii. 19) can hardly have been anything else than
    Indian Steel, because named with cassia and calamus.

[3] Literally rendered by Mr. Redhouse: "The Indians do well the combining
    of mixtures of the chemicals with which they (smelt and) cast the soft
    iron, and it becomes Indian (steel), being referred to India (in
    this expression)."

[4] In Richardson's Pers. Dict., by Johnson, we have a word Rohan,
    Rohina (and other forms). "The finest Indian steel, of which the most
    excellent swords are made; also the swords made of that steel."

CHAPTER XVIII.

OF THE CITY OF CAMADI AND ITS RUINS; ALSO TOUCHING THE CARAUNA ROBBERS.

After you have ridden down hill those two days, you find yourself in a vast plain, and at the
beginning thereof there is a city called CAMADI, which formerly was a great and noble place,
but now is of little consequence, for the Tartars in their incursions have several times ravaged
it. The plain whereof I speak is a very hot region; and the province that we now enter is called
REOBARLES.

The fruits of the country are dates, pistachioes, and apples of Paradise, with others of the
like not found in our cold climate. [There are vast numbers of turtledoves, attracted by the
abundance of fruits, but the Saracens never take them, for they hold them in abomination.]
And on this plain there is a kind of bird called francolin, but different from the francolin
of other countries, for their colour is a mixture of black and white, and the feet and beak
are vermilion colour.[NOTE 1]

The beasts also are peculiar; and first I will tell you of their oxen. These are very large,
and all over white as snow; the hair is very short and smooth, which is owing to the heat of
the country. The horns are short and thick, not sharp in the point; and between the shoulders
they have a round hump some two palms high. There are no handsomer creatures in the world.
And when they have to be loaded, they kneel like the camel; once the load is adjusted, they
rise. Their load is a heavy one, for they are very strong animals. And you must know that when
these Caraonas wish to make a plundering incursion, they have certain devilish enchantments
whereby they do bring darkness over the face of day, insomuch that you can scarcely discern
your comrade riding beside you; and this darkness they will cause to extend over a space of
seven days' journey. They know the country thoroughly, and ride abreast, keeping near one another,
sometimes to the number of 10,000, at other times more or fewer. In this way they extend across
the whole plain that they are going to harry, and catch every living thing that is found outside
of the towns and villages; man, woman, or beast, nothing can escape them! The old men whom
they take in this way they butcher; the young men and the women they sell for slaves in other
countries; thus the whole land is ruined, and has become well-nigh a desert.

The King of these scoundrels is called NOGODAR. This Nogodar had gone to the Court of Chagatai,
who was own brother to the Great Kaan, with some 10,000 horsemen of his, and abode with him;
for Chagatai was his uncle. And whilst there this Nogodar devised a most audacious enterprise,
and I will tell you what it was. He left his uncle who was then in Greater Armenia, and fled
with a great body of horsemen, cruel unscrupulous fellows, first through BADASHAN, and then
through another province called PASHAI-DIR, and then through another called ARIORA-KESHEMUR.
There he lost a great number of his people and of his horses, for the roads were very narrow
and perilous. And when he had conquered all those provinces, he entered India at the extremity
of a province called DALIVAR. He established himself in that city and government, which he
took from the King of the country, ASEDIN SOLDAN by name, a man of great power and wealth.
And there abideth Nogodar with his army, afraid of nobody, and waging war with all the Tartars
in his neighbourhood.[NOTE 4]

Now that I have told you of those scoundrels and their history, I must add the fact that Messer
Marco himself was all but caught by their bands in such a darkness as that I have told you
of; but, as it pleased God, he got off and threw himself into a village that was hard by, called
CONOSALMI. Howbeit he lost his whole company except seven persons who escaped along with him.
The rest were caught, and some of them sold, some put to death.[NOTE 5]

NOTE 1.--Ramusio has "Adam's apple" for apples of Paradise. This was some kind of Citrus, though
Lindley thinks it impossible to say precisely what. According to Jacques de Vitry it was a
beautiful fruit of the Citron kind, in which the bite of human teeth was plainly discernible.
(Note to Vulgar Errors, II. 211; Bongars, I. 1099.) Mr. Abbott speaks of this tract as "the
districts (of Kermán) lying towards the South, which are termed the Ghermseer or Hot Region,
where the temperature of winter resembles that of a charming spring, and where the palm, orange,
and lemon-tree flourish." (MS. Report; see also J. R. G. S. XXV. 56.)

["Marco Polo's apples of Paradise are more probably the fruits of the Konár tree. There are
no plantains in that part of the country. Turtle doves, now as then, are plentiful, and as
they are seldom shot, and are said by the people to be unwholesome food, we can understand
Marco Polo's saying that the people do not eat them." (Houtum-Schindler, l.c. pp. 492-493.)--H. C.]

The Francolin here spoken of is, as Major Smith tells me, the Darráj of the Persians, the Black
Partridge of English sportsmen, sometimes called the Red-legged Francolin. The Darráj is found
in some parts of Egypt, where its peculiar call is interpreted by the peasantry into certain
Arabic words, meaning "Sweet are the corn-ears! Praised be the Lord!" In India, Baber tells
us, the call of the Black Partridge was (less piously) rendered "Shír dáram shakrak," "I've
got milk and sugar!" The bird seems to be the [Greek: attagàs] of Athenaeus, a fowl "speckled
like the partridge, but larger," found in Egypt and Lydia. The Greek version of its cry is
the best of all: "[Greek: trìs tois kakoúrgois kaká]" ("Threefold ills to the ill-doers!").
This is really like the call of the black partridge in India as I recollect it. [Tetrao francolinus.--H.
C.]

(Chrestomathie Arabe, II. 295; Baber, 320; Yonge's Atken. IX. 39.)

NOTE 2.--Abbott mentions the humped (though small) oxen in this part of Persia, and that in
some of the neighbouring districts they are taught to kneel to receive the load, an accomplishment
which seems to have struck Mas'udi (III. 27), who says he saw it exhibited by oxen at Rai (near
modern Tehran). The Aín Akbari also ascribes it to a very fine breed in Bengal. The whimsical
name Zebu, given to the humped or Indian ox in books of Zoology, was taken by Buffon from the
exhibitors of such a beast at a French Fair, who probably invented it. That the humped breeds
of oxen existed in this part of Asia in ancient times is shown by sculptures at Kouyunjik.
(See cut below.)

A letter from Agassiz, printed in the Proc. As. Soc. Bengal (1865), refers to wild "zebus,"
and calls the species a small one. There is no wild "zebu," and some of the breeds are of enormous
size.

["White oxen, with short thick horns and a round hump between the shoulders, are now very rare
between Kermán and Bender 'Abbás. They are, however, still to be found towards Belúchistán
and Mekrán, and they kneel to be loaded like camels. The sheep which I saw had fine large tails;
I did not, however, hear of any having so high a weight as thirty pounds." (Houtum-Schindler,
l.c. p. 493.)--H. C.]

The fat-tailed sheep is well known in many parts of Asia and part of Africa. It is mentioned
by Ctesias, and by Aelian, who says the shepherds used to extract the tallow from the live
animal, sewing up the tail again; exactly the same story is told by the Chinese Pliny, Ma Twan-lin.
Marco's statements as to size do not surpass those of the admirable Kampfer: "In size they
so much surpass the common sheep that it is not unusual to see them as tall as a donkey, whilst
all are much more than three feet; and as to the tail I shall not exceed the truth, though
I may exceed belief, if I say that it sometimes reaches 40 lbs. in weight." Captain Hutton
was assured by an Afghan sheep-master that tails had occurred in his flocks weighing 12 Tabriz
mans, upwards of 76 lbs.! The Afghans use the fat as an aperient, swallowing a dose of 4 to
6 lbs! Captain Hutton's friend testified that trucks to bear the sheep-tails were sometimes
used among the Taimúnis (north of Herat). This may help to locate that ancient and slippery
story. Josafat Barbaro says he had seen the thing, but is vague as to place. (Aelian Nat. An.
III. 3, IV. 32; Amoen. Exoticae; Ferrier, H. of Afghans, p. 294; J. A. S. B. XV. 160.)

[Rabelais says (Bk. I. ch. xvi.): "Si de ce vous efmerveillez, efmerveillez vous d'advantage
de la queue des béliers de la Scythie, qui pesait plus de trente livres; et des moutons de
Surie, esquels fault (si Tenaud, dict vray) affuster une charrette au cul, pour la porter tant
qu'elle est longue et pesante." (See G. Capus, A travers le roy. de Tamerlan, pp. 21-23, on
the fat sheep.)--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--The word rendered banditti is in Pauthier Carans, in G. Text Caraunes, in the Latin
"a scaranis et malandrinis." The last is no doubt correct, standing for the old Italian Scherani,
bandits. (See Cathay, p. 287, note.)

NOTE 4.--This is a knotty subject, and needs a long note.

The KARAUNAHS are mentioned often in the histories of the Mongol regime in Persia, first as
a Mongol tribe forming a Tuman, i.e. a division or corps of 10,000 in the Mongol army (and
I suspect it was the phrase the Tuman of the Karaunahs in Marco's mind that suggested his repeated
use of the number 10,000 in speaking of them); and afterwards as daring and savage freebooters,
scouring the Persian provinces, and having their headquarters on the Eastern frontiers of Persia.
They are described as having had their original seats on the mountains north of the Chinese
wall near Karaún Jidun or Khidun; and their special accomplishment in war was the use of Naphtha
Fire. Rashiduddin mentions the Karánut as a branch of the great Mongol tribe of the Kunguráts,
who certainly had their seat in the vicinity named, so these may possibly be connected with
the Karaunahs. The same author says that the Tuman of the Karaunahs formed the Injú or peculium
of Arghún Khan.

Wassáf calls them "a kind of goblins rather than human beings, the most daring of all the Mongols";
and Mirkhond speaks in like terms.

Dr. Bird of Bombay, in discussing some of the Indo-Scythic coins which bear the word Korano
attached to the prince's name, asserts this to stand for the name of the Karaunah, "who were
a Graeco-Indo-Scythic tribe of robbers in the Punjab, who are mentioned by Marco Polo," a somewhat
hasty conclusion which Pauthier adopts. There is, Quatremère observes, no mention of the Karaunahs
before the Mongol invasion, and this he regards as the great obstacle to any supposition of
their having been a people previously settled in Persia. Reiske, indeed, with no reference
to the present subject, quotes a passage from Hamza of Ispahan, a writer of the 10th century,
in which mention is made of certain troops called Karáunahs. But it seems certain that in this
and other like cases the real reading was Kazáwinah, people of Kazvin. (See Reiske's Constant.
Porphyrog. Bonn. ed. II. 674; Gottwaldt's Hamza Ispahanensis, p. 161; and Quatremère in J.
A. sér. V. tom. xv. 173.) Ibn Batuta only once mentions the name, saying that Tughlak Sháh
of Dehli was "one of those Turks called Karáunas who dwell in the mountains between Sind and
Turkestan." Hammer has suggested the derivation of the word Carbine from Karáwinah (as he writes),
and a link in such an etymology is perhaps furnished by the fact that in the 16th century the
word Carbine was used for some kind of irregular horseman.

(Gold. Horde, 214; Ilch. I. 17, 344, etc.; Erdmann, 168, 199, etc.; J. A. S., B. X. 96; Q.
R. 130; Not. et Ext. XIV. 282; I. B. III. 201; Ed. Webbe, his Travailes, p. 17, 1590. Reprinted
1868.)

As regards the account given by Marco of the origin of the Caraonas, it seems almost necessarily
a mistaken one. As Khanikoff remarks, he might have confounded them with the Biluchis, whose
Turanian aspect (at least as regards the Brahuis) shows a strong infusion of Turki blood, and
who might be rudely described as a cross between Tartars and Indians. It is indeed an odd fact
that the word Karáni (vulgo Cranny) is commonly applied in India at this day to the mixed race
sprung from European fathers and Native mothers, and this might be cited in corroboration of
Marsden's reference to the Sanskrit Karana, but I suspect the coincidence arises in another
way. Karana is the name applied to a particular class of mixt blood, whose special occupation
was writing and accounts. But the prior sense of the word seems to have been "clever, skilled,"
and hence a writer or scribe. In this sense we find Karáni applied in Ibn Batuta's day to a
ship's clerk, and it is used in the same sense in the Ain Akbari. Clerkship is also the predominant
occupation of the East-Indians, and hence the term Karáni is applied to them from their business,
and not from their mixt blood. We shall see hereafter that there is a Tartar term Arghún, applied
to fair children born of a Mongol mother and white father; it is possible that there may have
been a correlative word like Karáun (from Kará, black) applied to dark children born of Mongol
father and black mother, and that this led Marco to a false theory.

[Major Sykes (Persia) devotes a chapter (xxiv.) to The Karwán Expedition in which he says:
"Is it not possible that the Karwánis are the Caraonas of Marco Polo? They are distinct from
the surrounding Baluchis, and pay no tribute."--H. C.]

Let us turn now to the name of Nogodar. Contemporaneously with the Karaunahs we have frequent
mention of predatory bands known as Nigúdaris, who seem to be distinguished from the Karaunahs,
but had a like character for truculence. Their headquarters were about Sijistán, and Quatremère
seems disposed to look upon them as a tribe indigenous in that quarter. Hammer says they were
originally the troops of Prince Nigudar, grandson of Chaghatai, and that they were a rabble
of all sorts, Mongols, Turkmans, Kurds, Shúls, and what not. We hear of their revolts and disorders
down to 1319, under which date Mirkhond says that there had been one-and-twenty fights with
them in four years. Again we hear of them in 1336 about Herat, whilst in Baber's time they
turn up as Nukdari, fairly established as tribes in the mountainous tracts of Karnúd and Ghúr,
west of Kabul, and coupled with the Hazáras, who still survive both in name and character.
"Among both," says Baber, "there are some who speak the Mongol language." Hazáras and Takdaris
(read Nukdaris) again occur coupled in the History of Sind. (See Elliot, I. 303-304.) [On the
struggle against Timur of Toumen, veteran chief of the Nikoudrians (1383-84), see Major David
Price's Mahommedan History, London, 1821, vol. iii. pp. 47-49, H. C.] In maps of the 17th century,
as of Hondius and Blaeuw, we find the mountains north of Kabul termed Nochdarizari, in which
we cannot miss the combination Nigudar-Hazárah, whencesoever it was got. The Hazáras are eminently
Mongol in feature to this day, and it is very probable that they or some part of them are the
descendants of the Karáunahs or the Nigudaris, or of both, and that the origination of the
bands so called, from the scum of the Mongol inundation, is thus in degree confirmed. The Hazáras
generally are said to speak an old dialect of Persian. But one tribe in Western Afghanistan
retains both the name of Mongols and a language of which six-sevenths (judging from a vocabulary
published by Major Leech) appear to be Mongol. Leech says, too, that the Hazáras generally
are termed Moghals by the Ghilzais. It is worthy of notice that Abu'l Fázl, who also mentions
the Nukdaris among the nomad tribes of Kabul, says the Hazáras were the remains of the Chaghataian
army which Mangu Kaan sent to the aid of Hulaku, under the command of Nigudar Oghlan. (Not.
et Ext. XIV. 284; Ilch. I. 284, 309, etc,; Baber, 134, 136, 140; J. As. sér. IV. tom. iv. 98;
Ayeen Akbery, II. 192-193.)

So far, excepting as to the doubtful point of the relation between Karáunahs and Nigudaris,
and as to the origin of the former, we have a general accordance with Polo's representations.
But it is not very easy to identify with certainty the inroad on India to which he alludes,
or the person intended by Nogodar, nephew of Chaghatai. It seems as if two persons of that
name had each contributed something to Marco's history.

We find in Hammer and D'Ohsson that one of the causes which led to the war between Barka Khan
and Hulaku in 1262 (see above, Prologue, ch. ii.) was the violent end that had befallen three
princes of the House of Juji, who had accompanied Hulaku to Persia in command of the contingent
of that House. When war actually broke out, the contingent made their escape from Persia. One
party gained Kipchak by way of Derbend; another, in greater force, led by NIGUDAR and Onguja,
escaped to Khorasan, pursued by the troops of Hulaku, and thence eastward, where they seized
upon Ghazni and other districts bordering on India.

But again: Nigudar Aghul, or Oghlan, son of (the younger) Juji, son of Chaghatai, was the leader
of the Chaghataian contingent in Hulaku's expedition, and was still attached to the Mongol-Persian
army in 1269, when Borrak Khan, of the House of Chaghatai, was meditating war against his kinsman,
Abaka of Persia. Borrak sent to the latter an ambassador, who was the bearer of a secret message
to Prince Nigudar, begging him not to serve against the head of his own House. Nigudar, upon
this, made a pretext of retiring to his own headquarters in Georgia, hoping to reach Borrak's
camp by way of Derbend. He was, however, intercepted, and lost many of his people. With 1000
horse he took refuge in Georgia, but was refused an asylum, and was eventually captured by
Abaka's commander on that frontier. His officers were executed, his troops dispersed among
Abaka's army, and his own life spared under surveillance. I find no more about him. In 1278
Hammer speaks of him as dead, and of the Nigudarian bands as having been formed out of his
troops. But authority is not given.

The second Nigudar is evidently the one to whom Abu'l Fázl alludes. Khanikoff assumes that
the Nigudar who went off towards India about 1260 (he puts the date earlier) was Nigudar, the
grandson of Chaghatai, but he takes no notice of the second story just quoted.

In the former story we have bands under Nigudar going off by Ghazni, and conquering country
on the Indian frontier. In the latter we have Nigudar, a descendant of Chaghatai, trying to
escape from his camp on the frontier of Great Armenia. Supposing the Persian historians to
be correct, it looks as if Marco had rolled two stories into one.

Some other passages may be cited before quitting this part of the subject. A chronicle of Herat,
translated by Barbier de Meynard, says, under 1298: "The King Fakhruddin (of Herat) had the
imprudence to authorise the Amir Nigudar to establish himself in a quarter of the city, with
300 adventurers from 'Irak. This little troop made frequent raids in Kuhistan, Sijistan, Farrah,
etc., spreading terror. Khodabanda, at the request of his brother Ghazan Khan, came from Mazanderan
to demand the immediate surrender of these brigands," etc. And in the account of the tremendous
foray of the Chaghataian Prince Kotlogh Shah, on the east and south of Persia in 1299, we find
one of his captains called Nigudar Bahadur. (Gold. Horde, 146, 157, 164; D'Ohsson, IV. 378
seqq., 433 seqq., 513 seqq.; Ilch. I. 216, 261, 284; II. 104; J. A. sér. V. tom. xvii. 455-456,
507; Khan. Notice, 31.)

As regards the route taken by Prince Nogodar in his incursion into India, we have no difficulty
with BADAKHSHAN. PASHAI-DIR is a copulate name; the former part, as we shall see reason to
believe hereafter, representing the country between the Hindu Kush and the Kabul River (see
infra, ch. xxx.); the latter (as Pauthier already has pointed out), DIR, the chief town of
Panjkora, in the hill country north of Peshawar. In Ariora-Keshemur the first portion only
is perplexing. I will mention the most probable of the solutions that have occurred to me,
and a second, due to that eminent archaeologist, General A. Cunningham. (1) Ariora may be some
corrupt or Mongol form of Aryavartta, a sacred name applied to the Holy Lands of Indian Buddhism,
of which Kashmir was eminently one to the Northern Buddhists. Oron, in Mongol, is a Region
or Realm, and may have taken the place of Vartta, giving Aryoron or Ariora. (2) "Ariora," General
Cunningham writes, "I take to be the Harhaura of Sanscrit--i.e. the Western Panjáb. Harhaura
was the North-Western Division of the Nava- Khanda, or Nine Divisions of Ancient India. It
is mentioned between Sindhu-Sauvira in the west (i.e. Sind), and Madra in the north (i.e. the
Eastern Panjáb, which is still called Madar-Des). The name of Harhaura is, I think, preserved
in the Haro River. Now, the Sind-Sagor Doab formed a portion of the kingdom of Kashmir, and
the joint names, like those of Sindhu-Sauvira, describe only one State." The names of the Nine
Divisions in question are given by the celebrated astronomer, Varaha Mihira, who lived in the
beginning of the 6th century, and are repeated by Al Biruni. (See Reinaud, Mém. sur l'Inde,
p. 116.) The only objection to this happy solution seems to lie in Al Biruni's remark, that
the names in question were in general no longer used even in his time (A.D. 1030).

There can be no doubt that Asidin Soldan is, as Khanikoff has said, Ghaiassuddin Balban, Sultan
of Delhi from 1266 to 1286, and for years before that a man of great power in India, and especially
in the Panjáb, of which he had in the reign of Ruknuddin (1236) held independent possession.

Firishta records several inroads of Mongols in the Panjáb during the reign of Ghaiassuddin,
in withstanding one of which that King's eldest son was slain; and there are constant indications
of their presence in Sind till the end of the century. But we find in that historian no hint
of the chief circumstances of this part of the story, viz., the conquest of Kashmir and the
occupation of Dalivar or Dilivar (G. T.), evidently (whatever its identity) in the plains of
India. I do find, however, in the history of Kashmir, as given by Lassen (III. 1138), that
in the end of 1259, Lakshamana Deva, King of Kashmir, was killed in a campaign against the
Turushka (Turks or Tartars), and that their leader, who is called Kajjala, got hold of the
country and held it till 1287.[1] It is difficult not to connect this both with Polo's story
and with the escapade of Nigudar about 1260, noting also that this occupation of Kashmir extended
through the whole reign of Ghaiassuddin.

We seem to have a memory of Polo's story preserved in one of Elliot's extracts from Wassáf,
which states that in 708 (A.D. 1308), after a great defeat of a Mongol inroad which had passed
the Ganges, Sultan Ala'uddin Khilji ordered a pillar of Mongol heads to be raised before the
Badáun gate, "as was done with the Nigudari Moghuls" (III. 48).

We still have to account for the occupation and locality of Dalivar; Marsden supposed it to
be Lahore; Khanikoff considers it to be Diráwal, the ancient desert capital of the Bhattis,
properly (according to Tod) Deoráwal, but by a transposition common in India, as it is in Italy,
sometimes called Diláwar, in the modern State of Bháwalpúr. But General Cunningham suggests
a more probable locality in DILÁWAR on the west bank of the Jelam, close to Dárápúr, and opposite
to Mung. These two sites, Diláwar-Dárápúr on the west bank, and Mung on the east, are identified
by General Cunningham (I believe justly) with Alexander's Bucephala and Nicaea. The spot, which
is just opposite the battlefield of Chiliánwála, was visited (15th December, 1868) at my request,
by my friend Colonel R. Maclagan, R.E. He writes: "The present village of Diláwar stands a
little above the town of Dárápúr (I mean on higher ground), looking down on Dárápúr and on
the river, and on the cultivated and wooded plain along the river bank. The remains of the
Old Diláwar, in the form of quantities of large bricks, cover the low round-backed spurs and
knolls of the broken rocky hills around the present village, but principally on the land side.
They cover a large area of very irregular character, and may clearly be held to represent a
very considerable town. There are no indications of the form of buildings,... but simply large
quantities of large bricks, which for a long time have been carried away and used for modern
buildings.... After rain coins are found on the surface.... There can be no doubt of a very
large extent of ground, of very irregular and uninviting character, having been covered at
some time with buildings. The position on the Jelam would answer well for the Diláwar which
the Mongol invaders took and held.... The strange thing is that the name should not be mentioned
(I believe it is not) by any of the well-known Mahomedan historians of India. So much for Diláwar....
The people have no traditions. But there are the remains; and there is the name, borne by the
existing village on part of the old site." I had come to the conclusion that this was almost
certainly Polo's Dalivar, and had mapped it as such, before I read certain passages in the
History of Zíyáuddín Barni, which have been translated by Professor Dowson for the third volume
of Elliot's India. When the comrades of Ghaiassuddin Balban urged him to conquests, the Sultan
pointed to the constant danger from the Mongols,[2] saying: "These accursed wretches have heard
of the wealth and condition of Hindustan, and have set their hearts upon conquering and plundering
it. They have taken and plundered Lahor within my territories, and no year passes that they
do not come here and plunder the villages.... They even talk about the conquest and sack of
Delhi." And under a later date the historian says: "The Sultan... marched to Lahor, and ordered
the rebuilding of the fort which the Mughals had destroyed in the reigns of the sons of Shamsuddin.
The towns and villages of Lahor which the Mughals had devastated and laid waste he repeopled."
Considering these passages, and the fact that Polo had no personal knowledge of Upper India,
I now think it probable that Marsden was right, and that Dilivar is really a misunderstanding
of "Città di Livar" for Lahàwar or Lahore.

The Magical darkness which Marco ascribes to the evil arts of the Karaunas is explained by
Khanikoff from the phenomenon of Dry Fog, which he has often experienced in Khorasan, combined
with the Dust Storm with which we are familiar in Upper India. In Sind these phenomena often
produce a great degree of darkness. During a battle fought between the armies of Sindh and
Kachh in 1762, such a fog came on, obscuring the light of day for some six hours, during which
the armies were intermixed with one another and fighting desperately. When the darkness dispersed
they separated, and the consternation of both parties was so great at the events of the day
that both made a precipitate retreat. In 1844 this battle was still spoken of with wonder.
(J. Bomb. Br. R. A. S. I. 423.)

Major St. John has given a note on his own experience of these curious Kermán fogs (see Ocean
Highways, 1872, p. 286): "Not a breath of air was stirring, and the whole effect was most curious,
and utterly unlike any other fog I have seen. No deposit of dust followed, and the feeling
of the air was decidedly damp. I unfortunately could not get my hygrometer till the fog had
cleared away."

[General Houtum-Schindler, l.c. p. 493, writes: "The magical darkness might, as Colonel Yule
supposes, be explained by the curious dry fogs or dust storms, often occurring in the neighbourhood
of Kermán, but it must be remarked that Marco Polo was caught in one of these storms down in
Jíruft, where, according to the people I questioned, such storms now never occur. On the 29th
of September, 1879, at Kermán, a high wind began to blow from S.S.W. at about 5 P.M. First
there came thick heavy clouds of dust with a few drops of rain. The heavy dust then settled
down, the lighter particles remained in the air, forming a dry fog of such density that large
objects, like houses, trees, etc., could not even faintly be distinguished at a distance of
a hundred paces. The barometers suffered no change, the three I had with me remained in statu
quo." "The heat is over by the middle of September, and after the autumnal equinox, there are
a few days of what is best described as a dense dry fog. This was undoubtedly the haze referred
to by Marco Polo." (Major Sykes, ch. iv.) --H. C.]

Richthofen's remarkable exposition of the phenomena of the löss in North China, and of the
sub-aerial deposits of the steppes and of Central Asia throws some light on this. But this
hardly applies to St John's experience of "no deposit of dust." (See Richthofen, China, pp.
96-97 s. MS. Note, H. Y.)

The belief that such opportune phenomena were produced by enchantment was a thoroughly Tartar
one. D'Herbelot relates (art. Giagathai) that in an action with a rebel called Mahomed Tarabi,
the Mongols were encompassed by a dust storm which they attributed to enchantment on the part
of the enemy, and it so discouraged them that they took to flight.

NOTE 5.--The specification that only seven were saved from Marco's company is peculiar to Pauthier's
Text, not appearing in the G. T.

Several names compounded of Salm or Salmi occur on the dry lands on the borders of Kermán.
Edrisi, however (I. p. 428), names a place called KANÁT-UL-SHÁM as the first march in going
from Jiruft to Walashjird. Walashjird is, I imagine, represented by Galashkird, Major R. Smith's
third march from Jiruft (see my Map of Routes from Kermán to Hormuz); and as such an indication
agrees with the view taken below of Polo's route, I am strongly disposed to identify Kanát-ul-Shám
with his castello or walled village of Canosalmi.

["Marco Polo's Conosalmi, where he was attacked by robbers and lost the greater part of his
men, is perhaps the ruined town or village Kamasal (Kahn-i-asal = the honey canal), near Kahnúj-i-pancheh
and Vakílábád in Jíruft. It lies on the direct road between Shehr-i-Daqíánús (Camadi) and the
Nevergún Pass. The road goes in an almost due southerly direction. The Nevergún Pass accords
with Marco Polo's description of it; it is very difficult, on account of the many great blocks
of sandstone scattered upon it. Its proximity to the Bashakird mountains and Mekrán easily
accounts for the prevalence of robbers, who infested the place in Marco Polo's time. At the
end of the Pass lies the large village Shamíl, with an old fort; the distance thence to the
site of Hormúz or Bender 'Abbás (lying more to the west) is 52 miles, two days' march. The
climate of Bender 'Abbás is very bad, strangers speedily fall sick, two of my men died there,
all the others were seriously ill." (Houtum-Schindler, l.c. pp. 495-496.) Major Sykes (ch.
xxiii.) says: "Two marches from Camadi was Kahn-i-Panchur, and a stage beyond it lay the ruins
of Fariáb or Pariáb, which was once a great city, and was destroyed by a flood, according to
local legend. It may have been Alexander's Salmous, as it is about the right distance from
the coast, and if so, could not have been Marco's Cono Salmi. Continuing on, Galashkird mentioned
by Edrisi, is the next stage."--H. C.]

The raids of the Mekranis and Biluchis long preceded those of the Karaunas, for they were notable
even in the time of Mahmud of Ghazni, and they have continued to our own day to be prosecuted
nearly on the same stage and in the same manner. About 1721, 4000 horsemen of this description
plundered the town of Bander Abbasi, whilst Captain Alex. Hamilton was in the port; and Abbott,
in 1850, found the dread of Bilúch robbers to extend almost to the gates of Ispahan. A striking
account of the Bilúch robbers and their characteristics is given by General Ferrier. (See Hamilton,
I. 109; J. R. G. S. XXV.; Khanikoff's Mémoire; Macd. Kinneir, 196; Caravan Journeys, p. 437 seq.)

[1] Khajlak is mentioned as a leader of the Mongol raids in India by the
    poet Amir Khusrú (A.D. 1289; see Elliot III. 527).

[2] Professor Cowell compares the Mongol inroads in the latter part of the
    13th and beginning of the 14th century, in their incessant recurrence,
    to the incursions of the Danes in England. A passage in Wassáf
    (Elliot, III. 38) shows that the Mongols were, circa 1254-55,
    already in occupation of Sodia on the Chenab, and districts adjoining.

CHAPTER XIX.

OF THE DESCENT TO THE CITY OF HORMOS.

The Plain of which we have spoken extends in a southerly direction for five days' journey,
and then you come to another descent some twenty miles in length, where the road is very bad
and full of peril, for there are many robbers and bad characters about. When you have got to
the foot of this descent you find another beautiful plain called the PLAIN OF FORMOSA. This
extends for two days' journey; and you find in it fine streams of water with plenty of date-palms
and other fruit-trees. There are also many beautiful birds, francolins, popinjays, and other
kinds such as we have none of in our country. In fact, 'tis a city of immense trade. There
are plenty of towns and villages under it, but it is the capital. The King is called RUOMEDAM
AHOMET. It is a very sickly place, and the heat of the sun is tremendous. If any foreign merchant
dies there, the King takes all his property.

In this country they make a wine of dates mixt with spices, which is very good. When any one
not used to it first drinks this wine, it causes repeated and violent purging, but afterwards
he is all the better for it, and gets fat upon it. The people never eat meat and wheaten bread
except when they are ill, and if they take such food when they are in health it makes them
ill. Their food when in health consists of dates and salt-fish (tunny, to wit) and onions,
and this kind of diet they maintain in order to preserve their health.[NOTE 2]

Their ships are wretched affairs, and many of them get lost; for they have no iron fastenings,
and are only stitched together with twine made from the husk of the Indian nut. They beat this
husk until it becomes like horse-hair, and from that they spin twine, and with this stitch
the planks of the ships together. It keeps well, and is not corroded by the sea-water, but
it will not stand well in a storm. The ships are not pitched, but are rubbed with fish-oil.
They have one mast, one sail, and one rudder, and have no deck, but only a cover spread over
the cargo when loaded. This cover consists of hides, and on the top of these hides they put
the horses which they take to India for sale. They have no iron to make nails of, and for this
reason they use only wooden trenails in their shipbuilding, and then stitch the planks with
twine as I have told you. Hence 'tis a perilous business to go a voyage in one of those ships,
and many of them are lost, for in that Sea of India the storms are often terrible.[NOTE 3]

The people are black, and are worshippers of Mahommet. The residents avoid living in the cities,
for the heat in summer is so great that it would kill them. Hence they go out (to sleep) at
their gardens in the country, where there are streams and plenty of water. For all that they
would not escape but for one thing that I will mention. The fact is, you see, that in summer
a wind often blows across the sands which encompass the plain, so intolerably hot that it would
kill everybody, were it not that when they perceive that wind coming they plunge into water
up to the neck, and so abide until the wind have ceased.[NOTE 4] [And to prove the great heat
of this wind, Messer Mark related a case that befell when he was there. The Lord of Hormos,
not having paid his tribute to the King of Kerman the latter resolved to claim it at the time
when the people of Hormos were residing away from the city. So he caused a force of 1600 horse
and 5000 foot to be got ready, and sent them by the route of Reobarles to take the others by
surprise. Now, it happened one day that through the fault of their guide they were not able
to reach the place appointed for their night's halt, and were obliged to bivouac in a wilderness
not far from Hormos. In the morning as they were starting on their march they were caught by
that wind, and every man of them was suffocated, so that not one survived to carry the tidings
to their Lord. When the people of Hormos heard of this they went forth to bury the bodies lest
they should breed a pestilence. But when they laid hold of them by the arms to drag them to
the pits, the bodies proved to be so baked, as it were, by that tremendous heat, that the arms
parted from the trunks, and in the end the people had to dig graves hard by each where it lay,
and so cast them in.][NOTE 5]

The people sow their wheat and barley and other corn in the month of November, and reap it
in the month of March. The dates are not gathered till May, but otherwise there is no grass
nor any other green thing, for the excessive heat dries up everything.

When any one dies they make a great business of the mourning, for women mourn their husbands
four years. During that time they mourn at least once a day, gathering together their kinsfolk
and friends and neighbours for the purpose, and making a great weeping and wailing. [And they
have women who are mourners by trade, and do it for hire.]

Now, we will quit this country. I shall not, however, now go on to tell you about India; but
when time and place shall suit we shall come round from the north and tell you about it. For
the present, let us return by another road to the aforesaid city of Kerman, for we cannot get
at those countries that I wish to tell you about except through that city.

I should tell you first, however, that King Ruomedam Ahomet of Hormos, which we are leaving,
is a liegeman of the King of Kerman.[NOTE 6]

On the road by which we return from Hormos to Kerman you meet with some very fine plains, and
you also find many natural hot baths; you find plenty of partridges on the road; and there
are towns where victual is cheap and abundant, with quantities of dates and other fruits. The
wheaten bread, however, is so bitter, owing to the bitterness of the water, that no one can
eat it who is not used to it. The baths that I mentioned have excellent virtues; they cure
the itch and several other diseases.[NOTE 7]

Now, then, I am going to tell you about the countries towards the north, of which you shall
hear in regular order. Let us begin.

NOTE 1.--Having now arrived at HORMUZ, it is time to see what can be made of the Geography
of the route from Kermán to that port.

The port of Hormuz, [which had taken the place of Kish as the most important market of the
Persian Gulf (H. C.)], stood upon the mainland. A few years later it was transferred to the
island which became so famous, under circumstances which are concisely related by Abulfeda:--"Hormuz
is the port of Kermán, a city rich in palms, and very hot. One who has visited it in our day
tells me that the ancient Hormuz was devastated by the incursions of the Tartars, and that
its people transferred their abode to an island in the sea called Zarun, near the continent,
and lying west of the old city. At Hormuz itself no inhabitants remain, but some of the lowest
order." (In Büsching, IV. 261-262.) Friar Odoric, about 1321, found Hormuz "on an island some
5 miles distant from the main." Ibn Batuta, some eight or nine years later, discriminates between
Hormuz or Moghistan on the mainland, and New Hormuz on the Island of Jeraun, but describes
only the latter, already a great and rich city.

The site of the Island Hormuz has often been visited and described; but I could find no published
trace of any traveller having verified the site of the more ancient city, though the existence
of its ruins was known to John de Barros, who says that a little fort called Cuxstac (Kuhestek
of P. della Valle, II. p. 300) stood on the site. An application to Colonel Pelly, the very
able British Resident at Bushire, brought me from his own personal knowledge the information
that I sought, and the following particulars are compiled from the letters with which he has
favoured me:--

"The ruins of Old Hormuz, well known as such, stand several miles up a creek, and in the centre
of the present district of Minao. They are extensive (though in large part obliterated by long
cultivation over the site), and the traces of a long pier or Bandar were pointed out to Colonel
Pelly. They are about 6 or 7 miles from the fort of Minao, and the Minao river, or its stony
bed, winds down towards them. The creek is quite traceable, but is silted up, and to embark
goods you have to go a farsakh towards the sea, where there is a custom-house on that part
of the creek which is still navigable. Colonel Pelly collected a few bricks from the ruins.
From the mouth of the Old Hormuz creek to the New Hormuz town, or town of Turumpak on the island
of Hormuz, is a sail of about three farsakhs. It may be a trifle more, but any native tells
you at once that it is three farsakhs from Hormuz Island to the creek where you land to go
up to Minao. Hormuzdia was the name of the region in the days of its prosperity. Some people
say that Hormuzdia was known as Jerunia, and Old Hormuz town as Jerun." (In this I suspect
tradition has gone astray.) "The town and fort of Minao lie to the N.E. of the ancient city,
and are built upon the lowest spur of the Bashkurd mountains, commanding a gorge through which
the Rudbar river debouches on the plain of Hormuzdia." In these new and interesting particulars
it is pleasing to find such precise corroboration both of Edrisi and of Ibn Batuta. The former,
writing in the 12th century, says that Hormuz stood on the banks of a canal or creek from the
Gulf, by which vessels came up to the city. The latter specifies the breadth of sea between
Old and New Hormuz as three farsakhs. (Edrisi, I. 424; I. B. II. 230.)

I now proceed to recapitulate the main features of Polo's Itinerary from Kermán to Hormuz.
We have:--

                                                            Marches
  1. From Kermán across a plain to the top of a
     mountain-pass, where extreme cold was
     experienced       .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   7
  2. A descent, occupying    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   2
  3. A great plain, called Reobarles, in a much warmer
     climate, abounding in francolin partridge, and in
     dates and tropical fruit, with a ruined city of former
     note, called Camadi, near the head of the plain,
     which extends for  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   5
  4. A second very bad pass, descending for 20 miles, say      1
  5. A well-watered fruitful plain, which is crossed to
     Hormuz, on the shores of the Gulf    .    .    .    .   2
                                                              --
                            Total                             17

No European traveller, so far as I know, has described the most direct road from Kermán to
Hormuz, or rather to its nearest modern representative Bander Abbási,--I mean the road by Báft.
But a line to the eastward of this, and leading through the plain of Jiruft, was followed partially
by Mr. Abbott in 1850, and completely by Major R. M. Smith, R.E., in 1866. The details of this
route, except in one particular, correspond closely in essentials with those given by our author,
and form an excellent basis of illustration for Polo's description.

Major Smith (accompanied at first by Colonel Goldsmid, who diverged to Mekran) left Kermán
on the 15th of January, and reached Bander Abbási on the 3rd of February, but, as three halts
have to be deducted, his total number of marches was exactly the same as Marco's, viz. 17.
They divide as follows:--

                                                            Marches
  1. From Kermán to the caravanserai of Deh Bakri in the
     pass so called. "The ground as I ascended became
     covered with snow, and the weather bitterly cold"
     (Report)     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  6
  2. Two miles over very deep snow brought him to the
     top of the pass; he then descended 14 miles to his halt.
     Two miles to the south of the crest he passed a second
     caravanserai: "The two are evidently built so near one
     another to afford shelter to travellers who may be
     unable to cross the ridge during heavy snow-storms."
     The next march continued the descent for 14 miles, and
     then carried him 10 miles along the banks of the
     Rudkhanah-i-Shor. The approximate height of the pass
     above the sea is estimated at 8000 feet. We have thus
     for the descent the greater part of     .    .    .    .  2
  3. "Clumps of date-palms growing near the village showed
     that I had now reached a totally different climate."
     (Smith's Report.) And Mr. Abbott says of the same
     region: "Partly wooded ... and with thickets of reeds
     abounding with francolin and Jirufti partridge....
     The lands yield grain, millet, pulse, French- and
     horse-beans, rice, cotton, henna, Palma Christi, and dates,
     and in part are of great fertility.... Rainy season from
     January to March, after which a luxuriant crop of grass."
     Across this plain (districts of Jiruft and Rudbar), the
     height of which above the sea, is something under 2000
     feet .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  6
  4. 6-1/2 hours, "nearly the whole way over a most difficult
     mountain-pass," called the Pass of Nevergun  .    .    .  1
  5. Two long marches over a plain, part of which is described
     as "continuous cultivation for some 16 miles," and the rest
     as a "most uninteresting plain"    .    .    .    .    .  2
                                                              --
                            Total as before  .    .    .    . 17

In the previous edition of this work I was inclined to identify Marco's route absolutely with
this Itinerary. But a communication from Major St. John, who surveyed the section from Kermán
towards Deh Bakri in 1872, shows that this first section does not answer well to the description.
The road is not all plain, for it crosses a mountain pass, though not a formidable one. Neither
is it through a thriving, populous tract, for, with the exception of two large villages, Major
St. John found the whole road to Deh Bakri from Kermán as desert and dreary as any in Persia.
On the other hand, the more direct route to the south, which is that always used except in
seasons of extraordinary severity (such as that of Major Smith's journey, when this route was
impassable from snow), answers better, as described to Major St. John by muleteers, to Polo's
account. The first six days are occupied by a gentle ascent through the districts of Bardesir
and Kairat-ul-Arab, which are the best-watered and most fertile uplands of Kermán. From the
crest of the pass reached in those six marches (which is probably more than 10,000 feet above
the sea, for it was closed by snow on 1st May, 1872), an easy descent of two days leads to
the Garmsir. This is traversed in four days, and then a very difficult pass is crossed to reach
the plains bordering on the sea. The cold of this route is much greater than that of the Deh
Bakri route. Hence the correspondence with Polo's description, as far as the descent to the
Garmsir, or Reobarles, seems decidedly better by this route. It is admitted to be quite possible
that on reaching this plain the two routes coalesced. We shall assume this provisionally, till
some traveller gives us a detailed account of the Bardesir route. Meantime all the remaining
particulars answer well.

[General Houtum-Schindler (l.c. pp. 493-495), speaking of the Itinerary from Kermán to Hormúz
and back, says: "Only two of the many routes between Kermán and Bender 'Abbás coincide more
or less with Marco Polo's description. These two routes are the one over the Deh Bekrí Pass
[see above, Colonel Smith], and the one viâ Sárdú. The latter is the one, I think, taken by
Marco Polo. The more direct roads to the west are for the greater part through mountainous
country, and have not twelve stages in plains which we find enumerated in Marco Polo's Itinerary.
The road viâ Báft, Urzú, and the Zendán Pass, for instance, has only four stages in plains;
the road, viâ Ráhbur, Rúdbár and the Nevergún Pass only six; and the road viâ Sírján also only
six."

                                                            Marches.
     The Sárdú route, which seems to me to be the one
     followed by Marco Polo, has five stages through fertile
     and populous plains to Sarvízan    .    .    .    .    .  5
     One day's march ascends to the top of the Sarvízan Pass   1
     Two days' descent to Ráhjird, a village close to the
     ruins of old Jíruft, now called Shehr-i-Daqíánús  .    .  2
     Six days' march over the "vast plain" of Jírúft and Rúdbár
     to Faríáb, joining the Deh Bekrí route at Kerímábád, one
     stage south of the Shehr-i-Daqíánús     .    .    .    .  6
     One day's march through the Nevergún Pass to Shamíl,
     descending     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  1
     Two days' march through the plain to Bender 'Abbás or
     Hormúz    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  2
                                                              --
                            In all .    .    .    .    .    . 17

The Sárdú road enters the Jíruft plain at the ruins of the old city, the Deh Bekrí route does
so at some distance to the eastward. The first six stages performed by Marco Polo in seven
days go through fertile plains and past numerous villages. Regarding the cold, "which you can
scarcely abide," Marco Polo does not speak of it as existing on the mountains only; he says,
"From the city of Kermán to this descent the cold in winter is very great," that is, from Kermán
to near Jíruft. The winter at Kermán itself is fairly severe; from the town the ground gradually
but steadily rises, the absolute altitudes of the passes crossing the mountains to the south
varying from 8000 to 11,000 feet. These passes are up to the month of March always very cold;
in one it froze slightly in the beginning of June. The Sárdú Pass lies lower than the others.
The name is Sárdú, not Sardú from sard, "cold." Major Sykes (Persia, ch. xxiii.) comes to the
same conclusion: "In 1895, and again in 1900, I made a tour partly with the object of solving
this problem, and of giving a geographical existence to Sárdu, which appropriately means the
'Cold Country.' I found that there was a route which exactly fitted Marco's conditions, as
at Sarbizan the Sárdu plateau terminates in a high pass of 9200 feet, from which there is a
most abrupt descent to the plain of Jíruft, Komádin being about 35 miles, or two days' journey
from the top of the pass. Starting from Kermán, the stages would be as follows:--I. Jupár (small
town); 2. Bahrámjird (large village); 3. Gudar (village); 4. Ráin (small town).... Thence to
the Sarbizan pass is a distance of 45 miles, or three desert stages, thus constituting a total
of 110 miles for the seven days. This is the camel route to the present day, and absolutely
fits in with the description given.... The question to be decided by this section of the journey
may then, I think, be considered to be finally and most satisfactorily settled, the route proving
to lie between the two selected by Colonel Yule, as being the most suitable, although he wisely
left the question open."--H. C.]

In the abstract of Major Smith's Itinerary as we have given it, we do not find Polo's city
of Camadi. Major Smith writes to me, however, that this is probably to be sought in "the ruined
city, the traces of which I observed in the plain of Jíruft near Kerimabad. The name of the
city is now apparently lost." It is, however, known to the natives as the City of Dakiánús,
as Mr. Abbott, who visited the site, informs us. This is a name analogous only to the Arthur's
ovens or Merlin's caves of our own country, for all over Mahomedan Asia there are old sites
to which legend attaches the name of Dakianus or the Emperor Decius, the persecuting tyrant
of the Seven Sleepers. "The spot," says Abbott, "is an elevated part of the plain on the right
bank of the Hali Rúd, and is thickly strewn with kiln-baked bricks, and shreds of pottery and
glass.... After heavy rain the peasantry search amongst the ruins for ornaments of stone, and
rings and coins of gold, silver, and copper. The popular tradition concerning the city is that
it was destroyed by a flood long before the birth of Mahomed."

[General Houtum-Schindler, in a paper in the Jour. R. As. Soc., Jan. 1898, p. 43, gives an
abstract of Dr. Houtsma's (of Utrecht) memoir, Zur Geschichte der Saljuqen von Kerman, and
comes to the conclusion that "from these statements we can safely identify Marco Polo's Camadi
with the suburb Qumadin, or, as I would read it, Qamadin, of the city of Jiruft."-- (Cf. Major
Sykes' Persia, chap. xxiii.: "Camadi was sacked for the first time, after the death of Toghrul
Shah of Kermán, when his four sons reduced the province to a condition of anarchy.")

Major P. Molesworth Sykes, Recent Journeys in Persia (Geog. Journal, X. 1897, p. 589), says:
"Upon arrival in Rudbar, we turned north wards and left the Farman Farma, in order to explore
the site of Marco Polo's 'Camadi.'... We came upon a huge area littered with yellow bricks
eight inches square, while not even a broken wall is left to mark the site of what was formerly
a great city, under the name of the Sher-i-Jiruft."--H. C.] The actual distance from Bamm to
the City of Dakianus is, by Abbott's Journal, about 66 miles.

The name of REOBARLES, which Marco applies to the plain intermediate between the two descents,
has given rise to many conjectures. Marsden pointed to Rúdbár, a name frequently applied in
Persia to a district on a river, or intersected by streams--a suggestion all the happier that
he was not aware of the fact that there is a district of RUDBAR exactly in the required position.
The last syllable still requires explanation. I ventured formerly to suggest that it was the
Arabic Lass, or, as Marco would certainly have written it, Les, a robber. Reobarles would then
be RUDBAR-I-LASS, "Robber's River District." The appropriateness of the name Marco has amply
illustrated; and it appeared to me to survive in that of one of the rivers of the plain, which
is mentioned by both Abbott and Smith under the title of Rúdkhánah-i-Duzdi, or Robbery River,
a name also applied to a village and old fort on the banks of the stream. This etymology was,
however, condemned as an inadmissible combination of Persian and Arabic by two very high authorities
both as travellers and scholars--Sir H. Rawlinson and Mr. Khanikoff. The Les, therefore, has
still to be explained.[1]

[Major Sykes (Geog. Journal, 1902, p. 130) heard of robbers, some five miles from Mináb, and
he adds: "However, nothing happened, and after crossing the Gardan-i-Pichal, we camped at Birinti,
which is situated just above the junction of Rudkhána Duzdi, or 'River of Theft,' and forms
part of the district of Rudán, in Fars."

"The Jíruft and Rúdbár plains belong to the germsír (hot region), dates, pistachios, and konars
(apples of Paradise) abound in them. Reobarles is Rúdbár or Rüdbáris." (Houtum-Schindler, l.c.
1881, p. 495.)--H. C.]

We have referred to Marco's expressions regarding the great cold experienced on the pass which
formed the first descent; and it is worthy of note that the title of "The Cold Mountains" is
applied by Edrisi to these very mountains. Mr. Abbott's MS. Report also mentions in this direction,
Sardu, said to be a cold country (as its name seems to express [see above,--H. C.]), which
its population (Iliyáts) abandon in winter for the lower plains. It is but recently that the
importance of this range of mountains has become known to us. Indeed the existence of the chain,
as extending continuously from near Kashán, was first indicated by Khanikoff in 1862. More
recently Major St. John has shown the magnitude of this range, which rises into summits of
15,000 feet in altitude, and after a course of 550 miles terminates in a group of volcanic
hills some 50 miles S.E. of Bamm. Yet practically this chain is ignored on all our maps!

Marco's description of the "Plain of Formosa" does not apply, now at least, to the whole plain,
for towards Bander Abbási it is barren. But to the eastward, about Minao, and therefore about
Old Hormuz, it has not fallen off. Colonel Pelly writes: "The district of Minao is still for
those regions singularly fertile. Pomegranates, oranges, pistachio-nuts, and various other
fruits grow in profusion. The source of its fertility is of course the river, and you can walk
for miles among lanes and cultivated ground, partially sheltered from the sun." And Lieutenant
Kempthorne, in his notes on that coast, says of the same tract: "It is termed by the natives
the Paradise of Persia. It is certainly most beautifully fertile, and abounds in orange-groves,
and orchards containing apples, pears, peaches, and apricots; with vineyards producing a delicious
grape, from which was at one time made a wine called amber-rosolli"--a name not easy to explain.
'Ambar-i-Rasúl, "The Prophet's Bouquet!" would be too bold a name even for Persia, though names
more sacred are so profaned at Naples and on the Moselle. Sir H. Rawlinson suggests 'Ambar-'asali,
"Honey Bouquet," as possible.

When Nearchus beached his fleet on the shore of Harmozeia at the mouth of the Anamis (the River
of Minao), Arrian tells us he found the country a kindly one, and very fruitful in every way
except that there were no olives. The weary mariners landed and enjoyed this pleasant rest
from their toils. (Indica, 33; J. R. G. S. V. 274.)

The name Formosa is probably only Rusticiano's misunderstanding of Harmuza, aided, perhaps,
by Polo's picture of the beauty of the plain. We have the same change in the old Mafomet for
Mahomet, and the converse one in the Spanish hermosa for formosa. Teixeira's Chronicle says
that the city of Hormuz was founded by Xa Mahamed Dranku, i.e. Shah Mahomed Dirhem-Ko, in "a
plain of the same name."

The statement in Ramusio that Hormuz stood upon an island, is, I doubt not, an interpolation
by himself or some earlier transcriber.

When the ships of Nearchus launched again from the mouth of the Anamis, their first day's run
carried them past a certain desert and bushy island to another which was large and inhabited.
The desert isle was called Organa; the large one by which they anchored Oaracta. (Indica, 37.)
Neither name is quite lost; the latter greater island is Kishm or Brakht; the former Jerún,[2]
perhaps in old Persian Gerún or Gerán, now again desert though no longer bushy, after having
been for three centuries the site of a city which became a poetic type of wealth and splendour.
An Eastern saying ran, "Were the world a ring, Hormuz would be the jewel in it."

["The Yüan shi mentions several seaports of the Indian Ocean as carrying on trade with China;
Hormuz is not spoken of there. I may, however, quote from the Yüan History a curious statement
which perhaps refers to this port. In ch. cxxiii., biography of Arsz-lan, it is recorded that
his grandson Hurdutai, by order of Kubilai Khan, accompanied Bu-lo no-yen on his mission to
the country of Ha-rh-ma-sz. This latter name may be intended for Hormuz. I do not think that
by the Noyen Bulo, M. Polo could be meant, for the title Noyen would hardly have been applied
to him. But Rashid-eddin mentions a distinguished Mongol, by name Pulad, with whom he was acquainted
in Persia, and who furnished him with much information regarding the history of the Mongols.
This may be the Bu-lo no-yen of the Yüan History." (Bretschneider, Med. Res. II. p. 132.)--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--A spirit is still distilled from dates in Persia, Mekran, Sind, and some places in
the west of India. It is mentioned by Strabo and Dioscorides, according to Kämpfer, who says
it was in his time made under the name of a medicinal stomachic; the rich added Radix Chinae,
ambergris, and aromatic spices; the poor, liquorice and Persian absinth. (Sir B. Frere; Amoen.
Exot. 750; Macd. Kinneir, 220.)

["The date wine with spices is not now made at Bender 'Abbás. Date arrack, however, is occasionally
found. At Kermán a sort of wine or arrack is made with spices and alcohol, distilled from sugar;
it is called Má-ul-Háyát (water of life), and is recommended as an aphrodisiac. Grain in the
Shamíl plain is harvested in April, dates are gathered in August." (Houtum-Schindler, l.c. p. 496.)

See "Remarks on the Use of Wine and Distilled Liquors among the Mohammedans of Turkey and Persia,"
pp. 315-330 of Narrative of a Tour through Armenia, Kurdistan, Persia, and Mesopotamia....
By the Rev. Horatio Southgate,... London, 1840, vol. ii.--H. C.]

[Sir H. Yule quotes, in a MS. note, these lines from Moore's Light of the Harem:

  "Wine, too, of every clime and hue,
  Around their liquid lustre threw
  Amber Rosolli[3]--the bright dew
  From vineyards of the Green Sea gushing."] See above, p. 114.

The date and dry-fish diet of the Gulf people is noticed by most travellers, and P. del a Valle
repeats the opinion about its being the only wholesome one. Ibn Batuta says the people of Hormuz
had a saying, "Khormá wa máhí lút-i-Pádshahi," i.e. "Dates and fish make an Emperor's dish!"
A fish, exactly like the tunny of the Mediterranean in general appearance and habits, is one
of the great objects of fishery off the Sind and Mekran coasts. It comes in pursuit of shoals
of anchovies, very much like the Mediterranean fish also. (I. B. II. 231; Sir B. Frere.)

[Friar Odoric (Cathay, I. pp. 55-56) says: "And there you find (before arriving at Hormuz)
people who live almost entirely on dates, and you get forty-two pounds of dates for less than
a groat; and so of many other things."]

NOTE 3.--The stitched vessels of Kermán ([Greek: ploiária raptà]) are noticed in the Periplus.
Similar accounts to those of our text are given of the ships of the Gulf and of Western India
by Jordanus and John of Montecorvino. (Jord. p. 53; Cathay, p. 217.) "Stitched vessels," Sir
B. Frere writes, "are still used. I have seen them of 200 tons burden; but they are being driven
out by iron-fastened vessels, as iron gets cheaper, except where (as on the Malabar and Coromandel
coasts) the pliancy of a stitched boat is useful in a surf. Till the last few years, when steamers
have begun to take all the best horses, the Arab horses bound to Bombay almost all came in
the way Marco Polo describes." Some of them do still, standing over a date cargo, and the result
of this combination gives rise to an extraordinary traffic in the Bombay bazaar. From what
Colonel Pelly tells me, the stitched build in the Gulf is now confined to fishing-boats, and
is disused for sea-going craft.

[Friar Odoric (Cathay, I. p. 57) mentioned these vessels: "In this country men make use of
a kind of vessel which they call Jase, which is fastened only with stitching of twine. On one
of these vessels I embarked, and I could find no iron at all therein." Jase is for the Arabic
Djehaz.--H. C.]

The fish-oil used to rub the ships was whale-oil. The old Arab voyagers of the 9th century
describe the fishermen of Siraf in the Gulf as cutting up the whale-blubber and drawing the
oil from it, which was mixed with other stuff, and used to rub the joints of ships' planking.
(Reinaud, I. 146.)

Both Montecorvino and Polo, in this passage, specify one rudder, as if it was a peculiarity
of these ships worth noting. The fact is that, in the Mediterranean at least, the double rudders
of the ancients kept their place to a great extent through the Middle Ages. A Marseilles MS.
of the 13th century, quoted in Ducange, says: "A ship requires three rudders, two in place,
and one to spare." Another: "Every two-ruddered bark shall pay a groat each voyage; every one-ruddered
bark shall," etc. (See Due. under Timonus and Temo.) Numerous proofs of the use of two rudders
in the 13th century will be found in "Documenti inediti riguardanti le due Crociate di S. Ludovico
IX., Re di Francia, etc., da L. T. Belgrano, Genova, 1859." Thus in a specification of ships
to be built at Genoa for the king (p. 7), each is to have "Timones duo, affaiticos, grossitudinis
palmorum viiii et dimidiae, longitudinis cubitorum xxiiii." Extracts given by Capmany, regarding
the equipment of galleys, show the same thing, for he is probably mistaken in saying that one
of the dos timones specified was a spare one. Joinville (p. 205) gives incidental evidence
of the same: "Those Marseilles ships have each two rudders, with each a tiller (? tison) attached
to it in such an ingenious way that you can turn the ship right or left as fast as you would
turn a horse. So on the Friday the king was sitting upon one of these tillers, when he called
me and said to me," etc.[4] Francesco da Barberino, a poet of the 13th century, in the 7th
part of his Documenti d'Amore (printed at Rome in 1640), which instructs the lover to whose
lot it may fall to escort his lady on a sea-voyage (instructions carried so far as to provide
even for the case of her death at sea!), alludes more than once to these plural rudders. Thus--

  "---- se vedessi avenire
  Che vento ti rompesse
    Timoni ...
  In luogo di timoni
    Fa spere[5] e in aqua poni." (P. 272-273.)

And again, when about to enter a port, it is needful to be on the alert and ready to run in
case of a hostile reception, so the galley should enter stern foremost--a movement which he
reminds his lover involves the reversal of the ordinary use of the two rudders:--

  "L' un timon leva suso
    L' altro leggier tien giuso,
  Ma convien levar mano
    Non mica com soleàno,
  Ma per contraro, e face
    Cosi 'l guidar verace." (P. 275.)

A representation of a vessel over the door of the Leaning Tower at Pisa shows this arrangement,
which is also discernible in the frescoes of galley-fights by Spinello Aretini, in the Municipal
Palace at Siena.

[Godinho de Eredia (1613), describing the smaller vessels of Malacca which he calls bâlos in
ch. 13, De Embarcaçôes, says: "At the poop they have two rudders, one on each side to steer
with." E por poupa dos bâllos, tem 2 lêmes, hum en cada lado pera o governo. (Malacca, l'Inde
mérid. et le Cathay, Bruxelles, 1882, 4to, f. 26.)--H. C.]

The midship rudder seems to have been the more usual in the western seas, and the double quarter-rudders
in the Mediterranean. The former are sometimes styled Navarresques and the latter Latins. Yet
early seals of some of the Cinque Ports show vessels with the double rudder; one of which (that
of Winchelsea) is given in the cut.

In the Mediterranean the latter was still in occasional use late in the 16th century. Captain
Pantero Pantera in his book, L'Armata Navale (Rome, 1614, p. 44), says that the Galeasses,
or great galleys, had the helm alla Navarresca, but also a great oar on each side of it to
assist in turning the ship. And I observe that the great galeasses which precede the Christian
line of battle at Lepanto, in one of the frescoes by Vasari in the Royal Hall leading to the
Sistine Chapel, have the quarter-rudder very distinctly.

The Chinese appear occasionally to employ it, as seems to be indicated in a woodcut of a vessel
of war which I have traced from a Chinese book in the National Library at Paris. (See above,
p. 37.) [For the Chinese words for rudder, see p. 126 of J. Edkins' article on Chinese Names
for Boats and Boat Gear, Jour. N. China Br. R. As. Soc. N.S. XI. 1876.--H. C.] It is also used
by certain craft of the Indian Archipelago, as appears from Mr. Wallace's description of the
Prau in which he sailed from Macassar to the Aru Islands. And on the Caspian, it is stated
in Smith's "Dict. of Antiquities" (art. Gubernaculum), the practice remained in force till
late times. A modern traveller was nearly wrecked on that sea, because the two rudders were
in the hands of two pilots who spoke different languages, and did not understand each other!

(Besides the works quoted see Jal, Archéologie Navale, II. 437-438, and Capmany, Memorias,
III. 61.)

[Major Sykes remarks (Persia, ch. xxiii.): "Some unrecorded event, probably the sight of the
unseaworthy craft, which had not an ounce of iron in their composition, made our travellers
decide that the risks of the sea were too great, so that we have the pleasure of accompanying
them back to Kermán and thence northwards to Khorasán."--H. C.]

NOTE 4.--So also at Bander Abbási Tavernier says it was so unhealthy that foreigners could
not stop there beyond March; everybody left it in April. Not a hundredth part of the population,
says Kämpfer, remained in the city. Not a beggar would stop for any reward! The rich went to
the towns of the interior or to the cool recesses of the mountains, the poor took refuge in
the palm-groves at the distance of a day or two from the city. A place called 'Ishin, some
12 miles north of the city, was a favourite resort of the European and Hindu merchants. Here
were fine gardens, spacious baths, and a rivulet of fresh and limpid water.

The custom of lying in water is mentioned also by Sir John Maundevile, and it was adopted by
the Portuguese when they occupied Insular Hormuz, as P. della Valle and Linschoten relate.
The custom is still common during great heats, in Sind and Mekran (Sir B. F.).

An anonymous ancient geography (Liber Junioris Philosophi) speaks of a people in India who
live in the Terrestrial Paradise, and lead the life of the Golden Age.... The sun is so hot
that they remain all day in the river!

The heat in the Straits of Hormuz drove Abdurrazzak into an anticipation of a verse familiar
to English schoolboys: "Even the bird of rapid flight was burnt up in the heights of heaven,
as well as the fish in the depths of the sea!" (Tavern. Bk. V. ch. xxiii.; Am. Exot. 716, 762;
Müller, Geog. Gr. Min. II. 514; India in XV. Cent. p. 49.)

NOTE 5.--A like description of the effect of the Simúm on the human body is given by Ibn Batuta,
Chardin, A. Hamilton, Tavernier, Thévenot, etc.; and the first of these travellers speaks specially
of its prevalence in the desert near Hormuz, and of the many graves of its victims; but I have
met with no reasonable account of its poisonous action. I will quote Chardin, already quoted
at greater length by Marsden, as the most complete parallel to the text: "The most surprising
effect of the wind is not the mere fact of its causing death, but its operation on the bodies
of those who are killed by it. It seems as if they became decomposed without losing shape,
so that you would think them to be merely asleep, when they are not merely dead, but in such
a state that if you take hold of any part of the body it comes away in your hand. And the finger
penetrates such a body as if it were so much dust." (III. 286.)

Burton, on his journey to Medina, says: "The people assured me that this wind never killed
a man in their Allah-favoured land. I doubt the fact. At Bir Abbas the body of an Arnaut was
brought in swollen, and decomposed rapidly, the true diagnosis of death by the poison-wind."
Khanikoff is very distinct as to the immediate fatality of the desert wind at Khabis, near
Kermán, but does not speak of the effect on the body after death. This Major St. John does,
describing a case that occurred in June, 1871, when he was halting, during intense heat, at
the post-house of Pasangan, a few miles south of Kom. The bodies were brought in of two poor
men, who had tried to start some hours before sunset, and were struck down by the poisonous
blast within half-a-mile of the post-house. "It was found impossible to wash them before burial....
Directly the limbs were touched they separated from the trunk." (Oc. Highways, ut. sup.) About
1790, when Timúr Sháh of Kabul sent an army under the Sirdár-i-Sirdárán to put down a revolt
in Meshed, this force on its return was struck by Simúm in the Plain of Farrah, and the Sirdár
perished, with a great number of his men. (Ferrier, H. of the Afghans, 102; J. R. G. S. XXVI.
217; Khan. Mém. 210.)

NOTE 6.--The History of Hormuz is very imperfectly known. What I have met with on the subject
consists of--(1) An abstract by Teixeira of a chronicle of Hormuz, written by Thurán Sháh,
who was himself sovereign of Hormuz, and died in 1377; (2) some contemporary notices by Wassáf,
which are extracted by Hammer in his History of the Ilkhans; (3) some notices from Persian
sources in the 2nd Decade of De Barros (ch. ii.). The last do not go further back than Gordun
Sháh, the father of Thurán Sháh, to whom they erroneously ascribe the first migration to the
Island.

One of Teixeira's Princes is called Ruknuddin Mahmud, and with him Marsden and Pauthier have
identified Polo's Ruomedam Acomet, or as he is called on another occasion in the Geog. Text,
Maimodi Acomet. This, however, is out of the question, for the death of Ruknuddin is assigned
to A.H. 675 (A.D. 1277), whilst there can, I think, be no doubt that Marco's account refers
to the period of his return from China, viz. 1293 or thereabouts.

We find in Teixeira that the ruler who succeeded in 1290 was Amir Masa'úd, who obtained the
Government by the murder of his brother Saifuddin Nazrat. Masa'úd was cruel and oppressive;
most of the influential people withdrew to Baháuddin Ayaz, whom Saifuddin had made Wazir of
Kalhát on the Arabian coast. This Wazir assembled a force and drove out Masa'úd after he had
reigned three years. He fled to Kermán and died there some years afterwards.

Baháuddin, who had originally been a slave of Saifuddin Nazrat's, succeeded in establishing
his authority. But about 1300 great bodies of Turks (i.e. Tartars) issuing from Turkestan ravaged
many provinces of Persia, including Kermán and Hormuz. The people, unable to bear the frequency
of such visitations, retired first to the island of Kishm, and then to that of Jerún, on which
last was built the city of New Hormuz, afterwards so famous. This is Teixeira's account from
Thurán Sháh, so far as we are concerned with it. As regards the transfer of the city it agrees
substantially with Abulfeda's, which we have already quoted (supra, note 1).

Hammer's account from Wassáf is frightfully confused, chiefly I should suppose from Hammer's
own fault; for among other things he assumes that Hormuz was always on an island, and he distinguishes
between the Island of Hormuz and the Island of Jerún! We gather, however, that Hormuz before
the Mongol time formed a government subordinate to the Salghur Atabegs of Fars (see note 1,
ch. xv.), and when the power of that Dynasty was falling, the governor Mahmúd Kalháti, established
himself as Prince of Hormuz, and became the founder of a petty dynasty, being evidently identical
with Teixeira's Ruknuddin Mahmud above-named, who is represented as reigning from 1246 to 1277.
In Wassáf we find, as in Teixeira, Mahmúd's son Masa'úd killing his brother Nazrat, and Baháuddin
expelling Masa'úd. It is true that Hammer's surprising muddle makes Nazrat kill Masa'úd; however,
as a few lines lower we find Masa'úd alive and Nazrat dead, we may safely venture on this correction.
But we find also that Masa'úd appears as Ruknuddin Masa'úd, and that Baháuddin does not assume
the princely authority himself, but proclaims that of Fakhruddin Ahmed Ben Ibrahim At-Thaibi,
a personage who does not appear in Teixeira at all. A MS. history, quoted by Ouseley, does
mention Fakhruddin, and ascribes to him the transfer to Jerún. Wassáf seems to allude to Baháuddin
as a sort of Sea Rover, occupying the islands of Larek and Jerún, whilst Fakhruddin reigned
at Hormuz. It is difficult to understand the relation between the two.

It is possible that Polo's memory made some confusion between the names of RUKNUDDIN Masa'úd
and Fakhruddin AHMED, but I incline to think the latter is his RUOMEDAN AHMED. For Teixeira
tells us that Masa'úd took refuge at the court of Kermán, and Wassáf represents him as supported
in his claims by the Atabeg of that province, whilst we see that Polo seems to represent Ruomedan
Acomat as in hostility with that prince. To add to the imbroglio I find in a passage of Wassáf
Malik Fakhruddin Ahmed at-Thaibi sent by Ghazan Khan in 1297 as ambassador to Khanbalig, staying
there some years, and dying off the Coromandel coast on his return in 1305. (Elliot, iii. pp.
45-47.)

Masa'úd's seeking help from Kermán to reinstate him is not the first case of the same kind
that occurs in Teixeira's chronicle, so there may have been some kind of colour for Marco's
representation of the Prince of Hormuz as the vassal of the Atabeg of Kermán ("l'homme de cest
roy de Creman;" see Prologue, ch. xiv. note 2). M. Khanikoff denies the possibility of the
existence of any royal dynasty at Hormuz at this period. That there was a dynasty of Maliks
of Hormuz, however, at this period we must believe on the concurring testimony of Marco, of
Wassáf, and of Thurán Sháh. There was also, it would seem, another quasi-independent principality
in the Island of Kais. (Hammer's Ilch. II. 50, 51; Teixeira, Relacion de los Reyes de Hormuz;
Khan. Notice, p. 34.)

The ravages of the Tartars which drove the people of Hormuz from their city may have begun
with the incursions of the Nigudaris and Karaunahs, but they probably came to a climax in the
great raid in 1299 of the Chaghataian Prince Kotlogh Shah, son of Dua Khan, a part of whose
bands besieged the city itself, though they are said to have been repulsed by Baháuddin Ayas.

[The Dynasty of Hormuz was founded about 1060 by a Yemen chief Mohammed Dirhem Ko, and remained
subject to Kermán till 1249, when Rokn ed-din Mahmúd III. Kalháti (1242-1277) made himself
independent. The immediate successors of Rokn ed-din were Saif ed-din Nazrat (1277-1290), Masa'úd
(1290-1293), Bahad ed-din Ayaz Sayfin (1293-1311). Hormuz was captured by the Portuguese in
1510 and by the Persians in 1622.--H. C.]

NOTE 7.--The indications of this alternative route to Kermán are very vague, but it may probably
have been that through Finn, Tárum, and the Sírján district, passing out of the plain of Hormuz
by the eastern flank of the Ginao mountain. This road would pass near the hot springs at the
base of the said mountain, Sarga, Khurkhu, and Ginao, which are described by Kämpfer. Being
more or less sulphureous they are likely to be useful in skin-diseases: indeed, Hamilton speaks
of their efficacy in these. (I. 95.) The salt-streams are numerous on this line, and dates
are abundant. The bitterness of the bread was, however, more probably due to another cause,
as Major Smith has kindly pointed out to me: "Throughout the mountains in the south of Persia,
which are generally covered with dwarf oak, the people are in the habit of making bread of
the acorns, or of the acorns mixed with wheat or barley. It is dark in colour, and very hard,
bitter, and unpalatable."

Major St. John also noticed the bitterness of the bread in Kermán, but his servants attributed
it to the presence in the wheat-fields of a bitter leguminous plant, with a yellowish white
flower, which the Kermánis were too lazy to separate, so that much remained in the thrashing,
and imparted its bitter flavour to the grain (surely the Tare of our Lord's Parable!).

[General Houtum-Schindler says (l.c. p. 496): "Marco Polo's return journey was, I am inclined
to think, viâ Urzú and Báft, the shortest and most direct road. The road viâ Tárum and Sírján
is very seldom taken by travellers intending to go to Kermán; it is only frequented by the
caravans going between Bender 'Abbás and Bahrámábád, three stages west of Kermán. Hot springs,
'curing itch,' I noticed at two places on the Urzú-Báft road. There were some near Qal'ah Asgber
and others near Dashtáb; they were frequented by people suffering from skin-diseases, and were
highly sulphureous; the water of those near Dashtáb turned a silver ring black after two hours'
immersion. Another reason of my advocating the Urzú road is that the bitter bread spoken of
by Marco Polo is only found on it, viz. at Báft and in Bardshír. In Sírján, to the west, and
on the roads to the east, the bread is sweet. The bitter taste is from the Khúr, a bitter leguminous
plant, which grows among the wheat, and whose grains the people are too lazy to pick out. There
is not a single oak between Bender 'Abbás and Kermán; none of the inhabitants seemed to know
what an acorn was. A person at Báft, who had once gone to Kerbelá viâ Kermánsháh and Baghdád,
recognised my sketch of tree and fruit immediately, having seen oak and acorn between Kermánsháh
and Qasr-i-Shírín on the Baghdád road." Major Sykes writes (ch. xxiii.): "The above description
undoubtedly refers to the main winter route, which runs viâ Sírján. This is demonstrated by
the fact that under the Kuh-i-Ginao, the summer station of Bandar Abbás, there is a magnificent
sulphur spring, which, welling from an orifice 4 feet in diameter, forms a stream some 30 yards
wide. Its temperature at the source is 113 degrees, and its therapeutic properties are highly
appreciated. As to the bitterness of the bread, it is suggested in the notes that it was caused
by being mixed with acorns, but, to-day at any rate, there are no oak forests in this part
of Persia, and I would urge that it is better to accept our traveller's statement, that it
was due to the bitterness of the water."--However, I prefer Gen. Houtum-Schindler's theory.--H. C.]

[1] It is but fair to say that scholars so eminent as Professors Sprenger
    and Blochmann have considered the original suggestion lawful and
    probable. Indeed, Mr. Blochmann says in a letter: "After studying a
    language for years, one acquires a natural feeling for anything
    un-idiomatic; but I must confess I see nothing un-Persian in
    rúdbár-i-duzd, nor in rúdbár-i-lass.... How common lass is, you
    may see from one fact, that it occurs in children's reading-books." We
    must not take Reobarles in Marco's French as rhyming to (French)
    Charles; every syllable sounds. It is remarkable that Las, as the
    name of a small State near our Sind frontier, is said to mean, "in the
    language of the country," a level plain. (J. A. S. B. VIII. 195.)
    It is not clear what is meant by the language of the country. The
    chief is a Brahui, the people are Lumri or Numri Bilúchis, who are,
    according to Tod, of Jat descent.

[2] Sir Henry Rawlinson objects to this identification (which is the same
    that Dr. Karl Müller adopts), saying that Organa is more probably
    "Angan, formerly Argan." To this I cannot assent. Nearchus sails 300
    stadia from the mouth of Anamis to Oaracta, and on his way passes
    Organa. Taking 600 stadia to the degree (Dr. Müller's value), I make
    it just 300 stadia from the mouth of the Hormuz creek to the eastern
    point of Kishm. Organa must have been either Jerún or Lárek; Angan
    (Hanjám of Mas'udi) is out of the question. And as a straight run
    must have passed quite close to Jerún, not to Larek, I find the former
    most probable. Nearchus next day proceeds 200 stadia along Oaracta,
    and anchors in sight of another island (Neptune's) which was separated
    by 40 stadia from Oaracta. This was Angan; no other island answers,
    and for this the distances answer with singular precision.

[3] Moore refers to Persian Tales.

[4] This tison can be seen in the cuts from the tomb of St. Peter Martyr
    and the seal of Winchelsea.

[5] Spere, bundles of spars, etc., dragged overboard.

CHAPTER XX.

OF THE WEARISOME AND DESERT ROAD THAT HAS NOW TO BE TRAVELLED.

On departing from the city of Kerman you find the road for seven days most wearisome; and I
will tell you how this is.[NOTE 1] The first three days you meet with no water, or next to
none. And what little you do meet with is bitter green stuff, so salt that no one can drink
it; and in fact if you drink a drop of it, it will set you purging ten times at least by the
way. It is the same with the salt which is made from those streams; no one dares to make use
of it, because of the excessive purging which it occasions. Hence it is necessary to carry
water for the people to last these three days; as for the cattle, they must needs drink of
the bad water I have mentioned, as there is no help for it, and their great thirst makes them
do so. But it scours them to such a degree that sometimes they die of it. In all those three
days you meet with no human habitation; it is all desert, and the extremity of drought. Even
of wild beasts there are none, for there is nothing for them to eat.[NOTE 2]

After those three days of desert [you arrive at a stream of fresh water running underground,
but along which there are holes broken in here and there, perhaps undermined by the stream,
at which you can get sight of it. It has an abundant supply, and travellers, worn with the
hardships of the desert, here rest and refresh themselves and their beasts.][NOTE 3]

You then enter another desert which extends for four days; it is very much like the former
except that you do see some wild asses. And at the termination of these four days of desert
the kingdom of Kerman comes to an end, and you find another city which is called Cobinan.

NOTE 1. ["The present road from Kermán to Kúbenán is to Zerend about 50 miles, to the Sár i
Benán 15 miles, thence to Kúbenán 30 miles--total 95 miles. Marco Polo cannot have taken the
direct road to Kúbenán, as it took him seven days to reach it. As he speaks of waterless deserts,
he probably took a circuitous route to the east of the mountains, viâ Kúhpáyeh and the desert
lying to the north of Khabis." (Houtum-Schindler, l.c. pp. 496-497.) (Cf. Major Sykes, ch.
xxiii.)--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--This description of the Desert of Kermán, says Mr. Khanikoff, "is very correct. As
the only place in the Desert of Lút where water is found is the dirty, salt, bitter, and green
water of the rivulet called Shor-Rúd (the Salt River), we can have no doubt of the direction
of Marco Polo's route from Kermán so far." Nevertheless I do not agree with Khanikoff that
the route lay N.E. in the direction of Ambar and Kain, for a reason which will appear under
the next chapter. I imagine the route to have been nearly due north from Kermán, in the direction
of Tabbas or of Tún. And even such a route would, according to Khanikoff's own map, pass the
Shor-Rúd, though at a higher point.

I extract a few lines from that gentleman's narrative: "In proportion as we got deeper into
the desert, the soil became more and more arid; at daybreak I could still discover a few withered
plants of Caligonum and Salsola, and not far from the same spot I saw a lark and another bird
of a whitish colour, the last living things that we beheld in this dismal solitude.... The
desert had now completely assumed the character of a land accursed, as the natives call it.
Not the smallest blade of grass, no indication of animal life vivified the prospect; no sound
but such as came from our own caravan broke the dreary silence of the void." (Mém. p. 176.)

[Major P. Molesworth Sykes (Geog. Jour. X. p. 578) writes: "At Tun, I was on the northern edge
of the great Dash-i-Lut (Naked Desert), which lay between us and Kerman, and which had not
been traversed, in this particular portion, since the illustrious Marco Polo crossed it, in
the opposite direction, when travelling from Kerman to 'Tonocain' viâ Cobinan." Major Sykes
(Persia, ch. iii.) seems to prove that geographers have, without sufficient grounds, divided
the great desert of Persia into two regions, that to the north being termed Dasht-i-Kavir,
and that further south the Dasht-i-Lut--and that Lut is the one name for the whole desert,
Dash-i-Lut being almost a redundancy, and that Kavir (the arabic Kafr) is applied to every
saline swamp. "This great desert stretches from a few miles out of Tehrán practically to the
British frontier, a distance of about 700 miles."--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--I can have no doubt of the genuineness of this passage from Ramusio. Indeed some such
passage is necessary; otherwise why distinguish between three days of desert and four days
more of desert? The underground stream was probably a subterraneous canal (called Kanát or
Kárez), such as is common in Persia; often conducted from a great distance. Here it may have
been a relic of abandoned cultivation. Khanikoff, on the road between Kermán and Yezd, not
far west of that which I suppose Marco to be travelling, says: "At the fifteen inhabited spots
marked upon the map, they have water which has been brought from a great distance, and at considerable
cost, by means of subterranean galleries, to which you descend by large and deep wells. Although
the water flows at some depth, its course is tracked upon the surface by a line of more abundant
vegetation." (Ib. p. 200.) Elphinstone says he has heard of such subterranean conduits 36 miles
in length. (I. 398.) Polybius speaks of them: "There is no sign of water on the surface; but
there are many underground channels, and these supply tanks in the desert, that are known only
to the initiated.... At the time when the Persians got the upper hand in Asia, they used to
concede to such persons as brought spring-water to places previously destitute of irrigation,
the usufruct for five generations. And Taurus being rife with springs, they incurred all the
expense and trouble that was needed to form these underground channels to great distances,
insomuch that in these days even the people who make use of the water don't know where the
channels begin, or whence the water comes." (X. 28.)

CHAPTER XXI.

CONCERNING THE CITY OF COBINAN AND THE THINGS THAT ARE MADE THERE.

Cobinan is a large town.[NOTE 1] The people worship Mahommet. There is much Iron and Steel
and Ondanique, and they make steel mirrors of great size and beauty. They also prepare both
Tutia (a thing very good for the eyes) and Spodium; and I will tell you the process.

They have a vein of a certain earth which has the required quality, and this they put into
a great flaming furnace, whilst over the furnace there is an iron grating. The smoke and moisture,
expelled from the earth of which I speak, adhere to the iron grating, and thus form Tutia,
whilst the slag that is left after burning is the Spodium.[NOTE 2]

NOTE 1.--KUH-BANÁN is mentioned by Mokaddasi (A.D. 985) as one of the cities of Bardesír, the
most northerly of the five circles into which he divides Kermán. (See Sprenger, Post- und Reise-routen
des Orients, p. 77.) It is the subject of an article in the Geog. Dictionary of Yákút, though
it has been there mistranscribed into Kubiyán and Kukiyán. (See Leipzig ed. 1869, iv. p. 316,
and Barbier de Meynard, Dict. de la Perse, p. 498.) And it is also indicated by Mr. Abbott
(J. R. G. S. XXV. 25) as the name of a district of Kermán, lying some distance to the east
of his route when somewhat less than half-way between Yezd and Kermán. It would thus, I apprehend,
be on or near the route between Kermán and Tabbas; one which I believe has been traced by no
modern traveller. We may be certain that there is now no place at Kuh-Banán deserving the title
of une cité grant, nor is it easy to believe that there was in Polo's time; he applies such
terms too profusely. The meaning of the name is perhaps "Hill of the Terebinths, or Wild Pistachioes,"
"a tree which grows abundantly in the recesses of bleak, stony, and desert mountains, e.g.
about Shamákhi, about Shiraz, and in the deserts of Luristan and Lar." (Kämpfer, 409, 413.)

["It is strange that Marco Polo speaks of Kúbenán only on his return journey from Kermán; on
the down journey he must have been told that Kúbenán was in close proximity; it is even probable
that he passed there, as Persian travellers of those times, when going from Kermán to Yazd,
and vice versá, always called at Kúbenán." (Houtum-Schindler, l.c. p. 490.) In all histories
this name is written Kúbenán, not Kúhbenán; the pronunciation to-day is Kóbenán and Kobenún.--H.
C.]

I had thought my identification of Cobinan original, but a communication from Mr. Abbott, and
the opportunity which this procured me of seeing his MS. Report already referred to, showed
that he had anticipated me many years ago. The following is an extract: "Districts of Kerman
* * * Kooh Benan. This is a hilly district abounding in fruits, such as grapes, peaches, pomegranates,
sinjid (sweet-willow), walnuts, melons. A great deal of madder and some asafoetida is produced
there. This is no doubt the country alluded to by Marco Polo, under the name of Cobinam, as
producing iron, brass, and tutty, and which is still said to produce iron, copper, and tootea."
There appear to be lead mines also in the district, as well as asbestos and sulphur. Mr. Abbott
adds the names of nine villages, which he was not able to verify by comparison. These are Púz,
Tarz, Gújard, Aspaj, Kuh-i-Gabr, Dahnah, Búghín, Bassab, Radk. The position of Kuh Banán is
stated to lie between Bahabád (a place also mentioned by Yákút as producing Tutia) and Ráví,
but this does not help us, and for approximate position we can only fall back on the note in
Mr. Abbott's field-book, as published in the J. R. G. S., viz. that the District lay in the
mountains E.S.E. from a caravanserai 10 miles S.E. of Gudran. To get the seven marches of Polo's
Itinerary we must carry the Town of Kuh Banán as far north as this indication can possibly
admit, for Abbott made only five and a half marches from the spot where this observation was
made to Kermán. Perhaps Polo's route deviated for the sake of the fresh water. That a district,
such as Mr. Abbott's Report speaks of, should lie unnoticed, in a tract which our maps represent
as part of the Great Desert, shows again how very defective our geography of Persia still is.

["During the next stage to Darband, we passed ruins that I believe to be those of Marco Polo's
'Cobinan' as the modern Kúhbenán does not at all fit in with the great traveller's description,
and it is just as well to remember that in the East the caravan routes seldom change." (Captain
P. M. Sykes, Geog. Jour. X. p. 580.--See Persia, ch. xxiii.)

Kuh Banán has been visited by Mr. E. Stack, of the Indian Civil Service. (Six Months in Persia,
London, 1882, I. 230.)--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--Tutty (i.e. Tutia) is in modern English an impure oxide of zinc, collected from the
flues where brass is made; and this appears to be precisely what Polo describes, unless it
be that in his account the production of tutia from an ore of zinc is represented as the object
and not an accident of the process. What he says reads almost like a condensed translation
of Galen's account of Pompholyx and Spodos: "Pompholyx is produced in copper-smelting as Cadmia
is; and it is also produced from Cadmia (carbonate of zinc) when put in the furnace, as is
done (for instance) in Cyprus. The master of the works there, having no copper ready for smelting,
ordered some pompholyx to be prepared from cadmia in my presence. Small pieces of cadmia were
thrown into the fire in front of the copper-blast. The furnace top was covered, with no vent
at the crown, and intercepted the soot of the roasted cadmia. This, when collected, constitutes
Pompholyx, whilst that which falls on the hearth is called Spodos, a great deal of which is
got in copper-smelting." Pompholyx, he adds, is an ingredient in salves for eye discharges
and pustules. (Galen, De Simpl. Medic., p. ix. in Latin ed., Venice, 1576.) Matthioli, after
quoting this, says that Pompholyx was commonly known in the laboratories by the Arabic name
of Tutia. I see that pure oxide of zinc is stated to form in modern practice a valuable eye-ointment.

Teixeira speaks of tutia as found only in Kermán, in a range of mountains twelve parasangs
from the capital. The ore got here was kneaded with water, and set to bake in crucibles in
a potter's kiln. When well baked, the crucibles were lifted and emptied, and the tutia carried
in boxes to Hormuz for sale. This corresponds with a modern account in Milburne, which says
that the tutia imported to India from the Gulf is made from an argillaceous ore of zinc, which
is moulded into tubular cakes, and baked to a moderate hardness. The accurate Garcia da Horta
is wrong for once in saying that the tutia of Kermán is no mineral, but the ash of a certain
tree called Goan.

(Matth. on Dioscorides, Ven. 1565, pp. 1338-40; Teixeira, Relacion de Persia, p. 121; Milburne's
Or. Commerce, I. 139; Garcia, f. 21 v.; Eng. Cyc., art. Zinc.)

[General A. Houtum-Schindler (Jour. R. As. Soc. N.S. XIII. October, 1881, p. 497) says: "The
name Tútíá for collyrium is now not used in Kermán. Tútíá, when the name stands alone, is sulphate
of copper, which in other parts of Persia is known as Kát-i-Kebúd; Tútíá-i-sabz (green Tútíá)
is sulphate of iron, also called Záj-i-síyah. A piece of Tútíá-i-zard (yellow Tútíá) shown
to me was alum, generally called Záj-i-safíd; and a piece of Tútíá-í-safíd (white Tútíá) seemed
to be an argillaceous zinc ore. Either of these may have been the earth mentioned by Marco
Polo as being put into the furnace. The lampblack used as collyrium is always called Surmah.
This at Kermán itself is the soot produced by the flame of wicks, steeped in castor oil or
goat's fat, upon earthenware saucers. In the high mountainous districts of the province, Kúbenán,
Páríz, and others, Surmah is the soot of the Gavan plant (Garcia's goan). This plant, a species
of Astragalus, is on those mountains very fat and succulent; from it also exudes the Tragacanth
gum. The soot is used dry as an eye-powder, or, mixed with tallow, as an eye-salve. It is occasionally
collected on iron gratings.

"Tútíá is the Arabicised word dúdhá, Persian for smokes.

"The Shems-ul-loghát calls Tútíá a medicine for eyes, and a stone used for the fabrication
of Surmah. The Tohfeh says Tútíá is of three kinds--yellow and blue mineral Tútíá, Tútíá-i-qalam
(collyrium) made from roots, and Tútíá resulting from the process of smelting copper ore. 'The
best Tútíá-i-qalam comes from Kermán.' It adds, 'Some authors say Surmah is sulphuret of antimony,
others say it is a composition of iron'; I should say any black composition used for the eyes
is Surmah, be it lampblack, antimony, iron, or a mixture of all.

"Teixeira's Tútíá was an impure oxide of zinc, perhaps the above-mentioned Tútíá-i-safíd, baked
into cakes; it was probably the East India Company's Lapis Tútíá, also called Tutty. The Company's
Tutenague and Tutenage, occasionally confounded with Tutty, was the so-called 'Chinese Copper,'
an alloy of copper, zinc, and iron, brought from China."

Major Sykes (ch. xxiii.) writes: "I translated Marco's description of tutia (which is also
the modern Persian name), to a khán of Kubenán, and he assured me that the process was the
same to-day; spodium he knew nothing about, but the sulphate of zinc is found in the hills
to the east of Kubenán."

Heyd (Com. II. p. 675) says in a note: "Il résulte de l'ensemble de ce passage que les matières
désignées par Marco Polo sous le nom de 'espodie' (spodium) étaient des scories métalliques;
en général, le mot spodium désigne les résidus de la combustion des matières végétales ou des
os (de l'ivoire)."--H. C.]

CHAPTER XXII.

OF A CERTAIN DESERT THAT CONTINUES FOR EIGHT DAYS' JOURNEY.

When you depart from this City of Cobinan, you find yourself again in a Desert of surpassing
aridity, which lasts for some eight days; here are neither fruits nor trees to be seen, and
what water there is is bitter and bad, so that you have to carry both food and water. The cattle
must needs drink the bad water, will they nill they, because of their great thirst. At the
end of those eight days you arrive at a Province which is called TONOCAIN. And there, the people
of the country tell you, was fought the battle between Alexander and King Darius.[NOTE 2]

The towns and villages have great abundance of everything good, for the climate is extremely
temperate, being neither very hot nor very cold. The natives all worship Mahommet, and are
a very fine-looking people, especially the women, who are surpassingly beautiful.

NOTE 1.--All that region has been described as "a country divided into deserts that are salt,
and deserts that are not salt." (Vigne, I. 16.) Tonocain, as we have seen (ch. xv. note 1),
is the Eastern Kuhistan of Persia, but extended by Polo, it would seem to include the whole
of Persian Khorasan. No city in particular is indicated as visited by the traveller, but the
view I take of the position of the Arbre Sec, as well as his route through Kuh-Banán, would
lead me to suppose that he reached the Province of TUN-O-KAIN about Tabbas.

["Marco Polo has been said to have traversed a portion of (the Dash-i-Kavir, great Salt Desert)
on his supposed route from Tabbas to Damghan, about 1272; although it is more probable that
he marched further to the east, and crossed the northern portion of the Dash-i-Lut, Great Sand
Desert, separating Khorasan in the south-east from Kermán, and occupying a sorrowful parallelogram
between the towns of Neh and Tabbas on the north, and Kermán and Yezd on the south." (Curzon,
Persia, II. pp. 248 and 251.) Lord Curzon adds in a note (p. 248): "The Tunogan of the text
which was originally mistaken for Damghan, is correctly explained by Yule as Tun-o- (i.e. and)
Káin." Major Sykes writes (ch. xxiii.): "The section of the Lut has not hitherto been rediscovered,
but I know that it is desert throughout, and it is practically certain that Marco ended these
unpleasant experiences at Tabas, 150 miles from Kubenán. To-day the district is known as Tun-o-Tabas,
Káin being independent of it."--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--This is another subject on which a long and somewhat discursive note is inevitable.

One of the Bulletins of the Soc. de Géographie (sér. III. tom. iii. p. 187) contains a perfectly
inconclusive endeavour, by M. Roux de Rochelle, to identify the Arbre Sec or Arbre Sol with
a manna-bearing oak alluded to by Q. Curtius as growing in Hyrcania. There can be no doubt
that the tree described is, as Marsden points out, a Chínár or Oriental Plane. Mr. Ernst Meyer,
in his learned Geschichte der Botanik (Königsberg, 1854-57, IV. 123), objects that Polo's description
of the wood does not answer to that tree. But, with due allowance, compare with his whole account
that which Olearius gives of the Chinar, and say if the same tree be not meant. "The trees
are as tall as the pine, and have very large leaves, closely resembling those of the vine.
The fruit looks like a chestnut, but has no kernel, so it is not eatable. The wood is of a
very brown colour, and full of veins; the Persians employ it for doors and window-shutters,
and when these are rubbed with oil they are incomparably handsomer than our walnut-wood joinery."
(I. 526.) The Chinar-wood is used in Kashmir for gunstocks.

The whole tenor of the passage seems to imply that some eminent individual Chinar is meant.
The appellations given to it vary in the different texts. In the G. T. it is styled in this
passage, "The Arbre Seule which the Christians call the Arbre Sec," whilst in ch. cci. of the
same (infra, Bk. IV. ch. v.) it is called "L'Arbre Sol, which in the Book of Alexander is called
L'Arbre Seche" Pauthier has here "L'Arbre Solque, que nous appelons L'Arbre Sec," and in the
later passage "L'Arbre Soul, que le Livre Alexandre apelle Arbre Sec;" whilst Ramusio has here
"L'Albero del Sole che si chiama per i Cristiani L'Albor Secco," and does not contain the later
passage. So also I think all the old Latin and French printed texts, which are more or less
based on Pipino's version, have "The Tree of the Sun, which the Latins call the Dry Tree."

[G. Capus says (A travers le roy. de Tamerlan, p. 296) that he found at Khodjakent, the remains
of an enormous plane-tree or Chinar, which measured no less than 48 metres (52 yards) in circumference
at the base, and 9 metres diameter inside the rotten trunk; a dozen tourists from Tashkent
one day feasted inside, and were all at ease.--H. C.]

Pauthier, building as usual on the reading of his own text (Solque), endeavours to show that
this odd word represents Thoulk, the Arabic name of a tree to which Forskal gave the title
of Ficus Vasta, and this Ficus Vasta he will have to be the same as the Chinar. Ficus Vasta
would be a strange name surely to give to a Plane-tree, but Forskal may be acquitted of such
an eccentricity. The Tholak (for that seems to be the proper vocalisation) is a tree of Arabia
Felix, very different from the Chinar, for it is the well-known Indian Banyan, or a closely-allied
species, as may be seen in Forskal's description. The latter indeed says that the Arab botanists
called it Delb, and that (or Dulb) is really a synonym for the Chinar. But De Sacy has already
commented upon this supposed application of the name Delb to the Tholak as erroneous. (See
Flora Aegyptiaco-Arabica, pp. cxxiv. and 179; Abdallatif, Rel. de l'Egypte, p. 80; J. R. G.
S. VIII. 275; Ritter, VI. 662, 679.)

The fact is that the Solque of M. Pauthier's text is a mere copyist's error in the reduplication
of the pronoun que. In his chief MS. which he cites as A (No. 10,260 of Bibl. Nationale, now
Fr. 5631) we can even see how this might easily happen, for one line ends with Solque and the
next begins with que. The true reading is, I doubt not, that which this MS. points to, and
which the G. Text gives us in the second passage quoted above, viz. Arbre SOL, occurring in
Ramusio as Albero del SOLE. To make this easier of acceptation I must premise two remarks:
first, that Sol is "the Sun" in both Venetian and Provençal; and, secondly, that in the French
of that age the prepositional sign is not necessary to the genitive. Thus, in Pauthier's own
text we find in one of the passages quoted above, "Le Livre Alexandre, i.e. Liber Alexandri;"
elsewhere, "Cazan le fils Argon," "à la mère sa femme," "Le corps Monseigneur Saint Thomas
si est en ceste Province;" in Joinville, "le commandemant Mahommet" "ceux de la Haulequa estoient
logiez entour les héberges le soudanc, et establiz pour le cors le soudanc garder;" in Baudouin
de Sebourc, "De l'amour Bauduin esprise et enflambée."

Moreover it is the TREE OF THE SUN that is prominent in the legendary History of Alexander,
a fact sufficient in itself to rule the reading. A character in an old English play says:--

    "Peregrine. Drake was a didapper to Mandevill:
  Candish and Hawkins, Frobisher, all our Voyagers
  Went short of Mandevil. But had he reached
  To this place--here--yes, here--this wilderness,
  And seen the Trees of the Sun and Moon, that speak
  And told King Alexander of his death;
  He then
  Had left a passage ope to Travellers
  That now is kept and guarded by Wild Beasts."
      (Broome's Antipodes, in Lamb's Specimens.)

The same trees are alluded to in an ancient Low German poem in honour of St. Anno of Cologne.
Speaking of the Four Beasts of Daniel's Vision:--

  "The third beast was a Libbard;
  Four Eagle's Wings he had;
  This signified the Grecian Alexander,
  Who with four Hosts went forth to conquer lands
  Even to the World's End,
  Known by its Golden Pillars.
  In India he the Wilderness broke through
  With Trees twain he there did speak," etc.
      (In Schilteri Thesaurus Antiq. Teuton. tom. i.[1])

These oracular Trees of the Sun and Moon, somewhere on the confines of India, appear in all
the fabulous histories of Alexander, from the Pseudo-Callisthenes downwards. Thus Alexander
is made to tell the story in a letter to Aristotle: "Then came some of the towns-people and
said, 'We have to show thee something passing strange, O King, and worth thy visiting; for
we can show thee trees that talk with human speech.' So they led me to a certain park, in the
midst of which were the Sun and Moon, and round about them a guard of priests of the Sun and
Moon. And there stood the two trees of which they had spoken, like unto cypress trees; and
round about them were trees like the myrobolans of Egypt, and with similar fruit. And I addressed
the two trees that were in the midst of the park, the one which was male in the Masculine gender,
and the one that was female in the Feminine gender. And the name of the Male Tree was the Sun,
and of the female Tree the Moon, names which were in that language Muthu and Emausae.[2] And
the stems were clothed with the skins of animals; the male tree with the skins of he-beasts,
and the female tree with the skins of she-beasts.... And at the setting of the Sun, a voice,
speaking in the Indian tongue, came forth from the (Sun) Tree; and I ordered the Indians who
were with me to interpret it. But they were afraid and would not," etc. (Pseudo-Callisth. ed.
Müller, III. 17.)

The story as related by Firdusi keeps very near to the Greek as just quoted, but does not use
the term "Tree of the Sun." The chapter of the Sháh Námeh containing it is entitled Dídan Sikandar
dirakht-i-goyárá, "Alexander's interview with the Speaking Tree." (Livre des Rois, V. 229.)
In the Chanson d'Alixandre of Lambert le Court and Alex. de Bernay, these trees are introduced
as follows:--

  "'Signor,' fait Alixandre, 'je vus voel demander,
  Se des merveilles d'Inde me saves rien conter.'
  Cil li ont respondu: 'Se tu vius escouter
  Ja te dirons merveilles, s'es poras esprover.
  La sus en ces desers pues ii Arbres trover
  Qui c pies ont de haut, et de grossor sunt per.
  Li Solaus et La Lune les ont fait si serer
  Que sevent tous langages et entendre et parler.'"
      (Ed. 1861 (Dinan), p. 357.)

Maundevile informs us precisely where these trees are: "A 15 journeys in lengthe, goynge be
the Deserts of the tother side of the Ryvere Beumare," if one could only tell where that is![3]
A mediaeval chronicler also tells us that Ogerus the Dane (temp. Caroli Magni) conquered all
the parts beyond sea from Hierusalem to the Trees of the Sun. In the old Italian romance also
of Guerino detto il Meschino, still a chapbook in S. Italy, the Hero (ch. lxiii.) visits the
Trees of the Sun and Moon. But this is mere imitation of the Alexandrian story, and has nothing
of interest. (Maundevile, pp. 297-298; Fasciculus Temporum in Germ. Script. Pistorii Nidani, II.)

It will be observed that the letter ascribed to Alexander describes the two oracular trees
as resembling two cypress-trees. As such the Trees of the Sun and Moon are represented on several
extant ancient medals, e.g. on two struck at Perga in Pamphylia in the time of Aurelian. And
Eastern story tells us of two vast cypress-trees, sacred among the Magians, which grew in Khorasan,
one at Kashmar near Turshiz, and the other at Farmad near Tuz, and which were said to have
risen from shoots that Zoroaster brought from Paradise. The former of these was sacrilegiously
cut down by the order of the Khalif Motawakkil, in the 9th century. The trunk was despatched
to Baghdad on rollers at a vast expense, whilst the branches alone formed a load for 1300 camels.
The night that the convoy reached within one stage of the palace, the Khalif was cut in pieces
by his own guards. This tree was said to be 1450 years old, and to measure 33-3/4 cubits in
girth. The locality of this "Arbor Sol" we see was in Khorasan, and possibly its fame may have
been transferred to a representative of another species. The plane, as well as the cypress,
was one of the distinctive trees of the Magian Paradise.

In the Peutingerian Tables we find in the N.E. of Asia the rubric "Hic Alexander Responsum
accepit," which looks very like an allusion to the tale of the Oracular Trees. If so, it is
remarkable as a suggestion of the antiquity of the Alexandrian Legends, though the rubric may
of course be an interpolation. The Trees of the Sun and Moon appear as located in India Ultima
to the east of Persia, in a map which is found in MSS. (12th century) of the Floridus of Lambertus;
and they are indicated more or less precisely in several maps of the succeeding centuries.
(Ouseley's Travels, I. 387; Dabistan, I. 307-308; Santarem, H. de la Cosmog. II. 189, III.
506-513, etc.)

Nothing could show better how this legend had possessed men in the Middle Ages than the fact
that Vincent of Beauvais discerns an allusion to these Trees of the Sun and Moon in the blessing
of Moses on Joseph (as it runs in the Vulgate), "de pomis fructuum Solis ac Lunae." (Deut.
xxxiii. 14.)

Marco has mixt up this legend of the Alexandrian Romance, on the authority, as we shall see
reason to believe, of some of the recompilers of that Romance, with a famous subject of Christian
Legend in that age, the ARBRE SEC or Dry Tree, one form of which is related by Maundevile and
by Johan Schiltberger. "A lytille fro Ebron," says the former, "is the Mount of Mambre, of
the whyche the Valeye taketh his name. And there is a Tree of Oke that the Saracens clepen
Dirpe, that is of Abraham's Tyme, the which men clepen THE DRYE TREE." Indeed even before Maundevile's
time Friar Burchard (1283) had noticed that though the famous old tree was dry, another had
sprung from its roots. And it still has a representative.

As long ago as the time of Constantine a fair was held under the Terebinth of Mamre, which
was the object of many superstitious rites and excesses. The Emperor ordered these to be put
a stop to, and a church to be erected at the spot. In the time of Arculph (end of 7th century)
the dry trunk still existed under the roof of this church; just as the immortal Banyan-tree
of Prág exists to this day in a subterranean temple in the Fort of Allahabad.

It is evident that the story of the Dry Tree had got a great vogue in the 13th century. In
the Jus du Pelerin, a French drama of Polo's age, the Pilgrim says:--

  "S'ai puis en maint bon lieu et à maint saint esté,
  S'ai esté au Sec-Arbre et dusc'à Duresté."

And in another play of slightly earlier date (Le Jus de St. Nicolas), the King of Africa, invaded
by the Christians, summons all his allies and feudatories, among whom appear the Admirals of
Coine (Iconium) and Orkenie (Hyrcania), and the Amiral d'outre l'Arbre-Sec (as it were of "the
Back of Beyond") in whose country the only current coin is millstones! Friar Odoric tells us
that he heard at Tabriz that the Arbor Secco existed in a mosque of that city; and Clavijo
relates a confused story about it in the same locality. Of the Dürre Baum at Tauris there is
also a somewhat pointless legend in a Cologne MS. of the 14th century, professing to give an
account of the East. There are also some curious verses concerning a mystical Dürre Bom quoted
by Fabricius from an old Low German Poem; and we may just allude to that other mystic Arbor
Secco of Dante--

    --"una pianta dispogliata
  Di fiori e d'altra fronda in ciascun ramo,"

though the dark symbolism in the latter case seems to have a different bearing.

(Maundevile, p. 68; Schiltberger, p. 113; Anselm. in Canisii Thesaurus, IV. 781; Pereg. Quat.
p. 81; Niceph. Callist. VIII. 30; Théâtre Français au Moyen Age, pp. 97, 173; Cathay, p. 48;
Clavijo, p. 90; Orient und Occident, Göttingen, 1867, vol. i.; Fabricii Vet. Test. Pseud.,
etc., I. 1133; Dante, Purgat. xxxii. 35.)

But why does Polo bring this Arbre Sec into connection with the Sun Tree of the Alexandrian
Legend? I cannot answer this to my own entire satisfaction, but I can show that such a connection
had been imagined in his time.

Paulin Paris, in a notice of MS. No. 6985. (Fonds Ancien) of the National Library, containing
a version of the Chansons de Geste d'Alixandre, based upon the work of L. Le Court and Alex.
de Bernay, but with additions of later date, notices amongst these latter the visit of Alexander
to the Valley Perilous, where he sees a variety of wonders, among others the Arbre des Pucelles.
Another tree at a great distance from the last is called the ARBRE SEC, and reveals to Alexander
the secret of the fate which attends him in Babylon. (Les MSS. Français de la Bibl. du Roi,
III. 105.)[4] Again the English version of King Alisaundre, published in Weber's Collection,
shows clearly enough that in its French original the term Arbre Sec was applied to the Oracular
Trees, though the word has been miswritten, and misunderstood by Weber. The King, as in the
Greek and French passages already quoted, meeting two old churls, asks if they know of any
marvel in those parts:--

  "'Ye, par ma fay,' quoth heo,
  'A great merveille we wol telle the;
  That is hennes in even way
  The mountas of ten daies journey,
  Thou shalt find trowes[5] two:
  Seyntes and holy they buth bo;
  Higher than in othir countray all.
  ARBESET men heom callith.'
    *    *    *    *    *
  'Sire Kyng,' quod on, 'by myn eyghe
  Either Trough is an hundrod feet hygh,
  They stondith up into the skye;
  That on to the Sonne, sikirlye;
  That othir, we tellith the nowe,
  Is sakret in the Mone vertue.'"
      (Weber, I. 277.)

Weber's glossary gives "Arbeset = Strawberry Tree, arbous, arbousier, arbutus"; but that is
nonsense.

Further, in the French Prose Romance of Alexander, which is contained in the fine volume in
the British Museum known as the Shrewsbury Book (Reg. XV. e. 6), though we do not find the
Arbre Sec so named, we find it described and pictorially represented. The Romance (fol. xiiii.
v.) describes Alexander and his chief companions as ascending a certain mountain by 2500 steps
which were attached to a golden chain. At the top they find the golden Temple of the Sun and
an old man asleep within. It goes on:--

"Quant le viellart les vit si leur demanda s'ils vouloient veoir les Arbres sacrez de la Lune
et du Soleil que nous annuncent les choses qui sont à avenir. Quant Alexandre ouy ce si fut
rempli de mult grant ioye. Si lui respondirent, 'Ouye sur, nous les voulons veoir.' Et cil
lui dist, 'Se tu es nez de prince malle et de femelle il te convient entrer en celui lieu.'
Et Alexandre lui respondi, 'Nous somes nez de compagne malle et de femelle.' Dont se leve le
viellart du lit ou il gesoit, et leur dist, 'Hostez vos vestemens et vos chauces.' Et Tholomeus
et Antigonus et Perdiacas le suivrent. Lors comencèrent à aler parmy la forest qui estoit enclose
en merveilleux labour. Illec trouvèrent les arbres semblables à loriers et oliviers. Et estoient
de cent pies de haults, et decouroit d'eulz incens ypobaume[6] à grant quantité. Après entrèrent
plus avant en la forest, et trouvèrent une arbre durement hault qui n'avoit ne fueille ne fruit.
Si seoit sur cet arbre une grant oysel qui avoit en son chief une creste qui estoit semblable
au paon, et les plumes du col resplendissants come fin or. Et avoit la couleur de rose. Dont
lui dist le viellart, 'Cet oysel dont vous vous merveillez est appelés Fenis, lequel n'a nul
pareil en tout le monde.' Dont passèrent outre, et allèrent aux Arbres du Soleil et de la Lune.
Et quant ils y furent venus, si leur dist le viellart, 'Regardez en haut, et pensez en votre
coeur ce que vous vouldrez demander, et ne le dites de la bouche.' Alisandre luy demanda en
quel language donnent les Arbres response aux gens. Et il lui respondit, 'L'Arbre du Soleil
commence à parler Indien.' Dont baisa Alexandre les arbres, et comença en son ceur à penser
s'il conquesteroit tout le monde et retourneroit en Macedonie atout son ost. Dont lui respondit
l'Arbre du Soleil, 'Alexandre tu seras Roy de tout le monde, mais Macedonie tu ne verras jamais,'"
etc.

The appearance of the Arbre Sec in Maps of the 15th century, such as those of Andrea Bianco
(1436) and Fra Mauro (1459), may be ascribed to the influence of Polo's own work; but a more
genuine evidence of the prevalence of the legend is found in the celebrated Hereford Map constructed
in the 13th century by Richard de Haldingham. This, in the vicinity of India and the Terrestrial
Paradise, exhibits a Tree with the rubric "Albor Balsami est Arbor Sicca."

The legends of the Dry Tree were probably spun out of the words of the Vulgate in Ezekiel xvii.
24: "Humiliavi lignum sublime et exaltavi lignum humile; et siccavi lignum viride et frondescere
feci lignum aridum." Whether the Rue de l'Arbre Sec in Paris derives its name from the legend
I know not. [The name of the street is taken from an old sign-board; some say it is derived
from the gibbet placed in the vicinity, but this is more than doubtful.--H. C.]

The actual tree to which Polo refers in the text was probably one of those so frequent in Persia,
to which age, position, or accident has attached a character of sanctity, and which are styled
Dirakht-i-Fazl, Trees of Excellence or Grace, and often receive titles appropriate to Holy
Persons. Vows are made before them, and pieces torn from the clothes of the votaries are hung
upon the branches or nailed to the trunks. To a tree of such a character, imposing in decay,
Lucan compares Pompey:

    "Stat magni nominis umbra.
      (Pharsalia, I. 135.)

The Tree of Mamre was evidently precisely one of this class; and those who have crossed the
Suez Desert before railway days will remember such a Dirakht-i-Fazl, an aged mimosa, a veritable
Arbre Seul (could we accept that reading), that stood just half-way across the Desert, streaming
with the exuviae veteres of Mecca Pilgrims. The majority of such holy trees in Persia appear
to be Plane-trees. Admiration for the beauty of this tree seems to have occasionally risen
into superstitious veneration from a very old date. Herodotus relates that the Carians, after
their defeat by the Persians on the Marsyas, rallied in the sacred grove of Plane-trees at
Labranda. And the same historian tells how, some years later, Xerxes on his march to Greece
decorated a beautiful Chinar with golden ornaments. Mr. Hamilton, in the same region, came
on the remains of a giant of the species, which he thought might possibly be the very same.
Pliny rises to enthusiasm in speaking of some noble Plane-trees in Lycia and elsewhere. Chardin
describes one grand and sacred specimen, called King Hosain's Chinar, and said to be more than
1000 years old, in a suburb of Ispahan, and another hung with amulets, rags, and tapers in
a garden at Shiraz.[7] One sacred tree mentioned by the Persian geographer Hamd Allah as distinguishing
the grave of a holy man at Bostam in Khorasan (the species is not named, at least by Ouseley,
from whom I borrow this) comes into striking relation with the passage in our text. The story
went that it had been the staff of Mahomed; as such it had been transmitted through many generations,
until it was finally deposited in the grave of Abu Abdallah Dásitáni, where it struck root
and put forth branches. And it is explicitly called Dirakht-i-Khushk, i.e. literally L'ARBRE SEC.

This last legend belongs to a large class. The staff of Adam, which was created in the twilight
of the approaching Sabbath, was bestowed on him in Paradise and handed down successively to
Enoch and the line of Patriarchs. After the death of Joseph it was set in Jethro's garden,
and there grew untouched, till Moses came and got his rod from it. In another form of the legend
it is Seth who gets a branch of the Tree of Life, and from this Moses afterwards obtains his
rod of power. These Rabbinical stories seem in later times to have been developed into the
Christian legends of the wood destined to form the Cross, such as they are told in the Golden
Legend or by Godfrey of Viterbo, and elaborated in Calderon's Sibila del Oriente. Indeed, as
a valued friend who has consulted the latter for me suggests, probably all the Arbre Sec Legends
of Christendom bore mystic reference to the Cross. In Calderon's play the Holy Rood, seen in
vision, is described as a Tree:--

    ----"cuyas hojas,
  Secas mustias y marchitas,
  Desnudo el tronco dejaban
  Que, entre mil copas floridas
  De los árboles, el solo
  Sin pompa y sin bizaria
  Era cadáver del prado."

There are several Dry-Tree stories among the wonders of Buddhism; one is that of a sacred tree
visited by the Chinese pilgrims to India, which had grown from the twig which Sakya, in Hindu
fashion, had used as a tooth-brush; and I think there is a like story in our own country of
the Glastonbury Thorn having grown from the staff of Joseph of Arimathea.

["St Francis' Church is a large pile, neere which, yet a little without the Citty, growes a
tree which they report in their legend grew from the Saint's Staff, which on going to sleepe
he fixed in the ground, and at his waking found it had grown a large tree. They affirm that
the wood of its decoction cures sundry diseases." (Evelyn's Diary, October, 1644.)--H. C.]

In the usual form of the mediaeval legend, Adam, drawing near his end, sends Seth to the gate
of Paradise, to seek the promised Oil of Mercy. The Angel allows Seth to put his head in at
the gate. Doing so (as an old English version gives it)--

                                       --"he saw a fair Well,
  Of whom all the waters on earth cometh, as the Book us doth tell;
  Over the Well stood a Tree, with bowës broad and lere
  Ac it ne bare leaf ne rind, but as it for-olded were;
  A nadder it had beclipt about, all naked withouten skin,
  That was the Tree and the Nadder that first made Adam do sin!"

The Adder or Serpent is coiled about the denuded stem; the upper branches reach to heaven,
and bear at the top a new-born wailing infant, swathed in linen, whilst (here we quote a French
version)--

  "Les larmes qui de lui issoient
  Contreval l'Arbre en avaloient;
  Adonc regarda l'enfant Seth
  Tout contreval de L'ARBRE SECQ;
  Les rachines qui le tenoient
  Jusques en Enfer s'en aloient,
  Les larmes qui de lui issirent
  Jusques dedans Enfer cheïrent."

The Angel gives Seth three kernels from the fruit of the Tree. Seth returns home and finds
his father dead. He buries him in the valley of Hebron, and places the three grains under his
tongue. A triple shoot springs up of Cedar, Cypress, and Pine, symbolising the three Persons
of the Trinity. The three eventually unite into one stem, and this tree survives in various
forms, and through various adventures in connection with the Scripture History, till it is
found at the bottom of the Pool of Bethesda, to which it had imparted healing Virtue, and is
taken thence to form the Cross on which Our Lord suffered.

The English version quoted above is from a MS. of the 14th century in the Bodleian, published
by Dr. Morris in his collection of Legends of the Holy Rood. I have modernised the spelling
of the lines quoted, without altering the words. The French citation is from a MS. in the Vienna
Library, from which extracts are given by Sign. Adolfo Mussafia in his curious and learned
tract (Sulla Legenda del Legno della Croce, Vienna, 1870), which gives a full account of the
fundamental legend and its numerous variations. The examination of these two works, particularly
Sign. Mussafia's, gives an astonishing impression of the copiousness with which such Christian
Mythology, as it may fairly be called, was diffused and multiplied. There are in the paper
referred to notices of between fifty and sixty different works (not MSS. or copies of works
merely) containing this legend in various European languages.

(Santarem, III. 380, II. 348; Ouseley, I. 359 seqq. and 391; Herodotus, VII. 31; Pliny, XII.
5; Chardin, VII. 410, VIII. 44 and 426; Fabricius, Vet. Test. Pseud. I. 80 seqq.; Cathay, p.
365; Beal's Fah-Hian, 72 and 78; Pèlerins Bouddhistes, II. 292; Della Valle, II. 276-277.)

He who injured the holy tree of Bostam, we are told, perished the same day: a general belief
in regard to those Trees of Grace, of which we have already seen instances in regard to the
sacred trees of Zoroaster and the Oak of Hebron. We find the same belief in Eastern Africa,
where certain trees, regarded by the natives with superstitious reverence, which they express
by driving in votive nails and suspending rags, are known to the European residents by the
vulgar name of Devil Trees. Burton relates a case of the verification of the superstition in
the death of an English merchant who had cut down such a tree, and of four members of his household.
It is the old story which Ovid tells; and the tree which Erisichthon felled was a Dirakht-i-Fazl:

    "Vittae mediam, memoresque tabellae
  Sertaque cingebant, voti argumenta potentis."
      (Metamorph. VIII. 744.)

Though the coincidence with our text of Hamd Allah's Dry Tree is very striking, I am not prepared
to lay stress on it as an argument for the geographical determination of Marco's Arbre Sec.
His use of the title more than once to characterise the whole frontier of Khorasan can hardly
have been a mere whim of his own: and possibly some explanation of that circumstance will yet
be elicited from the Persian historians or geographers of the Mongol era.

Meanwhile it is in the vicinity of Bostam or Damghan that I should incline to place this landmark.
If no one very cogent reason points to this, a variety of minor ones do so; such as the direction
of the traveller's journey from Kermán through Kuh Banán; the apparent vicinity of a great
Ismailite fortress, as will be noticed in the next chapter; the connection twice indicated
(see Prologue, ch. xviii. note 6, and Bk. IV. ch. v.) of the Arbre Sec with the headquarters
of Ghazan Khan in watching the great passes, of which the principal ones debouche at Bostam,
at which place also buildings erected by Ghazan still exist; and the statement that the decisive
battle between Alexander and Darius was placed there by local tradition. For though no such
battle took place in that region, we know that Darius was murdered near Hecatompylos. Some
place this city west of Bostam, near Damghan; others east of it, about Jah Jerm; Ferrier has
strongly argued for the vicinity of Bostam itself. Firdusi indeed places the final battle on
the confines of Kermán, and the death of Darius within that province. But this could not have
been the tradition Polo met with.

I may add that the temperate climate of Bostam is noticed in words almost identical with Polo's
by both Fraser and Ferrier.

The Chinar abounds in Khorasan (as far as any tree can be said to abound in Persia), and even
in the Oases of Tun-o-Kain wherever there is water. Travellers quoted by Ritter notice Chinars
of great size and age at Shahrúd, near Bostam, at Meyomid, and at Mehr, west of Sabzawar, which
last are said to date from the time of Naoshirwan (7th century). There is a town to the N.W.
of Meshid called Chinárán, "The Planes." P. Della Valle, we may note, calls Tehran "la città
dei platani."

The following note by De Sacy regarding the Chinar has already been quoted by Marsden, and
though it may be doubtful whether the term Arbre Sec had any relation to the idea expressed,
it seems to me too interesting to be omitted: "Its sterility seems to have become proverbial
among certain people of the East. For in a collection of sundry moral sentences pertaining
to the Sabaeans or Christians of St. John ... we find the following: 'The vainglorious man
is like a showy Plane Tree, rich in boughs but producing nothing, and affording no fruit to
its owner.'" The same reproach of sterility is cast at the Plane by Ovid's Walnut:--

  "At postquam platanis, sterilem praebentibus umbram,
    Uberior quâvis arbore venit honos;
  Nos quoque fructiferae, si nux modo ponor in illis,
    Coepimus in patulas luxuriare comas." (Nux, 17-20.)

I conclude with another passage from Khanikoff, though put forward in special illustration
of what I believe to be a mistaken reading (Arbre Seul): "Where the Chinar is of spontaneous
growth, or occupies the centre of a vast and naked plain, this tree is even in our own day
invested with a quite exceptional veneration, and the locality often comes to be called 'The
Place of the Solitary Tree.'" (J. R. G. S. XXIX. 345; Ferrier, 69-76; Fraser, 343; Ritter,
VIII. 332, XI. 512 seqq.; Della Valle, I. 703; De Sacy's Abdallatif, p. 81; Khanikoff, Not. p. 38.)

[See in Fr. Zarncke, Der Priester Johannes, II., in the chap. Der Baum des Seth, pp. 127-128,
from MS. (14th century) from Cambridge, this curious passage (p. 128): "Tandem rogaverunt eum,
ut arborem siccam, de qua multum saepe loqui audierant, liceret videre. Quibus dicebat: 'Non
est appellata arbor sicca recto nomine, sed arbor Seth, quoniam Seth, filius Adae, primi patris
nostri, eam plantavit.' Et ad arborem Seth fecit eos ducere, prohibens eos, ne arborem transmearent,
sed [si?] ad patriam suam redire desiderarent. Et cum appropinquassent, de pulcritudine arboris
mirati sunt; erat enim magnae immensitatis et miri decoris. Omnium enim colorum varietas inerat
arbori, condensitas foliorum et fructuum diversorum; diversitas avium omnium, quae sub coelo
sunt. Folia vero invicem se repercutientia dulcissimae melodiae modulamine resonabant, et aves
amoenos cantus ultra quam credi potest promebant; et odor suavissimus profudit eos, ita quod
paradisi amoenitate fuisse. Et cum admirantes tantam pulcritudinem aspicerent, unus sociorum
aliquo eorum maior aetate, cogitans [cogitavit?] intra se, quod senior esset et, si inde rediret,
cito aliquo casu mori posset. Et cum haec secum cogitasset, coepit arborem transire, et cum
transisset, advocans socios, iussit eos post se ad locum amoenissimum, quem ante se videbat
plenum deliciis sibi paratum [paratis?] festinare. At illi retrogressi sunt ad regem, scilicet
presbiterum Iohannem. Quos donis amplis ditavit, et qui cum eo morari voluerunt libenter et
honorifice detinuit. Alii vero ad patriam reversi sunt."--In common with Marsden and Yule,
I have no doubt that the Arbre Sec is the Chínár. Odoric places it at Tabriz and I have given
a very lengthy dissertation on the subject in my edition of this traveller (pp. 21-29), to
which I must refer the reader, to avoid increasing unnecessarily the size of the present publication.--H.
C.]

[1]   "Daz dritte Dier was ein Lebarte
      Vier arin Vederich her havite;
      Der beceichnote den Criechiskin Alexanderin,
      Der mit vier Herin vür aftir Landin,
      Unz her die Werilt einde,
      Bi guldinin Siulin bikante.
      In Indea her die Wusti durchbrach,
      Mit zwein Boumin her sich da gesprach," etc.

[2] It is odd how near the word Emausae comes to the E. African Mwezi;
    and perhaps more odd that "the elders of U-nya-Mwezi ('the Land of the
    Moon') declare that their patriarchal ancestor became after death the
    first Tree, and afforded shade to his children and descendants.
    According to the Arabs the people still perform pilgrimage to a holy
    tree, and believe that the penalty of sacrilege in cutting off a twig
    would be visited by sudden and mysterious death." (Burton in F. R.
    G. S. XXIX. 167-168.)

[3] "The River Buemar, in the furthest forests of India," appears
    to come up in one of the versions of Alexander's Letter to Aristotle,
    though I do not find it in Müller's edition. (See Zacher's
    Pseudo-Callisthenes, p. 160.) 'Tis perhaps Ab-i-Ámú!

[4] It is right to notice that there may be some error in the reference
    of Paulin Paris; at least I could not trace the Arbre Sec in the MS.
    which he cites, nor in the celebrated Bodleian Alexander, which
    appears to contain the same version of the story. [The fact is that
    Paulin Paris refers to the Arbre, but without the word sec, at the
    top of the first column of fol. 79 recto of the MS. No. Fr. 368
    (late 6985).--H. C.]

[5] Trees.

[6] Opobalsamum.

[7] A recent traveler in China gives a perfectly similar description of
    sacred trees in Shansi. Many bore inscriptions in large letters. "If
    you pray, you will certainly be heard."--Rev. A. Williamson,
    Journeys in N. China, I. 163, where there is a cut of such a tree
    near Taiyuanfu. (See this work, I. ch. xvi.) Mr. Williamson describes
    such a venerated tree, an ancient acacia, known as the Acacia of the
    T'ang, meaning that it existed under that Dynasty (7th to 10th
    century). It is renowned for its healing virtues, and every available
    spot on its surface was crowded with votive tablets and inscriptions.
    (Ib. 303.)

CHAPTER XXIII.

CONCERNING THE OLD MAN OF THE MOUNTAIN.

Mulehet is a country in which the Old Man of the Mountain dwelt in former days; and the name
means "Place of the Aram." I will tell you his whole history as related by Messer Marco Polo,
who heard it from several natives of that region.

The Old Man was called in their language ALOADIN. He had caused a certain valley between two
mountains to be enclosed, and had turned it into a garden, the largest and most beautiful that
ever was seen, filled with every variety of fruit. In it were erected pavilions and palaces
the most elegant that can be imagined, all covered with gilding and exquisite painting. And
there were runnels too, flowing freely with wine and milk and honey and water; and numbers
of ladies and of the most beautiful damsels in the world, who could play on all manner of instruments,
and sung most sweetly, and danced in a manner that it was charming to behold. For the Old Man
desired to make his people believe that this was actually Paradise. So he had fashioned it
after the description that Mahommet gave of his Paradise, to wit, that it should be a beautiful
garden running with conduits of wine and milk and honey and water, and full of lovely women
for the delectation of all its inmates. And sure enough the Saracens of those parts believed
that it was Paradise!

Now no man was allowed to enter the Garden save those whom he intended to be his ASHISHIN.
There was a Fortress at the entrance to the Garden, strong enough to resist all the world,
and there was no other way to get in. He kept at his Court a number of the youths of the country,
from 12 to 20 years of age, such as had a taste for soldiering, and to these he used to tell
tales about Paradise, just as Mahommet had been wont to do, and they believed in him just as
the Saracens believe in Mahommet. Then he would introduce them into his garden, some four,
or six, or ten at a time, having first made them drink a certain potion which cast them into
a deep sleep, and then causing them to be lifted and carried in. So when they awoke, they found
themselves in the Garden.[NOTE 1]

NOTE 1.--Says the venerable Sire de Joinville: "Le Vieil de la Montaingne ne créoit pas en
Mahommet, ainçois créoit en la Loi de Haali, qui fu Oncle Mahommet." This is a crude statement,
no doubt, but it has a germ of truth. Adherents of the family of 'Ali as the true successors
of the Prophet existed from the tragical day of the death of Husain, and among these, probably
owing to the secrecy with which they were compelled to hold their allegiance, there was always
a tendency to all manner of strange and mystical doctrines; as in one direction to the glorification
of 'Ali as a kind of incarnation of the Divinity, a character in which his lineal representatives
were held in some manner to partake; in another direction to the development of Pantheism,
and release from all positive creed and precepts. Of these Aliites, eventually called Shiáhs,
a chief sect, and parent of many heretical branches, were the Ismailites, who took their name,
from the seventh Imam, whose return to earth they professed to expect at the end of the World.
About A.D. 1090 a branch of the Ismaili stock was established by Hassan, son of Sabah, in the
mountainous districts of Northern Persia; and, before their suppression by the Mongols, 170
years later, the power of the quasi-spiritual dynasty which Hassan founded had spread over
the Eastern Kohistan, at least as far as Káïn. Their headquarters were at Alamút ("Eagle's
Nest"), about 32 miles north-east of Kazwin, and all over the territory which they held they
established fortresses of great strength. De Sacy seems to have proved that they were called
Hashíshíya or Hashíshín, from their use of the preparation of hemp called Hashísh; and thence,
through their system of murder and terrorism, came the modern application of the word Assassin.
The original aim of this system was perhaps that of a kind of Vehmgericht, to punish or terrify
orthodox persecutors who were too strong to be faced with the sword. I have adopted in the
text one of the readings of the G. Text Asciscin, as expressing the original word with the
greatest accuracy that Italian spelling admits. In another author we find it as Chazisii (see
Bollandists, May, vol. ii. p. xi.); Joinville calls them Assacis; whilst Nangis and others
corrupt the name into Harsacidae, and what not.

The explanation of the name MULEHET as it is in Ramusio, or Mulcete as it is in the G. Text
(the last expressing in Rusticiano's Pisan tongue the strongly aspirated Mulhete), is given
by the former: "This name of Mulehet is as much as to say in the Saracen tongue 'The Abode
of Heretics,'" the fact being that it does represent the Arabic term Mulhid, pl. Muláhidah,
"Impii, heretici," which is in the Persian histories (as of Rashíduddín and Wassáf) the title
most commonly used to indicate this community, and which is still applied by orthodox Mahomedans
to the Nosairis, Druses, and other sects of that kind, more or less kindred to the Ismaili.
The writer of the Tabakat-i-Násiri calls the sectarians of Alamút Muláhidat-ul-maut, "Heretics
of Death."[1] The curious reading of the G. Text which we have preserved "vaut à dire des Aram,"
should be read as we have rendered it. I conceive that Marco was here unconsciously using one
Oriental term to explain another. For it seems possible to explain Aram only as standing for
Harám, in the sense of "wicked" or "reprobate."

In Pauthier's Text, instead of des aram, we find "veult dire en françois Diex Terrien," or
Terrestrial God. This may have been substituted, in the correction of the original rough dictation,
from a perception that the first expression was unintelligible. The new phrase does not indeed
convey the meaning of Muláhidah, but it expresses a main characteristic of the heretical doctrine.
The correction was probably made by Polo himself; it is certainly of very early date. For in
the romance of Bauduin de Sebourc, which I believe dates early in the 14th century, the Caliph,
on witnessing the extraordinary devotion of the followers of the Old Man (see note 1, ch. xxiv.),
exclaims:

  "Par Mahon ...
  Vous estes Diex en terre, autre coze n'i a!" (I. p. 360.)

So also Fr. Jacopo d'Aqui in the Imago Mundi, says of the Assassins: "Dicitur iis quod sunt
in Paradiso magno Dei Terreni"--expressions, no doubt, taken in both cases from Polo's book.

Khanikoff, and before him J. R. Forster, have supposed that the name Mulehet represents Alamút.
But the resemblance is much closer and more satisfactory to Mulhid or Muláhidah. Mulhet is
precisely the name by which the kingdom of the Ismailites is mentioned in Armenian history,
and Mulihet is already applied in the same way by Rabbi Benjamin in the 12th century, and by
Rubruquis in the 13th. The Chinese narrative of Hulaku's expedition calls it the kingdom of
Mulahi. (Joinville, p. 138; J. As. sér. II., tom. xii. 285; Benj. Tudela, p. 106; Rub. p. 265;
Rémusat, Nouv. Mélanges, I. 176; Gaubil, p. 128; Pauthier, pp. cxxxix.-cxli.; Mon. Hist. Patr.
Scriptorum, III. 1559, Turin, 1848.) [Cf. on Mulehet, melahideh, Heretics, plural of molhid.
Heretic, my note, pp. 476-482 of my ed. of Friar Odoric.--H. C.]

"Old Man of the Mountain" was the title applied by the Crusaders to the chief of that branch
of the sect which was settled in the mountains north of Lebanon, being a translation of his
popular Arabic title Shaikh-ul-Jibal. But according to Hammer this title properly belonged,
as Polo gives it, to the Prince of Alamút, who never called himself Sultan, Malik, or Amir;
and this seems probable, as his territory was known as the Balad-ul-Jibal. (See Abulf. in Büsching,
V. 319.)

[1] Elliot, II. 290.

CHAPTER XXIV.

HOW THE OLD MAN USED TO TRAIN HIS ASSASSINS.

When therefore they awoke, and found themselves in a place so charming, they deemed that it
was Paradise in very truth. And the ladies and damsels dallied with them to their hearts' content,
so that they had what young men would have; and with their own good will they never would have
quitted the place.

Now this Prince whom we call the Old One kept his Court in grand and noble style, and made
those simple hill-folks about him believe firmly that he was a great Prophet. And when he wanted
one of his Ashishin to send on any mission, he would cause that potion whereof I spoke to be
given to one of the youths in the garden, and then had him carried into his Palace. So when
the young man awoke, he found himself in the Castle, and no longer in that Paradise; whereat
he was not over well pleased. He was then conducted to the Old Man's presence, and bowed before
him with great veneration as believing himself to be in the presence of a true Prophet. The
Prince would then ask whence he came, and he would reply that he came from Paradise! and that
it was exactly such as Mahommet had described it in the Law. This of course gave the others
who stood by, and who had not been admitted, the greatest desire to enter therein.

So when the Old Man would have any Prince slain, he would say to such a youth: "Go thou and
slay So and So; and when thou returnest my Angels shall bear thee into Paradise. And shouldst
thou die, natheless even so will I send my Angels to carry thee back into Paradise." So he
caused them to believe; and thus there was no order of his that they would not affront any
peril to execute, for the great desire they had to get back into that Paradise of his. And
in this manner the Old One got his people to murder any one whom he desired to get rid of.
Thus, too, the great dread that he inspired all Princes withal, made them become his tributaries
in order that he might abide at peace and amity with them.[NOTE 1]

I should also tell you that the Old Man had certain others under him, who copied his proceedings
and acted exactly in the same manner. One of these was sent into the territory of Damascus,
and the other into Curdistan.[NOTE 2]

NOTE 1.--Romantic as this story is, it seems to be precisely the same that was current over
all the East. It is given by Odoric at length, more briefly by a Chinese author, and again
from an Arabic source by Hammer in the Mines de l'Orient.

The following is the Chinese account as rendered by Rémusat: "The soldiers of this country
(Mulahi) are veritable brigands. When they see a lusty youth, they tempt him with the hope
of gain, and bring him to such a point that he will be ready to kill his father or his elder
brother with his own hand. After he is enlisted, they intoxicate him, and carry him in that
state into a secluded retreat, where he is charmed with delicious music and beautiful women.
All his desires are satisfied for several days, and then (in sleep) he is transported back
to his original position. When he awakes, they ask what he has seen. He is then informed that
if he will become an Assassin, he will be rewarded with the same felicity. And with the texts
and prayers that they teach him they heat him to such a pitch that whatever commission be given
him he will brave death without regret in order to execute it."

The Arabic narrative is too long to extract. It is from a kind of historical romance called
The Memoirs of Hakim, the date of which Hammer unfortunately omits to give. Its close coincidence
in substance with Polo's story is quite remarkable. After a detailed description of the Paradise,
and the transfer into it of the aspirant under the influence of bang, on his awaking and seeing
his chief enter, he says, "O chief! am I awake or am I dreaming?" To which the chief: "O such
an One, take heed that thou tell not the dream to any stranger. Know that Ali thy Lord hath
vouchsafed to show thee the place destined for thee in Paradise.... Hesitate not a moment therefore
in the service of the Imam who thus deigns to intimate his contentment with thee," and so on.

William de Nangis thus speaks of the Syrian Shaikh, who alone was known to the Crusaders, though
one of their historians (Jacques de Vitry, in Bongars, I. 1062) shows knowledge that the headquarters
of the sect was in Persia: "He was much dreaded far and near, by both Saracens and Christians,
because he so often caused princes of both classes indifferently to be murdered by his emissaries.
For he used to bring up in his palace youths belonging to his territory, and had them taught
a variety of languages, and above all things to fear their Lord and obey him unto death, which
would thus become to them an entrance into the joys of Paradise. And whosoever of them thus
perished in carrying out his Lord's behests was worshipped as an angel." As an instance of
the implicit obedience rendered by the Fidáwí or devoted disciples of the Shaikh, Fra Pipino
and Marino Sanuto relate that when Henry Count of Champagne (titular King of Jerusalem) was
on a visit to the Old Man of Syria, one day as they walked together they saw some lads in white
sitting on the top of a high tower. The Shaikh, turning to the Count, asked if he had any subjects
as obedient as his own? and without giving time for reply made a sign to two of the boys, who
immediately leapt from the tower, and were killed on the spot. The same story is told in the
Cento Novelle Antiche, as happening when the Emperor Frederic was on a visit (imaginary) to
the Veglio. And it is introduced likewise as an incident in the Romance of Bauduin de Sebourc:

  "Vollés veioir merveilles? dist li Rois Seignouris"

to Bauduin and his friends, and on their assenting he makes the signal to one of his men on
the battlements, and in a twinkling

  "Quant le vinrent en l'air salant de tel avis,
  Et aussi liément, et aussi esjois,
  Qu'il deust conquester mil livres de parisis!
  Ains qu'il venist a tière il fut mors et fenis,
  Surles roches agues desrompis corps et pis,"[1] etc.

(Cathay, 153; Rémusat, Nouv. Mél. I. 178; Mines de l'Orient, III. 201 seqq.; Nangis in Duchesne,
V. 332; Pipino in Muratori, IX. 705; Defrémery in J. As. sér. V. tom. v. 34 seqq.; Cent. Nov.
Antiche, Firenze, 1572, p. 91; Bauduin de Sebourc, I. 359.)

The following are some of the more notable murders or attempts at murder ascribed to the Ismailite
emissaries either from Syria or from Persia:--

A.D. 1092. Nizum-ul-Mulk, formerly the powerful minister of Malik Shah, Seljukian sovereign
of Persia, and a little later his two sons. 1102. The Prince of Homs, in the chief Mosque of
that city. 1113. Maudúd, Prince of Mosul, in the chief Mosque of Damascus. About 1114. Abul
Muzafar 'Ali, Wazir of Sanjár Shah, and Chakar Beg, grand-uncle of the latter. 1116. Ahmed
Yel, Prince of Maragha, at Baghdad, in the presence of Mahomed, Sultan of Persia. 1121. The
Amir Afdhal, the powerful Wazir of Egypt, at Cairo. 1126. Kasim Aksonkor, Prince of Mosul and
Aleppo, in the Great Mosque at Mosul. 1127. Moyin-uddin, Wazir of Sanjár Shah of Persia. 1129.
Amír Billah, Khalif of Egypt. 1131. Taj-ul Mulúk Buri, Prince of Damascus. 1134. Shams-ul-Mulúk,
son of the preceding. 1135-38. The Khalif Mostarshid, the Khalif Rashíd, and Daùd, Seljukian
Prince of Azerbaijan. 1149. Raymond, Count of Tripoli. 1191. Kizil Arzlan, Prince of Azerbaijan.
1192. Conrad of Montferrat, titular King of Jerusalem; a murder which King Richard has been
accused of instigating. 1217. Oghulmish, Prince of Hamadán.

And in 1174 and 1176 attempts to murder the great Saladin. 1271. Attempt to murder Ala'uddin
Juwaini, Governor of Baghdad, and historian of the Mongols. 1272. The attempt to murder Prince
Edward of England at Acre.

In latter years the Fidáwí or Ismailite adepts appear to have let out their services simply
as hired assassins. Bibars, in a letter to his court at Cairo, boasts of using them when needful.
A Mahomedan author ascribes to Bibars the instigation of the attempt on Prince Edward. (Makrizi,
II. 100; J. As. XI. 150.)

NOTE 2.--Hammer mentions as what he chooses to call "Grand Priors" under the Shaikh or "Grand
Master" at Alamút, the chief, in Syria, one in the Kuhistan of E. Persia (Tun-o-Kain), one
in Kumis (the country about Damghan and Bostam), and one in Irák; he does not speak of any
in Kurdistan. Colonel Monteith, however, says, though without stating authority or particulars,
"There were several divisions of them (the Assassins) scattered throughout Syria, Kurdistan
(near the Lake of Wan), and Asia Minor, but all acknowledging as Imaum or High Priest the Chief
residing at Alamut." And it may be noted that Odoric, a generation after Polo, puts the Old
Man at Millescorte, which looks like Malasgird, north of Lake Van, (H. des Assass. p. 104;
J. R. G. S. III. 16; Cathay, p. ccxliii.)

[1] This story has been transferred to Peter the Great, who is alleged to
    have exhibited the docility of his subjects in the same way to the
    King of Denmark, by ordering a Cossack to jump from the Round Tower at
    Copenhagen, on the summit of which they were standing.

CHAPTER XXV.

HOW THE OLD MAN CAME BY HIS END.

Now it came to pass, in the year of Christ's Incarnation, 1252, that Alaü, Lord of the Tartars
of the Levant, heard tell of these great crimes of the Old Man, and resolved to make an end
of him. So he took and sent one of his Barons with a great Army to that Castle, and they besieged
it for three years, but they could not take it, so strong was it. And indeed if they had had
food within it never would have been taken. But after being besieged those three years they
ran short of victual, and were taken. The Old Man was put to death with all his men [and the
Castle with its Garden of Paradise was levelled with the ground]. And since that time he has
had no successor; and there was an end to all his villainies.[NOTE 1]

Now let us go back to our journey.

NOTE 1.--The date in Pauthier is 1242; in the G. T. and in Ramusio 1262. Neither is right,
nor certainly could Polo have meant the former.

When Mangku Kaan, after his enthronement (1251), determined at a great Kurultai or Diet, on
perfecting the Mongol conquests, he entrusted his brother Kúblái with the completion of the
subjugation of China and the adjacent countries, whilst his brother Hulaku received the command
of the army destined for Persia and Syria. The complaints that came from the Mongol officers
already in Persia determined him to commence with the reduction of the Ismailites, and Hulaku
set out from Karakorum in February, 1254. He proceeded with great deliberation, and the Oxus
was not crossed till January, 1256. But an army had been sent long in advance under "one of
his Barons," Kitubuka Noyan, and in 1253 it was already actively engaged in besieging the Ismailite
fortresses. In 1255, during the progress of the war, ALA'UDDIN MAHOMED, the reigning Prince
of the Assassins (mentioned by Polo as Alaodin), was murdered at the instigation of his son
Ruknuddin Khurshah, who succeeded to the authority. A year later (November, 1256) Ruknuddin
surrendered to Hulaku. [Bretschneider (Med. Res. II. p. 109) says that Alamút was taken by
Hulaku, 20th December, 1256.--H. C.] The fortresses given up, all well furnished with provisions
and artillery engines, were 100 in number. Two of them, however, Lembeser and Girdkuh, refused
to surrender. The former fell after a year; the latter is stated to have held out for twenty
years-- actually, as it would seem, about fourteen, or till December, 1270. Ruknuddin was well
treated by Hulaku, and despatched to the Court of the Kaan. The accounts of his death differ,
but that most commonly alleged, according to Rashiduddin, is that Mangku Kaan was irritated
at hearing of his approach, asking why his post-horses should be fagged to no purpose, and
sent executioners to put Ruknuddin to death on the road. Alamút had been surrendered without
any substantial resistance. Some survivors of the sect got hold of it again in 1275-1276, and
held out for a time. The dominion was extinguished, but the sect remained, though scattered
indeed and obscure. A very strange case that came before Sir Joseph Arnould in the High Court
at Bombay in 1866 threw much new light on the survival of the Ismailis.

Some centuries ago a Dai or Missionary of the Ismailis, named Sadruddín, made converts from
the Hindu trading classes in Upper Sind. Under the name of Khojas the sect multiplied considerably
in Sind, Kach'h, and Guzerat, whence they spread to Bombay and to Zanzibar. Their numbers in
Western India are now probably not less than 50,000 to 60,000. Their doctrine, or at least
the books which they revere, appear to embrace a strange jumble of Hindu notions with Mahomedan
practices and Shiah mysticism, but the main characteristic endures of deep reverence, if not
worship, of the person of their hereditary Imám. To his presence, when he resided in Persia,
numbers of pilgrims used to betake themselves, and large remittances of what we may call Ismail's
Pence were made to him. Abul Hassan, the last Imám but one of admitted lineal descent from
the later Shaikhs of Alamút, and claiming (as they did) descent from the Imám Ismail and his
great ancestor 'Ali Abu Tálib, had considerable estates at Meheláti, between Kúm and Hamadán,
and at one time held the Government of Kermán. His son and successor, Shah Khalilullah, was
killed in a brawl at Yezd in 1818. Fatteh 'Ali Sháh, fearing Ismailite vengeance, caused the
homicide to be severely punished, and conferred gifts and honours on the young Imám, Agha Khan,
including the hand of one of his own daughters. In 1840 Agha Khan, who had raised a revolt
at Kermán, had to escape from Persia. He took refuge in Sind, and eventually rendered good
service both to General Nott at Kandahár and to Sir C. Napier in Sind, for which he receives
a pension from our Government.

For many years this genuine Heir and successor of the Viex de la Montaingne has had his headquarters
at Bombay, where he devotes, or for a long time did devote, the large income that he receives
from the faithful to the maintenance of a racing stable, being the chief patron and promoter
of the Bombay Turf!

A schism among the Khojas, owing apparently to the desire of part of the well-to-do Bombay
community to sever themselves from the peculiarities of the sect and to set up as respectable
Sunnis, led in 1866 to an action in the High Court, the object of which was to exclude Agha
Khan from all rights over the Khojas, and to transfer the property of the community to the
charge of Orthodox Mahomedans. To the elaborate addresses of Mr. Howard and Sir Joseph Arnould,
on this most singular process before an English Court, I owe the preceding particulars. The
judgment was entirely in favour of the Old Man of the Mountain.

[Sir Bartle Frere writes of Agha Khan in 1875: "Like his ancestor, the Old One of Marco Polo's
time, he keeps his court in grand and noble style. His sons, popularly known as 'The Persian
Princes,' are active sportsmen, and age has not dulled the Agha's enjoyment of horse-racing.
Some of the best blood of Arabia is always to be found in his stables. He spares no expense
on his racers, and no prejudice of religion or race prevents his availing himself of the science
and skill of an English trainer or jockey when the races come round. If tidings of war or threatened
disturbance should arise from Central Asia or Persia, the Agha is always one of the first to
hear of it, and seldom fails to pay a visit to the Governor or to some old friend high in office
to hear the news and offer the services of a tried sword and an experienced leader to the Government
which has so long secured him a quiet refuge for his old age." Agha Khan died in April, 1881,
at the age of 81. He was succeeded by his son Agha Ali Sháh, one of the members of the Legislative
Council. (See The Homeward Mail, Overland Times of India, of 14th April, 1881.)]

The Bohras of Western India are identified with the Imámí-Ismáilís in some books, and were
so spoken of in the first edition of this work. This is, however, an error, originally due,
it would seem, to Sir John Malcolm. The nature of their doctrine, indeed, seems to be very
much alike, and the Bohras, like the Ismáilís, attach a divine character to their Mullah or
chief pontiff, and make a pilgrimage to his presence once in life. But the persons so reverenced
are quite different; and the Bohras recognise all the 12 Imáms of ordinary Shiahs. Their first
appearance in India was early, the date which they assign being A.H. 532 (A.D. 1137-1138).
Their chief seat was in Yemen, from which a large emigration to India took place on its conquest
by the Turks in 1538. Ibn Batuta seems to have met with Bohras at Gandár, near Baroch, in 1342.
(Voyages, IV. 58.)

A Chinese account of the expedition of Hulaku will be found in Rémusat's Nouveaux Mélanges
(I.), and in Pauthier's Introduction. (Q. R. 115-219, esp. 213; Ilch. vol. i.; J. A. S. B.
VI. 842 seqq.) [A new and complete translation has been given by Dr. E. Bretschneider, Med.
Res. I. 112 seqq.--H. C.]

There is some account of the rock of Alamút and its exceedingly slender traces of occupancy,
by Colonel Monteith, in J. R. G. S. III. 15, and again by Sir Justin Sheil in vol. viii. p.
431. There does not seem to be any specific authority for assigning the Paradise of the Shaikh
to Alamút; and it is at least worthy of note that another of the castles of the Muláhidah,
destroyed by Hulaku, was called Firdús, i.e. Paradise. In any case, I see no reason to suppose
that Polo visited Alamút, which would have been quite out of the road that he is following.

It is possible that "the Castle," to which he alludes at the beginning of next chapter, and
which set him off upon this digression, was Girdkuh.[1] It has not, as far as I know, been
identified by modern travellers, but it stood within 10 or 12 miles of Damghan (to the west
or north-west). It is probably the Tigado of Hayton, of which he thus speaks: "The Assassins
had an impregnable castle called Tigado, which was furnished with all necessaries, and was
so strong that it had no fear of attack on any side. Howbeit, Haloön commanded a certain captain
of his that he should take 10,000 Tartars who had been left in garrison in Persia, and with
them lay siege to the said castle, and not leave it till he had taken it. Wherefore the said
Tartars continued besieging it for seven whole years, winter and summer, without being able
to take it. At last the Assassins surrendered, from sheer want of clothing, but not of victuals
or other necessaries." So Ramusio; other copies read "27 years." In any case it corroborates
the fact that Girdkuh was said to have held out for an extraordinary length of time. If Rashiduddin
is right in naming 1270 as the date of surrender, this would be quite a recent event when the
Polo party passed, and draw special attention to the spot. (J. As. sér. IV. tom. xiii. 48;
Ilch. I. 93, 104, 274; Q. R. p. 278; Ritter, VIII. 336.) A note which I have from Djihan Numa
(I. 259) connects Girdkuh with a district called Chinar. This may be a clue to the term Arbre
Sec; but there are difficulties.

[1] [Ghirdkuh means "round mountain"; it was in the district of Kumis,
    three parasangs west of Damghan. Under the year 1257, the Yüan shi
    mentions the taking of the fortress of Ghi-rh-du-kie by
    K'ie-di-bu-hua. (Bretschneider, Med. Res. I. p. 122;
    II. 110.)--H. C.]

CHAPTER XXVI.

CONCERNING THE CITY OF SAPURGAN. Armies are glad to take up their quarters here on account
of the plenty that exists. The beasts do without drink until you have got across the desert
tract and come to watering places.

So after travelling for six days as I have told you, you come to a city called SAPURGAN. It
has great plenty of everything, but especially of the very best melons in the world. They preserve
them by paring them round and round into strips, and drying them in the sun. When dry they
are sweeter than honey, and are carried off for sale all over the country. There is also abundance
of game here, both of birds and beasts.[NOTE 1]

NOTE 1.--SAPURGAN may closely express the pronunciation of the name of the city which the old
Arabic writers call Sabúrkán and Shabúrkán, now called Shibrgán, lying some 90 miles west of
Balkh; containing now some 12,000 inhabitants, and situated in a plain still richly cultivated,
though on the verge of the desert.[1] But I have seen no satisfactory solution of the difficulties
as to the time assigned. This in the G. T. and in Ramusio is clearly six days. The point of
departure is indeed uncertain, but even if we were to place that at Sharakhs on the extreme
verge of cultivated Khorasan, which would be quite inconsistent with other data, it would have
taken the travellers something like double the time to reach Shíbrgán. Where I have followed
the G. T. in its reading "quant l'en a chevauchés six jornée tel che je vos ai contés, adunc
treuve l'en une cité," etc., Pauthier's text has "Et quant l'en a chevauchié les vi cités,
si treuve l'en une cité qui a nom Sapurgan," and to this that editor adheres. But I suspect
that cités is a mere lapsus for journées as in the reading in one of his three MSS. What could
be meant by "chevauchier les vi cités"? As a probable conjecture I should apply the six days
to the extent of pleasing country described in the first lines of the chapter, and identify
it with the tract between Sabzawur and the cessation of fertile country beyond Meshid. The
distance would agree well, and a comparison with Fraser or Ferrier will show that even now
the description, allowing for the compression of an old recollection, would be well founded;
e.g. on the first march beyond Nishapúr: "Fine villages, with plentiful gardens full of trees,
that bear fruit of the highest flavour, may be seen all along the foot of the hills, and in
the little recesses formed by the ravines whence issues the water that irrigates them. It was
a rich and pleasing scene, and out of question by far the most populous and cultivated tract
that I had seen in Persia.... Next morning we quitted Derrood ... by a very indifferent but
interesting road, the glen being finely wooded with walnut, mulberry, poplar, and willow-trees,
and fruit-tree gardens rising one above the other upon the mountain-side, watered by little
rills.... These gardens extended for several miles up the glen; beyond them the bank of the
stream continued to be fringed with white sycamore, willow, ash, mulberry, poplar, and woods
that love a moist situation," and so on, describing a style of scenery not common in Persia,
and expressing diffusely (as it seems to me) the same picture as Polo's two lines. In the valley
of Nishapúr, again (we quote Arthur Conolly): "'This is Persia!' was the vain exclamation of
those who were alive to the beauty of the scene; 'this is Persia!' Bah! Bah! What grass, what
grain, what water! Bah! Bah!

  ['If there be a Paradise on the face of the Earth,
    This is it! This is it! This is it!'"]--(I. 209.)

(See Fraser, 405, 432-433, 434, 436.)

With reference to the dried melons of Shibrgán, Quatremère cites a history of Herat, which
speaks of them almost in Polo's words. Ibn Batuta gives a like account of the melons of Khárizm:
"The surprising thing about these melons is the way the people have of slicing them, drying
them in the sun, and then packing them in baskets, just as Malaga figs are treated in our part
of the world. In this state they are sent to the remotest parts of India and China. There is
no dried fruit so delicious, and all the while I lived at Delhi, when the travelling dealers
came in, I never missed sending for these dried strips of melon." (Q. R. 169; I. B. III. 15.)
Here, in the 14th century, we seem to recognise the Afghan dealers arriving in the cities of
Hindustan with their annual camel-loads of dried fruits, just as we have seen them in our own day.

[1] The oldest form of the name is Asapuragán, which Rawlinson thinks
    traceable to its being an ancient seat of the Asa or Asagartii.
    (J. R. A. S. XI. 63.)

CHAPTER XXVII.

OF THE CITY OF BALC.

Balc is a noble city and a great, though it was much greater in former days. But the Tartars
and other nations have greatly ravaged and destroyed it. There were formerly many fine palaces
and buildings of marble, and the ruins of them still remain. The people of the city tell that
it was here that Alexander took to wife the daughter of Darius.

Here, you should be told, is the end of the empire of the Tartar Lord of the Levant. And this
city is also the limit of Persia in the direction between east and north-east.[NOTE 1]

Now, let us quit this city, and I will tell you of another country called DOGANA.[NOTE 2]

When you have quitted the city of which I have been speaking, you ride some 12 days between
north-east and east, without finding any human habitation, for the people have all taken refuge
in fastnesses among the mountains, on account of the Banditti and armies that harassed them.
There is plenty of water on the road, and abundance of game; there are lions too. You can get
no provisions on the road, and must carry with you all that you require for these 12 days.[NOTE 3]

NOTE 1.--BALKH, "the mother of cities," suffered mercilessly from Chinghiz. Though the city
had yielded without resistance, the whole population was marched by companies into the plain,
on the usual Mongol pretext of counting them, and then brutally massacred. The city and its
gardens were fired, and all buildings capable of defence were levelled. The province long continued
to be harried by the Chaghataian inroads. Ibn Batuta, sixty years after Marco's visit, describes
the city as still in ruins, and as uninhabited: "The remains of its mosques and colleges,"
he says, "are still to be seen, and the painted walls traced with azure." It is no doubt the
Vaeq (Valq) of Clavijo, "very large, and surrounded by a broad earthen wall, thirty paces across,
but breached in many parts." He describes a large portion of the area within as sown with cotton.
The account of its modern state in Burnes and Ferrier is much the same as Ibn Batuta's, except
that they found some population; two separate towns within the walls according to the latter.
Burnes estimates the circuit of the ruins at 20 miles. The bulk of the population has been
moved since 1858 to Takhtapul, 8 miles east of Balkh, where the Afghan Government is placed.

(Erdmann, 404-405; I. B. III. 59; Clavijo, p. 117; Burnes, II. 204-206; Ferrier, 206-207.)

According to the legendary history of Alexander, the beautiful Roxana was the daughter of Darius,
and her father in a dying interview with Alexander requested the latter to make her his wife:--

  "Une fille ai mult bele; se prendre le voles.
  Vus en seres de l'mont tout li mius maries," etc.
      (Lambert Le Court, p. 256.)

NOTE 2.--The country called Dogana in the G. Text is a puzzle. In the former edition I suggested
Juzgána, a name which till our author's time was applied to a part of the adjoining territory,
though not to that traversed in quitting Balkh for the east. Sir H. Rawlinson is inclined to
refer the name to Dehgán, or "villager," a term applied in Bactria, and in Kabul, to Tajik
peasantry[1]. I may also refer to certain passages in Baber's "Memoirs," in which he speaks
of a place, and apparently a district, called Dehánah, which seems from the context to have
lain in the vicinity of the Ghori, or Aksarai River. There is still a village in the Ghori
territory, called Dehánah. Though this is worth mentioning, where the true solution is so uncertain,
I acknowledge the difficulty of applying it. I may add also that Baber calls the River of Ghori
or Aksarai, the Dogh-ábah. (Sprenger, P. und R. Routen, p. 39 and Map; Anderson in J. A. S.
B. XXII. 161; Ilch. II. 93; Baber, pp. 132, 134, 168, 200, also 146.)

NOTE 3.--Though Burnes speaks of the part of the road that we suppose necessarily to have been
here followed from Balkh towards Taican, as barren and dreary, he adds that the ruins of aqueducts
and houses proved that the land had at one time been peopled, though now destitute of water,
and consequently of inhabitants. The country would seem to have reverted at the time of Burnes'
journey, from like causes, nearly to the state in which Marco found it after the Mongol devastations.

Lions seem to mean here the real king of beasts, and not tigers, as hereafter in the book.
Tigers, though found on the S. and W. shores of the Caspian, do not seem to exist in the Oxus
valley. On the other hand, Rashiduddin tells us that, when Hulaku was reviewing his army after
the passage of the river, several lions were started, and two were killed. The lions are also
mentioned by Sidi 'Ali, the Turkish Admiral, further down the valley towards Hazárasp: "We
were obliged to fight with the lions day and night, and no man dared to go alone for water."
Moorcroft says of the plain between Kunduz and the Oxus: "Deer, foxes, wolves, hogs, and lions
are numerous, the latter resembling those in the vicinity of Hariana" (in Upper India). Wood
also mentions lions in Kuláb, and at Kila'chap on the Oxus. Q. Curtius tells how Alexander
killed a great lion in the country north of the Oxus towards Samarkand. [A similar story is
told of Timur in The Mulfuzat Timury, translated by Major Charles Stewart, 1830 (p. 69): "During
the march '(near Balkh)' two lions made their appearance, one of them a male, the other a female.
I (Timur) resolved to kill them myself, and having shot them both with arrows, I considered
this circumstance as a lucky omen."--H. C.] (Burnes, II. 200; Q. R. 155; Ilch. I. 90; J. As.
IX. 217; Moorcroft, II. 430; Wood, ed. 1872, pp. 259,260; Q. C. VII. 2.)

[1] It may be observed that the careful Elphinstone distinguishes from
    this general application of Dehgán or Dehkán, the name Deggán
    applied to a tribe "once spread over the north-east of Afghanistan,
    but now as a separate people only in Kunar and Laghman."

CHAPTER XXVIII.

OF TAICAN, AND THE MOUNTAINS OF SALT. ALSO OF THE PROVINCE OF CASEM.

After those twelve days' journey you come to a fortified place called TAICAN, where there is
a great corn market.[NOTE 1] It is a fine place, and the mountains that you see towards the
south are all composed of salt. People from all the countries round, to some thirty days' journey,
come to fetch this salt, which is the best in the world, and is so hard that it can only be
broken with iron picks. 'Tis in such abundance that it would supply the whole world to the
end of time. [Other mountains there grow almonds and pistachioes, which are exceedingly cheap.][NOTE
2]

When you leave this town and ride three days further between north-east and east, you meet
with many fine tracts full of vines and other fruits, and with a goodly number of habitations,
and everything to be had very cheap. The people are worshippers of Mahommet, and are an evil
and a murderous generation, whose great delight is in the wine shop; for they have good wine
(albeit it be boiled), and are great topers; in truth, they are constantly getting drunk. They
wear nothing on the head but a cord some ten palms long twisted round it. They are excellent
huntsmen, and take a great deal of game; in fact they wear nothing but the skins of the beasts
they have taken in the chase, for they make of them both coats and shoes. Indeed, all of them
are acquainted with the art of dressing skins for these purposes.[NOTE 3]

When you have ridden those three days, you find a town called CASEM,[NOTE 4] which is subject
to a count. His other towns and villages are on the hills, but through this town there flows
a river of some size. There are a great many porcupines hereabouts, and very large ones too.
When hunted with dogs, several of them will get together and huddle close, shooting their quills
at the dogs, which get many a serious wound thereby.[NOTE 5]

This town of Casem is at the head of a very great province, which is also called Casem. The
people have a peculiar language. The peasants who keep cattle abide in the mountains, and have
their dwellings in caves, which form fine and spacious houses for them, and are made with ease,
as the hills are composed of earth.[NOTE 6]

After leaving the town of Casem, you ride for three days without finding a single habitation,
or anything to eat or drink, so that you have to carry with you everything that you require.
At the end of those three days you reach a province called Badashan, about which we shall now
tell you.[NOTE 7]

NOTE 1.--The Taican of Polo is the still existing TALIKAN in the province of Kataghan or Kunduz,
but it bears the former name (Tháîkán) in the old Arab geographies. Both names are used by
Baber, who says it lay in the Ulugh Bágh, or Great Garden, a name perhaps acquired by the Plains
of Talikan in happier days, but illustrating what Polo says of the next three days' march.
The Castle of Talikan resisted Chinghiz for seven months, and met with the usual fate (1221).
[In the Travels of Sidi Ali, son of Housaïn (Jour. Asiat., October, 1826, p. 203), "Talikan,
in the country of Badakhschan" is mentioned.--H. C.] Wood speaks of Talikan in 1838 as a poor
place of some 300 or 400 houses, mere hovels; a recent account gives it 500 families. Market
days are not usual in Upper India or Kabul, but are universal in Badakhshan and the Oxus provinces.
The bazaars are only open on those days, and the people from the surrounding country then assemble
to exchange goods, generally by barter. Wood chances to note: "A market was held at Talikan....
The thronged state of the roads leading into it soon apprised us that the day was no ordinary
one." (Abulf. in Büsching, V. 352; Sprenger, p. 50; P. de la Croix, I. 63; Baber, 38, 130;
Burnes, III. 8; Wood, 156; Pandit Manphul's Report.)

The distance of Talikan from Balkh is about 170 miles, which gives very short marches, if twelve
days be the correct reading. Ramusio has two days, which is certainly wrong. XII. is easily
miswritten for VII., which would be a just number.

NOTE 2.--In our day, as I learn from Pandit Manphul, the mines of rock salt are at Ak Bulák,
near the Lataband Pass, and at Darúná, near the Kokcha, and these supply the whole of Badakhshan,
as well as Kunduz and Chitrál. These sites are due east of Talikan, and are in Badakhshan.
But there is a mine at Chál, S.E. or S.S.E. of Talikan and within the same province. There
are also mines of rock-salt near the famous "stone bridge" in Kuláb, north of the Oxus, and
again on the south of the Alaï steppe. (Papers by Manphul and by Faiz Baksh; also Notes by
Feachenko.)

Both pistachioes and wild almonds are mentioned by Pandit Manphul; and see Wood (p. 252) on
the beauty and profusion of the latter.

NOTE 3.--Wood thinks that the Tajik inhabitants of Badakhshan and the adjoining districts are
substantially of the same race as the Kafir tribes of Hindu Kúsh. At the time of Polo's visit
it would seem that their conversion to Islam was imperfect. They were probably in that transition
state which obtains in our own day for some of the Hill Mahomedans adjoining the Kafirs on
the south side of the mountains the reproachful title of Nímchah Musulmán, or Half-and-halfs.
Thus they would seem to have retained sundry Kafir characteristics; among others that love
of wine which is so strong among the Kafirs. The boiling of the wine is noted by Baber (a connoisseur)
as the custom of Nijrao, adjoining, if not then included in, Kafir-land; and Elphinstone implies
the continuance of the custom when he speaks of the Kafirs as having wine of the consistence
of jelly, and very strong. The wine of Kápishí, the Greek Kapisa, immediately south of Hindu
Kúsh, was famous as early as the time of the Hindu grammarian Pánini, say three centuries B.C.
The cord twisted round the head was probably also a relic of Kafir costume: "Few of the Kafirs
cover the head, and when they do, it is with a narrow band or fillet of goat's hair ... about
a yard or a yard and a half in length, wound round the head." This style of head-dress seems
to be very ancient in India, and in the Sanchi sculptures is that of the supposed Dasyas. Something
very similar, i.e. a scanty turban cloth twisted into a mere cord, and wound two or three times
round the head, is often seen in the Panjab to this day.

The Postín or sheepskin coat is almost universal on both sides of the Hindu Kúsh; and Wood
notes: "The shoes in use resemble half-boots, made of goatskin, and mostly of home manufacture."
(Baber, 145; J. A. S. B. XXVIII. 348, 364; Elphinst. II. 384; Ind. Antiquary, I. 22; Wood,
174, 220; J. R. A. S. XIX. 2.)

NOTE 4.--Marsden was right in identifying Scassem or Casem with the Kechem of D'Anville's Map,
but wrong in confounding the latter with the Kishmabad of Elphinstone--properly, I believe,
Kishnabad--in the Anderab Valley. Kashm, or Keshm, found its way into maps through Pétis de
la Croix, from whom probably D'Anville adopted it; but as it was ignored by Elphinstone (or
by Macartney, who constructed his map), and by Burnes, it dropped out of our geography. Indeed,
Wood does not notice it except as giving name to a high hill called the Hill of Kishm, and
the position even of that he omits to indicate. The frequent mention of Kishm in the histories
of Timur and Humayun (e.g. P. de la Croix, I. 167; N. et E. XIV. 223, 491; Erskine's Baber
and Humayun, II. 330, 355, etc.) had enabled me to determine its position within tolerably
narrow limits; but desiring to fix it definitely, application was made through Colonel Maclagan
to Pandit Manphul, C.S.I., a very intelligent Hindu gentleman, who resided for some time in
Badakhshan as agent of the Panjab Government, and from him arrived a special note and sketch,
and afterwards a MS. copy of a Report,[1] which set the position of Kishm at rest.

KISHM is the Kilissemo, i.e. Karisma or Krishma, of Hinen Tsang; and Sir H. Rawlinson has identified
the Hill of Kishm with the Mount Kharesem of the Zend-Avesta, on which Jamshid placed the most
sacred of all the fires. It is now a small town or large village on the right bank of the Varsach
river, a tributary of the Kokcha. It was in 1866 the seat of a district ruler under the Mír
of Badakhshan, who was styled the Mír of Kishm, and is the modern counterpart of Marco's Quens
or Count. The modern caravan-road between Kunduz and Badakhshan does not pass through Kishm,
which is left some five miles to the right, but through the town of Mashhad, which stands on
the same river. Kishm is the warmest district of Badakhshan. Its fruits are abundant, and ripen
a month earlier than those at Faizabad, the capital of that country. The Varsach or Mashhad
river is Marco's "Flum auques grant." Wood (247) calls it "the largest stream we had yet forded
in Badakhshan."

It is very notable that in Ramusio, in Pipino, and in one passage of the G. Text, the name
is written Scasem, which has led some to suppose the Ish-Káshm of Wood to be meant. That place
is much too far east--in fact, beyond the city which forms the subject of the next chapter.
The apparent hesitation, however, between the forms Casem and Scasem suggests that the Kishm
of our note may formerly have been termed S'kashm or Ish-Kashm, a form frequent in the Oxus
Valley, e.g. Ish-Kimish, Ish-Káshm, Ishtrakh, Ishpingao. General Cunningham judiciously suggests
(Ladak, 34) that this form is merely a vocal corruption of the initial S before a consonant,
a combination which always troubles the Musulman in India, and converts every Mr. Smith or
Mr. Sparks into Ismit or Ispak Sahib.

[There does not seem to me any difficulty about this note: "Shibarkhan (Afghan Turkistan),
Balkh, Kunduz, Khanabad, Talikan, Kishm, Badakhshan." I am tempted to look for Dogana at Khanabad.--H.
C.]

NOTE 5.--The belief that the porcupine projected its quills at its assailants was an ancient
and persistent one--"cum intendit cutem missiles," says Pliny (VIII. 35, and see also Aelian.
de Nat. An. I. 31), and is held by the Chinese as it was held by the ancients, but is universally
rejected by modern zoologists. The huddling and coiling appears to be a true characteristic,
for the porcupine always tries to shield its head.

NOTE 6.--The description of Kishm as a "very great" province is an example of a bad habit of
Marco's, which recurs in the next chapter. What he says of the cave-dwellings may be illustrated
by Burnes's account of the excavations at Bamian, in a neighbouring district. These "still
form the residence of the greater part of the population.... The hills at Bamian are formed
of indurated clay and pebbles, which renders this excavation a matter of little difficulty."
Similar occupied excavations are noticed by Moorcroft at Heibak and other places towards Khulm.

Curiously, Pandit Manphul says of the districts about the Kokcha: "Both their hills and plains
are productive, the former being mostly composed of earth, having very little of rocky substance."

NOTE 7.--The capital of Badakhshan is now Faizabad, on the right bank of the Kokcha, founded,
according to Manphul, by Yarbeg, the first Mír of the present dynasty. When this family was
displaced for a time, by Murad Beg of Kunduz, about 1829, the place was abandoned for years,
but is now re-occupied. The ancient capital of Badakhshan stood in the Dasht (or Plain) of
Bahárak, one of the most extensive pieces of level in Badakhshan, in which the rivers Vardoj,
Zardeo, and Sarghalan unite with the Kokcha, and was apparently termed Jaúzgún. This was probably
the city called Badakhshan by our traveller.[2] As far as I can estimate, by the help of Wood
and the map I have compiled, this will be from 100 to 110 miles distant from Talikan, and will
therefore suit fairly with the six marches that Marco lays down.

Wood, in 1838, found the whole country between Talikan and Faizabad nearly as depopulated as
Marco found that between Kishm and Badakhshan. The modern depopulation was due--in part, at
least--to the recent oppressions and razzias of the Uzbeks of Kunduz. On their decline, between
1840 and 1850, the family of the native Mírs was reinstated, and these now rule at Faizabad,
under an acknowledgment, since 1859, of Afghan supremacy.

[1] Since published in J. K. G. S. vol. xlii.

[2] Wilford, in the end of the 18th century, speaks of Faizabad as "the
    new capital of Badakhshan, built near the site of the old one." The
    Chinese map (vide J. R. G. S. vol. xlii.) represents the city of
    Badakhshan to the east of Faizabad. Faiz Bakhsh, in an unpublished
    paper, mentions a tradition that the Lady Zobeidah, dear to English
    children, the daughter of Al-Mansúr and wife of Ar-Rashid, delighted
    to pass the spring at Jauzgún, and built a palace there, "the ruins of
    which are still visible."

CHAPTER XXIX.

OF THE PROVINCE OF BADASHAN.

Badashan is a Province inhabited by people who worship Mahommet, and have a peculiar language.
It forms a very great kingdom, and the royalty is hereditary. All those of the royal blood
are descended from King Alexander and the daughter of King Darius, who was Lord of the vast
Empire of Persia. And all these kings call themselves in the Saracen tongue ZULCARNIAIN, which
is as much as to say Alexander; and this out of regard for Alexander the Great.[NOTE 1]

It is in this province that those fine and valuable gems the Balas Rubies are found. They are
got in certain rocks among the mountains, and in the search for them the people dig great caves
underground, just as is done by miners for silver. There is but one special mountain that produces
them, and it is called SYGHINAN. The stones are dug on the king's account, and no one else
dares dig in that mountain on pain of forfeiture of life as well as goods; nor may any one
carry the stones out of the kingdom. But the king amasses them all, and sends them to other
kings when he has tribute to render, or when he desires to offer a friendly present; and such
only as he pleases he causes to be sold. Thus he acts in order to keep the Balas at a high
value; for if he were to allow everybody to dig, they would extract so many that the world
would be glutted with them, and they would cease to bear any value. Hence it is that he allows
so few to be taken out, and is so strict in the matter.[NOTE 2]

There is also in the same country another mountain, in which azure is found; 'tis the finest
in the world, and is got in a vein like silver. There are also other mountains which contain
a great amount of silver ore, so that the country is a very rich one; but it is also (it must
be said) a very cold one.[NOTE 3] It produces numbers of excellent horses, remarkable for their
speed. They are not shod at all, although constantly used in mountainous country, and on very
bad roads. [They go at a great pace even down steep descents, where other horses neither would
nor could do the like. And Messer Marco was told that not long ago they possessed in that province
a breed of horses from the strain of Alexander's horse Bucephalus, all of which had from their
birth a particular mark on the forehead. This breed was entirely in the hands of an uncle of
the king's; and in consequence of his refusing to let the king have any of them, the latter
put him to death. The widow then, in despite, destroyed the whole breed, and it is now extinct.[NOTE
4]]

The mountains of this country also supply Saker falcons of excellent flight, and plenty of
Lanners likewise. Beasts and birds for the chase there are in great abundance. Good wheat is
grown, and also barley without husk. They have no olive oil, but make oil from sesamé, and
also from walnuts.[NOTE 5]

[In the mountains there are vast numbers of sheep--400, 500, or 600 in a single flock, and
all of them wild; and though many of them are taken, they never seem to get aught the scarcer.[NOTE
6]

Those mountains are so lofty that 'tis a hard day's work, from morning till evening, to get
to the top of them. On getting up, you find an extensive plain, with great abundance of grass
and trees, and copious springs of pure water running down through rocks and ravines. In those
brooks are found trout and many other fish of dainty kinds; and the air in those regions is
so pure, and residence there so healthful, that when the men who dwell below in the towns,
and in the valleys and plains, find themselves attacked by any kind of fever or other ailment
that may hap, they lose no time in going to the hills; and after abiding there two or three
days, they quite recover their health through the excellence of that air. And Messer Marco
said he had proved this by experience: for when in those parts he had been ill for about a
year, but as soon as he was advised to visit that mountain, he did so and got well at once.[NOTE
7]]

In this kingdom there are many strait and perilous passes, so difficult to force that the people
have no fear of invasion. Their towns and villages also are on lofty hills, and in very strong
positions.[NOTE 8] They are excellent archers, and much given to the chase; indeed, most of
them are dependent for clothing on the skins of beasts, for stuffs are very dear among them.
The great ladies, however, are arrayed in stuffs, and I will tell you the style of their dress!
They all wear drawers made of cotton cloth, and into the making of these some will put 60,
80, or even 100 ells of stuff. This they do to make themselves look large in the hips, for
the men of those parts think that to be a great beauty in a woman.[NOTE 9]

NOTE 1.--"The population of Badakhshan Proper is composed of Tajiks, Turks, and Arabs, who
are all Sunnis, following the orthodox doctrines of the Mahomedan law, and speak Persian and
Turki, whilst the people of the more mountainous tracts are Tajiks of the Shiá creed, having
separate provincial dialects or languages of their own, the inhabitants of the principal places
combining therewith a knowledge of Persian. Thus, the Shighnáni [sometimes called Shighni]
is spoken in Shignán and Roshán, the Ishkáshami in Ishkásham, the Wakhi in Wakhán, the Sanglichì
in Sanglich and Zebák, and the Minjáni in Minján. All these dialects materially differ from
each other." (Pand. Manphul.) It may be considered almost certain that Badakhshan Proper also
had a peculiar dialect in Polo's time. Mr. Shaw speaks of the strong resemblance to Kashmírís
of the Badakhshán people whom he had seen.

The Legend of the Alexandrian pedigree of the Kings of Badakhshan is spoken of by Baber, and
by earlier Eastern authors. This pedigree is, or was, claimed also by the chiefs of Karátegín,
Darwáz, Roshán, Shighnán, Wakhán, Chitrál, Gilgít, Swát, and Khapolor in Bálti. Some samples
of those genealogies may be seen in that strange document called "Gardiner's Travels."

In Badakhshan Proper the story seems now to have died out. Indeed, though Wood mentions one
of the modern family of Mírs as vaunting this descent, these are in fact Sáhibzádahs of Samarkand,
who were invited to the country about the middle of the 17th century, and were in no way connected
with the old kings.

The traditional claims to Alexandrian descent were probably due to a genuine memory of the
Graeco-Bactrian kingdom, and might have had an origin analogous to the Sultan's claim to be
"Caesar of Rome"; for the real ancestry of the oldest dynasties on the Oxus was to be sought
rather among the Tochari and Ephthalites than among the Greeks whom they superseded.

The cut on p. 159 presents an interesting memorial of the real relation of Bactria to Greece,
as well as of the pretence of the Badakhshan princes to Grecian descent. This silver patera
was sold by the family of the Mírs, when captives, to the Minister of the Uzbek chief of Kunduz,
and by him to Dr. Percival Lord in 1838. It is now in the India Museum. On the bottom is punched
a word or two in Pehlvi, and there is also a word incised in Syriac or Uighúr. It is curious
that a pair of paterae were acquired by Dr. Lord under the circumstances stated. The other,
similar in material and form, but apparently somewhat larger, is distinctly Sassanian, representing
a king spearing a lion.

Zu-'lkarnain, "the Two-Horned," is an Arabic epithet of Alexander, with which legends have
been connected, but which probably arose from the horned portraits on his coins. [Capus, l.c.
p. 121, says, "Iskandr Zoulcarneïn or Alexander le Cornu, horns being the emblem of strength."
--H. C.] The term appears in Chaucer (Troil. and Cress. III. 931) in the sense of non plus:--

  "I am, till God me better minde send,
  At dulcarnon, right at my wittes end."

And it is said to have still colloquial existence in that sense in some corners of England.
This use is said to have arisen from the Arabic application of the term (Bicorne) to the 47th
Proposition of Euclid. (Baber, 13; N. et E. XIV. 490; N. An. des V. xxvi. 296; Burnes, III.
186 seqq.; Wood, 155, 244; J. A. S. B. XXII. 300; Ayeen Akbery, II. 185; see N. and Q. 1st
Series, vol. v.)

NOTE 2.--I have adopted in the text for the name of the country that one of the several forms
in the G. Text which comes nearest to the correct name, viz. Badascian. But Balacian also appears
both in that and in Pauthier's text. This represents Balakhshán, a form also sometimes used
in the East. Hayton has Balaxcen, Clavijo Balaxia, the Catalan Map Baldassia. From the form
Balakhsh the Balas Ruby got its name. As Ibn Batuta says: "'The Mountains of Badakhshan have
given their name to the Badakhshi Ruby, vulgarly called Al Balaksh." Albertus Magnus says the
Balagius is the female of the Carbuncle or Ruby Proper, "and some say it is his house, and
hath thereby got the name, quasi Palatium Carbunculi!" The Balais or Balas Ruby is, like the
Spinel, a kind inferior to the real Ruby of Ava. The author of the Masálak al Absár says the
finest Balas ever seen in the Arab countries was one presented to Malek 'Adil Ketboga, at Damascus;
it was of a triangular form and weighed 50 drachms. The prices of Balasci in Europe in that
age may be found in Pegolotti, but the needful problems are hard to solve.

  "No sapphire in Inde, no Rubie rich of price,
  There lacked than, nor Emeraud so grene,
  Balès, Turkès, ne thing to my device."
      (Chaucer, 'Court of Love.')

  "L'altra letizia, che m'era già nota,
  Preclara cosa mi si fece in vista,
  Qual fin balascio in che lo Sol percuoto."
      (Paradiso, ix. 67.)

Some account of the Balakhsh from Oriental sources will be found in J. As. sér V. tom. xi. 109.

(I. B. III. 59, 394; Alb. Mag. de Mineralibus; Pegol. p. 307; N. et E. XIII. i. 246.)

["The Mohammedan authors of the Mongol period mention Badakhshan several times in connection
with the political and military events of that period. Guchluk, the 'gurkhan of Karakhitai,'
was slain in Badakhshan in 1218 (d'Ohsson, I. 272). In 1221, the Mongols invaded the country
(l.c. I. 272). On the same page, d'Ohsson translates a short account of Badakhshan by Yakut
(+ 1229), stating that this mountainous country is famed for its precious stones, and especially
rubies, called Balakhsh." (Bretschneider, Med. Res. II. p. 66.)--H. C.]

The account of the royal monopoly in working the mines, etc., has continued accurate down to
our own day. When Murad Beg of Kunduz conquered Badakhshan some forty years ago, in disgust
at the small produce of the mines, he abandoned working them, and sold nearly all the population
of the place into slavery! They continue still unworked, unless clandestinely. In 1866 the
reigning Mír had one of them opened at the request of Pandit Manphul, but without much result.

The locality of the mines is on the right bank of the Oxus, in the district of Ish Káshm and
on the borders of SHIGNAN, the Syghinan of the text. (P. Manph.; Wood, 206; N. Ann. des. V.
xxvi. 300.)

[The ruby mines are really in the Gháran country, which extends along both banks of the Oxus.
Barshar is one of the deserted villages; the boundary between Gháran and Shignán is the Kuguz
Parin (in Shighai dialect means "holes in the rock"); the Persian equivalent is "Rafak-i-Somakh."
(Cf. Captain Trotter, Forsyth's Mission, p. 277.)--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--The mines of Lájwurd (whence l'Azur and Lazuli) have been, like the Ruby mines, celebrated
for ages. They lie in the Upper Valley of the Kokcha, called Korán, within the Tract called
Yamgán, of which the popular etymology is Hamah-Kán, or "All-Mines," and were visited by Wood
in 1838. The produce now is said to be of very inferior quality, and in quantity from 30 to
60 poods (36 lbs each) annually. The best quality sells at Bokhara at 30 to 60 tillas, or 12l.
to 24l. the pood (Manphúl). Surely it is ominous when a British agent writing of Badakhshan
products finds it natural to express weights in Russian poods!

The Yamgán Tract also contains mines of iron, lead, alum, salammoniac, sulphur, ochre, and
copper. The last are not worked. But I do not learn of any silver mines nearer than those of
Paryán in the Valley of Panjshir, south of the crest of the Hindu-Kúsh, much worked in the
early Middle Ages. (See Cathay, p. 595.)

NOTE 4.--The Kataghan breed of horses from Badakhshan and Kunduz has still a high reputation.
They do not often reach India, as the breed is a favourite one among the Afghan chiefs, and
the horses are likely to be appropriated in transit. (Lumsden, Mission to Kandahar, p. 20.)

[The Kirghiz between the Yangi Hissar River and Sirikol are the only people using the horse
generally in the plough, oxen being employed in the plains, and yaks in Sirikol. (Lieutenant-Colonel
Gordon, p. 222, Forsyth's Mission.)--H. C.]

What Polo heard of the Bucephalid strain was perhaps but another form of a story told by the
Chinese, many centuries earlier, when speaking of this same region. A certain cave was frequented
by a wonderful stallion of supernatural origin. Hither the people yearly brought their mares,
and a famous breed was derived from the foals. (Rém. N. Mél. As. I. 245.)

NOTE 5.--The huskless barley of the text is thus mentioned by Burnes in the vicinity of the
Hindu-Kúsh: "They rear a barley in this elevated country which has no husk, and grows like
wheat; but it is barley." It is not properly huskless, but when ripe it bursts the husk and
remains so loosely attached as to be dislodged from it by a slight shake. It is grown abundantly
in Ladak and the adjoining Hill States. Moorcroft details six varieties of it cultivated there.
The kind mentioned by Marco and Burnes is probably that named by Royle Hordeum Aegiceras, and
which has been sent to England under the name of Tartarian Wheat, though it is a genuine barley.
Naked barley is mentioned by Galen as grown in Cappadocia; and Matthioli speaks of it as grown
in France in his day (middle of 16th century). It is also known to the Arabs, for they have
a name for it-- Sult. (Burnes, III. 205; Moorc. II. 148 seqq.; Galen, de Aliment. Facult. Lat.
ed. 13; Matthioli, Ven. 1585, p. 420; Eng. Cyc., art. Hordeum.)

Sesamé is mentioned by P. Manphul as one of the products of Badakhshan; linseed is another,
which is also used for oil. Walnut-trees abound, but neither he nor Wood mention the oil. We
know that walnut oil is largely manufactured in Kashmir. (Moorcroft, II. 148.)

[See on Saker and Lanner Falcons (F. Sakar, Briss.; F. lanarius, Schlegel) the valuable paper
by Edouard Blanc, Sur l'utilisation des Oiseaux de proie en Asie centrale in Rev. des Sciences
natur. appliquées, 20th June, 1895.

"Hawking is the favourite sport of Central Asian Lords," says G. Capus. (A travers le royaume
de Tamerlan, p. 132. See pp. 132-134.)

The Mirza says (l.c. p. 157) that the mountains of Wakhán "are only noted for producing a breed
of hawks or falcons which the hardy Wâkhânis manage to catch among the cliffs. These hawks
are much esteemed by the chiefs of Badakhshan, Bokhara, etc. They are celebrated for their
swiftness, and known by their white colour."--H. C.]

NOTE 6.--These wild sheep are probably the kind called Kachkár, mentioned by Baber, and described
by Mr. Blyth in his Monograph of Wild Sheep, under the name of Ovis Vignei. It is extensively
diffused over all the ramifications of Hindu-Kúsh, and westward perhaps to the Persian Elburz.
"It is gregarious," says Wood, "congregating in herds of several hundreds." In a later chapter
Polo speaks of a wild sheep apparently different and greater. (See J. A. S. B., X. 858 seqq.)

NOTE 7.--This pleasant passage is only in Ramusio, but it would be heresy to doubt its genuine
character. Marco's recollection of the delight of convalescence in such a climate seems to
lend an unusual enthusiasm and felicity to his description of the scenery. Such a region as
he speaks of is probably the cool Plateau of Shewá, of which we are told as extending about
25 miles eastward from near Faizabad, and forming one of the finest pastures in Badakhshan.
It contains a large lake called by the frequent name Sar-i-Kol. No European traveller in modern
times (unless Mr. Gardner) has been on those glorious table-lands. Burnes says that at Kunduz
both natives and foreigners spoke rapturously of the vales of Badakhshan, its rivulets, romantic
scenes and glens, its fruits, flowers, and nightingales. Wood is reticent on scenery, naturally,
since nearly all his journey was made in winter. When approaching Faizabad on his return from
the Upper Oxus, however, he says: "On entering the beautiful lawn at the gorge of its valley
I was enchanted at the quiet loveliness of the scene. Up to this time, from the day we left
Talikan, we had been moving in snow; but now it had nearly vanished from the valley, and the
fine sward was enamelled with crocuses, daffodils, and snowdrops." (P. Manphul; Burnes, III.
176; Wood, 252.)

NOTE 8.--Yet scarcely any country in the world has suffered so terribly and repeatedly from
invasion. "Enduring decay probably commenced with the wars of Chinghiz, for many an instance
in Eastern history shows the permanent effect of such devastations.... Century after century
saw only progress in decay. Even to our own time the progress of depopulation and deterioration
has continued." In 1759, two of the Khojas of Kashgar, escaping from the dominant Chinese,
took refuge in Badakhshan; one died of his wounds, the other was treacherously slain by Sultan
Shah, who then ruled the country. The holy man is said in his dying moments to have invoked
curses on Badakhshan, and prayed that it might be three times depopulated; a malediction which
found ample accomplishment. The misery of the country came to a climax about 1830, when the
Uzbek chief of Kunduz, Murad Beg Kataghan, swept away the bulk of the inhabitants, and set
them down to die in the marshy plains of Kunduz. (Cathay, p. 542; Faiz Bakhsh, etc.)

NOTE 9.--This "bombasticall dissimulation of their garments," as the author of Anthropometamorphosis
calls such a fashion, is no longer affected by the ladies of Badakhshan. But a friend in the
Panjab observes that it still survives there. "There are ladies' trousers here which might
almost justify Marco's very liberal estimate of the quantity of stuff required to make them;"
and among the Afghan ladies, Dr. Bellew says, the silken trousers almost surpass crinoline
in amplitude. It is curious to find the same characteristic attaching to female figures on
coins of ancient kings of these regions, such as Agathocles and Pantaleon. (The last name is
appropriate!)

CHAPTER XXX.

NOTE 1.--The name of PASHAI has already occurred (see ch. xviii.) linked with DIR, as indicating
a tract, apparently of very rugged and difficult character, through which the partizan leader
Nigúdar passed in making an incursion from Badakhshan towards Káshmir. The difficulty here
lies in the name Pashai, which points to the south-west, whilst Dir and all other indications
point to the south-east. But Pashai seems to me the reading to which all texts tend, whilst
it is clearly expressed in the G. T. (Pasciai), and it is contrary to all my experience of
the interpretation of Marco Polo to attempt to torture the name in the way which has been common
with commentators professed and occasional. But dropping this name for a moment, let us see
to what the other indications do point.

In the meagre statements of this and the next chapter, interposed as they are among chapters
of detail unusually ample for Polo, there is nothing to lead us to suppose that the Traveller
ever personally visited the countries of which these two chapters treat. I believe we have
here merely an amplification of the information already sketched of the country penetrated
by the Nigudarian bands whose escapade is related in chapter xviii., information which was
probably derived from a Mongol source. And these countries are in my belief both regions famous
in the legends of the Northern Buddhists, viz. UDYÁNA and KÁSHMIR.

Udyána lay to the north of Pesháwar on the Swát River, but from the extent assigned to it by
Hiuen Tsang, the name probably covered a large part of the whole hill-region south of the Hindu-Kúsh
from Chitrál to the Indus, as indeed it is represented in the Map of Vivien de St. Martin (Pèlerins
Bouddhistes, II.). It is regarded by Fahian as the most northerly Province of India, and in
his time the food and clothing of the people were similar to those of Gangetic India. It was
the native country of Padma Sambhava, one of the chief apostles of Lamaism, i.e. of Tibetan
Buddhism, and a great master of enchantments. The doctrines of Sakya, as they prevailed in
Udyána in old times, were probably strongly tinged with Sivaitic magic, and the Tibetans still
regard that locality as the classic ground of sorcery and witchcraft.

Hiuen Tsang says of the inhabitants: "The men are of a soft and pusillanimous character, naturally
inclined to craft and trickery. They are fond of study, but pursue it with no ardour. The science
of magical formulae is become a regular professional business with them. They generally wear
clothes of white cotton, and rarely use any other stuff. Their spoken language, in spite of
some differences, has a strong resemblance to that of India."

These particulars suit well with the slight description in our text, and the Indian atmosphere
that it suggests; and the direction and distance ascribed to Pashai suit well with Chitral,
which may be taken as representing Udyána when approached from Badakhshan. For it would be
quite practicable for a party to reach the town of Chitrál in ten days from the position assigned
to the old capital of Badakhshan. And from Chitrál the road towards Káshmir would lie over
the high Lahori pass to DIR, which from its mention in chapter xviii. we must consider an obligatory
point. (Fah-hian, p. 26; Koeppen, I. 70; Pèlerins Boud. II. 131-132.)

["Tao-lin (a Buddhist monk like Hiuen Tsang) afterwards left the western regions and changed
his road to go to Northern India; he made a pilgrimage to Kia-che-mi-louo (Káshmir), and then
entered the country of U-ch'ang-na (Udyána)...." (Ed. Chavannes, I-tsing, p. 105.)--H. C.]

We must now turn to the name Pashai. The Pashai Tribe are now Mahomedan, but are reckoned among
the aboriginal inhabitants of the country, which the Afghans are not. Baber mentions them several
times, and counts their language as one of the dozen that were spoken at Kabul in his time.
Burnes says it resembles that of the Kafirs. A small vocabulary of it was published by Leech,
in the seventh volume of the J. A. S. B., which I have compared with vocabularies of Siah-posh
Kafir, published by Raverty in vol. xxxiii. of the same journal, and by Lumsden in his Report
of the Mission to Kandahar, in 1837. Both are Aryan, and seemingly of Professor Max Müller's
class Indic, but not very close to one another.[1]

Ibn Batuta, after crossing the Hindu-Kúsh by one of the passes at the head of the Panjshir
Valley, reaches the Mountain BASHÁI (Pashai). In the same vicinity the Pashais are mentioned
by Sidi 'Ali, in 1554. And it is still in the neighbourhood of Panjshir that the tribe is most
numerous, though they have other settlements in the hill-country about Nijrao, and on the left
bank of the Kabul River between Kabul and Jalalabad. Pasha and Pasha-gar is also named as one
of the chief divisions of the Kafirs, and it seems a fair conjecture that it represents those
of the Pashais who resisted or escaped conversion to Islam. (See Leech's Reports in Collection
pub. at Calcutta in 1839; Baber, 140; Elphinstone, I. 411; J. A. S. B. VII. 329, 731, XXVIII.
317 seqq., XXXIII. 271-272; I. B. III. 86; J. As. IX. The difficulty remains as to how he came
to apply the name Pashai to the country south-east of Badakhshan. I cannot tell. But it is
at least possible that the name of the Pashai tribe (of which the branches even now are spread
over a considerable extent of country) may have once had a wide application over the southern
spurs of the Hindu- Kúsh.[2] Our Author, moreover, is speaking here from hearsay, and hearsay
geography without maps is much given to generalising. I apprehend that, along with characteristics
specially referable to the Tibetan and Mongol traditions of Udyána, the term Pashai, as Polo
uses it, vaguely covers the whole tract from the southern boundary of Badakhshan to the Indus
and the Kabul River.

But even by extending its limits to Attok, we shall not get within seven marches of Káshmir.
It is 234 miles by road from Attok to Srinagar; more than twice seven marches. And, according
to Polo's usual system, the marches should be counted from Chitrál, or some point thereabouts.

Sir H. Rawlinson, in his Monograph on the Oxus, has indicated the probability that the name
Pashai may have been originally connected with Aprasin or Paresín, the Zendavestian name for
the Indian Caucasus, and which occurs in the Babylonian version of the Behistun Inscription
as the equivalent of Gaddra in the Persian, i.e. Gandhára, there applied to the whole country
between Bactria and the Indus. (See J. R. G. S. XLII. 502.) Some such traditional application
of the term Pashai might have survived.

[1] The Kafir dialect of which Mr. Trumpp collected some particulars shows
    in the present tense of the substantive verb these remarkable forms:--
    Ei sum, Tu sis, siga se; Ima simis, Wi sik, Sige sin.

[2] In the Tabakat-i-Násiri (Elliot, II. 317) we find mention of the
    Highlands of Pasha-Afroz, but nothing to define their position.

CHAPTER XXXI.

OF THE PROVINCE OF KESHIMUR.

Keshimur also is a Province inhabited by a people who are Idolaters and have a language of
their own.[NOTE 1] They have an astonishing acquaintance with the devilries of enchantment;
insomuch that they make their idols to speak. They can also by their sorceries bring on changes
of weather and produce darkness, and do a number of things so extraordinary that no one without
seeing them would believe them.[NOTE 2] Indeed, this country is the very original source from
which Idolatry has spread abroad.[NOTE 3]

In this direction you can proceed further till you come to the Sea of India.

The men are brown and lean, but the women, taking them as brunettes, are very beautiful. The
food of the people is flesh, and milk, and rice. The clime is finely tempered, being neither
very hot nor very cold. There are numbers of towns and villages in the country, but also forests
and desert tracts, and strong passes, so that the people have no fear of anybody, and keep
their independence, with a king of their own to rule and do justice.[NOTE 4]

There are in this country Eremites (after the fashion of those parts), who dwell in seclusion
and practise great abstinence in eating and drinking. They observe strict chastity, and keep
from all sins forbidden in their law, so that they are regarded by their own folk as very holy
persons. They live to a very great age.[NOTE 5]

There are also a number of idolatrous abbeys and monasteries. [The people of the province do
not kill animals nor spill blood; so if they want to eat meat they get the Saracens who dwell
among them to play the butcher.[NOTE 6]] The coral which is carried from our parts of the world
has a better sale there than in any other country.[NOTE 7]

Now we will quit this country, and not go any further in the same direction; for if we did
so we should enter India; and that I do not wish to do at present. For, on our return journey,
I mean to tell you about India: all in regular order. Let us go back therefore to Badashan,
for we cannot otherwise proceed on our journey.

NOTE 1.--I apprehend that in this chapter Marco represents Buddhism (which is to be understood
by his expression Idolatry, not always, but usually) as in a position of greater life and prosperity
than we can believe it to have enjoyed in Káshmir at the end of the 13th century, and I suppose
that his knowledge of it was derived in great part from tales of the Mongol and Tibetan Buddhists
about its past glories.

I know not if the spelling Kesciemur represents any peculiar Mongol pronunciation of the name.
Plano Carpini, probably the first modern European to mention this celebrated region, calls
it Casmir (p. 708).

"The Cashmeerians," says Abu'l Fazl, "have a language of their own, but their books are written
in the Shanskrit tongue, although the character is sometimes Cashmeerian. They write chiefly
upon Tooz [birch-bark], which is the bark of a tree; it easily divides into leaves, and remains
perfect for many years." (Ayeen Akbery, II. 147.) A sketch of Kashmiri Grammar by Mr. Edgeworth
will be found in vol. x. of the J. A. S. B., and a fuller one by Major Leech in vol. xiii.
Other contributions on the language are in vol. xxxv. pt. i. p. 233 (Godwin-Austen); in vol.
xxxix. pt. i. p. 95 (Dr. Elmslie); and in Proceedings for 1866, p. 62, seqq. (Sir G. Campbell
and Bábú Rájendra Lál Mitra). The language, though in large measure of Sanskrit origin, has
words and forms that cannot be traced in any other Indian vernacular. (Campbell, pp. 67, 68).
The character is a modification of the Panjáb Nagari.

NOTE 2.--The Kashmirian conjurers had made a great impression on Marco, who had seen them at
the Court of the Great Kaan, and he recurs in a later chapter to their weather sorceries and
other enchantments, when we shall make some remarks. Meanwhile let us cite a passage from Bernier,
already quoted by M. Pauthier. When crossing the Pír Panjál (the mountain crossed on entering
Káshmir from Lahore) with the camp of Aurangzíb, he met with "an old Hermit who had dwelt upon
the summit of the Pass since the days of Jehangir, and whose religion nobody knew, although
it was said that he could work miracles, and used at his pleasure to produce extraordinary
thunderstorms, as well as hail, snow, rain, and wind. There was something wild in his countenance,
and in his long, spreading, and tangled hoary beard. He asked alms fiercely, allowing the travellers
to drink from earthen cups that he had set out upon a great stone, but signing to them to go
quickly by without stopping. He scolded those who made a noise, 'for,' said he to me (after
I had entered his cave and smoothed him down with a half rupee which I put in his hand with
all humility), 'noise here raises furious storms. Aurangzíb has done well in taking my advice
and prohibiting it. Shah Jehan always did the like. But Jehangir once chose to laugh at what
I said, and made his drums and trumpets sound; the consequence was he nearly lost his life.'"
(Bernier, Amst. ed. 1699, II. 290.) A successor of this hermit was found on the same spot by
P. Desideri in 1713, and another by Vigne in 1837.

NOTE 3.--Though the earliest entrance of Buddhism into Tibet was from India Proper, yet Káshmir
twice in the history of Tibetan Buddhism played a most important part. It was in Káshmir that
was gathered, under the patronage of the great King Kanishka, soon after our era, the Fourth
Buddhistic Council, which marks the point of separation between Northern and Southern Buddhism.
Numerous missionaries went forth from Káshmir to spread the doctrine in Tibet and in Central
Asia. Many of the Pandits who laboured at the translation of the sacred books into Tibetan
were Kashmiris, and it was even in Káshmir that several of the translations were made. But
these were not the only circumstances that made Káshmir a holy land to the Northern Buddhists.
In the end of the 9th century the religion was extirpated in Tibet by the Julian of the Lamas,
the great persecutor Langdarma, and when it was restored, a century later, it was from Káshmir
in particular that fresh missionaries were procured to reinstruct the people in the forgotten
Law. (See Koeppen, II. 12-13, 78; J. As. sér. VI. tom. vi. 540.)

"The spread of Buddhism to Káshmir is an event of extraordinary importance in the history of
that religion. Thenceforward that country became a mistress in the Buddhist Doctrine and the
headquarters of a particular school.... The influence of Káshmir was very marked, especially
in the spread of Buddhism beyond India. From Káshmir it penetrated to Kandahar and Kabul,...
and thence over Bactria. Tibetan Buddhism also had its essential origin from Káshmir;... so
great is the importance of this region in the History of Buddhism." (Vassilyev, Der Buddhismus,
I. 44.)

In the account which the Mahawanso gives of the consecration of the great Tope at Ruanwelli,
by Dutthagamini, King of Ceylon (B.C. 157), 280,000 priests (!) come from Káshmir, a far greater
number than is assigned to any other country except one. (J. A. S. B. VII. 165.)

It is thus very intelligible how Marco learned from the Mongols and the Lamas with whom he
came in contact to regard Káshmir as "the very original source from which their Religion had
spread abroad." The feeling with which they looked to Káshmir must have been nearly the same
as that with which the Buddhists of Burma look to Ceylon. But this feeling towards Káshmir
does not now, I am informed, exist in Tibet. The reverence for the holy places has reverted
to Bahar and the neighbouring "cradle-lands" of Buddhism.

It is notable that the historian Firishta, in a passage quoted by Tod, uses Marco's expression
in reference to Káshmir, almost precisely, saying that the Hindoos derived their idolatry from
Káshmir, "the foundry of magical superstition." (Rajasthan, I. 219.)

NOTE 4.--The people of Káshmir retain their beauty, but they are morally one of the most degraded
races in Asia. Long oppression, now under the Lords of Jamu as great as ever, has no doubt
aggravated this. Yet it would seem that twelve hundred years ago the evil elements were there
as well as the beauty. The Chinese traveller says: "Their manners are light and volatile, their
characters effeminate and pusillanimous.... They are very handsome, but their natural bent
is to fraud and trickery." (Pèl. Boud. II. 167-168.) Vigne's account is nearly the same. (II.
142-143.) "They are as mischievous as monkeys, and far more malicious," says Mr. Shaw (p. 292).

[Bernier says: "The women [of Kachemire] especially are very handsome; and it is from this
country that nearly every individual, when first admitted to the court of the Great Mogul,
selects wives or concubines, that his children may be whiter than the Indians, and pass for
genuine Moguls. Unquestionably, there must be beautiful women among the higher classes, if
we may judge by those of the lower orders seen in the streets and in the shops." (Travels in
the Mogul Empire, edited by Archibald Constable, 1891, p. 404.)]

NOTE 5.--In the time of Hiuen Tsang, who spent two years studying in Káshmir in the first half
of the 7th century, though there were many Brahmans in the country, Buddhism was in a flourishing
state; there were 100 convents with about 5000 monks. In the end of the 11th century a King
(Harshadeva, 1090-1102) is mentioned exceptionally as a protector of Buddhism. The supposition
has been intimated above that Marco's picture refers to a traditional state of things, but
I must notice that a like picture is presented in the Chinese account of Hulaku's war. One
of the thirty kingdoms subdued by the Mongols was "The kingdom of Fo (Buddha) called Kishimi.
It lies to the N.W. of India. There are to be seen the men who are counted the successors of
Shakia; their ancient and venerable air recalls the countenance of Bodi-dharma as one sees
it in pictures. They abstain from wine, and content themselves with a gill of rice for their
daily food, and are occupied only in reciting the prayers and litanies of Fo." (Rém. N. Mél.
Asiat. I. 179.) Abu'l Fazl says that on his third visit with Akbar to Káshmir he discovered
some old men of the religion of Buddha, but none of them were literati. The Rishis, of whom
he speaks with high commendation as abstaining from meat and from female society, as charitable
and unfettered by traditions, were perhaps a modified remnant of the Buddhist Eremites. Colonel
Newall, in a paper on the Rishis of Káshmir, traces them to a number of Shiáh Sayads, who fled
to Káshmir in the time of Timur. But evidently the genus was of much earlier date, long preceding
the introduction of Islam. (Vie et V. de H. T. p. 390; Lassen, III. 709; Ayeen Akb. II. 147,
III. 151; J. A. S. B. XXXIX. pt. i. 265.)

We see from the Dabistan that in the 17th century Káshmir continued to be a great resort of
Magian mystics and sages of various sects, professing great abstinence and credited with preternatural
powers. And indeed Vámbéry tells us that even in our own day the Kashmiri Dervishes are pre-eminent
among their Mahomedan brethren for cunning, secret arts, skill in exorcisms, etc. (Dab. I.
113 seqq. II. 147-148; Vámb. Sk. of Cent. Asia, 9.)

NOTE 6.--The first precept of the Buddhist Decalogue, or Ten Obligations of the Religious Body,
is not to take life. But animal food is not forbidden, though restricted. Indeed it is one
of the circumstances in the Legendary History of Sakya Muni, which looks as if it must be true,
that he is related to have aggravated his fatal illness by eating a dish of pork set before
him by a hospitable goldsmith. Giorgi says the butchers in Tibet are looked on as infamous;
and people selling sheep or the like will make a show of exacting an assurance that these are
not to be slaughtered. In Burma, when a British party wanted beef, the owner of the bullocks
would decline to make one over, but would point one out that might be shot by the foreigners.

In Tibetan history it is told of the persecutor Langdarma that he compelled members of the
highest orders of the clergy to become hunters and butchers. A Chinese collection of epigrams,
dating from the 9th century, gives a facetious list of Incongruous Conditions, among which
we find a poor Parsi, a sick Physician, a fat Bride, a Teacher who does not know his letters,
and a Butcher who reads the Scriptures (of Buddhism)! (Alph. Tib. 445; Koeppen, I. 74; N. and
Q., C. and J. III. 33.)

NOTE 7.--Coral is still a very popular adornment in the Himalayan countries. The merchant Tavernier
says the people to the north of the Great Mogul's territories and in the mountains of Assam
and Tibet were the greatest purchasers of coral. (Tr. in India, Bk. II. ch. xxiii.)

CHAPTER XXXII.

OF THE GREAT RIVER OF BADASHAN. There are great numbers of all kinds of wild beasts; among
others, wild sheep of great size, whose horns are good six palms in length. From these horns
the shepherds make great bowls to eat from, and they use the horns also to enclose folds for
their cattle at night. [Messer Marco was told also that the wolves were numerous, and killed
many of those wild sheep. The region is so lofty and cold that you do not even see any birds
flying. The country is called BOLOR. The people dwell high up in the mountains, and are savage
Idolaters, living only by the chase, and clothing themselves in the skins of beasts. They are
in truth an evil race.[NOTE 3]

NOTE 1.--["The length of Little Pamir, according to Trotter, is 68 miles.... To find the twelve
days' ride in the plain of Marco Polo, it must be admitted, says Severtsof (Bul. Soc. Géog.
XI. 1890, pp. 588-589), that he went down a considerable distance along the south-north course
of the Aksu, in the Aktash Valley, and did not turn towards Tásh Kurgán, by the Neza Tash Pass,
crossed by Gordon and Trotter. The descent from this pass to Tásh Kurgán finishes with a difficult
and narrow defile, which may well be overflowed at the great melting of snow, from the end
of May till the middle of June, even to July.

"Therefore he must have left the Aksu Valley to cross the Pass of Tagharma, about 50 or 60
kilometres to the north of the Neza Tash Pass; thence to Kashgar, the distance, in a straight
line, is about 200 kilometres, and less than 300 by the shortest route which runs from the
Tagharma Pass to little Kara Kul, and from there down to Yangi Hissar, along the Ghidjik. And
Marco Polo assigns forty days for this route, while he allows but thirty for the journey of
500 kilometres (at least) from Jerm to the foot of the Tagharma Pass."

Professor Paquier (Bul. Soc. Géog. 6'e Sér. XII. pp. 121-125) remarks that the Moonshee, sent
by Captain Trotter to survey the Oxus between Ishkashm and Kila Wamár, could not find at the
spot marked by Yule on his map, the mouth of the Shakh-Dara, but northward 7 or 8 miles from
the junction of the Murghab with the Oxus, he saw the opening of an important water-course,
the Suchnan River, formed by the Shakh-Dara and the Ghund-Dara. Marco arrived at a place between
Northern Wakhán and Shihgnan; from the Central Pamir, Polo would have taken a route identical
with that of the Mirza (1868-1869) by the Chichiklik Pass. Professor Paquier adds: "I have
no hesitation in believing that Marco Polo was in the neighbourhood of that great commercial
road, which by the Vallis Comedarum reached the foot of the Imaüs. He probably did not venture
on a journey of fifty marches in an unknown country. At the top of the Shihgnan Valley, he
doubtless found a road marked out to Little Bukharia. This was the road followed in ancient
times from Bactrian to Serica; and Ptolemy has, so to speak, given us its landmarks after Marinus
of Tyre, by the Vallis Comedarum (Valley of actual Shihgnan); the Turris Lapidea and the Statio
Mercatorum, neighbourhood of Tash Kurgan, capital of the present province of Sar-i-kol."

I must say that accepting, as I do, for Polo's Itinerary, the route from Wakhán to Kashgar
by the Taghdum-Bash Pamir, and Tásh Kurgán, I do not agree with Professor Paquier's theory.

WAKHÁN was restored to geography by Macartney, in the able map which he compiled for Elphinstone's
Caubul, and was made known more accurately by Wood's journey through it. [The district of Wakhán
"comprises the valleys containing the two heads of the Panjah branch of the Oxus, and the valley
of the Panjah itself, from the junction at Zung down to Ishkashím. The northern branch of the
Panjah has its principal source in the Lake Victoria in the Great Pamir, which as well as the
Little Pámir, belongs to Wakhán, the Aktash River forming the well recognized boundary between
Kashgaria and Wakhán." (Captain Trotter, Forsyth's Mission, p. 275.) The southern branch is
the Sarhadd Valley.--H. C.] The lowest part is about 8000 feet above the sea, and the highest
Kishlak, or village, about 11,500. A few willows and poplars are the only trees that can stand
against the bitter blasts that blow down the valley. Wood estimated the total population of
the province at only 1000 souls, though it might be capable of supporting 5000.[1] He saw it,
however, in the depth of winter. As to the peculiar language, see note I, ch. xxix. It is said
to be a very old dialect of Persian. A scanty vocabulary was collected by Hayward. (J. R. G.
S. XXI. p. 29.) The people, according to Shaw, have Aryan features, resembling those of the
Kashmiris, but harsher.

[Cf. Captain Trotter's The Oxus below Wakhan, Forsyth's Mission, p. 276.]

We appear to see in the indications of this paragraph precisely the same system of government
that now prevails in the Oxus valleys. The central districts of Faizabad and Jerm are under
the immediate administration of the Mír of Badakhshan, whilst fifteen other districts, such
as Kishm, Rusták, Zebák, Ishkáshm, Wakhán, are dependencies "held by the relations of the Mír,
or by hereditary rulers, on a feudal tenure, conditional on fidelity and military service in
time of need, the holders possessing supreme authority in their respective territories, and
paying little or no tribute to the paramount power." (Pandit Manphul.) The first part of the
valley of which Marco speaks as belonging to a brother of the Prince, may correspond to Ishkáshm,
or perhaps to Vardoj; the second, Wakhán, seems to have had a hereditary ruler; but both were
vassals of the Prince of Badakhshan, and therefore are styled Counts, not kings or Seigneurs.

The native title which Marco gives as the equivalent of Count is remarkable. Non or None, as
it is variously written in the texts, would in French form represent Nono in Italian. Pauthier
refers this title to the "Rao-nana (or nano) Rao" which figures as the style of Kanerkes in
the Indo-Scythic coinage. But Wilson (Ariana Antiqua, p. 358) interprets Raonano as most probably
a genitive plural of Rao, whilst the whole inscription answers precisely to the Greek one [Greek:
BASILEUS BASILEON KANAERKOU] which is found on other coins of the same prince. General Cunningham,
a very competent authority, adheres to this view, and writes: "I do not think None or Non can
have any connection with the Nana of the coins."

It is remarkable, however, that NONO (said to signify "younger," or lesser) is in Tibet the
title given to a younger brother, deputy, or subordinate prince. In Cunningham's Ladak (259)
we read: "Nono is the usual term of respect which is used in addressing any young man of the
higher ranks, and when prefixed to Kahlon it means the younger or deputy minister." And again
(p. 352): "Nono is the title given to a younger brother. Nono Sungnam was the younger brother
of Chang Raphtan, the Kahlon of Bazgo." I have recently encountered the word used independently,
and precisely in Marco's application of it. An old friend, in speaking of a journey that he
had made in our Tibetan provinces, said incidentally that he had accompanied the commissioner
to the installation of a new NONO (I think in Spiti). The term here corresponds so precisely
with the explanation which Marco gives of None as a Count subject to a superior sovereign,
that it is difficult to regard the coincidence as accidental. The Yuechi or Indo-Scyths who
long ruled the Oxus countries are said to have been of Tibetan origin, and Al-Biruni repeats
a report that this was so. (Elliot. II. 9.)[2] Can this title have been a trace of their rule?
Or is it Indian?

NOTE 2.--This chapter is one of the most interesting in the book, and contains one of its most
splendid anticipations of modern exploration, whilst conversely Lieutenant John Wood's narrative
presents the most brilliant confirmation in detail of Marco's narrative.

We have very old testimony to the recognition of the great altitude of the Plateau of PAMIR
(the name which Marco gives it and which it still retains), and to the existence of the lake
(or lakes) upon its surface. The Chinese pilgrims Hwui Seng and Sung Yun, who passed this way
A.D. 518, inform us that these high lands of the Tsung Ling were commonly said to be midway
between heaven and earth. The more celebrated Hiuen Tsang, who came this way nearly 120 years
later (about 644) on his return to China, "after crossing the mountains for 700 li, arrived
at the valley of Pomilo (Pamir). This valley is 1000 li (about 200 miles) from east to west,
and 100 li (20 miles) from north to south, and lies between two snowy ranges in the centre
of the Tsung Ling mountains. The traveller is annoyed by sudden gusts of wind, and the snow-drifts
never cease, spring or summer. As the soil is almost constantly frozen, you see but a few miserable
plants, and no crops can live. The whole tract is but a dreary waste, without a trace of human
kind. In the middle of the valley is a great lake 300 li (60 miles) from east to west, and
500 li from north to south. This stands in the centre of Jambudwipa (the Buddhist [Greek: oikouménae])
on a plateau of prodigious elevation. An endless variety of creatures peoples its waters. When
you hear the murmur and clash of its waves you think you are listening to the noisy hum of
a great market in which vast crowds of people are mingling in excitement.... The lake discharges
to the west, and a river runs out of it in that direction and joins the Potsu (Oxus).... The
lake likewise discharges to the east, and a great river runs out, which flows eastward to the
western frontier of Kiesha (Káshgar), where it joins the River Sita, and runs eastward with
it into the sea." The story of an eastern outflow from the lake is, no doubt, legend, connected
with an ancient Hindu belief (see Cathay, p. 347), but Burnes in modern times heard much the
same story. And the Mirza, in 1868, took up the same impression regarding the smaller lake
called Pamir Kul, in which the southern branch of the Panja originates.

"After quitting the (frozen) surface of the river," says Wood, "we ... ascended a low hill,
which apparently bounded the valley to the eastward. On surmounting this, at 3 P.M. of the
19th February, 1838, we stood, to use a native expression, upon the Bám-i-Duniah, or 'Roof
of the World,' while before us lay stretched a noble but frozen sheet of water, from whose
western end issued the infant river of the Oxus. This fine lake (Sirikol) lies in the form
of a crescent, about 14 miles long from east to west, by an average breadth of 1 mile. On three
sides it is bordered by swelling hills about 500 feet high, while along its southern bank they
rise into mountains 3500 feet above the lake, or 19,000 feet above the sea, and covered with
perpetual snow, from which never-failing source the lake is supplied.... Its elevation, measured
by the temperature of boiling water, is 15,600 feet."

The absence of birds on Pamir, reported by Marco, probably shows that he passed very late or
early in the season. Hiuen Tsang, we see, gives a different account; Wood was there in the
winter, but heard that in summer the lake swarmed with water-fowl. [Cf. Captain Trotter, p.
263, in Forsyth's Mission.]

The Pamir Steppe was crossed by Benedict Goës late in the autumn of 1603, and the narrative
speaks of the great cold and desolation, and the difficulty of breathing. We have also an abstract
of the journey of Abdul Mejid, a British Agent, who passed Pamir on his way to Kokan in 1861:--"Fourteen
weary days were occupied in crossing the steppe; the marches were long, depending on uncertain
supplies of grass and water, which sometimes wholly failed them; food for man and beast had
to be carried with the party, for not a trace of human habitation is to be met with in those
inhospitable wilds.... The steppe is interspersed with tamarisk jungle and the wild willow,
and in the summer with tracts of high grass." (Neumann, Pilgerfahrten Buddh. Priester, p. 50;
V. et V. de H. T. 271-272; Wood, 232; Proc. R. G. S. X. 150.)

There is nothing absolutely to decide whether Marco's route from Wakhán lay by Wood's Lake
"Sirikol," or Victoria, or by the more southerly source of the Oxus in Pamir Kul. These routes
would unite in the valley of Táshkurgán, and his road thence to Kashgar was, I apprehend, nearly
the same as the Mirza's in 1868-1869, by the lofty Chichiklik Pass and Kin Valley. But I cannot
account for the forty days of wilderness. The Mirza was but thirty-four days from Faizabad
to Kashgar, and Faiz Bakhsh only twenty-five.

[Severtsof (Bul. Soc. Géog. XI. 1890, p. 587), who accepts Trotter's route, by the Pamir Khurd
(Little Pamir), says there are three routes from Wakhán to Little Pamir, going up the Sarhadd:
one during the winter, by the frozen river; the two others available during the spring and
the summer, up and down the snowy chain along the right bank of the Sarhadd, until the valley
widens out into a plain, where a swelling is hardly to be seen, so flat is it; this chain is
the dividing ridge between the Sarhadd and the Aksu. From the summit, the traveller, looking
towards the west, sees at his feet the mountains he has crossed; to the east, the Pamir Kul
and the Aksu, the river flowing from it. The pasture grounds around the Pamir Kul and the sources
of the Sarhadd are magnificent; but lower down, the Aksu valley is arid, dotted only with pasture
grounds of little extent, and few and far between. It is to this part of Pamir that Marco Polo's
description applies; more than any other part of this ensemble of high valleys, this line of
water parting, of the Sarhadd and the Aksu, has the aspect of a Roof of the World (Bam-i-dunya,
Persian name of Pamir).--H. C.].

[We can trace Marco Polo's route from Wakhán, on comparing it with Captain Younghusband's Itinerary
from Kashgar, which he left on the 22nd July, 1891, for Little Pamir: Little Pamir at Bozai-Gumbaz,
joins with the Pamir-i-Wakhán at the Wakhijrui Pass, first explored by Colonel Lockhart's mission.
Hence the route lies by the old fort of Kurgan-i-Ujadbai at the junction of the two branches
of the Tagh-dum-bash Pamir (Supreme Head of the Mountains), the Tagh-dum-bash Pamir, Tásh Kurgán,
Bulun Kul, the Gez Defile and Kashgar. (Proc. R. G. S. XIV. 1892, pp. 205-234.)--H. C.]

We may observe that Severtsof asserts Pamir to be a generic term, applied to all high plateaux
in the Thian Shan.[3]

["The Pámír plateau may be described as a great, broad, rounded ridge, extending north and
south, and crossed by thick mountain chains, between which lie elevated valleys, open and gently
sloping towards the east, but narrow and confined, with a rapid fall towards the west. The
waters which run in all, with the exception of the eastern flow from the Tághdúngbásh, collect
in the Oxus; the Áksú from the Little Pámír lake receiving the eastern drainage, which finds
an outlet in the Áktásh Valley, and joining the Múrgháb, which obtains that from the Alichór
and Síríz Pámirs. As the eastern Tághdúngbásh stream finds its way into the Yarkand river,
the watershed must be held as extending from that Pámír, down the range dividing it from the
Little Pámír, and along the Neza Tásh mountains to the Kizil Art Pass, leading to the Alái."
(Colonel Gordon, Forsyth's Mission, p. 231.)

Lieutenant-Colonel Gordon (Forsyth's Mission, p. 231) says also: "Regarding the name 'Pámír,'
the meaning appears to be wilderness--a place depopulated, abandoned, waste, yet capable of
habitation. I obtained this information on the Great Pámír from one of our intelligent guides,
who said in explanation--'In former days, when this part was inhabited by Kirghiz, as is shown
by the ruins of their villages and burial-grounds, the valley was not all called Pámír, as
it is now. It was known by its village names, as is the country beyond Sirikol, which being
now occupied by Kirghiz is not known by one name, but partly as Chárling, Bas Robát, etc. If
deserted it would be Pámír." In a note Sir T. D. Forsyth adds that the same explanation of
the word was given to him at Yangi-Hissar, and that it is in fact a Khokandi-Turki word.--H. C.]

It would seem, from such notices as have been received, that there is not, strictly speaking,
one steppe called Pamir, but a variety of Pamirs, which are lofty valleys between ranges of
hills, presenting luxuriant summer pasture, and with floors more or less flat, but nowhere
more than 5 or 6 miles in width and often much less.

[This is quite exact; Mr. E. Delmar Morgan writes in the Scottish Geog. Mag. January, 1892,
p. 17: "Following the terminology of Yule adopted by geographers, and now well established,
we have (1) Pamir Alichur; (2) Pamir Khurd (or "Little"); (3) Pamir Kalan (or "Great"); (4)
Pamir Khargosi ("of the hare"); (5) Pamir Sares; (6) Pamir Rang-kul."--H. C.]

Wood speaks of the numerous wolves in this region. And the great sheep is that to which Blyth,
in honour of our traveller, has given the name of Ovis Poli.[4] A pair of horns, sent by Wood
to the Royal Asiatic Society, and of which a representation is given above, affords the following
dimensions:--Length of one horn on the curve, 4 feet 8 inches; round the base 14-1/4 inches;
distance of tips apart 3 feet 9 inches. This sheep appears to be the same as the Rass, of which
Burnes heard that the horns were so big that a man could not lift a pair, and that foxes bred
in them; also that the carcass formed a load for two horses. Wood says that these horns supply
shoes for the Kirghiz horses, and also a good substitute for stirrup-irons. "We saw numbers
of horns strewed about in every direction, the spoils of the Kirghiz hunter. Some of these
were of an astonishingly large size, and belonged to an animal of a species between a goat
and a sheep, inhabiting the steppes of Pamir. The ends of the horns projecting above the snow
often indicated the direction of the road; and wherever they were heaped in large quantities
and disposed in a semicircle, there our escort recognised the site of a Kirghiz summer encampment....
We came in sight of a rough-looking building, decked out with the horns of the wild sheep,
and all but buried amongst the snow. It was a Kirghiz burying-ground." (Pp. 223, 229, 231)

[With reference to Wood's remark that the horns of the Ovis Poli supply shoes for the Kirghiz
horses, Mr. Rockhill writes to me that a Paris newspaper of 24th November, 1894, observes:
"Horn shoes made of the horn of sheep are successfully used in Lyons. They are especially adapted
to horses employed in towns, where the pavements are often slippery. Horses thus shod can be
driven, it is said, at the most rapid pace over the worst pavement without slipping."

(Cf. Rockhill, Rubruck, p. 69; Chasses et Explorations dans la Région des Pamirs, par le Vte.
Ed. de Poncins, Paris, 1897, 8vo.--H. C.).]

In 1867 this great sheep was shot by M. Severtsof, on the Plateau of Aksai, in the western
Thian Shan. He reports these animals to go in great herds, and to be very difficult to kill.
However, he brought back two specimens. The Narin River is stated to be the northern limit
of the species.[5] Severtsof also states that the enemies of the Ovis Poli are the wolves,
[and Colonel Gordon says that the leopards and wolves prey almost entirely upon them. (On the
Ovis Poli, see Captain Deasy, In Tibet, p. 361.)--H. C.]

Colonel Gordon, the head of the exploring party detached by Sir Douglas Forsyth, brought away
a head of Ovis Poli, which quite bears out the account by its eponymus of horns "good 6 palms
in length," say 60 inches. This head, as I learn from a letter of Colonel Gordon's to a friend,
has one horn perfect which measures 65-1/2 inches on the curves; the other, broken at the tip
measures 64 inches; the straight line between the tips is 55 inches.

[Captain Younghusband [1886] "before leaving the Altai Mountains, picked up several heads of
the Ovis Poli, called Argali by the Mongols. They were somewhat different from those which
I afterwards saw at Yarkand, which had been brought in from the Pamir. Those I found in the
Gobi were considerably thicker at the base, there was a less degree of curve, and a shorter
length of horn." A full description of the Ovis Poli, with a large plate drawing of the horns,
may be seen in Colonel Gordon's Roof of the World. (See p. 81.) (Proc. R. G. S. X. 1888, p.
495.) Some years later, Captain Younghusband speaks repeatedly of the great sport of shooting
Ovis Poli. (Proc. R. G. S. XIV. 1892, pp. 205, 234.)--H. C.]

As to the pasture, Timkowski heard that "the pasturage of Pamir is so luxuriant and nutritious,
that if horses are left on it for more than forty days they die of repletion." (I. 421.) And
Wood: "The grass of Pamir, they tell you, is so rich that a sorry horse is here brought into
good condition in less than twenty days; and its nourishing qualities are evidenced in the
productiveness of their ewes, which almost invariably bring forth two lambs at a birth." (P. 365.)

With regard to the effect upon fire ascribed to the "great cold," Ramusio's version inserts
the expression "gli fu affermato per miracolo," "it was asserted to him as a wonderful circumstance."
And Humboldt thinks it so strange that Marco should not have observed this personally that
he doubts whether Polo himself passed the Pamir. "How is it that he does not say that he himself
had seen how the flames disperse and leap about, as I myself have so often experienced at similar
altitudes in the Cordilleras of the Andes, especially when investigating the boiling-point
of water?" (Cent. Asia, Germ. Transl. I. 588.) But the words quoted from Ramusio do not exist
in the old texts, and they are probably an editorial interpolation indicating disbelief in
the statement.

MM. Huc and Gabet made a like observation on the high passes of north-eastern Tibet: "The argols
gave out much smoke, but would not burn with any flame"; only they adopted the native idea
that this as well as their own sufferings in respiration was caused by some pernicious exhalation.

Major Montgomerie, R.E., of the Indian Survey, who has probably passed more time nearer the
heavens than any man living, sends me the following note on this passage: "What Marco Polo
says as to fire at great altitudes not cooking so effectually as usual is perfectly correct
as far as anything boiled is concerned, but I doubt if it is as to anything roasted. The want
of brightness in a fire at great altitudes is, I think, altogether attributable to the poorness
of the fuel, which consists of either small sticks or bits of roots, or of argols of dung,
all of which give out a good deal of smoke, more especially the latter if not quite dry; but
I have often seen a capital blaze made with the argols when perfectly dry. As to cooking, we
found that rice, dál, and potatoes would never soften properly, no matter how long they were
boiled. This, of course, was due to the boiling-point being only from 170° to 180°. Our tea,
moreover, suffered from the same cause, and was never good when we were over 15,000 feet. This
was very marked. Some of my natives made dreadful complaints about the rice and dál that they
got from the village-heads in the valleys, and vowed that they only gave them what was very
old and hard, as they could not soften it!"

NOTE 3.--Bolor is a subject which it would take several pages to discuss with fulness, and
I must refer for such fuller discussion to a paper in the J. R. G. S. vol. xlii. p. 473.

The name Bolor is very old, occurring in Hiuen Tsang's Travels (7th century), and in still
older Chinese works of like character. General Cunningham has told us that Balti is still termed
Balor by the Dards of Gilghit; and Mr. Shaw, that Palor is an old name still sometimes used
by the Kirghiz for the upper part of Chitrál. The indications of Hiuen Tsang are in accordance
with General Cunningham's information; and the fact that Chitrál is described under the name
of Bolor in Chinese works of the last century entirely justifies that of Mr. Shaw. A Pushtu
poem of the 17th century, translated by Major Raverty, assigns the mountains of Bilaur-istán,
as the northern boundary of Swát. The collation of these indications shows that the term Bolor
must have been applied somewhat extensively to the high regions adjoining the southern margin
of Pamir. And a passage in the Táríkh Rashídí, written at Kashgar in the 16th century by a
cousin of the great Baber, affords us a definition of the tract to which, in its larger sense,
the name was thus applied: "Malaur (i.e. Balaur or Bolor) ... is a country with few level spots.
It has a circuit of four months' march. The eastern frontier borders on Kashgar and Yarkand;
it has Badakhshan to the north, Kabul to the west, and Kashmír to the south." The writer was
thoroughly acquainted with his subject, and the region which he so defines must have embraced
Sirikol and all the wild country south of Yarkand, Balti, Gilghit, Yasin, Chitrál, and perhaps
Kafiristán. This enables us to understand Polo's use of the term.

The name of Bolor in later days has been in a manner a symbol of controversy. It is prominent
in the apocryphal travels of George Ludwig von ----, preserved in the Military Archives at
St. Petersburg. That work represents a town of Bolor as existing to the north of Badakhshan,
with Wakhán still further to the north. This geography we now know to be entirely erroneous,
but it is in full accordance with the maps and tables of the Jesuit missionaries and their
pupils, who accompanied the Chinese troops to Kashgar in 1758-1759. The paper in the Geographical
Society's Journal, which has been referred to, demonstrates how these erroneous data must have
originated. It shows that the Jesuit geography was founded on downright accidental error, and,
as a consequence, that the narratives which profess de visu to corroborate that geography must
be downright forgeries. When the first edition was printed, I retained the belief in a Bolor
where the Jesuits placed it.

[The Chinese traveller, translated by M. Gueluy (Desc. de la Chine occid. p. 53), speaks of
Bolor, to the west of Yarkand, inhabited by Mahomedans who live in huts; the country is sandy
and rather poor. Severtsof says, (Bul. Soc. Géog. XI. 1890, p. 591) that he believes that the
name of Bolor should be expunged from geographical nomenclature as a source of confusion and
error. Humboldt, with his great authority, has too definitely attached this name to an erroneous
orographical system. Lieutenant-Colonel Gordon says that he "made repeated enquiries from Kirghiz
and Wakhis, and from the Mír [of Wakhán], Fatteh Ali Shah, regarding 'Bólór,' as a name for
any mountain, country, or place, but all professed perfect ignorance of it." (Forsyth's Mission.)--H.
C.]

The J. A. S. Bengal for 1853 (vol. xxii.) contains extracts from the diary of a Mr. Gardiner
in those central regions of Asia. These read more like the memoranda of a dyspeptic dream than
anything else, and the only passage I can find illustrative of our traveller is the following;
the region is described as lying twenty days south-west of Kashgar: "The Keiaz tribe live in
caves on the highest peaks, subsist by hunting, keep no flocks, said to be anthropophagous,
but have handsome women; eat their flesh raw." (P. 295; Pèlerins Boud. III. 316, 421, etc.;
Ladak, 34, 45, 47; Mag. Asiatique, I. 92, 96-97; Not. et Ext. II. 475, XIV. 492; J. A. S. B.
XXXI. 279; Mr. R. Shaw in Geog. Proceedings, XVI. 246, 400; Notes regarding Bolor, etc., J.
R. G. S. XLII. 473.)

As this sheet goes finally to press we hear of the exploration of Pamir by officers of Mr.
Forsyth's Mission. [I have made use of the information collected by them.--H. C.]

[1] "Yet this barren and inaccessible upland, with its scanty handful of
    wild people, finds a place in Eastern history and geography from an
    early period, and has now become the subject of serious correspondence
    between two great European Governments, and its name, for a few weeks
    at least, a household word in London. Indeed, this is a striking
    accident of the course of modern history. We see the Slav and the
    Englishman--representatives of two great branches of the Aryan race,
    but divided by such vast intervals of space and time from the original
    common starting-point of their migration--thus brought back to the lap
    of Pamir to which so many quivering lines point as the centre of their
    earliest seats, there by common consent to lay down limits to mutual
    encroachment." (Quarterly Review, April, 1873, p. 548.)

[2] Ibn Haukal reckons Wakhán as an Indian country. It is a curious
    coincidence (it can scarcely be more) that Nono in the Garo tongue
    of Eastern Bengal signifies "a younger brother." (J. A. S. B. XXII.
    153, XVIII. 208.)

[3] According to Colonel Tod, the Hindu bard Chand speaks of "Pamer, chief
    of mountains." (I. p. 24.) But one may like and respect Colonel Tod
    without feeling able to rely on such quotations of his unconfirmed.

[4] Usually written Polii, which is nonsense.

[5] ["The Tian Shan wild sheep has since been described as the Ovis
    Karelini, a species somewhat smaller than the true Ovis Poli which
    frequents the Pamirs." (Colonel Gordon, Roof of the World, p. 83,
    note.)--H. C.]

CHAPTER XXXIII.

OF THE KINGDOM OF CASCAR.

Cascar is a region lying between north-east and east, and constituted a kingdom in former days,
but now it is subject to the Great Kaan. The people worship Mahommet. There are a good number
of towns and villages, but the greatest and finest is Cascar itself. The inhabitants live by
trade and handicrafts; they have beautiful gardens and vineyards, and fine estates, and grow
a great deal of cotton. From this country many merchants go forth about the world on trading
journeys. There are in the country many Nestorian Christians, who have churches of their own.
The people of the country have a peculiar language, and the territory extends for five days'
journey.[NOTE 1]

NOTE 1.--[There is no longer any difficulty in understanding how the travellers, after crossing
Pamir, should have arrived at Kashgar if they followed the route from Táshkurgán through the
Gez Defile.

The Itinerary of the Mirza from Badakhshan (Fáizabad) is the following: Zebak, Ishkashm, on
the Panja, which may be considered the beginning of the Wakhán Valley, Panja Fort, in Wakhán,
Raz Khan, Patur, near Lunghar (commencement of Pamir Steppe), Pamir Kul, or Barkút Yassin,
13,300 feet, Aktash, Sirikul Táshkurgán, Shukrab, Chichik Dawan, Akul, Kotul, Chahul Station
(road to Yarkand) Kila Karawal, Aghiz Gah, Yangi-Hissar, Opechan, Yanga Shahr, Kashgar, where
he arrived on the 3rd February, 1869. (Cf. Report of "The Mirza's" Exploration from Caubul
to Kashgar. By Major T. G. Montgomerie, R.E.... (Jour. R. Geog. Soc. XLI. 1871, pp. 132-192.)

Major Montgomerie (l.c. p. 144) says: "The alterations in the positions of Kashgar and Yarkund
in a great measure explains why Marco Polo, in crossing from Badakhshan to Eastern Turkestan,
went first to Kashgar and then to Yarkund. With the old positions of Yarkund and Kashgar it
appeared that the natural route from Badakhshan would have led first to Yarkund; with the new
positions, and guided by the light of the Mirza's route, from which it is seen that the direct
route to Yarkund is not a good one, it is easy to understand how a traveller might prefer going
to Kashgar first, and then to Yarkund. It is satisfactory to have elicited this further proof
of the general accuracy of the great traveller's account of his journey through Central Asia."

The Itinerary of Lieutenant-Colonel Gordon (Sirikol, the Pámírs and Wakhán, ch. vi. of Forsyth's
Mission to Yarkund in 1873) runs thus: "Left Káshgar (21st March), Yangi-Hissar, Kaskasú Pass,
descent to Chihil Gumbaz (forty Domes), where the road branches off to Yárkand (110 miles),
Torut Pass, Tangi-Tár (defile), 'to the foot of a great elevated slope leading to the Chichiklik
Pass, plain, and lake (14,700 feet), below the Yámbulák and Kok-Moinok Passes, which are used
later in the season on the road between Yangi-Hissár and Sirikol, to avoid the Tangi-Tár and
Shindi defiles. As the season advances, these passes become free from snow, while the defiles
are rendered dangerous and difficult by the rush of the melting snow torrents. From the Chichiklik
plain we proceeded down the Shindi ravine, over an extremely bad stony road, to the Sirikol
River, up the banks of which we travelled to Táshkurgán, reaching it on the tenth day from
Yangi-Hissar. The total distance is 125 miles.' Then Táshkurgán (ancient name Várshídi): 'the
open part of the Sirikol Valley extends from about 8 miles below Táshkurgán to apparently a
very considerable distance towards the Kunjút mountain range;' left Táshkurgán for Wákhan (2nd
April, 1873); leave Sirikol Valley, enter the Shindán defile, reach the Áktásh Valley, follow
the Áktásh stream (called Áksú by the Kirghiz) through the Little Pamir to the Gházkul (Little
Pamir) Lake or Barkat Yássín, from which it takes its rise, four days from Táshkurgán.

It is not easy to see how Kashgar should have been subject to the Great Kaan, except in the
sense in which all territories under Mongol rule owed him homage. Yarkand, Polo acknowledges
to have belonged to Kaidu, and the boundary between Kaidu's territory and the Kaan's lay between
Karashahr and Komul [Bk. I. ch. xli.], much further east.

[Bretschneider, Med. Res. (II. p. 47), says: "Marco Polo states with respect to the kingdom
of Cascar (I. 189) that it was subject to the Great Khan, and says the same regarding Cotan
(I. 196), whilst Yarcan (I. 195), according to Marco Polo, belonged to Kaidu. This does not
agree with Rashid's statements about the boundary between Kaidu's territory and the Khan's."--H.
C.]

Kashgar was at this time a Metropolitan See of the Nestorian Church. (Cathay, etc. 275, ccxlv.)

Many strange sayings have been unduly ascribed to our traveller, but I remember none stranger
than this by Colonel Tod: "Marco Polo calls Cashgar, where he was in the 6th century, the birthplace
of the Swedes"! (Rajasthan, I. 60.) Pétis de la Croix and Tod between them are answerable for
this nonsense. (See The Hist. of Genghizcan the Great, p. 116.)

On cotton, see ch. xxxvi.--On Nestorians, see Kanchau.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

OF THE GREAT CITY OF SAMARCAN.

Samarcan is a great and noble city towards the north-west, inhabited by both Christians and
Saracens, who are subject to the Great Kaan's nephew, CAIDOU by name; he is, however, at bitter
enmity with the Kaan.[NOTE 1] I will tell you of a great marvel that happened at this city.

It is not a great while ago that SIGATAY, own brother to the Great Kaan, who was Lord of this
country and of many an one besides, became a Christian.[NOTE 2] The Christians rejoiced greatly
at this, and they built a great church in the city, in honour of John the Baptist; and by his
name the church was called. And they took a very fine stone which belonged to the Saracens,
and placed it as the pedestal of a column in the middle of the church, supporting the roof.
It came to pass, however, that Sigatay died. Now the Saracens were full of rancour about that
stone that had been theirs, and which had been set up in the church of the Christians; and
when they saw that the Prince was dead, they said one to another that now was the time to get
back their stone, by fair means or by foul. And that they might well do, for they were ten
times as many as the Christians. So they gat together and went to the church and said that
the stone they must and would have. The Christians acknowledged that it was theirs indeed,
but offered to pay a large sum of money and so be quit. Howbeit, the others replied that they
never would give up the stone for anything in the world. And words ran so high that the Prince
heard thereof, and ordered the Christians either to arrange to satisfy the Saracens, if it
might be, with money, or to give up the stone. And he allowed them three days to do either
the one thing or the other.

What shall I tell you? Well, the Saracens would on no account agree to leave the stone where
it was, and this out of pure despite to the Christians, for they knew well enough that if the
stone were stirred the church would come down by the run. So the Christians were in great trouble
and wist not what to do. But they did do the best thing possible; they besought Jesus Christ
that he would consider their case, so that the holy church should not come to destruction,
nor the name of its Patron Saint, John the Baptist, be tarnished by its ruin. And so when the
day fixed by the Prince came round, they went to the church betimes in the morning, and lo,
they found the stone removed from under the column; the foot of the column was without support,
and yet it bore the load as stoutly as before! Between the foot of the column and the ground
there was a space of three palms. So the Saracens had away their stone, and mighty little joy
withal. It was a glorious miracle, nay, it is so, for the column still so standeth, and will
stand as long as God pleaseth.[NOTE 3]

Now let us quit this and continue our journey.

NOTE 1.--Of Kaidu, Kúblái Kaan's kinsman and rival, and their long wars, we shall have to speak
later. He had at this time a kind of joint occupancy of SAMARKAND and Bokhara with the Khans
of Chagatai, his cousins.

[On Samarkand generally see: Samarqand, by W. Radloff, translated into French by L. Leger,
Rec. d'Itin. dans l'Asie Centrale, Ecole des Langues Orient., Paris, 1878, p. 284 et seq.;
A travers le royaume de Tamerlan (Asie Centrale) ... par Guillaume Capus ... Paris, 1892, 8vo.--H.
C.]

Marco evidently never was at Samarkand, though doubtless it was visited by his Father and Uncle
on their first journey, when we know they were long at Bokhara.

As regards the Christians of Samarkand who figure in the preceding story, we may note that
the city had been one of the Metropolitan Sees of the Nestorian Church since the beginning
of the 8th century, and had been a bishopric perhaps two centuries earlier. Prince Sempad,
High Constable of Armenia, in a letter written from Samarkand in 1246 or 1247, mentions several
circumstances illustrative of the state of things indicated in this story: "I tell you that
we have found many Christians scattered all over the East, and many fine churches, lofty, ancient,
and of good architecture, which have been spoiled by the Turks. Hence, the Christians of this
country came to the presence of the reigning Kaan's grandfather (i.e. Chinghiz); he received
them most honourably, and granted them liberty of worship, and issued orders to prevent their
having any just cause of complaint by word or deed. And so the Saracens, who used to treat
them with contempt, have now the like treatment in double measure."

Shortly after Marco's time, viz. in 1328, Thomas of Mancasola, a Dominican, who had come from
Samarkand with a Mission to the Pope (John XXII.) from Ilchigadai, Khan of Chagatai, was appointed
Latin Bishop of that city. (Mosheim, p. 110, etc.; Cathay, p. 192.)

NOTE 2.--CHAGATAI, here called Sigatay, was Uncle, not Brother, to the Great Kaan (Kúblái).
Nor was Kaidu either Chagatai's son or Kúblái's nephew, as Marco here and elsewhere represents
him to be. (See Bk. IV. ch. i.) The term used to describe Chagatai's relationship is frère
charnel, which excludes ambiguity, cousinship, or the like (such as is expressed by the Italian
fratello cugíno), and corresponds, I believe, to the brother german of Scotch law documents.

NOTE 3.--One might say, These things be an allegory! We take the fine stone that belongs to
the Saracens (or Papists) to build our church on, but the day of reckoning comes at last, and
our (Irish Protestant) Christians are afraid that the Church will come about their ears. May
it stand, and better than that of Samarkand has done!

There is a story somewhat like this in D'Herbelot, about the Karmathian Heretics carrying off
the Black Stone from Mecca, and being obliged years after to bring it back across the breadth
of Arabia; on which occasion the stone conducted itself in a miraculous manner.

There is a remarkable Stone at Samarkand, the Kok-Tash or Green Stone, on which Timur's throne
was set. Tradition says that, big as it is, it was brought by him from Brusa;--but tradition
may be wrong. (See Vámbéry's Travels, p. 206.) [Also H. Moser, A travers l'Asie centrale, 114-115.
--H. C.]

[The Archimandrite Palladius (Chinese Recorder, VI. p. 108) quotes from the Chi shun Chin-kiang
chi (Description of Chin-Kiang), 14th century, the following passage regarding the pillar:
"There is a temple (in Samarcand) supported by four enormous wooden pillars, each of them 40
feet high. One of these pillars is in a hanging position, and stands off from the floor more
than a foot."--H. C.]

CHAPTER XXXV.

OF THE PROVINCE OF YARCAN.

Yarcan is a province five days' journey in extent. The people follow the Law of Mahommet, but
there are also Nestorian and Jacobite Christians. They are subject to the same Prince that
I mentioned, the Great Kaan's nephew. They have plenty of everything, [particularly of cotton.
The inhabitants are also great craftsmen, but a large proportion of them have swoln legs, and
great crops at the throat, which arises from some quality in their drinking-water.] As there
is nothing else worth telling we may pass on.[NOTE 1]

NOTE 1.--Yarkan or Yarken seems to be the general pronunciation of the name to this day, though
we write YARKAND. The more probable one is that Yarkand is made up of Yar, new, and Kand, Kend,
or Kent, city.--H. C.]

Mir 'Izzat Ullah in modern days speaks of the prevalence of goitre at Yarkand. And Mr. Shaw
informs me that during his recent visit to Yarkand (1869) he had numerous applications for
iodine as a remedy for that disease. The theory which connects it with the close atmosphere
of valleys will not hold at Yarkand. (J. R. A. S. VII. 303.)

[Dr. Sven Hedin says that three-fourths of the population of Yarkand are suffering from goitre;
he ascribes the prevalence of the disease to the bad quality of the water, which is kept in
large basins, used indifferently for bathing, washing, or draining. Only Hindu and "Andijdanlik"
merchants, who drink well water, are free from goitre.

Lieutenant Roborovsky, the companion of Pievtsov, in 1889, says: "In the streets one meets
many men and women with large goitres, a malady attributed to the bad quality of the water
running in the town conduits, and drunk by the inhabitants in its natural state. It appears
in men at the age of puberty, and in women when they marry." (Proc. R. G. S. 2 ser. XII. 1890,
p. 36.)

Formerly the Mirza (J. R. G. S. 1871, p. 181) said: "Goitre is very common in the city [of
Yarkund], and in the country round, but it is unknown in Kashgar."

General Pievtsov gives to the small oasis of Yarkand (264 square miles) a population of 150,000,
that is, 567 inhabitants per square mile. He, after Prjevalsky's death, started, with V. L.
Roborovsky (botanist) and P. K. Kozlov (zoologist), who were later joined by K. I. Bogdanovich
(geologist), on his expedition to Tibet (1889-1890). He followed the route Yarkand, Khotan,
Kiria, Nia, and Charchan.--H. C.]

CHAPTER XXXVI.

OF A PROVINCE CALLED COTAN.

Cotan is a province lying between north-east and east, and is eight days' journey in length.

The only Christian monument discovered in Khotan is a bronze cross brought back by Grenard
(III. pp. 134-135); see also Devéria, Notes d'Epigraphie Mongole, p. 80.--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--"Aourent Mahommet". Though this is Marco's usual formula to define Mahomedans, we
can scarcely suppose that he meant it literally. But in other cases it was very literally interpreted.
Thus in Baudouin de Sebourc, the Dame de Pontieu, a passionate lady who renounces her faith
before Saladin, says:--

  "'Et je renoië Dieu, et le pooir qu'il a;
  Et Marie, sa Mère, qu'on dist qui le porta;
  Mahom voel aourer, aportez-le-moi chà!'
    *  *  *  *  Li Soudans commanda
  Qu'on aportast Mahom; et celle l'aoura." (I. p. 72.)

The same romance brings in the story of the Stone of Samarkand, adapted from ch. xxxiv., and
accounts for its sanctity in Saracen eyes because it had long formed a pedestal for Mahound!

And this notion gave rise to the use of Mawmet for an idol in general; whilst from the Mahommerie
or place of Islamite worship the name of mummery came to be applied to idolatrous or unmeaning
rituals; both very unjust etymologies. Thus of mosques in Richard Coeur de Lion:

  "Kyrkes they made of Crystene Lawe,
  And her Mawmettes lete downe drawe." (Weber, II. 228.)

So Correa calls a golden idol, which was taken by Da Gama in a ship of Calicut, "an image of
Mahomed" (372). Don Quixote too, who ought to have known better, cites with admiration the
feat of Rinaldo in carrying off, in spite of forty Moors, a golden image of Mahomed.

NOTE 3.--800 li (160 miles) east of Chokiuka or Yarkand, Hiuen Tsang comes to Kiustanna (Kustána)
or KHOTAN. "The country chiefly consists of plains covered with stones and sand. The remainder,
however, is favourable to agriculture, and produces everything abundantly. From this country
are got woollen carpets, fine felts, well woven taffetas, white and black jade." Chinese authors
of the 10th century speak of the abundant grapes and excellent wine of Khotan.

Chinese annals of the 7th and 8th centuries tell us that the people of Khotan had chronicles
of their own, a glimpse of a lost branch of history. Their writing, laws, and literature were
modelled upon those of India.

Ilchi, the modern capital, was visited by Mr. Johnson, of the Indian Survey, in 1865. The country,
after the revolt against the Chinese in 1863, came first under the rule of Habíb-ullah, an
aged chief calling himself Khán Bádshah of Khotan; and since the treacherous seizure and murder
of Habíb-ullah by Ya'kub Beg of Kashgar in January 1867, it has formed a part of the kingdom
of the latter.

Mr. Johnson says: "The chief grains of the country are Indian corn, wheat, barley of two kinds,
bájra, jowár (two kinds of holcus), buckwheat and rice, all of which are superior to the Indian
grains, and are of a very fine quality.... The country is certainly superior to India, and
in every respect equal to Kashmir, over which it has the advantage of being less humid, and
consequently better suited to the growth of fruits. Olives (?), pears, apples, peaches, apricots,
mulberries, grapes, currants, and melons, all exceedingly large in size and of a delicious
flavour, are produced in great variety and abundance.... Cotton of valuable quality, and raw
silk, are produced in very large quantities."

[Khotan is the chief place of Turkestan for cotton manufactures; its khàm is to be found everywhere.
This name, which means raw in Persian, is given to a stuff made with cotton thread, which has
not undergone any preparation; they manufacture also two other cotton stuffs: alatcha with
blue and red stripes, and tchekmen, very thick and coarse, used to make dresses and sacks;
if khàm is better at Khotan, alatcha and tchekmen are superior at Kashgar. (Grenard, II. pp.
191-192.)

Grenard (II. pp. 175-177), among the fruits, mentions apricots (ourouk), ripe in June, and
so plentiful that to keep them they are dried up to be used like garlic against mountain sickness;
melons (koghoun) water-melons (tarbouz, the best are from Hami); vine (tâl)--the best grapes
(uzum) come from Boghâz langar, near Keria; the best dried grapes are those from Turfan; peaches
(shaptâlou); pomegranates (anár, best from Kerghalyk), etc.; the best apples are those of Nia
and Sadju; pears are very bad; cherries and strawberries are unknown. Grenard (II. p. 106)
also says that grapes are very good, but that Khotan wine is detestable, and tastes like vinegar.
Ilchi, the capital, has a population of about 40,000, and is a great place for manufactures.
The chief articles produced are silks, felts, carpets (both silk and woollen), coarse cotton
cloths, and paper from the mulberry fibre. The people are strict Mahomedans, and speak a Turki
dialect. Both sexes are good-looking, with a slightly Tartar cast of countenance. (V. et V.
de H. T. 278; Rémusat, H. de la V. de Khotan, 37, 73-84; Chin. Repos. IX. 128; J. R. G. S.
XXXVII. 6 seqq.)

[In 1891, Dutreuil de Rhins and Grenard at the small village of Yotkán, about 8 miles to the
west of the present Khotan, came across what they considered the most important and probably
the most ancient city of southern Chinese Turkestan. The natives say that Yotkàn is the site
of the old Capital. (Cf. Grenard, III. p. 127 et seq. for a description and drawings of coins
and objects found at this place.)

The remains of the ancient capital of Khotan were accidentally discovered, some thirty-five
years ago, at Yotkàn, a village of the Borazân Tract. A great mass of highly interesting finds
of ancient art pottery, engraved stones, and early Khotan coins with Kharosthi-Chinese legends,
coming from this site, have recently been thoroughly examined in Dr. Hoernle's Report on the
"British Collection of Central Asian Antiquities." Stein.--(See Three further Collections of
Ancient Manuscripts from Central Asia, by Dr. A. F. R. Hoernle ... Calcutta, 1897, 8vo.)

"The sacred sites of Buddhist Khotan which Hiuen Tsang and Fa-hian describe, can be shown to
be occupied now, almost without exception, by Mohamedan shrines forming the object of popular
pilgrimages." (M. A. Stein, Archaeological Work about Khotan, Jour. R. As. Soc., April, 1901,
p. 296.)

It may be justly said that during the last few years numerous traces of Hindu civilisation
have been found in Central Asia, extending from Khotan, through the Takla-Makan, as far as
Turfan, and perhaps further up.

Dr. Sven Hedin, in the year 1896, during his second journey through Takla-Makan from Khotan
to Shah Yar, visited the ruins between the Khotan Daria and the Kiria Daria, where he found
the remains of the city of Takla-Makan now buried in the sands. He discovered figures of Buddha,
a piece of papyrus with unknown characters, vestiges of habitations. This Asiatic Pompei, says
the traveller, at least ten centuries old, is anterior to the Mahomedan invasion led by Kuteïbe
Ibn-Muslim, which happened at the beginning of the 8th century. Its inhabitants were Buddhist,
and of Aryan race, probably originating from Hindustan.--Dutreuil de Rhins and Grenard discovered
in the Kumâri grottoes, in a small hill on the right bank of the Karakash Daria, a manuscript
written on birch bark in Kharoshthi characters; these grottoes of Kumâri are mentioned in Hiuen
Tsang. (II. p. 229.)

Dr. Sven Hedin followed the route Kashgar, Yangi-Hissar, Yarkand to Khotan, in 1895. He made
a stay of nine days at Ilchi, the population of which he estimated at 5500 inhabitants (5000
Musulmans, 500 Chinese).

(See also Sven Hedin, Die Geog. wissenschaft. Ergebnisse meiner Reisen in Zentralasien, 1894-1897.
Petermann's Mitt., Ergänz. XXVIII. (Hft. 131), Gotha, 1900.--H. C.]

CHAPTER XXXVII.

OF THE PROVINCE OF PEIN.

Pein is a province five days in length, lying between east and north-east. The people are worshippers
of Mahommet, and subjects of the Great Kaan. There are a good number of towns and villages,
but the most noble is PEIN, the capital of the kingdom.[NOTE 1] There are rivers in this country,
in which quantities of Jasper and Chalcedony are found.[NOTE 2] The people have plenty of all
products, including cotton. They live by manufactures and trade. But they have a custom that
I must relate.

NOTE 1.--"In old times," says the Haft Iklím., "travellers used to go from Khotan to Cathay
in 14 (?) days, and found towns and villages all along the road [excepting, it may be presumed,
on the terrible Gobi], so that there was no need to travel in caravans. In later days the fear
of the Kalmaks caused this line to be abandoned, and the circuitous one occupied 100 days."
This directer route between Khotan and China must have been followed by Fa-hian on his way
to India; by Hiuen Tsang on his way back; and by Shah Rukh's ambassadors on their return from
China in 1421. The circuitous route alluded to appears to have gone north from Khotan, crossed
the Tarimgol, and fallen into the road along the base of the Thian Shan, eventually crossing
the Desert southward from Komul.

Former commentators differed very widely as to the position of Pein, and as to the direction
of Polo's route from Khotan. The information acquired of late years leaves the latter no longer
open to doubt. It must have been nearly coincident with that of Hiuen Tsang.

The perusal of Johnson's Report of his journey to Khotan, and the Itineraries attached to it,
enabled me to feel tolerable certainty as to the position of Charchan (see next chapter), and
as to the fact that Marco followed a direct route from Khotan to the vicinity of Lake Lop.
Pein, then, was identical with PIMA,[1] which was the first city reached by Hiuen Tsang on
his return to China after quitting Khotan, and which lay 330 li east of the latter city.[2]
Other notices of Pima appear in Rémusat's history of Khotan; some of these agree exactly as
to the distance from the capital, adding that it stood on the banks of a river flowing from
the East and entering the sandy Desert; whilst one account seems to place it at 500 li from
Khotan. And in the Turkish map of Central Asia, printed in the Jahán Numá, as we learn from
Sir H. Rawlinson, the town of Pím is placed a little way north of Khotan. Johnson found Khotan
rife with stories of former cities overwhelmed by the shifting sands of the Desert, and these
sands appear to have been advancing for ages; for far to the north-east of Pima, even in the
7th century, were to be found the deserted and ruined cities of the ancient kingdoms of Tuholo
and Shemathona. "Where anciently were the seats of flourishing cities and prosperous communities,"
says a Chinese author speaking of this region, "is nothing now to be seen but a vast desert;
all has been buried in the sands, and the wild camel is hunted on those arid plains."

Pima cannot have been very far from Kiria, visited by Johnson. This is a town of 7000 houses,
lying east of Ilchi, and about 69 miles distant from it. The road for the most part lies through
a highly cultivated and irrigated country, flanked by the sandy desert at three or four miles
to the left. After passing eastward by Kiria it is said to make a great elbow, turning north;
and within this elbow lie the sands that have buried cities and fertile country. Here Mr. Shaw
supposes Pima lay (perhaps upon the river of Kiria). At Pima itself, in A. D. 644, there was
a story of the destruction of a city lying further north, a judgment on the luxury and impiety
of the people and their king, who, shocked at the eccentric aspect of a holy man, had caused
him to be buried in sand up to the mouth.

(N. et E. XIV. 477; H. de la Ville de Khotan, 63-66; Klap. Tabl. Historiques, p. 182; Proc.
R. G. S. XVI. 243.)

[Dutreuil de Rhins and Grenard took the road from Khotan to Charchan; they left Khotan on the
4th May, 1893, passed Kiria, Nia, and instead of going direct to Charchan through the desert,
they passed Kara Say at the foot of the Altyn tâgh, a route three days longer than the other,
but one which was less warm, and where water, meat, milk, and barley could be found. Having
passed Kapa, they crossed the Karamuren, and went up from Achan due north to Charchan, where
they stayed three months. Nowhere do they mention Pein, or Pima, for it appears to be Kiria
itself, which is the only real town between Khotan and the Lobnor. Grenard says in a note (p.
54, vol. ii.): "Pi-mo (Keria) recalls the Tibetan byé-ma, which is pronounced Péma, or Tchéma,
and which means sand. Such is perhaps also the origin of Pialma, a village near Khotan, and
of the old name of Charchan, Tché-mo-to-na, of which the two last syllables would represent
grong (pronounce tong = town), or kr'om (t'om = bazaar). Now, not only would this etymology
be justified because these three places are indeed surrounded with sand remarkably deep, but
as they were the first three important places with which the Tibetans met coming into the desert
of Gobi, either by the route of Gurgutluk and of Polor, or by Karakoram and Sandju, or by Tsadam,
and they had thus as good a pretext to call them 'towns of sand' as the Chinese had to give
to T'un-hwang the name of Shachau, viz. City of Sand. Kiria is called Ou-mi, under the Han,
and the name of Pi-mo is found for the first time in Hiuen Tsang, that is to say, before the
Tibetan invasions of the 8th century. It is not possible to admit that the incursion of the
Tu-ku-hun in the 5th century could be the cause of this change of name. The hypothesis remains
that Pi-mo was really the ancient name forced by the first Tibetan invaders spoken of by legend,
that Ou-mi was either another name of the town, or a fancy name invented by the Chinese, like
Yu-t'ien for Khotan, Su-lo for Kashgar...." Sir T. D. Forsyth (J. R. G. S., XLVII., 1877, p.
3) writes: "I should say that Peim or Pima must be identical with Kiria."--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--The Jasper and Chalcedony of our author are probably only varieties of the semi-precious
mineral called by us popularly Jade, by the Chinese Yü, by the Eastern Turks Kásh, by the Persians
Yashm, which last is no doubt the same word with [Greek: íaspis], and therefore with Jásper.
The Greek Jaspis was in reality, according to Mr. King, a green Chalcedony.

The Jade of Turkestan is largely derived from water-rolled boulders fished up by divers in
the rivers of Khotan, but it is also got from mines in the valley of the Karákásh River. "Some
of the Jade," says Timkowski, "is as white as snow, some dark green, like the most beautiful
emerald (?), others yellow, vermilion, and jet black. The rarest and most esteemed varieties
are the white speckled with red and the green veined with gold." (I. 395.) The Jade of Khotan
appears to be first mentioned by Chinese authors in the time of the Han Dynasty under Wu-ti
(B.C. 140-86). In A.D. 541 an image of Buddha sculptured in Jade was sent as an offering from
Khotan; and in 632 the process of fishing for the material in the rivers of Khotan, as practised
down to modern times, is mentioned. The importation of Jade or Yü from this quarter probably
gave the name of Kia-yü Kwan or "Jade Gate" to the fortified Pass looking in this direction
on the extreme N. W. of China Proper, between Shachau and Suhchau. Since the detachment from
China the Jade industry has ceased, the Musulmans having no taste for that kind of virtù. (H.
de la V. de Khotan, 2, 17, 23; also see J. R. G. S. XXXVI. 165, and Cathay, 130, 564; Ritter,
II. 213; Shaw's High Tartary, pp. 98, 473.)

[On the 11th January, 1895, Dr. Sven Hedin visited one of the chief places where Jade is to
be found. It is to the north-east of Khotan, in the old bed of the Yurun Kash. The bed of the
river is divided into claims like gold-fields; the workmen are Chinese for the greater part,
some few are Musulmans.

Grenard (II. pp. 186-187) says that the finest Jade comes from the high Karákásh (black Jade)
River and Yurungkásh (white Jade); the Jade River is called Su-tásh. At Khotan, Jade is polished
up by sixty or seventy individuals belonging to twenty-five workshops.

"At 18 miles from Su-chau, Kia-yu-kwan, celebrated as one of the gates of China, and as the
fortress guarding the extreme north-west entrance into the empire, is passed." (Colonel M.
S. Bell, Proc. R. G. S. XII. 1890, p. 75.)

According to the Chinese characters, the name of Kia-yü Kwan does not mean "Jade Gate," and
as Mr. Rockhill writes to me, it can only mean something like "barrier of the pleasant Valley."--H.
C.]

NOTE 3.--Possibly this may refer to the custom of temporary marriages which seems to prevail
in most towns of Central Asia which are the halting-places of caravans, and the morals of which
are much on a par with those of seaport towns, from analogous causes. Thus at Meshid, Khanikoff
speaks of the large population of young and pretty women ready, according to the accommodating
rules of Shiah Mahomedanism, to engage in marriages which are perfectly lawful, for a month,
a week, or even twenty-four hours. Kashgar is also noted in the East for its chaukans, young
women with whom the traveller may readily form an alliance for the period of his stay, be it
long or short. (Khan. Mém. p. 98; Russ. in Central Asia, 52; J. A. S. B. XXVI. 262; Burnes,
III. 195; Vigne, II. 201.)

[1] Pein may easily have been miscopied for Pem which is indeed the
    reading of some MSS. Ramusio has Peym.

[2] M. Vivien de St. Martin, in his map of Hiuen Tsang's travels, places
    Pima to the west of Khotan. Though one sees bow the mistake
    originated, there is no real ground for this in either of the versions
    of the Chinese pilgrim's journey. (See Vie et Voyages, p. 288, and
    Mémoires, vol. ii. 242-243.)

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

OF THE PROVINCE OF CHARCHAN.

Charchan is a Province of Great Turkey, lying between north-east and east. The people worship
Mahommet. There are numerous towns and villages, and the chief city of the kingdom bears its
name, Charchan. The Province contains rivers which bring down Jasper and Chalcedony, and these
are carried for sale into Cathay, where they fetch great prices.

Quitting Charchan, you ride some five days through the sands, finding none but bad and bitter
water, and then you come to a place where the water is sweet. And now I will tell you of a
province called Lop, in which there is a city, also called LOP, which you come to at the end
of those five days. It is at the entrance of the great Desert, and it is here that travellers
repose before entering on the Desert.[NOTE 1]

NOTE 1.--Though the Lake of Lob or Lop appears on all our maps, from Chinese authority, the
latter does not seem to have supplied information as to a town so called. We have, however,
indications of the existence of such a place, both mediaeval and recent. The History of Mirza
Haidar, called the Táríkh-i-Rashídí, already referred to, in describing the Great Basin of
Eastern Turkestan, says: "Formerly there were several large cities in this plain; the names
of two have survived--Lob and Kank, but of the rest there is no trace or tradition; all is
buried under the sand." [Forsyth (J. R. G. S. XLVII. 1877, p. 5) says that he thinks that this
Kank is probably the Katak mentioned by Mirza Haidar.--H. C.] In another place the same history
says that a boy heir of the house of Chaghatai, to save him from a usurper, was sent away to
Sárígh Uighúr and Lob-Kank, far in the East. Again, in the short notices of the cities of Turkestan
which Mr. Wathen collected at Bombay from pilgrims of those regions on their way to Mecca,
we find the following: "Lopp.--Lopp is situated at a great distance from Yarkand. The inhabitants
are principally Chinese; but a few Uzbeks reside there. Lopp is remarkable for a salt-water
lake in its vicinity." Johnson, speaking of a road from Tibet into Khotan, says: "This route
... leads not only to Ilchi and Yarkand, but also viâ Lob to the large and important city of
Karashahr." And among the routes attached to Mr. Johnson's original Report, we have:--

"Route No. VII. Kiria (see note 1 to last chapter) to CHACHAN and LOB (from native information)."

This first revealed to me the continued existence of Marco's Charchan; for it was impossible
to doubt that in the CHACHAN and LOB of this Itinerary we had his Charchan and Lop; and his
route to the verge of the Great Desert was thus made clear.

Mr. Johnson's information made the journey from Kiria to Charchan to be 9 marches, estimated
by him to amount to 154 miles, and adding 69 miles from Ilchi to Kiria (which he actually traversed)
we have 13 marches or 223 miles for the distance from Ilchi to Charchan. Mr. Shaw has since
obtained a route between Ilchi and Lob on very good authority. This makes the distance to Charchan,
or Charchand, as it is called, 22 marches, which Mr. Shaw estimates at 293 miles. Both give
6 marches from Charchand to Lob, which is in fair accordance with Polo's 5, and Shaw estimates
the whole distance from Ilchi to Lob at 373, or by another calculation at 384 miles, say roundly
380 miles. This higher estimate is to be preferred to Mr. Johnson's for a reason which will
appear under next chapter.

Mr. Shaw's informant, Rozi of Khotan, who had lived twelve years at Charchand, described the
latter as a small town with a district extending on both sides of a stream which flows to Lob,
and which affords Jade. The people are Musulmans. They grow wheat, Indian corn, pears, and
apples, etc., but no cotton or rice. It stands in a great plain, but the mountains are not
far off. The nature of the products leads Mr. Shaw to think it must stand a good deal higher
than Ilchi (4000), perhaps at about 6000 feet. I may observe that the Chinese hydrography of
the Kashgar Basin, translated by Julien in the N. An. des Voyages for 1846 (vol. iii.), seems
to imply that mountains from the south approach within some 20 miles of the Tarim River, between
the longitude of Shayar and Lake Lop. The people of Lob are Musulman also, but very uncivilised.
The Lake is salt. The hydrography calls it about 200 li (say 66 miles) from E. to W. and half
that from N. to S., and expresses the old belief that it forms the subterranean source of the
Hwang-Ho. Shaw's Itinerary shows "salt pools" at six of the stations between Kiria and Charchand,
so Marco's memory in this also was exact.

Nia, a town two marches from Kiria according to Johnson, or four according to Shaw, is probably
the ancient city of Ni-jang of the ancient Chinese Itineraries, which lay 30 or 40 miles on
the China side of Pima, in the middle of a great marsh, and formed the eastern frontier of
Khotan bordering on the Desert. (J. R. G. S. XXXVII. pp. 13 and 44; also Sir H. Rawlinson in
XLII. p. 503: Erskine's Baber and Humayun, I. 42; Proc. R. G. S. vol. xvi. pp. 244-249; J.
A. S. B. IV. 656; H. de la V. de Khotan, u.s.)

[The Charchan of Marco Polo seems to have been built to the west of the present oasis, a little
south of the road to Kiria, where ruined houses have been found. It must have been destroyed
before the 16th century, since Mirza Haidar does not mention it. It was not anterior to the
7th century, as it did not exist at the time of Hiuen Tsang. (Cf. Grenard, III. p. 146.)

Grenard says (pp. 183-184) that he examined the remains of what is called the old town of Charchan,
traces of the ancient canal, ruins of dwellings deep into the sand, of which the walls built
of large and solid-baked bricks, are pretty well preserved. Save these bricks, "I found hardly
anything, the inhabitants have pillaged everything long ago. I attempted some excavating, which
turned out to be without result, as far as I was concerned; but the superstitious natives declared
that they were the cause of a violent storm which took place soon after. There are similar
ruins in the environs, at Yantak Koudouk, at Tatrang, one day's march to the north, and at
Ouadjchahari at five days to the north-east, which corresponds to the position assigned to
Lop by Marco Polo." (See Grenard's Haute Asie on Nia.)

Palladius is quite mistaken (l.c. p. 3.) in saying that the "Charchan" of Marco Polo is to
be found in the present province of Karashar. (Cf. T. W. Kingsmill's Notes on Marco Polo's
Route from Khoten to China, Chinese Recorder, VII. pp. 338-343; Notes on Doctor Sven Hedin's
Discoveries in the Valley of the Tarim, its Cities and Peoples, China Review, XXIV. No. II.
pp. 59-64.)--H. C.]

CHAPTER XXXIX.

OF THE CITY OF LOP AND THE GREAT DESERT.

Lop is a large town at the edge of the Desert, which is called the Desert of Lop, and is situated
between east and north-east. It belongs to the Great Kaan, and the people worship Mahommet.
Now, such persons as propose to cross the Desert take a week's rest in this town to refresh
themselves and their cattle; and then they make ready for the journey, taking with them a month's
supply for man and beast. On quitting this city they enter the Desert.

The length of this Desert is so great that 'tis said it would take a year and more to ride
from one end of it to the other. And here, where its breadth is least, it takes a month to
cross it. 'Tis all composed of hills and valleys of sand, and not a thing to eat is to be found
on it. But after riding for a day and a night you find fresh water, enough mayhap for some
50 or 100 persons with their beasts, but not for more. And all across the Desert you will find
water in like manner, that is to say, in some 28 places altogether you will find good water,
but in no great quantity; and in four places also you find brackish water.[NOTE 1]

Beasts there are none; for there is nought for them to eat. But there is a marvellous thing
related of this Desert, which is that when travellers are on the move by night, and one of
them chances to lag behind or to fall asleep or the like, when he tries to gain his company
again he will hear spirits talking, and will suppose them to be his comrades. Sometimes the
spirits will call him by name; and thus shall a traveller ofttimes be led astray so that he
never finds his party. And in this way many have perished. [Sometimes the stray travellers
will hear as it were the tramp and hum of a great cavalcade of people away from the real line
of road, and taking this to be their own company they will follow the sound; and when day breaks
they find that a cheat has been put on them and that they are in an ill plight.[NOTE 2]] Even
in the day-time one hears those spirits talking. And sometimes you shall hear the sound of
a variety of musical instruments, and still more commonly the sound of drums. [Hence in making
this journey 'tis customary for travellers to keep close together. All the animals too have
bells at their necks, so that they cannot easily get astray. And at sleeping-time a signal
is put up to show the direction of the next march.]

So thus it is that the Desert is crossed.[NOTE 3]

NOTE 1.--LOP appears to be the Napopo, i.e. Navapa, of Hiuen Tsang, called also the country
of Leulan, in the Desert. (Mém. II. p. 247.) Navapa looks like Sanskrit. If so, this carries
ancient Indian influence to the verge of the great Gobi. [See supra, p. 190.] It is difficult
to reconcile with our maps the statement of a thirty days' journey across the Desert from Lop
to Shachau. Ritter's extracts, indeed, regarding this Desert, show that the constant occurrence
of sandhills and deep drifts (our traveller's "hills and valleys of sand") makes the passage
extremely difficult for carts and cattle. (III. 375.) But I suspect that there is some material
error in the longitude of Lake Lop as represented in our maps, and that it should be placed
something like three degrees more to the westward than we find it (e.g.) in Kiepert's Map of
Asia. By that map Khotan is not far short of 600 miles from the western extremity of Lake Lop.
By Johnson's Itinerary (including his own journey to Kiria) it is only 338 miles from Ilchi
to Lob. Mr. Shaw, as we have seen, gives us a little more, but it is only even then 380. Polo
unfortunately omits his usual estimate for the extent of the "Province of Charchan," so he
affords us no complete datum. But his distance between Charchan and Lob agrees fairly, as we
have seen, with that both of Johnson and of Shaw, and the elbow on the road from Kiria to Charchan
(supra, p. 192) necessitates our still further abridging the longitude between Khotan and Lop.
(See Shaw's remarks in Proc. R. G. S. XVI. 243.)

[This desert was known in China of old by the name of Lew-sha, i.e. "Quicksand," or literally,
"Flowing sands." (Palladius, Jour. N. China B. R. As. Soc. N.S. X. 1875, p. 4.)

A most interesting problem is connected with the situation of Lob-nor which led to some controversy
between Baron von Richthofen and Prjevalsky. The latter placed the lake one degree more to
the south than the Chinese did, and found that its water was sweet. Richthofen agreed with
the Chinese Topographers and wrote in a letter to Sir Henry Yule: "I send you two tracings;
one of them is a true copy of the Chinese map, the other is made from a sketch which I constructed
to-day, and on which I tried to put down the Chinese Topography together with that of Prjevalsky.
It appears evident--(1) That Prjevalsky travelled by the ancient road to a point south of the
true Lop-noor; (2) that long before he reached this point he found the river courses quite
different from what they had been formerly; and (3) that following one of the new rivers which
flows due south by a new road, he reached the two sweet-water lakes, one of which answers to
the ancient Khas-omo. I use the word 'new' merely by way of comparison with the state of things
in Kien-long's time, when the map was made. It appears that the Chinese map shows the Khas
Lake too far north to cover the Kara-Koshun. The bifurcation of the roads south of the lake
nearly resembles that which is marked by Prjevalsky." (Preface of E. D. Morgan's transl. of
From Kulja across the Tian Shan to Lob-nor, by Colonel N. Prjevalsky, London, 1879, p. iv.)
In this same volume Baron von Richthofen's remarks are given (pp. 135-159, with a map, p. 144),
showing comparison between Chinese and Prjevalsky's Geography from tracings by Baron von Richthofen
and (pp. 160-165) a translation of Prjevalsky's replies to the Baron's criticisms.

Now the Swedish traveller, Dr. Sven Hedin, claims to have settled this knotty point. Going
from Korla, south-west of Kara-shahr, by a road at the foot of the Kurugh-tagh and between
these mountains and the Koncheh Daria, he discovered the ruins of two fortresses, and a series
of milestones (potaïs). These tall pyramids of clay and wood, indicating distances in lis show
the existence at an ancient period of a road with a large traffic between Korla and an unknown
place to the south-east, probably on the shores of the Chinese Lob-nor. Prjevalsky, who passed
between the Lower Tarim and the Koncheh Daria, could not see a lake or the remains of a lake
to the east of this river. The Koncheh Daria expands into a marshy basin, the Malta Kul, from
which it divides into two branches, the Kuntiekkich Tarim (East River) and the Ilek (river)
to the E.S.E. Dr. Sven Hedin, after following the course of the Ilek for three days (4th April,
1896) found a large sheet of water in the valley at the very place marked by the Chinese Topographers
and Richthofen for the Lob-nor. This mass of water is divided up by the natives into Avullu
Kul, Kara Kul, Tayek Kul, and Arka Kul, which are actually almost filled up with reeds. Dr.
Sven Hedin afterwards visited the Lob-nor of Prjevalsky, and reached its western extremity,
the Kara-buran (black storm) on the 17th April. In 1885, Prjevalsky had found the Lob-nor an
immense lake; four years later Prince Henri d'Orleans saw it greatly reduced in size, and Dr.
Sven Hedin discovered but pools of water. In the meantime, since 1885, the northern (Chinese)
Lob-nor has gradually filled up, so the lake is somewhat vagrant. Dr. Sven Hedin says that
from his observations he can assert that Prjevalsky's lake is of recent formation.

So Marco Polo's Lob-nor should be the northern or Chinese lake.

Another proof of this given by Dr. Sven Hedin is that the Chinese give the name of Lob to the
region between Arghan and Tikkenlik, unknown in the country of the southern lake. The existence
of two lakes shows what a quantity of water from the Thian Shan, the Eastern Pamir, and Northern
Tibet flows into the basin of the Tarim. The Russian Lieutenant K. P. Kozlov has tried since
to prove that the Chinese Lob-nor is the Kara- Koshun (Black district), which is a second lake
formed by the Tarim, which discharges into and issues from the lake Kara-buran. Kozlov's arguments
are published in the Isvestia of the Russian Geographical Society, and in a separate pamphlet.
The Geog. Jour. (June, 1898, pp. 652-658) contains The Lob-nor Controversy, a full statement
of the case, summarising Kozlov's pamphlet. Among the documents relating to the controversy,
Kozlov "quotes passages from the Chinese work Si-yui-shui- dao-tsi, published in 1823, relative
to the region, and gives a reduced copy of the Chinese Map published by Dr. Georg Wegener in
1863, upon which map Richthofen and Sven Hedin based their arguments." Kozlov's final conclusions
(Geog. Jour. l.c. pp. 657-658) are the following: "The Koncheh-daria, since very remote times
till the present day, has moved a long way. The spot Gherelgan may be taken as a spot of relative
permanence of its bed, while the basis of its delta is a line traced from the farthest northern
border of the area of salt clays surrounding the Lob-nor to the Tarim. At a later period the
Koncheh-daria mostly influenced the lower Tarim, and each time a change occurred in the latter's
discharge, the Koncheh took a more westward course, to the detriment of its old eastern branch
(Ilek). Always following the gradually receding humidity, the vegetable life changed too, while
moving sands were taking its place, conquering more and more ground for the desert, and marking
their conquest by remains of old shore-lines....

"The facts noticed by Sven Hedin have thus another meaning--the desert to the east of the lakes,
which he discovered, was formed, not by Lob-nor, which is situated 1° southwards, but by the
Koncheh-daria, in its unremitted deflection to the west. The old bed Ilek, lake-shaped in places,
and having a belt of salt lagoons and swamps along its eastern shores, represents remains of
waters belonging, not to Lob-nor, but to the shifting river which has abandoned this old bed.

"These facts and explanations refute the second point of the arguments which were brought forward
by Sven Hedin in favour of his hypothesis, asserting the existence of some other Lob-nor.

"I accept the third point of his objections, namely, that the grandfathers of the present inhabitants
of the Lob-nor lived by a lake whose position was more to the north of Lob-nor; that was mentioned
already by Pievtsov, and the lake was Uchu-Kul.

"Why Marco Polo never mentioned the Lob-nor, I leave to more competent persons to decide.

"The only inference which I can make from the preceding account is that the Kara-Koshun-Kul
is not only the Lob-nor of my lamented teacher, N. M. Prjevalsky, but also the ancient, the
historical, and the true Lob-nor of the Chinese geographers. So it was during the last thousand
years, and so will it remain, if 'the river of time' in its running has not effaced it from
the face of the Earth." From Charchan, he followed, I believe, neither Prjevalsky's nor Pievtsov's
route, but the old route from Khotan to Si-ngan fu, in the old bed of the Charchan daria, above
and almost parallel to the new bed, to the Tarim,--then between Sven Hedin's and Prjevalsky's
lakes, and across the desert to Shachau to join the ancient Chinese road of the Han Dynasty,
partly explored by M. Bonin from Shachau.

There is no doubt as to the discovery of Prjevalsky's Lob-nor, but this does not appear to
be the old Chinese Lob-nor; in fact, there may have been several lakes co-existent; probably
there was one to the east of the mass of water described by Dr. Sven Hedin, near the old route
from Korla to Shachau; there is no fixity in these waterspreads and the soil of this part of
Asia, and in the course of a few years some discrepancies will naturally arise between the
observations of different travellers. But as I think that Marco Polo did not see one of the
Lob-nor, but travelled between them, there is no necessity to enlarge on this question, fully
treated of in this note.

See besides the works mentioned above: Nord--Tibet und Lob-nur Gebiet... herausg. von Dr. G.
Wegener. Berlin, 1893. (Sep. abd. Zeit. Ges. f. Erdk.)--Die Geog. wiss. Ergebnisse meiner Reisen
in Zentralasien, 1894-1897, von Dr. Sven Hedin, Gotha, J. Perthes, 1900.

Bonvalot and Prince Henri d'Orléans (De Paris au Tonkin, à travers le Tibet inconnu, Paris,
1892) followed this Itinerary: Semipalatinsk, Kulja, Korla, Lob-nor, Charkalyk, Altyn Tagh,
almost a straight line to Tengri Nor, then to Batang, Ta Tsien lu, Ning-yuan, Yun-nan-fu, Mong-tsu,
and Tung-King.

Bonvalot (28th October, 1889) describes Lob in this manner: "The village of Lob is situated
at some distance from [the Charchan daria]; its inhabitants come to see us; they are miserable,
hungry, étiques; they offer us for sale smoked fish, duck taken with lacet. Some small presents
soon make friends of them. They apprize us that news has spread that Pievtsov, the Russian
traveller, will soon arrive" (l.c. p. 75). From Charkalyk, Prince Henri d'Orléans and Father
Dedeken visited Lob-nor (l.c. p. 77 et seq.), but it was almost dry; the water had receded
since Prjevalsky's visit, thirteen years before. The Prince says the Lob-nor he saw was not
Prjevalsky's, nor was the latter's lake the mass of water on Chinese maps; an old sorceress
gave confirmation of the fact to the travellers. According to a tradition known from one generation
to another, there was at this place a large inland sea without reeds, and the elders had seen
in their youth large ponds; they say that the earth impregnated with saltpetre absorbs the
water. The Prince says, according to tradition, Lob is a local name meaning "wild animals,"
and it was given to the country at the time it was crossed by Kalmuk caravans; they added to
the name Lob the Mongol word Nor (Great Lake). The travellers (p. 109) note that in fact the
name Lob-nor does not apply to a Lake, but to the whole marshy part of the country watered
by the Tarim, from the village of Lob to end of the river.

The Pievtsov expedition "visited the Lob-nor (2650 feet) and the Tarim, whose proper name is
Yarkend-daria (tarim means 'a tilled field' in Kashgarian). The lake is rapidly drying up,
and a very old man, 110 years old, whom Pievtsov spoke to (his son, 52 years old, was the only
one who could understand the old man), said that he would not have recognized the land if he
had been absent all this time. Ninety years ago there was only a narrow strip of rushes in
the south-west part of the lake, and the Yarkend-daria entered it 2-1/2 miles to the west of
its present mouth, where now stands the village of Abdal. The lake was then much deeper, and
several villages, now abandoned, stood on its shores. There was also much more fish, and otters,
which used to live there, but have long since disappeared. As to the Yarkend-daria, tradition
says that two hundred years ago it used to enter another smaller lake, Uchukul, which was connected
by a channel with the Lob-nor. This old bed, named Shirga-chapkan, can still be traced by the
trees which grew along it. The greater previous extension of the Lob-nor is also confirmed
by the freshwater molluscs (Limnaea uricularia, var. ventricosa, L. stagnalis, L. peregra,
and Planorbis sibiricus), which are found at a distance from its present banks. Another lake,
400 miles in circumference, Kara-boyön (black isthmus), lies, as is known, 27 miles to the
south-west of Lob- nor. To the east of the lake, a salt desert stretches for a seven days'
march, and further on begin the Kum-tagh sands, where wild camels live." (Geog. Jour. IX. 1897,
p. 552.)

Grenard (III. pp. 194-195) discusses the Lob-nor question and the formation of four new lakes
by the Koncheh-daria called by the natives beginning at the north; Kara Kul, Tayek Kul, Sugut
Kul, Tokum Kul. He does not accept Baron v. Richthofen's theory, and believes that the old
Lob is the lake seen by Prjevalsky.

He says (p. 149): "Lop must be looked for on the actual road from Charchan to Charkalyk. Ouash
Shahri, five days from Charchan, and where small ruins are to be found, corresponds well to
the position of Lop according to Marco Polo, a few degrees of the compass near. But the stream
which passes at this spot could never be important enough for the wants of a considerable centre
of habitation and the ruins of Ouash Shahri are more of a hamlet than of a town. Moreover,
Lop was certainly the meeting point of the roads of Kashgar, Urumtsi, Shachau, L'Hasa, and
Khotan, and it is to this fact that this town, situated in a very poor country, owed its relative
importance. Now, it is impossible that these roads crossed at Ouash Shahri. I believe that
Lop was built on the site of Charkalyk itself. The Venetian traveller gives five days' journey
between Charchan and Lop, whilst Charkalyk is really seven days from Charchan; but the objection
does not appear sufficient to me: Marco Polo may well have made a mistake of two days." (III.
pp. 149-150.)

The Chinese Governor of Urumtsi found some years ago to the north-west of the Lob-nor, on the
banks of the Tarim, and within five days of Charkalyk, a town bearing the same name, though
not on the same site as the Lop of Marco Polo.--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--"The waste and desert places of the Earth are, so to speak, the characters which sin
has visibly impressed on the outward creation; its signs and symbols there.... Out of a true
feeling of this, men have ever conceived of the Wilderness as the haunt of evil spirits. In
the old Persian religion Ahriman and his evil Spirits inhabit the steppes and wastes of Turan,
to the north of the happy Iran, which stands under the dominion of Ormuzd; exactly as with
the Egyptians, the evil Typhon is the Lord of the Libyan sand-wastes, and Osiris of the fertile
Egypt." (Archbp. Trench, Studies in the Gospels, p. 7.) Terror, and the seeming absence of
a beneficent Providence, are suggestions of the Desert which must have led men to associate
it with evil spirits, rather than the figure with which this passage begins; no spontaneous
conception surely, however appropriate as a moral image.

"According to the belief of the nations of Central Asia," says I. J. Schmidt, "the earth and
its interior, as well as the encompassing atmosphere, are filled with Spiritual Beings, which
exercise an influence, partly beneficent, partly malignant, on the whole of organic and inorganic
nature.... Especially are Deserts and other wild or uninhabited tracts, or regions in which
the influences of nature are displayed on a gigantic and terrible scale, regarded as the chief
abode or rendezvous of evil Spirits.... And hence the steppes of Turan, and in particular the
great sandy Desert of Gobi have been looked on as the dwelling-place of malignant beings, from
days of hoar antiquity."

The Chinese historian Ma Twan-lin informs us that there were two roads from China into the
Uighúr country (towards Karashahr). The longest but easiest road was by Kamul. The other was
much shorter, and apparently corresponded, as far as Lop, to that described in this chapter.
"By this you have to cross a plain of sand, extending for more than 100 leagues. 'Tis for these
reasons that travellers and merchants often prefer the much longer route by Kamul." (Visdelou,
p. 139.)

"In the Desert" (this same desert), says Fa-hian, "there are a great many evil demons; there
are also sirocco winds, which kill all who encounter them. There are no birds or beasts to
be seen; but so far as the eye can reach, the route is marked out by the bleached bones of
men who have perished in the attempt to cross."

["The Lew-sha was the subject of various most exaggerated stories. We find more trustworthy
accounts of it in the Chow shu; thus it is mentioned in that history, that there sometimes
arises in this desert a 'burning wind,' pernicious to men and cattle; in such cases the old
camels of the caravan, having a presentiment of its approach, flock shrieking to one place,
lie down on the ground and hide their heads in the sand. On this signal, the travellers also
lie down, close nose and mouth, and remain in this position until the hurricane abates. Unless
these precautions are taken, men and beasts inevitably perish." (Palladius, l.c. p. 4.)

A friend writes to me that he thinks that the accounts of strange noises in the desert would
find a remarkable corroboration in the narratives of travellers through the central desert
of Australia. They conjecture that they are caused by the sudden falling of cliffs of sand
as the temperature changes at night time.--H. C.]

Hiuen Tsang, in his passage of the Desert, both outward and homeward, speaks of visual illusions;
such as visions of troops marching and halting with gleaming arms and waving banners, constantly
shifting, vanishing, and reappearing, "imagery created by demons." A voice behind him calls,
"Fear not! fear not!" Troubled by these fantasies on one occasion, he prays to Kwan-yin (a
Buddhist divinity); still he could not entirely get rid of them; but as soon as he had pronounced
a few words from the Prajna (a holy book), they vanished in the twinkling of an eye.

These Goblins are not peculiar to the Gobi, though that appears to be their most favoured haunt.
The awe of the vast and solitary Desert raises them in all similar localities. Pliny speaks
of the phantoms that appear and vanish in the deserts of Africa; Aethicus, the early Christian
cosmographer, speaks, though incredulous, of the stories that were told of the voices of singers
and revellers in the desert; Mas'údi tells of the Ghúls, which in the deserts appear to travellers
by night and in lonely hours; the traveller, taking them for comrades, follows and is led astray.
But the wise revile them and the Ghúls vanish. Thus also Apollonius of Tyana and his companions,
in a desert near the Indus by moonlight, see an Empusa or Ghúl taking many forms. They revile
it, and it goes off uttering shrill cries. Mas'údi also speaks of the mysterious voices heard
by lone wayfarers in the Desert, and he gives a rational explanation of them. Ibn Batuta relates
a like legend of the Western Sahara: "If the messenger be solitary, the demons sport with him
and fascinate him, so that he strays from his course and perishes." The Afghan and Persian
wildernesses also have their Ghúl-i-Beában or Goblin of the Waste, a gigantic and fearful spectre
which devours travellers; and even the Gael of the West Highlands have the Direach Ghlinn Eitidh,
the Desert Creature of Glen Eiti, which, one-handed, one-eyed, one-legged, seems exactly to
answer to the Arabian Nesnás or Empusa. Nicolò Conti in the Chaldaean desert is aroused at
midnight by a great noise, and sees a vast multitude pass by. The merchants tell him that these
are demons who are in the habit of traversing the deserts. (Schmidt's San. Setzen, p. 352;
V. et V. de H. T. 23, 28, 289; Pliny, VII. 2; Philostratus, Bk. II. ch. iv.; Prairies d'Or,
III. 315, 324; Beale's Fahian; Campbell's Popular Tales of the W. Highlands, IV. 326; I. B.
IV. 382; Elphinstone, I. 291; Chodzko's Pop. Poetry of Persia, p. 48; Conti, p. 4; Forsyth,
J. R. G. S. XLVII. 1877, p. 4.)

The sound of musical instruments, chiefly of drums, is a phenomenon of another class, and is
really produced in certain situations among sandhills when the sand is disturbed. [See supra.]
A very striking account of a phenomenon of this kind regarded as supernatural is given by Friar
Odoric, whose experience I fancy I have traced to the Reg Ruwán or "Flowing Sand" north of
Kabul. Besides this celebrated example, which has been described also by the Emperor Baber,
I have noted that equally well-known one of the Jibal Nakús, or "Hill of the Bell," in the
Sinai Desert; Wadi Hamade, in the vicinity of the same Desert; the Jibal-ul-Thabúl, or "Hill
of the Drums," between Medina and Mecca; one on the Island of Eigg, in the Hebrides, discovered
by Hugh Miller; one among the Medanos or Sandhills of Arequipa, described to me by Mr. C. Markham;
the Bramador or rumbling mountain of Tarapaca; one in hills between the Ulba and the Irtish,
in the vicinity of the Altai, called the Almanac Hills, because the sounds are supposed to
prognosticate weather-changes; and a remarkable example near Kolberg on the shore of Pomerania.
A Chinese narrative of the 10th century mentions the phenomenon as known near Kwachau, on the
eastern border of the Lop Desert, under the name of the "Singing Sands"; and Sir F. Goldsmid
has recently made us acquainted with a second Reg Ruwán, on a hill near the Perso-Afghan frontier,
a little to the north of Sístán. The place is frequented in pilgrimage. (See Cathay, pp. ccxliv.
156, 398; Ritter, II. 204; Aus der Natur, Leipzig, No. 47 [of 1868], p. 752; Rémusat, H. de
Khotan, p. 74; Proc. R. G. S. XVII. 91.)

NOTE 3.--[We learn from Joseph Martin, quoted by Grenard, p. 170 (who met this unfortunate
French traveller at Khotan, on his way from Peking to Marghelan, where he died), that from
Shachau to Abdal, on the Lob-nor, there are twelve days of desert, sandy only during the first
two days, stony afterwards. Occasionally a little grass is to be found for the camels; water
is to be found everywhere. M. Bonin went from Shachau to the north-west towards the Kara-nor,
then to the west, but lack of water compelled him to go back to Shachau. Along this road, every
five lis, are to be found towers built with clay, and about 30 feet high, abandoned by the
Chinese, who do not seem to have kept a remembrance of them in the country; this route seems
to be a continuation of the Kan Suh Imperial highway. A wall now destroyed connected these
towers together. "There is no doubt," writes M. Bonin, "that all these remains are those of
the great route, vainly sought after till now, which, under the Han Dynasty, ran to China through
Bactria. Pamir, Eastern Turkestan, the Desert of Gobi, and Kan Suh: it is in part the route
followed by Marco Polo, when he went from Charchan to Shachau, by the city of Lob." The route
of the Han has been also looked for, more to the south, and it was believed that it was the
same as that of the Astyn Tagh, followed by Mr. Littledale in 1893, who travelled one month
from Abdal (Lob-nor) to Shachau; M. Bonin, who explored also this route, and was twenty-three
days from Shachau to Lob-nor, says it could not be a commercial road. Dr. Sven Hedin saw four
or five towers eastward of the junction of the Tarim and the Koncheh-daria; it may possibly
have been another part of the road seen by M. Bonin. (See La Géographie, 15th March, 1901,
p. 173.)--H. C.]

CHAPTER XL.

CONCERNING THE GREAT PROVINCE OF TANGUT.

After you have travelled thirty days through the Desert, as I have described, you come to a
city called SACHIU, lying between north-east and east; it belongs to the Great Kaan, and is
in a province called TANGUT.[NOTE 1] The people are for the most part Idolaters, but there
are also some Nestorian Christians and some Saracens. For example, such as have children will
feed up a sheep in honour of the idol, and at the New Year, or on the day of the Idol's Feast,
they will take their children and the sheep along with them into the presence of the idol with
great ceremony. Then they will have the sheep slaughtered and cooked, and again present it
before the idol with like reverence, and leave it there before him, whilst they are reciting
the offices of their worship and their prayers for the idol's blessing on their children. And,
if you will believe them, the idol feeds on the meat that is set before it! After these ceremonies
they take up the flesh and carry it home, and call together all their kindred to eat it with
them in great festivity [the idol-priests receiving for their portion the head, feet, entrails,
and skin, with some part of the meat]. After they have eaten, they collect the bones that are
left and store them carefully in a hutch.[NOTE 3]

And you must know that all the Idolaters in the world burn their dead. And when they are going
to carry a body to the burning, the kinsfolk build a wooden house on the way to the spot, and
drape it with cloths of silk and gold. When the body is going past this building they call
a halt and set before it wine and meat and other eatables; and this they do with the assurance
that the defunct will be received with the like attentions in the other world. All the minstrelsy
in the town goes playing before the body; and when it reaches the burning-place the kinsfolk
are prepared with figures cut out of parchment and paper in the shape of men and horses and
camels, and also with round pieces of paper like gold coins, and all these they burn along
with the corpse. For they say that in the other world the defunct will be provided with slaves
and cattle and money, just in proportion to the amount of such pieces of paper that has been
burnt along with him.[NOTE 4]

But they never burn their dead until they have [sent for the astrologers, and told them the
year, the day, and the hour of the deceased person's birth, and when the astrologers have ascertained
under what constellation, planet, and sign he was born, they declare the day on which, by the
rules of their art, he ought to be burnt]. And till that day arrive they keep the body, so
that 'tis sometimes a matter of six months, more or less, before it comes to be burnt.[NOTE 5]

Now the way they keep the body in the house is this: They make a coffin first of a good span
in thickness, very carefully joined and daintily painted. This they fill up with camphor and
spices, to keep off corruption [stopping the joints with pitch and lime], and then they cover
it with a fine cloth. Every day as long as the body is kept, they set a table before the dead
covered with food; and they will have it that the soul comes and eats and drinks: wherefore
they leave the food there as long as would be necessary in order that one should partake. Thus
they do daily. And worse still! Sometimes those soothsayers shall tell them that 'tis not good
luck to carry out the corpse by the door, so they have to break a hole in the wall, and to
draw it out that way when it is taken to the burning.[NOTE 6] And these, I assure you, are
the practices of all the Idolaters of those countries.

However, we will quit this subject, and I will tell you of another city which lies towards
the north-west at the extremity of the desert.

NOTE 1.--[The Natives of this country were called by the Chinese T'ang-hiang, and by the Mongols
T'angu or T'ang-wu, and with the plural suffix Tangut. The kingdom of Tangut, or in Chinese,
Si Hia (Western Hia), or Ho si (West of the Yellow River), was declared independent in 982
by Li Chi Ch'ien, who had the dynastic title or Miao Hao of Tai Tsu. "The rulers of Tangut,"
says Dr. Bushell, "were scions of the Toba race, who reigned over North China as the Wei Dynasty
(A.D. 386- 557), as well as in some of the minor dynasties which succeeded. Claiming descent
from the ancient Chinese Hsia Dynasty of the second millennium B.C., they adopted the title
of Ta Hsia ('Great Hsia'), and the dynasty is generally called by the Chinese Hsi Hsia, or
Western Hsia." This is a list of the Tangut sovereigns, with the date of their accession to
the throne: Tai Tsu (982), Tai Tsung (1002), Ching Tsung (1032), Yi Tsung (1049), Hui Tsung
(1068), Ch'ung Tsung (1087), Jen Tsung (1140), Huan Tsung (1194), Hsiang Tsung (1206), Shên
Tsung (1213), Hien Tsung (1223), Mo Chu (1227). In fact, the real founder of the Dynasty was
Li Yuan-hao, who conquered in 1031, the cities of Kanchau and Suhchau from the Uighúr Turks,
declaring himself independent in 1032, and who adopted in 1036 a special script of which we
spoke when mentioning the archway at Kiuyung Kwan. His capital was Hia chau, now Ning hia,
on the Yellow River. Chinghiz invaded Tangut three times, in 1206, 1217, and at last in 1225;
the final struggle took place the following year, when Kanchau, Liangchau, and Suhchau fell
into the hands of the Mongols. After the death of Chinghiz (1227), the last ruler of Tangut,
Li H'ien, who surrendered the same year to Okkodaï, son of the conqueror, was killed. The dominions
of Tangut in the middle of the 11th century, according to the Si Hia Chi Shih Pên Mo, quoted
by Dr. Bushell, "were bounded, according to the map, by the Sung Empire on the south and east,
by the Liao (Khitan) on the north-east, the Tartars (Tata) on the north, the Uighúr Turks (Hui-hu)
on the west, and the Tibetans on the south-west. The Alashan Mountains stretch along the northern
frontier, and the western extends to the Jade Gate (Yü Mên Kwan) on the border of the Desert
of Gobi." Under the Mongol Dynasty, Kan Suh was the official name of one of the twelve provinces
of the Empire, and the popular name was Tangut.

(Dr. S. W. Bushell: Inscriptions in the Juchen and Allied Scripts and The Hsi Hsia Dynasty
of Tangut. See above, p. 29.)

"The word Tangutan applied by the Chinese and by Colonel Prjevalsky to a Tibetan-speaking people
around the Koko-nor has been explained to me in a variety of ways by native Tangutans. A very
learned lama from the Gserdkog monastery, south-east of the Koko-nor, told me that Tangutan,
Amdoans, and Sifan were interchangeable terms, but I fear his geographical knowledge was a
little vague. The following explanation of the term Tangut is taken from the Hsi-tsang-fu.
'The Tangutans are descendants of the Tang-tu-chüeh. The origin of this name is as follows:
In early days, the Tangutans lived in the Central Asian Chin-shan, where they were workers
of iron. They made a model of the Chin-shan, which, in shape, resembled an iron helmet. Now,
in their language, "iron helmet" is Tang-küeh, hence the name of the country. To the present
day, the Tangutans of the Koko-nor wear a hat shaped like a pot, high crowned and narrow, rimmed
with red fringe sewn on it, so that it looks like an iron helmet, and this is a proof of [the
accuracy of the derivation].' Although the proof is not very satisfactory, it is as good as
we are often offered by authors with greater pretension to learning.

"If I remember rightly, Prjevalsky derives the name from two words meaning 'black tents.'"
(W. W. Rockhill, China Br. R. As. Soc., XX. pp. 278-279.)

"Chinese authorities tell us that the name [Tangut] was originally borne by a people living
in the Altaï', and that the word is Turkish.... The population of Tangut was a mixture of Tibetans,
Turks, Uighúrs, Tukuhuns, Chinese, etc." (Rockhill, Rubruck, p. 150, note.--H. C.)]

Sachiu is SHACHAU, "Sand-district," an outpost of China Proper, at the eastern verge of the
worst part of the Sandy Desert. It is recorded to have been fortified in the 1st century as
a barrier against the Hiongnu.

[The name of Shachau dates from A.D. 622, when it was founded by the first emperor of the T'ang
Dynasty. Formerly, Shachau was one of the Chinese colonies established by the Han, at the expense
of the Hiongnu; it was called T'ung hoang (B.C. 111), a name still given to Shachau; the other
colonies were Kiu-kaan (Suhchau, B.C. 121) and Chang-yé (Kanchau, B.C. 111). (See Bretschneider,
Med. Res. II. 18.)

"Sha-chow, the present Tun-hwang-hien (a few li east of the ancient town).... In 1820, or about
that time, an attempt was made to re-establish the ancient direct way between Sha-chow and
Khotan. With this object in view, an exploring party of ten men was sent from Khotan towards
Sha-chow; this party wandered in the desert over a month, and found neither dwellings nor roads,
but pastures and water everywhere. M. Polo omits to mention a remarkable place at Sha-chow,
a sandy hillock (a short distance south of this town) known under the name of Ming-sha shan--the
'rumbling sandhill.' The sand, in rolling down the hill, produces a particular sound, similar
to that of distant thunder. In M. Polo's time (1292), Khubilaï removed the inhabitants of Sha-chow
to the interior of China; fearing, probably, the aggression of the seditious princes; and his
successor, in 1303, placed there a garrison of ten thousand men." (Palladius, l.c. p. 5.)

"Sha-chau is one of the best oases of Central Asia. It is situated at the foot of the Nan-shan
range, at a height of 3700 feet above the sea, and occupies an area of about 200 square miles,
the whole of which is thickly inhabited by Chinese. Sha-chau is interesting as the meeting-place
of three expeditions started independently from Russia, India, and China. Just two months before
Prjevalsky reached this town, it was visited by Count Szechényi [April, 1879], and eighteen
months afterwards Pundit A-k, whose report of it agrees fairly well with that of our traveller,
also stayed here. Both Prejevalsky and Szechényi remark on some curious caves in a valley near
Sha-chau containing Buddhistic clay idols.[1] These caves were in Marco Polo's time the resort
of numerous worshippers, and are said to date back to the Han Dynasty." (Prejevalsky's Journeys
... by E. Delmar Morgan, Proc. R. G. S. IX. 1887, pp. 217-218.)--H. C.]

(Ritter, II. 205; Neumann, p. 616; Cathay, 269, 274; Erdmann, 155; Erman, II. 267; Mag. Asiat.
II. 213.)

NOTE 2.--By Idolaters, Polo here means Buddhists, as generally. We do not know whether the
Buddhism here was a recent introduction from Tibet, or a relic of the old Buddhism of Khotan
and other Central Asian kingdoms, but most probably it was the former, and the "peculiar language"
ascribed to them may have been, as Neumann supposes, Tibetan. This language in modern Mongolia
answers to the Latin of the Mass Book, indeed with a curious exactness, for in both cases the
holy tongue is not that of the original propagators of the respective religions, but that of
the hierarchy which has assumed their government. In the Lamaitic convents of China and Manchuria
also the Tibetan only is used in worship, except at one privileged temple at Peking. (Koeppen,
II. 288.) The language intended by Polo may, however, have been a Chinese dialect. (See notes
1 and 4.) The Nestorians must have been tolerably numerous in Tangut, for it formed a metropolitan
province of their Church.

NOTE 3.--A practice resembling this is mentioned by Pallas as existing among the Buddhist Kalmaks,
a relic of their old Shaman superstitions, which the Lamas profess to decry, but sometimes
take part in. "Rich Kalmaks select from their flock a ram for dedication, which gets the name
of Tengri Tockho, 'Heaven's Ram.' It must be a white one with a yellow head. He must never
be shorn or sold, but when he gets old, and the owner chooses to dedicate a fresh one, then
the old one must be sacrificed. This is usually done in autumn, when the sheep are fattest,
and the neighbours are called together to eat the sacrifice. A fortunate day is selected, and
the ram is slaughtered amid the cries of the sorcerer directed towards the sunrise, and the
diligent sprinkling of milk for the benefit of the Spirits of the Air. The flesh is eaten,
but the skeleton with a part of the fat is burnt on a turf altar erected on four pillars of
an ell and a half high, and the skin, with the head and feet, is then hung up in the way practised
by the Buraets." (Sammlungen, II. 346.)

NOTE 4.--Several of the customs of Tangut mentioned in this chapter are essentially Chinese,
and are perhaps introduced here because it was on entering Tangut that the traveller first
came in contact with Chinese peculiarities. This is true of the manner of forming coffins,
and keeping them with the body in the house, serving food before the coffin whilst it is so
kept, the burning of paper and papier-maché figures of slaves, horses, etc., at the tomb. Chinese
settlers were very numerous at Shachau and the neighbouring Kwachau, even in the 10th century.
(Ritter, II. 213.) ["Keeping a body unburied for a considerable time is called khng koan, 'to
conceal or store away a coffin,' or thîng koan, 'to detain a coffin.' It is, of course, a matter
of necessity in such cases to have the cracks and fissures, and especially the seam where the
case and the lid join, hermetically caulked. This is done by means of a mixture of chunam and
oil. The seams, sometimes even the whole coffin, are pasted over with linen, and finally everything
is varnished black, or, in case of a mandarin of rank, red. In process of time, the varnishing
is repeated as many times as the family think desirable or necessary. And in order to protect
the coffin still better against dust and moisture, it is generally covered with sheets of oiled
paper, over which comes a white pall." (De Groot, I. 106.)--H. C.] Even as regards the South
of China many of the circumstances mentioned here are strictly applicable, as may be seen in
Doolittle's Social Life of the Chinese. (See, for example, p. 135; also Astley, IV. 93-95,
or Marsden's quotations from Duhalde.) The custom of burning the dead has been for several
centuries disused in China, but we shall see hereafter that Polo represents it as general in
his time. On the custom of burning gilt paper in the form of gold coin, as well as of paper
clothing, paper houses, furniture, slaves, etc., see also Medhurst, p. 213, and Kidd, 177-178.
No one who has read Père Huc will forget his ludicrous account of the Lama's charitable distribution
of paper horses for the good of disabled travellers. The manufacture of mock money is a large
business in Chinese cities. In Fuchau there are more than thirty large establishments where
it is kept for sale. (Doolittle, 541.) [The Chinese believe that sheets of paper, partly tinned
over on one side, are, "according to the prevailing conviction, turned by the process of fire
into real silver currency available in the world of darkness, and sent there through the smoke
to the soul; they are called gûn-tsoá, 'silver paper.' Most families prefer to previously fold
every sheet in the shape of a hollow ingot, a 'silver ingot,' gûn-khò as they call it. This
requires a great amount of labour and time, but increases the value of the treasure immensely."
(De Groot, I. 25.) "Presenting paper money when paying a visit of condolence is a custom firmly
established, and accordingly complied with by everybody with great strictness.... The paper
is designed for the equipment of the coffin, and, accordingly, always denoted by the term koan-thaô-tsoá,
'coffin paper.' But as the receptacle of the dead is, of course, not spacious enough to hold
the whole mass offered by so many friends, it is regularly burned by lots by the side of the
corpse, the ashes being carefully collected to be afterwards wrapped in paper and placed in
the coffin, or at the side of the coffin, in the tomb." (De Groot, I. 31-32.)--H. C.] There
can be little doubt that these latter customs are symbols of the ancient sacrifices of human
beings and valuable property on such occasions; so Manetho states that the Egyptians in days
of yore used human sacrifices, but a certain King Amosis abolished them and substituted images
of wax. Even when the present Manchu Dynasty first occupied the throne of China, they still
retained the practice of human sacrifice. At the death of Kanghi's mother, however, in 1718,
when four young girls offered themselves for sacrifice on the tomb of their mistress, the emperor
would not allow it, and prohibited for the future the sacrifice of life or the destruction
of valuables on such occasions. (Deguignes, Voy. I. 304.)

NOTE 5.--Even among the Tibetans and Mongols burning is only one of the modes of disposing
of the dead. "They sometimes bury their dead: often they leave them exposed in their coffins,
or cover them with stones, paying regard to the sign under which the deceased was born, his
age, the day and hour of his death, which determine the mode in which he is to be interred
(or otherwise disposed of). For this purpose they consult some books which are explained to
them by the Lamas." (Timk. II. 312.) The extraordinary and complex absurdities of the books
in question are given in detail by Pallas, and curiously illustrate the paragraph in the text.
(See Sammlungen, II. 254 seqq.) ["The first seven days, including that on which the demise
has taken place, are generally deemed to be lucky for the burial, especially the odd ones.
But when they have elapsed, it becomes requisite to apply to a day-professor.... The popular
almanac which chiefly wields sway in Amoy and the surrounding country, regularly stigmatises
a certain number of days as tîng-sng jít: 'days of reduplication of death,' because encoffining
or burying a dead person on such a day will entail another loss in the family shortly afterwards."
(De Groot, I. 103, 99-100.)--H. C.]

NOTE 6.--The Chinese have also, according to Duhalde, a custom of making a new opening in the
wall of a house by which to carry out the dead; and in their prisons a special hole in the
wall is provided for this office. This same custom exists among the Esquimaux, as well as,
according to Sonnerat, in Southern India, and it used to exist in certain parts both of Holland
and of Central Italy. In the "clean village of Broek," near Amsterdam, those special doors
may still be seen. And in certain towns of Umbria, such as Perugia, Assisi, and Gubbio, this
opening was common, elevated some feet above the ground, and known as the "Door of the Dead."

I find in a list, printed by Liebrecht, of popular French superstitions, amounting to 479 in
number, condemned by Maupas du Tour, Bishop of Evreux in 1664, the following: "When a woman
lies in of a dead child, it must not be taken out by the door of the chamber but by the window,
for if it were taken out by the door the woman would never lie in of any but dead children."
The Samoyedes have the superstition mentioned in the text, and act exactly as Polo describes.
(John Crawfurd, Hist. of the Indian Archipelago, II. p. 245.)--H. C.]

And the Rev. Mr. Jaeschke writes to me from Lahaul, in British Tibet: "Our Lama (from Central
Tibet) tells us that the owner of a house and the members of his family when they die are carried
through the house-door; but if another person dies in the house his body is removed by some
other aperture, such as a window, or the smokehole in the roof, or a hole in the wall dug expressly
for the purpose. Or a wooden frame is made, fitting into the doorway, and the body is then
carried through; it being considered that by this contrivance the evil consequences are escaped
that might ensue, were it carried through the ordinary, and, so to say, undisguised house-door!
Here, in Lahaul and the neighbouring countries, we have not heard of such a custom."

(Duhalde, quoted by Marsden; Semedo, p. 175; Mr. Sala in N. and Q., 2nd S. XI. 322; Lubbock,
p. 500; Sonnerat I. 86; Liebrecht's Gervasius of Tilbury, Hanover, 1856, p. 224; Mag. Asiat.
II. 93.)

[1] M. Bonin visited in 1899 these caves which he calls "Grottoes of
    Thousand Buddhas" (Tsien Fo tung). (La Géographie, 15th March,
    1901, p. 171.) He found a stèle dated 1348, bearing a Buddhist prayer
    in six different scripts like the inscription at Kiu Yung Kwan. (Rev.
    Hist. des Religions, 1901, p. 393.)--H. C.

CHAPTER XLI.

OF THE PROVINCE OF CAMUL.

Camul is a province which in former days was a kingdom. It contains numerous towns and villages,
but the chief city bears the name of CAMUL. The province lies between the two deserts; for
on the one side is the Great Desert of Lop, and on the other side is a small desert of three
days' journey in extent.[NOTE 1] The people are all Idolaters, and have a peculiar language.
They live by the fruits of the earth, which they have in plenty, and dispose of to travellers.
They are a people who take things very easily, for they mind nothing but playing and singing,
and dancing and enjoying themselves.[NOTE 2]

And it is the truth that if a foreigner comes to the house of one of these people to lodge,
the host is delighted, and desires his wife to put herself entirely at the guest's disposal,
whilst he himself gets out of the way, and comes back no more until the stranger shall have
taken his departure. The guest may stay and enjoy the wife's society as long as he lists, whilst
the husband has no shame in the matter, but indeed considers it an honour. And all the men
of this province are made wittols of by their wives in this way.[NOTE 3] The women themselves
are fair and wanton.

Now it came to pass during the reign of MANGU KAAN, that as lord of this province he came to
hear of this custom, and he sent forth an order commanding them under grievous penalties to
do so no more [but to provide public hostelries for travellers]. And when they heard this order
they were much vexed thereat. [For about three years' space they carried it out. But then they
found that their lands were no longer fruitful, and that many mishaps befell them.] So they
collected together and prepared a grand present which they sent to their Lord, praying him
graciously to let them retain the custom which they had inherited from their ancestors; for
it was by reason of this usage that their gods bestowed upon them all the good things that
they possessed, and without it they saw not how they could continue to exist.[NOTE 4] When
the Prince had heard their petition his reply was "Since ye must needs keep your shame, keep
it then," and so he left them at liberty to maintain their naughty custom. And they always
have kept it up, and do so still.

Now let us quit Camul, and I will tell you of another province which lies between north-west
and north, and belongs to the Great Kaan.

NOTE 1.--Kamul (or Komul) does not fall into the great line of travel towards Cathay which
Marco is following. His notice of it, and of the next province, forms a digression like that
which he has already made to Samarkand. It appears very doubtful if Marco himself had visited
it; his father and uncle may have done so on their first journey, as one of the chief routes
to Northern China from Western Asia lies through this city, and has done so for many centuries.
This was the route described by Pegolotti as that of the Italian traders in the century following
Polo; it was that followed by Marignolli, by the envoys of Shah Rukh at a later date, and at
a much later by Benedict Goës. The people were in Polo's time apparently Buddhist, as the Uighúrs
inhabiting this region had been from an old date: in Shah Rukh's time (1420) we find a mosque
and a great Buddhist Temple cheek by jowl; whilst Ramusio's friend Hajji Mahomed (circa 1550)
speaks of Kamul as the first Mahomedan city met with in travelling from China.

Kamul stands on an oasis carefully cultivated by aid of reservoirs for irrigation, and is noted
in China for its rice and for some of its fruits, especially melons and grapes. It is still
a place of some consequence, standing near the bifurcation of two great roads from China, one
passing north and the other south of the Thian Shan, and it was the site of the Chinese Commissariat
depôts for the garrisons to the westward. It was lost to the Chinese in 1867.

Kamul appears to have been the see of a Nestorian bishop. A Bishop of Kamul is mentioned as
present at the inauguration of the Catholicos Denha in 1266. (Russians in Cent. Asia, 129;
Ritter, II. 357 seqq.; Cathay, passim; Assemani, II. 455-456.)

[Kamul is the Turkish name of the province called by the Mongols Khamil, by the Chinese Hami;
the latter name is found for the first time in the Yuen Shi, but it is first mentioned in Chinese
history in the 1st century of our Era under the name of I-wu-lu or I-wu (Bretschneider, Med.
Res. II. p. 20); after the death of Chinghiz, it belonged to his son Chagataï. From the Great
Wall, at the Pass of Kia Yü, to Hami there is a distance of 1470 li. (C. Imbault-Huart. Le
Pays de Hami ou Khamil ... d'après les auteurs chinois, Bul. de Géog. hist. et desc., Paris,
1892, pp. 121-195.) The Chinese general Chang Yao was in 1877 at Hami, which had submitted
in 1867 to the Athalik Ghazi, and made it the basis of his operations against the small towns
of Chightam and Pidjam, and Yakúb Khan himself stationed at Turfan. The Imperial Chinese Agent
in this region bears the title of K'u lun Pan She Ta Ch'en and resides at K'urun (Urga); of
lesser rank are the agents (Pan She Ta Ch'en) of Kashgar, Kharashar, Kuché, Aksu, Khotan, and
Hami. (See a description of Hami by Colonel M. S. Bell, Proc. R. G. S. XII. 1890, p. 213.)--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--Expressed almost in the same words is the character attributed by a Chinese writer
to the people of Kuché in the same region. (Chin. Repos. IX. 126.) In fact, the character seems
to be generally applicable to the people of East Turkestan, but sorely kept down by the rigid
Islam that is now enforced. (See Shaw, passim, and especially the Mahrambáshi's lamentations
over the jolly days that were no more, pp. 319, 376.)

NOTE 3.--Pauthier's text has "sont si honni de leur moliers comme vous avez ouy." Here the
Crusca has "sono bozzi delle loro moglie," and the Lat. Geog. "sunt bezzi de suis uxoribus."
The Crusca Vocab. has inserted bozzo with the meaning we have given, on the strength of this
passage. It occurs also in Dante (Paradiso, XIX. 137), in the general sense of disgraced.

The shameful custom here spoken of is ascribed by Polo also to a province of Eastern Tibet,
and by popular report in modern times to the Hazaras of the Hindu-Kush, a people of Mongolian
blood, as well as to certain nomad tribes of Persia, to say nothing of the like accusation
against our own ancestors which has been drawn from Laonicus Chalcondylas. The old Arab traveller
Ibn Muhalhal (10th century) also relates the same of the Hazlakh (probably Kharlikh) Turks:
"Ducis alicujus uxor vel filia vel soror, quum mercatorum agmen in terram venit, eos adit,
eorumque lustrat faciem. Quorum siquis earum afficit admiratione hunc domum suam ducit, eumque
apud se hospitio excipit, eique benigne facit. Atque marito suo et filio fratrique rerum necessariarum
curam demandat; neque dum hospes apud eam habitat, nisi necessarium est, maritus eam adit."
A like custom prevails among the Chukchis and Koryaks in the vicinity of Kamtchatka. (Elphinstone's
Caubul; Wood, p. 201; Burnes, who discredits, II. 153, III. 195; Laon. Chalcond. 1650, pp.
48-49; Kurd de Schloezer, p. 13; Erman, II. 530.)

["It is remarkable that the Chinese author, Hung Hao, who lived a century before M. Polo, makes
mention in his memoirs nearly in the same words of this custom of the Uighúrs, with whom he
became acquainted during his captivity in the kingdom of the Kin. According to the chronicle
of the Tangut kingdom of Si-hia, Hami was the nursery of Buddhism in Si-hia, and provided this
kingdom with Buddhist books and monks." (Jerem. xliv. 18.)

CHAPTER XLII.

OF THE PROVINCE OF CHINGINTALAS.

Chingintalas is also a province at the verge of the Desert, and lying between north-west and
north. It has an extent of sixteen days' journey, and belongs to the Great Kaan, and contains
numerous towns and villages. There are three different races of people in it--Idolaters, Saracens,
and some Nestorian Christians.[NOTE 1] At the northern extremity of this province there is
a mountain in which are excellent veins of steel and ondanique.[NOTE 2] And you must know that
in the same mountain there is a vein of the substance from which Salamander is made.[NOTE 3]
For the real truth is that the Salamander is no beast, as they allege in our part of the world,
but is a substance found in the earth; and I will tell you about it.

Everybody must be aware that it can be no animal's nature to live in fire, seeing that every
animal is composed of all the four elements.[NOTE 4] Now I, Marco Polo, had a Turkish acquaintance
of the name of Zurficar, and he was a very clever fellow. And this Turk related to Messer Marco
Polo how he had lived three years in that region on behalf of the Great Kaan, in order to procure
those Salamanders for him.[NOTE 5] He said that the way they got them was by digging in that
mountain till they found a certain vein. The substance of this vein was then taken and crushed,
and when so treated it divides as it were into fibres of wool, which they set forth to dry.
When dry, these fibres were pounded in a great copper mortar, and then washed, so as to remove
all the earth and to leave only the fibres like fibres of wool. These were then spun, and made
into napkins. When first made these napkins are not very white, but by putting them into the
fire for a while they come out as white as snow. And so again whenever they become dirty they
are bleached by being put in the fire.

Now this, and nought else, is the truth about the Salamander, and the people of the country
all say the same. Any other account of the matter is fabulous nonsense. And I may add that
they have at Rome a napkin of this stuff, which the Grand Kaan sent to the Pope to make a wrapper
for the Holy Sudarium of Jesus Christ.[NOTE 6]

We will now quit this subject, and I will proceed with my account of the countries lying in
the direction between north-east and east.

NOTE 1.--The identification of this province is a difficulty, because the geographical definition
is vague, and the name assigned to it has not been traced in other authors. It is said to lie
between north-west and north, whilst Kamul was said to lie towards the north-west. The account
of both provinces forms a digression, as is clear from the last words of the present chapter,
where the traveller returns to take up his regular route "in the direction between north-east
and east." The point from which he digresses, and to which he reverts, is Shachau, and 'tis
presumably from Shachau that he assigns bearings to the two provinces forming the subject of
the digression. Hence, as Kamul lies vers maistre, i.e. north-west, and Chingintalas entre
maistre et tramontaine, i.e. nor'-nor'-west, Chingintalas can scarcely lie due west of Kamul,
as M. Pauthier would place it, in identifying it with an obscure place called Saiyintala, in
the territory of Urumtsi. Moreover, the province is said to belong to the Great Kaan. Now,
Urumtsi or Bishbalik seems to have belonged, not to the Great Kaan, but to the empire of Chagatai,
or possibly at this time to Kaidu. Rashiduddin, speaking of the frontier between the Kaan and
Kaidu, says:--"From point to point are posted bodies of troops under the orders of princes
of the blood or other generals, and they often come to blows with the troops of Kaidu. Five
of these are cantoned on the verge of the Desert; a sixth in Tangut, near Chagan-Nor (White
Lake); a seventh in the vicinity of Karakhoja, a city of the Uighúrs, which lies between the
two States, and maintains neutrality."

Karakhoja, this neutral town, is near Turfan, to the south-east of Urumtsi, which thus would
lie without the Kaan's boundary; Kamul and the country north-east of it would lie within it.
This country, to the north and north-east of Kamul, has remained till quite recently unexplored
by any modern traveller, unless we put faith in Mr. Atkinson's somewhat hazy narrative. But
it is here that I would seek for Chingintalas.

Several possible explanations of this name have suggested themselves or been suggested to me.
I will mention two.

1. Klaproth states that the Mongols applied to Tibet the name of Baron-tala, signifying the
"Right Side," i.e. the south-west or south quarter, whilst Mongolia was called Dzöhn (or Dzegun)
Tala, i.e. the "Left," or north-east side. It is possible that Chigin-talas might represent
Dzegun Tala in some like application. The etymology of Dzungaria, a name which in modern times
covers the territory of which we are speaking, is similar.

2. Professor Vámbéry thinks that it is probably Chingin Tala, "The Vast Plain." But nothing
can be absolutely satisfactory in such a case except historical evidence of the application
of the name.

I have left the identity of this name undecided, though pointing to the general position of
the region so-called by Marco, as indicated by the vicinity of the Tangnu-Ola Mountains (p.
215). A passage in the Journey of the Taouist Doctor, Changchun, as translated by Dr. Bretschneider
(Chinese Recorder and Miss. Journ., Shanghai, Sept.-Oct., 1874, p. 258), suggests to me the
strong probability that it may be the Kem-kém-jút of Rashiduddin, called by the Chinese teacher
Kien-kien-chau.

Rashiduddin couples the territory of the Kirghiz with Kemkemjút, but defines the country embracing
both with some exactness: "On one side (south-east?), it bordered on the Mongol country; on
a second (north-east?), it was bounded by the Selenga; on a third (north), by the 'great river
called Angara, which flows on the confines of Ibir-Sibir' (i.e. of Siberia); on a fourth side
by the territory of the Naimans. This great country contained many towns and villages, as well
as many nomad inhabitants." Dr. Bretschneider's Chinese Traveller speaks of it as a country
where good iron was found, where (grey) squirrels abounded, and wheat was cultivated. Other
notices quoted by him show that it lay to the south-east of the Kirghiz country, and had its
name from the Kien or Ken R. (i.e. the Upper Yenisei).

The name (Kienkien), the general direction, the existence of good iron ("steel and ondanique"),
the many towns and villages in a position where we should little look for such an indication,
all point to the identity of this region with the Chingintalas of our text. The only alteration
called for in the Itinerary Map (No. IV.) would be to spell the name Hinkin, or Ghinghin (as
it is in the Geographic Text), and to shift it a very little further to the north. He had not
then thought of connecting this name with Chinghin-talas, and has therefore no information
as to its origin or the extent of its application. But he remarks that Polo's bearing of between
north and north-west, if understood to be from Kamul, would point exactly to Kobdo. He also
calls attention to the Lake Sankin-dalai, to the north-east of Uliasut'ai, of which Atkinson
gives a sketch. The recurrence of this name over so wide a tract may have something to do with
the Chinghin-talas of Polo. But we must still wait for further light.[1]

["Supposing that M. Polo mentions this place on his way from Sha-chow to Su-chow, it is natural
to think that it is Chi-kin-talas, i.e. 'Chi-kin plain' or valley; Chi-kin was the name of
a lake, called so even now, and of a defile, which received its name from the lake. The latter
is on the way from Kia-yü kwan to Ansi chow." (Palladius, l.c. p. 7.) "Chikin, or more correctly
Chigin, is a Mongol word meaning 'ear.'" (Ibid.) Palladius (p. 8) adds: "The Chinese accounts
of Chi-kin are not in contradiction to the statements given by M. Polo regarding the same subject;
but when the distances are taken into consideration, a serious difficulty arises; Chi-kin is
two hundred and fifty or sixty li distant from Su-chow, whilst, according to M. Polo's statement,
ten days are necessary to cross this distance. One of the three following explanations of this
discrepancy must be admitted: either Chingintalas is not Chi-kin, or the traveller's memory
failed, or, lastly, an error crept into the number of days' journey. The two last suppositions
I consider the most probable; the more so that similar difficulties occur several times in
Marco Polo's narrative." (L.c. p. 8.)--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--[Ondanique.--We have already referred to this word, Kermán, p. 90. Cobinan, p. 124.
La Curne de Sainte-Palaye (Dict.), F. Godefroy (Dict.), Du Cange (Gloss.), all give to andain
the meaning of enjambée, from the Latin andare. Godefroy, s.v. andaine, calls it sorte d'acier
ou de fer, and quotes besides Marco Polo:

  "I. espiel, ou ot fer d'andaine,
  Dont la lamele n'iert pas trouble."

(Huon de Mery, Le Tornoiement de l'Antechrist, p. 3, Tarbé.)

There is a forest in the department of Orne, arrondissement of Domfront, which belonged to
the Crown before 1669, and is now State property, called Forêt d'Andaine; it is situated near
some bed of iron. Is this the origin of the name?--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--The Altai, or one of its ramifications, is probably the mountain of the text, but
so little is known of this part of the Chinese territory that we can learn scarcely anything
of its mineral products. Still Martini does mention that asbestos is found "in the Tartar country
of Tangu," which probably is the Tangnu Oola branch of the Altai to the south of the Upper
Yenisei, and in the very region we have indicated as Chingintalas. Mr. Elias tells me he inquired
for asbestos by its Chinese name at Uliasut'ai, but without success.

NOTE 4.--

  "Degli elementi quattro principali,
  Che son la Terra, e l'Acqua, e l'Aria, e'l Foco,
  Composti sono gli universi Animali,
  Pigliando di ciascuno assai o poco."
      (Dati, La Sfera, p. 9.)

Zurficar in the next sentence is a Mahomedan name, Zu'lfikár, the title of [the edge of] Ali's
sword.

NOTE 5.--Here the G. Text adds: "Et je meisme le vi," intimating, I conceive, his having himself
seen specimens of the asbestos--not to his having been at the place.

NOTE 6.--The story of the Salamander passing unhurt through fire is at least as old as Aristotle.
But I cannot tell when the fable arose that asbestos was a substance derived from the animal.
This belief, however, was general in the Middle Ages, both in Asia and Europe. "The fable of
the Salamander," says Sir Thomas Browne, "hath been much promoted by stories of incombustible
napkins and textures which endure the fire, whose materials are called by the name of Salamander's
wool, which many, too literally apprehending, conceive some investing part or integument of
the Salamander.... Nor is this Salamander's wool desumed from any animal, but a mineral substance,
metaphorically so called for this received opinion."

Those who knew that the Salamander was a lizard-like animal were indeed perplexed as to its
woolly coat. Thus the Cardinal de Vitry is fain to say the creature "profert ex cute quasi
quamdam lanam de quâ zonae contextae comburi non possunt igne." A Bestiary, published by Cahier
and Martin, says of it: "De lui naist une cose qui n'est ne soie ne lin ne laine." Jerome Cardan
looked in vain, he says, for hair on the Salamander! Albertus Magnus calls the incombustible
fibre pluma Salamandri; and accordingly Bold Bauduin de Sebourc finds the Salamander in the
Terrestrial Paradise a kind of bird covered with the whitest plumage; of this he takes some,
which he gets woven into a cloth; this he presents to the Pope, and the Pontiff applies it
to the purpose mentioned in the text, viz. to cover the holy napkin of St. Veronica.

Gervase of Tilbury writes: "I saw, when lately at Rome, a broad strap of Salamander skin, like
a girdle for the loins, which had been brought thither by Cardinal Peter of Capua. When it
had become somewhat soiled by use, I myself saw it cleaned perfectly, and without receiving
harm, by being put in the fire."

In Persian the creature is called Samandar, Samandal, etc., and some derive the word from Sam,
"fire," and Andar, "within." Doubtless it is a corruption of the Greek [Greek: Salamándra],
whatever be the origin of that. Bakui says the animal is found at Ghur, near Herat, and is
like a mouse. Another author, quoted by D'Herbelot, says it is like a marten.

[Sir T. Douglas Forsyth, in his Introductory Remarks to Prjevalsky's Travels to Lob-nor (p.
20), at Aksu says: "The asbestos mentioned by Marco Polo as a utilized product of this region
is not even so known in this country."--H. C.]

+ Interesting details regarding the fabrication of cloth and paper from amianth or asbestos
are contained in a report presented to the French Institute by M. Sage (Mém. Ac. Sciences,
2e Sem., 1806, p. 102), of which large extracts are given in the Diction. général des Tissus,
par M. Bezon, 2e éd. vol. ii. Lyon, 1859, p. 5. He mentions that a Sudarium of this material
is still shown at the Vatican; we hope it is the cover which Kúblái sent.

[This hope is not to be realized. Mgr. Duchesne, of the Institut de France, writes to me from
Rome, from information derived from the keepers of the Vatican Museum, that there is no sudarium
from the Great Khan, that indeed part of a sudarium made of asbestos is shown (under glass)
in this Museum, about 20 inches long, but it is ancient, and was found in a Pagan tomb of the
Appian Way.--H. C.]

M. Sage exhibited incombustible paper made from this material, and had himself seen a small
furnace of Chinese origin made from it. Madame Perpenté, an Italian lady, who experimented
much with asbestos, found that from a crude mass of that substance threads could be elicited
which were ten times the length of the mass itself, and were indeed sometimes several metres
in length, the fibres seeming to be involved, like silk in a cocoon. Her process of preparation
was much like that described by Marco. She succeeded in carding and reeling the material, made
gloves and the like, as well as paper, from it, and sent to the Institute a work printed on
such paper.

The Rev. A. Williamson mentions asbestos as found in Shantung. The natives use it for making
stoves, crucibles, and so forth.

(Sir T. Browne, I. 293; Bongars, I. 1104; Cahier et Martin, III. 271; Cardan, de Rer. Varietate,
VII. 33; Alb. Mag. Opera, 1551, II. 227, 233; Fr. Michel, Recherches, etc., II. 91; Gerv. of
Tilbury, p. 13; N. et E. II. 493; D. des Tissus, II. 1-12; J. N. China Branch R. A. S., December,
1867, p. 70.) [Berger de Xivrey, Traditions tératologiques, 457-458, 460-463.--H. C.]

[1] The late Mr. Atkinson has been twice alluded to in this note. I take
    the opportunity of saying that Mr. Ney Elias, a most competent judge,
    who has travelled across the region in question whilst admitting, as
    every one must, Atkinson's vagueness and sometimes very careless
    statements, is not at all disposed to discredit the truth of his
    narrative.

CHAPTER XLIII.

OF THE PROVINCE OF SUKCHUR.

On leaving the province of which I spoke before,[NOTE 1] you ride ten days between north-east
and east, and in all that way you find no human dwelling, or next to none, so that there is
nothing for our book to speak of.

At the end of those ten days you come to another province called SUKCHUR, in which there are
numerous towns and villages. The chief city is called SUKCHU.[NOTE 2] The people are partly
Christians and partly Idolaters, and all are subject to the Great Kaan.

The great General Province to which all these three provinces belong is called TANGUT. The
cattle of the country know it and eschew it.[NOTE 4]] The people live by agriculture, and have
not much trade. [They are of a brown complexion. The whole of the province is healthy.]

NOTE 1.--Referring apparently to Shachau; see Note 1 and the closing words of last chapter.

NOTE 2.--There is no doubt that the province and city are those of SUHCHAU, but there is a
great variety in the readings, and several texts have a marked difference between the name
of the province and that of the city, whilst others give them as the same. I have adopted those
to which the resultants of the readings of the best texts seem to point, viz. Succiur and Succiu,
though with considerable doubt whether they should not be identical. Pauthier declares that
Suctur, which is the reading of his favourite MS., is the exact pronunciation, after the vulgar
Mongol manner, of Suh-chau-lu, the Lu or circuit of Suhchau; whilst Neumann says that the Northern
Chinese constantly add an euphonic particle or to the end of words. I confess to little faith
in such refinements, when no evidence is produced.

[Suhchau had been devastated and its inhabitants massacred by Chinghiz Khan in 1226.--H. C.]

Suhchau is called by Rashiduddin, and by Shah Rukh's ambassadors, Sukchú, in exact correspondence
with the reading we have adopted for the name of the city, whilst the Russian Envoy Boikoff,
in the 17th century, calls it "Suktsey, where the rhubarb grows"; and Anthony Jenkinson, in
Hakluyt, by a slight metathesis, Sowchick. Suhchau lies just within the extreme north-west
angle of the Great Wall. It was at Suhchau that Benedict Goës was detained, waiting for leave
to go on to Peking, eighteen weary months, and there he died just as aid reached him.

NOTE 3.--The real rhubarb [Rheum palmatum] grows wild, on very high mountains. The central
line of its distribution appears to be the high range dividing the head waters of the Hwang-Ho,
Yalung, and Min-Kiang. The chief markets are Siningfu (see ch. lvii.), and Kwan-Kian in Szechwan.
In the latter province an inferior kind is grown in fields, but the genuine rhubarb defies
cultivation. (See Richthofen, Letters, No. VII. p. 69.) Till recently it was almost all exported
by Kiakhta and Russia, but some now comes viâ Hankau and Shanghai.

["See, on the preparation of the root in China, Gemelli-Careri. (Churchill's Collect., Bk.
III. ch. v. 365.) It is said that when Chinghiz Khan was pillaging Tangut, the only things
his minister, Yeh-lü Ch'u-ts'ai, would take as his share of the booty were a few Chinese books
and a supply of rhubarb, with which he saved the lives of a great number of Mongols, when,
a short time after, an epidemic broke out in the army." (D'Ohsson, I. 372.--Rockhill, Rubruck,
p. 193, note.)

"With respect to rhubarb ... the Suchowchi also makes the remark, that the best rhubarb, with
golden flowers in the breaking, is gathered in this province (district of Shan-tan), and that
it is equally beneficial to men and beasts, preserving them from the pernicious effects of
the heat." (Palladius, l.c. p. 9.)--H. C.]

NOTE 4.--Erba is the title applied to the poisonous growth, which may be either "plant" or
"grass." It is not unlikely that it was a plant akin to the Andromeda ovalifolia, the tradition
of the poisonous character of which prevails everywhere along the Himalaya from Nepal to the Indus.

It is notorious for poisoning sheep and goats at Simla and other hill sanitaria; and Dr. Cleghorn
notes the same circumstance regarding it that Polo heard of the plant in Tangut, viz. that
its effects on flocks imported from the plains are highly injurious, whilst those of the hills
do not appear to suffer, probably because they shun the young leaves, which alone are deleterious.
Mr. Marsh attests the like fact regarding the Kalmia angustifolia of New England, a plant of
the same order (Ericaceae). Sheep bred where it abounds almost always avoid browsing on its
leaves, whilst those brought from districts where it is unknown feed upon it and are poisoned.

Firishta, quoting from the Zafar-Námah, says: "On the road from Kashmir towards Tibet there
is a plain on which no other vegetable grows but a poisonous grass that destroys all the cattle
that taste of it, and therefore no horsemen venture to travel that route." And Abbé Desgodins,
writing from E. Tibet, mentions that sheep and goats are poisoned by rhododendron leaves. (Dr.
Hugh Cleghorn in J. Agricultural and Hortic. Society of India, XIV. part 4; Marsh's Man and
Nature, p. 40; Briggs Firishta, IV. 449; Bul. de la Soc. de Géog. 1873, I. 333.)

["This poisonous plant seems to be the Stipa inebrians described by the late Dr. Hance in the
Journal of Bot. 1876, p. 211, from specimens sent to me by Belgian Missionaries from the Ala
Shan Mountains, west of the Yellow River." (Bretschneider, Hist. of Bot. Disc. I. p. 5.)

"M. Polo notices that the cattle not indigenous to the province lose their hoofs in the Suh-chau
Mountains; but that is probably not on account of some poisonous grass, but in consequence
of the stony ground." (Palladius, l.c. p. 9.)--H. C.]

CHAPTER XLIV.

OF THE CITY OF CAMPICHU.

Campichu is also a city of Tangut, and a very great and noble one.

Now, as I have not yet given you particulars about the customs of these Idolaters, I will proceed
to tell you about them.

You must know that there are among them certain religious recluses who lead a more virtuous
life than the rest. These abstain from all lechery, though they do not indeed regard it as
a deadly sin; howbeit if any one sin against nature they condemn him to death. They have an
Ecclesiastical Calendar as we have; and there are five days in the month that they observe
particularly; and on these five days they would on no account either slaughter any animal or
eat flesh meat. On those days, moreover, they observe much greater abstinence altogether than
on other days.[NOTE 3]

Among these people a man may take thirty wives, more or less, if he can but afford to do so,
each having wives in proportion to his wealth and means; but the first wife is always held
in highest consideration. The men endow their wives with cattle, slaves, and money, according
to their ability. And if a man dislikes any one of his wives, he just turns her off and takes
another. They take to wife their cousins and their fathers' widows (always excepting the man's
own mother), holding to be no sin many things that we think grievous sins, and, in short, they
live like beasts.[NOTE 4]

Messer Maffeo and Messer Marco Polo dwelt a whole year in this city when on a mission.[NOTE 5]

Now we will leave this and tell you about other provinces towards the north, for we are going
to take you a sixty days' journey in that direction.

NOTE 1.--Campichiu is undoubtedly Kanchau, which was at this time, as Pauthier tells us, the
chief city of the administration of Kansuh corresponding to Polo's Tangut. Kansuh itself is
a name compounded of the names of the two cities Kan-chau and Suh-chau.

[Kanchau fell under the Tangut dominion in 1208. (Palladius, p. 10.) The Musulmans mentioned
by Polo at Shachau and Kanchau probably came from Khotan.--H. C.]

The difficulties that have been made about the form of the name Campiciou, etc., in Polo, and
the attempts to explain these, are probably alike futile. Quatremère writes the Persian form
of the name after Abdurrazzak as Kamtcheou, but I see that Erdmann writes it after Rashid,
I presume on good grounds, as Ckamidschu, i.e. Kamiju or Kamichu. And that this was the Western
pronunciation of the name is shown by the form which Pegolotti uses, Camexu, i.e. Camechu.
The p in Polo's spelling is probably only a superfluous letter, as in the occasional old spelling
of dampnum, contempnere, hympnus, tirampnus, sompnour, Dampne Deu. In fact, Marignolli writes
Polo's Quinsai as Campsay.

It is worthy of notice that though Ramusio's text prints the names of these two cities as Succuir
and Campion, his own pronunciation of them appears to have been quite well understood by the
Persian traveller Hajji Mahomed, for it is perfectly clear that the latter recognized in these
names Suhchau and Kanchau. (See Ram. II. f. 14v.) The second volume of the Navigationi, containing
Polo, was published after Ramusio's death, and it is possible that the names as he himself
read them were more correct (e.g. Succiur, Campjou).

NOTE 2.--This is the meaning of the phrase in the G. T.: "Ceste grande ydre gigent," as may
be seen from Ramusio's giaciono distesi. Lazari renders the former expression, "giganteggia
un idolo," etc., a phrase very unlike Polo. The circumstance is interesting, because this recumbent
Colossus at Kanchau is mentioned both by Hajji Mahomed and by Shah Rukh's people. The latter
say: "In this city of Kanchú there is an Idol-Temple 500 cubits square. In the middle is an
idol lying at length which measures 50 paces. These great recumbent figures are favourites
in Buddhist countries still, e.g. in Siam, Burma, and Ceylon. They symbolise Sakya Buddha entering
Nirvána. Such a recumbent figure, perhaps the prototype of these, was seen by Hiuen Tsang in
a Vihara close to the Sál Grove at Kusinágara, where Sakya entered that state, i.e. died. The
stature of Buddha was, we are told, 12 cubits; but Brahma, Indra, and the other gods vainly
tried to compute his dimensions. Some such rude metaphor is probably embodied in these large
images. I have described one 69 feet long in Burma (represented in the cut), but others exist
of much greater size, though probably none equal to that which Hiuen Tsang, in the 7th century,
saw near Bamian, which was 1000 feet in length! I have heard of but one such image remaining
in India, viz. in one of the caves at Dhamnár in Málwa. This is 15 feet long, and is popularly
known as "Bhim's Baby." (Cathay, etc., pp. cciii., ccxviii.; Mission to Ava, p. 52; V. et V.
de H. T., p. 374: Cunningham's Archael. Reports, ii. 274; Tod, ii. 273.)

["The temple, in which M. Polo saw an idol of Buddha, represented in a lying position, is evidently
Wo-fo-sze, i.e. 'Monastery of the lying Buddha.' It was built in 1103 by a Tangut queen, to
place there three idols representing Buddha in this posture, which have since been found in
the ground on this very spot." (Palladius, l.c. p. 10.)

Rubruck (p. 144) says, "A Nestorian, who had come from Cathay told me that in that country
there is an idol so big that it can be seen from two days off." Mr. Rockhill (Rubruck, p. 144,
note) writes, "The largest stone image I have seen is in a cave temple at Yung kan, about 10
miles north-west of Ta t'ung Fu in Shan-si. Père Gerbillon says the Emperor K'ang hsi measured
it himself and found it to be 57 chih high (61 feet). (Duhalde, Description, IV. 352.) I have
seen another colossal statue in a cave near Pinchou in north-west Shan-si, and there is another
about 45 miles south of Ning hsia Fu, near the left bank of the Yellow River. (Rockhill, Land
of the Lamas, 26, and Diary, 47.) The great recumbent figure of the 'Sleeping Buddha' in the
Wo Fo ssu, near Peking, is of clay."

King Haython (Brosset's ed. p. 181) mentions the statue in clay, of an extraordinary height,
of a God (Buddha) aged 3040 years, who is to live 370,000 years more, when he will be superseded
by another god called Madri (Maitreya).--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--Marco is now speaking of the Lamas, or clergy of Tibetan Buddhism. The customs mentioned
have varied in details, both locally and with the changes that the system has passed through
in the course of time.

The institutes of ancient Buddhism set apart the days of new and full moon to be observed by
the Sramanas or monks, by fasting, confession, and listening to the reading of the law. It
became usual for the laity to take part in the observance, and the number of days was increased
to three and then to four, whilst Hiuen Tsang himself speaks of "the six fasts of every month,"
and a Chinese authority quoted by Julien gives the days as the 8th, 14th, 15th, 23rd, 29th,
and 30th. Fabian says that in Ceylon preaching took place on the 8th, 14th, and 15th days of
the month. Four is the number now most general amongst Buddhist nations, and the days may be
regarded as a kind of Buddhist Sabbath. In the southern countries and in Nepal they occur at
the moon's changes. In Tibet and among the Mongol Buddhists they are not at equal intervals,
though I find the actual days differently stated by different authorities. Pallas says the
Mongols observed the 13th, 14th, and 15th, the three days being brought together, he thought,
on account of the distance many Lamas had to travel to the temple--just as in some Scotch country
parishes they used to give two sermons in one service for like reason! Koeppen, to whose work
this note is much indebted, says the Tibetan days are the 14th, 15th, 29th, 30th, and adds
as to the manner of observance: "On these days, by rule, among the Lamas, nothing should be
tasted but farinaceous food and tea; the very devout refrain from all food from sunrise to
sunset. The Temples are decorated, and the altar tables set out with the holy symbols, with
tapers, and with dishes containing offerings in corn, meal, tea, butter, etc., and especially
with small pyramids of dough, or of rice or clay, and accompanied by much burning of incense-sticks.
The service performed by the priests is more solemn, the music louder and more exciting, than
usual. The laity make their offerings, tell their beads, and repeat Om mani padma hom," etc.
In the concordat that took place between the Dalai-Lama and the Altun Khaghan, on the reconversion
of the Mongols to Buddhism in the 16th century, one of the articles was the entire prohibition
of hunting and the slaughter of animals on the monthly fast days. The practice varies much,
however, even in Tibet, with different provinces and sects--a variation which the Ramusian
text of Polo implies in these words: "For five days, or four days, or three in each month,
they shed no blood," etc.

In Burma the Worship Day, as it is usually called by Europeans, is a very gay scene, the women
flocking to the pagodas in their brightest attire. (H. T. Mémoires, I. 6, 208; Koeppen, I.
563-564, II. 139, 307-308; Pallas, Samml. II. 168-169).

NOTE 4.--These matrimonial customs are the same that are afterwards ascribed to the Tartars,
so we defer remark.

NOTE 5.--So Pauthier's text, "en legation." The G. Text includes Nicolo Polo, and says, "on
business of theirs that is not worth mentioning," and with this Ramusio agrees.

CHAPTER XLV.

OF THE CITY OF ETZINA.

When you leave the city of Campichu you ride for twelve days, and then reach a city called
ETZINA, which is towards the north on the verge of the Sandy Desert; it belongs to the Province
of Tangut.[NOTE 1] The people are Idolaters, and possess plenty of camels and cattle, and the
country produces a number of good falcons, both Sakers and Lanners. The inhabitants live by
their cultivation and their cattle, for they have no trade. You also meet with wild beasts
(for there are some small pine-woods here and there), and with numbers of wild asses.[NOTE
3] When you have travelled these forty days across the Desert you come to a certain province
lying to the north. Its name you shall hear presently.

NOTE 1.--Deguignes says that YETSINA is found in a Chinese Map of Tartary of the Mongol era,
and this is confirmed by Pauthier, who reads it Itsinai, and adds that the text of the Map
names it as one of the seven Lu or Circuits of the Province of Kansuh (or Tangut). Indeed,
in D'Anville's Atlas we find a river called Etsina Pira, running northward from Kanchau, and
a little below the 41st parallel joining another from Suhchau. Beyond the junction is a town
called Hoa-tsiang, which probably represents Etzina. Yetsina is also mentioned in Gaubil's
History of Chinghiz as taken by that conqueror in 1226, on his last campaign against Tangut.
This capture would also seem from Pétis de la Croix to be mentioned by Rashiduddin. Gaubil
says the Chinese Geography places Yetsina north of Kanchau and north-east of Suhchau, at a
distance of 120 leagues from Kanchau, but observes that this is certainly too great. (Gaubil,
p. 49.)

[I believe there can be no doubt that Etzina must be looked for on the river Hei-shui, called
Etsina by the Mongols, east of Suhchau. This river empties its waters into the two lakes Soho-omo
and Sopo-omo. This river was once part of the frontier of the kingdom of Tangut. (Cf. Devéria,
Notes d'épigraphie mongolo-chinoise, p. 4.) Reclus (Géog. Univ., Asie Orientale, p. 159) says:
"To the east [of Hami], beyond the Chukur Gobi, are to be found also some permanent villages
and the remains of cities. One of them is perhaps the 'cité d'Etzina' of which Marco Polo speaks,
and the name is to be found in that of the river Az-sind."

"Through Kanchau was the shortest, and most direct and convenient road to I-tsi-nay.... I-tsi-nay,
or Echiné, is properly the name of a lake. Khubilaï, disquieted by his factious relatives on
the north, established a military post near lake I-tsi-nay, and built a town, or a fort on
the south-western shore of this lake. The name of I-tsi-nay appears from that time; it does
not occur in the chronicle of the Tangut kingdom; the lake had then another name. Vestiges
of the town are seen to this day; the buildings were of large dimensions, and some of them
were very fine. In Marco Polo's time there existed a direct route from I-tsi-nay to Karakorum;
traces of this road are still noticeable, but it is no more used. This circumstance, i.e. the
existence of a road from I-tsi-nay to Karakorum, probably led Marco Polo to make an excursion
(a mental one, I suppose) to the residence of the Khans in Northern Mongolia." (Palladius,
l.c. pp. 10-11.)--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--"Erberge" (G. T.). Pauthier has Herbage.

NOTE 3.--The Wild Ass of Mongolia is the Dshiggetai of Pallas (Asinus hemionus of Gray), and
identical with the Tibetan Kyang of Moorcroft and Trans-Himalayan sportsmen. It differs, according
to Blyth, only in shades of colour and unimportant markings from the Ghor Khar of Western India
and the Persian Deserts, the Kulan of Turkestan, which Marco has spoken of in a previous passage
(suprà, ch. xvi.; J. A. S. B. XXVIII. 229 seqq.). There is a fine Kyang in the Zoological Gardens,
whose portrait, after Wolf, is given here. But Mr. Ney Elias says of this animal that he has
little of the aspect of his nomadic brethren. [The wild ass (Tibetan Kyang, Mongol Holu or
Hulan) is called by the Chinese yeh ma, "wild horse," though "every one admits that it is an
ass, and should be called yeh lo-tzu." (Rockhill, Land of the Lamas, 151, note.)--H. C.]

[Captain Younghusband (1886) saw in the Altaï Mountains "considerable numbers of wild asses,
which appeared to be perfectly similar to the Kyang of Ladak and Tibet, and wild horses too--the
Equus Prejevalskii--roaming about these great open plains." (Proc. R. G. S. X. 1888, p. 495.)
Dr. Sven Hedin says the habitat of the Kulan is the heights of Tibet as well as the valley
of the Tarim; it looks like a mule with the mane and tail of an ass, but shorter ears, longer
than those of a horse; he gives a picture of it.--H. C.]

CHAPTER XLVI.

OF THE CITY OF CARACORON.

Caracoron is a city of some three miles in compass. [It is surrounded by a strong earthen rampart,
for stone is scarce there. And beside it there is a great citadel wherein is a fine palace
in which the Governor resides.] 'Tis the first city that the Tartars possessed after they issued
from their own country. And now I will tell you all about how they first acquired dominion
and spread over the world.[NOTE 1]

Originally the Tartars[NOTE 2] dwelt in the north on the borders of CHORCHA.[NOTE 3] Their
country was one of great plains; and there were no towns or villages in it, but excellent pasture-lands,
with great rivers and many sheets of water; in fact it was a very fine and extensive region.
But there was no sovereign in the land. They did, however, pay tax and tribute to a great prince
who was called in their tongue UNC CAN, the same that we call Prester John, him in fact about
whose great dominion all the world talks.[NOTE 4] The tribute he had of them was one beast
out of every ten, and also a tithe of all their other gear.

Now it came to pass that the Tartars multiplied exceedingly. And when Prester John saw how
great a people they had become, he began to fear that he should have trouble from them. So
he made a scheme to distribute them over sundry countries, and sent one of his Barons to carry
this out. When the Tartars became aware of this they took it much amiss, and with one consent
they left their country and went off across a desert to a distant region towards the north,
where Prester John could not get at them to annoy them. Thus they revolted from his authority
and paid him tribute no longer. And so things continued for a time.

NOTE 1.--KARÁKORUM, near the upper course of the River Orkhon, is said by Chinese authors to
have been founded by Búkú Khan of the Hoei-Hu or Uigúrs, in the 8th century, In the days of
Chinghiz, we are told that it was the headquarters of his ally, and afterwards enemy, Togrul
Wang Khan, the Prester John of Polo. ["The name of this famous city is Mongol, Kara, 'black,'
and Kuren, 'a camp,' or properly 'pailing.'" It was founded in 1235 by Okkodai, who called
it Ordu Balik, or "the City of the Ordu," otherwise "The Royal City." Mohammedan authors say
it took its name of Karákorum from the mountains to the south of it, in which the Orkhon had
its source. (D'Ohsson, ii. 64.) The Chinese mention a range of mountains from which the Orkhon
flows, called Wu-tê kien shan. (T'ang shu, bk. 43b.) Probably these are the same. Rashiduddin
speaks of a tribe of Utikien Uigúrs living in this country. (Bretschneider, Med. Geog. 191;
D'Ohsson, i. 437. Rockhill, Rubruck, 220, note.)--Karákorum was called by the Chinese Ho-lin
and was chosen by Chinghiz, in 1206, as his capital; the full name of it, Ha-la Ho-lin, was
derived from a river to the west. (Yuen shi, ch. lviii.) Gaubil (Holin, p. 10) says that the
river, called in his days in Tartar Karoha, was, at the time of the Mongol Emperors, named
by the Chinese Ha-la Ho-lin, in Tartar language Ka la Ko lin, or Cara korin, or Kara Koran.
In the spring of 1235, Okkodai had a wall raised round Ho-lin and a palace called Wang an,
built inside the city. (Gaubil, Gentchiscan, 89.) After the death of Kúblái, Ho-lin was altered
into Ho-Ning, and, in 1320, the name of the province was changed into Ling-pé (mountainous
north, i.e. the Yin-shan chain, separating China Proper from Mongolia). In 1256, Mangu Kaan
decided to transfer the seat of government to Kaiping-fu, or Shangtu, near the present Dolonnor,
north of Peking. (Suprà in Prologue, ch. xiii. note 1.) In 1260, Kúblái transferred his capital
to Ta-Tu (Peking).

Plano Carpini (1246) is the first Western traveller to mention it by name which he writes Caracoron;
he visited the Sira Orda, at half a day's journey from Karákorum, where Okkodai used to pass
the summer; it was situated at a place Ormektua. (Rockhill, Rubruck, 21, III.) Rubruquis (1253)
visited the city itself; the following is his account of it: "As regards the city of Caracoron,
you must understand that if you set aside the Kaan's own Palace, it is not as good as the Borough
of St. Denis; and as for the Palace, the Abbey of St. Denis is worth ten of it! There are two
streets in the town; one of which is occupied by the Saracens, and in that is the marketplace.
The other street is occupied by the Cathayans, who are all craftsmen. Besides these two streets
there are some great palaces occupied by the court secretaries. There are also twelve idol
temples belonging to different nations, two Mahummeries in which the Law of Mahomet is preached,
and one church of the Christians at the extremity of the town. The town is enclosed by a mud-wall
and has four gates. At the east gate they sell millet and other corn, but the supply is scanty;
at the west gate they sell rams and goats; at the south gate oxen and waggons; at the north
gate horses.... Mangu Kaan has a great Court beside the Town Rampart, which is enclosed by
a brick wall, just like our priories. Inside there is a big palace, within which he holds a
drinking-bout twice a year;... there are also a number of long buildings like granges, in which
are kept his treasures and his stores of victual" (345-6; 334).

Where was Karákorum situated?

The Archimandrite Palladius is very prudent (l.c. p. 11): "Everything that the studious Chinese
authors could gather and say of the situation of Karakhorum is collected in two Chinese works,
Lo fung low wen kao (1849), and Mungku yew mu ki (1859). However, no positive conclusion can
be derived from these researches, chiefly in consequence of the absence of a tolerably correct
map of Northern Mongolia."

Abel Rémusat (Mém. sur Géog. Asie Centrale, p. 20) made a confusion between Karábalgasun and
Karákorum which has misled most writers after him.

Sir Henry Yule says: "The evidence adduced in Abel Rémusat's paper on Karákorum (Mém. de l'
Acad. R. des Insc. VII. 288) establishes the site on the north bank of the Orkhon, and about
five days' journey above the confluence of the Orkhon and Tula. But as we have only a very
loose knowledge of these rivers, it is impossible to assign the geographical position with
accuracy. Nor is it likely that ruins exist beyond an outline perhaps of the Kaan's Palace walls."

In the Geographical Magazine for July, 1874 (p. 137), Sir Henry Yule has been enabled, by the
kind aid of Madame Fedtchenko in supplying a translation from the Russian, to give some account
of Mr. Paderin's visit to the place, in the summer of 1873, along with a sketch-map.

"The site visited by Mr. Paderin is shown, by the particulars stated in that paper, to be sufficiently
identified with Karákorum. It is precisely that which Rémusat indicated, and which bears in
the Jesuit maps, as published by D'Anville, the name of Talarho Hara Palhassoun (i.e. Kará
Balghásun), standing 4 or 5 miles from the left bank of the Orkhon, in lat. (by the Jesuit
Tables) 47° 32' 24". It is now known as Kara-Kharam (Rampart) or Kara Balghasun (city). The
remains consist of a quadrangular rampart of mud and sun-dried brick, of about 500 paces to
the side, and now about 9 feet high, with traces of a higher tower, and of an inner rampart
parallel to the other. But these remains probably appertain to the city as re-occupied by the
descendants of the Yuen in the end of the 14th century, after their expulsion from China."

Dr. Bretschneider (Med. Res. I. p. 123) rightly observes: "It seems, however, that Paderin
is mistaken in his supposition. At least it does not agree with the position assigned to the
ancient Mongol residence in the Mongol annals Erdenin erikhe, translated into Russian, in 1883,
by Professor Pozdneiev. It is there positively stated (p. 110, note 2) that the monastery of
Erdenidsu, founded in 1585, was erected on the ruins of that city, which once had been built
by order of Ogotai Khan, and where he had established his residence; and where, after the expulsion
of the Mongols from China, Togontemur again had fixed the Mongol court. This vast monastery
still exists, one English mile, or more, east of the Orkhon. It has even been astronomically
determined by the Jesuit missionaries, and is marked on our maps of Mongolia. Pozdneiev, who
visited the place in 1877, obligingly informs me that the square earthen wall surrounding the
monastery of Erdenidsu, and measuring about an English mile in circumference, may well be the
very wall of ancient Karákorum."

Recent researches have fully confirmed the belief that the Erdeni Tso, or Eideni Chao, Monastery
occupies the site of Karákorum, near the bank of the Orkhon, between this river and the Kokchin
(old) Orkhon. (See map in Inscriptions de l'Orkhon, Helsingfors, 1892; a plan of the vicinity
and of the Erdeni Tso is given (plate 36) in W. Radloff's Atlas der Alterthümer der Mongolei,
St. Pet., 1892.)

According to a work of the 13th century quoted by the late Professor G. Devéria, the distance
between the old capital of the Uighúr, Kara Balgasún, on the left bank of the Orkhon, north
of Erdeni Tso, and the Ho-lin or Karákorum of the Mongols, would be 70 li (about 30 miles),
and such is the space between Erdeni Tso and Kara Balgasún. M. Marcel Monnier (Itinéraires,
p. 107) estimates the bird's-eye distance from Erdeni Tso to Kara Balgasún at 33 kilom. (about
20-1/2 miles). "When the brilliant epoch of the power of the Chinghizkhanides," says Professor
Axel Heikel, "was at an end, the city of Karákorum fell into oblivion, and towards the year
1590 was founded, in the centre of this historically celebrated region of the Orkhon, the most
ancient of Buddhist monasteries of Mongolia, this of Erdeni Tso [Erdeni Chao]. It was built,
according to a Mongol chronicle, on the ruins of the town built by Okkodaï, son of Chinghiz
Khan, that is to say, on the ancient Karákorum. (Inscriptions de l'Orkhon.)" So Professor Heikel,
like Professor Pozdneiev, concludes that Erdeni Tso was built on the site of Karákorum and
cannot be mistaken for Karabalgásun. Indeed it is highly probable that one of the walls of
the actual convent belonged to the old Mongol capital. The travels and researches by expeditions
from Finland and Russia have made these questions pretty clear. Some most interesting inscriptions
have been brought home and have been studied by a number of Orientalists: G. Schlegel, O. Donner,
G. Devéria, Vasiliev, G. von der Gabelentz, Dr. Hirth, G. Huth, E. H. Parker, W. Bang, etc.,
and especially Professor Vilh. Thomsen, of Copenhagen, who deciphered them (Déchiffrement des
Inscriptions de l'Orkhon et de l'Iénissei, Copenhague, 1894, 8vo; Inscriptions de l'Orkhon
déchiffrées, par V. Thomsen, Helsingfors, 1894, 8vo), and Professor W. Radloff of St. Petersburg
(Atlas der Alterthumer der Mongolei, 1892-6, fol.; Die alttürkischen Inschriften der Mongolei,
1894-7, etc.). There is an immense literature on these inscriptions, and for the bibliography,
I must refer the reader to H. Cordier, Etudes Chinoises (1891-1894), Leide, 1895, Id. (1895-1898),
Leide, 1898, 8vo. The initiator of these discoveries was N. Iarindsev, of Irkutsk, who died
at Barnaoul in 1894, and the first great expedition was started from Finland in 1890, under
the guidance of Professor Axel Heikel. (Inscriptions de l'Orkhon recueillies par l'expédition
finnoise, 1890, et publiées par la Société Finno-Ougrienne, Helsingfors, 1892, fol.) The Russian
expedition left the following year, 1891, under the direction of the Academician W. Radloff.

M. Chaffanjon (Nouv. Archiv. des Missions Scient. IX., 1899, p. 81), in 1895, does not appear
to know that there is a difference between Kará Korum and Kará Balgásun, as he writes: "Forty
kilometres south of Kara Korum or Kara Balgásun, the convent of Erdin Zoun."

A plan of Kara Balgásun is given (plate 27) in Radloff's Atlas. See also Henri Cordier et Gaubil,
Situation de Holin en Tartarie, Leide, 1893.

In Rubruquis's account of Karákorum there is one passage of great interest: "Then master William
[Guillaume L'Orfèvre] had made for us an iron to make wafers ... he made also a silver box
to put the body of Christ in, with relics in little cavities made in the sides of the box."
Now M. Marcel Monnier, who is one of the last, if not the last traveller who visited the region,
tells me that he found in the large temple of Erdeni Tso an iron (the cast bore a Latin cross;
had the wafer been Nestorian, the cross should have been Greek) and a silver box, which are
very likely the objects mentioned by Rubruquis. It is a new proof of the identity of the sites
of Erdeni Tso and Karákorum.--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--[Mr. Rockhill (Rubruck, 113, note) says: "The earliest date to which I have been able
to trace back the name Tartar is A.D. 732. We find mention made in a Turkish inscription found
on the river Orkhon and bearing that date, of the Tokuz Tatar, or 'Nine (tribes of) Tatars,'
and of the Otuz Tatar, or 'Thirty (tribes of) Tatars.' It is probable that these tribes were
then living between the Oguz or Uigúr Turks on the west, and the Kitan on the east. (Thomsen,
Inscriptions de l'Orkhon, 98, 126, 140.) Mr. Thos. Watters tells me that the Tartars are first
mentioned by the Chinese in the period extending from A.D. 860 to 874; the earliest mention
I have discovered, however, is under date of A.D. 880. (Wu tai shih, Bk. 4.) We also read in
the same work (Bk. 74, 2) that 'The Ta-ta were a branch of the Mo-ho (the name the Nû-chen
Tartars bore during the Sui and T'ang periods: Ma Tuan-lin, Bk. 327, 5). They first lived to
the north of the Kitan. Later on they were conquered by this people, when they scattered, a
part becoming tributaries of the Kitan, another to the P'o-hai (a branch of the Mo-ho), while
some bands took up their abode in the Yin Shan in Southern Mongolia, north of the provinces
of Chih-li and Shan-si, and took the name of Ta-ta.' In 981 the Chinese ambassador to the Prince
of Kao-chang (Karakhodjo, some 20 miles south-east of Turfan) traversed the Ta-ta country.
They then seem to have occupied the northern bend of the Yellow River. He gives the names of
some nine tribes of Ta-ta living on either side of the river. He notes that their neighbours
to the east were Kitan, and that for a long time they had been fighting them after the occupation
of Kan-chou by the Uigúrs. (Ma Tuan-lin, Bk. 336, 12-14.) We may gather from this that these
Tartars were already settled along the Yellow River and the Yin Shan (the valley in which is
now the important frontier mart of Kwei-hua Ch'eng) at the beginning of the ninth century,
for the Uigúrs, driven southward by the Kirghiz, first occupied Kan-chou in north-western Kan-suh,
somewhere about A.D. 842."]

NOTE 3.--CHORCHA (Ciorcia) is the Manchu country, whose people were at that time called by
the Chinese Yuché or Niuché, and by the Mongols Churché, or as it is in Sanang Setzen, Jurchid.
The country in question is several times mentioned by Rashiduddin as Churché. The founders
of the Kin Dynasty, which the Mongols superseded in Northern China, were of Churché race. [It
was part of Nayan's appanage. (See Bk. II. ch. v.)--H. C.]

NOTE 4.--The idea that a Christian potentate of enormous wealth and power, and bearing this
title, ruled over vast tracts in the far East, was universal in Europe from the middle of the
12th to the end of the 13th century, after which time the Asiatic story seems gradually to
have died away, whilst the Royal Presbyter was assigned to a locus in Abyssinia; the equivocal
application of the term India to the East of Asia and the East of Africa facilitating this
transfer. Indeed I have a suspicion, contrary to the view now generally taken, that the term
may from the first have belonged to the Abyssinian Prince, though circumstances led to its
being applied in another quarter for a time. It appears to me almost certain that the letter
of Pope Alexander III., preserved by R. Hoveden, and written in 1177 to the Magnificus Rex
Indorum, Sacerdotum sanctissimus, was meant for the King of Abyssinia.

Be that as it may, the inordinate report of Prester John's magnificence became especially diffused
from about the year 1165, when a letter full of the most extravagant details was circulated,
which purported to have been addressed by this potentate to the Greek Emperor Manuel, the Roman
Emperor Frederick, the Pope, and other Christian sovereigns. By the circulation of this letter,
glaring fiction as it is, the idea of this Christian Conqueror was planted deep in the mind
of Europe, and twined itself round every rumour of revolution in further Asia. Even when the
din of the conquests of Chinghiz began to be audible in the West, he was invested with the
character of a Christian King, and more or less confounded with the mysterious Prester John.

The first notice of a conquering Asiatic potentate so styled had been brought to Europe by
the Syrian Bishop of Gabala (Jibal, south of Laodicea in Northern Syria), who came, in 1145,
to lay various grievances before Pope Eugene III. He reported that not long before a certain
John, inhabiting the extreme East, king and Nestorian priest, and claiming descent from the
Three Wise Kings, had made war on the Samiard Kings of the Medes and Persians, and had taken
Ecbatana their capital. He was then proceeding to the deliverance of Jerusalem, but was stopped
by the Tigris, which he could not cross, and compelled by disease in his host to retire.

M. d'Avezac first showed to whom this account must apply, and the subject has more recently
been set forth with great completeness and learning by Dr. Gustavus Oppert. The conqueror in
question was the founder of Kara Khitai, which existed as a great Empire in Asia during the
last two-thirds of the 12th century. This chief was a prince of the Khitan dynasty of Liao,
who escaped with a body of followers from Northern China on the overthrow of that dynasty by
the Kin or Niuchen about 1125. He is called by the Chinese historians Yeliu Tashi; by Abulghazi,
Nuzi Taigri Ili; and by Rashiduddin, Nushi (or Fushi) Taifu. Being well received by the Uighúrs
and other tribes west of the Desert who had been subject to the Khitan Empire, he gathered
an army and commenced a course of conquest which eventually extended over Eastern and Western
Turkestan, including Khwarizm, which became tributary to him. He took the title of Gurkhan,
said to mean Universal or Suzerain Khan, and fixed at Bala Sagun, north of the Thian Shan,
the capital of his Empire, which became known as Kará (Black) Khitai.[1] [The dynasty being
named by the Chinese Si-Liao (Western Liao) lasted till it was destroyed in 1218.--H. C.] In
1141 he came to the aid of the King of Khwarizm against Sanjar the Seljukian sovereign of Persia
(whence the Samiard of the Syrian Bishop), who had just taken Samarkand, and defeated that
prince with great slaughter. Though the Gurkhan himself is not described to have extended his
conquests into Persia, the King of Khwarizm followed up the victory by an invasion of that
country, in which he plundered the treasury and cities of Sanjar.

Admitting this Karacathayan prince to be the first conqueror (in Asia, at all events) to whom
the name of Prester John was applied, it still remains obscure how that name arose. Oppert
supposes that Gurkhan or Kurkhan, softened in West Turkish pronunciation into Yurkan, was confounded
with Yochanan or Johannes; but he finds no evidence of the conqueror's profession of Christianity
except the fact, notable certainly, that the daughter of the last of his brief dynasty is recorded
to have been a Christian. Indeed, D'Ohsson says that the first Gurkhan was a Buddhist, though
on what authority is not clear. There seems a probability at least that it was an error in
the original ascription of Christianity to the Karacathayan prince, which caused the confusions
as to the identity of Prester John which appear in the next century, of which we shall presently
speak. Leaving this doubtful point, it has been plausibly suggested that the title of Presbyter
Johannes was connected with the legends of the immortality of John the Apostle ([Greek: ho
presbýteros], as he calls himself in the 2nd and 3rd epistles), and the belief referred to
by some of the Fathers that he would be the Forerunner of our Lord's second coming, as John
the Baptist had been of His first.

A new theory regarding the original Prester John has been propounded by Professor Bruun of
Odessa, in a Russian work entitled The Migrations of Prester John. The author has been good
enough to send me large extracts of this essay in (French) translation; and I will endeavour
to set forth the main points as well as the small space that can be given to the matter will
admit. Some remarks and notes shall be added, but I am not in a position to do justice to Professor
Bruun's views, from the want of access to some of his most important authorities, such as Brosset's
History of Georgia, and its appendices.

It will be well, before going further, to give the essential parts of the passage in the History
of Bishop Otto of Freisingen (referred to in vol i. p. 229), which contains the first allusion
to a personage styled Prester John:

"We saw also there [at Rome in 1145] the afore-mentioned Bishop of Gabala, from Syria.... We
heard him bewailing with tears the peril of the Church beyond-sea since the capture of Edessa,
and uttering his intention on that account to cross the Alps and seek aid from the King of
the Romans and the King of the Franks. He was also telling us how, not many years before, one
JOHN, KING and PRIEST, who dwells in the extreme Orient beyond Persia and Armenia, and is (with
his people) a Christian, but a Nestorian, had waged war against the brother Kings of the Persians
and Medes who are called the Samiards, and had captured Ecbatana, of which we have spoken above,
the seat of their dominion. The said Kings having met him with their forces made up of Persians,
Medes, and Assyrians, the battle had been maintained for 3 days, either side preferring death
to flight. But at last PRESBYTER JOHN (for so they are wont to style him), having routed the
Persians, came forth the victor from a most sanguinary battle. After this victory (he went
on to say) the aforesaid John was advancing to fight in aid of the Church at Jerusalem; but
when he arrived at the Tigris, and found there no possible means of transport for his army,
he turned northward, as he had heard that the river in that quarter was frozen over in winter-time.
Halting there for some years[2] in expectation of a frost, which never came, owing to the mildness
of the season, he lost many of his people through the unaccustomed climate, and was obliged
to return homewards. This personage is said to be of the ancient race of those Magi who are
mentioned in the Gospel, and to rule the same nations that they did, and to have such glory
and wealth that he uses (they say) only an emerald sceptre. It was (they say) from his being
fired by the example of his fathers, who came to adore Christ in the cradle, that he was proposing
to go to Jerusalem, when he was prevented by the cause already alleged."

Professor Bruun will not accept Oppert's explanation, which identifies this King and Priest
with the Gur-Khan of Karacathay, for whose profession of Christianity there is indeed (as has
been indicated--supra) no real evidence; who could not be said to have made an attack upon
any pair of brother Kings of the Persians and the Medes, nor to have captured Ecbatana (a city,
whatever its identity, of Media); who could never have had any intention of coming to Jerusalem;
and whose geographical position in no way suggested the mention of Armenia.

Professor Bruun thinks he finds a warrior much better answering to the indications in the Georgian
prince John Orbelian, the general-in-chief under several successive Kings of Georgia in that age.

At the time when the Gur-Khan defeated Sanjar the real brothers of the latter had been long
dead; Sanjar had withdrawn from interference with the affairs of Western Persia; and Hamadán
(if this is to be regarded as Ecbatana) was no residence of his. But it was the residence of
Sanjar's nephew Mas'úd, in whose hands was now the dominion of Western Persia; whilst Mas'úd's
nephew, Dáúd, held Media, i.e. Azerbeiján, Arrán, and Armenia. It is in these two princes that
Professor Bruun sees the Samiardi fratres of the German chronicler.

Again the expression "extreme Orient" is to be interpreted by local usage. And with the people
of Little Armenia, through whom probably such intelligence reached the Bishop of Gabala, the
expression the East signified specifically Great Armenia (which was then a part of the kingdom
of Georgia and Abkhasia), as Dulaurier has stated.[3]

It is true that the Georgians were not really Nestorians, but followers of the Greek Church.
It was the fact, however, that in general, the Armenians, whom the Greeks accused of following
the Jacobite errors, retorted upon members of the Greek Church with the reproach of the opposite
heresy of Nestorianism. And the attribution of Nestorianism to a Georgian Prince is, like the
expression "extreme East," an indication of the Armenian channel through which the story came.

The intention to march to the aid of the Christians in Palestine is more like the act of a
Georgian General than that of a Karacathayan Khan; and there are in the history of the Kingdom
of Jerusalem several indications of the proposal at least of Georgian assistance.

The personage in question is said to have come from the country of the Magi, from whom he was
descended. But these have frequently been supposed to come from Great Armenia. E.g. Friar Jordanus
says they came from Moghán.[4]

The name Ecbatana has been so variously applied that it was likely to lead to ambiguities.
But it so happens that, in a previous passage of his History, Bishop Otto of Freisingen, in
rehearsing some Oriental information gathered apparently from the same Bishop of Gabala, has
shown what was the place that he had been taught to identify with Ecbatana, viz. the old Armenian
city of ANI.[5] Now this city was captured from the Turks, on behalf of the King of Georgia,
David the Restorer, by his great sbasalar,[6] John Orbelian, in 1123-24.

Professor Bruun also lays stress upon a passage in a German chronicle of date some years later
than Otho's work:

"1141. Liupoldus dux Bawariorum obiit, Henrico fratre ejus succedente in ducatu. Iohannes Presbyter
Rex Armeniae et Indiae cum duobus regibus fratribus Persarum et Medorum pugnavit et vicit."[7]

He asks how the Gur-Khan of Karakhitai could be styled King of Armenia and of India? It may
be asked, per contra, how either the King of Georgia or his Peshwa (to use the Mahratta analogy
of John Orbelian's position) could be styled King of Armenia and of India? In reply to this,
Professor Bruun adduces a variety of quotations which he considers as showing that the term
India was applied to some Caucasian region.

My own conviction is that the report of Otto of Freisingen is not merely the first mention
of a great Asiatic potentate called Prester John, but that his statement is the whole and sole
basis of good faith on which the story of such a potentate rested; and I am quite as willing
to believe, on due evidence, that the nucleus of fact to which his statement referred, and
on which such a pile of long-enduring fiction was erected, occurred in Armenia as that it occurred
in Turan. Indeed in many respects the story would thus be more comprehensible. One cannot attach
any value to the quotation from the Annalist in Pertz, because there seems no reason to doubt
that the passage is a mere adaptation of the report by Bishop Otto, of whose work the Annalist
makes other use, as is indeed admitted by Professor Bruun, who (be it said) is a pattern of
candour in controversy. But much else that the Professor alleges is interesting and striking.
The fact that Azerbeijan and the adjoining regions were known as "the East" is patent to the
readers of this book in many a page, where the Khan and his Mongols in occupation of that region
are styled by Polo Lord of the LEVANT, Tartars of the LEVANT (i.e. of the East), even when
the speaker's standpoint is in far Cathay.[8] The mention of Aní as identical with the Ecbatana
of which Otto had heard is a remarkable circumstance which I think even Oppert has overlooked.
That this Georgian hero was a Christian and that his name was John are considerable facts.
Oppert's conversion of Korkhan into Yokhanan or John is anything but satisfactory. The identification
proposed again makes it quite intelligible how the so-called Prester John should have talked
about coming to the aid of the Crusaders; a point so difficult to explain on Oppert's theory,
that he has been obliged to introduce a duplicate John in the person of a Greek Emperor to
solve that knot; another of the weaker links in his argument. In fact, Professor Bruun's thesis
seems to me more than fairly successful in paving the way for the introduction of a Caucasian
Prester John; the barriers are removed, the carpets are spread, the trumpets sound royally--but
the conquering hero comes not!

He does very nearly come. The almost royal power and splendour of the Orbelians at this time
is on record: "They held the office of Sbasalar or Generalissimo of all Georgia. All the officers
of the King's Palace were under their authority. Besides that they had 12 standards of their
own, and under each standard 1000 warriors mustered. As the custom was for the King's flag
to be white and the pennon over it red, it was ruled that the Orpelian flag should be red and
the pennon white.... At banquets they alone had the right to couches whilst other princes had
cushions only. Their food was served on silver; and to them it belonged to crown the kings."[9]
Orpel Ivané, i.e. John Orbelian, Grand Sbasalar, was for years the pride of Georgia and the
hammer of the Turks. In 1123-1124 he wrested from them Tiflis and the whole country up to the
Araxes, including Ani, as we have said. His King David, the Restorer, bestowed on him large
additional domains from the new conquests; and the like brilliant service and career of conquest
was continued under David's sons and successors, Demetrius and George; his later achievements,
however, and some of the most brilliant, occurring after the date of the Bishop of Gabala's
visit to Rome. But still we hear of no actual conflict with the chief princes of the Seljukian
house, and of no event in his history so important as to account for his being made to play
the part of Presbyter Johannes in the story of the Bishop of Gabala. Professor Bruun's most
forcible observation in reference to this rather serious difficulty is that the historians
have transmitted to us extremely little detail concerning the reign of Demetrius II., and do
not even agree as to its duration. Carebat vate sacro: "It was," says Brosset, "long and glorious,
but it lacked a commemorator." If new facts can be alleged, the identity may still be proved.
But meantime the conquests of the Gur-Khan and his defeat of Sanjar, just at a time which suits
the story, are indubitable, and this great advantage Oppert's thesis retains. As regards the
claim to the title of Presbyter nothing worth mentioning is alleged on either side.

When the Mongol Conquests threw Asia open to Frank travellers in the middle of the 13th century,
their minds were full of Prester John; they sought in vain for an adequate representative,
but it was not in the nature of things but they should find some representative. In fact they
found several. Apparently no real tradition existed among the Eastern Christians of any such
personage, but the persistent demand produced a supply, and the honour of identification with
Prester John, after hovering over one head and another, settled finally upon that of the King
of the Keraits, whom we find to play the part in our text.

Thus in Plano Carpini's single mention of Prester John as the King of the Christians of India
the Greater, who defeats the Tartars by an elaborate stratagem, Oppert recognizes Sultan Jaláluddín
of Khwarizm and his temporary success over the Mongols in Afghanistan. In the Armenian Prince
Sempad's account, on the other hand, this Christian King of India is aided by the Tartars to
defeat and harass the neighbouring Saracens, his enemies, and becomes the Mongol's vassal.
In the statement of Rubruquis, though distinct reference is made to the conquering Gurkhan
(under the name of Coir Cham of Caracatay), the title of King John is assigned to the Naiman
Prince (Kushluk), who had married the daughter of the last lineal sovereign of Karakhitai,
and usurped his power, whilst, with a strange complication of confusion, UNC, Prince of the
Crit and Merkit (Kerait and Merkit, two great tribes of Mongolia)[10] and Lord of Karákorum,
is made the brother and successor of this Naiman Prince. His version of the story, as it proceeds,
has so much resemblance to Polo's, that we shall quote the words. The Crit and Merkit, he says,
were Nestorian Christians. "But their Lord had abandoned the worship of Christ to follow idols,
and kept by him those priests of the idols who are all devil-raisers and sorcerers. Beyond
his pastures, at the distance of ten or fifteen days' journey, were the pastures of the MOAL
(Mongol), who were a very poor people, without a leader and without any religion except sorceries
and divinations, such as all the people of those parts put so much faith in. Next to Moal was
another poor tribe called TARTAR. King John having died without an heir, his brother Unc got
his wealth, and caused himself to be proclaimed Cham, and sent out his flocks and herds even
to the borders of Moal. At that time there was a certain blacksmith called Chinghis among the
tribe of Moal, and he used to lift the cattle of Unc Chan as often as he had a chance, insomuch
that the herdsmen of Unc Chan made complaint to their master. The latter assembled an army,
and invaded the land of the Moal in search of Chinghis, but he fled and hid himself among the
Tartars. So Unc, having plundered the Moal and Tartars, returned home. And Chinghis addressed
the Tartars and Moal, saying: 'It is because we have no leader that we are thus oppressed by
our neighbours.' So both Tartars and Moal made Chinghis himself their leader and captain. And
having got a host quietly together, he made a sudden onslaught upon Unc and conquered him,
and compelled him to flee into Cathay. On that occasion his daughter was taken, and given by
Chinghis to one of his sons, to whom she bore Mangu, who now reigneth.... The land in which
they (the Mongols) first were, and where the residence of Chinghis still exists, is called
Onan Kerule.[11] But because Caracoran is in the country which was their first conquest, they
regard it as a royal city, and there hold the elections of their Chan."

Here we see plainly that the Unc Chan of Rubruquis is the Unc Can or Unecan of Polo. In the
narrative of the former, Unc is only connected with King or Prester John; in that of the latter,
rehearsing the story as heard some 20 or 25 years later, the two are identified. The shadowy
rôle of Prester John has passed from the Ruler of Kara Khitai to the Chief of the Keraits.
This transfer brings us to another history.

We have already spoken of the extensive diffusion of Nestorian Christianity in Asia during
the early and Middle Ages. The Christian historian Gregory Abulfaraj relates a curious history
of the conversion, in the beginning of the 11th century, of the King of Kerith with his people,
dwelling in the remote north-east of the land of the Turks. And that the Keraits continued
to profess Christianity down to the time of Chinghiz is attested by Rashiduddin's direct statement,
as well as by the numerous Christian princesses from that tribe of whom we hear in Mongol history.
It is the chief of this tribe of whom Rubruquis and Polo speak under the name of Unc Khan,
and whom the latter identifies with Prester John. His proper name is called Tuli by the Chinese,
and Togrul by the Persian historians, but the Kin sovereign of Northern China had conferred
on him the title of Wang or King, from which his people gave him the slightly corrupted cognomen
of [Arabic], which some scholars read Awang, and Avenk Khan, but which the spelling of Rubruquis
and Polo shows probably to have been pronounced as Aung or Ung Khan.[12] The circumstance stated
by Rubruquis of his having abandoned the profession of Christianity, is not alluded to by Eastern
writers; but in any case his career is not a credit to the Faith. I cannot find any satisfactory
corroboration of the claims of supremacy over the Mongols which Polo ascribes to Aung Khan.
But that his power and dignity were considerable, appears from the term Pádsháh which Rashiduddin
applies to him. He had at first obtained the sovereignty of the Keraits by the murder of two
of his brothers and several nephews. Yessugai, the father of Chinghiz, had been his staunch
friend, and had aided him effectually to recover his dominion from which he had been expelled.
After a reign of many years he was again ejected, and in the greatest necessity sought the
help of Temujin (afterwards called Chinghiz Khan), by whom he was treated with the greatest
consideration. This was in 1196. For some years the two chiefs conducted their forays in alliance,
but differences sprang up between them; the son of Aung Khan entered into a plot to kill Temujin,
and in 1202-1203 they were in open war. The result will be related in connection with the next
chapters.

We may observe that the idea which Joinville picked up in the East about Prester John corresponds
pretty closely with that set forth by Marco. Joinville represents him as one of the princes
to whom the Tartars were tributary in the days of their oppression, and as "their ancient enemy";
one of their first acts, on being organized under a king of their own, was to attack him and
conquer him, slaying all that bore arms, but sparing all monks and priests. The expression
used by Joinville in speaking of the original land of the Tartars, "une grande berrie de sablon,"
has not been elucidated in any edition that I have seen. It is the Arabic [Arabic] Bäríya,
"a Desert." No doubt Joinville learned the word in Palestine. (See Joinville, p. 143 seqq.;
see also Oppert, Der Presb. Johannes in Sage und Geschichte, and Cathay, etc., pp. 173-182.)
[Fried. Zarncke, Der Priester Johannes; Cordier, Odoric.--H. C.]

[1] A passage in Mirkhond extracted by Erdmann (Temudschín, p. 532)
    seems to make Bálá Sághún the same as Bishbálik, now Urumtsi, but this
    is inconsistent with other passages abstracted by Oppert (Presbyter
    Johan. 131-32); and Vámbéry indicates a reason for its being sought
    very much further west (H. of Bokhara, 116). [Dr. Bretschneider
    (Med. Res.) has a chapter on Kara-Khitaí (I. 208 seqq.) and in a
    long note on Bala Sagun, which he calls Belasagun, he says (p. 226)
    that "according to the Tarikh Djihan Kúshai (d'Ohsson, i. 433), the
    city of Belasagun had been founded by Buku Khan, sovereign of the
    Uigurs, in a well-watered plain of Turkestan with rich pastures. The
    Arabian geographers first mention Belasagun, in the ninth or tenth
    century, as a city beyond the Sihun or Yaxartes, depending on
    Isfidjab (Sairam, according to Lerch), and situated east of Taras.
    They state that the people of Turkestan considered Belasagun to
    represent 'the navel of the earth,' on account of its being situated
    in the middle between east and west, and likewise between north and
    south." (Sprenger's Poststr. d. Or., Mavarannahar). Dr.
    Bretschneider adds (p. 227): "It is not improbable that ancient
    Belasagun was situated at the same place where, according to the T'ang
    history, the Khan of one branch of the Western T'u Kue (Turks) had his
    residence in the seventh century. It is stated in the T'ang shu that
    Ibi Shabolo Shehu Khan, who reigned in the first half of the seventh
    century, placed his ordo on the northern border of the river Sui ye.
    This river, and a city of the same name, are frequently mentioned in
    the T'ang annals of the seventh and eighth centuries, in connection
    with the warlike expeditions of the Chinese in Central Asia. Sui ye
    was situated on the way from the river Ili to the city of Ta-lo-sz'
    (Talas). In 679 the Chinese had built on the Sui ye River a fortress;
    but in 748 they were constrained to destroy it." (Comp. Visdelou in
    Suppl. Bibl. Orient. pp. 110-114; Gaubil's Hist. de la Dyn. des
    Thang, in Mém. conc. Chin. xv. p. 403 seqq.).--H. C.]

[2] Sic: Per aliquot annos, but an evident error.

[3] J. As. sér. V. tom. xi. 449.

[4] The Great Plain on the Lower Araxes and Cyrus. The word Moghán =
    Magi: and Abulfeda quotes this as the etymology of the name.
    (Reinaud's Abulf. I. 300.)--Y. [Cordier, Odoric, 36.]

[5] Here is the passage, which is worth giving for more reasons than one:

    "That portion of ancient Babylon which is still occupied is (as we
    have heard from persons of character from beyond sea) styled BALDACH,
    whilst the part that lies, according to the prophecy, deserted and
    pathless extends some ten miles to the Tower of Babel The inhabited
    portion called Baldach is very large and populous; and though it
    should belong to the Persian monarchy it has been conceded by the
    Kings of the Persians to their High Priest, whom they call the
    Caliph; in order that in this also a certain analogy [quaedam
    habitudo] such as has been often remarked before, should be exhibited
    between Babylon and Rome. For the same (privilege) that here in the
    city of Rome has been made over to our chief Pontiff by the Christian
    Emperor, has there been conceded to their High Priest by the Pagan
    Kings of Persia, to whom Babylonia has for a long time been subject.
    But the Kings of the Persians (just as our Kings have their royal
    city, like Aachen) have themselves established the seat of their
    kingdom at Egbatana, which, in the Book of Judith, Arphaxat is said to
    have founded, and which in their tongue is called HANI, containing as
    they allege 100,000 or more fighting men, and have reserved to
    themselves nothing of Babylon except the nominal dominion. Finally,
    the place which is now vulgarly called Babylonia, as I have mentioned,
    is not upon the Euphrates (at all) as people suppose, but on the Nile,
    about 6 days' journey from Alexandria, and is the same as Memphis, to
    which Cambyses, the son of Cyrus, anciently gave the name of
    Babylon."--Ottonis Frising. Lib. VII. cap. 3, in Germanic Hist.
    Illust. etc. Christiani Urstisii Basiliensis, Francof. 1585.--Y.

[6] Sbasalar, or "General-in-chief," = Pers. Sipáhsálár.--Y.

[7] Continuatio Ann. Admutensium, in Pertz, Scriptores, IX. 580.

[8] E.g. ii. 42.

[9] St. Martin, Mém. sur l'Arménie, II. 77.

[10] ["The Keraits," says Mr. Rockhill (Rubruck, 111, note), "lived on
    the Orkhon and the Tula, south-east of Lake Baikal; Abulfaraj relates
    their conversion to Christianity in 1007 by the Nestorian Bishop of
    Merv. Rashideddin, however, says their conversion took place in the
    time of Chingis Khan. (D'Ohsson, I. 48; Chabot, Mar Jabalaha, III.
    14.) D'Avezac (536) identifies, with some plausibility, I think, the
    Keraits with the Kí-lê (or T'íeh-lê) of the early Chinese annals.
    The name K'í-lê was applied in the 3rd century A.D. to all the
    Turkish tribes, such as the Hui-hu (Uigúrs), Kieh-Ku (Kirghiz)
    Alans, etc., and they are said to be the same as the Kao-ch'ê, from
    whom descended the Cangle of Rubruck. (T'ang shu, Bk. 217, i.;
    Ma Tuan-lin, Bk. 344, 9, Bk. 347, 4.) As to the Merkits, or
    Merkites, they were a nomadic people of Turkish stock, with a possible
    infusion of Mongol blood. They are called by Mohammedan writers
    Uduyut, and were divided into four tribes. They lived on the Lower
    Selinga and its feeders. (D'Ohsson, i. 54; Howorth, History, I.,
    pt. i. 22, 698.)"--H. C.]

[11] [Onan Kerule is "the country watered by the Orkhon and Kerulun
    Rivers, i.e. the country to the south and south-east of Lake Baikal.
    The headquarters (ya-chang) of the principal chief of the Uigurs in
    the eighth century was 500 li (about 165 miles) south-west of the
    confluence of the Wen-Kun ho (Orkhon) and the Tu-lo ho (Tura). Its
    ruins, sometimes, but wrongly, confounded with those of the Mongol
    city of Karakorum, some 20 miles from it, built in 1235 by Ogodai, are
    now known by the name of Kara Balgasun, 'Black City.'" [See p. 228.]
    The name Onankerule seems to be taken from the form Onan-ou-
    Keloran, which occurs in Mohammedan writers. (Quatremère, 115 et
    seq.; see also T'ang shu, Bk. 43b; Rockhill, Rubruck, 116,
    note.)--H. C.]

[12] Vámbéry makes Ong an Uighúr word, signifying "right." [Palladius
    (l.c. 23) says: "The consonance of the names of Wang-Khan and Wang-Ku
    (Ung-Khan and Ongu--Ongot of Rashiduddin, a Turkish Tribe) led to the
    confusion regarding the tribes and persons, which at M. Polo's time
    seems to have been general among the Europeans in China; M. Polo and
    Johannes de Monte Corvino transfer the title of Prester John from
    Wang-Khan, already perished at that time, to the distinguished family
    of Wang-Ku."--H. C.]

CHAPTER XLVII.

OF CHINGHIS, AND HOW HE BECAME THE FIRST KAAN OF THE TARTARS.

Now it came to pass in the year of Christ's Incarnation 1187 that the Tartars made them a King
whose name was CHINGHIS KAAN.[NOTE 1] He was a man of great worth, and of great ability (eloquence),
and valour. And as soon as the news that he had been chosen King was spread abroad through
those countries, all the Tartars in the world came to him and owned him for their Lord. And
right well did he maintain the Sovereignty they had given him. What shall I say? The Tartars
gathered to him in astonishing multitude, and when he saw such numbers he made a great furniture
of spears and arrows and such other arms as they used, and set about the conquest of all those
regions till he had conquered eight provinces. When he conquered a province he did no harm
to the people or their property, but merely established some of his own men in the country
along with a proportion of theirs, whilst he led the remainder to the conquest of other provinces.
And when those whom he had conquered became aware how well and safely he protected them against
all others, and how they suffered no ill at his hands, and saw what a noble prince he was,
then they joined him heart and soul and became his devoted followers. And when he had thus
gathered such a multitude that they seemed to cover the earth, he began to think of conquering
a great part of the world. Now in the year of Christ 1200 he sent an embassy to Prester John,
and desired to have his daughter to wife. But when Prester John heard that Chinghis Kaan demanded
his daughter in marriage he waxed very wroth, and said to the Envoys, "What impudence is this,
to ask my daughter to wife! Wist he not well that he was my liegeman and serf? Get ye back
to him and tell him that I had liever set my daughter in the fire than give her in marriage
to him, and that he deserves death at my hand, rebel and traitor that he is!" So he bade the
Envoys begone at once, and never come into his presence again. The Envoys, on receiving this
reply, departed straightway, and made haste to their master, and related all that Prester John
had ordered them to say, keeping nothing back.[NOTE 2]

NOTE 1.--Temujin was born in the year 1155, according to all the Persian historians, who are
probably to be relied on; the Chinese put the event in 1162. 1187 does not appear to be a date
of special importance in his history. His inauguration as sovereign under the name of Chinghiz
Kaan was in 1202 according to the Persian authorities, in 1206 according to the Chinese.

In a preceding note (p. 236) we have quoted a passage in which Rubruquis calls Chinghiz "a
certain blacksmith." This mistaken notion seems to have originated in the resemblance of his
name Temújin to the Turki Temúrjí, a blacksmith; but it was common throughout Asia in the Middle
Ages, and the story is to be found not only in Rubruquis, but in the books of Hayton, the Armenian
prince, and of Ibn Batuta, the Moor. That cranky Orientalist, Dr. Isaac Jacob Schmidt, positively
reviles William Rubruquis, one of the most truthful and delightful of travellers, and certainly
not inferior to his critic in mother-wit, for adopting this story, and rebukes Timkowski--not
for adopting it, but for merely telling us the very interesting fact that the story was still,
in 1820, current in Mongolia. (Schmidt's San. Setz. 376, and Timkowski, I. 147.)

NOTE 2.--Several historians, among others Abulfaraj, represent Chinghiz as having married a
daughter of Aung Khan; and this is current among some of the mediaeval European writers, such
as Vincent of Beauvais. It is also adopted by Pétis de la Croix in his history of Chinghiz,
apparently from a comparatively late Turkish historian; and both D'Herbelot and St. Martin
state the same; but there seems to be no foundation for it in the best authorities: either
Persian or Chinese. (See Abulfaragius, p. 285; Speculum Historiale, Bk. XXIX. ch. lxix.; Hist.
of Genghiz Can, p. 29; and Golden Horde, pp. 61-62.) But there is a real story at the basis
of Polo's, which seems to be this: About 1202, when Aung Khan and Chinghiz were still acting
in professed alliance, a double union was proposed between Aung Khan's daughter Jaur Bigi and
Chinghiz's son Juji, and between Chinghiz's daughter Kijin Bigi and Togrul's grandson Kush
Buka. From certain circumstances this union fell through, and this was one of the circumstances
which opened the breach between the two chiefs. There were, however, several marriages between
the families. (Erdmann, 283; others are quoted under ch. lix., note 2.)

CHAPTER XLVIII.

HOW CHINGHIS MUSTERED HIS PEOPLE TO MARCH AGAINST PRESTER JOHN.

When Chinghis Kaan heard the brutal message that Prester John had sent him, such rage seized
him that his heart came nigh to bursting within him, for he was a man of a very lofty spirit.
At last he spoke, and that so loud that all who were present could hear him: "Never more might
he be prince if he took not revenge for the brutal message of Prester John, and such revenge
that insult never in this world was so dearly paid for. And before long Prester John should
know whether he were his serf or no!"

So then he mustered all his forces, and levied such a host as never before was seen or heard
of, sending word to Prester John to be on his defence. And when Prester John had sure tidings
that Chinghis was really coming against him with such a multitude, he still professed to treat
it as a jest and a trifle, for, quoth he, "these be no soldiers." Natheless he marshalled his
forces and mustered his people, and made great preparations, in order that if Chinghis did
come, he might take him and put him to death. In fact he marshalled such an host of many different
nations that it was a world's wonder.

And so both sides gat them ready to battle. And why should I make a long story of it? Chinghis
Kaan with all his host arrived at a vast and beautiful plain which was called Tanduc, belonging
to Prester John, and there he pitched his camp; and so great was the multitude of his people
that it was impossible to number them. And when he got tidings that Prester John was coming,
he rejoiced greatly, for the place afforded a fine and ample battle-ground, so he was right
glad to tarry for him there, and greatly longed for his arrival.

But now leave we Chinghis and his host, and let us return to Prester John and his people.

CHAPTER XLIX.

HOW PRESTER JOHN MARCHED TO MEET CHINGHIS.

Now the story goes that when Prester John became aware that Chinghis with his host was marching
against him, he went forth to meet him with all his forces, and advanced until he reached the
same plain of Tanduc, and pitched his camp over against that of Chinghis Kaan at a distance
of 20 miles. And then both armies remained at rest for two days that they might be fresher
and heartier for battle.[NOTE 1]

So when the two great hosts were pitched on the plains of Tanduc as you have heard, Chinghis
Kaan one day summoned before him his astrologers, both Christians and Saracens, and desired
them to let him know which of the two hosts would gain the battle, his own or Prester John's.
The Saracens tried to ascertain, but were unable to give a true answer; the Christians, however,
did give a true answer, and showed manifestly beforehand how the event should be. For they
got a cane and split it lengthwise, and laid one half on this side and one half on that, allowing
no one to touch the pieces. And one piece of cane they called Chinghis Kaan, and the other
piece they called Prester John. And then they said to Chinghis: "Now mark! and you will see
the event of the battle, and who shall have the best of it; for whose cane soever shall get
above the other, to him shall victory be." He replied that he would fain see it, and bade them
begin. Then the Christian astrologers read a Psalm out of the Psalter, and went through other
incantations. And lo! whilst all were beholding, the cane that bore the name of Chinghis Kaan,
without being touched by anybody, advanced to the other that bore the name of Prester John,
and got on the top of it. When the Prince saw that he was greatly delighted, and seeing how
in this matter he found the Christians to tell the truth, he always treated them with great
respect, and held them for men of truth for ever after.[NOTE 2]

NOTE 1.--Polo in the preceding chapter has stated that this plain of Tanduc was in Prester
John's country. He plainly regards it as identical with the Tanduc of which he speaks more
particularly in ch. lix. as belonging to Prester John's descendants, and which must be located
near the Chinese Wall. He is no doubt wrong in placing the battle there. Sanang Setzen puts
the battle between the two, the only one which he mentions, "at the outflow of the Onon near
Kulen Buira." The same action is placed by De Mailla's authorities at Calantschan, by P. Hyacinth
at Kharakchin Schatu, by Erdmann after Rashid in the vicinity of Hulun Barkat and Kalanchinalt,
which latter was on the borders of the Churché or Manchus. All this points to the vicinity
of Buir Nor and Hulan or Kalon Nor (though the Onon is far from these). But this was not the
final defeat of Aung Khan or Prester John, which took place some time later (in 1203) at a
place called the Chacher Ondur (or Heights), which Gaubil places between the Tula and the Kerulun,
therefore near the modern Urga. Aung Khan was wounded, and fled over the frontier of the Naiman;
the officers of that tribe seized and killed him. (Schmidt, 87, 383; Erdmann, 297; Gaubil, p. 10.)

NOTE 2.--A Tartar divination by twigs, but different from that here employed, is older than
Herodotus, who ascribes it to the Scythians. We hear of one something like the last among the
Alans, and (from Tacitus) among the Germans. The words of Hosea (iv. 12), "My people ask counsel
at their stocks, and their staff declareth unto them," are thus explained by Theophylactus:
"They stuck up a couple of sticks, whilst murmuring certain charms and incantations; the sticks
then, by the operation of devils, direct or indirect, would fall over, and the direction of
their fall was noted," etc. The Chinese method of divination comes still nearer to that in
the text. It is conducted by tossing in the air two symmetrical pieces of wood or bamboo of
a peculiar form. It is described by Mendoza, and more particularly, with illustrations, by
Doolittle.[1]

But Rubruquis would seem to have witnessed nearly the same process that Polo describes. He
reprehends the conjuring practices of the Nestorian priests among the Mongols, who seem to
have tried to rival the indigenous Káms or Medicine-men. Visiting the Lady Kuktai, a Christian
Queen of Mangu Kaan, who was ill, he says: "The Nestorians were repeating certain verses, I
know not what (they said it was part of a Psalm), over two twigs which were brought into contact
in the hands of two men. The monk stood by during the operation" (p. 326).[2] Pétis de la Croix
quotes from Thévenot's travels, a similar mode of divination as much used, before a fight,
among the Barbary corsairs. Two men sit on the deck facing one another and each holding two
arrows by the points, and hitching the notches of each pair of arrows into the other pair.
Then the ship's writer reads a certain Arabic formula, and it is pretended that whilst this
goes on, the two sets of arrows, of which one represents the Turks and the other the Christians,
struggle together in spite of the resistance of the holders, and finally one rises over the
other. This is perhaps the divination by arrows which is prohibited in the Koran. (Sura, V.
v. 92.) It is related by Abulfeda that Mahomed found in the Kaaba an image of Abraham with
such arrows in his hand.

P. della Valle describes the same process, conducted by a Mahomedan conjuror of Aleppo: "By
his incantations he made the four points of the arrows come together without any movement of
the holders, and by the way the points spontaneously placed themselves, obtained answers to
interrogatories."

And Mr. Jaeschke writes from Lahaul: "There are many different ways of divination practised
among the Buddhists; and that also mentioned by Marco Polo is known to our Lama, but in a slightly
different way, making use of two arrows instead of a cane split up, wherefore this kind is
called da-mo, 'Arrow-divination.'" Indeed the practice is not extinct in India, for in 1833
Mr. Vigne witnessed its application to detect the robber of a government chest at Lodiana.

As regards Chinghiz's respect for the Christians there are other stories. Abulfaragius has
one about Chinghiz seeing in a dream a religious person who promised him success. He told the
dream to his wife, Aung Khan's daughter, who said the description answered to that of the bishop
who used to visit her father. Chinghiz then inquired for a bishop among the Uighúr Christians
in his camp, and they indicated Mar Denha. Chinghiz thenceforward was milder towards the Christians,
and showed them many distinctions (p. 285). Vincent of Beauvais also speaks of Rabbanta, a
Nestorian monk, who lived in the confidence of Chinghiz's wife, daughter of "the Christian
King David or Prester John," and who used by divination to make many revelations to the Tartars.
We have already said that there seems no ground for assigning a daughter of Aung Khan as wife
to Chinghiz. But there was a niece of the former, named Abika, among the wives of Chinghiz.
And Rashiduddin does relate a dream of the Kaan's in relation to her. But it was to the effect
that he was divinely commanded to give her away; and this he did next morning!

(Rawlins. Herod. IV. 67; Amm. Marcell. XXXI. 2; Delvio, Disq. Magic. 558; Mendoza, Hak. Soc.
I. 47; Doolittle, 435-436; Hist. of Genghizcan, pp. 52-53; Preston's al-Hariri, p. 183; P.
della V. II. 865-866; Vigne, I. 46; D'Ohsson, I. 418-419).

[1] [On the Chinese divining-twig, see Dennys, Folk-lore of China,
    57.--H. C.]

[2] [With reference to this passage from Rubruck, Mr. Rockhill says
    (195, note): "The mode of divining here referred to is apparently the
    same as that described by Polo. It must not however be confounded with
    rabdomancy, in which bundles of wands or arrows were used." Ammianus
    Marcellinus (XXXI. 2. 350) says this mode of divination was practised
    by the Alans. "They have a singular way of divining: they take
    straight willow wands and make bundles of them, and on examining them
    at a certain time, with certain secret incantations, they know what is
    going to happen."--H. C.]

CHAPTER L.

THE BATTLE BETWEEN CHINGHIS KAAN AND PRESTER JOHN.

And after both sides had rested well those two days, they armed for the fight and engaged in
desperate combat; and it was the greatest battle that ever was seen. The numbers that were
slain on both sides were very great, but in the end Chinghis Kaan obtained the victory. And
in the battle Prester John was slain. And from that time forward, day by day, his kingdom passed
into the hands of Chinghis Kaan till the whole was conquered.

I may tell you that Chinghis Kaan reigned six years after this battle, engaged continually
in conquest, and taking many a province and city and stronghold. But at the end of those six
years he went against a certain castle that was called CAAJU, and there he was shot with an
arrow in the knee, so that he died of his wound. A great pity it was, for he was a valiant
man and a wise.[NOTE 1]

I will now tell you who reigned after Chinghis, and then about the manners and customs of the
Tartars.

NOTE 1.--Chinghiz in fact survived Aung Khan some 24 years, dying during his fifth expedition
against Tangut, 18th August 1227, aged 65 according to the Chinese accounts, 72 according to
the Persian. Sanang Setzen says that Kurbeljin Goa Khatún, the beautiful Queen of Tangut, who
had passed into the tents of the conqueror, did him some bodily mischief (it is not said what),
and then went and drowned herself in the Karamuren (or Hwang-ho), which thenceforth was called
by the Mongols the Khátún-gol, or Lady's River, a name which it in fact still bears. Carpini
relates that Chinghiz was killed by lightning. The Persian and Chinese historians, however,
agree in speaking of his death as natural. Gaubil calls the place of his death Lou-pan, which
he says was in lat. 38°. Rashiduddin calls it Leung-Shan, which appears to be the mountain
range still so called in the heart of Shensi.

The name of the place before which Polo represents him as mortally wounded is very variously
given. According to Gaubil, Chinghiz was in reality dangerously wounded by an arrow-shot at
the siege of Taitongfu in 1212. And it is possible, as Oppert suggests, that Polo's account
of his death before Caagiu (as I prefer the reading), arose out of a confusion between this
circumstance and those of the death of Mangku Kaan, which is said to have occurred at the assault
of Hochau in Sze-ch'uan, a name which Polo would write Caagiu, or nearly so. Abulfaragius specifically
says that Mangku Kaan died by an arrow; though it is true that other authors say he died of
disease, and Haiton that he was drowned; all which shows how excusable were Polo's errors as
to events occurring 50 to 100 years before his time. (See Oppert's Presbyter Johannes, p. 76;
De Mailla, IX. 275, and note; Gaubil, 18, 50, 52, 121; Erdmann, 443; Ss. Setzen, 103.)

It is only by referring back to ch. xlvii., where we are told that Chinghiz "began to think
of conquering a great part of the world," that we see Polo to have been really aware of the
vast extent and aim of the conquests of Chinghiz; the aim being literally the conquest of the
world as he conceived it; the extent of the empire which he initiated actually covering (probably)
one half of the whole number of the human race. (See remarks in Koeppen, Die Relig. des Buddha,
II. 86.)

CHAPTER LI.

OF THOSE WHO DID REIGN AFTER CHINGHIS KAAN, AND OF THE CUSTOMS OF THE TARTARS.

Now the next that reigned after Chinghis Kaan, their first Lord,[NOTE 1] was CUY KAAN, and
the third Prince was BATUY KAAN, and the fourth was ALACOU KAAN, the fifth MONGOU KAAN, the
sixth CUBLAY KAAN, who is the sovereign now reigning, and is more potent than any of the five
who went before him; in fact, if you were to take all those five together, they would not be
so powerful as he is.[NOTE 2] Nay, I will say yet more; for if you were to put together all
the Christians in the world, with their Emperors and their Kings, the whole of these Christians,--aye,
and throw in the Saracens to boot,--would not have such power, or be able to do so much as
this Cublay, who is the Lord of all the Tartars in the world, those of the Levant and of the
Ponent included; for these are all his liegemen and subjects. I mean to show you all about
this great power of his in this book of ours.

You should be told also that all the Grand Kaans, and all the descendants of Chinghis their
first Lord, are carried to a mountain that is called ALTAY to be interred. Wheresoever the
Sovereign may die, he is carried to his burial in that mountain with his predecessors; no matter
an the place of his death were 100 days' journey distant, thither must he be carried to his
burial.[NOTE 3]

Let me tell you a strange thing too. When they are carrying the body of any Emperor to be buried
with the others, the convoy that goes with the body doth put to the sword all whom they fall
in with on the road, saying: "Go and wait upon your Lord in the other world!" For they do in
sooth believe that all such as they slay in this manner do go to serve their Lord in the other
world. They do the same too with horses; for when the Emperor dies, they kill all his best
horses, in order that he may have the use of them in the other world, as they believe. And
I tell you as a certain truth, that when Mongou Kaan died, more than 20,000 persons, who chanced
to meet the body on its way, were slain in the manner I have told.[NOTE 4]

NOTE 1.--Before parting with Chinghiz let me point out what has not to my knowledge been suggested
before, that the name of "Cambuscan bold" in Chaucer's tale is only a corruption of the name
of Chinghiz. The name of the conqueror appears in Fr. Ricold as Camiuscan, from which the transition
to Cambuscan presents no difficulty. Camius was, I suppose, a clerical corruption out of Canjus
or Cianjus. In the chronicle of St. Antonino, however, we have him called "Chinghiscan rectius
Tamgius Cam" (XIX. c. 8). If this is not merely the usual blunder of t for c, it presents a
curious analogy to the form Tankiz Khán always used by Ibn Batuta. I do not know the origin
of the latter, unless it was suggested by tankis (Ar.) "Turning upside down." (See Pereg. Quat.,
p. 119; I. B. III. 22, etc.)

NOTE 2.--Polo's history here is inadmissible. He introduces into the list of the supreme Kaans
Batu, who was only Khan of Kipchak (the Golden Horde), and Hulaku who was Khan of Persia, whilst
he omits Okkodai, the immediate successor of Chinghiz. It is also remarkable that he uses the
form Alacou here instead of Alaü as elsewhere; nor does he seem to mean the same person, for
he was quite well aware that Alaü was Lord of the Levant, who sent ambassadors to the Great
Khan Cúbláy, and could not therefore be one of his predecessors. The real succession ran: 1.
Chinghiz; 2. Okkodai; 3. Kuyuk; 4. Mangku; 5. Kúblái.

There are quite as great errors in the history of Haiton, who had probably greater advantages
in this respect than Marco. And I may note that in Teixeira's abridgment of Mirkhond, Hulaku
is made to succeed Mangku Kaan on the throne of Chinghiz. (Relaciones, p. 338.)

NOTE 3.--The ALTAI here certainly does not mean the Great South Siberian Range to which the
name is now applied. Both Altai and Altun-Khan appear sometimes to be applied by Sanang Setzen
to the Khingan of the Chinese, or range running immediately north of the Great Wall near Kalgan.
(See ch. lxi. note I.) But in reference to this matter of the burial of Chinghiz, he describes
the place as "the district of Yekeh Utek, between the shady side of the Altai-Khan and the
sunny side of the Kentei-Khan." Now the Kentei-Khan (khan here meaning "mountain") is near
the sources of the Onon, immediately to the north-east of Urga; and Altai-Khan in this connection
cannot mean the hills near the Great Wall, 500 miles distant.

According to Rashiduddin, Chinghiz was buried at a place called Búrkán Káldún ("God's Hill"),
or Yekeh Kúrúk ("The Great Sacred or Tabooed Place"); in another passage he calls the spot
Búdah Undúr (which means, I fancy, the same as Búrkán Káldún), near the River Selenga. Búrkán
Kaldún is often mentioned by Sanang Setzen, and Quatremère seems to demonstrate the identity
of this place with the mountain called by Pallas (and Timkowski) Khanoolla. This is a lofty
mountain near Urga, covered with dense forest, and is indeed the first woody mountain reached
in travelling from Peking. It is still held sacred by the Mongols and guarded from access,
though the tradition of Chinghiz's grave seems to be extinct. Now, as this Khanoolla ("Mount
Royal," for khan here means "sovereign," and oolla "mountain") stands immediately to the south
of the Kentei mentioned in the quotation from S. Setzen, this identification agrees with his
statement, on the supposition that the Khanoolla is the Altai of the same quotation. The Khanoolla
must also be the Han mountain which Mongol chiefs claiming descent from Chinghiz named to Gaubil
as the burial-place of that conqueror. Note that the Khanoolla, which we suppose to be the
Altai of Polo, and here of Sanang Setzen, belongs to a range known as Khingan, whilst we see
that Setzen elsewhere applies Altai and Altan-Khan to the other Khingan near the Great Wall.

Erdmann relates, apparently after Rashiduddin, that Chinghiz was buried at the foot of a tree
which had taken his fancy on a hunting expedition, and which he had then pointed out as the
place where he desired to be interred. It was then conspicuous, but afterwards the adjoining
trees shot up so rapidly, that a dense wood covered the whole locality, and it became impossible
to identify the spot. (Q. R. 117 seqq.; Timk. I. 115 seqq., II. 475-476; San. Setz. 103, 114-115,
108-109; Gaubil, 54; Erd. 444.)

["There are no accurate indications," says Palladius (l.c. pp. 11-13), "in the documents of
the Mongol period on the burial-places of Chingiz Khan and of the Khans who succeeded him.
The Yuan-shi or 'History of the Mongol Dynasty in China,' in speaking of the burial of the
Khans, mentions only that they used to be conveyed from Peking to the north, to their common
burial-ground in the K'i-lien Valley. This name cannot have anything in common with the ancient
K'i-lien of the Hiung-nu, a hill situated to the west of the Mongol desert; the K'i-lien of
the Mongols is to be sought more to the east. When Khubilai marched out against Prince Nayan,
and reached the modern Talnor, news was received of the occupation of the Khan's burial-ground
by the rebels. They held out there very long, which exceedingly afflicted Khubilai [Yuan shi
lui pien]; and this goes to prove that the tombs could not be situated much to the west. Some
more positive information on this subject is found in the diary of the campaign in Mongolia
in 1410, of the Ming Emperor Yung-lo [Pe ching lu]. He reached the Kerulen at the place where
this river, after running south, takes an easterly direction. The author of the diary notes,
that from a place one march and a half before reaching the Kerulen, a very large mountain was
visible to the north-east, and at its foot a solitary high and pointed hillock, covered with
stones. The author says, that the sovereigns of the house of Yuan used to be buried near this
hill. It may therefore be plausibly supposed that the tombs of the Mongol Khans were near the
Kerulen, and that the 'K'i-lien' of the Yuan shi is to be applied to this locality; it seems
to me even, that K'i-lien is an abbreviation, customary to Chinese authors, of Kerulen. The
way of burying the Mongol Khans is described in the Yuan shi (ch. 'On the national religious
rites of the Mongols'), as well as in the Ch'ue keng lu, 'Memoirs of the time of the Yuan Dynasty.'
When burying, the greatest care was taken to conceal from outside people the knowledge of the
locality of the tomb. With this object in view, after the tomb was closed, a drove of horses
was driven over it, and by this means the ground was, for a considerable distance, trampled
down and levelled. It is added to this (probably from hearsay) in the Ts'ao mu tze Memoirs
(also of the time of the Yuan Dynasty), that a young camel used to be killed (in the presence
of its mother) on the tomb of the deceased Khan; afterwards, when the time of the usual offerings
of the tomb approached, the mother of this immolated camel was set at liberty, and she came
crying to the place where it was killed; the locality of the tomb was ascertained in this way."

The Archimandrite Palladius adds in a footnote: "Our well-known Mongolist N. Golovkin has told
us, that according to a story actually current among the Mongols, the tombs of the former Mongol
Khans are situated near Tasola Hill, equally in the vicinity of the Kerulen. He states also
that even now the Mongols are accustomed to assemble on that hill on the seventh day of the
seventh moon (according to an ancient custom), in order to adore Chingiz Khan's tomb. Altan
tobchi (translated into Russian by Galsan Gomboeff), in relating the history of the Mongols
after their expulsion from China, and speaking of the Khans' tombs, calls them Naiman tzagan
gher, i.e. 'Eight White Tents' (according to the number of chambers for the souls of the chief
deceased Khans in Peking), and sometimes simply Tzagan gher, 'the White Tent,' which, according
to the translator's explanation, denotes only Chingiz Khan's tomb."

"According to the Chinese Annals (T'ung kien kang mu), quoted by Dr. E. Bretschneider (Med.
Res. I. p. 157), Chinghiz died near the Liu p'an shan in 1227, after having subdued the Tangut
empire. On modern Chinese maps Liu p'an shan is marked south of the city of Ku yüan chou, department
of P'ing liang, in Kan suh. The Yüan shí however, implies that he died in Northern Mongolia.
We read there, in the annals, s.a. 1227, that in the fifth intercalary month the Emperor moved
to the mountain Liu p'an shan in order to avoid the heat of the summer. In the sixth month
the empire of the Hia (Tangut) submitted. Chinghiz rested on the river Si Kiang in the district
of Ts'ing shui (in Kansuh; it has still the same name). In autumn, in the seventh month (August),
on the day jen wu, the Emperor fell ill, and eight days later died in his palace Ha-lao-t'u
on the River Sa-li. This river Sali is repeatedly mentioned in the Yüan shi, viz. in the first
chapter, in connection with the first military doings of Chinghiz. Rashid reports (D'Ohsson,
I. 58) that Chinghiz in 1199 retired to his residence Sari Kihar. The Yüan chao pi shi (Palladius'
transl., 81) writes the same name Saari Keher (Keher in modern Mongol means 'a plain'). On
the ancient map of Mongolia found in the Yüan shi lei pien, Sa-li K'ie-rh is marked south of
the river Wa-nan (the Onon of our maps), and close to Sa-li K'ie-rh we read: 'Here was the
original abode of the Yüan' (Mongols). Thus it seems the passage in the Yüan history translated
above intimates that Chinghiz died in Mongolia, and not near the Liu p'an shan, as is generally
believed. The Yüan ch'ao pi shi (Palladius' transl., 152) and the 'Ts'in cheng lu (Palladius'
transl., 195) both agree in stating that, after subduing the Tangut empire, Chinghiz returned
home, and then died.

We now come to the Mongol tradition, which places the tomb of Chinghiz in the country of the
Ordos, in the great bend of the Yellow River.

Two Belgian missionaries, MM. de Vos and Verlinden, who visited the tomb of Chinghiz Khan,
say that before the Mahomedan invasion, on a hill a few feet high, there were two courtyards,
one in front of the other, surrounded by palisades. In the second courtyard, there were a building
like a Chinese dwelling-house and six tents. In a double tent are kept the remains of the bokta
(the Holy). The neighbouring tents contained various precious objects, such as a gold saddle,
dishes, drinking-cups, a tripod, a kettle, and many other utensils, all in solid silver. (Missions
Catholiques, No. 315, 18th June, 1875.)--This periodical gives (p. 293) a sketch of the tomb
of the Conqueror, according to the account of the two missionaries.

Prjevalsky (Mongolia and Tangut) relates the story of the Khatún Gol (see supra, p. 245), and
says that her tomb is situated at 11 versts north-east of lake of Dzaïdemin Nor, and is called
by the Mongols Tumir-Alku, and by the Chinese Djiou-Djin Fu; one of the legends mentioned by
the Russian traveller gives the Ordo country as the burial-place of Chinghiz, 200 versts south
of lake Dabasun Nor; the remains are kept in two coffins, one of wood, the other of silver;
the Khan prophesied that after eight or ten centuries he would come to life again and fight
the Emperor of China, and being victorious, would take the Mongols from the Ordos back to their
country of Khalka; Prjevalsky did not see the tomb, nor did Potanin.

"Their holiest place [of the Mongols of Ordos] is a collection of felt tents called 'Edjen-joro,'
reputed to contain the bones of Jenghiz Khan. These sacred relics are entrusted to the care
of a caste of Darhats, numbering some fifty families. Every summer, on the twenty-first day
of the sixth moon, sacrifices are offered up in his honour, when numbers of people congregate
to join in the celebration, such gatherings being called táilgan." On the southern border of
the Ordos are the ruins of Boro-balgasun [Grey town], said to date from Jenghiz Khan's time.
(Potanin, Proc. R. G. S. IX. 1887, p. 233.)

The last traveller who visited the tomb of Chinghiz is M. C. E. Bonin, in July 1896; he was
then on the banks of the Yellow River in the northern part of the Ordo country, which is exclusively
inhabited by nomadic and pastoral Mongols, forming seven tribes or hords, Djungar, Talat, Wan,
Ottok, Djassak, Wushun and Hangkin, among which are eastward the Djungar and in the centre
the Wan; according to their own tradition, these tribes descend from the seven armies encamped
in the country at the time of Chinghiz's death; the King of Djungar was 67 years of age, and
was the chief of all the tribes, being considered the 37th descendant of the conqueror in a
direct line. His predecessor was the Wushun Wang. M. Bonin gives (Revue de Paris, 15th February
1898) the following description of the tomb and of the country surrounding it. Between the
yamen (palace) of the King (Wang) of Djungar and the tomb of Chinghiz-Khan, there are five
or six marches made difficult by the sands of the Gobi, but horses and camels may be used for
the journey. The road, southward through the desert, passes near the great lama-monastery called
Barong-tsao or Si-tsao (Monastery of the West), and in Chinese San-t'ang sse (Three Temples).
This celebrated monastery was built by the King of Djungar to hold the tablets of his ancestors--on
the ruins of an old temple, said to have been erected by Chinghiz himself. More than a thousand
lamas are registered there, forty of them live at the expense of the Emperor of China. Crossing
afterwards the two upper branches of the Ulan Múren (Red River) on the banks of which Chinghiz
was murdered, according to local tradition, close to the lake of Chahan Nor (White Lake), near
which are the tents of the Prince of Wan, one arrives at last at the spot called Yeke-Etjen-Koro,
in Mongol: the abode of the Great Lord, where the tomb is to be found. It is erected to the
south-east of the village, comprising some twenty tents or tent-like huts built of earth. Two
large white felt tents, placed side by side, similar to the tents of the modern Mongols, but
much larger, cover the tomb; a red curtain, when drawn, discloses the large and low silver
coffin, which contains the ashes of the Emperor, placed on the ground of the second tent; it
is shaped like a big trunk, with great rosaces engraved upon it. The Emperor, according to
local tradition, was cremated on the bank of the Ulan Muren, where he is supposed to have been
slain. On the twenty-first day of the third moon the anniversary fête of Mongolia takes place;
on this day of the year only are the two mortuary tents opened, and the coffin is exhibited
to be venerated by people coming from all parts of Mongolia. Many other relics, dispersed all
over the Ordo land, are brought thither on this occasion; these relics called in Mongol Chinghiz
Bogdo (Sacred remains of Chinghiz) number ten; they are in the order adopted by the Mongols:
the saddle of Chinghiz, hidden in the Wan territory; the bow, kept at a place named Hu-ki-ta-lao
Hei, near Yeke Etjen-Koro; the remains of his war-horse, called Antegan-tsegun (more), preserved
at Kebere in the Djungar territory; a fire-arm kept in the palace of the King of Djungar; a
wooden and leather vase called Pao-lao-antri, kept at the place Shien-ni-chente; a wax figure
containing the ashes of the Khan's equerry, called Altaqua-tosu, kept at Ottok (one of the
seven tribes); the remains of the second wife, who lay at Kiasa, on the banks of the Yellow
River, at a place called on Prjevalsky's map in Chinese Djiou-Djin-fu, and in Mongol Tumir-Alku;
the tomb of the third wife of Chinghiz, who killed him, and lay to-day at Bagha-Ejen-Koro,
"the abode of the little Sovereign," at a day's march to the south of the Djungar King's palace;
the very tomb of Yeke-Etjen-Koro, which is supposed to contain also the ashes of the first
wife of the Khan; and last, his great standard, a black wood spear planted in the desert, more
than 150 miles to the south of the tomb; the iron of it never gets rusty; no one dares touch
it, and therefore it is not carried to Yeke-Etjen-Koro with the other relics for the yearly
festival. (See also Rockhill, Diary, p. 29.) --H. C.]

NOTE 4.--Rashiduddin relates that the escort, in carrying Chinghiz to his burial, slew all
whom they met, and that forty noble and beautiful girls were despatched to serve him in the
other world, as well as superb horses. As Mangku Kaan died in the heart of China, any attempt
to carry out the barbarous rule in his case would involve great slaughter. (Erd. 443; D'Ohsson,
I. 381, II. 13; and see Cathay, 507-508.)

Sanang Setzen ignores these barbarities. He describes the body of Chinghiz as removed to his
native land on a two-wheeled waggon, the whole host escorting it, and wailing as they went:
"And Kiluken Bahadur of the Sunid Tribe (one of the Khan's old comrades) lifted up his voice
and sang--

  'Whilom Thou didst swoop like a Falcon: A rumbling waggon now
      trundles thee off:
                                  O My King!
  Hast thou in truth then forsaken thy wife and thy children
      and the Diet of thy People?
                                  O My King!
  Circling in pride like an Eagle whilom Thou didst lead us,
                                  O My King!
  But now Thou hast stumbled and fallen, like an unbroken Colt,
                                  O My King!'" (p. 108.)

["The burying of living men with the dead was a general custom with the tribes of Eastern Asia.
Favourite servants and wives were usually buried in this way. In China, the chief wives and
those concubines who had already borne children, were exempted from this lot. The Tunguz and
other tribes were accustomed to kill the selected victims by strangulation. In China they used
to be buried alive; but the custom of burying living men ceased in A.D. 1464. [Hwang ming ts'ung
sin lu.] In the time of the present Manchu Dynasty, the burying of living men was prohibited
by the Emperor Kang-hi, at the close of the 17th century, i.e. the forced burying; but voluntary
sepulture remained in force [Yu chi wen]. Notwithstanding this prohibition, cases of forced
burying occurred again in remote parts of Manchuria; when a concubine refused to follow her
deceased master, she was forcibly strangled with a bow-string [Ninguta chi]. I must observe,
however, that there is no mention made in historical documents of the existence of this custom
with the Mongols; it is only an hypothesis based on the analogy between the religious ideas
and customs of the Mongols and those of other tribes." (Palladius, p. 13.)

In his Religious System of China, II., Dr. J. J. M. de Groot devotes a whole chapter (ix. 721
seqq.), Concerning the Sacrifice of Human Beings at Burials, and Usages connected therewith.
The oldest case on record in China dates as far back as B.C. 677, when sixty-six men were killed
after the ruler Wu of the state of Ts'in died.

The Official Annals of the Tartar Dynasty of Liao, quoted by Professor J. J. M. de Groot (Religious
System of China, vol. ii. 698), state that "in the tenth year of the T'ung hwo period (A.D.
692) the killing of horses for funeral and burial rites was interdicted, as also the putting
into the tombs of coats of mail, helmets, and articles and trinkets of gold and silver." Professor
de Groot writes (l.c. 709): "But, just as the placing of victuals in the graves was at an early
date changed into sacrifices of food outside the graves, so burying horses with the dead was
also modified under the Han Dynasty into presenting them to the dead without interring them,
and valueless counterfeits were on such occasions substituted for the real animals."--H. C.]

CHAPTER LII.

CONCERNING THE CUSTOMS OF THE TARTARS.

Now that we have begun to speak of the Tartars, I have plenty to tell you on that subject.
The Tartar custom is to spend the winter in warm plains, where they find good pasture for their
cattle, whilst in summer they betake themselves to a cool climate among the mountains and valleys,
where water is to be found as well as woods and pastures.

Their houses are circular, and are made of wands covered with felts.[NOTE 1] These are carried
along with them whithersoever they go; for the wands are so strongly bound together, and likewise
so well combined, that the frame can be made very light. Whenever they erect these huts the
door is always to the south. They also have waggons covered with black felt so efficaciously
that no rain can get in. These are drawn by oxen and camels, and the women and children travel
in them.[NOTE 2] The women do the buying and selling, and whatever is necessary to provide
for the husband and household; for the men all lead the life of gentlemen, troubling themselves
about nothing but hunting and hawking, and looking after their goshawks and falcons, unless
it be the practice of warlike exercises.

They are very careful not to meddle with each other's wives, and will not do so on any account,
holding that to be an evil and abominable thing. The women too are very good and loyal to their
husbands, and notable housewives withal.[NOTE 4] [Ten or twenty of them will dwell together
in charming peace and unity, nor shall you ever hear an ill word among them.]

The marriage customs of Tartars are as follows. Any man may take a hundred wives an he so please,
and if he be able to keep them. But the first wife is ever held most in honour, and as the
most legitimate [and the same applies to the sons whom she may bear]. The husband gives a marriage
payment to his wife's mother, and the wife brings nothing to her husband. They have more children
than other people, because they have so many wives. They may marry their cousins, and if a
father dies, his son may take any of the wives, his own mother always excepted; that is to
say the eldest son may do this, but no other. A man may also take the wife of his own brother
after the latter's death. Their weddings are celebrated with great ado.[NOTE 5]

NOTE 1.--The word here in the G. T. is "fennes," which seems usually to mean ropes, and in
fact Pauthier's text reads: "Il ont mesons de verges et les cueuvrent de cordes." Ramusio's
text has feltroni, and both Muller and the Latin of the S. G. have filtro. This is certainly
the right reading. But whether fennes was ever used as a form of feltres (as pennes means peltry)
I cannot discover. Perhaps some words have dropped out. A good description of a Kirghiz hut
(35 feet in diameter), and exactly corresponding to Polo's account, will be found in Atkinson's
Siberia, and another in Vámbéry's Travels. How comfortable and civilised the aspect of such
a hut may be, can be seen also in Burnes's account of a Turkoman dwelling of this kind. This
description of hut or tent is common to nearly all the nomade tribes of Central Asia. The trellis-work
forming the skeleton of the tent-walls is (at least among the Turkomans) loosely pivoted, so
as to draw out and compress like "lazy-tongs."

Rubruquis, Pallas, Timkowski, and others, notice the custom of turning the door to the south;
the reason is obvious. (Atkinson, 285; Vámb. 316; Burnes, III. 51; Conolly, I. 96) But throughout
the Altai, Mr. Ney Elias informs me, K'alkas, Kirghiz, and Kalmaks all pitch their tents facing
east. The prevailing winter wind is there westerly.

[Mr. Rockhill (Rubruck, p. 56, note) says that he has often seen Mongol tents facing east and
south-east. He adds: "It is interesting to find it noted in the Chou Shu (Bk. 50, 3) that the
Khan of the Turks, who lived always on the Tu-kin mountains, had his tent invariably facing
south, so as to show reverence to the sun's rising place."--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--Aeschylus already knows the

               "wandering Scyths who dwell
  In latticed huts high-poised on easy wheels."
      (Prom. Vinct. 709-710.)

And long before him Hesiod says Phineus was carried by the Harpies--

  "To the Land of the Milk-fed nations, whose houses are waggons."
      (Strabo, vii. 3-9.)

Ibn Batuta describes the Tartar waggon in which he travelled to Sarai as mounted on four great
wheels, and drawn by two or more horses:--

"On the waggon is put a sort of pavilion of wands laced together with narrow thongs. It is
very light, and is covered with felt or cloth, and has latticed windows, so that the person
inside can look out without being seen. He can change his position at pleasure, sleeping or
eating, reading or writing, during the journey." These waggons were sometimes of enormous size.
Rubruquis declares that he measured between the wheel-tracks of one and found the interval
to be 20 feet. The axle was like a ship's mast, and twenty-two oxen were yoked to the waggon,
eleven abreast. (See opposite cut.) He describes the huts as not usually taken to pieces, but
carried all standing. The waggon just mentioned carried a hut of 30 feet diameter, for it projected
beyond the wheels at least 5 feet on either side. In fact, Carpini says explicitly, "Some of
the huts are speedily taken to pieces and put up again; such are packed on the beasts. Others
cannot be taken to pieces, but are carried bodily on the waggons. To carry the smaller tents
on a waggon one ox may serve; for the larger ones three oxen or four, or even more, according
to the size." The carts that were used to transport the Tartar valuables were covered with
felt soaked in tallow or ewe's milk, to make them waterproof. The tilts of these were rectangular,
in the form of a large trunk. The carts used in Kashgar, as described by Mr. Shaw, seem to
resemble these latter. (I. B. II. 381-382; Rub. 221; Carp. (Bk. IV. ch. 46, p. 41, Rawlins.)
Scythian prisoners in their waggons are represented on the Column of Theodosius at Constantinople;
but it is difficult to believe that these waggons, at least as figured in Banduri, have any
really Scythian character.

It is a curious fact that the practice of carrying these yurts or felt tents upon waggons appears
to be entirely obsolete in Mongolia. Mr. Ney Elias writes: "I frequently showed your picture
[that opposite] to Mongols, Chinese, and Russian border-traders, but none had ever seen anything
of the kind. The only cart I have ever seen used by Mongols is a little low, light, roughly-made
bullock-dray, certainly of Chinese importation." The old system would, however, appear to have
been kept up to our own times by the Nogai Tartars, near the Sea of Azof. (See note from Heber,
in Clark's Travels, 8vo ed. I. 440, and Dr. Clark's vignette at p. 394 in the same volume.)

NOTE 3.--Pharaoh's Rat was properly the Gerboa of Arabia and North Africa, which the Arabs
also regard as a dainty. There is a kindred animal in Siberia, called Alactaga, and a kind
of Kangaroo-rat (probably the same) is mentioned as very abundant on the Mongolian Steppe.
There is also the Zieselmaus of Pallas, a Dormouse, I believe, which he says the Kalmaks, even
of distinction, count a delicacy, especially cooked in sour milk. "They eat not only the flesh
of all their different kinds of cattle, including horses and camels, but also that of many
wild animals which other nations eschew, e.g. marmots and zieselmice, beavers, badgers, otters,
and lynxes, leaving none untouched except the dog and weasel kind, and also (unless very hard
pressed) the flesh of the fox and the wolf." (Pallas, Samml. I. 128; also Rubr. 229-230.)

["In the Mongol biography of Chinghiz Khan (Mongol text of the Yuan ch'ao pi shi), mention
is made of two kinds of animals (mice) used for food; the tarbagat (Aritomys Bobac) and kuchugur."
(Palladius, l.c. p. 14.) Regarding the marmots called Sogur by Rubruquis, Mr. Rockhill writes
(p. 69): "Probably the Mus citillus, the Suslik of the Russians.... M. Grenard tells me that
Soghur, more usually written sour in Turki, is the ordinary name of the marmot."--H. C.]

NOTE 4.--"Their wives are chaste; nor does one ever hear any talk of their immodesty," says
Carpini;--no Boccaccian and Chaucerian stories.

NOTE 5.--"The Mongols are not prohibited from having a plurality of wives; the first manages
the domestic concerns, and is the most respected." (Timk. II. 310.) Naturally Polygamy is not
so general among the Mongols as when Asia lay at their feet. The Buraets, who seem to retain
the old Mongol customs in great completeness, are polygamists, and have as many wives as they
choose. Polygamy is also very prevalent among the Yakuts, whose lineage seems to be Eastern
Turk. (Ritter, III. 125; Erman, II. 346.)

Of the custom that entitled the son on succeeding to take such as he pleased of his deceased
father's wives, we have had some illustration (see Prologue, ch. xvii. note 2), and many instances
will be found in Hammer's or other Mongol Histories. The same custom seems to be ascribed by
Herodotus to the Scyths (IV. 78). A number of citations regarding the practice are given by
Quatremère. (Q. R. p. 92.) A modern Mongol writer in the Mélanges Asiatiques of the Petersburg
Academy, states that the custom of taking a deceased brother's wives is now obsolete, but that
a proverb preserves its memory (II. 656). It is the custom of some Mahomedan nations, notably
of the Afghans, and is one of those points that have been cited as a supposed proof of their
Hebrew lineage.

"The Kalin is a present which the Bridegroom or his parents make to the parents of the Bride.
All the Pagan nations of Siberia have this custom; they differ only in what constitutes the
present, whether money or cattle." (Gmelin, I. 29; see also Erman, II. 348.)

CHAPTER LIII.

CONCERNING THE GOD OF THE TARTARS.

This is the fashion of their religion. [They say there is a Most High God of Heaven, whom they
worship daily with thurible and incense, but they pray to Him only for health of mind and body.
But] they have [also] a certain [other] god of theirs called NATIGAY, and they say he is the
god of the Earth, who watches over their children, cattle, and crops. They show him great worship
and honour, and every man hath a figure of him in his house, made of felt and cloth; and they
also make in the same manner images of his wife and children. The wife they put on the left
hand, and the children in front. And when they eat, they take the fat of the meat and grease
the god's mouth withal, as well as the mouths of his wife and children. Then they take of the
broth and sprinkle it before the door of the house; and that done, they deem that their god
and his family have had their share of the dinner.[NOTE 1]

Their drink is mare's milk, prepared in such a way that you would take it for white wine; and
a right good drink it is, called by them Kemiz.[NOTE 2]

The clothes of the wealthy Tartars are for the most part of gold and silk stuffs, lined with
costly furs, such as sable and ermine, vair and fox-skin, in the richest fashion.

NOTE 1.--There is no reference here to Buddhism, which was then of recent introduction among
the Mongols; indeed, at the end of the chapter, Polo speaks of their new adoption of the Chinese
idolatry, i.e. Buddhism. We may add here that the Buddhism of the Mongols decayed and became
practically extinct after their expulsion from China (1368-1369). The old Shamanism then apparently
revived; nor was it till 1577 that the great reconversion of Mongolia to Lamaism began. This
reconversion is the most prominent event in the Mongol history of Sanang Setzen, whose great-grandfather
Khutuktai Setzen, Prince of the Ordos, was a chief agent in the movement.

The Supreme Good Spirit appears to have been called by the Mongols Tengri (Heaven), and Khormuzda,
and is identified by Schmidt with the Persian Hormuzd. In Buddhist times he became identified
with Indra.

Plano Carpini's account of this matter is very like Marco's: "They believe in one God, the
Maker of all things, visible and invisible, and the Distributor of good and evil in this world;
but they worship Him not with prayers or praises or any kind of service. Natheless, they have
certain idols of felt, imitating the human face, and having underneath the face something resembling
teats; these they place on either side of the door. These they believe to be the guardians
of the flocks, from whom they have the boons of milk and increase. Others they fabricate of
bits of silk, and these are highly honoured;... and whenever they begin to eat or drink, they
first offer these idols a portion of their food or drink."

The account agrees generally with what we are told of the original Shamanism of the Tunguses,
which recognizes a Supreme Power over all, and a small number of potent spirits called Ongot.
These spirits among the Buraets are called, according to one author, Nougait or Nogat, and
according to Erman Ongotui. In some form of this same word, Nogait, Ongot, Onggod, Ongotui,
we are, I imagine, to trace the Natigay of Polo. The modern representative of this Shamanist
Lar is still found among the Buraets, and is thus described by Pallas under the name of Immegiljin:
"He is honoured as the tutelary god of the sheep and other cattle. Properly, the divinity consists
of two figures, hanging side by side, one of whom represents the god's wife. These two figures
are merely a pair of lanky flat bolsters with the upper part shaped into a round disk, and
the body hung with a long woolly fleece; eyes, nose, breasts, and navel, being indicated by
leather knobs stitched on. The male figure commonly has at his girdle the foot-rope with which
horses at pasture are fettered, whilst the female, which is sometimes accompanied by smaller
figures representing her children, has all sorts of little nicknacks and sewing implements."
Galsang Czomboyef, a recent Russo-Mongol writer already quoted, says also: "Among the Buryats,
in the middle of the hut and place of honour, is the Dsaiagaçhi or 'Chief Creator of Fortune.'
At the door is the Emelgelji, the Tutelary of the Herds and Young Cattle, made of sheepskins.
Outside the hut is the Chandaghatu, a name implying that the idol was formed of a white hare-skin,
the Tutelary of the Chase and perhaps of War. All these have been expelled by Buddhism except
Dsaiagachi, who is called Tengri, and introduced among the Buddhist divinities."

[Dorji Banzaroff, in his dissertation On the Black Religion, i.e. Shamanism, 1846, "is disposed
to see in Natigay of M. Polo, the Ytoga of other travellers, i.e. the Mongol Etugen--'earth,'
as the object of veneration of the Mongol Shamans. They look upon it as a divinity, for its
power as Delegei in echen, i.e. 'the Lord of Earth,' and on account of its productiveness,
Altan delegei, i.e. 'Golden Earth.'" Palladius (l.c. pp. 14-16) adds one new variant to what
the learned Colonel Yule has collected and set forth with such precision, on the Shaman household
gods. "The Dahurs and Barhus have in their dwellings, according to the number of the male members
of the family, puppets made of straw, on which eyes, eyebrows, and mouth are drawn; these puppets
are dressed up to the waist. When some one of the family dies, his puppet is taken out of the
house, and a new puppet is made for every newly-born member of the family. On New Year's Day
offerings are made to the puppets, and care is taken not to disturb them (by moving them, etc.),
in order to avoid bringing sickness upon the family." (He lung kiang wai ki.)

(Cf. Rubruck, 58-59, and Mr. Rockhill's note, 59-60.)--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--KIMIZ or KUMIZ, the habitual drink of the Mongols, as it still is of most of the nomads
of Asia. It is thus made. Fresh mare's milk is put in a well-seasoned bottle-necked vessel
of horse-skin; a little kurút (see note 5, ch. liv.) or some sour cow's milk is added; and
when acetous fermentation is commencing it is violently churned with a peculiar staff which
constantly stands in the vessel. This interrupts fermentation and introduces a quantity of
air into the liquid. It is customary for visitors who may drop in to give a turn or two at
the churn-stick. After three or four days the drink is ready.

Kumiz keeps long; it is wonderfully tonic and nutritious, and it is said that it has cured
many persons threatened with consumption. The tribes using it are said to be remarkably free
from pulmonary disease; and indeed I understand there is a regular Galactopathic establishment
somewhere in the province of Orenburg for treating pulmonary patients with Kumiz diet.

It has a peculiar fore- and after-taste which, it is said, everybody does not like. Yet I have
found no confession of a dislike to Kumiz. Rubruquis tells us it is pungent on the tongue,
like vinum raspei (vin rapé of the French), whilst you are drinking it, but leaves behind a
pleasant flavour like milk of almonds. It makes a man's inside feel very cosy, he adds, even
turning a weak head, and is strongly diuretic. To this last statement, however, modern report
is in direct contradiction. The Greeks and other Oriental Christians considered it a sort of
denial of the faith to drink Kumiz. On the other hand, the Mahomedan converts from the nomad
tribes seem to have adhered to the use of Kumiz even when strict in abstinence from wine; and
it was indulged in by the early Mamelukes as a public solemnity. Excess on such an occasion
killed Bibars Bundukdari, who was passionately fond of this liquor.

The intoxicating power of Kumiz varies according to the brew. The more advanced is the vinous
fermentation the less acid is the taste and the more it sparkles. The effect, however, is always
slight and transitory, and leaves no unpleasant sensation, whilst it produces a strong tendency
to refreshing sleep. If its good qualities amount to half what are ascribed to it by Dr. W.
F. Dahl, from whom we derive some of these particulars, it must be the pearl of all beverages.
"With the nomads it is the drink of all from the suckling upwards, it is the solace of age
and illness, and the greatest of treats to all!"

There was a special kind called Kará Kumiz, which is mentioned both by Rubruquis and in the
history of Wassáf. It seems to have been strained and clarified. The modern Tartars distil
a spirit from Kumiz of which Pallas gives a detailed account. (Dahl, Ueber den Kumyss in Baer's
Beiträge, VII.; Lettres sur le Caucase et la Crimée, Paris, 1859, p. 81; Makrizi, II. 147;
J. As. XI. 160; Levchine, 322-323; Rubr. 227-228, 335; Gold. Horde, p. 46; Erman, I. 296; Pallas,
Samml. I. 132 seqq.)

[In the Si yu ki, Travels to the West of Ch'ang ch'un, we find a drink called tung lo. "The
Chinese characters, tung lo," says Bretschneider (Med. Res. I. 94), "denote according to the
dictionaries preparations from mare's or cow's milk, as Kumis, sour milk, etc. In the Yuan
shi (ch. cxxviii.) biography of the Kipchak prince Tú-tú-ha, it is stated that 'black mare's
milk' (evidently the cara cosmos of Rubruck), very pleasant to the taste, used to be sent from
Kipchak to the Mongol court in China." (On the drinks of the Mongols, see Mr. Rockhill's note,
Rubruck, p. 62.)--The Mongols indulge in sour milk (tarak) and distilled mare's milk (arreki),
but Mr. Rockhill (Land of the Lamas, 130) says he never saw them drink kumiz.--H. C.]

The mare's-milk drink of Scythian nomads is alluded to by many ancient authors. But the manufacture
of Kumiz is particularly spoken of by Herodotus. "The (mare's) milk is poured into deep wooden
casks, about which the blind slaves are placed, and then the milk is stirred round. That which
rises to the top is drawn off, and considered the best part; the under portion is of less account."
Strabo also speaks of the nomads beyond the Cimmerian Chersonesus, who feed on horse-flesh
and other flesh, mare's-milk cheese, mare's milk, and sour milk ([Greek: óxygalakta]) "which
they have a particular way of preparing." Perhaps Herodotus was mistaken about the wooden tubs.
At least all modern attempts to use anything but the orthodox skins have failed. Priscus, in
his narrative of the mission of himself and Maximin to Attila, says the Huns brought them a
drink made from barley which they called [Greek: Kámos]. The barley was, no doubt, a misapprehension
of his. (Herod. Bk. iv. p. 2, in Rawl.; Strabo, VII. 4, 6; Excerpta de Legationibus, in Corp.
Hist. Byzant. I. 55.)

CHAPTER LIV.

CONCERNING THE TARTAR CUSTOMS OF WAR.

All their harness of war is excellent and costly. Their arms are bows and arrows, sword and
mace; but above all the bow, for they are capital archers, indeed the best that are known.
On their backs they wear armour of cuirbouly, prepared from buffalo and other hides, which
is very strong.[NOTE 1] They are excellent soldiers, and passing valiant in battle. They are
also more capable of hardships than other nations; for many a time, if need be, they will go
for a month without any supply of food, living only on the milk of their mares and on such
game as their bows may win them. Their horses also will subsist entirely on the grass of the
plains, so that there is no need to carry store of barley or straw or oats; and they are very
docile to their riders. These, in case of need, will abide on horseback the livelong night,
armed at all points, while the horse will be continually grazing.

Of all troops in the world these are they which endure the greatest hardship and fatigue, and
which cost the least; and they are the best of all for making wide conquests of country. And
this you will perceive from what you have heard and shall hear in this book; and (as a fact)
there can be no manner of doubt that now they are the masters of the biggest half of the world.
Their troops are admirably ordered in the manner that I shall now relate.

You see, when a Tartar prince goes forth to war, he takes with him, say, 100,000 horse. Well,
he appoints an officer to every ten men, one to every hundred, one to every thousand, and one
to every ten thousand, so that his own orders have to be given to ten persons only, and each
of these ten persons has to pass the orders only to other ten, and so on; no one having to
give orders to more than ten. And every one in turn is responsible only to the officer immediately
over him; and the discipline and order that comes of this method is marvellous, for they are
a people very obedient to their chiefs. Further, they call the corps of 100,000 men a Tuc;
that of 10,000 they call a Toman; the thousand they call...; the hundred Guz; the ten....[NOTE
2] And when the army is on the march they have always 200 horsemen, very well mounted, who
are sent a distance of two marches in advance to reconnoitre, and these always keep ahead.
They have a similar party detached in the rear, and on either flank, so that there is a good
look-out kept on all sides against a surprise. When they are going on a distant expedition
they take no gear with them except two leather bottles for milk; a little earthenware pot to
cook their meat in, and a little tent to shelter them from rain.[NOTE 3] And in case of great
urgency they will ride ten days on end without lighting a fire or taking a meal. On such an
occasion they will sustain themselves on the blood of their horses, opening a vein and letting
the blood jet into their mouths, drinking till they have had enough, and then staunching it.[NOTE
4]

They also have milk dried into a kind of paste to carry with them; and when they need food
they put this in water, and beat it up till it dissolves, and then drink it. [It is prepared
in this way; they boil the milk, and when the rich part floats on the top they skim it into
another vessel, and of that they make butter; for the milk will not become solid till this
is removed. Then they put the milk in the sun to dry. And when they go on an expedition, every
man takes some ten pounds of this dried milk with him. And of a morning he will take a half
pound of it and put it in his leather bottle, with as much water as he pleases. So, as he rides
along, the milk-paste and the water in the bottle get well churned together into a kind of
pap, and that makes his dinner.[NOTE 5]]

When they come to an engagement with the enemy, they will gain the victory in this fashion.
[They never let themselves get into a regular medley, but keep perpetually riding round and
shooting into the enemy. And] as they do not count it any shame to run away in battle, they
will [sometimes pretend to] do so, and in running away they turn in the saddle and shoot hard
and strong at the foe, and in this way make great havoc. Their horses are trained so perfectly
that they will double hither and thither, just like a dog, in a way that is quite astonishing.
Thus they fight to as good purpose in running away as if they stood and faced the enemy, because
of the vast volleys of arrows that they shoot in this way, turning round upon their pursuers,
who are fancying that they have won the battle. But when the Tartars see that they have killed
and wounded a good many horses and men, they wheel round bodily, and return to the charge in
perfect order and with loud cries; and in a very short time the enemy are routed. In truth
they are stout and valiant soldiers, and inured to war. And you perceive that it is just when
the enemy sees them run, and imagines that he has gained the battle, that he has in reality
lost it; for the Tartars wheel round in a moment when they judge the right time has come. And
after this fashion they have won many a fight.[NOTE 6]

All this that I have been telling you is true of the manners and customs of the genuine Tartars.
But I must add also that in these days they are greatly degenerated; for those who are settled
in Cathay have taken up the practices of the Idolaters of the country, and have abandoned their
own institutions; whilst those who have settled in the Levant have adopted the customs of the
Saracens.[NOTE 7]

NOTE 1.--The bow was the characteristic weapon of the Tartars, insomuch that the Armenian historians
often call them "The Archers." (St. Martin, II. 133.) "CUIRBOULY, leather softened by boiling,
in which it took any form or impression required, and then hardened." (Wright's Dict.) The
English adventurer among the Tartars, whose account of them is given by Archbishop Ivo of Narbonne,
in Matthew Paris (sub. 1243), says: "De coriis bullitis sibi arma levia quidem, sed tamen impenetrabilia
coaptarunt." This armour is particularly described by Plano Carpini (p. 685). See the tail-piece
to Book IV.

[Mr. E. H. Parker (China Review, XXIV. iv. p. 205) remarks that "the first coats of mail were
made in China in 1288: perhaps the idea was obtained from the Malays or Arabs."--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--M. Pauthier has judiciously pointed out the omissions that have occurred here, perhaps
owing to Rusticiano's not properly catching the foreign terms applied to the various grades.
In the G. Text the passage runs: "Et sachiés que les cent mille est apellé un Tut (read tuc)
et les dix mille un Toman, et les por milier et por centenier et por desme." In Pauthier's
(uncorrected) text one of the missing words is supplied: "Et appellent les C.M. un Tuc; et
les X.M. un Toman; et un millier Guz por centenier et por disenier." The blanks he supplies
thus from Abulghazi: "Et un millier: [un Miny]; Guz, por centenier et [Un] por disenier." The
words supplied are Turki, but so is the Guz, which appears already in Pauthier's text, whilst
Toman and Tuc are common to Turki and Mongol. The latter word, Túk or Túgh, is the horse-tail
or yak-tail standard which among so many Asiatic nations has marked the supreme military command.
It occurs as Taka in ancient Persian, and Cosmas Indicopleustes speaks of it as Tupha. The
Nine Orloks or Marshals under Chinghiz were entitled to the Tuk, and theirs is probably the
class of command here indicated as of 100,000, though the figure must not be strictly taken.
Timur ordains that every Amir who should conquer a kingdom or command in a victory should receive
a title of honour, the Tugh and the Nakkárá. (Infra, Bk. II. ch. iv. note 3.) Baber on several
occasions speaks of conferring the Tugh upon his generals for distinguished service. One of
the military titles at Bokhara is still Tokhsabai, a corruption of Túgh-Sáhibi, (Master of
the Tugh).

We find the whole gradation except the Tuc in a rescript of Janibeg, Khan of Sarai, in favour
of Venetian merchants dated February 1347. It begins in the Venetian version: "La parola de
Zanibeck allo puovolo di Mogoli, alli Baroni di Thomeni,[1] delli miera, delli centenera, delle
dexiene." (Erdmann, 576; D'Avezac, 577-578; Rémusat, Langues Tartares, 303; Pallas, Samml.
I. 283; Schmidt, 379, 381; Baber, 260, etc.; Vámbéry, 374; Timour Inst. pp. 283 and 292-293;
Bibl. de l'Ec. des Chartes, tom. lv. p. 585.)

The decimal division of the army was already made by Chinghiz at an early period of his career,
and was probably much older than his time. In fact we find the Myriarch and Chiliarch already
in the Persian armies of Darius Hystaspes. From the Tartars the system passed into nearly all
the Musulman States of Asia, and the titles Min-bashi or Bimbashi, Yuzbashi, Onbashi, still
subsist not only in Turkestan, but also in Turkey and Persia. The term Tman or Tma was, according
to Herberstein, still used in Russia in his day for 10,000. (Ramus. II. 159.)

[The King of An-nam, Dinh Tiên-hòang (A.D. 968) had an army of 1,000,000 men forming 10 corps
of 10 legions; each legion forming 10 cohorts of 10 centuries; each century forming 10 squads
of 10 men.--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--Ramusio's edition says that what with horses and mares there will be an average of
eighteen beasts (?) to every man.

NOTE 4.--See the Oriental account quoted below in Note 6.

So Dionysius, combining this practice with that next described, relates of the Massagetae that
they have no delicious bread nor native wine:

          "But with horse's blood
  And white milk mingled set their banquets forth."
      (Orbis Desc. 743-744.)

And Sidonius:

          "Solitosque cruentum
  Lac potare Getas, et pocula tingere venis."
      (Parag. ad Avitum.)

["The Scythian soldier drinks the blood of the first man he overthrows in battle." (Herodotus,
Rawlinson, Bk. IV. ch. 64, p. 54.)--H. C.] "When in lack of food, they bleed a horse and suck
the vein. If they need something more solid, they put a sheep's pudding full of blood under
the saddle; this in time gets coagulated and cooked by the heat, and then they devour it."
(Georg. Pachymeres, V. 4.) The last is a well-known story, but is strenuously denied and ridiculed
by Bergmann. (Streifereien, etc. I. 15.) Joinville tells the same story. Hans Schiltberger
asserts it very distinctly: "Ich hon och gesehen wann sie in reiss ylten, das sie ein fleisch
nemen, und es dunn schinden und legents unter den sattel, und riten doruff; und essents wann
sie hungert" (ch. 35). Botero had "heard from a trustworthy source that a Tartar of Perekop,
travelling on the steppes, lived for some days on the blood of his horse, and then, not daring
to bleed it more, cut off and ate its ears!" (Relazione Univers. p. 93.) The Turkmans speak
of such practices, but Conolly says he came to regard them as hyperbolical talk (I. 45).

[Abul-Ghazi Khan, in his History of Mongols, describing a raid of Russian (Ourous) Cossacks,
who were hemmed in by the Uzbeks, says: "The Russians had in continued fighting exhausted all
their water. They began to drink blood; the fifth day they had not even blood remaining to
drink." (Transl. by Baron Des Maisons, St. Petersburg, II. 295.)]

NOTE 5.--Rubruquis thus describes this preparation, which is called Kurút: "The milk that remains
after the butter has been made, they allow to get as sour as sour can be, and then boil it.
In boiling, it curdles, and that curd they dry in the sun; and in this way it becomes as hard
as iron-slag. And so it is stored in bags against the winter. In the winter time, when they
have no milk, they put that sour curd, which they call Griut, into a skin, and pour warm water
on it, and they shake it violently till the curd dissolves in the water, to which it gives
an acid flavour; that water they drink in place of milk. But above all things they eschew drinking
plain water." From Pallas's account of the modern practice, which is substantially the same,
these cakes are also made from the leavings of distillation in making milk-arrack. The Kurút
is frequently made of ewe-milk. Wood speaks of it as an indispensable article in the food of
the people of Badakhshan, and under the same name it is a staple food of the Afghans. (Rubr.
229; Samml. I. 136; Dahl, u.s.; Wood, 311.)

[It is the ch'ura of the Tibetans. "In the Kokonor country and Tibet, this krut or chura is
put in tea to soften, and then eaten either alone or mixed with parched barley meal (tsamba)."
(Rockhill, Rubruck, p. 68, note.)--H. C.]

NOTE 6.--Compare with Marco's account the report of the Mongols, which was brought by the spies
of Mahomed, Sultan of Khwarizm, when invasion was first menaced by Chinghiz: "The army of Chinghiz
is countless, as a swarm of ants or locusts. Their warriors are matchless in lion-like valour,
in obedience, and endurance. They take no rest, and flight or retreat is unknown to them. On
their expeditions they are accompanied by oxen, sheep, camels, and horses, and sweet or sour
milk suffices them for food. Their horses scratch the earth with their hoofs and feed on the
roots and grasses they dig up, so that they need neither straw nor oats. They themselves reck
nothing of the clean or the unclean in food, and eat the flesh of all animals, even of dogs,
swine, and bears. They will open a horse's vein, draw blood, and drink it.... In victory they
leave neither small nor great alive; they cut up women great with child and cleave the fruit
of the womb. If they come to a great river, as they know nothing of boats, they sew skins together,
stitch up all their goods therein, tie the bundle to their horses' tails, mount with a hard
grip of the mane, and so swim over." This passage is an absolute abridgment of many chapters
of Carpini. Still more terse was the sketch of Mongol proceedings drawn by a fugitive from
Bokhara after Chinghiz's devastations there. It was set forth in one unconscious hexameter:

  "Ámdand u khandand u sokhtand u kushtand u burdand u raftand!"
  "They came and they sapped, they fired and they slew, trussed up their
  loot and were gone!"

Juwaini, the historian, after telling the story, adds: "The cream and essence of whatever is
written in this volume might be represented in these few words."

A Musulman author quoted by Hammer, Najmuddin of Rei, gives an awful picture of the Tartar
devastations, "Such as had never been heard of, whether in the lands of unbelief or of Islam,
and can only be likened to those which the Prophet announced as signs of the Last Day, when
he said: 'The Hour of Judgment shall not come until ye shall have fought with the Turks, men
small of eye and ruddy of countenance, whose noses are flat, and their faces like hide-covered
shields. Those shall be Days of Horror!' 'And what meanest thou by horror?' said the Companions;
and he replied, 'SLAUGHTER! SLAUGHTER!' This beheld the Prophet in vision 600 years ago. And
could there well be worse slaughter than there was in Rei, where I, wretch that I am, was born
and bred, and where the whole population of five hundred thousand souls was either butchered
or dragged into slavery?"

Marco habitually suppresses or ignores the frightful brutalities of the Tartars, but these
were somewhat less, no doubt, in Kúblái's time.

The Hindustani poet Amir Khosru gives a picture of the Mongols more forcible than elegant,
which Elliot has translated (III. 528).

This is Hayton's account of the Parthian tactics of the Tartars: "They will run away, but always
keeping their companies together; and it is very dangerous to give them chase, for as they
flee they shoot back over their heads, and do great execution among their pursuers. They keep
very close rank, so that you would not guess them for half their real strength." Carpini speaks
to the same effect. Baber, himself of Mongol descent, but heartily hating his kindred, gives
this account of their military usage in his day: "Such is the uniform practice of these wretches
the Moghuls; if they defeat the enemy they instantly seize the booty; if they are defeated,
they plunder and dismount their own allies, and, betide what may, carry off the spoil." (Erdmann,
364, 383, 620; Gold. Horde, 77, 80; Elliot, II. 388; Hayton in Ram. ch. xlviii.; Baber, 93;
Carpini, p. 694.)

NOTE 7.--"The Scythians" (i.e. in the absurd Byzantine pedantry, Tartars), says Nicephorus
Gregoras, "from converse with the Assyrians, Persians, and Chaldaeans, in time acquired their
manners and adopted their religion, casting off their ancestral atheism.... And to such a degree
were they changed, that though in former days they had been wont to cover the head with nothing
better than a loose felt cap, and for other clothing had thought themselves well off with the
skins of wild beasts or ill-dressed leather, and had for weapons only clubs and slings, or
spears, arrows, and bows extemporised from the oaks and other trees of their mountains and
forests, now, forsooth, they will have no meaner clothing than brocades of silk and gold! And
their luxury and delicate living came to such a pitch that they stood far as the poles asunder
from their original habits" (II. v. 6).

[1] This is Chomeni in the original, but I have ventured to correct it.

CHAPTER LV.

CONCERNING THE ADMINISTERING OF JUSTICE AMONG THE TARTARS.

The way they administer justice is this. When any one has committed a petty theft, they give
him, under the orders of authority, seven blows of a stick, or seventeen, or twenty-seven,
or thirty-seven, or forty-seven, and so forth, always increasing by tens in proportion to the
injury done, and running up to one hundred and seven. Of these beatings sometimes they die.[NOTE
1] But if the offence be horse-stealing, or some other great matter, they cut the thief in
two with a sword. Howbeit, if he be able to ransom himself by paying nine times the value of
the thing stolen, he is let off. Every Lord or other person who possesses beasts has them marked
with his peculiar brand, be they horses, mares, camels, oxen, cows, or other great cattle,
and then they are sent abroad to graze over the plains without any keeper. They get all mixt
together, but eventually every beast is recovered by means of its owner's brand, which is known.
For their sheep and goats they have shepherds. All that I will tell you in this book in proper
time and place, but meanwhile I must return to my story which I left off in that great plain
when we began to speak of the Tartars.[NOTE 4]

NOTE 1.--The cudgel among the Mongols was not confined to thieves and such like. It was the
punishment also of military and state offences, and even princes were liable to it without
fatal disgrace. "If they give any offence," says Carpini, "or omit to obey the slightest beck,
the Tartars themselves are beaten like donkeys." The number of blows administered was, according
to Wassáf, always odd, 3, 5, and so forth, up to 77. (Carp. 712; Ilchan. I. 37.)

["They also punish with death grand larceny, but as for petty thefts, such as that of a sheep,
so long has one has not repeatedly been taken in the act, they beat him cruelly, and if they
administer an hundred blows they must use an hundred sticks." (Rockhill, Rubruck, p. 80.)--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--"They have no herdsmen or others to watch their cattle, because the laws of the Turks
(i.e. Tartars) against theft are so severe.... A man in whose possession a stolen horse is
found is obliged to restore it to its owner, and to give nine of the same value; if he cannot,
his children are seized in compensation; if he have no children, he is slaughtered like a mutton."
(Ibn Batuta, II. 364.)

NOTE 3.--This is a Chinese custom, though no doubt we may trust Marco for its being a Tartar
one also. "In the province of Shansi they have a ridiculous custom, which is to marry dead
folks to each other. F. Michael Trigault, a Jesuit, who lived several years in that province,
told it us whilst we were in confinement. It falls out that one man's son and another man's
daughter die. Whilst the coffins are in the house (and they used to keep them two or three
years, or longer) the parents agree to marry them; they send the usual presents, as if the
pair were alive, with much ceremony and music. After this they put the two coffins together,
hold the wedding dinner in their presence, and, lastly, lay them together in one tomb. The
parents, from this time forth, are looked on not merely as friends but as relatives--just as
they would have been had their children been married when in life." (Navarrete, quoted by Marsden.)
Kidd likewise, speaking of the Chinese custom of worshipping at the tombs of progenitors, says:
"So strongly does veneration for this tribute after death prevail that parents, in order to
secure the memorial of the sepulchre for a daughter who has died during her betrothal, give
her in marriage after her decease to her intended husband, who receives with nuptial ceremonies
at his own house a paper effigy made by her parents, and after he has burnt it, erects a tablet
to her memory--an honour which usage forbids to be rendered to the memory of unmarried persons.
The law seeks without effect to abolish this absurd custom." (China, etc., pp. 179-180.)

[Professor J. J. M. de Groot (Religious System of China) gives several instances of marriages
after death; the following example (II. 804-805) will illustrate the custom: "An interesting
account of the manner in which such post-mortem marriages were concluded at the period when
the Sung Dynasty governed the Empire, is given by a contemporary work in the following words:
'In the northern parts of the Realm it is customary, when an unmarried youth and an unmarried
girl breathe their last, that the two families each charge a match-maker to demand the other
party in marriage. Such go-betweens are called match-makers for disembodied souls. They acquaint
the two families with each other's circumstances, and then cast lots for the marriage by order
of the parents on both sides. If they augur that the union will be a happy one, (wedding) garments
for the next world are cut out, and the match-makers repair to the grave of the lad, there
to set out wine and fruit for the consummation of the marriage. Two seats are placed side by
side, and a small streamer is set up near each seat. If these streamers move a little after
the libation has been performed, the souls are believed to approach each other; but if one
of them does not move, the party represented thereby is considered to disapprove of the marriage.
Each family has to reward its match-maker with a present of woven stuffs. Such go-betweens
make a regular livelihood out of these proceedings.'"--H. C.]

The Ingushes of the Caucasus, according to Klaproth, have the same custom: "If a man's son
dies, another who has lost his daughter goes to the father and says, 'Thy son will want a wife
in the other world; I will give him my daughter; pay me the price of the bride.' Such a demand
is never refused, even though the purchase of the bride amount to thirty cows." (Travels, Eng.
Trans. 345.)

NOTE 4.--There is a little doubt about the reading of this last paragraph. The G. T. has--"Mès
desormès volun retorner à nostre conte en la grant plaingne où nos estion quant nos comechames
des fais des Tartars," whilst Pauthier's text has "Mais desormais vueil retourner à mon conte
que Je lessai d'or plain quant nous commençames des faiz des Tatars." The former reading looks
very like a misunderstanding of one similar to the latter, where d'or plain seems to be an
adverbial expression, with some such meaning as "just now," "a while ago." I have not, however,
been able to trace the expression elsewhere. Cotgrave has or primes, "but even now," etc.;
and has also de plain, "presently, immediately, out of hand." It seems quite possible that
d'or plain should have had the meaning suggested.

CHAPTER LVI.

SUNDRY PARTICULARS OF THE PLAIN BEYOND CARACORON. Their customs are like those of the Tartars,
and they are subject to the Great Kaan. They have neither corn nor wine.[They get birds for
food, for the country is full of lakes and pools and marshes, which are much frequented by
the birds when they are moulting, and when they have quite cast their feathers and can't fly,
those people catch them. They also live partly on fish.[NOTE 2]]

And when you have travelled forty days over this great plain you come to the ocean, at the
place where the mountains are in which the Peregrine falcons have their nests. And in those
mountains it is so cold that you find neither man or woman, nor beast nor bird, except one
kind of bird called Barguerlac, on which the falcons feed. They are as big as partridges, and
have feet like those of parrots and a tail like a swallow's, and are very strong in flight.
And when the Grand Kaan wants Peregrines from the nest, he sends thither to procure them.[NOTE
3] It is also on islands in that sea that the Gerfalcons are bred. You must know that the place
is so far to the north that you leave the North Star somewhat behind you towards the south!
The gerfalcons are so abundant there that the Emperor can have as many as he likes to send
for. And you must not suppose that those gerfalcons which the Christians carry into the Tartar
dominions go to the Great Kaan; they are carried only to the Prince of the Levant.[NOTE 4]

Now I have told you all about the provinces northward as far as the Ocean Sea, beyond which
there is no more land at all; so I shall proceed to tell you of the other provinces on the
way to the Great Kaan. Let us, then, return to that province of which I spoke before, called
Campichu.

NOTE 1.--The readings differ as to the length of the journey. In Pauthier's text we seem to
have first a journey of forty days from near Karakorúm to the Plain of Bargu, and then a journey
of forty days more across the plain to the Northern Ocean. The G. T. seems to present only
one journey of forty days (Ramusio, of sixty days), but leaves the interval from Karakorúm
undefined. I have followed the former, though with some doubt.

NOTE 2.--This paragraph from Ramusio replaces the following in Pauthier's text: "In the summer
they got abundance of game, both beasts and birds, but in winter, there is none to be had because
of the great cold."

Marco is here dealing, I apprehend, with hearsay geography, and, as is common in like cases,
there is great compression of circumstances and characteristics, analogous to the like compression
of little-known regions in mediaeval maps.

The name Bargu appears to be the same with that often mentioned in Mongol history as BARGUCHIN
TUGRUM or BARGUTI, and which Rashiduddin calls the northern limit of the inhabited earth. This
commenced about Lake Baikal, where the name still survives in that of a river (Barguzin) falling
into the Lake on the east side, and of a town on its banks (Barguzinsk). Indeed, according
to Rashid himself, BARGU was the name of one of the tribes occupying the plain; and a quotation
from Father Hyacinth would seem to show that the country is still called Barakhu.

[The Archimandrite Palladius (Elucidations, 16-17) writes:--"In the Mongol text of Chingis
Khan's biography, this country is called Barhu and Barhuchin; it is to be supposed, according
to Colonel Yule's identification of this name with the modern Barguzin, that this country was
near Lake Baikal. The fact that Merkits were in Bargu is confirmed by the following statement
in Chingis Khan's biography: 'When Chingis Khan defeated his enemies, the Merkits, they fled
to Barhuchin tokum.' Tokum signifies 'a hollow, a low place,' according to the Chinese translation
of the above-mentioned biography, made in 1381; thus Barhuchin tokum undoubtedly corresponds
to M. Polo's Plain of Bargu. As to M. Polo's statement that the inhabitants of Bargu were Merkits,
it cannot be accepted unconditionally. The Merkits were not indigenous to the country near
Baikal, but belonged originally,--according to a division set forth in the Mongol text of the
Yuan ch'ao pi shi,--to the category of tribes living in yurts, i.e. nomad tribes, or tribes
of the desert. Meanwhile we find in the same biography of Chingis Khan, mention of a people
called Barhun, which belonged to the category of tribes living in the forests; and we have
therefore reason to suppose that the Barhuns were the aborigines of Barhu. After the time of
Chingis Khan, this ethnographic name disappears from Chinese history; it appears again in the
middle of the 16th century. The author of the Yyu (1543-1544), in enumerating the tribes inhabiting
Mongolia and the adjacent countries, mentions the Barhu, as a strong tribe, able to supply
up to several tens of thousands (?) of warriors, armed with steel swords; but the country inhabited
by them is not indicated. The Mongols, it is added, call them Black Ta-tze (Khara Mongols,
i.e. 'Lower Mongols').

"At the close of the 17th century, the Barhus are found inhabiting the western slopes of the
interior Hing'an, as well as between Lake Kulon and River Khalkha, and dependent on a prince
of eastern Khalkhas, Doro beile. (Manchu title.)

"At the time of Galdan Khan's invasion, a part of them fled to Siberia with the eastern Khalkhas,
but afterwards they returned. [Mung ku yew mu ki and Lung sha ki lio.] After their rebellion
in 1696, quelled by a Manchu General, they were included with other petty tribes (regarding
which few researches have been made) in the category butkha, or hunters, and received a military
organisation. They are divided into Old and New Barhu, according to the time when they were
brought under Manchu rule. The Barhus belong to the Mongolian, not to the Tungusian race; they
are sometimes considered even to have been in relationship with the Khalkhas. (He lung kiang
wai ki and Lung sha ki lio.)

"This is all the substantial information we possess on the Barhu. Is there an affinity to be
found between the modern Barhus and the Barhuns of Chingis Khan's biography?--and is it to
be supposed, that in the course of time, they spread from Lake Baikal to the Hing'an range?
Or is it more correct to consider them a branch of the Mongol race indigenous to the Hing'an
Mountains, and which received the general archaic name of Bargu, which might have pointed out
the physical character of the country they inhabited [Kin Shi], just as we find in history
the Urianhai of Altai and the Urianhai of Western Manchuria? It is difficult to solve this
question for want of historical data."--H. C.]

Mescript, or Mecri, as in G. T. The Merkit, a great tribe to the south-east of the Baikal,
were also called Mekrit and sometimes Megrin. The Mekrit are spoken of also by Carpini and
Rubruquis. D'Avezac thinks that the Kerait, and not the Merkit, are intended by all three travellers.
As regards Polo, I see no reason for this view. The name he uses is Mekrit, and the position
which he assigns to them agrees fairly with that assigned on good authority to the Merkit or
Mekrit. Only, as in other cases, where he is rehearsing hearsay information, it does not follow
that the identification of the name involves the correctness of all the circumstances that
he connects with that name. We saw in ch. xxx. that under Pashai he seemed to lump circumstances
belonging to various parts of the region from Badakhshan to the Indus; so here under Mekrit
he embraces characteristics belonging to tribes extending far beyond the Mekrit, and which
in fact are appropriate to the Tunguses.

The mention of the Reindeer by Polo in this passage is one of the interesting points which
Pauthier's text omits. Marsden objects to the statement that the stags are ridden upon, and
from this motive mis-renders "li qual' anche cavalcano," as, "which they make use of for the
purpose of travelling." Yet he might have found in Witsen that the Reindeer are ridden by various
Siberian Tribes, but especially by the Tunguses. Erman is very full on the reindeer-riding
of the latter people, having himself travelled far in that way in going to Okhotsk, and gives
a very detailed description of the saddle, etc., employed. The reindeer of the Tunguses are
stated by the same traveller to be much larger and finer animals than those of Lapland. They
are also used for pack-carriage and draught. Old Richard Eden says that the "olde wryters"
relate that "certayne Scythians doe ryde on Hartes." I have not traced to what he refers, but
if the statement be in any ancient author it is very remarkable. Some old editions of Olaus
Magnus have curious cuts of Laplanders and others riding on reindeer, but I find nothing in
the text appropriate. We hear from travellers of the Lapland deer being occasionally mounted,
but only it would seem in sport, not as a practice. (Erdmann, 189, 191; D'Ohsson, I. 103; D'Avezac,
534 seqq.; J. As. sér. II. tom. xi.; sér. IV. tom. xvii. 107; N. et E. XIII. i. 274-276; Witsen,
II. 670, 671, 680; Erman, II. 321, 374, 429, 449 seqq., and original German, II. 347 seqq.;
Notes on Russia, Hac. Soc. II. 224; J. A. S. B. XXIX. 379.)

The numerous lakes and marshes swarming with water-fowl are very characteristic of the country
between Yakutsk and the Kolyma. It is evident that Marco had his information from an eye-witness,
though the whole picture is compressed. Wrangell, speaking of Nijni Kolyma, says: "It is at
the moulting season that the great bird-hunts take place. The sportsmen surround the nests,
and slip their dogs, which drive the birds to the water, on which they are easily knocked over
with a gun or arrow, or even with a stick.... This chase is divided into several periods. They
begin with the ducks, which moult first; then come the geese; then the swans.... In each case
the people take care to choose the time when the birds have lost their feathers." The whole
calendar with the Yakuts and Russian settlers on the Kolyma is a succession of fishing and
hunting seasons which the same author details. (I. 149, 150; 119-121.)

NOTE 3.--What little is said of the Barguerlac points to some bird of the genus Pterocles,
or Sand Grouse (to which belong the so-called Rock Pigeons of India), or to the allied Tetrao
paradoxus of Pallas, now known as Syrrhaptes Pallasii. Indeed, we find in Zenker's Dictionary
that Boghurtlák (or Baghírtlák, as it is in Pavet de Courteille's) in Oriental Turkish is the
Kata, i.e. I presume, the Pterocles alchata of Linnaeus, or Large Pin-tailed Sand Grouse. Mr.
Gould, to whom I referred the point, is clear that the Syrrhaptes is Marco's bird, and I believe
there can be no question of it.

[Passing through Ch'ang-k'ou, Mr. Rockhill found the people praying for rain. "The people told
me," he says, in his Journey (p. 9), "that they knew long ago the year would be disastrous,
for the sand grouse had been more numerous of late than for years, and the saying goes Sha-ch'i
kuo, mai lao-po, 'when the sand grouse fly by, wives will be for sale.'"--H. C.]

The chief difficulty in identification with the Syrrhaptes or any known bird, would be "the
feet like a parrot's." The feet of the Syrrhaptes are not indeed like a parrot's, though its
awkward, slow, and waddling gait on the ground, may have suggested the comparison; and though
it has very odd and anomalous feet, a circumstance which the Chinese indicate in another way
by calling the bird (according to Hue) Lung Kio, or "Dragon-foot." [Mr. Rockhill (Journey)
writes in a note (p. 9): "I, for my part, never heard any other name than sha-ch'i, 'sand-fowl,'
given them. This name is used, however, for a variety of birds, among others the partridge."--H.
C.] The hind-toe is absent, the toes are unseparated, recognisable only by the broad flat nails,
and fitted below with a callous couch, whilst the whole foot is covered with short dense feathers
like hair, and is more like a quadruped's paw than a bird's foot.

The home of the Syrrhaptes is in the Altai, the Kirghiz Steppes, and the country round Lake
Baikal, though it also visits the North of China in great flights. "On plains of grass and
sandy deserts," says Gould (Birds of Great Britain, Part IV.), "at one season covered with
snow, and at another sun-burnt and parched by drought, it finds a congenial home; in these
inhospitable and little-known regions it breeds, and when necessity compels it to do so, wings
its way ... over incredible distances to obtain water or food." Hue says, speaking of the bird
on the northern frontier of China: "They generally arrive in great flights from the north,
especially when much snow has fallen, flying with astonishing rapidity, so that the movement
of their wings produces a noise like hail." It is said to be very delicate eating. The bird
owes its place in Gould's Birds of Great Britain to the fact--strongly illustrative of its
being moult volant, as Polo says it is--that it appeared in England in 1859, and since then,
at least up to 1863, continued to arrive annually in pairs or companies in nearly all parts
of our island, from Penzance to Caithness. And Gould states that it was breeding in the Danish
islands. A full account by Mr. A. Newton of this remarkable immigration is contained in the
Ibis for April, 1864, and many details in Stevenson's Birds of Norfolk, I. 376 seqq. There
are plates of Syrrhaptes in Radde's Reisen im Süden von Ost-Sibirien, Bd. II.; in vol. v. of
Temminck, Planches Coloriées, Pl. 95; in Gould, as above; in Gray, Genera of Birds, vol. iii.
p. 517 (life size); and in the Ibis for April, 1860. From the last our cut is taken.

[See A. David et Oustalet, Oiseaux de la Chine, 389, on Syrrhaptes Pallasii or Syrrhaptes Paradoxus.--H.
C.]

NOTE 4.--Gerfalcons (Shonkár) were objects of high estimation in the Middle Ages, and were
frequent presents to and from royal personages. Thus among the presents sent with an embassy
from King James II. of Aragon to the Sultan of Egypt, in 1314, we find three white gerfalcons.
They were sent in homage to Chinghiz and to Kúblái, by the Kirghiz, but I cannot identify the
mountains where they or the Peregrines were found. The Peregrine falcon was in Europe sometimes
termed Faucon Tartare. (See Ménage s. v. Sahin.) The Peregrine of Northern Japan, and probably
therefore that of Siberia, is identical with that of Europe. Witsen speaks of an island in
the Sea of Tartary, from which falcons were got, apparently referring to a Chinese map as his
authority; but I know nothing more of it. (Capmany, IV. 64-65; Ibis, 1862, p. 314; Witsen,
II. 656.)

[On the Falco peregrinus, Lin., and other Falcons, see Ed. Blanc's paper mentioned on p. 162.
The Falco Saker is to be found all over Central Asia; it is called by the Pekingese Hwang-yng
(yellow falcon), (David et Oustalet, Oiseaux de la Chine, 31-32.)--H. C.]

CHAPTER LVII.

OF THE KINGDOM OF ERGUIUL, AND PROVINCE OF SINJU.

On leaving Campichu, then, you travel five days across a tract in which many spirits are heard
speaking in the night season; and at the end of those five marches, towards the east, you come
to a kingdom called ERGUIUL, belonging to the Great Kaan. It is one of the several kingdoms
which make up the great Province of Tangut. The people consist of Nestorian Christians, Idolaters,
and worshippers of Mahommet.[NOTE 1]

There are plenty of cities in this kingdom, but the capital is ERGUIUL. You can travel in a
south-easterly direction from this place into the province of Cathay. Should you follow that
road to the south-east, you come to a city called SINJU, belonging also to Tangut, and subject
to the Great Kaan, which has under it many towns and villages.[NOTE 2] The population is composed
of Idolaters, and worshippers of Mahommet, but there are some Christians also. There are wild
cattle in that country [almost] as big as elephants, splendid creatures, covered everywhere
but on the back with shaggy hair a good four palms long. They are partly black, partly white,
and really wonderfully fine creatures [and the hair or wool is extremely fine and white, finer
and whiter than silk. Messer Marco brought some to Venice as a great curiosity, and so it was
reckoned by those who saw it]. There are also plenty of them tame, which have been caught young.
[They also cross these with the common cow, and the cattle from this cross are wonderful beasts,
and better for work than other animals.] These the people use commonly for burden and general
work, and in the plough as well; and at the latter they will do full twice as much work as
any other cattle, being such very strong beasts.[NOTE 3]

In this country too is found the best musk in the world; and I will tell you how 'tis produced.
There exists in that region a kind of wild animal like a gazelle. It has feet and tail like
the gazelle's, and stag's hair of a very coarse kind, but no horns. It has four tusks, two
below and two above, about three inches long, and slender in form, one pair growing upwards,
and the other downwards. It is a very pretty creature. The musk is found in this way. When
the creature has been taken, they find at the navel between the flesh and the skin something
like an impostume full of blood, which they cut out and remove with all the skin attached to
it. And the blood inside this impostume is the musk that produces that powerful perfume. There
is an immense number of these beasts in the country we are speaking of. [The flesh is very
good to eat. Messer Marco brought the dried head and feet of one of these animals to Venice
with him.[NOTE 4]]

The people are traders and artizans, and also grow abundance of corn. The province has an extent
of 26 days' journey. Pheasants are found there twice as big as ours, indeed nearly as big as
a peacock, and having tails of 7 to 10 palms in length; and besides them other pheasants in
aspect like our own, and birds of many other kinds, and of beautiful variegated plumage.[NOTE
5] The people, who are Idolaters, are fat folks with little noses and black hair, and no beard,
except a few hairs on the upper lip. The women too have very smooth and white skins, and in
every respect are pretty creatures. The men are very sensual, and marry many wives, which is
not forbidden by their religion. No matter how base a woman's descent may be, if she have beauty
she may find a husband among the greatest men in the land, the man paying the girl's father
and mother a great sum of money, according to the bargain that may be made.

NOTE 1.--No approximation to the name of Erguiul in an appropriate position has yet been elicited
from Chinese or other Oriental sources. We cannot go widely astray as to its position, five
days east of Kanchau. Klaproth identifies it with Liangchau-fu; Pauthier with the neighbouring
city of Yungchang, on the ground that the latter was, in the time of Kúblái, the head of one
of the Lús, or Circles, of Kansuh or Tangut, which he has shown some reason for believing to
be the "kingdoms" of Marco.

It is probable, however, that the town called by Polo Erguiul lay north of both the cities
named, and more in line with the position assigned below to Egrigaya. (See note 1, ch. lviii.)

I may notice that the structure of the name Ergui-ul or Ergiu-ul, has a look of analogy to
that of Tang-keu-ul, named in the next note.

["Erguiul is Erichew of the Mongol text of the Yuen ch'ao pi shi, Si-liang in the Chinese history,
the modern Liang chow fu. Klaproth, on the authority of Rashid-eddin, has already identified
this name with that of Si-liang." (Palladius, p. 18.) M. Bonin left Ning-h'ia at the end of
July, 1899, and he crossed the desert to Liangchau in fifteen days from east to west; he is
the first traveller who took this route: Prjevalsky went westward, passing by the residence
of the Prince of Alashan, and Obrutchev followed the route south of Bonin's.--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--No doubt Marsden is right in identifying this with SINING-CHAU, now Sining-fu, the
Chinese city nearest to Tibet and the Kokonor frontier. Grueber and Dorville, who passed it
on their way to Lhasa, in 1661, call it urbs ingens. Sining was visited also by Huc and Gabet,
who are unsatisfactory, as usually on geographical matters. They also call it "an immense town,"
but thinly peopled, its commerce having been in part transferred to Tang-keu-ul, a small town
closer to the frontier.

[Sining belonged to the country called Hwang chung; in 1198, under the Sung Dynasty, it was
subjugated by the Chinese, and was named Si-ning chau; at the beginning of the Ming Dynasty
(from 1368), it was named Si-ning wei, and since 1726 Si-ning fu. (Cf. Gueluy, Chine, p. 62.)
From Liangchau, M. Bonin went to Sining through the Lao kou kau pass and the Ta-Tung ho. Obrutchev
and Grum Grijmaïlo took the usual route from Kanchau to Sining. After the murder of Dutreuil
de Rhins at Tung bu mdo, his companion, Grenard, arrived at Sining, and left it on the 29th
July, 1894. Dr. Sven Hedin gives in his book his own drawing of a gate of Sining-fu, where
he arrived on the 25th November, 1896.--H. C.]

Sining is called by the Tibetans Ziling or Jiling, by the Mongols Seling Khoto. A shawl wool
texture, apparently made in this quarter, is imported into Kashmir and Ladak, under the name
of S'ling. I have supposed Sining to be also the Zilm of which Mr. Shaw heard at Yarkand, and
am answerable for a note to that effect on p. 38 of his High Tartary. But Mr. Shaw, on his
return to Europe, gave some rather strong reasons against this. (See Proc. R. G. S. XVI. 245;
Kircher, pp. 64, 66; Della Penna, 27; Davies's Report, App. p. ccxxix.; Vigne, II. 110, 129.)
[At present Sining is called by the Tibetans Seling K'ar or Kuar, and by the Mongols, Seling
K'utun, K'ar and K'utun meaning "fortified city." (Rockhill, Land of the Lamas, 49, note.)--H. C.]

[Mr. Rockhill (Diary of a Journey, 65) writes: "There must be some Scotch blood in the Hsi-ningites,
for I find they are very fond of oatmeal and of cracked wheat. The first is called yen-mei
ch'en, and is eaten boiled with the water in which mutton has been cooked, or with neat's-foot
oil (yang-t'i yu). The cracked wheat (mei-tzü fan) is eaten prepared in the same way, and is
a very good dish."--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--The Dong, or Wild Yak, has till late years only been known by vague rumour. It has
always been famed in native reports for its great fierceness. The Haft Iklím says that "it
kills with its horns, by its kicks, by treading under foot, and by tearing with its teeth,"
whilst the Emperor Humáyún himself told Sidi 'Ali, the Turkish admiral, that when it had knocked
a man down it skinned him from head to heels by licking him with its tongue! Dr. Campbell states,
in the Journal of the As. Soc. of Bengal, that it was said to be four times the size of the
domestic Yak. The horns are alleged to be sometimes three feet long, and of immense girth;
they are handed round full of strong drink at the festivals of Tibetan grandees, as the Urus
horns were in Germany, according to Caesar.

A note, with which I have been favoured by Dr. Campbell (long the respected Superintendent
of British Sikkim) says: "Captain Smith, of the Bengal Army, who had travelled in Western Tibet,
told me that he had shot many wild Yaks in the neighbourhood of the Mansarawar Lake, and that
he measured a bull which was 18 hands high, i.e. 6 feet. All that he saw were black all over.
He also spoke to the fierceness of the animal. He was once charged by a bull that he had wounded,
and narrowly escaped being killed. Perhaps my statement (above referred to) in regard to the
relative size of the Wild and Tame Yak, may require modification if applied to all the countries
in which the Yak is found. At all events, the finest specimen of the tame Yak I ever saw, was
not in Nepal, Sikkim, Tibet, or Bootan, but in the Jardin des Plantes at Paris; and that one,
a male, was brought from Shanghai. The best drawing of a Yak I know is that in Turner's Tibet."

[Lieutenant Samuel Turner gave a very good description of the Yak of Tartary, which he calls
Soora-Goy or the Bushy-tailed Bull of Tibet. (Asiat. A good drawing of "an enormous" Yak is
to be found on p. 183 of Captain Wellby's Unknown Tibet. (See also Captain Deasy's work on
Tibet, p. 363.) Prince Henri d'Orléans brought home a fine specimen, which he shot during his
journey with Bonvalot; it is now exhibited in the galleries of the Muséum d'Histoire Naturelle.
Some Yaks were brought to Paris on the 1st April, 1854, and the celebrated artist, Mme. Rosa
Bonheur, made sketches after them. (See Jour. Soc. Acclimatation, June, 1900, 39-40.)--H. C.]

Captain Prjevalsky, in his recent journey (1872-1873), shot twenty wild Yaks south of the Koko
Nor. He specifies one as 11 feet in length exclusive of the tail, which was 3 feet more; the
height 6 feet. He speaks of the Yak as less formidable than it looks, from apathy and stupidity,
but very hard to kill; one having taken eighteen bullets before it succumbed.

[Mr. Rockhill (Rubruck, 151, note) writes: "The average load carried by a Yak is about 250
lbs. The wild Yak bull is an enormous animal, and the people of Turkestan and North Tibet credit
him with extraordinary strength. Mirza Haidar, in the Tarikhi Rashidi, says of the wild Yak
or kutás: 'This is a very wild and ferocious beast. In whatever manner it attacks one it proves
fatal. Whether it strikes with its horns, or kicks, or overthrows its victim. If it has no
opportunity of doing any of these things, it tosses its enemy with its tongue twenty gaz into
the air, and he is dead before reaching the ground. One male kutás is a load for twelve horses.
One man cannot possibly raise a shoulder of the animal.'" --Captain Deasy (In Tibet, 363) says:
"In a few places on lofty ground in Tibet we found Yaks in herds numbering from ten to thirty,
and sometimes more. Most of the animals are black, brown specimens being very rare. Their roving
herds move with great agility over the steep and stony ground, apparently enjoying the snow
and frost and wind, which seldom fail.... Yaks are capable of offering formidable resistance
to the sportsman....'"--H. C.]

The tame Yaks are never, I imagine, "caught young," as Marco says; it is a domesticated breed,
though possibly, as with buffaloes in Bengal, the breed may occasionally be refreshed by a
cross of wild blood. They are employed for riding, as beasts of burden, and in the plough.
[Lieutenant S. Turner, l.c., says, on the other hand: "They are never employed in agriculture,
but are extremely useful as beasts of burthen."--H. C.] In the higher parts of our Himalayan
provinces, and in Tibet, the Yak itself is most in use; but in the less elevated tracts several
breeds crossed with the common Indian cattle are more used. They have a variety of names according
to their precise origin. The inferior Yaks used in the plough are ugly enough, and "have more
the appearance of large shaggy bears than of oxen," but the Yak used for riding, says Hoffmeister,
"is an infinitely handsomer animal. It has a stately hump, a rich silky hanging tail nearly
reaching the ground, twisted horns, a noble bearing, and an erect head." Cunningham, too, says
that the Dso, one of the mixed breeds, is "a very handsome animal, with long shaggy hair, generally
black and white." Many of the various tame breeds appear to have the tail and back white, and
also the fringe under the body, but black and red are the prevailing colours. Some of the crossbred
cows are excellent milkers, better than either parent stock.

Notice in this passage the additional and interesting particulars given by Ramusio, e.g. the
use of the mixed breeds. "Finer than silk," is an exaggeration, or say an hyberbole, as is
the following expression, "As big as elephants," even with Ramusio's apologetic quasi. Caesar
says the Hercynian Urus was magnitudine paullo infra elephantos.

The tame Yak is used across the breadth of Mongolia. Rubruquis saw them at Karakorum, and describes
them well. Mr. Ney Elias tells me he found Yaks common everywhere along his route in Mongolia,
between the Tui river (long. circa 101°) and the upper valleys of the Kobdo near the Siberian
frontier. At Uliasut'ai they were used occasionally by Chinese settlers for drawing carts,
but he never saw them used for loads or for riding, as in Tibet. He has also seen Yaks in the
neighbourhood of Kwei-hwa-ch'eng. (Tenduc, see ch. lix. note 1.) This may be taken as the eastern
limit of the employment of the Yak; the western limit is in the highlands of Khokand.

These animals had been noticed by Cosmas [who calls them agriobous] in the 6th century, and
by Aelian in the 3rd. The latter speaks of them as black cattle with white tails, from which
fly-flappers were made for Indian kings. And the great Kalidása thus sang of the Yak, according
to a learned (if somewhat rugged) version ascribed to Dr. Mill. The poet personifies the Himálaya:--

  "For Him the large Yaks in his cold plains that bide
  Whisk here and there, playful, their tails' bushy pride,
  And evermore flapping those fans of long hair
  Which borrowed moonbeams have made splendid and fair,
  Proclaim at each stroke (what our flapping men sing)
  His title of Honour, 'The Dread Mountain King.'"

Who can forget Père Huc's inimitable picture of the hairy Yaks of their caravan, after passing
a river in the depth of winter, "walking with their legs wide apart, and bearing an enormous
load of stalactites, which hung beneath their bellies quite to the ground. The monstrous beasts
looked exactly as if they were preserved in sugar-candy." Or that other, even more striking,
of a great troop of wild Yaks, caught in the upper waters of the Kin-sha Kiang, as they swam,
in the moment of congelation, and thus preserved throughout the winter, gigantic "flies in amber."

(N. et E. XIV. 478; J. As. IX. 199; J. A. S. B. IX. 566, XXIV. 235; Shaw, p. 91; Ladak, p.
210; Geog. Magazine, April, 1874; Hoffmeister's Travels, p. 441; Rubr. 288; Ael. de Nat. An.
XV. 14; J. A. S. B. I. 342; Mrs. Sinnett's Huc, pp. 228, 235.)

NOTE 4.--Ramusio adds that the hunters seek the animal at New Moon, at which time the musk
is secreted.

The description is good except as to the four tusks, for the musk deer has canine teeth only
in the upper jaw, slender and prominent as he describes them. The flesh of the animal is eaten
by the Chinese, and in Siberia by both Tartars and Russians, but that of the males has a strong
musk flavour.

The "immense number" of these animals that existed in the Himalayan countries may be conceived
from Tavernier's statement, that on one visit to Patna, then the great Indian mart for this
article, he purchased 7673 pods of musk. These presumably came by way of Nepal; but musk pods
of the highest class were also imported from Khotan viâ Yarkand and Leh, and the lowest price
such a pod fetched at Yarkand was 250 tankas, or upwards of 4l. This import has long been extinct,
and indeed the trade in the article, except towards China, has altogether greatly declined,
probably (says Mr. Hodgson) because its repute as a medicine is becoming fast exploded. In
Sicily it is still so used, but apparently only as a sort of decent medical viaticum, for when
it is said "the Doctors have given him musk," it is as much as to say that they have given
up the patient.

["Here Marco Polo speaks of musk; musk and rhubarb (which he mentions before, Sukchur, ch.
xliii.) are the most renowned and valuable of the products of the province of Kansu, which
comparatively produces very little; the industry in both these articles is at present in the
hands of the Tanguts of that province [Su chow chi]." (Palladius, p. 18.)

Writing under date 15th February, 1892, from Lusar (coming from Sining), Mr. Rockhill says:
"The musk trade here is increasing, Cantonese and Ssu-ch'uanese traders now come here to buy
it, paying for good musk four times its weight in silver (ssu huan, as they say). The best
test of its purity is an examination of the colour. The Tibetans adulterate it by mixing tsamba
and blood with it. The best time to buy it is from the seventh to the ninth moon (latter part
of August to middle of November)." Mr. Rockhill adds in a note: "Mongols call musk owo; Tibetans
call it latsé. The best musk they say is 'white musk,' tsahan owo in Mongol, in Tibetan latsé
karpo. I do not know whether white refers to the colour of the musk itself or to that of the
hair on the skin covering the musk pouch." (Diary of a Journey, p. 71.)--H. C.]

Three species of the Moschus are found in the Mountains of Tibet, and M. Chrysogaster which
Mr. Hodgson calls "the loveliest," and which chiefly supplies the highly-prized pod called
Kághazi, or "Thin-as-paper," is almost exclusively confined to the Chinese frontier. Like the
Yak, the Moschus is mentioned by Cosmas (circa A.D. 545), and musk appears in a Greek prescription
by Aëtius of Amida, a physician practising at Constantinople about the same date.

(Martini, p. 39; Tav., Des Indes, Bk. II. ch. xxiv.; J. A. S. B. XI. 285; Davies's Rep. App.
p. ccxxxvii.; Dr. Flückiger in Schweiz. Wochenschr. für Pharmacie, 1867; Heyd, Commerce du
Levant, II. 636-640.)

NOTE 5.--The China pheasant answering best to the indications in the text, appears to be Reeves's
Pheasant. Mr. Gould has identified this bird with Marco's in his magnificent Birds of Asia,
and has been kind enough to show me a specimen which, with the body, measured 6 feet 8 inches.
The tail feathers alone, however, are said to reach to 6 and 7 feet, so that Marco's ten palms
was scarcely an exaggeration. These tail-feathers are often seen on the Chinese stage in the
cap of the hero of the drama, and also decorate the hats of certain civil functionaries.

Size is the point in which the bird fails to meet Marco's description. In that respect the
latter would rather apply to the Crossoptilon auritum, which is nearly as big as a turkey,
or to the glorious Múnál (Lopophorus impeyanus), but then that has no length of tail. The latter
seems to be the bird described by Aelian: "Magnificent cocks which have the crest variegated
and ornate like a crown of flowers, and the tail feathers not curved like a cock's, but broad
and carried in a train like a peacock's; the feathers are partly golden, and partly azure or
emerald-coloured." (Wood's Birds, 610, from which I have copied the illustration; Williams,
M. K. I. 261; Ael. De Nat. An. XVI. 2.) A species of Crossoptilon has recently been found by
Captain Prjevalsky in Alashan, the Egrigaia (as I believe) of next chapter, and one also by
Abbé Armand David at the Koko Nor.

[See on the Phasianidae family in Central and Western Asia, David et Oustalet, Oiseaux de la
Chine, 401-421; the Phasianus Reevesii or veneratus is called by the Chinese of Tung-lin, near
Peking, Djeu-ky (hen-arrow); the Crossoptilon auritum is named Ma-ky.--H. C.]

CHAPTER LVIII.

OF THE KINGDOM OF EGRIGAIA.

Starting again from Erguiul you ride eastward for eight days, and then come to a province called
EGRIGAIA, containing numerous cities and villages, and belonging to Tangut.[NOTE 1] The capital
city is called CALACHAN.[NOTE 2] The people are chiefly Idolaters, but there are fine churches
belonging to the Nestorian Christians. They are all subjects of the Great Kaan. They make in
this city great quantities of camlets of camel's wool, the finest in the world; and some of
the camlets that they make are white, for they have white camels, and these are the best of
all. Merchants purchase these stuffs here, and carry them over the world for sale.[NOTE 3]

We shall now proceed eastward from this place and enter the territory that was formerly Prester
John's.

NOTE 1.--Chinghiz invaded Tangut in all five times, viz. in 1205, 1207, 1209 (or according
to Erdmann, 1210-1211), 1218, and 1226-1227, on which last expedition he died.

A. In the third invasion, according to D'Ohsson's Chinese guide (Father Hyacinth), he took
the town of Uiraca, and the fortress of Imen, and laid siege to the capital, then called Chung-sing
or Chung-hing, now Ning-hsia.

Rashid, in a short notice of this campaign, calls the first city Erica, Erlaca, or, as Erdmann
has it, Artacki. In De Mailla it is Ulahai.

B. On the last invasion (1226), D'Ohsson's Chinese authority says that Chinghiz took Kanchau
and Suhchau, Cholo and Khola in the province of Liangcheu, and then proceeded to the Yellow
River, and invested Lingchau, south of Ning-hsia.

Erdmann, following his reading of Rashiduddin, says Chinghiz took the cities of Tangut, called
Arucki, Kachu, Sichu, and Kamichu, and besieged Deresgai (D'Ohsson, Derssekai), whilst Shidergu,
the King of Tangut, betook himself to his capital Artackin.

D'Ohsson, also professing to follow Rashid, calls this "his capital Irghai, which the Mongols
call Ircaya." Klaproth, illustrating Polo, reads "Eyircai, which the Mongols call Eyircayá."

Pétis de la Croix, relating the same campaign and professing to follow Fadlallah, i.e. Rashiduddin,
says the king "retired to his fortress of Arbaca."

C. Sanang Setzen several times mentions a city called Irghai, apparently in Tangut; but all
we can gather as to his position is that it seems to have lain east of Kanchau.

We perceive that the Arbaca of P. de la Croix, the Eyircai of Klaproth, the Uiraca of D'Ohsson,
the Artacki or Artackin of Erdmann, are all various readings or forms of the same name, and
are the same with the Chinese form Ulahai of De Mailla, and most probably the place is the
Egrigaia of Polo.

We see also that Erdmann mentions another place Aruki ([Arabic]) in connection with Kanchau
and Suhchau. This is, I suspect, the Erguiul of Polo, and perhaps the Irghai of Sanang Setzen.

Rashiduddin seems wrong in calling Ircayá the capital of the king, a circumstance which leads
Klaproth to identify it with Ning-hsia. Pauthier, identifying Ulahai with Egrigaya, shows that
the former was one of the circles of Tangut, but not that of Ning-hsia. Its position, he says,
is uncertain. Klaproth, however, inserts it in his map of Asia, in the era of Kúblái (Tabl.
Hist. pl. 22), as Ulakhai to the north of Ning-hsia, near the great bend eastward of the Hwang-Ho.
Though it may have extended in this direction, it is probable, from the name referred to in
next note, that Egrigaia or Ulahai is represented by the modern principality of ALASHAN, visited
by Prjevalsky in 1871 and 1872.

[New travels and researches enable me to say that there can be no doubt that Egrigaia = Ning-hsia.
Palladius (l.c. 18) says: "Egrigaia is Erigaia of the Mongol text. Klaproth was correct in
his supposition that it is modern Ning-h'ia. Even now the Eleuths of Alashan call Ning-h'ia,
Yargai. In M. Polo's time this department was famous for the cultivation of the Safflower (carthamus
tinctorius). [Siu t'ung kien, A.D. 1292.]" Mr. Rockhill (cf. his Diary of a Journey) writes
to me that Ning-hsia is still called Irge Khotun by Mongols at the present day. M. Bonin (J.
As., 1900. I. 585) mentions the same fact.

Palladius (19) adds: "Erigaia is not to be confounded with Urahai, often mentioned in the history
of Chingis Khan's wars with the Tangut kingdom. Urahai was a fortress in a pass of the same
name in the Alashan Mountains. Chingis Khan spent five months there (an. 1208), during which
he invaded and plundered the country in the neighbourhood. [Si hia shu shi.] The Alashan Mountains
form a semicircle 500 li in extent, and have over forty narrow passes leading to the department
of Ning-hia; the broadest and most practicable of these is now called Ch'i-mu-K'ow; it is not
more than 80 feet broad. [Ning hia ju chi.] It may be that the Urahai fortress existed near
this pass."

"From Liang-chow fu, M. Polo follows a special route, leaving the modern postal route on his
right; the road he took has, since the time of the Emperor K'ang-hi, been called the courier's
route." (Palladius, 18.)--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--Calachan, the chief town of Egrigaia, is mentioned, according to Klaproth, by Rashiduddin,
among the cities of Tangut, as KALAJÁN. The name and approximate position suggest, as just
noticed, identity with Alashan, the modern capital of which, called by Prjevalsky Dyn-yuan-yin,
stands some distance west of the Hwang-Ho, in about lat. 39°. Polo gives no data for the interval
between this and his next stage.

[The Dyn-yuan-yin of Prjevalsky is the camp of Ting-yuan-yng or Fu-ma- fu of M. Bonin, the
residence of the Si-wang (western prince), of Alashan, an abbreviation of Alade-shan (shan,
mountain in Chinese), Alade = Eleuth or Oelöt; the sister of this prince married a son of Prince
Tuan, the chief of the Boxers. (La Géographie, 1901. I. 118.) Palladius (l.c. 19) says: "Under
the name of Calachan, Polo probably means the summer residence of the Tangut kings, which was
60 li from Ning-hia, at the foot of the Alashan Mountains. It was built by the famous Tangut
king Yuen-hao, on a large scale, in the shape of a castle, in which were high terraces and
magnificent buildings. Traces of these buildings are visible to this day. There are often found
coloured tiles and iron nails 1 foot, and even 2 feet long. The last Tangut kings made this
place their permanent residence, and led there an indolent and sensual life. The Chinese name
of this residence was Ho-lan shan Li-Kung. There is sufficient reason to suppose that this
very residence is named (under the year 1226) in the Mongol text Alashai nuntuh; and in the
chronicles of the Tangut Kingdom, Halahachar, otherwise Halachar apparently in the Tangut language.
Thus M. Polo's Calachan can be identified with the Halachar of the Si hia shu shi, and can
be taken to designate the Alashan residence of the Tangut kings."--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--Among the Buraets and Chinese at Kiakhta snow-white camels, without albino character,
are often seen, and probably in other parts of Mongolia. (See Erdmann, II. 261.) Philostratus
tells us that the King of Taxila furnished white camels to Apollonius. I doubt if the present
King of Taxila, whom Anglo-Indians call the Commissioner of Ráwal Pindi, could do the like.

Cammellotti appear to have been fine woollen textures, by no means what are now called camlets,
nor were they necessarily of camel's wool, for those of Angora goat's wool were much valued.
M. Douet d'Arcq calls it "a fine stuff of wool approaching to our Cashmere, and sometimes of
silk." Indeed, as Mr. Marsh points out, the word is Arabic, and has nothing to do with Camel
in its origin; though it evidently came to be associated therewith. Khamlat is defined in F.
Johnson's Dict.: "Camelot, silk and camel's hair; also all silk or velvet, especially pily
and plushy," and Khaml is "pile or plush." Camelin was a different and inferior material. There
was till recently a considerable import of different kinds of woollen goods from this part
of China into Ladakh, Kashmir, and the northern Panjáb. [Leaving Ning-hsia, Mr. Rockhill writes
(Diary, 1892, 44): "We passed on the road a cart with Jardine and Matheson's flag, coming probably
from Chung-Wei Hsien, where camel's wool is sold in considerable quantities to foreigners.
This trade has fallen off very much in the last three or four years on account of the Chinese
middlemen rolling the wool in the dirt so as to add to its weight, and practising other tricks
on buyers."--H. C.] Among the names of these were Sling, Shirum, Gurun, and Khoza, said to
be the names of the towns in China where the goods were made. We have supposed Sling to be
Sining (note 2, ch. lvii.), but I can make nothing of the others. Cunningham also mentions
"camlets of camel's hair," under the name of Suklát, among imports from the same quarter. The
term Suklát is, however, applied in the Panjáb trade returns to broadcloth. Does not this point
to the real nature of the siclatoun of the Middle Ages? It is, indeed, often spoken of as used
for banners, which implies that it was not a heavy woollen:

  "There was mony gonfanoun
  Of gold, sendel, and siclatoun."
      (King Alisaundre, in Weber, I. 85.)

But it was also a material for ladies' robes, for quilts, leggings, housings, pavilions. Franc.
Michel does not decide what it was, only that it was generally red and wrought with gold. Dozy
renders it "silk stuff brocaded with gold"; but this seems conjectural. Dr. Rock says it was
a thin glossy silken stuff, often with a woof of gold thread, and seems to derive it from the
Arabic sakl, "polishing" (a sword), which is improbable. Perhaps the name is connected with
Sikiliyat, "Sicily."

(Marsh on Wedgwood, and on Webster in N. Y. Nation, 1867; Douet D'Arcq, p. 355; Punjab Trade
Rep., App. ccxix.-xx.; Ladak, 242; Fr.-Michel Rech. I. 221 seqq.; Dozy, Dict. des Vêtements,
etc.; Dr. Rock's Ken. Catal. xxxix.-xl.)

CHAPTER LIX.

CONCERNING THE PROVINCE OF TENDUC, AND THE DESCENDANTS OF PRESTER JOHN.

Tenduc is a province which lies towards the east, and contains numerous towns and villages;
among which is the chief city, also called TENDUC. The king of the province is of the lineage
of Prester John, George by name, and he holds the land under the Great Kaan; not that he holds
anything like the whole of what Prester John possessed.[NOTE 1] It is a custom, I may tell
you, that these kings of the lineage of Prester John always obtain to wife either daughters
of the Great Kaan or other princesses of his family.[NOTE 2]

In this province is found the stone from which Azure is made. It is obtained from a kind of
vein in the earth, and is of very fine quality.[NOTE 3] There is also a great manufacture of
fine camlets of different colours from camel's hair. The people get their living by their cattle
and tillage, as well as by trade and handicraft.

The rule of the province is in the hands of the Christians, as I have told you; but there are
also plenty of Idolaters and worshippers of Mahommet. And there is also here a class of people
called Argons, which is as much as to say in French Guasmul, or, in other words, sprung from
two different races: to wit, of the race of the Idolaters of Tenduc and of that of the worshippers
of Mahommet. They are handsomer men than the other natives of the country, and having more
ability, they come to have authority; and they are also capital merchants.[NOTE 4]

You must know that it was in this same capital city of Tenduc that Prester John had the seat
of his government when he ruled over the Tartars, and his heirs still abide there; for, as
I have told you, this King George is of his line, in fact, he is the sixth in descent from
Prester John.

Here also is what we call the country of GOG and MAGOG; they, however, call it UNG and MUNGUL,
after the names of two races of people that existed in that Province before the migration of
the Tartars. Ung was the title of the people of the country, and Mungul a name sometimes applied
to the Tartars.[NOTE 5]

And when you have ridden seven days eastward through this province you get near the provinces
of Cathay. You find throughout those seven days' journey plenty of towns and villages, the
inhabitants of which are Mahommetans, but with a mixture also of Idolaters and Nestorian Christians.
They get their living by trade and manufactures; weaving those fine cloths of gold which are
called Nasich and Naques, besides silk stuffs of many other kinds. For just as we have cloths
of wool in our country, manufactured in a great variety of kinds, so in those regions they
have stuffs of silk and gold in like variety.[NOTE 6]

All this region is subject to the Great Kaan. There is a city you come to called SINDACHU,
where they carry on a great many crafts such as provide for the equipment of the Emperor's
troops. In a mountain of the province there is a very good silver mine, from which much silver
is got: the place is called YDIFU. The country is well stocked with game, both beast and bird.[NOTE
7]

Now we will quit that province and go three days' journey forward.

NOTE 1.--Marco's own errors led commentators much astray about Tanduc or Tenduc, till Klaproth
put the matter in its true light.

Our traveller says that Tenduc had been the seat of Aung Khan's sovereignty; he has already
said that it had been the scene of his final defeat, and he tells us that it was still the
residence of his descendants in their reduced state. To the last piece of information he can
speak as a witness, and he is corroborated by other evidence; but the second statement we have
seen to be almost certainly erroneous; about the first we cannot speak positively.

Klaproth pointed out the true position of Tenduc in the vicinity of the great northern bend
of the Hwang-Ho, quoting Chinese authorities to show that Thianté or Thianté-Kiun was the name
of a district or group of towns to the north of that bend, a name which he supposes to be the
original of Polo's Tenduc. The general position entirely agrees with Marco's indications; it
lies on his way eastward from Tangut towards Chagannor, and Shangtu (see ch. lx., lxi.), whilst
in a later passage (Bk. II. ch. lxiv.), he speaks of the Caramoran or Hwang-Ho in its lower
course, as "coming from the lands of Prester John."

M. Pauthier finds severe fault with Klaproth's identification of the name Tenduc with the Thianté
of the Chinese, belonging to a city which had been destroyed 300 years before, whilst he himself
will have that name to be a corruption of Tathung. The latter is still the name of a city and
Fu of northern Shansi, but in Mongol time its circle of administration extended beyond the
Chinese wall, and embraced territory on the left of the Hwang-Ho, being in fact the first Lu,
or circle, entered on leaving Tangut, and therefore, Pauthier urges, the "Kingdom of Tanduc"
of our text.

I find it hard to believe that Marco could get no nearer TATHUNG than in the form of Tanduc
or Tenduc. The origin of the last may have been some Mongol name, not recovered. But it is
at least conceivable that a name based on the old Thianté-Kiun might have been retained among
the Tartars, from whom, and not from the Chinese, Polo took his nomenclature. Thianté had been,
according to Pauthier's own quotations, the military post of Tathung; Klaproth cites a Chinese
author of the Mongol era, who describes the Hwang-Ho as passing through the territory of the
ancient Chinese city of Thianté; and Pauthier's own quotation from the Modern Imperial Geography
seems to imply that a place in that territory was recently known as Fung-chau-Thianté-Kiun.

In the absence of preciser indications, it is reasonable to suppose that the Plain of Tenduc,
with its numerous towns and villages, was the extensive and well-cultivated plain which stretches
from the Hwang-Ho, past the city of Kuku-Khotan, or "Blue Town." This tract abounds in the
remains of cities attributed to the Mongol era. And it is not improbable that the city of Tenduc
was Kuku-Khotan itself, now called by the Chinese Kwei-hwa Ch'eng, but which was known to them
in the Middle Ages as Tsing-chau, and to which we find the Kin Emperor of Northern China sending
an envoy in 1210 to demand tribute from Chinghiz. The city is still an important mart and a
centre of Lamaitic Buddhism, being the residence of a Khutukhtu, or personage combining the
characters of cardinal and voluntarily re-incarnate saint, as well as the site of five great
convents and fifteen smaller ones. Gerbillon notes that Kuku Khotan had been a place of great
trade and population during the Mongol Dynasty.

[The following evidence shows, I think, that we must look for the city of Tenduc to Tou Ch'eng
or Toto Ch'eng, called Togto or Tokto by the Mongols. Mr. Rockhill (Diary, 18) passed through
this place, and 5 li south of it, reached on the Yellow River, Ho-k'ou (in Chinese) or Dugus
or Dugei (in Mongol). Gerbillon speaks of Toto in his sixth voyage in Tartary. (Du Halde, IV.
345.) Mr. Rockhill adds that he cannot but think that Yule overlooked the existence of Togto
when he identified Kwei-hwa Ch'eng with Tenduc. Tou Ch'eng is two days' march west of Kwei-hwa
Ch'eng, "On the loess hill behind this place are the ruins of a large camp, Orch'eng, in all
likelihood the site of the old town" (l.c. 18). M. Bonin (J. As. XV. 1900, 589) shares Mr.
Rockhill's opinion. From Kwei-hwa Ch'eng, M. Bonin went by the valley of the Hei Shui River
to the Hwang Ho; at the junction of the two rivers stands the village of Ho-k'au (Ho-k'ou)
south of the small town To Ch'eng, surmounted by the ruins of the old square Mongol stronghold
of Tokto, the walls of which are still in a good state of preservation.--(La Géographie, I.
1901, p. 116.)

On the other hand, it is but fair to state that Palladius (21) says: "The name of Tenduc obviously
corresponds to T'ien-te Kiun, a military post, the position of which Chinese geographers identify
correctly with that of the modern Kuku-hoton (Ta tsing y t'ung chi, ch. on the Tumots of Kuku-hoton).
The T'ien-te Kiun post existed under this name during the K'itan (Liao) and Kin Dynasties up
to Khubilai's time (1267); when under the name of Fung-chow it was left only a district town
in the department of Ta-t'ung fu. The Kin kept in T'ien-te Kiun a military chief, Chao-t'ao-
shi, whose duty it was to keep an eye on the neighbouring tribes, and to use, if needed, military
force against them. The T'ien-te Kiun district was hardly greater in extent than the modern
aïmak of Tumot, into which Kuku-hoton was included since the 16th century, i.e. 370 li from
north to south, and 400 li from east to west; during the Kin it had a settled population, numbering
22,600 families."

In a footnote, Palladius refers to the geographical parts of the Liao shi, Kin shi, and Yuen
shi, and adds: "M. Polo's commentators are wrong in suspecting an anachronism in his statement,
or trying to find Tenduc elsewhere."

We find in the North-China Herald (29th April, 1887, p. 474) the following note from the Chinese
Times: "There are records that the position of this city [Kwei-hwa Ch'eng] was known to the
builder of the Great Wall. From very remote times, it appears to have been a settlement of
nomadic tribes. During the last 1000 years it has been alternately possessed by the Mongols
and Chinese. About A.D. 1573, Emperor Wan-Li reclaimed it, enclosed a space within walls, and
called it Kwei-hwa Ch'êng."

Potanin left Peking on the 13th May, 1884, for Kuku-khoto (or Kwei-hwa-Ch'eng), passing over
the triple chain of mountains dividing the Plain of Peking from that on which Kuku-khoto is
situate. The southernmost of these three ridges bears the Chinese name of Wu-tai-shan, "the
mountain of five sacrificial altars," after the group of five peaks, the highest of which is
10,000 feet above the sea, a height not exceeded by any mountain in Northern China. At its
southern foot lies a valley remarkable for its Buddhist monasteries and shrines, one of which,
"Shing-tung-tze," is entirely made of brass, whence its name.

"Kuku-Khoto is the depôt for the Mongolian trade with China. It contains two hundred tea-shops,
five theatres, fifteen temples, and six Mongol monasteries. Among its sights are the Buddhist
convent of Utassa, with its five pinnacles and has-reliefs, the convent of Fing-sung-si, and
a temple containing a statue erected in honour of the Chinese general, Pai-jin- jung, who avenged
an insult offered to the Emperor of China." (Proc. R. G. S. IX. 1887, p. 233.)--H. C.]

A passage in Rashiduddin does seem to intimate that the Kerait, the tribe of Aung Khan, alias
Prester John, did occupy territory close to the borders of Cathay or Northern China; but neither
from Chinese nor from other Oriental sources has any illustration yet been produced of the
existence of Aung Khan's descendants as rulers in this territory under the Mongol emperors.
There is, however, very positive evidence to that effect supplied by other European travellers,
to whom the fables prevalent in the West had made the supposed traces of Prester John a subject
of strong interest.

Thus John of Monte Corvino, afterwards Archbishop of Cambaluc or Peking, in his letter of January,
1305, from that city, speaks of Polo's King George in these terms: "A certain king of this
part of the world, by name George, belonging to the sect of the Nestorian Christians, and of
the illustrious lineage of that great king who was called Prester John of India, in the first
year of my arrival here [circa 1295-1296] attached himself to me, and, after he had been converted
by me to the verity of the Catholic faith, took the Lesser Orders, and when I celebrated mass
used to attend me wearing his royal robes. Certain others of the Nestorians on this account
accused him of apostacy, but he brought over a great part of his people with him to the true
Catholic faith, and built a church of royal magnificence in honour of our God, of the Holy
Trinity, and of our Lord, the Pope, giving it the name of the Roman Church. This King George,
six years ago, departed to the Lord, a true Christian, leaving as his heir a son scarcely out
of the cradle, and who is now nine years old. And after King George's death, his brothers,
perfidious followers of the errors of Nestorius, perverted again all those whom he had brought
over to the Church, and carried them back to their original schismatical creed. And being all
alone, and not able to leave His Majesty the Cham, I could not go to visit the church above-mentioned,
which is twenty days' journey distant.... I had been in treaty with the late King George, if
he had lived, to translate the whole Latin ritual, that it might be sung throughout the extent
of his territory; and whilst he was alive I used to celebrate mass in his church according
to the Latin rite." The distance mentioned, twenty days' journey from Peking, suits quite well
with the position assigned to Tenduc, and no doubt the Roman Church was in the city to which
Polo gives that name.

Friar Odoric, travelling from Peking towards Shensi, about 1326-1327, also visits the country
of Prester John, and gives to its chief city the name of Tozan, in which perhaps we may trace
Tathung. He speaks as if the family still existed in authority.

King George appears again in Marco's own book (Bk. IV. ch. ii.) as one of Kúblái's generals
against Kaidu, in a battle fought near Karakorúm. (Journ. As. IX. 299 seqq.; D'Ohsson, I. 123;
Huc's Tartary, etc. I. 55 seqq.; Koeppen, II. 381; Erdmann's Temudschin; Gerbillon in Astley,
IV. 670; Cathay, pp. 146 and 199 seqq.)

NOTE 2.--Such a compact is related to have existed reciprocally between the family of Chinghiz
and that of the chief of the Kunguráts; but I have not found it alleged of the Kerait family
except by Friar Odoric. We find, however, many princesses of this family married into that
of Chinghiz. Thus three nieces of Aung Khan became wives respectively of Chinghiz himself and
of his sons Juji and Tului; she who was the wife of the latter, Serkukteni Bigi, being the
mother of Mangú, Hulaku, and Kúblái. Dukuz Khatun, the Christian wife of Hulaku, was a grand-daughter
of Aung Khan.

The name George, of Prester John's representative, may have been actually Jirjis, Yurji, or
some such Oriental form of Georgius. But it is possible that the title was really Gurgán, "Son-in-Law,"
a title of honour conferred on those who married into the imperial blood, and that this title
may have led to the statements of Marco and Odoric about the nuptial privileges of the family.
Gurgán in this sense was one of the titles borne by Timur.[1]

[The following note by the Archimandrite Palladius (Eluc. 21-23) throws a great light on the
relations between the families of Chinghiz Khan and of Prester John.

"T'ien-te Kiun was bounded on the north by the Yn-shan Mountains, in and beyond which was settled
the Sha-t'o Tu-K'iu tribe, i.e. Tu-K'iu of the sandy desert. The K'itans, when they conquered
the northern borders of China, brought also under their rule the dispersed family of these
Tu- K'iu. With the accession of the Kin, a Wang Ku [Ongot] family made its appearance as the
ruling family of those tribes; it issued from those Sha- t'o Tu-K'iu, who once reigned in the
north of China as the How T'ang Dynasty (923-936 A.D.). It split into two branches, the Wang-Ku
of the Yn- shan, and the Wang-Ku of the Lin-t'ao (west of Kan-su). The Kin removed the latter
branch to Liao-tung (in Manchuria). The Yn-shan Wang-Ku guarded the northern borders of China
belonging to the Kin, and watched their herds. When the Kin, as a protection against the inroads
of the tribes of the desert, erected a rampart, or new wall, from the boundary of the Tángut
Kingdom down to Manchuria, they intrusted the defence of the principal places of the Yn-shan
portion of the wall to the Wang-Ku, and transferred there also the Liao-tung Wang-Ku. At the
time Chingiz Khan became powerful, the chief of the Wang-Ku of the Yn-shan was Alahush; and
at the head of the Liao-tung Wang-Ku stood Pa-sao-ma-ie-li. Alahush proved a traitor to the
Kin, and passed over to Chinghiz Khan; for this he was murdered by the malcontents of his family,
perhaps by Pa-sao-ma-ie-li, who remained true to the Kin. Later on, Chingiz Khan married one
of his daughters to the son of Alahush, by name Po-yao-ho, who, however, had no children by
her. He had three sons by a concubine, the eldest of whom, Kiun-pu-hwa, was married to Kuyuk
Khan's daughter. Kiun-pu-hwa's son, Ko- li-ki-sze, had two wives, both of imperial blood. During
a campaign against Haidu, he was made prisoner in 1298, and murdered. His title and dignities
passed over in A.D. 1310 to his son Chuan. Nothing is known of Alahush's later descendants;
they probably became entirely Chinese, like their relatives of the Liao-tung branch.

"The Wang-Ku princes were thus de jure the sons-in-law of the Mongol Khans, and they had, moreover,
the hereditary title of Kao-t'ang princes (Kao-t'ang wang); it is very possible that they had
their residence in ancient T'ien-te Kiun (although no mention is made of it in history), just
as at present the Tumot princes reside in Kuku-hoton. Their Georgius is undoubtedly Ko-li-ki-sze,
Alahush's great-grandson. That his name is a Christian one is confirmed by other testimonies;
thus in the Asu (Azes) regiment of the Khan's guards was Ko-li-ki-sze, aliàs Kow-r-ki (d. 1311),
and his son Ti-mi-ti-r. There is no doubt that one of them was Georgius, and the other Demetrius.
Further, in the description of Chin-Kiang in the time of the Yuen, mention is made of Ko-li-ki-sze
Ye-li-ko-wen, i.e. Ko-li-ki-sze, the Christian, and of his son Lu-ho (Luke).

"Ko-li-ki-sze of Wang-ku is much praised in history for his valour and his love for Confucian
doctrine; he had in consequence of a special favour of the Khan two Mongol princesses for wives
at the same time (which is rather difficult to conciliate with his being a Christian). The
time of his death is correctly indicated in a letter of Joannes de M. Corvino of the year 1305:
ante sex annos migravit ad Dominum. He left a young son Chu-an, who probably is the Joannes
of the letter of Ioannes (Giovani) de M. Corvino, so called propter nomen meum, says the missionary.
In another Wang-ku branch, Si-li-ki-sze reminds one also of the Christian name Sergius."--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--"The Lapis Armenus, or Azure,... is produced in the district of Tayton-fu (i.e. Tathung),
belonging to Shansi." (Du Halde in Astley, IV. 309; see also Martini, p. 36.)

NOTE 4.--This is a highly interesting passage, but difficult, from being corrupt in the G.
Text, and over-curt in Pauthier's MSS. In the former it runs as follows: "Hil hi a une jenerasion
de jens que sunt appellés Argon, qe vaut à dire en françois Guasmul, ce est à dire qu'il sunt
né del deus generasions de la lengnée des celz Argon Tenduc et des celz reduc et des celz que
aorent Maomet. Il sunt biaus homes plus que le autre dou païs et plus sajes et plus mercaant."
Pauthier's text runs thus: "Il ont une generation de gens, ces Crestiens qui ont la Seigneurie,
qui s'appellent Argon, qui vaut a dire Gasmul; et sont plus beaux hommes que les autres mescreans
et plus sages. Et pour ce ont il la seigneurie et sont bons marchans." And Ramusio: "Vi è anche
una sorte di gente che si chiamano Argon, per che sono nati di due generazioni, cioè da quella
di Tenduc che adorano gl' idoli, e da quella che osservano la legge di Macometto. E questi
sono i piu belli uomini che si trovino in quel paese e più savi, e più accorti nella mercanzia."

In the first quotation the definition of the Argon as sprung de la lengnée, etc., is not intelligible
as it stands, but seems to be a corruption of the same definition that has been rendered by
Ramusio, viz. that the Argon were half-castes between the race of the Tenduc Buddhists and
that of the Mahomedan settlers. These two texts do not assert that the Argon were Christians.
Pauthier's text at first sight seems to assert this, and to identify them with the Christian
rulers of the province. But I doubt if it means more than that the Christian rulers have under
them a people called Argon, etc. The passage has been read with a bias, owing to an erroneous
interpretation of the word Argon in the teeth of Polo's explanation of it.

Klaproth, I believe, first suggested that Argon represents the term Arkhaiún, which is found
repeatedly applied to Oriental Christians, or their clergy, in the histories of the Mongol
era.[2] No quite satisfactory explanation has been given of the origin of that term. It is
barely possible that it may be connected with that which Polo uses here; but he tells us as
plainly as possible that he means by the term, not a Christian, but a half-breed.

And in this sense the word is still extant in Tibet, probably also in Eastern Turkestan, precisely
in Marco's form, ARGON. It is applied in Ladak, as General Cunningham tells us, specifically
to the mixt race produced by the marriages of Kashmirian immigrants with Bot (Tibetan) women.
And it was apparently to an analogous cross between Caucasians and Turanians that the term
was applied in Tenduc. Moorcroft also speaks of this class in Ladak, calling them Argands.
Mr. Shaw styles them "a set of ruffians called Argoons, half-bred between Toorkistan fathers
and Ladak mothers.... They possess all the evil qualities of both races, without any of their
virtues." And the author of the Dabistan, speaking of the Tibetan Lamas, says: "Their king,
if his mother be not of royal blood, is by them called Arghún, and not considered their true
king." [See p. 291, my reference to Wellby's Tibet.--H. C.] Cunningham says the word is probably
Turki, [Arabic], Arghún, "Fair," "not white," as he writes to me, "but ruddy or pink, and therefore
'fair.' Arghún is both Turki and Mogholi, and is applied to all fair children, both male and
female, as Arghun Beg, Arghuna Khatun," etc.[3] We find an Arghún tribe named in Timur's Institutes,
which probably derived its descent from such half-breeds. And though the Arghún Dynasty of
Kandahar and Sind claimed their descent and name from Arghún Khan of Persia, this may have
had no other foundation.

There are some curious analogies between these Argons of whom Marco speaks and those Mahomedans
of Northern China and Chinese Turkestan lately revolted against Chinese authority, who are
called Tungani, or as the Russians write it Dungen, a word signifying, according to Professor
Vámbéry, in Turki, "a convert."[4] These Tungani are said by one account to trace their origin
to a large body of Uighúrs, who were transferred to the vicinity of the Great Wall during the
rule of the Thang Dynasty (7th to 10th century). Another tradition derives their origin from
Samarkand. And it is remarkable that Rashiduddin speaks of a town to the west or north-west
of Peking, "most of the inhabitants of which are natives of Samarkand, and have planted a number
of gardens in the Samarkand style."[5] The former tradition goes on to say that marriages were
encouraged between the Western settlers and the Chinese women. In after days these people followed
the example of their kindred in becoming Mahomedans, but they still retained the practice of
marrying Chinese wives, though bringing up their children in Islam. The Tungani are stated
to be known in Central Asia for their commercial integrity; and they were generally selected
by the Chinese for police functionaries. They are passionate and ready to use the knife; but
are distinguished from both Manchus and Chinese by their strength of body and intelligent countenances.
Their special feature is their predilection for mercantile speculations.

Looking to the many common features of the two accounts--the origin as a half-breed between
Mahomedans of Western extraction and Northern Chinese, the position in the vicinity of the
Great Wall, the superior physique, intelligence, and special capacity for trade, it seems highly
probable that the Tungani of our day are the descendants of Marco's Argons. Otherwise we may
at least point to these analogies as a notable instance of like results produced by like circumstances
on the same scene; in fact, of history repeating itself. (See The Dungens, by Mr. H. K. Heins,
in the Russian Military Journal for August, 1866, and Western China, in the Ed. Review for
April, 1868;[6] Cathay, p. 261.)

[Palladius (pp. 23-24) says that "it is impossible to admit that Polo had meant to designate
by this name the Christians, who were called by the Mongols Erkeun [Ye li ke un]. He was well
acquainted with the Christians in China, and of course could not ignore the name under which
they were generally known to such a degree as to see in it a designation of a cross-race of
Mahommetans and heathens." From the Yuen ch'ao pi shi and the Yuen shi, Palladius gives some
examples which refer to Mahommedans.

Professor Devéria (Notes d'Épig. 49) says that the word [Greek: Árchon] was used by the Mongol
Government as a designation for the members of the Christian clergy at large; the word is used
between 1252 and 1315 to speak of Christian priests by the historians of the Yuen Dynasty;
it is not used before nor is it to be found in the Si-ngan-fu inscription (l.c. 82). Mr. E.
H. Parker (China Review, xxiv. p. 157) supplies a few omissions in Devéria's paper; we note
among others: "Ninth moon of 1329. Buddhist services ordered to be held by the Uighúr priests,
and by the Christians [Ye li ke un]."

Captain Wellby writes (Unknown Tibet, p. 32): "We impressed into our service six other muleteers,
four of them being Argoons, who are really half-castes, arising from the merchants of Turkestan
making short marriages with the Ladakhi women."--H. C.]

Our author gives the odd word Guasmul as the French equivalent of Argon. M. Pauthier has first,
of Polo's editors, given the true explanation from Ducange. The word appears to have been in
use in the Levant among the Franks as a name for the half-breeds sprung from their own unions
with Greek women. It occurs three times in the history of George Pachymeres. Thus he says (Mich.
Pal. III. 9), that the Emperor Michael "depended upon the Gasmuls, or mixt breeds ([Greek:
symmíktoi]), which is the sense of this word of the Italian tongue, for these were born of
Greeks and Italians, and sent them to man his ships; for the race in question inherited at
once the military wariness and quick wit of the Greeks, and the dash and pertinacity of the
Latins." Again (IV. 26) he speaks of these "Gasmuls, whom a Greek would call [Greek: digeneis],
men sprung from Greek mothers and Italian fathers." Nicephorus Gregoras also relates how Michael
Palaeologus, to oppose the projects of Baldwin for the recovery of his fortunes, manned 60
galleys, chiefly with the tribe of Gasmuls ([Greek: génos tou Gasmoulikou]), to whom he assigns
the same characteristics as Pachymeres. (IV. v. 5, also VI. iii. 3, and XIV. x. 2.) One MS.
of Nicetas Choniates also, in his annals of Manuel Comnenus (see Paris ed. p. 425), speaks
of "the light troops whom we call Basmuls." Thus it would seem that, as in the analogous case
of the Turcopuli, sprung from Turk fathers and Greek mothers, their name had come to be applied
technically to a class of troops. According to Buchon, the laws of the Venetians in Candia
mention, as different races in that island, the Vasmulo, Latino, Blaco, and Griego.

Ducange, in one of his notes on Joinville, says: "During the time that the French possessed
Constantinople, they gave the name of Gas-moules to those who were born of French fathers and
Greek mothers; or more probably Gaste-moules, by way of derision, as if such children by those
irregular marriages ... had in some sort debased the wombs of their mothers!" I have little
doubt (pace tanti viri) that the word is in a Gallicized form the same with the surviving Italian
Guazzabúglio, a hotch-potch, or mish-mash. In Davanzati's Tacitus, the words "Colluviem illam
nationum" (Annal. II. 55) are rendered "quello guazzabuglio di nazioni," in which case we come
very close to the meaning assigned to Guasmul. The Italians are somewhat behind in matters
of etymology, and I can get no light from them on the history of this word. (See Buchon, Chroniques
Etrangères, p. xv.; Ducange, Gloss. Graecitatis, and his note on Joinville, in Bohn's Chron.
of the Crusades, 466.)

NOTE 5.--It has often been cast in Marco's teeth that he makes no mention of the Great Wall
of China, and that is true; whilst the apologies made for the omission have always seemed to
me unsatisfactory. [I find in Sir G. Staunton's account of Macartney's Embassy (II. p. 185)
this most amusing explanation of the reason why Marco Polo did not mention the wall: "A copy
of Marco Polo's route to China, taken from the Doge's Library at Venice, is sufficient to decide
this question. By this route it appears that, in fact, that traveller did not pass through
Tartary to Pekin, but that after having followed the usual track of the caravans, as far to
the eastward from Europe as Samarcand and Cashgar, he bent his course to the south-east across
the River Ganges to Bengal (!), and, keeping to the southward of the Thibet mountains, reached
the Chinese province of Shensee, and through the adjoining province of Shansee to the capital,
without interfering with the line of the Great Wall."--H. C.] We shall see presently that the
Great Wall is spoken of by Marco's contemporaries Rashiduddin and Abulfeda. Yet I think, if
we read "between the lines," we shall see reason to believe that the Wall was in Polo's mind
at this point of the dictation, whatever may have been his motive for withholding distincter
notice of it.[7] I cannot conceive why he should say: "Here is what we call the country of
Gog and Magog," except as intimating "Here we are beside the GREAT WALL known as the Rampart
of Gog and Magog," and being there he tries to find a reason why those names should have been
applied to it. Why they were really applied to it we have already seen. (Supra, ch. iv. note
3.) Abulfeda says: "The Ocean turns northward along the east of China, and then expands in
the same direction till it passes China, and comes opposite to the Rampart of Yájúj and Májúj;"
whilst the same geographer's definition of the boundaries of China exhibits that country as
bounded on the west by the Indo-Chinese wildernesses; on the south, by the seas; on the east,
by the Eastern Ocean; on the north, by the land of Yájúj and Májúj, and other countries unknown.
Ibn Batuta, with less accurate geography in his head than Abulfeda, maugre his travels, asks
about the Rampart of Gog and Magog (Sadd Yájúj wa Majúj) when he is at Sin Kalán, i.e. Canton,
and, as might be expected, gets little satisfaction.

Apart from this interesting point Marsden seems to be right in the general bearing of his explanation
of the passage, and I conceive that the two classes of people whom Marco tries to identify
with Gog and Magog do substantially represent the two genera or species, TURKS and MONGOLS,
or, according to another nomenclature used by Rashiduddin, the White and Black Tartars. To
the latter class belonged Chinghiz and his MONGOLS proper, with a number of other tribes detailed
by Rashiduddin, and these I take to be in a general way the MUNGUL of our text. The Ung on
the other hand, are the UNG-kut, the latter form being presumably only the Mongol plural of
UNG. The Ung-kút were a Turk tribe who were vassals of the Kin Emperors of Cathay, and were
intrusted with the defence of the Wall of China, or an important portion of it, which was called
by the Mongols Ungu, a name which some connect with that of the tribe. [See note pp. 288-9.]
Erdmann indeed asserts that the wall by which the Ung-kut dwelt was not the Great Wall, but
some other. There are traces of other great ramparts in the steppes north of the present wall.
But Erdmann's arguments seem to me weak in the extreme.

[Mr. Rockhill (Rubruck, p. 112) writes: "The earliest mention I have found of the name Mongol
in Oriental works occurs in the Chinese annals of the After T'ang period (A.D. 923-934), where
it occurs in the form Meng-ku. In the annals of the Liao Dynasty (A.D. 916-1125) it is found
under the form Meng-ku-li. The first occurrence of the name in the Tung chien kang mu is, however,
in the 6th year Shao-hsing of Kao-tsung of the Sung (A.D. 1136). It is just possible that we
may trace the word back a little earlier than the After T'ang period, and that the Meng-wa
(or ngo as this character may have been pronounced at the time), a branch of the Shih-wei,
a Tungusic or Kitan people living around Lake Keule, to the east of the Baikal, and along the
Kerulun, which empties into it, during the 7th and subsequent centuries, and referred to in
the T'ang shu (Bk. 219), is the same as the later Meng-ku. Though I have been unable to find,
as stated by Howorth (History, i. pt. I. 28), that the name Meng-ku occurs in the T'ang shu,
his conclusion that the northern Shih-wei of that time constituted the Mongol nation proper
is very likely correct.... I. J. Schmidt (Ssanang Setzen, 380) derives the name Mongol from
mong, meaning 'brave, daring, bold,' while Rashiduddin says it means 'simple, weak' (d'Ohsson,
i. 22). The Chinese characters used to transcribe the name mean 'dull, stupid,' and 'old, ancient,'
but they are used purely phonetically.... The Mongols of the present day are commonly called
by the Chinese Ta-tzu, but this name is resented by the Mongols as opprobrious, though it is
but an abbreviated form of the name Ta-ta-tzu, in which, according to Rubruck, they once gloried."--H.
C.]

Vincent of Beauvais has got from some of his authorities a conception of the distinction of
the Tartars into two races, to which, however, he assigns no names: "Sunt autem duo genera
Tartarorum, diversa quidem habentia idiomata, sed unicam legem ac ritum, sicut Franci et Theutonici."
But the result of his effort to find a realisation of Gog and Magog is that he makes Guyuk
Kaan into Gog, and Mangu Kaan into Magog. Even the intelligent Friar Ricold says of the Tartars:
"They say themselves that they are descended from Gog and Magog: and on this account they are
called Mogoli, as if from a corruption of Magogoli." (Abulfeda in Büsching, IV. 140, 274-275;
I. B. IV. 274; Golden Horde, 34, 68; Erdmann, 241-242, 257-258; Timk. I. 259, 263, 268; Vinc.
Bellov. Spec. Hist. XXIX. 73, XXXI. 32-34; Pereg. Quat. 118; Not. et Ext. II. 536.)

NOTE 6.--The towns and villages were probably those immediately north of the Great Wall, between
112° and 115° East longitude, of which many remains exist, ascribed to the time of the Yuen
or Mongol Dynasty. This tract, between the Great Wall and the volcanic plateau of Mongolia,
is extensively colonised by Chinese, and has resumed the flourishing aspect that Polo describes.
It is known now as the Ku-wei, or extramural region.

[After Kalgan, Captain Younghusband, on the 12th April, 1886, "passed through the [outer] Great
Wall ... entering what Marco Polo calls the land of Gog and Magog. For the next two days I
passed through a hilly country inhabited by Chinese, though it really belongs to Mongolia;
but on the 14th I emerged on to the real steppes, which are the characteristic features of
Mongolia Proper." (Proc. R. G. S. X., 1888, p. 490.)--H. C.]

Of the cloths called nakh and nasij we have spoken before (supra ch. vi. note 4). These stuffs,
or some such as these, were, I believe, what the mediaeval writers called Tartary cloth, not
because they were made in Tartary, but because they were brought from China and its borders
through the Tartar dominions; as we find that for like reason they were sometimes called stuffs
of Russia. Dante alludes to the supposed skill of Turks and Tartars in weaving gorgeous stuffs,
and Boccaccio, commenting thereon, says that Tartarian cloths are so skilfully woven that no
painter with his brush could equal them. Maundevile often speaks of cloths of Tartary (e.g.
pp. 175, 247). So also Chaucer:

  "On every trumpe hanging a broad banere Of fine Tartarium."

Again, in the French inventory of the Garde-Meuble of 1353 we find two pieces of Tartary, one
green and the other red, priced at 15 crowns each. (Flower and Leaf, 211; Dante, Inf. XVII.
17, and Longfellow, p. 159; Douet d'Arcq, p. 328; Fr.-Michel, Rech. I. 315, II. 166 seqq.)

NOTE 7.--SINDACHU (Sindacui, Suidatui, etc., of the MSS.) is SIUEN-HWA-FU, called under the
Kin Dynasty Siuen-te-chau, more than once besieged and taken by Chinghiz. It is said to have
been a summer residence of the later Mongol Emperors, and fine parks full of grand trees remain
on the western side. It is still a large town and the capital of a Fu, about 25 miles south
of the Gate on the Great Wall at Chang Kia Kau, which the Mongols and Russians call Kalgan.
There is still a manufacture of felt and woollen articles here.

[Mr. Rockhill writes to me that this place is noted for the manufacture of buckskins.--H. C.]

Ydifu has not been identified. But Baron Richthofen saw old mines north-east of Kalgan, which
used to yield argentiferous galena; and Pumpelly heard of silver-mines near Yuchau, in the
same department.

[In the Yuen-shi it is "stated that there were gold and silver mines in the districts of Siuen-te-chow
and Yuchow, as well as in the Kiming shan Mountains. These mines were worked by the Government
itself up to 1323, when they were transferred to private enterprise. Marco Polo's Ydifu is
probably a copyist's error, and stands instead of Yuchow." (Palladius, 24, 25.)--H. C.]

[1] Mr. Ney Elias favours me with a curious but tantalising communication
    on this subject: "An old man called on me at Kwei-hwa Ch'eng (Tenduc),
    who said he was neither Chinaman, Mongol, nor Mahomedan, and lived on
    ground a short distance to the north of the city, especially allotted
    to his ancestors by the Emperor, and where there now exist several
    families of the same origin. He then mentioned the connection of his
    family with that of the Emperor, but in what way I am not clear, and
    said that he ought to be, or had been, a prince. Other people coming
    in, he was interrupted and went away.... He was not with me more than
    ten minutes, and the incident is a specimen of the difficulty in
    obtaining interesting information, except by mere chance.... The idea
    that struck me was, that he was perhaps a descendant of King George of
    Tenduc; for I had your M. P. before me, and had been inquiring as much
    as I dared about subjects it suggested.... At Kwei-hwa Ch'eng I was
    very closely spied, and my servant was frequently told to warn me
    against asking too many questions."

    I should mention that Oppert, in his very interesting monograph, Der
    Presbyter Johannes, refuses to recognise the Kerait chief at all in
    that character, and supposes Polo's King George to be the
    representative of a prince of the Liao (supra, p. 205), who, as we
    learn from De Mailla's History, after the defeat of the Kin, in which
    he had assisted Chinghiz, settled in Liaotung, and received from the
    conqueror the title of King of the Liao. This seems to me
    geographically and otherwise quite inadmissible.

[2] The term Arkaiun, or Arkaun, in this sense, occurs in the Armenian
    History of Stephen Orpelian, quoted by St. Martin. The author of the
    Tárikh Jahán Kushai, cited by D'Ohsson, says that Christians were
    called by the Mongols Arkáún. When Hulaku invested Baghdad we are
    told that he sent a letter to the Judges, Shaikhs, Doctors and
    Arkauns, promising to spare such as should act peaceably. And in the
    subsequent sack we hear that no houses were spared except those of a
    few Arkauns and foreigners. In Rashiduddin's account of the Council
    of State at Peking, we are told that the four Fanchan, or Ministers
    of the Second Class, were taken from the four nations of Tájiks,
    Cathayans, Uighúrs, and Arkaun. Sabadin Arkaun was the name of one
    of the Envoys sent by Arghun Khan of Persia to the Pope in 1288.
    Traces of the name appear also in Chinese documents of the Mongol era,
    as denoting some religious body. Some of these have been quoted by
    Mr. Wylie; but I have seen no notice taken of a very curious extract
    given by Visdelou. This states that Kúblái in 1289 established a Board
    of nineteen chief officers to have surveillance of the affairs of the
    Religion of the Cross, of the Marha, the Siliepan, and the
    Yelikhawen. This Board was raised to a higher rank in 1315: and at
    that time 72 minor courts presiding over the religion of the
    Yelikhawen existed under its supervision. Here we evidently have the
    word Arkhaiun in a Chinese form; and we may hazard the suggestion
    that Marha, Siliepan and Yelikhawen meant respectively the
    Armenian, Syrian, or Jacobite, and Nestorian Churches. (St. Martin,
    Mém. II. 133, 143, 279; D'Ohsson, II. 264; Ilchan, I. 150, 152;
    Cathay, 264; Acad. VII. 359; Wylie in J. As. V. xix. 406. Suppt.
    to D'Herbelot, 142.)

[3] The word is not in Zenker or Pavet de Courteille.

[4] Mr. Shaw writes Toongânee. The first mention of this name that I
    know of is in Izzat Ullah's Journal. (Vide J. R. A. S. VII. 310.)
    The people are there said to have got the name from having first
    settled in Tungan. Tung-gan is in the same page the name given to
    the strong city of T'ung Kwan on the Hwang-ho. (See Bk. II. ch. xli.
    note 1.) A variety of etymologies have been given, but Vámbéry's seems
    the most probable.

[5] Probably no man could now say what this means. But the following note
    from Mr. Ney Elias is very interesting in its suggestion of analogy:
    "In my report to the Geographical Society I have noticed the peculiar
    Western appearance of Kwei-hwa-ch'eng, and the little gardens of
    creepers and flowers in pots which are displayed round the porches in
    the court-yards of the better class of houses, and which I have seen
    in no other part of China. My attention was especially drawn to these
    by your quotation from Rashiduddin."

[6] A translation of Heins' was kindly lent me by the author of this
    article, the lamented Mr. J. W. S. Wyllie.

[7] I owe the suggestion of this to a remark in Oppert's Presbyter
    Johannes, p. 77.

CHAPTER LX.

CONCERNING THE KAAN'S PALACE OF CHAGANNOR.

At the end of those three days you find a city called CHAGAN NOR [which is as much as to say
White Pool], at which there is a great Palace of the Grand Kaan's;[NOTE 1] and he likes much
to reside there on account of the Lakes and Rivers in the neighbourhood, which are the haunt
of swans[NOTE 2] and of a great variety of other birds. The adjoining plains too abound with
cranes, partridges, pheasants, and other game birds, so that the Emperor takes all the more
delight in staying there, in order to go a-hawking with his gerfalcons and other falcons, a
sport of which he is very fond.[NOTE 3]

There are five different kinds of cranes found in those tracts, as I shall tell you. First,
there is one which is very big, and all over as black as a crow; the second kind again is all
white, and is the biggest of all; its wings are really beautiful, for they are adorned with
round eyes like those of a peacock, but of a resplendent golden colour, whilst the head is
red and black on a white ground. The third kind is the same as ours. The fourth is a small
kind, having at the ears beautiful long pendent feathers of red and black. The fifth kind is
grey all over and of great size, with a handsome head, red and black.[NOTE 4]

Near this city there is a valley in which the Emperor has had several little houses erected
in which he keeps in mew a huge number of cators which are what we call the Great Partridge.
You would be astonished to see what a quantity there are, with men to take charge of them.
So whenever the Kaan visits the place he is furnished with as many as he wants. [NOTE 5]

NOTE 1.--[According to the Siu t'ung kien, quoted by Palladius, the palace in Chagannor was
built in 1280.--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--"Ou demeurent sesnes." Sesnes, Cesnes, Cecini, Cesanae, is a mediaeval form of cygnes,
cigni, which seems to have escaped the dictionary-makers. It occurs in the old Italian version
of Brunetto Latini's Tresor, Bk. V. ch. xxv., as cecino; and for other examples, see Cathay,
p. 125.

NOTE 3.--The city called by Polo CHAGAN-NOR (meaning in Mongol, as he says, "White Lake") is
the Chaghan Balghasun mentioned by Timkowski as an old city of the Mongol era, the ruined rampart
of which he passed about 30 miles north of the Great Wall at Kalgan, and some 55 miles from
Siuen-hwa, adjoining the Imperial pastures. It stands near a lake still called Chaghan-Nor,
and is called by the Chinese Pe-ching-tzu, or White City, a translation of Chaghan Balghasun.
Dr. Bushell says of one of the lakes (Ichi-Nor), a few miles east of Chaghan-Nor: "We ... found
the water black with waterfowl, which rose in dense flocks, and filled the air with discordant
noises. Swans, geese, and ducks predominated, and three different species of cranes were distinguished."

The town appears as Tchahan Toloho in D'Anville. It is also, I imagine, the Arulun Tsaghan
Balghasun which S. Setzen says Kúblái built about the same time with Shangtu and another city
"on the shady side of the Altai," by which here he seems to mean the Khingan range adjoining
the Great Wall. (Timk. II. 374, 378-379; J. R. G. S. vol. xliii.; S. Setz. 115.) I see Ritter
has made the same identification of Chaghan-Nor (II. 141).

NOTE 4.--The following are the best results I can arrive at in the identification of these
five cranes.

1. Radde mentions as a rare crane in South Siberia Grus monachus, called by the Buraits Kará
Togorü, or "Black Crane." Atkinson also speaks of "a beautiful black variety of crane," probably
the same. The Grus monachus is not, however, jet black, but brownish rather. (Radde, Reisen,
Bd. II. p. 318; Atkinson. Or. and W. Sib. 548.)

2. Grus leucogeranus (?) whose chief habitat is Siberia, but which sometimes comes as far south
as the Punjab. It is the largest of the genus, snowy white, with red face and beak; the ten
largest quills are black, but this barely shows as a narrow black line when the wings are closed.
The resplendent golden eyes on the wings remain unaccounted for; no naturalist whom I have
consulted has any knowledge of a crane or crane-like bird with such decorations. When 'tis
discovered, let it be the Grus Poli!

3. Grus cinerea.

4. The colour of the pendants varies in the texts. Pauthier's and the G. Text have red and
black; the Lat. S. G. black only, the Crusca black and white, Ramusio feathers red and blue
(not pendants). The red and black may have slipt in from the preceding description. I incline
to believe it to be the Demoiselle, Anthropoides Virgo, which is frequently seen as far north
as Lake Baikal. It has a tuft of pure white from the eye, and a beautiful black pendent ruff
or collar; the general plumage purplish-grey.

5. Certainly the Indian Sáras (vulgo Cyrus), or Grus antigone, which answers in colours and
grows to 52 inches high.

NOTE 5.--Cator occurs only in the G. Text and the Crusca, in the latter with the interpolated
explanation "cioè contornici" (i.e. quails), whilst the S. G. Latin has coturnices only. I
suspect this impression has assisted to corrupt the text, and that it was originally written
or dictated ciacor or çacor, viz. chakór, a term applied in the East to more than one kind
of "Great Partridge." Its most common application in India is to the Himalayan red-legged partridge,
much resembling on a somewhat larger scale the bird so called in Europe. It is the "Francolin"
of Moorcroft's Travels, and the Caccabis Chukor of Gray. According to Cunningham the name is
applied in Ladak to the bird sometimes called the Snow-pheasant, Jerdan's Snow-cock, Tetraogallus
himalayensis of Gray. And it must be the latter which Moorcroft speaks of as "the gigantic
Chukor, much larger than the common partridge, found in large coveys on the edge of the snow;...
one plucked and drawn weighed 5 lbs."; described by Vigne as "a partridge as large as a hen-turkey";
the original perhaps of that partridge "larger than a vulture" which formed one of the presents
from an Indian King to Augustus Caesar. [With reference to the large Tibetan partridge found
in the Nan-shan Mountains in the meridian of Sha-chau by Prjevalsky, M. E. D. Morgan in a note
(P. R. Geog. S. ix. 1887, p. 219), writes: "Megaloperdrix thibetanus. Its general name in Asia
is ullar, a word of Kirghiz or Turkish origin; the Mongols call it hailik, and the Tibetans
kung-mo. There are two other varieties of this bird found in the Himalaya and Altai Mountains,
but the habits of life and call-note of all three are the same."] From the extensive diffusion
of the term, which seems to be common to India, Tibet, and Persia (for the latter, see Abbott
in J. R. G. S. XXV. 41), it is likely enough to be of Mongol origin, not improbably Tsokhor,
"dappled or pied." (Kovalevsky, No. 2196, and Strahlenberg's Vocabulary; see also Ladak, 205;
Moorcr. I. 313, 432; Jerdan's Birds of India, III. 549, 572; Dunlop, Hunting in Himalaya, 178;
J. A. S. B. VI. 774.)

The chakór is mentioned by Baber (p. 282); and also by the Hindi poet Chand (Rás Mála, I. 230,
and Ind. Antiquary, I. 273). If the latter passage is genuine, it is adverse to my Mongol etymology,
as Chand lived before the Mongol era.

The keeping of partridges for the table is alluded to by Chaucer in his portrait of the Franklin,
Prologue, Cant. Tales:

  "It snewed in his hous of mete and drinke,
  Of alle deyntees that men coud of thinke,
  After the sondry sesons of the yere,
  So changed he his mete and his soupere.
  Full many a fat partrich hadde he in mewe,
  And many a breme and many a luce in stewe."

CHAPTER LXI.

OF THE CITY OF CHANDU, AND THE KAAN'S PALACE THERE.

And when you have ridden three days from the city last mentioned, between north-east and north,
you come to a city called CHANDU,[NOTE 1] which was built by the Kaan now reigning. There is
at this place a very fine marble Palace, the rooms of which are all gilt and painted with figures
of men and beasts and birds, and with a variety of trees and flowers, all executed with such
exquisite art that you regard them with delight and astonishment.[NOTE 2]

Round this Palace a wall is built, inclosing a compass of 16 miles, and inside the Park there
are fountains and rivers and brooks, and beautiful meadows, with all kinds of wild animals
(excluding such as are of ferocious nature), which the Emperor has procured and placed there
to supply food for his gerfalcons and hawks, which he keeps there in mew. Of these there are
more than 200 gerfalcons alone, without reckoning the other hawks. The Kaan himself goes every
week to see his birds sitting in mew, and sometimes he rides through the park with a leopard
behind him on his horse's croup; and then if he sees any animal that takes his fancy, he slips
his leopard at it,[NOTE 3] and the game when taken is made over to feed the hawks in mew. This
he does for diversion.

Moreover [at a spot in the Park where there is a charming wood] he has another Palace built
of cane, of which I must give you a description. It is gilt all over, and most elaborately
finished inside. [It is stayed on gilt and lackered columns, on each of which is a dragon all
gilt, the tail of which is attached to the column whilst the head supports the architrave,
and the claws likewise are stretched out right and left to support the architrave.] The roof,
like the rest, is formed of canes, covered with a varnish so strong and excellent that no amount
of rain will rot them. These canes are a good 3 palms in girth, and from 10 to 15 paces in
length. [They are cut across at each knot, and then the pieces are split so as to form from
each two hollow tiles, and with these the house is roofed; only every such tile of cane has
to be nailed down to prevent the wind from lifting it.] In short, the whole Palace is built
of these canes, which (I may mention) serve also for a great variety of other useful purposes.
The construction of the Palace is so devised that it can be taken down and put up again with
great celerity; and it can all be taken to pieces and removed whithersoever the Emperor may
command. When erected, it is braced [against mishaps from the wind] by more than 200 cords
of silk.[NOTE 4]

The Lord abides at this Park of his, dwelling sometimes in the Marble Palace and sometimes
in the Cane Palace for three months of the year, to wit, June, July, and August; preferring
this residence because it is by no means hot; in fact it is a very cool place. When the 28th
day of [the Moon of] August arrives he takes his departure, and the Cane Palace is taken to
pieces.[NOTE 5] But I must tell you what happens when he goes away from this Palace every year
on the 28th of the August [Moon].

You must know that the Kaan keeps an immense stud of white horses and mares; in fact more than
10,000 of them, and all pure white without a speck. The milk of these mares is drunk by himself
and his family, and by none else, except by those of one great tribe that have also the privilege
of drinking it. This privilege was granted them by Chinghis Kaan, on account of a certain victory
that they helped him to win long ago. The name of the tribe is HORIAD.[NOTE 6]

Now when these mares are passing across the country, and any one falls in with them, be he
the greatest lord in the land, he must not presume to pass until the mares have gone by; he
must either tarry where he is, or go a half-day's journey round if need so be, so as not to
come nigh them; for they are to be treated with the greatest respect. Well, when the Lord sets
out from the Park on the 28th of August, as I told you, the milk of all those mares is taken
and sprinkled on the ground. And this is done on the injunction of the Idolaters and Idol-priests,
who say that it is an excellent thing to sprinkle that milk on the ground every 28th of August,
so that the Earth and the Air and the False Gods shall have their share of it, and the Spirits
likewise that inhabit the Air and the Earth. And thus those beings will protect and bless the
Kaan and his children and his wives and his folk and his gear, and his cattle and his horses,
his corn and all that is his. After this is done, the Emperor is off and away.[NOTE 7]

But I must now tell you a strange thing that hitherto I have forgotten to mention. During the
three months of every year that the Lord resides at that place, if it should happen to be bad
weather, there are certain crafty enchanters and astrologers in his train, who are such adepts
in necromancy and the diabolic arts, that they are able to prevent any cloud or storm from
passing over the spot on which the Emperor's Palace stands. The sorcerers who do this are called
TEBET and KESIMUR, which are the names of two nations of Idolaters. Whatever they do in this
way is by the help of the Devil, but they make those people believe that it is compassed by
dint of their own sanctity and the help of God.[NOTE 8] [They always go in a state of dirt
and uncleanness, devoid of respect for themselves, or for those who see them, unwashed, unkempt,
and sordidly attired.]

These people also have a custom which I must tell you. If a man is condemned to death and executed
by the lawful authority, they take his body and cook and eat it. But if any one die a natural
death then they will not eat the body.[NOTE 9]

There is another marvel performed by those BACSI, of whom I have been speaking as knowing so
many enchantments.[NOTE 10] For when the Great Kaan is at his capital and in his great Palace,
seated at his table, which stands on a platform some eight cubits above the ground, his cups
are set before him [on a great buffet] in the middle of the hall pavement, at a distance of
some ten paces from his table, and filled with wine, or other good spiced liquor such as they
use. Now when the Lord desires to drink, these enchanters by the power of their enchantments
cause the cups to move from their place without being touched by anybody, and to present themselves
to the Emperor! This every one present may witness, and there are ofttimes more than 10,000
persons thus present. 'Tis a truth and no lie! and so will tell you the sages of our own country
who understand necromancy, for they also can perform it.[NOTE 11]

And when the Idol Festivals come round, these Bacsi go to the Prince and say: "Sire, the Feast
of such a god is come" (naming him). "My Lord, you know," the enchanter will say, "that this
god, when he gets no offerings, always sends bad weather and spoils our seasons. So we pray
you to give us such and such a number of black-faced sheep," naming whatever number they please.
"And we beg also, good my lord, that we may have such a quantity of incense, and such a quantity
of lignaloes, and"--so much of this, so much of that, and so much of t'other, according to
their fancy--"that we may perform a solemn service and a great sacrifice to our Idols, and
that so they may be induced to protect us and all that is ours."

The Bacsi say these things to the Barons entrusted with the Stewardship, who stand round the
Great Kaan, and these repeat them to the Kaan, and he then orders the Barons to give everything
that the Bacsi have asked for. And when they have got the articles they go and make a great
feast in honour of their god, and hold great ceremonies of worship with grand illuminations
and quantities of incense of a variety of odours, which they make up from different aromatic
spices. And then they cook the meat, and set it before the idols, and sprinkle the broth hither
and thither, saying that in this way the idols get their bellyful. Thus it is that they keep
their festivals. You must know that each of the idols has a name of his own, and a feast-day,
just as our Saints have their anniversaries.[NOTE 12]

They have also immense Minsters and Abbeys, some of them as big as a small town, with more
than two thousand monks (i.e. after their fashion) in a single abbey.[NOTE 13] These monks
dress more decently than the rest of the people, and have the head and beard shaven. There
are some among these Bacsi who are allowed by their rule to take wives, and who have plenty
of children.[NOTE 14]

Then there is another kind of devotees called SENSIN, who are men of extraordinary abstinence
after their fashion, and lead a life of such hardship as I will describe. All their life long
they eat nothing but bran,[NOTE 15] which they take mixt with hot water. That is their food:
bran, and nothing but bran; and water for their drink. 'Tis a lifelong fast! so that I may
well say their life is one of extraordinary asceticism. They have great idols, and plenty of
them; but they sometimes also worship fire. The other Idolaters who are not of this sect call
these people heretics--Patarins as we should say[NOTE 16]--because they do not worship their
idols in their own fashion. Those of whom I am speaking would not take a wife on any consideration.[NOTE
17] They wear dresses of hempen stuff, black and blue,[NOTE 18] and sleep upon mats; in fact
their asceticism is something astonishing. Their idols are all feminine, that is to say, they
have women's names.[NOTE 19]

Now let us have done with this subject, and let me tell you of the great state and wonderful
magnificence of the Great Lord of Lords; I mean that great Prince who is the Sovereign of the
Tartars, CUBLAY by name, that most noble and puissant Lord.

NOTE 1.--[There were two roads to go from Peking to Shangtu: the eastern road through Tu-shi-k'ow,
and the western (used for the return journey) road by Ye-hu ling. Polo took this last road,
which ran from Peking to Siuen-te chau through the same places as now; but from the latter
town it led, not to Kalgan as it does now, but more to the west, to a place called now Shan-fang
pú where the pass across the Ye-hu ling range begins. "On both these roads nabo, or temporary
palaces, were built, as resting-places for the Khans; eighteen on the eastern road, and twenty-four
on the western." (Palladius, p. 25.) The same author makes (p. 26) the following remarks: "M.
Polo's statement that he travelled three days from Siuen-te chau to Chagannor, and three days
also from the latter place to Shang-tu, agrees with the information contained in the 'Researches
on the Routes to Shangtu.' The Chinese authors have not given the precise position of Lake
Chagannor; there are several lakes in the desert on the road to Shangtu, and their names have
changed with time. The palace in Chagannor was built in 1280" (according to the Siu t'ung kien).--H.
C.]

NOTE 2.--Chandu, called more correctly in Ramusio Xandu, i.e. SHANDU, and by Fr. Odorico Sandu,
viz. SHANG-TU or "Upper Court," the Chinese title of Kúblái's summer residence at Kaipingfu,
Mongolicè Keibung (see ch. xiii. of Prologue) [is called also Loan king, i.e. "the capital
on the Loan River," according to Palladius, p. 26.--H. C.]. The ruins still exist, in about
lat. 40° 22', and a little west of the longitude of Peking. The site is 118 miles in direct
line from Chaghan-nor, making Polo's three marches into rides of unusual length.[1] The ruins
bear the Mongol name of Chao Naiman Sumé Khotan, meaning "city of the 108 temples," and are
about 26 miles to the north-west of Dolon-nor, a bustling, dirty town of modern origin, famous
for the manufactory of idols, bells, and other ecclesiastical paraphernalia of Buddhism. The
site was visited (though not described) by Père Gerbillon in 1691, and since then by no European
traveller till 1872, when Dr. Bushell of the British Legation at Peking, and the Hon. T. G.
Grosvenor, made a journey thither from the capital, by way of the Nan-kau Pass (supra p. 26),
Kalgan, and the vicinity of Chaghan-nor, the route that would seem to have been habitually
followed, in their annual migration, by Kúblái and his successors.

The deserted site, overgrown with rank weeds and grass, stands but little above the marshy
bed of the river, which here preserves the name of Shang- tu, and about a mile from its north
or left bank. The walls, of earth faced with brick and unhewn stone, still stand, forming,
as in the Tartar city of Peking, a double enceinte, of which the inner line no doubt represents
the area of the "Marble Palace" of which Polo speaks. This forms a square of about 2 li (2/3
of a mile) to the side, and has three gates--south, east, and west, of which the southern one
still stands intact, a perfect arch, 20 ft. high and 12 ft. wide. The outer wall forms a square
of 4 li (1-1/3 mile) to the side, and has six gates. The foundations of temples and palace-buildings
can be traced, and both enclosures are abundantly strewn with blocks of marble and fragments
of lions, dragons, and other sculptures, testifying to the former existence of a flourishing
city, but exhibiting now scarcely one stone upon another. A broken memorial tablet was found,
half buried in the ground, within the north-east angle of the outer rampart, bearing an inscription
in an antique form of the Chinese character, which proves it to have been erected by Kúblái,
in honour of a Buddhist ecclesiastic called Yun-Hien. Yun-Hien was the abbot of one of those
great minsters and abbeys of Bacsis, of which Marco speaks, and the exact date (no longer visible)
of the monument was equivalent to A.D. 1288.[2]

This city occupies the south-east angle of a more extensive enclosure, bounded by what is now
a grassy mound, and embracing, on Dr. Bushell's estimate, about 5 square miles. Further knowledge
may explain the discrepancy from Marco's dimension, but this must be the park of which he speaks.[3]
The woods and fountains have disappeared, like the temples and palaces; all is dreary and desolate,
though still abounding in the game which was one of Kúblái's attractions to the spot. A small
monastery, occupied by six or seven wretched Lamas, is the only building that remains in the
vicinity. The river Shangtu, which lower down becomes the Lan [or Loan]-Ho, was formerly navigated
from the sea up to this place by flat grain-boats.

[Mgr. de Harlez gave in the T'oung Pao (x. p. 73) an inscription in Chuen character on a stele
found in the ruins of Shangtu, and built by an officer with the permission of the Emperor;
it is probably a token of imperial favour; the inscription means: Great Longevity.--H. C.]

In the wail which Sanang Setzen, the poetical historian of the Mongols, puts, perhaps with
some traditional basis, into the mouth of Toghon Temur, the last of the Chinghizide Dynasty
in China, when driven from his throne, the changes are rung on the lost glories of his capital
Daïtu (see infra, Book II. ch. xi.) and his summer palace Shangtu; thus (I translate from Schott's
amended German rendering of the Mongol):

  "My vast and noble Capital, My Daïtu, My splendidly adorned!
  And Thou my cool and delicious Summer-seat, my Shangtu-Keibung!
  Ye, also, yellow plains of Shangtu, Delight of my godlike Sires!
  I suffered myself to drop into dreams,--and lo! my Empire was gone!
    Ah Thou my Daïtu, built of the nine precious substances!
  Ah my Shangtu-Keibung, Union of all perfections!
  Ah my Fame! Ah my Glory, as Khagan and Lord of the Earth!
  When I used to awake betimes and look forth, how the breezes blew
                             loaded with fragrance!
  And turn which way I would all was glorious perfection of beauty!
       *       *       *       *       *
    Alas for my illustrious name as the Sovereign of the World!
    Alas for my Daïtu, seat of Sanctity, Glorious work of the Immortal
                             KÚBLÁI!
        All, all is rent from me!"

It would be a singular coincidence in relation to this poem were Klaproth's reading correct
of a passage in Rashiduddin which he renders as saying that the palace at Kaiminfu was "called
Langtin, and was built after a plan that Kúblái had seen in a dream, and had retained in his
memory." But I suspect D'Ohsson's reading is more accurate, which runs: "Kúblái caused a Palace
to be built for him east of Kaipingfu, called Lengten; but he abandoned it in consequence of
a dream." For we see from Sanang Setzen that the Palaces of Lengten and Kaiming or Shangtu
were distinct; "Between the year of the Rat (1264), when Kúblái was fifty years old, and the
year of the Sheep (1271), in the space of eight years, he built four great cities, viz. for
Summer Residence SHANGTU KEIBUNG Kürdu Balgasun, for Winter Residence Yeke DAÏTU Khotan, and
on the shady side of the Altai (see ch. li. note 3, supra) Arulun TSAGHAN BALGASUN, and Erchügin
LANGTING Balgasun." A valuable letter from Dr. Bushell enables me now to indicate the position
of Langtin: "The district through which the river flows eastward from Shangtu is known to the
Mongolians of the present day by the name of Lang-tírh (Lang-ting'rh).... The ruins of the
city are marked on a Chinese map in my possession Pai-dseng-tzu, i.e. 'White City,' implying
that it was formerly an Imperial residence. The remains of the wall are 7 or 8 li in diameter,
of stone, and situated about 40 li north-north-west from Dolon-nor."

(Gerbillon in Astley, IV. 701-716; Klaproth, in J. As. sèr. II. tom. xi. 345-350; Schott, Die
letzten Jahre der Mongolenherrschaft in China (Berl. Acad. d. Wissensch. 1850, pp. 502-503);
Huc's Tartary, etc., p. seqq.; Cathay, 134, 261; S. Setzen, p. 115; Dr. S. W. Bushell, Journey
outside the Great Wall, in J. R. G. S. for 1874, and MS. notes.)

One of the pavilions of the celebrated Yuen-ming-Yuen may give some idea of the probable style,
though not of the scale, of Kúblái's Summer Palace.

Hiuen Tsang's account of the elaborate and fantastic ornamentation of the famous Indian monasteries
at Nalanda in Bahár, where Mr. Broadley has lately made such remarkable discoveries, seems
to indicate that these fantasies of Burmese and Chinese architecture may have had a direct
origin in India, at a time when timber was still a principal material of construction there:
"The pavilions had pillars adorned with dragons, and posts that glowed with all the colours
of the rainbow, sculptured frets, columns set with jade, richly chiselled and lackered, with
balustrades of vermilion, and carved open work. The lintels of the doors were tastefully ornamented,
and the roofs covered with shining tiles, the splendours of which were multiplied by mutual
reflection and from moment to moment took a thousand forms." (Vie et Voyages, 157.)

NOTE 3.--[Rubruck says, (Rockhill, p. 248): "I saw also the envoy of a certain Soldan of India,
who had brought eight leopards and ten greyhounds, taught to sit on horses' backs, as leopards
sit."--H. C.]

NOTE 4.--Ramusio's is here so much more lucid than the other texts, that I have adhered mainly
to his account of the building. The roof described is of a kind in use in the Indian Archipelago,
and in some other parts of Transgangetic India, in which the semi-cylinders of bamboo are laid
just like Roman tiles.

Rashiduddin gives a curious account of the way in which the foundations of the terrace on which
this palace stood were erected in a lake. He says, too, in accord with Polo: "Inside the city
itself a second palace was built, about a bowshot from the first: but the Kaan generally takes
up his residence in the palace outside the town," i.e., as I imagine, in Marco's Cane Palace.
(Cathay, pp. 261-262.)

["The Palace of canes is probably the Palm Hall, Tsung tien, alias Tsung mao tien, of the Chinese
authors, which was situated in the western palace garden of Shangtu. Mention is made also in
the Altan Tobchi of a cane tent in Shangtu." (Palladius, p. 27.)--H. C.]

Marco might well say of the bamboo that "it serves also a great variety of other purposes."
An intelligent native of Arakan who accompanied me in wanderings on duty in the forests of
the Burmese frontier in the beginning of 1853, and who used to ask many questions about Europe,
seemed able to apprehend almost everything except the possibility of existence in a country
without bamboos! "When I speak of bamboo huts, I mean to say that posts and walls, wall-plates
and rafters, floor and thatch, and the withes that bind them, are all of bamboo. In fact, it
might almost be said that among the Indo-Chinese nations the staff of life is a bamboo! Scaffolding
and ladders, landing-jetties, fishing apparatus, irrigation wheels and scoops, oars, masts,
and yards [and in China, sails, cables, and caulking, asparagus, medicine, and works of fantastic
art], spears and arrows, hats and helmets, bow, bowstring and quiver, oil-cans, water-stoups
and cooking-pots, pipe-sticks [tinder and means of producing fire], conduits, clothes-boxes,
pawn-boxes, dinner-trays, pickles, preserves, and melodious musical instruments, torches, footballs,
cordage, bellows, mats, paper; these are but a few of the articles that are made from the bamboo;"
and in China, to sum up the whole, as Barrow observes, it maintains order throughout the Empire!
(Ava Mission, p. 153; and see also Wallace, Ind. Arch. I. 120 seqq.)

NOTE 5.--"The Emperor ... began this year (1264) to depart from Yenking (Peking) in the second
or third month for Shangtu, not returning until the eighth month. Every year he made this passage,
and all the Mongol emperors who succeeded him followed his example." (Gaubil, p. 144.)

["The Khans usually resorted to Shangtu in the 4th moon and returned to Peking in the 9th.
On the 7th day of the 7th moon there were libations performed in honour of the ancestors; a
shaman, his face to the north, uttered in a loud voice the names of Chingiz Khan and of other
deceased Khans, and poured mare's milk on the ground. The propitious day for the return journey
to Peking was also appointed then." (Palladius, p. 26.)--H. C.]

NOTE 6.--White horses were presented in homage to the Kaan on New Year's Day (the White Feast),
as we shall see below. (Bk. II. ch. xv.) Odoric also mentions this practice; and, according
to Huc, the Mongol chiefs continued it at least to the time of the Emperor K'ang-hi. Indeed
Timkowski speaks of annual tributes of white camels and white horses from the Khans of the
Kalkas and other Mongol dignitaries, in the present century. (Huc's Tartary, etc.; Tim. II. 33.)

By the HORIAD are no doubt intended the UIRAD or OIRAD, a name usually interpreted as signifying
the "Closely Allied," or Confederates; but Vámbéry explains it as (Turki) Oyurat, "Grey horse,"
to which the statement in our text appears to lend colour. They were not of the tribes properly
called Mongol, but after their submission to Chinghiz they remained closely attached to him.
In Chinghiz's victory over Aung-Khan, as related by S. Setzen, we find Turulji Taishi, the
son of the chief of the Oirad, one of Chinghiz's three chief captains; perhaps that is the
victory alluded to. The seats of the Oirad appear to have been about the head waters of the
Kem, or Upper Yenisei.

In A.D. 1295 there took place a curious desertion from the service of Gházán Khan of Persia
of a vast corps of the Oirad, said to amount to 18,000 tents. They made their way to Damascus,
where they were well received by the Mameluke Sultan. But their heathenish practices gave dire
offence to the Faithful. They were settled in the Sáhil, or coast districts of Palestine. Many
died speedily; the rest embraced Islam, spread over the country, and gradually became absorbed
in the general population. Their sons and daughters were greatly admired for their beauty.
(S. Setz. p. 87; Erdmann, 187; Pallas, Samml. I. 5 seqq.; Makrizi, III. 29; Bretschneider,
Med. Res. II. p. 159 seqq.)

[With reference to Yule's conjecture, I may quote Palladius (l.c. p. 27): "It is, however,
strange that the Oirats alone enjoyed the privilege described by Marco Polo; for the highest
position at the Mongol Khan's court belonged to the Kunkrat tribe, out of which the Khans used
to choose their first wives, who were called Empresses of the first ordo."--H. C.]

NOTE 7.--Rubruquis assigns such a festival to the month of May: "On the 9th day of the May
Moon they collect all the white mares of their herds and consecrate them. The Christian priests
also must then assemble with their thuribles. They then sprinkle new cosmos (kumíz) on the
ground, and make a great feast that day, for according to their calendar, it is their time
of first drinking new cosmos, just as we reckon of our new wine at the feast of St. Bartholomew
(24th August), or that of St. Sixtus (6th August), or of our fruit on the feast of St. James
and St. Christopher" (25th July). [With reference to this feast, Mr. Rockhill gives (Rubruck,
p. 241, note) extracts from Pallas, Voyages, IV. 579, and Professor Radloff, Aus Siberien,
I. 378.--H. C.] The Yakuts also hold such a festival in June or July, when the mares foal,
and immense wooden goblets of kumíz are emptied on that occasion. They also pour out kumíz
for the Spirits to the four quarters of heaven.

The following passage occurs in the narrative of the Journey of Chang Te-hui, a Chinese teacher,
who was summoned to visit the camp of Kúblái in Mongolia, some twelve years before that Prince
ascended the throne of the Kaans:[4]

"On the 9th day of the 9th Moon (October), the Prince, having called his subjects before his
chief tent, performed the libation of the milk of a white mare. This was the customary sacrifice
at that time. The vessels used were made of birch-bark, not ornamented with either silver or
gold. Such here is the respect for simplicity....

"At the last day of the year the Mongols suddenly changed their camping-ground to another place,
for the mutual congratulation on the 1st Moon. Then there was every day feasting before the
tents for the lower ranks. Beginning with the Prince, all dressed themselves in white fur clothing....[5]

"On the 9th day of the 4th Moon (May) the Prince again collected his vassals before the chief
tent for the libation of the milk of a white mare. This sacrifice is performed twice a year."

It has been seen (p. 308) that Rubruquis also names the 9th day of the May moon as that of
the consecration of the white mares. The autumn libation is described by Polo as performed
on the 28th day of the August moon, probably because it was unsuited to the circumstances of
the Court at Cambaluc, where the Kaan was during October, and the day named was the last of
his annual stay in the Mongolian uplands.

Baber tells that among the ceremonies of a Mongol Review the Khan and his staff took kumiz
and sprinkled it towards the standards. An Armenian author of the Mongol era says that it was
the custom of the Tartars, before drinking, to sprinkle drink towards heaven, and towards the
four quarters. Mr. Atkinson notices the same practice among the Kirghiz: and I found the like
in old days among the Kasias of the eastern frontier of Bengal.

The time of year assigned by Polo for the ceremony implies some change. Perhaps it had been
made to coincide with the Festival of Water Consecration of the Lamas, with which the time
named in the text seems to correspond. On that occasion the Lamas go in procession to the rivers
and lakes and consecrate them by benediction and by casting in offerings, attended by much
popular festivity.

Rubruquis seems to intimate that the Nestorian priests were employed to consecrate the white
mares by incensing them. In the rear of Lord Canning's camp in India I once came upon the party
of his Shutr Suwárs, or dromedary-express riders, busily engaged in incensing with frankincense
the whole of the dromedaries, which were kneeling in a circle. I could get no light on the
practice, but it was very probably a relic of the old Mongol custom. (Rubr. 363; Erman, II.
397; Billings' Journey, Fr. Tr. I. 217; Baber, 103; J. As. sèr. V. tom. xi. p. 249; Atk. Amoor,
p. 47; J. A. S. B. XIII. 628; Koeppen, II. 313.)

NOTE 8.--The practice of weather-conjuring was in great vogue among the Mongols, and is often
alluded to in their history.

The operation was performed by means of a stone of magical virtues, called Yadah or Jadah-Tásh,
which was placed in or hung over a basin of water with sundry ceremonies. The possession of
such a stone is ascribed by the early Arab traveller Ibn Mohalhal to the Kímák, a great tribe
of the Turks. In the war raised against Chinghiz and Aung Khan, when still allies, by a great
confederation of the Naiman and other tribes in 1202, we are told that Sengun, the son of Aung
Khan, when sent to meet the enemy, caused them to be enchanted, so that all their attempted
movements against him were defeated by snow and mist. The fog and darkness were indeed so dense
that many men and horses fell over precipices, and many also perished with cold. In another
account of (apparently) the same matter, given by Mir-Khond, the conjuring is set on foot by
the Yadachi of Buyruk Khan, Prince of the Naiman, but the mischief all rebounds on the conjurer's
own side.

In Tului's invasion of Honan in 1231-1232, Rashiduddin describes him, when in difficulty, as
using the Jadah stone with success.

Timur, in his Memoirs, speaks of the Jets using incantations to produce heavy rains which hindered
his cavalry from acting against them. A Yadachi was captured, and when his head had been taken
off the storm ceased.

Baber speaks of one of his early friends, Khwaja Ka Mulai, as excelling in falconry and acquainted
with Yadagarí or the art of bringing on rain and snow by means of enchantment. When the Russians
besieged Kazan in 1552 they suffered much from the constant heavy rains, and this annoyance
was universally ascribed to the arts of the Tartar Queen, who was celebrated as an enchantress.
Shah Abbas believed he had learned the Tartar secret, and put much confidence in it. (P. Delia
V. I. 869.)

[Grenard says (II. p. 256) the most powerful and most feared of sorcerers [in Chinese Turkestan]
is the djâduger, who, to produce rain or fine weather, uses a jade stone, given by Noah to
Japhet. Grenard adds (II. 406-407) there are sorcerers (Ngag-pa-snags-pa) whose specialty is
to make rain fall; they are similar to the Turkish Yadachi and like them use a stone called
"water cristal," chu shel; probably jade stone.

Mr. Rockhill (Rubruck, p. 245, note) writes: "Rashideddin states that when the Urianghit wanted
to bring a storm to an end, they said injuries to the sky, the lightning and thunder. I have
seen this done myself by Mongol storm-dispellers. (See Diary, 201, 203.) 'The other Mongol
people,' he adds, 'do the contrary. When the storm rumbles, they remain shut up in their huts,
full of fear.' The subject of storm-making, and the use of stones for that purpose, is fully
discussed by Quatremère, Histoire, 438-440." (Cf. also Rockhill, l.c. p. 254.)--H. C.]

An edict of the Emperor Shi-tsung, of the reigning dynasty, addressed in 1724-1725 to the Eight
Banners of Mongolia, warns them against this rain-conjuring: "If I," indignantly observes the
Emperor, "offering prayer in sincerity have yet room to fear that it may please Heaven to leave
MY prayer unanswered, it is truly intolerable that mere common people wishing for rain should
at their own caprice set up altars of earth, and bring together a rabble of Hoshang (Buddhist
Bonzes) and Taossé to conjure the spirits to gratify their wishes."

["Lamas were of various extraction; at the time of the great assemblies, and of the Khan's
festivities in Shangtu, they erected an altar near the Khan's tent and prayed for fine weather;
the whistling of shells rose up to heaven." These are the words in which Marco Polo's narrative
is corroborated by an eye-witness who has celebrated the remarkable objects of Shangtu (Loan
king tsa yung). These Lamas, in spite of the prohibition by the Buddhist creed of bloody sacrifices,
used to sacrifice sheep's hearts to Mahakala. It happened, as it seems, that the heart of an
executed criminal was also considered an agreeable offering; and as the offerings could be,
after the ceremony, eaten by the sacrificing priests, Marco Polo had some reason to accuse
the Lamas of cannibalism. (Palladius, 28.)--H. C.]

The practice of weather-conjuring is not yet obsolete in Tartary, Tibet, and the adjoining
countries.[6]

Weather-conjuring stories were also rife in Europe during the Middle Ages. One such is conspicuously
introduced in connection with a magical fountain in the romance of the Chevalier au Lyon:

  "Et s'i pant uns bacins d'or fin
   A une si longue chaainne
   Qui dure jusqu'a la fontainne,
   Lez la fontainne troveras
   Un perron tel con tu verras
        *     *     *     *
   S'au bacin viaus de l'iaue prandre
   Et dessor le perron espandre,
   La verras une tel tanpeste
   Qu'an cest bois ne remandra beste,"
      etc.   etc.[7]

The effect foretold in these lines is the subject of a woodcut illustrating a Welsh version
of the same tale in the first volume of the Mabinogion. And the existence of such a fountain
is alluded to by Alexander Neckam. (De Naturis Rerum, Bk. II. ch. vii.)

In the Cento Novelle Antiche also certain necromancers exhibit their craft before the Emperor
Frederic (Barbarossa apparently): "The weather began to be overcast, and lo of a sudden rain
began to fall with continued thunders and lightnings, as if the world were come to an end,
and hailstones that looked like steel-caps," etc. Various other European legends of like character
will be found in Liebrecht's Gervasius von Tilbury, pp. 147-148.

Rain-makers there are in many parts of the world; but it is remarkable that those also of Samoa
in the Pacific operate by means of a rain-stone.

Such weather conjurings as we have spoken of are ascribed by Ovid to Circe:

  "Concipit illa preces, et verba venefica dicit;
  Ignotosque Deos ignoto carmine adorat,
       *    *    *    *
  Tunc quoque cantato densetur carmine caelum,
  Et nebulas exhalat humus."--Metam. XIV. 365.

And to Medea:--

  --"Quum volui, ripis mirantibus, amnes
  In fontes rediere suos ... (another feat of the Lamas)
      ... Nubila pello,
  Nubilaque induco; ventos abigoque, vocoque."--Ibid. VII. 199.

And by Tibullus to the Saga (Eleg. I. 2, 45); whilst Empedocles, in verses ascribed to him
by Diogenes Laertius, claims power to communicate like secrets of potency:--

      "By my spells thou may'st
  To timely sunshine turn the purple rains,
  And parching droughts to fertilising floods."

(See Cathay, p. clxxxvii.; Erdm. 282; Oppert, 182 seqq.; Erman, I. 153; Pallas, Samml. II.
348 seqq.; Timk. I. 402; J. R. A. S. VII. 305-306; D'Ohsson, II. 614; and for many interesting
particulars, Q. R. p. 428 seqq., and Hammers Golden Horde, 207 and 435 seqq.)

NOTE 9.--It is not clear whether Marco attributes this cannibalism to the Tibetans and Kashmirians,
or brings it in as a particular of Tartar custom which he had forgotten to mention before.

The accusations of cannibalism indeed against the Tibetans in old accounts are frequent, and
I have elsewhere (see Cathay, p. 151) remarked on some singular Tibetan practices which go
far to account for such charges. Della Penna, too, makes a statement which bears curiously
on the present passage. Remarking on the great use made by certain classes of the Lamas of
human skulls for magical cups, and of human thigh bones for flutes and whistles, he says that
to supply them with these the bodies of executed criminals were stored up of the disposal of
the Lamas; and a Hindu account of Tibet in the Asiatic Researches asserts that when one is
killed in a fight both parties rush forward and struggle for the liver, which they eat (vol. xv).

[Carpini says of the people of Tibet: "They are pagans; they have a most astonishing, or rather
horrible, custom, for, when any one's father is about to give up the ghost, all the relatives
meet together, and they eat him, as was told to me for certain." Mr. Rockhill (Rubruck, p.
152, note) writes: "So far as I am aware, this charge [of cannibalism] is not made by any Oriental
writer against the Tibetans, though both Arab travellers to China in the ninth century and
Armenian historians of the thirteenth century say the Chinese practised cannibalism. The Armenians
designate China by the name Nankas, which I take to be Chinese Nan-kuo, 'southern country,'
the Manzi country of Marco Polo."--H. C.]

But like charges of cannibalism are brought against both Chinese and Tartars very positively.
Thus, without going back to the Anthropophagous Scythians of Ptolemy and Mela, we read in the
Relations of the Arab travellers of the ninth century: "In China it occurs sometimes that the
governor of a province revolts from his duty to the emperor. In such a case he is slaughtered
and eaten. In fact, the Chinese eat the flesh of all men who are executed by the sword." Dr.
Rennie mentions a superstitious practice, the continued existence of which in our own day he
has himself witnessed, and which might perhaps have given rise to some such statement as that
of the Arab travellers, if it be not indeed a relic, in a mitigated form, of the very practice
they assert to have prevailed. After an execution at Peking certain large pith balls are steeped
in the blood, and under the name of blood-bread are sold as a medicine for consumption. It
is only to the blood of decapitated criminals that any such healing power is attributed. It
has been asserted in the annals of the Propagation de la Foi that the Chinese executioners
of M. Chapdelaine, a missionary who was martyred in Kwang-si in 1856 (28th February), were
seen to eat the heart of their victim; and M. Huot, a missionary in the Yun-nan province, recounts
a case of cannibalism which he witnessed. Bishop Chauveau, at Ta Ts'ien-lu, told Mr. Cooper
that he had seen men in one of the cities of Yun-nan eating the heart and brains of a celebrated
robber who had been executed. Dr. Carstairs Douglas of Amoy also tells me that the like practices
have occurred at Amoy and Swatau.

[With reference to cannibalism in China see Medical Superstitions an Incentive to Anti-Foreign
Riots in China, by D. J. Macgowan, North China Herald, 8th July, 1892, pp. 60-62. Mr. E. H.
Parker (China Review, February-March, 1901, 136) relates that the inhabitants of a part of
Kwang-si boiled and ate a Chinese officer who had been sent to pacify them. "The idea underlying
this horrible act [cannibalism] is, that by eating a portion of the victim, especially the
heart, one acquires the valour with which he was endowed." (Dennys' Folk-lore of China, 67.)--H.
C.]

Hayton, the Armenian, after relating the treason of a Saracen, called Parwana (he was an Iconian
Turk), against Abaka Khan, says: "He was taken and cut in two, and orders were issued that
in all the food eaten by Abaka there should be put a portion of the traitor's flesh. Of this
Abaka himself ate, and caused all his barons to partake. And this was in accordance with the
custom of the Tartars." The same story is related independently and differently by Friar Ricold,
thus: "When the army of Abaga ran away from the Saracens in Syria, a certain great Tartar baron
was arrested who had been guilty of treason. And when the Emperor Khan was giving the order
for his execution the Tartar ladies and women interposed, and begged that he might be made
over to them. Having got hold of the prisoner they boiled him alive, and cutting his body up
into mince-meat gave it to eat to the whole army, as an example to others." Vincent of Beauvais
makes a like statement: "When they capture any one who is at bitter enmity with them, they
gather together and eat him in vengeance of his revolt, and like infernal leeches suck his
blood," a custom of which a modern Mongol writer thinks that he finds a trace in a surviving
proverb. Among more remote and ignorant Franks the cannibalism of the Tartars was a general
belief. Ivo of Narbonne, in his letter written during the great Tartar invasion of Europe (1242),
declares that the Tartar chiefs, with their dog's head followers and other Lotophagi (!), ate
the bodies of their victims like so much bread; whilst a Venetian chronicler, speaking of the
council of Lyons in 1274, says there was a discussion about making a general move against the
Tartars, "porce qu'il manjuent la char humaine." These latter writers no doubt rehearsed mere
popular beliefs, but Hayton and Ricold were both intelligent persons well acquainted with the
Tartars, and Hayton at least not prejudiced against them.

The old belief was revived in Prussia during the Seven Years' War, in regard to the Kalmaks
of the Russian army; and Bergmann says the old Kalmak warriors confessed to him that they had
done what they could to encourage it by cutting up the bodies of the slain in presence of their
prisoners, and roasting them! But Levchine relates an act on the part of the Kirghiz Kazaks
which was no jest. They drank the blood of their victim if they did not eat his flesh.

There is some reason to believe that cannibalism was in the Middle Ages generally a less strange
and unwonted horror than we should at first blush imagine, and especially that it was an idea
tolerably familiar in China. M. Bazin, in the second part of Chine Moderne, p. 461, after sketching
a Chinese drama of the Mongol era ("The Devotion of Chao-li"), the plot of which turns on the
acts of a body of cannibals, quotes several other passages from Chinese authors which indicate
this. Nor is this wonderful in the age that had experienced the horrors of the Mongol wars.

That was no doubt a fable which Carpini heard in the camp of the Great Kaan, that in one of
the Mongol sieges in Cathay, when the army was without food, one man in ten of their own force
was sacrificed to feed the remainder.[8] But we are told in sober history that the force of
Tului in Honan, in 1231-1232, was reduced to such straits as to eat grass and human flesh.
At the siege of the Kin capital Kaifongfu, in 1233, the besieged were reduced to the like extremity;
and the same occurred the same year at the siege of Tsaichau; and in 1262, when the rebel general
Litan was besieged in Tsinanfu. The Taiping wars the other day revived the same horrors in
all their magnitude. And savage acts of the same kind by the Chinese and their Turk partisans
in the defence of Kashgar were related to Mr. Shaw.

Probably, however, nothing of the kind in history equals what Abdallatif, a sober and scientific
physician, describes as having occurred before his own eyes in the great Egyptian famine of
A.H. 597 (1200). The horrid details fill a chapter of some length, and we need not quote from them.

Nor was Christendom without the rumour of such barbarities. The story of King Richard's banquet
in presence of Saladin's ambassadors on the head of a Saracen curried (for so it surely was),--

      "soden full hastily
  With powder and with spysory,
  And with saffron of good colour"--

fable as it is, is told with a zest that makes one shudder; but the tale in the Chanson d'Antioche,
of how the licentious bands of ragamuffins, who hung on the army of the First Crusade, and
were known as the Tafurs,[9] ate the Turks whom they killed at the siege, looks very like an
abominable truth, corroborated as it is by the prose chronicle of worse deeds at the ensuing
siege of Marrha:--

  "A lor cotiaus qu'il ont trenchans et afilés
  Escorchoient les Turs, aval parmi les près.
  Voiant Paiens, les ont par pièces découpés.
  En l'iave et el carbon les ont bien quisinés,
  Volontiers les menjuent sans pain et dessalés."[10]

(Della Penna, p. 76; Reinaud, Rel. I. 52; Rennie's Peking, II. 244; Ann. de la Pr. de la F.
XXIX. 353, XXI. 298; Hayton in Ram. ch. xvii.; Per. Quat. p. 116; M. Paris, sub. 1243; Mél.
Asiat. Acad. St. Pétersb. II. 659; Canale in Arch. Stor. Ital. VIII.; Bergm. Nomad. Streifereien,
I. 14; Carpini, 638; D'Ohsson, II. 30, 43, 52; Wilson's Ever Victorious Army, 74; Shaw, p.
48; Abdallatif, p. 363 seqq.; Weber, II. 135; Littré, H. de la Langue Franç. I. 191; Gesta
Tancredi in Thes. Nov. Anecd. III. 172.)

NOTE 10.--Bakhshi is generally believed to be a corruption of Bhikshu, the proper Sanscrit
term for a religious mendicant, and in particular for the Buddhist devotees of that character.
Bakhshi was probably applied to a class only of the Lamas, but among the Turks and Persians
it became a generic name for them all. In this sense it is habitually used by Rashiduddin,
and thus also in the Ain Akbari: "The learned among the Persians and Arabians call the priests
of this (Buddhist) religion Bukshee, and in Tibbet they are styled Lamas."

According to Pallas the word among the modern Mongols is used in the sense of Teacher, and
is applied to the oldest and most learned priest of a community, who is the local ecclesiastical
chief. Among the Kirghiz Kazzaks again, who profess Mahomedanism, the word also survives, but
conveys among them just the idea that Polo seems to have associated with it, that of a mere
conjuror or "medicine-man"; whilst in Western Turkestan it has come to mean a Bard.

The word Bakhshi has, however, wandered much further from its original meaning. From its association
with persons who could read and write, and who therefore occasionally acted as clerks, it came
in Persia to mean a clerk or secretary. In the Petrarchian Vocabulary, published by Klaproth,
we find scriba rendered in Comanian, i.e. Turkish of the Crimea, by Bacsi. The transfer of
meaning is precisely parallel to that in regard to our Clerk. Under the Mahomedan sovereigns
of India, Bakhshi was applied to an officer performing something like the duties of a quartermaster-general;
and finally, in our Indian army, it has come to mean a paymaster. In the latter sense, I imagine
it has got associated in the popular mind with the Persian bakhshídan, to bestow, and bakhshísh.
(See a note in Q. R. p. 184 seqq.; Cathay, p. 474; Ayeen Akbery, III. 150; Pallas, Samml. II.
126; Levchine, p. 355; Klap. Mém. III.; Vámbéry, Sketches, p. 81.)

The sketch from the life, on p. 326, of a wandering Tibetan devotee, whom I met once at Hardwár,
may give an idea of the sordid Bacsis spoken of by Polo.

NOTE 11.--This feat is related more briefly by Odoric: "And jugglers cause cups of gold full
of good wine to fly through the air, and to offer themselves to all who list to drink." (Cathay,
p. 143.) In the note on that passage I have referred to a somewhat similar story in the Life
of Apollonius. "Such feats," says Mr. Jaeschke, "are often mentioned in ancient as well as
modern legends of Buddha and other saints; and our Lamas have heard of things very similar
performed by conjuring Bonpos." (See p. 323.) The moving of cups and the like is one of the
sorceries ascribed in old legends to Simon Magus: "He made statues to walk; leapt into the
fire without being burnt; flew in the air; made bread of stones; changed his shape; assumed
two faces at once; converted himself into a pillar; caused closed doors to fly open spontaneously;
made the vessels in a house seem to move of themselves," etc. The Jesuit Delrio laments that
credulous princes, otherwise of pious repute, should have allowed diabolic tricks to be played
before them, "as, for example, things of iron, and silver goblets, or other heavy articles,
to be moved by bounds from one end of a table to the other, without the use of a magnet or
of any attachment." The pious prince appears to have been Charles IX., and the conjuror a certain
Cesare Maltesio. Another Jesuit author describes the veritable mango-trick, speaking of persons
who "within three hours' space did cause a genuine shrub of a span in length to grow out of
the table, besides other trees that produced both leaves and fruit."

In a letter dated 1st December, 1875, written by Mr. R. B. Shaw, after his last return from
Kashgar and Lahore, this distinguished traveller says; "I have heard stories related regarding
a Buddhist high priest whose temple is said to be not far to the east of Lanchau, which reminds
me of Marco Polo and Kúblái Khan. This high priest is said to have the magic power of attracting
cups and plates to him from a distance, so that things fly through the air into his hands."
(MS. Note.--H. Y.)

The profession and practice of exorcism and magic in general is greatly more prominent in Lamaism
or Tibetan Buddhism than in any other known form of that religion. Indeed, the old form of
Lamaism as it existed in our traveller's day, and till the reforms of Tsongkhapa (1357-1419),
and as it is still professed by the Red sect in Tibet, seems to be a kind of compromise between
Indian Buddhism and the old indigenous Shamanism. Even the reformed doctrine of the Yellow
sect recognises an orthodox kind of magic, which is due in great measure to the combination
of Sivaism with the Buddhist doctrines, and of which the institutes are contained in the vast
collection of the Jud or Tantras, recognised among the holy books. The magic arts of this code
open even a short road to the Buddhahood itself. To attain that perfection of power and wisdom,
culminating in the cessation of sensible existence, requires, according to the ordinary paths,
a period of three asankhyas (or say Uncountable Time × 3), whereas by means of the magic arts
of the Tantras it may be reached in the course of three rebirths only, nay, of one! But from
the Tantras also can be learned how to acquire miraculous powers for objects entirely selfish
and secular, and how to exercise these by means of Dhárani or mystic Indian charms.

Still the orthodox Yellow Lamas professedly repudiate and despise the grosser exhibitions of
common magic and charlatanism which the Reds still practise, such as knife-swallowing, blowing
fire, cutting off their own heads, etc. But as the vulgar will not dispense with these marvels,
every great orthodox monastery in Tibet keeps a conjuror, who is a member of the unreformed,
and does not belong to the brotherhood of the convent, but lives in a particular part of it,
bearing the name of Choichong, or protector of religion, and is allowed to marry. The magic
of these Choichong is in theory and practice different from the orthodox Tantrist magic. The
practitioners possess no literature, and hand down their mysteries only by tradition. Their
fantastic equipments, their frantic bearing, and their cries and howls, seem to identify them
with the grossest Shamanist devil dancers.

Sanang Setzen enumerates a variety of the wonderful acts which could be performed through the
Dhárani. Such were, sticking a peg into solid rock; restoring the dead to life; turning a dead
body into gold; penetrating everywhere as air does; flying; catching wild beasts with the hand;
reading thoughts; making water flow backwards; eating tiles; sitting in the air with the legs
doubled under, etc. Some of these are precisely the powers ascribed to Medea, Empedocles, and
Simon Magus, in passages already cited. Friar Ricold says on this subject: "There are certain
men whom the Tartars honour above all in the world, viz. the Baxitae (i.e. Bakhshis), who are
a kind of idol-priests. These are men from India, persons of deep wisdom, well-conducted, and
of the gravest morals. They are usually acquainted with magic arts, and depend on the counsel
and aid of demons; they exhibit many illusions, and predict some future events. For instance,
one of eminence among them was said to fly; the truth, however, was (as it proved), that he
did not fly, but did walk close to the surface of the ground without touching it; and would
seem to sit down without having any substance to support him." This last performance was witnessed
by Ibn Batuta at Delhi, in the presence of Sultan Mahomed Tughlak; and it was professedly exhibited
by a Brahmin at Madras in the present century, a descendant doubtless of those Brahmans whom
Apollonius saw walking two cubits from the ground. It is also described by the worthy Francis
Valentyn as a performance known and practised in his own day in India. It is related, he says,
that "a man will first go and sit on three sticks put together so as to form a tripod; after
which, first one stick, then a second, then the third shall be removed from under him, and
the man shall not fall but shall still remain sitting in the air! Yet I have spoken with two
friends who had seen this at one and the same time; and one of them, I may add, mistrusting
his own eyes, had taken the trouble to feel about with a long stick if there were nothing on
which the body rested; yet, as the gentleman told me, he could neither feel nor see any such
thing. Still, I could only say that I could not believe it, as a thing too manifestly contrary
to reason."

Akin to these performances, though exhibited by professed jugglers without claim to religious
character, is a class of feats which might be regarded as simply inventions if told by one
author only, but which seem to deserve prominent notice from their being recounted by a series
of authors, certainly independent of one another, and writing at long intervals of time and
place. Our first witness is Ibn Batuta, and it will be necessary to quote him as well as the
others in full, in order to show how closely their evidence tallies. The Arab Traveller was
present at a great entertainment at the Court of the Viceroy of Khansa (Kinsay of Polo, or
Hang-chau fu): "That same night a juggler, who was one of the Kán's slaves, made his appearance,
and the Amír said to him, 'Come and show us some of your marvels.' Upon this he took a wooden
ball, with several holes in it, through which long thongs were passed, and, laying hold of
one of these, slung it into the air. It went so high that we lost sight of it altogether. (It
was the hottest season of the year, and we were outside in the middle of the palace court.)
There now remained only a little of the end of a thong in the conjuror's hand, and he desired
one of the boys who assisted him to lay hold of it and mount. He did so, climbing by the thong,
and we lost sight of him also! The conjuror then called to him three times, but getting no
answer, he snatched up a knife as if in a great rage, laid hold of the thong, and disappeared
also! By and bye he threw down one of the boy's hands, then a foot, then the other hand, and
then the other foot, then the trunk, and last of all the head! Then he came down himself, all
puffing and panting, and with his clothes all bloody, kissed the ground before the Amír, and
said something to him in Chinese. The Amír gave some order in reply, and our friend then took
the lad's limbs, laid them together in their places, and gave a kick, when, presto! there was
the boy, who got up and stood before us! All this astonished me beyond measure, and I had an
attack of palpitation like that which overcame me once before in the presence of the Sultan
of India, when he showed me something of the same kind. They gave me a cordial, however, which
cured the attack. The Kazi Afkharuddin was next to me, and quoth he, 'Wallah! 'tis my opinion
there has been neither going up nor coming down, neither marring nor mending; 'tis all hocus
pocus!'"

Now let us compare with this, which Ibn Batuta the Moor says he saw in China about the year
1348, the account which is given us by Edward Melton, an Anglo-Dutch traveller, of the performances
of a Chinese gang of conjurors, which he witnessed at Batavia about the year 1670 (I have forgotten
to note the year). After describing very vividly the basket- murder trick, which is well known
in India, and now also in Europe, and some feats of bamboo balancing similar to those which
were recently shown by Japanese performers in England, only more wonderful, he proceeds: "But
now I am going to relate a thing which surpasses all belief, and which I should scarcely venture
to insert here had it not been witnessed by thousands before my own eyes. One of the same gang
took a ball of cord, and grasping one end of the cord in his hand slung the other up into the
air with such force that its extremity was beyond reach of our sight. He then immediately climbed
up the cord with indescribable swiftness, and got so high that we could no longer see him.
I stood full of astonishment, not conceiving what was to come of this; when lo! a leg came
tumbling down out of the air. One of the conjuring company instantly snatched it up and threw
it into the basket whereof I have formerly spoken. A moment later a hand came down, and immediately
on that another leg. And in short all the members of the body came thus successively tumbling
from the air and were cast together into the basket. The last fragment of all that we saw tumble
down was the head, and no sooner had that touched the ground than he who had snatched up all
the limbs and put them in the basket turned them all out again topsy-turvy. Then straightway
we saw with these eyes all those limbs creep together again, and in short, form a whole man,
who at once could stand and go just as before, without showing the least damage! Never in my
life was I so astonished as when I beheld this wonderful performance, and I doubted now no
longer that these misguided men did it by the help of the Devil. For it seems to me totally
impossible that such things should be accomplished by natural means." The same performance
is spoken of by Valentyn, in a passage also containing curious notices of the basket-murder
trick, the mango trick, the sitting in the air (quoted above), and others; but he refers to
Melton, and I am not sure whether he had any other authority for it. The cut on this page is
taken from Melton's plate.

Again we have in the Memoirs of the Emperor Jahángir a detail of the wonderful performances
of seven jugglers from Bengal who exhibited before him. Two of their feats are thus described:
"Ninth. They produced a man whom they divided limb from limb, actually severing his head from
the body. They scattered these mutilated members along the ground, and in this state they lay
for some time. They then extended a sheet or curtain over the spot, and one of the men putting
himself under the sheet, in a few minutes came from below, followed by the individual supposed
to have been cut into joints, in perfect health and condition, and one might have safely sworn
that he had never received wound or injury whatever ... Twenty-third. They produced a chain
of 50 cubits in length, and in my presence threw one end of it towards the sky, where it remained
as if fastened to something in the air. A dog was then brought forward, and being placed at
the lower end of the chain, immediately ran up, and reaching the other end, immediately disappeared
in the air. In the same manner a hog, a panther, a lion, and a tiger were successively sent
up the chain, and all equally disappeared at the upper end of the chain. At last they took
down the chain and put it into a bag, no one ever discovering in what way the different animals
were made to vanish into the air in the mysterious manner above described."

[There would appear (says the Times of India, quoted by the Weekly Dispatch, 15th September,
1889) to be a fine field of unworked romance in the annals of Indian jugglery. One Siddeshur
Mitter, writing to the Calcutta paper, gives a thrilling account of a conjurer's feat which
he witnessed recently in one of the villages of the Hooghly district. He saw the whole thing
himself, he tells us, so there need be no question about the facts. On the particular afternoon
when he visited the village the place was occupied by a company of male and female jugglers,
armed with bags and boxes and musical instruments, and all the mysterious paraphernalia of
the peripatetic Jadugar. While Siddeshur was looking on, and in the broad, clear light of the
afternoon, a man was shut up in a box, which was then carefully nailed up and bound with cords.
Weird spells and incantations of the style we are all familiar with were followed by the breaking
open of the box, which, "to the unqualified amazement of everybody, was found to be perfectly
empty." All this is much in the usual style; but what followed was so much superior to the
ordinary run of modern Indian jugglery that we must give it in the simple Siddeshur's own words.
When every one was satisfied that the man had really disappeared, the principal performer,
who did not seem to be at all astonished, told his audience that the vanished man had gone
up to the heavens to fight Indra. "In a few moments," says Siddeshur, "he expressed anxiety
at the man's continued absence in the aerial regions, and said that he would go up to see what
was the matter. A boy was called, who held upright a long bamboo, up which the man climbed
to the top, whereupon we suddenly lost sight of him, and the boy laid the bamboo on the ground.
Then there fell on the ground before us the different members of a human body, all bloody,--first
one hand, then another, a foot, and so on, until complete. The boy then elevated the bamboo,
and the principal performer, appearing on the top as suddenly as he had disappeared, came down,
and seeming quite disconsolate, said that Indra had killed his friend before he could get there
to save him. He then placed the mangled remains in the same box, closed it, and tied it as
before. Our wonder and astonishment reached their climax when, a few minutes later, on the
box being again opened, the man jumped out perfectly hearty and unhurt." Is not this rather
a severe strain on one's credulity, even for an Indian jugglery story?]

In Philostratus, again, we may learn the antiquity of some juggling tricks that have come up
as novelties in our own day. Thus at Taxila a man set his son against a board, and then threw
darts tracing the outline of the boy's figure on the board. This feat was shown in London some
fifteen or twenty years ago, and humorously commemorated in Punch by John Leech.

(Philostratus, Fr. Transl. Bk. III. ch. xv. and xxvii.; Mich. Glycas, Ann. II. 156, Paris ed.;
Delrio, Disquis. Magic. pp. 34, 100; Koeppen, I. 31, II. 82, 114-115, 260, 262, 280; Vassilyev,
156; Della Penna, 36; S. Setzen, 43, 353; Pereg. Quat. 117; I. B. IV. 39 and 290 seqq.; Asiat.
Researches, XVII. 186; Valentyn, V. 52-54; Edward Melton, Engelsch Edelmans, Zeldzaame en Gedenkwaardige
Zee en Land Reizen, etc., aangevangen in den Jaare 1660 en geendigd in den Jaare 1677, Amsterdam,
1702, p. 468; Mem. of the Emp. Jahangueir, pp. 99, 102.)

NOTE 12.--["The maintenance of the Lamas, of their monasteries, the expenses for the sacrifices
and for transcription of sacred books, required enormous sums. The Lamas enjoyed a preponderating
influence, and stood much higher than the priests of other creeds, living in the palace as
if in their own house. The perfumes, which M. Polo mentions, were used by the Lamas for two
purposes; they used them for joss-sticks, and for making small turrets, known under the name
of ts'a-ts'a; the joss-sticks used to be burned in the same way as they are now; the ts'a-ts'a
were inserted in suburgas or buried in the ground. At the time when the suburga was built in
the garden of the Peking palace in 1271, there were used, according to the Empress' wish, 1008
turrets made of the most expensive perfumes, mixed with pounded gold, silver, pearls, and corals,
and 130,000 ts'a-ts'a made of ordinary perfumes." (Palladius, 29.--H. C.)]

NOTE 13.--There is no exaggeration in this number. Turner speaks of 2500 monks in one Tibetan
convent. Huc mentions Chorchi, north of the Great Wall, as containing 2000; and Kúnbúm, where
he and Gabet spent several months, on the borders of Shensi and Tibet, had nearly 4000. The
missionary itinerary from Nepal to L'hasa given by Giorgi, speaks of a group of convents at
a place called Brephung, which formerly contained 10,000 inmates, and at the time of the journey
(about 1700) still contained 5000, including attendants. Dr. Campbell gives a list of twelve
chief convents in L'hasa and its vicinity (not including the Potala or Residence of the Grand
Lama), of which one is said to have 7500 members, resident and itinerary. Major Montgomerie's
Pandit gives the same convent 7700 Lamas. In the great monastery at L'hasa called Labrang,
they show a copper kettle holding more than 100 buckets, which was used to make tea for the
Lamas who performed the daily temple service. The monasteries are usually, as the text says,
like small towns, clustered round the great temples. That represented at p. 224 is at Jehol,
and is an imitation of the Potala at L'hasa. (Huc's Tartary, etc., pp. 45, 208, etc.; Alph.
Tibetan, 453; J. A. S. B. XXIV. 219; J. R. G. S. XXXVIII. 168; Koeppen, II. 338.) [La Géographie,
II. 1901, pp. 242-247, has an article by Mr. J. Deniker, La Première Photographie de Lhassa,
with a view of Potala, in 1901, from a photograph by M. O. Norzunov; it is interesting to compare
it with the view given by Kircher in 1670.--H. C.]

["The monasteries with numbers of monks, who, as M. Polo asserts, behaved decently, evidently
belonged to Chinese Buddhists, ho-shang; in Kúblái's time they had two monasteries in Shangtu,
in the north-east and north-west parts of the town." (Palladius, 29.) Rubruck (Rockhill's ed.
p. 145) says: "All the priests (of the idolaters) shave their heads, and are dressed in saffron
colour, and they observe chastity from the time they shave their heads, and they live in congregations
of one or two hundred."--H. C.]

NOTE 14.--There were many anomalies in the older Lamaism, and it permitted, at least in some
sects of it which still subsist, the marriage of the clergy under certain limitations and conditions.
One of Giorgi's missionaries speaks of a Lama of high hereditary rank as a spiritual prince
who marries, but separates from his wife as soon as he has a son, who after certain trials
is deemed worthy to be his successor. ["A good number of Lamas were married, as M. Polo correctly
remarks; their wives were known amongst the Chinese, under the name of Fan-sao." (Ch'ue keng
lu, quoted by Palladius, 28.)--H. C.] One of the "reforms" of Tsongkhapa was the absolute prohibition
of marriage to the clergy, and in this he followed the institutes of the oldest Buddhism. Even
the Red Lamas, or unreformed, cannot now marry without a dispensation.

But even the oldest orthodox Buddhism had its Lay brethren and Lay sisters (Upásaka and Upásiká),
and these are to be found in Tibet and Mongolia ( Voués au blanc, as it were). They are called
by the Mongols, by a corruption of the Sanskrit, Ubashi and Ubashanza. Their vows extend to
the strict keeping of the five great commandments of the Buddhist Law, and they diligently
ply the rosary and the prayer-wheel, but they are not pledged to celibacy, nor do they adopt
the tonsure. As a sign of their amphibious position, they commonly wear a red or yellow girdle.
These are what some travellers speak of as the lowest order of Lamas, permitted to marry; and
Polo may have regarded them in the same light.

(Koeppen, II. 82, 113, 276, 291; Timk. II. 354; Erman, II. 304; Alph. Tibet. 449.)

NOTE 15.--[Mr. Rockhill writes to me that "bran" is certainly Tibetan tsamba (parched barley).--H.
C.]

NOTE 16.--Marco's contempt for Patarins slips out in a later passage (Bk. III. ch. xx.). The
name originated in the eleventh century in Lombardy, where it came to be applied to the "heretics,"
otherwise called "Cathari." Muratori has much on the origin of the name Patarini, and mentions
a monument, which still exists, in the Piazza de' Mercanti at Milan, in honour of Oldrado Podestà
of that city in 1233, and which thus, with more pith than grammar, celebrates his meritorious
acts:--

  "Qui solium struxit Catharos ut debuit UXIT."

Other cities were as piously Catholic. A Mantuan chronicler records under 1276: "Captum fuit
Sermionum seu redditum fuit Ecclesiae, et capti fuerunt cercha CL Patarini contra fidem, inter
masculos et feminas; qui omnes ducti fuerunt Veronam, et ibi incarcerati, et pro magna parte
COMBUSTI." (Murat. Dissert. III. 238; Archiv. Stor. Ital. N.S. I. 49.)

NOTE 17.--Marsden, followed by Pauthier, supposes these unorthodox ascetics to be Hindu Sanyasis,
and the latter editor supposes even the name Sensi or Sensin to represent that denomination.
Such wanderers do occasionally find their way to Tartary; Gerbillon mentions having encountered
five of them at Kuku Khotan (supra, p. 286), and I think John Bell speaks of meeting one still
further north. But what is said of the great and numerous idols of the Sensin is inconsistent
with such a notion, as is indeed, it seems to me, the whole scope of the passage. Evidently
no occasional vagabonds from a far country, but some indigenous sectaries, are in question.
Nor would bran and hot water be a Hindu regimen. The staple diet of the Tibetans is Chamba,
the meal of toasted barley, mixed sometimes with warm water, but more frequently with hot tea,
and I think it is probable that these were the elements of the ascetic diet rather than the
mere bran which Polo speaks of. Semedo indeed says that some of the Buddhist devotees professed
never to take any food but tea; knowing people said they mixed with it pellets of sun-dried
beef. The determination of the sect intended in the text is, I conceive, to be sought in the
history of Chinese or Tibetan Buddhism and their rivals.

Both Baldelli and Neumann have indicated a general opinion that the Taossé or some branch of
that sect is meant, but they have entered into no particulars except in a reference by the
former to Shien-sien, a title of perfection affected by that sect, as the origin of Polo's
term Sensin. In the substance of this I think they are right. But I believe that in the text
this Chinese sect are, rightly or wrongly, identified with the ancient Tibetan sect of Bon-po,
and that part of the characters assigned belong to each.

First with regard to the Taossé. These were evidently the Patarini of the Buddhists in China
at this time, and Polo was probably aware of the persecution which the latter had stirred up
Kúblái to direct against them in 1281--persecution at least it is called, though it was but
a mild proceeding in comparison with the thing contemporaneously practised in Christian Lombardy,
for in heathen Cathay, books, and not human creatures, were the subjects doomed to burn, and
even that doom was not carried out.

["The Tao-sze," says M. Polo, "were looked upon as heretics by the other sects; that is, of
course; by the Lamas and Ho-shangs; in fact in his time a passionate struggle was going on
between Buddhists and Tao-sze, or rather a persecution of the latter by the former; the Buddhists
attributed to the doctrine of the Tao-sze a pernicious tendency, and accused them of deceit;
and in support of these assertions they pointed to some of their sacred books. Taking advantage
of their influence at Court, they persuaded Kúblái to decree the burning of these books, and
it was carried out in Peking." (Palladius, 30.)--H. C.]

The term which Polo writes as Sensin appears to have been that popularly applied to the Taossé
sect at the Mongol Court. Thus we are told by Rashíduddín in his History of Cathay: "In the
reign of Din-Wang, the 20th king of this (the 11th) Dynasty, TAI SHANG LÁI KÚN, was born. This
person is stated to have been accounted a prophet by the people of Khitá; his father's name
was Hán; like Shák-múni he is said to have been conceived by light, and it is related that
his mother bore him in her womb no less a period than 80 years. The people who embraced his
doctrine were called [Arabic] (Shan-shan or Shinshin)." This is a correct epitome of the Chinese
story of Laokiun or Lao-tsé, born in the reign of Ting Wang of the Cheu Dynasty. The whole
title used by Rashíduddín, Tai Shang Lao Kiun, "The Great Supreme Venerable Ruler," is that
formerly applied by the Chinese to this philosopher.

Further, in a Mongol [and Chinese] inscription of the year 1314 from the department of Si-ngan
fu, which has been interpreted and published by Mr. Wylie, the Taossé priests are termed Senshing.
[See Devéria, Notes d'Épigraphie, pp. 39-43, and Prince R. Bonaparte's Recueil, Pl. xii. No.
3.--H. C.]

Seeing then that the very term used by Polo is that applied by both Mongol and Persian authorities
of the period to the Taossé, we can have no doubt that the latter are indicated, whether the
facts stated about them be correct or not.

The word Senshing-ud (the Mongol plural) is represented in the Chinese version of Mr. Wylie's
inscription by Sín-sang, a conventional title applied to literary men, and this perhaps is
sufficient to determine the Chinese word which Sensin represents. I should otherwise have supposed
it to be the Shin-sian alluded to by Baldelli, and mentioned in the quotations which follow;
and indeed it seems highly probable that two terms so much alike should have been confounded
by foreigners. Semedo says of the Taossé: "They pretend that by means of certain exercises
and meditations one shall regain his youth, and others shall attain to be Shien-sien, i.e.
'Terrestrial Beati,' in whose state every desire is gratified, whilst they have the power to
transport themselves from one place to another, however distant, with speed and facility."
Schott, on the same subject, says: "By Sian or Shin-sian are understood in the old Chinese
conception, and particularly in that of the Tao-Kiao [or Taossé] sect, persons who withdraw
to the hills to lead the life of anchorites, and who have attained, either through their ascetic
observances or by the power of charms and elixirs, to the possession of miraculous gifts and
of terrestrial immortality." And M. Pauthier himself, in his translation of the Journey of
Khieu, an eminent doctor of this sect, to the camp of the Great Chinghiz in Turkestan, has
related how Chinghiz bestowed upon this personage "a seal with a tiger's head and a diploma"
(surely a lion's head, P'aizah and Yarligh; see infra, Bk. II. ch. vii. note 2), "wherein he
was styled Shin Sien or Divine Anchorite." Sian-jin again is the word used by Hiuen Tsang as
the equivalent to the name of the Indian Rishis, who attain to supernatural powers.

["Sensin is a sufficiently faithful transcription of Sien-seng (Sien-shing in Pekingese); the
name given by the Mongols in conversation as well as in official documents, to the Tao-sze,
in the sense of preceptors, just as Lamas were called by them Bacshi, which corresponds to
the Chinese Sien-seng. M. Polo calls them fasters and ascetics. It was one of the sects of
Taouism. There was another one which practised cabalistic and other mysteries. The Tao-sze
had two monasteries in Shangtu, one in the eastern, the other in the western part of the town."
(Palladius, 30.) --H.C.]

One class of the Tao priests or devotees does marry, but another class never does. Many of
them lead a wandering life, and derive a precarious subsistence from the sale of charms and
medical nostrums. They shave the sides of the head, and coil the remaining hair in a tuft on
the crown, in the ancient Chinese manner; moreover, says Williams, they "are recognised by
their slate-coloured robes." On the feast of one of their divinities whose title Williams translates
as "High Emperor of the Sombre Heavens," they assemble before his temple, "and having made
a great fire, about 15 or 20 feet in diameter, go over it barefoot, preceded by the priests
and bearing the gods in their arms. They firmly assert that if they possess a sincere mind
they will not be injured by the fire; but both priests and people get miserably burnt on these
occasions." Escayrac de Lauture says that on those days they leap, dance, and whirl round the
fire, striking at the devils with a straight Roman-like sword, and sometimes wounding themselves
as the priests of Baal and Moloch used to do.

(Astley, IV. 671; Morley in J. R. A. S. VI. 24; Semedo, 111, 114; De Mailla, IX. 410; J. As.
sér. V. tom. viii. 138; Schott über den Buddhismus etc. 71; Voyage de Khieou in J. As. sér.
VI. tom. ix. 41; Middle Kingdom, II. 247; Doolittle, 192; Esc. de Lauture, Mém. sur la Chine,
Religion, 87, 102; Pèler. Boudd. II. 370, and III. 468.)

Let us now turn to the Bon-po. Of this form of religion and its sectaries not much is known,
for it is now confined to the eastern and least known part of Tibet. It is, however, believed
to be a remnant of the old pre-Buddhistic worship of the powers of nature, though much modified
by the Buddhistic worship with which it has so long been in contact. Mr. Hodgson also pronounces
a collection of drawings of Bonpo divinities, which were made for him by a mendicant friar
of the sect from the neighbourhood of Tachindu, or Ta-t'sien-lu, to be saturated with Sakta
attributes, i.e. with the spirit of the Tantrika worship, a worship which he tersely defines
as "a mixture of lust, ferocity, and mummery," and which he believes to have originated in
an incorporation with the Indian religions of the rude superstitions of the primitive Turanians.
Mr. Hodgson was told that the Bonpo sect still possessed numerous and wealthy Vihars (or abbeys)
in Tibet. But from the information of the Catholic missionaries in Eastern Tibet, who have
come into closest contact with the sect, it appears to be now in a state of great decadence,
"oppressed by the Lamas of other sects, the Peunbo (Bonpo) think only of shaking off the yoke,
and getting deliverance from the vexations which the smallness of their number forces them
to endure." In June, 1863, apparently from such despairing motives, the Lamas of Tsodam, a
Bonpo convent in the vicinity of the mission settlement of Bonga in E. Tibet, invited the Rev.
Gabriel Durand to come and instruct them. "In this temple," he writes, "are the monstrous idols
of the sect of Peunbo; horrid figures, whose features only Satan could have inspired. They
are disposed about the enclosure according to their power and their seniority. Above the pagoda
is a loft, the nooks of which are crammed with all kinds of diabolical trumpery; little idols
of wood or copper, hideous masques of men and animals, superstitious Lama vestments, drums,
trumpets of human bones, sacrificial vessels, in short, all the utensils with which the devil's
servants in Tibet honour their master. And what will become of it all? The Great River, whose
waves roll to Martaban (the Lu-kiang or Salwen), is not more than 200 or 300 paces distant....
Besides the infernal paintings on the walls, eight or nine monstrous idols, seated at the inner
end of the pagoda, were calculated by their size and aspect to inspire awe. In the middle was
Tamba-Shi-Rob, the great doctor of the sect of the Peunbo, squatted with his right arm outside
his red scarf, and holding in his left the vase of knowledge.... On his right hand sat Keumta-Zon-bo,
'the All- Good,' ... with ten hands and three heads, one over the other.... At his right is
Dreuma, the most celebrated goddess of the sect. On the left of Tamba-Shi-Rob was another goddess,
whose name they never could tell me. On the left again of this anonymous goddess appeared Tam-pla-mi-ber,...
a monstrous dwarf environed by flames and his head garnished with a diadem of skulls. He trod
with one foot on the head of Shakia-tupa [Shakya Thubba, i.e. 'the Mighty Shakya,' the usual
Tibetan appellation of Sakya Buddha himself].... The idols are made of a coarse composition
of mud and stalks kneaded together, on which they put first a coat of plaster and then various
colours, or even silver or gold.... Four oxen would scarcely have been able to draw one of
the idols." Mr. Emilius Schlagintweit, in a paper on the subject of this sect, has explained
some of the names used by the missionary. Tamba-Shi-Rob is "bstanpa gShen-rabs," i.e. the doctrine
of Shen-rabs, who is regarded as the founder of the Bon religion. [Cf. Grenard, II. 407.--H.
C.] Keun-tu-zon-bo is "Kun-tu-bzang-po," "the All Best."

[Bon-po seems to be (according to Grenard, II. 410) a "coarse naturism combined with ancestral
worship" resembling Taoism. It has, however, borrowed a good deal from Buddhism. "I noticed,"
says Mr. Rockhill (Journey, 86), "a couple of grimy volumes of Bönbo sacred literature. One
of them I examined; it was a funeral service, and was in the usual Bönbo jargon, three-fourths
Buddhistic in its nomenclature." The Bon-po Lamas are above all sorcerers and necromancers,
and are very similar to the kam of the Northern Turks, the bô of the Mongols, and lastly to
the Shamans. During their operations, they wear a tall pointed black hat, surmounted by the
feather of a peacock, or of a cock, and a human skull. Their principal divinities are the White
God of Heaven, the Black Goddess of Earth, the Red Tiger and the Dragon; they worship an idol
called Kye'-p'ang formed of a mere block of wood covered with garments. Their sacred symbol
is the svastika turned from right to left [Symbol]. The most important of their monasteries
is Zo-chen gum-pa, in the north-east of Tibet, where they print most of their books. The Bonpos
Lamas "are very popular with the agricultural Tibetans, but not so much so with the pastoral
tribes, who nearly all belong to the Gélupa sect of the orthodox Buddhist Church." A. K. says,
"Buddhism is the religion of the country; there are two sects, one named Mangba and the other
Chiba or Baimbu." Explorations made by A----K----, 34. Mangba means "Esoteric," Chiba (p'yi-ba),
"Exoteric," and Baimbu is Bönbo. Rockhill, Journey, 289, et passim.; Land of the Lamas, 217-218;
Grenard, Mission Scientifique, II. 407 seqq.--H. C.]

There is an indication in Koeppen's references that the followers of the Bon doctrine are sometimes
called in Tibet Nag-choi, or "Black Sect," as the old and the reformed Lamas are called respectively
the "Red" and the "Yellow." If so, it is reasonable to conclude that the first appellation,
like the two last, has a reference to the colour of clothing affected by the priesthood.

The Rev. Mr. Jaeschke writes from Lahaul: "There are no Bonpos in our part of the country,
and as far as we know there cannot be many of them in the whole of Western Tibet, i.e. in Ladak,
Spiti, and all the non-Chinese provinces together; we know, therefore, not much more of them
than has been made known to the European public by different writers on Buddhism in Tibet,
and lately collected by Emil de Schlagintweit.... Whether they can be with certainty identified
with the Chinese Taossé I cannot decide, as I don't know if anything like historical evidence
about their Chinese origin has been detected anywhere, or if it is merely a conclusion from
the similarity of their doctrines and practices.... But the Chinese author of the Wei-tsang-tu-Shi,
translated by Klaproth, under the title of Description du Tubet (Paris, 1831), renders Bonpo
by Taossé. So much seems to be certain that it was the ancient religion of Tibet, before Buddhism
penetrated into the country, and that even at later periods it several times gained the ascendancy
when the secular power was of a disposition averse to the Lamaitic hierarchy. Another opinion
is that the Bon religion was originally a mere fetishism, and related to or identical with
Shamanism; this appears to me very probable and easy to reconcile with the former supposition,
for it may afterwards, on becoming acquainted with the Chinese doctrine of the 'Taossé,' have
adorned itself with many of its tenets.... With regard to the following particulars, I have
got most of my information from our Lama, a native of the neighbourhood of Tashi Lhunpo, whom
we consulted about all your questions. The extraordinary asceticism which struck Marco Polo
so much is of course not to be understood as being practised by all members of the sect, but
exclusively, or more especially, by the priests. That these never marry, and are consequently
more strictly celibatary than many sects of the Lamaitic priesthood, was confirmed by our Lama."
(Mr. Jaeschke then remarks upon the bran to much the same effect as I have done above.) "The
Bonpos are by all Buddhists regarded as heretics. Though they worship idols partly the same,
at least in name, with those of the Buddhists,... their rites seem to be very different. The
most conspicuous and most generally known of their customs, futile in itself, but in the eyes
of the common people the greatest sign of their sinful heresy, is that they perform the religious
ceremony of making a turn round a sacred object in the opposite direction to that prescribed
by Buddhism. As to their dress, our Lama said that they had no particular colour of garments,
but their priests frequently wore red clothes, as some sects of the Buddhist priesthood do.
Mr. Heyde, however, once on a journey in our neighbouring county of Langskar, saw a man clothed
in black with blue borders, who the people said was a Bonpo."

[Mr. Rockhill (Journey , 63) saw at Kao miao-tzu "a red-gowned, long-haired Bönbo Lama," and
at Kumbum (p. 68), "was surprised to see quite a large number of Bönbo Lamas, recognisable
by their huge mops of hair and their red gowns, and also from their being dirtier than the
ordinary run of people."--H. C.]

The identity of the Bonpo and Taossé seems to have been accepted by Csoma de Kórös, who identifies
the Chinese founder of the latter, Lao-tseu, with the Shen-rabs of the Tibetan Bonpos. Klaproth
also says, "Bhonbp'o, Bhanpo, and Shen, are the names by which are commonly designated (in
Tibetan) the Taoszu, or follower of the Chinese philosopher Laotseu."[11] Schlagintweit refers
to Schmidt's Tibetan Grammar (p. 209) and to the Calcutta edition of the Fo-kouè-ki (p. 218)
for the like identification, but I do not know how far any two of these are independent testimonies.
General Cunningham, however, fully accepts the identity, and writes to me: "Fahian (ch. xxiii.)
calls the heretics who assembled at Râmagrâma Taossé,[12] thus identifying them with the Chinese
Finitimists. The Taossé are, therefore, the same as the Swâstikas, or worshippers of the mystic
cross Swasti, who are also Tirthakaras, or 'Pure-doers.' The synonymous word Punya is probably
the origin of Pon or Bon, the Tibetan Finitimists. From the same word comes the Burmese P'ungyi
or Pungi." I may add that the Chinese envoy to Cambodia in 1296, whose narrative Rémusat has
translated, describes a sect which he encountered there, apparently Brahminical, as Taossé.
And even if the Bonpo and the Taossé were not fundamentally identical, it is extremely probable
that the Tibetan and Mongol Buddhists should have applied to them one name and character. Each
played towards them the same part in Tibet and in China respectively; both were heretic sects
and hated rivals; both made high pretensions to asceticism and supernatural powers; both, I
think we see reason to believe, affected the dark clothing which Polo assigns to the Sensin;
both, we may add, had "great idols and plenty of them." We have seen in the account of the
Taossé the ground that certain of their ceremonies afford for the allegation that they "sometimes
also worship fire," whilst the whole account of that rite and of others mentioned by Duhalde,[13]
shows what a powerful element of the old devil-dancing Shamanism there is in their practice.
The French Jesuit, on the other hand, shows us what a prominent place female divinities occupied
in the Bon-po Pantheon,[14] though we cannot say of either sect that "their idols are all feminine."
A strong symptom of relation between the two religions, by the way, occurs in M. Durand's account
of the Bon Temple. We see there that Shen-rabs, the great doctor of the sect, occupies a chief
and central place among the idols. Now in the Chinese temples of the Taossé the figure of their
Doctor Lao-tseu is one member of the triad called the "Three Pure Ones," which constitute the
chief objects of worship. This very title recalls General Cunningham's etymology of Bonpo.

[At the quarterly fair (yueh kai) of Ta-li (Yun-Nan), Mr. E. C. Baber (Travels, 158-159) says:
"A Fakir with a praying machine, which he twirled for the salvation of the pious at the price
of a few cash, was at once recognised by us; he was our old acquaintance, the Bakhsi, whose
portrait is given in Colonel Yule's Marco Polo."--H. C.]

(Hodgson, in J. R. A. S. XVIII. 301-302, 424-427; E. Schlagintweit, Ueber die Bon-pa Sekte
in Tibet, in the Sitzensberichte of the Munich Acad. for 1866, Heft I. pp. 1-12; Koeppen, II.
260; Ladak, p. 358; J. As. sér. II. tom. i. 411-412; Rémusat. Nouv. Mél. Asiat. I. 112; Astley,
IV. 205; Doolittle, 191.)

NOTE 18.--Pauthier's text has blons, no doubt an error for blous. In the G. Text it is bloies.
Pauthier interprets the latter term as "blond ardent," whilst the glossary to the G. Text explains
it as both blue and white. Raynouard's Romance Dict. explains Bloi as "Blond." Ramusio has
biave, and I have no doubt that blue is the meaning. The same word (bloie) is used in the G.
Text, where Polo speaks of the bright colours of the Palace tiles at Cambaluc, and where Pauthier's
text has "vermeil et jaune et vert et blou," and again (infra, Bk. II. ch. xix.), where the
two corps of huntsmen are said to be clad respectively in vermeil and in bloie. Here, again,
Pauthier's text has bleu. The Crusca in the description of the Sensin omits the colours altogether;
in the two other passages referred to it has bioda, biodo.

["The Tao-sze, says Marco Polo, wear dresses of black and blue linen; i.e. they wear dresses
made of tatters of black and blue linen, as can be seen also at the present day." (Palladius,
30.)--H. C.]

NOTE 19.--["The idols of the Tao-sze, according to Marco Polo's statement, have female names;
in fact, there are in the pantheon of Taoism a great many female divinities, still enjoying
popular veneration in China; such are Tow Mu (the 'Ursa major,' constellation), Pi-hia-yuen
Kiun (the celestial queen), female divinities for lying-in women, for children, for diseases
of the eyes; and others, which are to be seen everywhere. The Tao-sze have, besides these,
a good number of male divinities, bearing the title of Kiun in common with female divinities;
both these circumstances might have led Marco Polo to make the above statement." (Palladius,
p. 30.)--H. C.]

[1] This distance is taken from a tracing of the map prepared for Dr.
    Bushell's paper quoted below. But there is a serious discrepancy
    between this tracing and the observed position of Dolon-nor, which
    determines that of Shang-tu, as stated to me in a letter from Dr.
    Bushell. [See Note 1.]

[2] These particulars were obtained by Dr. Bushell through the
    Archimandrite Palladius, from the MS. account of a Chinese traveller
    who visited Shangtu about two hundred years ago, when probably the
    whole inscription was above ground. The inscription is also mentioned
    in the Imp. Geography of the present Dynasty, quoted by Klaproth. This
    work gives the interior wall 5 li to the side, instead of a li,
    and the outer wall 10 li, instead of 4 li. By Dr. Bushell's
    kindness, I give a reduction of his sketch plan (see Itinerary Map,
    No. IV. at end of this volume), and also a plate of the heading of the
    inscription. The translation of this is: "Monument conferred by the
    Emperor of the August Yuen (Dynasty) in memory of His High Eminence
    Yun Hien (styled) Chang-Lao (canonised as) Shou-Kung (Prince of
    Longevity)." [See Missions de Chine et du Congo No. 28, Mars, 1891,
    Bruxelles.]

[3] Ramusio's version runs thus: "The palace presents one side to the
    centre of the city and the other to the city wall. And from either
    extremity of the palace where it touches the city wall, there runs
    another wall, which fetches a compass and encloses a good 16 miles of
    plain, and so that no one can enter this enclosure except by passing
    through the palace."

[4] This narrative, translated from Chinese into Russian by Father
    Palladius, and from the Russian into English by Mr. Eugene Schuyler,
    Secretary of the U.S. Legation at St. Petersburg, was obligingly sent
    to me by the latter gentleman, and appeared in the Geographical
    Magazine for January, 1875, p. 7.

[5] See Bk. II. chap. xiv. note 3.

[6] In the first edition I had supposed a derivation of the Persian words
    Jádú and Jádúgari, used commonly in India for conjuring, from the
    Tartar use of Yadah. And Pallas says the Kirghiz call their witches
    Jádugar. (Voy. II. 298.) But I am assured by Sir H. Rawlinson that
    this etymology is more than doubtful, and that at any rate the Persian
    (Jádú) is probably older than the Turkish term. I see that M. Pavet
    de Courteille derives Yadah from a Mongol word signifying "change of
    weather," etc.

[7] [See W. Foerster's ed., Halle, 1887, p. 15, 386.--H. C.]

[8] A young Afghan related in the presence of Arthur Conolly at Herat that
    on a certain occasion when provisions ran short the Russian General
    gave orders that 50,000 men should be killed and served out as
    rations! (I. 346.)

[9] Ar. Táfir, a sordid, squalid fellow.

[10] [Cf. Paulin Paris's ed., 1848, II. p. 5.--H. C.]

[11] Shen, or coupled with jin "people," Shenjin, in this sense
    affords another possible origin of the word Sensin; but it may in
    fact be at bottom, as regards the first syllable, the same with the
    etymology we have preferred.

[12] I do not find this allusion in Mr. Beal's new version of Fahian. [See
    Rémusat's éd. p. 227; Klaproth says (Ibid. p. 230) that the Tao-szu
    are called in Tibetan Bonbò and Youngdhroungpa.--H. C.]

[13] Apparently they had at their command the whole encyclopaedia of
    modern "Spiritualists." Duhalde mentions among their sorceries the art
    of producing by their invocations the figures of Lao-tseu and their
    divinities in the air, and of making a pencil to write answers to
    questions without anybody touching it.

[14] It is possible that this may point to some report of the mystic
    impurities of the Tantrists. The Saktián, or Tantrists, according to
    the Dabistan, hold that the worship of a female divinity affords a
    greater recompense. (II. 155.)

BOOK SECOND.

(1.) ACCOUNT OF THE GREAT KAAN CUBLAY; OF HIS PALACES AND CAPITAL; HIS COURT, GOVERNMENT, AND
SPORTS.

(2.) CITIES AND PROVINCES VISITED BY THE TRAVELLER ON ONE JOURNEY WESTWARD FROM THE CAPITAL
TO THE FRONTIERS OF MIEN IN THE DIRECTION OF INDIA.

(3.) AND ON ANOTHER SOUTHWARD FROM THE CAPITAL TO FUCHU AND ZAYTON.

BOOK II.

PART I.--THE KAAN, HIS COURT AND CAPITAL.

CHAPTER I.

OF CUBLAY KAAN, THE GREAT KAAN NOW REIGNING, AND OF HIS GREAT PUISSANCE.

Now am I come to that part of our Book in which I shall tell you of the great and wonderful
magnificence of the Great Kaan now reigning, by name CUBLAY KAAN; Kaan being a title which
signifyeth "The Great Lord of Lords," or Emperor. And of a surety he hath good right to such
a title, for all men know for a certain truth that he is the most potent man, as regards forces
and lands and treasure, that existeth in the world, or ever hath existed from the time of our
First Father Adam until this day. All this I will make clear to you for truth, in this book
of ours, so that every one shall be fain to acknowledge that he is the greatest Lord that is
now in the world, or ever hath been. And now ye shall hear how and wherefore.[NOTE 1]

NOTE 1.--According to Sanang Setzen, Chinghiz himself discerned young Kúblái's superiority.
On his deathbed he said: "The words of the lad Kúblái are well worth attention; see, all of
you, that ye heed what he says! One day he will sit in my seat and bring you good fortune such
as you have had in my day!" (p. 105).

The Persian history of Wassáf thus exalts Kúblái: "Although from the frontiers of this country
('Irák) to the Centre of Empire, the Focus of the Universe, the genial abode of the ever-Fortunate
Emperor and Just Kaan, is a whole year's journey, yet the stories that have been spread abroad,
even in these parts, of his glorious deeds, his institutes, his decisions, his justice, the
largeness and acuteness of his intellect, his correctness of judgment, his great powers of
administration, from the mouths of credible witnesses, of well-known merchants and eminent
travellers, are so surpassing, that one beam of his glories, one fraction of his great qualities,
suffices to eclipse all that history tells of the Caesars of Rome, of the Chosroes of Persia,
of the Khagans of China, of the (Himyarite) Kails of Arabia, of the Tobbas of Yemen, and the
Rajas of India, of the monarchs of the houses of Sassan and Búya, and of the Seljukian Sultans."
(Hammer's Wassaf, orig. p. 37.)

Some remarks on Kúblái and his government by a Chinese author, in a more rational and discriminative
tone, will be found below under ch. xxiii., note 2.

A curious Low-German MS. at Cologne, giving an account of the East, says of the "Keyser von
Kathagien--syn recht Name is der groisse Hunt!" (Magnus Canis, the Big Bow-wow as it were.
See Orient und Occident, vol. i. p. 640.)

CHAPTER II.

CONCERNING THE REVOLT OF NAYAN, WHO WAS UNCLE TO THE GREAT KAAN CUBLAY.

Now this Cublay Kaan is of the right Imperial lineage, being descended from Chinghis Kaan,
the first sovereign of all the Tartars. And he is the sixth Lord in that succession, as I have
already told you in this book. He came to the throne in the year of Christ, 1256, and the Empire
fell to him because of his ability and valour and great worth, as was right and reason.[NOTE
1] His brothers, indeed, and other kinsmen disputed his claim, but his it remained, both because
maintained by his great valour, and because it was in law and right his, as being directly
sprung of the imperial line.

Up to the year of Christ now running, to wit 1298, he hath reigned two-and-forty years, and
his age is about eighty-five, so that he must have been about forty-three years of age when
he first came to the throne.[NOTE 2] Before that time he had often been to the wars, and had
shown himself a gallant soldier and an excellent captain. But after coming to the throne he
never went to the wars in person save once.[NOTE 3] This befel in the year of Christ, 1286,
and I will tell you why he went.

There was a great Tartar Chief, whose name was NAYAN,[NOTE 4] a young man [of thirty], Lord
over many lands and many provinces; and he was Uncle to the Emperor Cublay Kaan of whom we
are speaking. And when he found himself in authority this Nayan waxed proud in the insolence
of his youth and his great power; for indeed he could bring into the field 300,000 horsemen,
though all the time he was liegeman to his nephew, the Great Kaan Cublay, as was right and
reason. Seeing then what great power he had, he took it into his head that he would be the
Great Kaan's vassal no longer; nay more, he would fain wrest his empire from him if he could.
So this Nayan sent envoys to another Tartar Prince called CAIDU, also a great and potent Lord,
who was a kinsman of his, and who was a nephew of the Great Kaan and his lawful liegeman also,
though he was in rebellion and at bitter enmity with his sovereign Lord and Uncle. Now the
message that Nayan sent was this: That he himself was making ready to march against the Great
Kaan with all his forces (which were great), and he begged Caidu to do likewise from his side,
so that by attacking Cublay on two sides at once with such great forces they would be able
to wrest his dominion from him.

And when Caidu heard the message of Nayan, he was right glad thereat, and thought the time
was come at last to gain his object. So he sent back answer that he would do as requested;
and got ready his host, which mustered a good hundred thousand horsemen.

Now let us go back to the Great Kaan, who had news of all this plot.

NOTE 1.--There is no doubt that Kúblái was proclaimed Kaan in 1260 (4th month), his brother
Mangku Kaan having perished during the seige of Hochau in Ssechwan in August of the preceding
year. But Kúblái had come into Cathay some years before as his brother's Lieutenant.

He was the fifth, not sixth, Supreme Kaan, as we have already noticed. (Bk. I. ch. li. note 2.)

NOTE 2.--Kúblái was born in the eighth month of the year corresponding to 1216, and had he
lived to 1298 would have been eighty-two years old. [According to Dr. E. Bretschneider (Peking,
30), quoting the Yuen-Shi, Kúblái died at Khanbaligh, in the Tze-t'an tien in February, 1294.--H.
C.] But by Mahomedan reckoning he would have been close upon eighty-five. He was the fourth
son of Tuli, who was the youngest of Chinghiz's four sons by his favourite wife Burté Fujin.
(See De Mailla, IX. 255, etc.)

NOTE 3.--This is not literally true; for soon after his accession (in 1261) Kúblái led an army
against his brother and rival Arikbuga, and defeated him. And again in his old age, if we credit
the Chinese annalist, in 1289, when his grandson Kanmala (or Kambala) was beaten on the northern
frontier by Kaidu, Kúblái took the field himself, though on his approach the rebels disappeared.

Kúblái and his brother Hulaku, young as they were, commenced their military career on Chinghiz's
last expedition (1226-1227). His most notable campaign was the conquest of Yunnan in 1253-1254.
(De Mailla, IX. 298, 441.)

NOTE 4.--NAYAN was no "uncle" of Kúblái's, but a cousin in a junior generation. For Kúblái
was the grandson of Chinghiz, and Nayan was the great-great-grandson of Chinghiz's brother
Uchegin, called in the Chinese annals Pilgutai. [Belgutai was Chinghiz's step-brother. (Palladius.)--H.
C.] On this brother, the great-uncle of Kúblái, and the commander of the latter's forces against
Arikbuga in the beginning of the reign, both Chinghiz and Kúblái had bestowed large territories
in Eastern Tartary towards the frontier of Corea, and north of Liaotong towards the Manchu
country. ["The situation and limits of his appanage are not clearly defined in history. According
to Belgutai's biography, it was between the Onon and Kerulen (Yuen shi), and according to Shin
Yao's researches (Lo fung low wen kao), at the confluence of the Argun and Shilka. Finally,
according to Harabadur's biography, it was situated in Abalahu, which geographically and etymologically
corresponds to modern Butkha (Yuen shi); Abalahu, as Kúblái himself said, was rich in fish;
indeed, after the suppression of Nayan's rebellion, the governor of that country used to send
to the Peking Court fishes weighing up to a thousand Chinese pounds (kin.). It was evidently
a country near the Amur River." (Palladius, l.c. 31.)--H. C.] Nayan had added to his inherited
territory, and become very powerful. ["History has apparently connected Nayan's appanage with
that of Hatan (a grandson of Hachiun, brother of Chinghiz Khan), whose ordo was contiguous
to Nayan's, on the left bank of the Amur, hypothetically east of Blagovietschensk, on the spot,
where still the traces of an ancient city can be seen. Nayan's possessions stretched south
to Kwang-ning, which belonged to his appanage, and it was from this town that he had the title
of prince of Kwang-ning (Yuen shi)." (Palladius, l.c. 31.)--H. C.] Kaidu had gained influence
over Nayan, and persuaded him to rise against Kúblái. A number of the other Mongol princes
took part with him. Kúblái was much disquieted at the rumours, and sent his great lieutenant
BAYAN to reconnoitre. Bayan was nearly captured, but escaped to court and reported to his master
the great armament that Nayan was preparing. Kúblái succeeded by diplomacy in detaching some
of the princes from the enterprise, and resolved to march in person to the scene of action,
whilst despatching Bayan to the Karakorum frontier to intercept Kaídu. This was in the summer
of 1287. What followed will be found in a subsequent note (ch. iv. note 6). (For Nayan's descent,
see the Genealogical Table in the Appendix (A).)

CHAPTER III.

HOW THE GREAT KAAN MARCHED AGAINST NAYAN.

When the Great Kaan heard what was afoot, he made his preparations in right good heart, like
one who feared not the issue of an attempt so contrary to justice. Confident in his own conduct
and prowess, he was in no degree disturbed, but vowed that he would never wear crown again
if he brought not those two traitorous and disloyal Tartar chiefs to an ill end. So swiftly
and secretly were his preparations made, that no one knew of them but his Privy Council, and
all were completed within ten or twelve days. In that time he had assembled good 360,000 horsemen,
and 100,000 footmen,--but a small force indeed for him, and consisting only of those that were
in the vicinity. For the rest of his vast and innumerable forces were too far off to answer
so hasty a summons, being engaged under orders from him on distant expeditions to conquer divers
countries and provinces. If he had waited to summon all his troops, the multitude assembled
would have been beyond all belief, a multitude such as never was heard of or told of, past
all counting. In fact, those 360,000 horsemen that he got together consisted merely of the
falconers and whippers-in that were about the court![NOTE 1]

And when he had got ready this handful (as it were) of his troops, he ordered his astrologers
to declare whether he should gain the battle and get the better of his enemies. After they
had made their observations, they told him to go on boldly, for he would conquer and gain a
glorious victory: whereat he greatly rejoiced.

So he marched with his army, and after advancing for 20 days they arrived at a great plain
where Nayan lay with all his host, amounting to some 400,000 horse. Now the Great Kaan's forces
arrived so fast and so suddenly that the others knew nothing of the matter. For the Kaan had
caused such strict watch to be made in every direction for scouts that every one that appeared
was instantly captured. Thus Nayan had no warning of his coming and was completely taken by
surprise; insomuch that when the Great Kaan's army came up, he was asleep in the arms of a
wife of his of whom he was extravagantly fond. So thus you see why it was that the Emperor
equipped his force with such speed and secrecy.

NOTE 1.--I am afraid Marco, in his desire to impress on his readers the great power of the
Kaan, is here giving the reins to exaggeration on a great scale.

Ramusio has here the following explanatory addition:--"You must know that in all the Provinces
of Cathay and Mangi, and throughout the Great Kaan's dominions, there are too many disloyal
folk ready to break into rebellion against their Lord, and hence it is needful in every province
containing large cities and much population, to maintain garrisons. These are stationed four
or five miles from the cities, and the latter are not allowed to have walls or gates by which
they might obstruct the entrance of the troops at their pleasure. These garrisons as well as
their commanders the Great Khan causes to be relieved every two years; and bridled in this
way the people are kept quiet, and can make no disturbance. The troops are maintained not only
by the pay which the Kaan regularly assigns from the revenues of each province, but also by
the vast quantities of cattle which they keep, and by the sale of milk in the cities, which
furnishes the means of buying what they require. They are scattered among their different stations,
at distances of 30, 40, or 60 days (from the capital); and had Cublay decided to summon but
the half of them, the number would have been incredible," etc.

[Palladius says (p. 37) that in the Mongol-Chinese documents, the Mongol garrisons cantoned
near the Chinese towns are mentioned under the name of Aolu, but no explanation of the term
is given.--H. C.]

The system of controlling garrisons, quartered at a few miles from the great cities, is that
which the Chinese followed at Kashgar, Yarkand, etc. It is, in fact, our own system in India,
as at Barrackpúr, Dinapúr, Sikandarábád, Mián Mír.

CHAPTER IV.

OF THE BATTLE THAT THE GREAT KAAN FOUGHT WITH NAYAN.

What shall I say about it? When day had well broken, there was the Kaan with all his host upon
a hill overlooking the plain where Nayan lay in his tent, in all security, without the slightest
thought of any one coming thither to do him hurt. In fact, this confidence of his was such
that he kept no vedettes whether in front or in rear; for he knew nothing of the coming of
the Great Kaan, owing to all the approaches having been completely occupied as I told you.
Moreover, the place was in a remote wilderness, more than thirty marches from the Court, though
the Kaan had made the distance in twenty, so eager was he to come to battle with Nayan.

And what shall I tell you next? The Kaan was there on the hill, mounted on a great wooden bartizan,[NOTE
1] which was borne by four well-trained elephants, and over him was hoisted his standard, so
high aloft that it could be seen from all sides. His troops were ordered in battles of 30,000
men apiece; and a great part of the horsemen had each a foot-soldier armed with a lance set
on the crupper behind him (for it was thus that the footmen were disposed of);[NOTE 2] and
the whole plain seemed to be covered with his forces. So it was thus that the Great Kaan's
army was arrayed for battle.

When Nayan and his people saw what had happened, they were sorely confounded, and rushed in
haste to arms. Nevertheless they made them ready in good style and formed their troops in an
orderly manner. And when all were in battle array on both sides as I have told you, and nothing
remained but to fall to blows, then might you have heard a sound arise of many instruments
of various music, and of the voices of the whole of the two hosts loudly singing. For this
is a custom of the Tartars, that before they join battle they all unite in singing and playing
on a certain two-stringed instrument of theirs, a thing right pleasant to hear. And so they
continue in their array of battle, singing and playing in this pleasing manner, until the great
Naccara of the Prince is heard to sound. As soon as that begins to sound the fight also begins
on both sides; and in no case before the Prince's Naccara sounds dare any commence fighting.
[NOTE 3]

So then, as they were thus singing and playing, though ordered and ready for battle, the great
Naccara of the Great Khan began to sound. And that of Nayan also began to sound. And thenceforward
the din of battle began to be heard loudly from this side and from that. And they rushed to
work so doughtily with their bows and their maces, with their lances and swords, and with the
arblasts of the footmen, that it was a wondrous sight to see. Now might you behold such flights
of arrows from this side and from that, that the whole heaven was canopied with them and they
fell like rain. Now might you see on this side and on that full many a cavalier and man-at-
arms fall slain, insomuch that the whole field seemed covered with them. From this side and
from that such cries arose from the crowds of the wounded and dying that had God thundered,
you would not have heard Him! For fierce and furious was the battle, and quarter there was
none given.[NOTE 4]

But why should I make a long story of it? You must know that it was the most parlous and fierce
and fearful battle that ever has been fought in our day. Nor have there ever been such forces
in the field in actual fight, especially of horsemen, as were then engaged--for, taking both
sides, there were not fewer than 760,000 horsemen, a mighty force! and that without reckoning
the footmen, who were also very numerous. The battle endured with various fortune on this side
and on that from morning till noon. But at the last, by God's pleasure and the right that was
on his side, the Great Khan had the victory, and Nayan lost the battle and was utterly routed.
For the army of the Great Kaan performed such feats of arms that Nayan and his host could stand
against them no longer, so they turned and fled. But this availed nothing for Nayan; for he
and all the barons with him were taken prisoners, and had to surrender to the Kaan with all
their arms.

Now you must know that Nayan was a baptized Christian, and bore the cross on his banner; but
this nought availed him, seeing how grievously he had done amiss in rebelling against his Lord.
For he was the Great Kaan's liegeman,[NOTE 5] and was bound to hold his lands of him like all
his ancestors before him.[NOTE 6]

NOTE 1.--"Une grande bretesche." Bretesche, Bertisca (whence old English Brattice, and Bartizan),
was a term applied to any boarded structure of defence or attack, but especially to the timber
parapets and roofs often placed on the top of the flanking-towers in mediaeval fortifications;
and this use quite explains the sort of structure here intended. The term and its derivative
Bartizan came later to be applied to projecting guérites or watch-towers of masonry. Brattice
in English is now applied to a fence round a pit or dangerous machinery. (See Muratori, Dissert.
Res. on the Wars and Sports of the Mongols and Romans) in a note regarding this battle writes
(p. 60): "It appears that it is an old custom in Persia, to use four elephants a-breast." The
Senate decreed Gordian III. to represent him triumphing after the Persian mode, with chariots
drawn with four elephants. Augustan Hist. vol. ii. p. 65. See plate, p. 52.--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--This circumstance is mentioned in the extract below from Gaubil. He may have taken
it from Polo, as it is not in Pauthier's Chinese extracts; but Gaubil has other facts not noticed
in these.

[Elephants came from the Indo-Chinese Kingdoms, Burma, Siam, Ciampa. --H. C.]

NOTE 3.--The specification of the Tartar instrument of two strings is peculiar to Pauthier's
texts. It was no doubt what Dr. Clarke calls "the balalaika or two-stringed lyre," the most
common instrument among the Kalmaks.

The sounding of the Nakkára as the signal of action is an old Pan-Asiatic custom, but I cannot
find that this very striking circumstance of the whole host of Tartars playing and singing
in chorus, when ordered for battle and waiting the signal from the boom of the Big Drum, is
mentioned by any other author.

The Nakkárah or Nagárah was a great kettledrum, formed like a brazen caldron, tapering to the
bottom and covered with buffalo-hide--at least 3-1/2 or 4 feet in diameter. Bernier, indeed,
tells of Nakkáras in use at the Court of Delhi that were not less than a fathom across; and
Tod speaks of them in Rájpútána as "about 8 or 10 feet in diameter." The Tartar Nakkárahs were
usually, I presume, carried on a camel; but as Kúblái had begun to use elephants, his may have
been carried on an elephant, as is sometimes the case in India. Thus, too, P. della Valle describes
those of an Indian Embassy at Ispahan: "The Indian Ambassador was also accompanied by a variety
of warlike instruments of music of strange kinds, and particularly by certain Naccheras of
such immense size that each pair had an elephant to carry them, whilst an Indian astride upon
the elephant between the two Naccheras played upon them with both hands, dealing strong blows
on this one and on that; what a din was made by these vast drums, and what a spectacle it was,
I leave you to imagine."

Joinville also speaks of the Nakkara as the signal for action: "So he was setting his host
in array till noon, and then he made those drums of theirs to sound that they call Nacaires,
and then they set upon us horse and foot." The Great Nakkara of the Tartars appears from several
Oriental histories to have been called Kúrkah. I cannot find this word in any dictionary accessible
to me, but it is in the Ain Akbari (Kawargah) as distinct from the Nakkárah. Abulfazl tells
us that Akbar not only had a rare knowledge of the science of music, but was likewise an excellent
performer--especially on the Nakkárah!

The privilege of employing the Nakkara in personal state was one granted by the sovereign as
a high honour and reward.

The crusades naturalised the word in some form or other in most European languages, but in
our own apparently with a transfer of meaning. For Wright defines Naker as "a cornet or horn
of brass." And Chaucer's use seems to countenance this:--

  "Pipes, Trompes, Nakeres, and Clariounes,
  That in the Bataille blowen blody sounes."
      --The Knight's Tale.

On the other hand, Nacchera, in Italian, seems always to have retained the meaning of kettle-drum,
with the slight exception of a local application at Siena to a metal circle or triangle struck
with a rod. The fact seems to be that there is a double origin, for the Arabic dictionaries
not only have Nakkarah, but Nakír and Nákúr, "cornu, tuba." The orchestra of Bibars Bundukdári,
we are told, consisted of 40 pairs of kettle-drums, 4 drums, 4 hautbois, and 20 trumpets (Nakír).
(Sir B. Frere; Della Valle, II. 21; Tod's Rájasthán, I. 328; Joinville, p. 83; N. et E. XIV.
129, and following note; Blochmann's Ain-i-Akbari, pp. 50-51; Ducange, by Haenschel, s.v.;
Makrizi, I. 173.)

[Dozy (Supp. aux Dict. Arabes) has [Arabic] [naqqarè] "petit tambour ou timbale, bassin de
cuivre ou de terre recouvert d'une peau tendue," and "grosses timbales en cuivre portées sur
un chameau ou un mulet."--Devic (Dict. Étym.) writes: "Bas Latin, nacara; bas grec, [Greek:
anáchara]. Ce n'est point comme on l'a dit, l'Arabe [Arabic] naqïr ou [Arabic] náqör, qui signifient
trompette, clairon, mais le persan [Arabic] en arabe, [Arabic] naqara, timbale." It is to be
found also in Abyssinia and south of Gondokoro; it is mentioned in the Sedjarat Malayu.

In French, it gives nacaire and gnacare from the Italian gnacare. "Quatre jouent de la guitare,
quatre des castagnettes, quatre des gnacares." (MOLIÈRE, Pastorale Comique.)--H. C.]

NOTE 4.--This description of a fight will recur again and again till we are very tired of it.
It is difficult to say whether the style is borrowed from the historians of the East or the
romancers of the West. Compare the two following parallels. First from an Oriental history:--

"The Ear of Heaven was deafened with the din of the great Kurkahs and Drums, and the Earth
shook at the clangour of the Trumpets and Clarions. The shafts began to fall like the rain-drops
of spring, and blood flowed till the field looked like the Oxus." (J. A. S. sér. IV. tom. xix. 256)

Next from an Occidental Romance:--

  "Now rist grete tabour betyng,
  Blaweyng of pypes, and ek trumpyng,
  Stedes lepyng, and ek arnyng,
  Of sharp speres, and avalyng
  Of stronge knighttes, and wyghth meetyng;
  Launces breche and increpyng;
  Knighttes fallyng, stedes lesyng;
  Herte and hevedes thorough kervyng;
  Swerdes draweyng, lymes lesyng
  Hard assaylyng, strong defendyng,
  Stiff withstondyng and wighth fleigheyng.
  Sharp of takyng armes spoylyng;
  So gret bray, so gret crieyng,
  Ifor the folk there was dyeyng;
  So muche dent, noise of sweord,
  The thondur blast no myghte beo hirde,
  No the sunne hadde beo seye,
  For the dust of the poudré!
  No the weolkyn seon be myght,
  So was arewes and quarels flyght."
      --King Alisaunder, in Weber, I. 93-94.

And again:--

  "The eorthe quaked heom undur,
  No scholde mon have herd the thondur."
      --Ibid. 142.

Also in a contemporary account of the fall of Acre (1291): "Renovatur ergo bellum terribile
inter alterutros ... clamoribus interjectis hine et inde ad terrorem; ita ut nec Deus tonans
in sublime coaudiri potuisset." (De Excidio Acconis, in Martene et Durand, V. 780.)

NOTE 5.--"Car il estoit homme au Grant Kaan." (See note 2, ch. xiv., in Prologue.)

NOTE 6.--In continuation of note 4, chap. ii., we give Gaubil's conclusion of the story of
Nayan: "The Emperor had gone ahead with a small force, when Nayan's General came forward with
100,000 men to make a reconnaissance. The Sovereign, however, put on a bold front, and though
in great danger of being carried off, showed no trepidation. It was night, and an urgent summons
went to call troops to the Emperor's aid. They marched at once, the horsemen taking the foot
soldiers on the crupper behind them. Nayan all this while was taking it quietly in his camp,
and his generals did not venture to attack the Emperor, suspecting an ambuscade. Liting then
took ten resolute men, and on approaching the General's camp, caused a Fire-Pao to be discharged;
the report caused a great panic among Nayan's troops, who were very ill disciplined at the
best. Meanwhile the Chinese and Tartar troops had all come up, and Nayan was attacked on all
sides: by Liting at the head of the Chinese, by Yusitemur at the head of the Mongols, by Tutuha
and the Emperor in person at the head of his guards and the troops of Kincha (Kipchak). The
presence of the Emperor rendered the army invincible, and Nayan's forces were completely defeated.
That prince himself was taken, and afterwards put to death. The battle took place in the vicinity
of the river Liao, and the Emperor returned in triumph to Shangtu" (207). The Chinese record
given in detail by Pauthier is to the like effect, except as to the Kaan's narrow escape, of
which it says nothing.

As regards the Fire-Pao (the latter word seems to have been applied to military machines formerly,
and now to artillery), I must refer to Favé and Reinaud's very curious and interesting treatise
on the Greek fire (du Feu Grégeois). They do not seem to assent to the view that the arms of
this description which are mentioned in the Mongol wars were cannon, but rather of the nature
of rockets.

[Dr. G. Schlegel (T'oung Pao, No. 1, 1902), in a paper entitled, On the Invention and Use of
Fire-Arms and Gunpowder in China, prior to the Arrival of Europeans, says that "now, notwithstanding
all what has been alleged by different European authors against the use of gunpowder and fire-arms
in China, I maintain that not only the Mongols in 1293 had cannon, but that they were already
acquainted with them in 1232." Among his many examples, we quote the following from the Books
of the Ming Dynasty: "What were anciently called P'ao were all machines for hurling stones.
In the beginning of the Mongol Dynasty (A.D. 1260), p'ao (catapults) of the Western regions
were procured. In the siege [in 1233] of the city of Ts'ai chow of the Kin (Tatars), fire was
for the first time employed (in these p'ao), but the art of making them was not handed down,
and they were afterwards seldom used."--H. C.]

CHAPTER V.

HOW THE GREAT KAAN CAUSED NAYAN TO BE PUT TO DEATH.

And when the Great Kaan learned that Nayan was taken right glad was he, and commanded that
he should be put to death straightway and in secret, lest endeavours should be made to obtain
pity and pardon for him, because he was of the Kaan's own flesh and blood. And this was the
way in which he was put to death: he was wrapt in a carpet, and tossed to and fro so mercilessly
that he died. Now these provinces that had been under the Lordship of Nayan were four in number;
to wit, the first called CHORCHA; the second CAULY; the third BARSCOL; the fourth SIKINTINJU.
Of all these four great provinces had Nayan been Lord; it was a very great dominion.[NOTE 2]

And after the Great Kaan had conquered Nayan, as you have heard, it came to pass that the different
kinds of people who were present, Saracens and Idolaters and Jews,[NOTE 3] and many others
that believed not in God, did gibe those that were Christians because of the cross that Nayan
had borne on his standard, and that so grievously that there was no bearing it. Thus they would
say to the Christians: "See now what precious help this God's Cross of yours hath rendered
Nayan, who was a Christian and a worshipper thereof." And such a din arose about the matter
that it reached the Great Kaan's own ears. When it did so, he sharply rebuked those who cast
these gibes at the Christians; and he also bade the Christians be of good heart, "for if the
Cross had rendered no help to Nayan, in that It had done right well; nor could that which was
good, as It was, have done otherwise; for Nayan was a disloyal and traitorous Rebel against
his Lord, and well deserved that which had befallen him. Wherefore the Cross of your God did
well in that It gave him no help against the right." And this he said so loud that everybody
heard him. The Christians then replied to the Great Kaan: "Great King, you say the truth indeed,
for our Cross can render no one help in wrong-doing; and therefore it was that It aided not
Nayan, who was guilty of crime and disloyalty, for It would take no part in his evil deeds."

And so thenceforward no more was heard of the floutings of the unbelievers against the Christians;
for they heard very well what the Sovereign said to the latter about the Cross on Nayan's banner,
and its giving him no help. And Kaempfer, relating the conspiracy of Faulcon at the Court of
Siam, says that two of the king's brothers, accused of participation, were beaten to death
with clubs of sandal-wood, "for the respect entertained for the blood-royal forbids its being
shed." See also note 6, ch. vi. Bk. I., on the death of the Khalif Mosta'sim Billah. (Pereg.
Quat. p. 115; Mission to Ava, p. 229; Kaempfer; I. 19.)

NOTE 2.--CHORCHA is the Manchu country, Niuché of the Chinese. (Supra, note 2, ch. xlvi. Bk.
I.) ["Chorcha is Churchin.--Nayan, as vassal of the Mongol khans, had the commission to keep
in obedience the people of Manchuria (subdued in 1233), and to care for the security of the
country (Yuen shi); there is no doubt that he shared these obligations with his relative Hatan,
who stood nearer to the native tribes of Manchuria." (Palladius, 32.)--H. C.]

KAULI is properly Corea, probably here a district on the frontier thereof, as it is improbable
that Nayan had any rule over Corea. ["The Corean kingdom proper could not be a part of the
prince's appanage. Marco Polo might mean the northern part of Corea, which submitted to the
Mongols in A.D. 1269, with sixty towns, and which was subordinated entirely to the central
administration in Liao-yang. As to the southern part of Corea, it was left to the king of Corea,
who, however, was a vassal of the Mongols." (Palladius, 32.) The king of Corea (Ko rye, Kao-li)
was in 1288 Chyoung ryel wang (1274-1298); the capital was Syong-to, now Kai syeng (K'ai-ch'eng).--H.
C.]

BARSKUL, "Leopard-Lake," is named in Sanang Setsen (p. 217), but seems there to indicate some
place in the west of Mongolia, perhaps the Barkul of our maps. This Barskul must have been
on the Manchu frontier. [There are in the Yuen-shi the names of the department of P'u-yü-lu,
and of the place Pu-lo-ho, which, according to the system of Chinese transcription, approach
to Barscol; but it is difficult to prove this identification, since our knowledge of these
places is very scanty; it only remains to identify Barscol with Abalahu, which is already known;
a conjecture all the more probable as the two names of P'u-yü-lu and Pu-lo-ho have also some
resemblance to Abalahu. (Palladius, 32.) Mr. E. H. Parker says (China Review, xviii. p. 261)
that Barscol may be Pa-la ssu or Bars Koto [in Tsetsen]. "This seems the more probable in that
Cauly and Chorcha are clearly proved to be Corea and Niuché or Manchuria, so that Bars Koto
would naturally fall within Nayan's appanage."--H. C.]

The reading of the fourth name is doubtful, Sichuigiu, Sichingiu (G. T.), Sichin-tingiu etc.
The Chinese name of Mukden is Shing-king, but I know not if it be so old as our author's time.
I think it very possible that the real reading is Sinchin-tingin, and that it represents SHANGKING-TUNGKING,
expressing the two capitals of the Khitan Dynasty in this region, the position of which will
be found indicated in No. IV. map of Polo's itineraries. (See Schott, Aelteste Nachrichten
von Mongolen und Tartaren, Berlin Acad. 1845, pp. 11-12.)

[Sikintinju is Kien chau "belonging to a town which was in Nayan's appanage, and is mentioned
in the history of his rebellion. There were two Kien-chow, one in the time of the Kin in the
modern aimak of Khorchin; the other during the Mongol Dynasty, on the upper part of the river
Ta-ling ho, in the limits of the modern aimak of Kharachin (Man chow yuen lew k'ao); the latter
depended on Kuang-ning (Yuen-shi). Mention is made of Kien-chow, in connection with the following
circumstance. When Nayan's rebellion broke out, the Court of Peking sent orders to the King
of Corea, requiring from him auxiliary troops; this circumstance is mentioned in the Corean
Annals, under the year 1288 (Kao li shi, ch. xxx. f. 11) in the following words:--'In the present
year, in the fourth month, orders were received from Peking to send five thousand men with
provisions to Kien-chow, which is 3000 li distant from the King's residence.' This number of
li cannot of course be taken literally; judging by the distances estimated at the present day,
it was about 2000 li from the Corean K'ai-ch'eng fu (then the Corean capital) to the Mongol
Kien-chow; and as much to the Kien-chow of the Kin (through Mukden and the pass of Fa- k'u
mun in the willow palisade). It is difficult to decide to which of these two cities of the
same name the troops were ordered to go, but at any rate, there are sufficient reasons to identify
Sikintinju of Marco Polo with Kien-chow." (Palladius, 33.)--H. C.]

We learn from Gaubil that the rebellion did not end with the capture of Nayan. In the summer
of 1288 several of the princes of Nayan's league, under Hatan (apparently the Abkan of Erdmann's
genealogies), the grandson of Chinghiz's brother Kajyun [Hachiun], threatened the provinces
north-east of the wall. Kúblái sent his grandson and designated heir, Teimur, against them,
accompanied by some of his best generals. After a two days' fight on the banks of the River
Kweilei, the rebels were completely beaten. The territories on the said River Kweilei, the
Tiro, or Torro, and the Liao, are mentioned both by Gaubil and De Mailla as among those which
had belonged to Nayan. As the Kweilei and Toro appear on our maps and also the better-known
Liao, we are thus enabled to determine with tolerable precision Nayan's country. (See Gaubil,
p. 209, and De Mailla, 431 seqq.)

["The rebellion of Nayan and Hatan is incompletely and contradictorily related in Chinese history.
The suppression of both these rebellions lasted four years. In 1287 Nayan marched from his
ordo with sixty thousand men through Eastern Mongolia. In the 5th moon (var. 6th) of the same
year Khubilai marched against him from Shangtu. The battle was fought in South-Eastern Mongolia,
and gained by Khubilai, who returned to Shangtu in the 8th month. Nayan fled to the south-east,
across the mountain range, along which a willow palisade now stands; but forces had been sent
beforehand from Shin-chow (modern Mukden) and Kuang-ning (probably to watch the pass), and
Nayan was made prisoner.

"Two months had not passed, when Hatan's rebellion broke out (so that it took place in the
same year 1287). It is mentioned under the year 1288, that Hatan was beaten, and that the whole
of Manchuria was pacified; but in 1290, it is again recorded that Hatan disturbed Southern
Manchuria, and that he was again defeated. It is to this time that the narratives in the biographies
of Liting, Yuesi Femur, and Mangwu ought to be referred. According to the first of these biographies,
Hatan, after his defeat by Liting on the river Kui lui (Kuilar?), fled, and perished. According
to the second biography, Hatan's dwelling (on the Amur River) was destroyed, and he disappeared.
According to the third, Mangwu and Naimatai pursued Hatan to the extreme north, up to the eastern
sea-coast (the mouth of the Amur). Hatan fled, but two of his wives and his son Lao-ti were
taken; the latter was executed, and this was the concluding act of the suppression of the rebellion
in Manchuria. We find, however, an important variante in the history of Corea; it is stated
there that in 1290, Hatan and his son Lao-ti were carrying fire and slaughter to Corea, and
devastated that country; they slew the inhabitants and fed on human flesh. The King of Corea
fled to the Kiang-hwa island. The Coreans were not able to withstand the invasion. The Mongols
sent to their aid in 1291, troops under the command of two generals, Seshekan (who was at that
time governor of Liao-tung) and Namantai (evidently the above-mentioned Naimatai). The Mongols
conjointly with the Coreans defeated the insurgents, who had penetrated into the very heart
of the country; their corpses covered a space 30 li in extent; Hatan and his son made their
way through the victorious army and fled, finding a refuge in the Niuchi (Djurdji) country,
from which Laotai made a later incursion into Corea. Such is the discrepancy between historians
in relating the same fact. The statement found in the Corean history seems to me more reliable
than the facts given by Chinese history." (Palladius, 35-37.)--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--This passage, and the extract from Ramusio's version attached to the following chapter,
contain the only allusions by Marco to Jews in China. John of Monte Corvino alludes to them,
and so does Marignolli, who speaks of having held disputations with them at Cambaluc; Ibn Batuta
also speaks of them at Khansa or Hangchau. Much has been written about the ancient settlement
of Jews at Kaifungfu, in Honan. One of the most interesting papers on the subject is in the
Chinese Repository, vol. xx. It gives the translation of a Chinese-Jewish Inscription, which
in some respects forms a singular parallel to the celebrated Christian Inscription of Si-ngan
fu, though it is of far more modern date (1511). It exhibits, as that inscription does, the
effect of Chinese temperament or language, in modifying or diluting doctrinal statements. Here
is a passage: "With respect to the Israelitish religion, we find on inquiry that its first
ancestor, Adam, came originally from India, and that during the (period of the) Chau State
the Sacred Writings were already in existence. The Sacred Writings, embodying Eternal Reason,
consist of 53 sections. The principles therein contained are very abstruse, and the Eternal
Reason therein revealed is very mysterious, being treated with the same veneration as Heaven.
The founder of the religion is Abraham, who is considered the first teacher of it. Then came
Moses, who established the Law, and handed down the Sacred Writings. After his time, during
the Han Dynasty (B.C. 206 to A.D. 221), this religion entered China. In (A.D.) 1164, a synagogue
was built at P'ien. In (A.D.) 1296, the old Temple was rebuilt, as a place in which the Sacred
Writings might be deposited with veneration."

[According to their oral tradition, the Jews came to China from Si Yih (Western Regions), probably
Persia, by Khorasan and Samarkand, during the first century of our era, in the reign of the
Emperor Ming-ti (A.D. 58-75) of the Han Dynasty. They were at times confounded with the followers
of religions of India, T'ien Chu kiao, and very often with the Mohammedans Hwui-Hwui or Hwui-tzu;
the common name of their religion was Tiao kin kiao, "Extract Sinew Religion." However, three
lapidary inscriptions, kept at Kaï-fung, give different dates for the arrival of the Jews in
China: one dated 1489 (2nd year Hung Che, Ming Dynasty) says that seventy Jewish families arrived
at P'ien liang (Kaï-fung) at the time of the Sung (A. D. 960-1278); one dated 1512 (7th year
Chêng Têh) says that the Jewish religion was introduced into China under the Han Dynasty (B.C.
206-A.D. 221), and the last one dated 1663 (2nd year K'ang-hi) says that this religion was
first preached in China under the Chau Dynasty (B.C. 1122-255); this will not bear discussion.

The synagogue, according to these inscriptions, was built in 1163, under the Sung Emperor Hiao;
under the Yuen, in 1279, the rabbi rebuilt the ancient temple known as Ts'ing Chen sse, probably
on the site of a ruined mosque; the synagogue was rebuilt in 1421 during the reign of Yung-lo;
it was destroyed by an inundation of the Hwang-ho in 1642, and the Jews began to rebuild it
once more in 1653.

The first knowledge Europeans had of a colony of Jews at K'aï-fung fu, in the Ho-nan province,
was obtained through the Jesuit missionaries at Peking, at the beginning of the 17th century;
the celebrated Matteo Ricci having received the visit of a young Jew, the Jesuits Aleni (1613),
Gozani (1704), Gaubil and Domenge who made in 1721 two plans of the synagogue, visited Kaï-fung
and brought back some documents. In 1850, a mission of enquiry was sent to that place by the
London Society for promoting Christianity among the Jews; the results of this mission were
published at Shang-hai, in 1851, by Bishop G. Smith of Hongkong; fac-similes of the Hebrew
manuscripts obtained at the synagogue of Kaï-fung were also printed at Shang-haï at the London
Missionary Society's Press, in the same year. The Jewish merchants of London sent in 1760 to
their brethren of Kaï-fung a letter written in Hebrew; a Jewish merchant of Vienna, J. L. Liebermann,
visited the Kaï-fung colony in 1867. At the time of the T'aï-P'ing rising, the rebels marched
against Kaï-fung in 1857, and with the rest of the population, the Jews were dispersed. (J.
Tobar, Insc. juives de Kaï-fong-fou, 1900; Henri Cordier, Les Juifs en Chine, and Fung and
Wagnall's Jewish Encyclopedia.) Palladius writes (p. 38), "The Jews are mentioned for the first
time in the Yuen shi (ch. xxxiii. p. 7), under the year 1329, on the occasion of the re-establishment
of the law for the collection of taxes from dissidents. Mention of them is made again under
the year 1354, ch. xliii. fol. 10, when on account of several insurrections in China, rich
Mahommetans and Jews were invited to the capital in order to join the army. In both cases they
are named Chu hu (Djuhud)."--H. C.]

The synagogue at Kaifungfu has recently been demolished for the sake of its materials, by the
survivors of the Jewish community themselves, who were too poor to repair it. The tablet that
once adorned its entrance, bearing in gilt characters the name ESZLOYIH (Israel), has been
appropriated by a mosque. The 300 or 400 survivors seem in danger of absorption into the Mahomedan
or heathen population. The last Rabbi and possessor of the sacred tongue died some thirty or
forty years ago, the worship has ceased, and their traditions have almost died away.

(Cathay, 225, 341, 497; Ch. Rep. XX. 436; Dr. Martin, in J. N. China Br. R. A. S. 1866, pp. 32-33.)

CHAPTER VI.

HOW THE GREAT KAAN WENT BACK TO THE CITY OF CAMBALUC.

And after the Great Kaan had defeated Nayan in the way you have heard, he went back to his
capital city of Cambaluc and abode there, taking his ease and making festivity. And the other
Tartar Lord called Caydu was greatly troubled when he heard of the defeat and death of Nayan,
and held himself in readiness for war; but he stood greatly in fear of being handled as Nayan
had been.[NOTE 1]

I told you that the Great Kaan never went on a campaign but once, and it was on this occasion;
in all other cases of need he sent his sons or his barons into the field. But this time he
would have none go in command but himself, for he regarded the presumptuous rebellion of Nayan
as far too serious and perilous an affair to be otherwise dealt with.

NOTE 1.--Here Ramusio has a long and curious addition. Kúblái, it says, remained at Cambaluc
till March, "in which our Easter occurs; and learning that this was one of our chief festivals,
he summoned all the Christians, and bade them bring with them the Book of the Four Gospels.
This he caused to be incensed many times with great ceremony, kissing it himself most devoutly,
and desiring all the barons and lords who were present to do the same. And he always acts in
this fashion at the chief Christian festivals, such as Easter and Christmas. And he does the
like at the chief feasts of the Saracens, Jews, and Idolaters. On being asked why, he said:
'There are Four Prophets worshipped and revered by all the world. The Christians say their
God is Jesus Christ; the Saracens, Mahommet; the Jews, Moses; the Idolaters, Sogomon Borcan
[Sakya-Muni Burkhan or Buddha], who was the first god among the idols; and I worship and pay
respect to all four, and pray that he among them who is greatest in heaven in very truth may
aid me.' But the Great Khan let it be seen well enough that he held the Christian Faith to
be the truest and best--for, as he says, it commands nothing that is not perfectly good and
holy. But he will not allow the Christians to carry the Cross before them, because on it was
scourged and put to death a person so great and exalted as Christ.

"Some one may say: 'Since he holds the Christian faith to be best, why does he not attach himself
to it, and become a Christian?' Well, this is the reason that he gave to Messer Nicolo and
Messer Maffeo, when he sent them as his envoys to the Pope, and when they sometimes took occasion
to speak to him about the faith of Christ. He said: 'How would you have me to become a Christian?
You see that the Christians of these parts are so ignorant that they achieve nothing and can
achieve nothing, whilst you see the Idolaters can do anything they please, insomuch that when
I sit at table the cups from the middle of the hall come to me full of wine or other liquor
without being touched by anybody, and I drink from them. They control storms, causing them
to pass in whatever direction they please, and do many other marvels; whilst, as you know,
their idols speak, and give them predictions on whatever subjects they choose. But if I were
to turn to the faith of Christ and become a Christian, then my barons and others who are not
converted would say: "What has moved you to be baptised and to take up the faith of Christ?
What powers or miracles have you witnessed on His part?" (You know the Idolaters here say that
their wonders are performed by the sanctity and power of their idols.) Well, I should not know
what answer to make; so they would only be confirmed in their errors, and the Idolaters, who
are adepts in such surprising arts, would easily compass my death. But now you shall go to
your Pope, and pray him on my part to send hither an hundred men skilled in your law, who shall
be capable of rebuking the practices of the Idolaters to their faces, and of telling them that
they too know how to do such things but will not, because they are done by the help of the
devil and other evil spirits, and shall so control the Idolaters that these shall have no power
to perform such things in their presence. When we shall witness this we will denounce the Idolaters
and their religion, and then I will receive baptism; and when I shall have been baptised, then
all my barons and chiefs shall be baptised also, and their followers shall do the like, and
thus in the end there will be more Christians here than exist in your part of the world!'

"And if the Pope, as was said in the beginning of this book, had sent men fit to preach our
religion, the Grand Kaan would have turned Christian; for it is an undoubted fact that he greatly
desired to do so."

In the simultaneous patronage of different religions, Kúblái followed the practice of his house.
Thus Rubruquis writes of his predecessor Mangku Kaan: "It is his custom, on such days as his
diviners tell him to be festivals, or any of the Nestorian priests declare to be holydays,
to hold a court. On these occasions the Christian priests enter first with their paraphernalia,
and pray for him, and bless his cup. They retire, and then come the Saracen priests and do
likewise; the priests of the Idolaters follow. He all the while believes in none of them, though
they all follow his court as flies follow honey. He bestows his gifts on all of them, each
party believes itself to be his favourite, and all prophesy smooth things to him." Abulfaragius
calls Kúblái "a just prince and a wise, who loved Christians and honoured physicians of learning,
whatsoever their nation."

There is a good deal in Kúblái that reminds us of the greatest prince of that other great Mongol
house, Akbar. And if we trusted the first impression of the passage just quoted from Ramusio,
we might suppose that the grandson of Chinghiz too had some of that real wistful regard towards
the Lord Jesus Christ, of which we seem to see traces in the grandson of Baber. But with Kúblái,
as with his predecessors, religion seems to have been only a political matter; and this aspect
of the thing will easily be recognised in a re-perusal of his conversation with Messer Nicolas
and Messer Maffeo. The Kaan must be obeyed; how man shall worship God is indifferent; this
was the constant policy of his house in the days of its greatness. Kúblái, as Koeppen observes,
the first of his line to raise himself above the natural and systematic barbarism of the Mongols,
probably saw in the promotion of Tibetan Buddhism, already spread to some extent among them,
the readiest means of civilising his countrymen. But he may have been quite sincere in saying
what is here ascribed to him in this sense, viz.: that if the Latin Church, with its superiority
of character and acquirement, had come to his aid as he had once requested, he would gladly
have used its missionaries as his civilising instruments instead of the Lamas and their trumpery.
(Rubr. 313; Assemani, III. pt. ii. 107; Koeppen, II. 89, 96.)

CHAPTER VII.

HOW THE KAAN REWARDED THE VALOUR OF HIS CAPTAINS.

So we will have done with this matter of Nayan, and go on with our account of the great state
of the Great Kaan.

We have already told you of his lineage and of his age; but now I must tell you what he did
after his return, in regard to those barons who had behaved well in the battle. Him who was
before captain of 100 he made captain of 1000; and him who was captain of 1000 men he made
to be captain of 10,000, advancing every man according to his deserts and to his previous rank.
Besides that, he also made them presents of fine silver plate and other rich appointments;
gave them Tablets of Authority of a higher degree than they held before; and bestowed upon
them fine jewels of gold and silver, and pearls and precious stones; insomuch that the amount
that fell to each of them was something astonishing. And yet 'twas not so much as they had
deserved; for never were men seen who did such feats of arms for the love and honour of their
Lord, as these had done on that day of the battle.[NOTE 1]

Now those Tablets of Authority, of which I have spoken, are ordered in this way. The officer
who is a captain of 100 hath a tablet of silver; the captain of 1000 hath a tablet of gold
or silver-gilt; the commander of 10,000 hath a tablet of gold, with a lion's head on it. And
I will tell you the weight of the different tablets, and what they denote. The tablets of the
captains of 100 and 1000 weigh each of them 120 saggi; and the tablet with the lion's head
engraven on it, which is that of the commander of 10,000, weighs 220 saggi. And on each of
the tablets is inscribed a device, which runs: "By the strength of the great God, and of the
great grace which He hath accorded to our Emperor, may the name of the Kaan be blessed; and
let all such as will not obey him be slain and be destroyed." And I will tell you besides that
all who hold these tablets likewise receive warrants in writing, declaring all their powers
and privileges.

I should mention too that an officer who holds the chief command of 100,000 men, or who is
general-in-chief of a great host, is entitled to a tablet that weighs 300 saggi. It has an
inscription thereon to the same purport that I have told you already, and below the inscription
there is the figure of a lion, and below the lion the sun and moon. They have warrants also
of their high rank, command, and power.[NOTE 2] Every one, moreover, who holds a tablet of
this exalted degree is entitled, whenever he goes abroad, to have a little golden canopy, such
as is called an umbrella, carried on a spear over his head in token of his high command. And
whenever he sits, he sits in a silver chair.[NOTE 3]

To certain very great lords also there is given a tablet with gerfalcons on it; this is only
to the very greatest of the Kaan's barons, and it confers on them his own full power and authority;
so that if one of those chiefs wishes to send a messenger any whither, he can seize the horses
of any man, be he even a king, and any other chattels at his pleasure. [NOTE 4]

NOTE 1.--So Sanang Setzen relates that Chinghiz, on returning from one of his great campaigns,
busied himself in reorganising his forces and bestowing rank and title, according to the deserts
of each, on his nine Orlok, or marshals, and all who had done good service. "He named commandants
over hundreds, over thousands, over ten thousands, over hundred thousands, and opened his treasury
to the multitude of the people" (p. 91).

NOTE 2.--We have several times already had mention of these tablets. (See Prologue, ch. viii.
and xviii.) The earliest European allusion to them is in Rubruquis: "And Mangu gave to the
Moghul (whom he was going to send to the King of France) a bull of his, that is to say, a golden
plate of a palm in breadth and half a cubit in length, on which his orders were inscribed.
Whosoever is the bearer of that may order what he pleases, and his order shall be executed
straightway."

These golden bulls of the Mongol Kaans appear to have been originally tokens of high favour
and honour, though afterwards they became more frequent and conventional. They are often spoken
of by the Persian historians of the Mongols under the name of Páizah, and sometimes Páizah
Sir-i-Sher, or "Lion's Head Paizah." Thus, in a firmán of Ghazan Khan, naming a viceroy to
his conquests in Syria, the Khan confers on the latter "the sword, the august standard, the
drum, and the Lion's Head Paizah." Most frequently the grant of this honour is coupled with
Yarlígh; "to such an one were granted Yarlígh and Páizah" the former word (which is still applied
in Turkey to the Sultan's rescripts) denoting the written patent which accompanies the grant
of the tablet, just as the sovereign's warrant accompanies the badge of a modern Order. Of
such written patents also Marco speaks in this passage, and as he uttered it, no doubt the
familiar words Yarlígh u Páizah were in his mind. The Armenian history of the Orpelians, relating
the visit of Prince Sempad, brother of King Hayton, to the court of Mangku Kaan, says: "They
gave him also a P'haiza of gold, i.e. a tablet whereon the name of God is written by the Great
Kaan himself; and this constitutes the greatest honour known among the Mongols. Farther, they
drew up for him a sort of patent, which the Mongols call Iarlekh," etc. The Latin version of
a grant by Uzbek Khan of Kipchak to the Venetian Andrea Zeno, in 1333,[1] ends with the words:
"Dedimus baisa et privilegium cum bullis rubeis," where the latter words no doubt represent
the Yarlígh al-tamghá, the warrant with the red seal or stamp,[2] as it may be seen upon the
letter of Arghun Khan. (See plate at ch. xvii. of Bk. IV.). So also Janibek, the son of Uzbek,
in 1344, confers privileges on the Venetians, "eisdem dando baissinum de auro"; and again Bardibeg,
son, murderer, and successor of Janibeg, in 1358, writes: "Avemo dado comandamento [i.e. Yarlíg]
cum le bolle rosse, et lo paysam."

Under the Persian branch, at least, of the house the degree of honour was indicated by the
number of lions' heads upon the plate, which varied from 1 to 5. The Lion and Sun, a symbol
which survives, or has been revived, in the modern Persian decoration so called, formed the
emblem of the Sun in Leo, i.e. in highest power. It had already been used on the coins of the
Seljukian sovereigns of Persia and Iconium; it appears on coins of the Mongol Ilkhans Ghazan,
Oljaitu, and Abusaid, and it is also found on some of those of Mahomed Uzbek Khan of Kipchak.

Hammer gives regulations of Ghazan Khan's on the subject of the Paizah, from which it is seen
that the latter were of different kinds as well as degrees. Some were held by great governors
and officers of state, and these were cautioned against letting the Paizah out of their own
keeping; others were for officers of inferior order; and, again, "for persons travelling on
state commissions with post-horses, particular paizah (which Hammer says were of brass) are
appointed, on which their names are inscribed." These last would seem therefore to be merely
such permissions to travel by the Government post-horses as are still required in Russia, perhaps
in lineal derivation from Mongol practice. The terms of Ghazan's decree and other contemporary
notices show that great abuses were practised with the Paizah, as an authority for living at
free quarters and making other arbitrary exactions.

The word Paizah is said to be Chinese, Pai-tseu, "a tablet." A trace of the name and the thing
still survives in Mongolia. The horse-Bai is the name applied to a certain ornament on the
horse caparison, which gives the rider a title to be furnished with horses and provisions on
a journey.

Where I have used the Venetian term saggio, the French texts have here and elsewhere saics
and saies, and sometimes pois. Saic points to saiga, which, according to Dupré de St. Maur,
is in the Salic laws the equivalent of a denier or the twelfth part of a sol. Saggio is possibly
the same word, or rather may have been confounded with it, but the saggio was a recognised
Venetian weight equal to 1/6 of an ounce. We shall see hereafter that Polo appears to use it
to indicate the miskál, a weight which may be taken at 74 grains Troy. On that supposition
the smallest tablet specified in the text would weigh 18-1/2 ozs. Troy.

I do not know if any gold Paizah has been discovered, but several of silver have been found
in the Russian dominions; one near the Dnieper, and two in Eastern Siberia. The first of our
plates represents one of these, which was found in the Minusinsk circle of the Government of
Yenisei in 1846, and is now in the Asiatic Museum of the Academy of St. Petersburg, For the
sake of better illustration of our text, I have taken the liberty to represent the tablet as
of gold, instead of silver with only the inscription gilt. The moulded ring inserted in the
orifice, to suspend the plate by, is of iron. On the reverse side the ring bears some Chinese
characters engraved, which are interpreted as meaning "Publication No. 42." The inscription
on the plate itself is in the Mongol language and Baspa character (supra, Prologue, note 1,
ch. xv.), and its purport is a remarkable testimony to the exactness of Marco's account, and
almost a proof of his knowledge of the language and character in which the inscriptions were
engraved. It runs, according to Schmidt's version: "By the strength of the eternal heaven!
May the name of the Khagan be holy! Who pays him not reverence is to be slain, and must die!"
The inscriptions on the other plates discovered were essentially similar in meaning. Our second
plate shows one of them with the inscription in the Uighúr character.

The superficial dimensions of the Yenisei tablet, as taken from Schmidt's full-size drawing,
are 12.2 in. by 3.65 in. The weight is not given.

In the French texts nothing is said of the size of the tablets. But Ramusio's copy in the Prologue,
where the tables given by Kiacatu are mentioned (supra, p. 35), says that they were a cubit
in length and 5 fingers in breadth, and weighed 3 to 4 marks each, i.e. 24 to 32 ounces. XVII.
357; Rubruq. 312; Golden Horde, 219-220, 521; Ilch. II. 166 seqq., 355-356; D'Ohsson, III.
412-413; Q. R. 177-180; Ham. Wassáf, 154, 176; Makrizi, IV. 158; St. Martin, Mém. sur l'Arménie,
II. 137, 169; M. Mas Latrie in Bibl. de l'Éc. des Chartes, IV. 585 seqq.; J. As. sér. V. tom.
xvii. 536 seqq.; Schmidt, über eine Mongol. Quadratinschrift, etc., Acad. St. P., 1847; Russian
paper by Grigorieff on same subject, 1846.)

["The History tells us (Liao Shih, Bk. LVII. f. 2) that the official silver tablets p'ai tzu
of the period were 600 in number, about a foot in length, and that they were engraved with
an inscription like the above ['Our imperial order for post horses. Urgent.'] in national characters
(kuo tzu), and that when there was important state business the Emperor personally handed the
tablet to the envoy, which entitled him to demand horses at the post stations, and to be treated
as if he were the Emperor himself travelling. When the tablet was marked 'Urgent,' he had the
right to take private horses, and was required to ride, night and day, 700 li in twenty-four
hours. On his return he had to give back the tablet to the Emperor, who handed it to the prince
who had the custody of the state tablets and seals." (Dr. S. W. Bushell, Actes XI. Cong. Int.
Orient., Paris, p. 17.)

"The Kin, in the thirteenth century, used badges of office made of silver. They were rectangular,
bore the imperial seal, and an inscription indicative of the duty of the bearer. (Chavannes,
Voyageurs chez les Khitans, 102.) The Nü-chên at an earlier date used wooden pai-tzu tied to
each horseman and horse, to distinguish them by. (Ma Tuan-lin, Bk. 327, 11.)" (Rockhill, Rubruck,
p. 181, note.)

"Tiger's tablets--Sinice Hu fu, and p'ai tsze in the common language. The Mongols had them
of several kinds, which differed by the metal, of which they were made, as well as by the number
of pearls (one, two, or three in number), which were incrusted in the upper part of the tablet.
Falcon's tablets with the figure of a falcon were round, and used to be given only to special
couriers and envoys of the Khan. [Yuen shi lui pien and Yuen ch'ao tien chang.] The use of
the Hu-fu was adopted by the Mongols probably from the Kin." (Palladius, l.c. p. 39.)

Rubruquis (Rockhill's ed. pp. 153-154) says:--"And whenever the principal envoy [of Longa]
came to court he carried a highly-polished tablet of ivory about a cubit long and half a palm
wide. Every time he spoke to the chan or some great personage, he always looked at that tablet
as if he found there what he had to say, nor did he look to the right or the left, nor in the
face of him with whom he was talking. Likewise, when coming into the presence of the Lord,
and when leaving it, he never looked at anything but his tablet." Mr. Rockhill observes: "These
tablets are called hu in Chinese, and were used in China and Korea; in the latter country down
to quite recent times. They were made of jade, ivory, bamboo, etc., according to the rank of
the owner, and were about three feet long. The hu was originally used to make memoranda on
of the business to be submitted by the bearer to the Emperor or to write the answers to questions
he had had submitted to them. Odoric also refers to 'the tablets of white ivory which the Emperor's
barons held in their hands as they stood silent before him.'"

(Cf. the golden tablets which were of various classes with a tiger for image and pearls for
ornaments, Devéria, Epigraphie, p. 15 et seq.) --H. C.]

NOTE 3.--Umbrella. The phrase in Pauthier's text is "Palieque que on dit ombrel." The Latin
text of the Soc. de Géographie has "unum pallium de auro," which I have adopted as probably
correct, looking to Burma, where the old etiquettes as to umbrellas are in full force. These
etiquettes were probably in both countries of old Hindu origin. Pallium, according to Muratori,
was applied in the Middle Ages to a kind of square umbrella, by which is probably meant rather
a canopy on four staves, which was sometimes assigned by authority as an honourable privilege.

But the genuine umbrella would seem to have been used also, for Polo's contemporary, Martino
da Canale, says that, when the Doge goes forth of his palace, "si vait apres lui un damoiseau
qui porte une umbrele de dras à or sur son chief," which umbrella had been given by "Monseigneur
l'Apostoille." There is a picture by Girolamo Gambarota, in the Sala del Gran Consiglio, at
Venice, which represents the investiture of the Doge with the umbrella by Pope Alexander III.,
and Frederick Barbarossa (concerning which see Sanuto Junior, in Muratori, XXII. 512).

The word Parasol also occurs in the Petrarchian vocabulary, (14th century) as the equivalent
of saioual (Pers. sáyában or sáiwán, an umbrella). Carpini notices that umbrellas (solinum
vel tentoriolum in hastâ) were carried over the Tartar nobles and their wives, even on horseback;
and a splendid one, covered with jewels, was one of the presents made to Kuyuk Kaan on his
enthronement.

With respect to the honorary character attaching to umbrellas in China, I may notice that recently
an English resident of Ningpo, on his departure for Europe, was presented by the Chinese citizens,
as a token of honour, with a pair of Wan min sàn, umbrellas of enormous size.

The umbrella must have gone through some curious vicissitudes; for at one time we find it familiar,
at a later date apparently unknown, and then reintroduced as some strange novelty. Arrian speaks
of the [Greek: skiádia], or umbrellas, as used by all Indians of any consideration; but the
thing of which he spoke was familiar to the use of Greek and Roman ladies, and many examples
of it, borne by slaves behind their mistresses, are found on ancient vase-paintings. Athenaeus
quotes from Anacreon the description of a "beggar on horseback" who

                     "like a woman bears
  An ivory parasol over his delicate head."

An Indian prince, in a Sanskrit inscription of the 9th century, boasts of having wrested from
the King of Márwár the two umbrellas pleasing to Parvati, and white as the summer moonbeams.
Prithi Ráj, the last Hindu king of Delhi, is depicted by the poet Chand as shaded by a white
umbrella on a golden staff. An unmistakable umbrella, copied from a Saxon MS. in the Harleian
collection, is engraved in Wright's History of Domestic Manners, p. 75. The fact that the gold
umbrella is one of the paraphernalia of high church dignitaries in Italy seems to presume acquaintance
with the thing from a remote period. A decorated umbrella also accompanies the host when sent
out to the sick, at least where I write, in Palermo. Ibn Batuta says that in his time all the
people of Constantinople, civil and military, great and small, carried great umbrellas over
their heads, summer and winter. Ducange quotes, from a MS. of the Paris Library, the Byzantine
court regulations about umbrellas, which are of the genuine Pan-Asiatic spirit;--[Greek: skiádia
chrysokókkina] extend from the Hypersebastus to the grand Stratopedarchus, and so on; exactly
as used to be the case, with different titles, in Java. And yet it is curious that John Marignolli,
Ibn Batuta's contemporary in the middle of the 14th century, and Barbosa in the 16th century,
are alike at pains to describe the umbrella as some strange object. And in our own country
it is commonly stated that the umbrella was first used in the last century, and that Jonas
Hanway (died 1786) was one of the first persons who made a practice of carrying one. The word
umbrello is, however, in Minsheu's dictionary. [See Hobson-Jobson, s.v. Umbrella.--H. C.]

(Murat. Dissert. II. 229; Archiv. Storic. Ital. VIII. 274, 560; Klapr. Mém. III.; Carp. 759;
N. and Q., C. and J. II. 180; Arrian, Indica, XVI.; Smith's Dict., G. and R. Ant., s. v. umbraculum;
J. R. A. S. v. 351; Rás Mála, I. 221; I. B. II. 440; Cathay, 381; Ramus. I. f. 301.)

Alexander, according to Athenaeus, feasted his captains to the number of 6000, and made them
all sit upon silver chairs. The same author relates that the King of Persia, among other rich
presents, bestowed upon Entimus the Gortynian, who went up to the king in imitation of Themistocles,
a silver chair and a gilt umbrella. (Bk. I. Epit. ch. 31, and II. 31.)

The silver chair has come down to our own day in India, and is much affected by native princes.

NOTE 4.--I have not been able to find any allusion, except in our author, to tablets, with
gerfalcons (shonkár). The shonkár appears, however, according to Erdmann, on certain coins
of the Golden Horde, struck at Sarai.

There is a passage from Wassáf used by Hammer, in whose words it runs that the Sayad Imámuddín,
appointed (A.D. 683) governor of Shiraz by Arghun Khan, "was invested with both the Mongol
symbols of delegated sovereignty, the Golden Lion's Head, and the golden Cat's Head." It would
certainly have been more satisfactory to find "Gerfalcon's Head" in lieu of the latter; but
it is probable that the same object is meant. The cut below exhibits the conventional effigy
of a gerfalcon as sculptured over one of the gates of Iconium, Polo's Conia. The head might
easily pass for a conventional representation of a cat's head, and is indeed strikingly like
the grotesque representation that bears that name in mediaeval architecture. (Erdmann, Numi
Asiatici, I. 339; Ilch. I. 370.)

[1] "In anno Simiae, octavâ lunâ, die quarto exeunte, juxta fluvium Cobam
    (the Kuban), apud Ripam Rubeam existentes scripsimus." The original
    was in linguâ Persaycá.

[2] See Golden Horde, p. 218.

CHAPTER VIII.

CONCERNING THE PERSON OF THE GREAT KAAN.

The personal appearance of the Great Kaan, Lord of Lords, whose name is Cublay, is such as
I shall now tell you. He is of a good stature, neither tall nor short, but of a middle height.
He has a becoming amount of flesh, and is very shapely in all his limbs. His complexion is
white and red, the eyes black and fine,[NOTE 1] the nose well formed and well set on. He has
four wives, whom he retains permanently as his legitimate consorts; and the eldest of his sons
by those four wives ought by rights to be emperor;--I mean when his father dies. Those four
ladies are called empresses, but each is distinguished also by her proper name. And each of
them has a special court of her own, very grand and ample; no one of them having fewer than
300 fair and charming damsels. They have also many pages and eunuchs, and a number of other
attendants of both sexes; so that each of these ladies has not less than 10,000 persons attached
to her court.[NOTE 2]

When the Emperor desires the society of one of these four consorts, he will sometimes send
for the lady to his apartment and sometimes visit her at her own. He has also a great number
of concubines, and I will tell you how he obtains them.

You must know that there is a tribe of Tartars called UNGRAT, who are noted for their beauty.
Now every year an hundred of the most beautiful maidens of this tribe are sent to the Great
Kaan, who commits them to the charge of certain elderly ladies dwelling in his palace. And
these old ladies make the girls sleep with them, in order to ascertain if they have sweet breath
[and do not snore], and are sound in all their limbs. Then such of them as are of approved
beauty, and are good and sound in all respects, are appointed to attend on the Emperor by turns.
Thus six of these damsels take their turn for three days and nights, and wait on him when he
is in his chamber and when he is in his bed, to serve him in any way, and to be entirely at
his orders. At the end of the three days and nights they are relieved by other six. And so
throughout the year, there are reliefs of maidens by six and six, changing every three days
and nights.[NOTE 3]

NOTE 1.--We are left in some doubt as to the colour of Kúblái's eyes, for some of the MSS.
read vairs and voirs, and others noirs. The former is a very common epithet for eyes in the
mediaeval romances. And in the ballad on the death of St. Lewis, we are told of his son Tristram:--

  "Droiz fu comme un rosel, iex vairs comme faucon,
  Dès le tens Moysel ne nasqui sa façon."

The word has generally been interpreted bluish-grey, but in the passage just quoted, Fr.-Michel
explains it by brillans. However, the evidence for noirs here seems strongest. Rashiduddin
says that when Kúblái was born Chinghiz expressed surprise at the child's being so brown, as
its father and all his other sons were fair. Indeed, we are told that the descendants of Yesugai
(the father of Chinghiz) were in general distinguished by blue eyes and reddish hair. (Michel's
Joinville, p. 324; D'Ohsson, II. 475; Erdmann, 252.)

NOTE 2.--According to Hammer's authority (Rashid?) Kúblái had seven wives; Gaubil's Chinese
sources assign him five, with the title of empress (Hwang-heu). Of these the best beloved was
the beautiful Jamúi Khátún (Lady or Empress Jamúi, illustrating what the text says of the manner
of styling these ladies), who bore him four sons and five daughters. Rashiduddin adds that
she was called Kún Kú, or the great consort, evidently the term Hwang-heu. (Gen. Tables in
Hammer's Ilkhans; Gatibil, 223; Erdmann, 200.)

["Kúblái's four wives, i.e. the empresses of the first, second, third, and fourth ordos. Ordo
is, properly speaking, a separate palace of the Khan, under the management of one of his wives.
Chinese authors translate therefore the word ordo by 'harem.' The four Ordo established by
Chingis Khan were destined for the empresses, who were chosen out of four different nomad tribes.
During the reign of the first four Khans, who lived in Mongolia, the four ordo were considerably
distant one from another, and the Khans visited them in different seasons of the year; they
existed nominally as long as China remained under Mongol domination. The custom of choosing
the empress out of certain tribes, was in the course of time set aside by the Khans. The empress,
wife of the last Mongol Khan in China, was a Corean princess by birth; and she contributed
in a great measure to the downfall of the Mongol Dynasty." (Palladius, 40.)

I do not believe that Rashiduddin's Kún Kú is the term Hwang-keu; it is the term Kiun Chu,
King or Queen, a sovereign.--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--Ungrat, the reading of the Crusca, seems to be that to which the others point, and
I doubt not that it represents the great Mongol tribe of KUNGURAT, which gave more wives than
any other to the princes of the house of Chinghiz; a conclusion in which I find I have been
anticipated by De Mailla or his editor (IX. 426). To this tribe (which, according to Vámbéry,
took its name from (Turki) Kongur-At, "Chestnut Horse") belonged Burteh Fujin, the favourite
wife of Chinghiz himself, and mother of his four heirs; to the same tribe belonged the two
wives of Chagatai, two of Hulaku's seven wives, one of Mangku Kaan's, two at least of Kúblái's
including the beloved Jamúi Khátún, one at least of Abaka's, two of Ahmed Tigudar's, two of
Arghun's, and two of Ghazan's.

The seat of the Kungurats was near the Great Wall. Their name is still applied to one of the
tribes of the Uzbeks of Western Turkestan, whose body appears to have been made up of fractions
of many of the Turk and Mongol tribes. Kungurat is also the name of a town of Khiva, near the
Sea of Aral, perhaps borrowed from the Uzbek clan.

The conversion of Kungurat into Ungrat is due, I suppose, to that Mongol tendency to soften
gutturals which has been before noticed. (Erdm. 199-200; Hammer, passim; Burnes, III. 143, 225.)

The Ramusian version adds here these curious and apparently genuine particulars:--

"The Great Kaan sends his commissioners to the Province to select four or five hundred, or
whatever number may be ordered, of the most beautiful young women, according to the scale of
beauty enjoined upon them. And they set a value upon the comparative beauty of the damsels
in this way. The commissioners on arriving assemble all the girls of the province, in presence
of appraisers appointed for the purpose. These carefully survey the points of each girl in
succession, as (for example) her hair, her complexion, eyebrows, mouth, lips, and the proportion
of all her limbs. They will then set down some as estimated at 16 carats, some at 17, 18, 20,
or more or less, according to the sum of the beauties or defects of each. And whatever standard
the Great Kaan may have fixed for those that are to be brought to him, whether it be 20 carats
or 21, the commissioners select the required number from those who have attained that standard,
and bring them to him. And when they reach his presence he has them appraised anew by other
parties, and has a selection made of 30 or 40 of those, who then get the highest valuation."

Marsden and Murray miss the meaning of this curious statement in a surprising manner, supposing
the carat to represent some absolute value, 4 grains of gold according to the former, whence
the damsel of 20 carats was estimated at 13s. 4d.! This is sad nonsense; but Marsden would
not have made the mistake had he not been fortunate enough to live before the introduction
of Competitive Examinations. This Kungurat business was in fact a competitive examination in
beauty; total marks attainable 24; no candidate to pass who did not get 20 or 21. Carat expresses
n ÷ 24, not any absolute value.

Apart from the mode of valuation, it appears that a like system of selection was continued
by the Ming, and that some such selection from the daughters of the Manchu nobles has been
maintained till recent times. Herodotus tells that the like custom prevailed among the Adyrmachidae,
the Libyan tribe next Egypt. Old Eden too relates it of the "Princes of Moscovia." (Middle
Km. I. 318; Herod. IV. 168, Rawl.; Notes on Russia, Hak. Soc. II. 253.)

CHAPTER IX.

CONCERNING THE GREAT KAAN'S SONS.

The Emperor hath, by those four wives of his, twenty-two male children; the eldest of whom
was called CHINKIN for the love of the good Chinghis Kaan, the first Lord of the Tartars. And
this Chinkin, as the Eldest Son of the Kaan, was to have reigned after his father's death;
but, as it came to pass, he died. He left a son behind him, however, whose name is TEMUR, and
he is to be the Great Kaan and Emperor after the death of his Grandfather, as is but right;
he being the child of the Great Kaan's eldest son. And this Temur is an able and brave man,
as he hath already proven on many occasions.[NOTE 1]

The Great Kaan hath also twenty-five other sons by his concubines; and these are good and valiant
soldiers, and each of them is a great chief. I tell you moreover that of his children by his
four lawful wives there are seven who are kings of vast realms or provinces, and govern them
well; being all able and gallant men, as might be expected. For the Great Kaan their sire is,
I tell you, the wisest and most accomplished man, the greatest Captain, the best to govern
men and rule an Empire, as well as the most valiant, that ever has existed among all the Tribes
of Tartars.[NOTE 2]

NOTE 1.--Kúblái had a son older than CHIMKIN or CHINGKIM, to whom Hammer's Genealogical Table
gives the name of Jurji, and attributes a son called Ananda. The Chinese authorities of Gaubil
and Pauthier call him Turchi or Torchi, i.e. Dorjé, "Noble Stone," the Tibetan name of a sacred
Buddhist emblem in the form of a dumb-bell, representing the Vajra or Thunderbolt. Probably
Dorjé died early, as in the passage we shall quote from Wassáf also Chingkim is styled the
Eldest Son: Marco is probably wrong in connecting the name of the latter with that of Chinghiz.
Schmidt says that he does not know what Chingkim means.

[Mr. Parker says that Chen kim was the third son of Kúblái (China Review, xxiv. p. 94.) Teimur,
son of Chen kim, wore the temple name (miao-hao) of Ch'êng Tsung and the title of reign (nien-hao)
of Yuen Chêng and Ta Téh.--H. C.]

Chingkim died in the 12th moon of 1284-1285, aged 43. He had received a Chinese education,
and the Chinese Annals ascribe to him all the virtues which so often pertain in history to
heirs apparent who have not reigned.

"When Kúblái approached his 70th year," says Wassáf, "he desired to raise his eldest son Chimkin
to the position of his representative and declared successor, during his own lifetime; so he
took counsel with the chiefs, in view to giving the Prince a share of his authority and a place
on the Imperial Throne. The chiefs, who are the Pillars of Majesty and Props of the Empire,
represented that His Majesty's proposal to invest his Son, during his own lifetime, with Imperial
authority, was not in accordance with the precedents and Institutes (Yasa) of the World-conquering
Padshah Chinghiz Khan; but still they would consent to execute a solemn document, securing
the Kaanship to Chimkin, and pledging themselves to lifelong obedience and allegiance to him.
It was, however, the Divine Fiat that the intended successor should predecease him who bestowed
the nomination.... The dignitaries of the Empire then united their voices in favour of TEIMUR,
the son of Chimkin."

Teimur, according to the same authority, was the third son of Chimkin; but the eldest, Kambala,
squinted; the second, Tarmah (properly Tarmabala for Dharmaphala, a Buddhist Sanskrit name)
was rickety in constitution; and on the death of the old Kaan (1294) Teimur was unanimously
named to the Throne, after some opposition from Kambala, which was put down by the decided
bearing of the great soldier Bayan. (Schmidt, p. 399; De Mailla, IX. 424; Gaubil, 203; Wassáf, 46.)

[The Rev. W. S. Ament (Marco Polo in Cambaluc, p. 106), makes the following remarks regarding
this young prince (Chimkin): "The historians give good reasons for their regard for Chen Chin.
He had from early years exhibited great promise and had shown great proficiency in the military
art, in government, history, mathematics, and the Chinese classics. He was well acquainted
with the condition and numbers of the inhabitants of Mongolia and China, and with the topography
and commerce of the Empire (Howorth). He was much beloved by all, except by some of his father's
own ministers, whose lives were anything but exemplary. That Kúblái had full confidence in
his son is shown by the fact that he put the collecting of taxes in his hands. The native historians
represent him as economical in the use of money and wise in the choice of companions. He carefully
watched the officers in his charge, and would tolerate no extortion of the people. After droughts,
famines or floods, he would enquire into the condition of the people and liberally supply their
needs, thus starting them in life again. Polo ascribes all these virtues to the Khan himself.
Doubtless he possessed them in greater or less degree, but father and son were one in all these
benevolent enterprises."--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--The Chinese Annals, according to Pauthier and Gaubil, give only ten sons to Kúblái,
at least by his legitimate wives; Hammer's Table gives twelve. It is very probable that xxii.
was an early clerical error in the texts of Polo for xii. Dodeci indeed occurs in one MS. (No.
37 of our Appendix F), though not one of much weight.

Of these legitimate sons Polo mentions, in different parts of his work, five by name. The following
is the list from Hammer and D'Ohsson, with the Chinese forms from Pauthier in parentheses.
The seven whose names are in capitals had the title of Wang or "King" of particular territories,
as M. Pauthier has shown from the Chinese Annals, thus confirming Marco's accuracy on that point.

I. Jurji or Dorjé (Torchi). II. CHIMKIN or CHINGKIM (Yu Tsung, King of Yen, i.e. Old Peking).
III. MANGALAI (Mankola, "King of the Pacified West"), mentioned by Polo (infra, ch. xli.) as
King of Kenjanfu or Shensi. IV. NUMUGAN (Numukan, "Pacifying King of the North"), mentioned
by Polo (Bk. IV. ch. ii.) as with King George joint leader of the Kaan's army against Kaidu.
V. Kuridai (not in Chinese List). VI. HUKAJI (Hukochi, "King of Yunnan"), mentioned by Polo
(infra, ch. xlix.) as King of Carajan. VII. AGHRUKJI or UKURUJI (Gaoluchi, "King of Siping"
or Tibet). VIII. Abaji (Gaiyachi?). IX. KUKJU or GEUKJU (Khokhochu, "King of Ning" or Tangut).
X. Kutuktemur (Hutulu Temurh). XI. TUKAN (Thohoan, "King of Chinnan"). His command lay on the
Tungking frontier, where he came to great grief in 1288, in consequence of which he was disgraced.
(See Cathay, p. 272.) XII. Temkan (not in Chinese List). Gaubil's Chinese List omits Hutulu
Temurh, and introduces a prince called Gantanpouhoa as 4th son.

M. Pauthier lays great stress on Polo's intimate knowledge of the Imperial affairs (p. 263)
because he knew the name of the Hereditary Prince to be Teimur; this being, he says, the private
name which could not be known until after the owner's death, except by those in the most confidential
intimacy. The public only then discovered that, like the Irishman's dog, his real name was
Turk, though he had always been called Toby! But M. Pauthier's learning has misled him. At
least the secret must have been very badly kept, for it was known in Teimur's lifetime not
only to Marco, but to Rashiduddin in Persia, and to Hayton in Armenia; to say nothing of the
circumstance that the name Temur Khaghan is also used during that Emperor's life by Oljaitu
Khan of Persia in writing to the King of France a letter which M. Pauthier himself republished
and commented upon. (See his book, p. 780.)

CHAPTER X.

CONCERNING THE PALACE OF THE GREAT KAAN.

You must know that for three months of the year, to wit December, January, and February, the
Great Kaan resides in the capital city of Cathay, which is called CAMBALUC, [and which is at
the north-eastern extremity of the country]. In that city stands his great Palace, and now
I will tell you what it is like.

It is enclosed all round by a great wall forming a square, each side of which is a mile in
length; that is to say, the whole compass thereof is four miles. This you may depend on; it
is also very thick, and a good ten paces in height, whitewashed and loop-holed all round.[NOTE
1] At each angle of the wall there is a very fine and rich palace in which the war-harness
of the Emperor is kept, such as bows and quivers,[NOTE 2] saddles and bridles, and bowstrings,
and everything needful for an army. Also midway between every two of these Corner Palaces there
is another of the like; so that taking the whole compass of the enclosure you find eight vast
Palaces stored with the Great Lord's harness of war.[NOTE 3] And you must understand that each
Palace is assigned to only one kind of article; thus one is stored with bows, a second with
saddles, a third with bridles, and so on in succession right round.[NOTE 4]

The great wall has five gates on its southern face, the middle one being the great gate which
is never opened on any occasion except when the Great Kaan himself goes forth or enters. Close
on either side of this great gate is a smaller one by which all other people pass; and then
towards each angle is another great gate, also open to people in general; so that on that side
there are five gates in all.[NOTE 5]

Inside of this wall there is a second, enclosing a space that is somewhat greater in length
than in breadth. This enclosure also has eight palaces corresponding to those of the outer
wall, and stored like them with the Lord's harness of war. This wall also hath five gates on
the southern face, corresponding to those in the outer wall, and hath one gate on each of the
other faces, as the outer wall hath also. In the middle of the second enclosure is the Lord's
Great Palace, and I will tell you what it is like.[NOTE 6]

You must know that it is the greatest Palace that ever was. [Towards the north it is in contact
with the outer wall, whilst towards the south there is a vacant space which the Barons and
the soldiers are constantly traversing.[NOTE 7] The Palace itself] hath no upper story, but
is all on the ground floor, only the basement is raised some ten palms above the surrounding
soil [and this elevation is retained by a wall of marble raised to the level of the pavement,
two paces in width and projecting beyond the base of the Palace so as to form a kind of terrace-walk,
by which people can pass round the building, and which is exposed to view, whilst on the outer
edge of the wall there is a very fine pillared balustrade; and up to this the people are allowed
to come]. The roof is very lofty, and the walls of the Palace are all covered with gold and
silver. They are also adorned with representations of dragons [sculptured and gilt], beasts
and birds, knights and idols, and sundry other subjects. And on the ceiling too you see nothing
but gold and silver and painting. [On each of the four sides there is a great marble staircase
leading to the top of the marble wall, and forming the approach to the Palace.] [NOTE 8]

The Hall of the Palace is so large that it could easily dine 6000 people; and it is quite a
marvel to see how many rooms there are besides. The building is altogether so vast, so rich,
and so beautiful, that no man on earth could design anything superior to it. The outside of
the roof also is all coloured with vermilion and yellow and green and blue and other hues,
which are fixed with a varnish so fine and exquisite that they shine like crystal, and lend
a resplendent lustre to the Palace as seen for a great way round.[NOTE 9] This roof is made
too with such strength and solidity that it is fit to last for ever.

[On the interior side of the Palace are large buildings with halls and chambers, where the
Emperor's private property is placed, such as his treasures of gold, silver, gems, pearls,
and gold plate, and in which reside the ladies and concubines. There he occupies himself at
his own convenience, and no one else has access.]

Between the two walls of the enclosure which I have described, there are fine parks and beautiful
trees bearing a variety of fruits. There are beasts also of sundry kinds, such as white stags
and fallow deer, gazelles and roebucks, and fine squirrels of various sorts, with numbers also
of the animal that gives the musk, and all manner of other beautiful creatures,[NOTE 10] insomuch
that the whole place is full of them, and no spot remains void except where there is traffic
of people going and coming. [The parks are covered with abundant grass; and the roads through
them being all paved and raised two cubits above the surface, they never become muddy, nor
does the rain lodge on them, but flows off into the meadows, quickening the soil and producing
that abundance of herbage.]

From that corner of the enclosure which is towards the north-west there extends a fine Lake,
containing foison of fish of different kinds which the Emperor hath caused to be put in there,
so that whenever he desires any he can have them at his pleasure. A river enters this lake
and issues from it, but there is a grating of iron or brass put up so that the fish cannot
escape in that way.[NOTE 11]

Moreover on the north side of the Palace, about a bow-shot off, there is a hill which has been
made by art [from the earth dug out of the lake]; it is a good hundred paces in height and
a mile in compass. This hill is entirely covered with trees that never lose their leaves, but
remain ever green. And I assure you that wherever a beautiful tree may exist, and the Emperor
gets news of it, he sends for it and has it transported bodily with all its roots and the earth
attached to them, and planted on that hill of his. No matter how big the tree may be, he gets
it carried by his elephants; and in this way he has got together the most beautiful collection
of trees in all the world. And he has also caused the whole hill to be covered with the ore
of azure,[NOTE 12] which is very green. And thus not only are the trees all green, but the
hill itself is all green likewise; and there is nothing to be seen on it that is not green;
and hence it is called the GREEN MOUNT; and in good sooth 'tis named well.[NOTE 13]

On the top of the hill again there is a fine big palace which is all green inside and out;
and thus the hill, and the trees, and the palace form together a charming spectacle; and it
is marvellous to see their uniformity of colour! Everybody who sees them is delighted. And
the Great Kaan had caused this beautiful prospect to be formed for the comfort and solace and
delectation of his heart.

You must know that beside the Palace (that we have been describing), i.e. the Great Palace,
the Emperor has caused another to be built just like his own in every respect, and this he
hath done for his son when he shall reign and be Emperor after him.[NOTE 14] Hence it is made
just in the same fashion and of the same size, so that everything can be carried on in the
same manner after his own death. [It stands on the other side of the lake from the Great Kaan's
Palace, and there is a bridge crossing the water from one to the other.][NOTE 15] The Prince
in question holds now a Seal of Empire, but not with such complete authority as the Great Kaan,
who remains supreme as long as he lives.

Now I am going to tell you of the chief city of Cathay, in which these Palaces stand; and why
it was built, and how.

NOTE 1.--[According to the Ch'ue keng lu, translated by Bretschneider, 25, "the wall surrounding
the palace ... is constructed of bricks, and is 35 ch'i in height. The construction was begun
in A.D. 1271, on the 17th of the 8th month, between three and five o'clock in the afternoon,
and finished next year on the 15th of the 3rd month."--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--Tarcasci (G. T.) This word is worthy of note as the proper form of what has become
in modern French carquois. The former is a transcript of the Persian Tarkash; the latter appears
to be merely a corruption of it, arising perhaps clerically from the constant confusion of
c and t in MSS. (See Defrémery, quoted by Pauthier, in loco.) [Old French tarquais (13th century),
Hatzfeldt and Darmesteter's Dict. gives; "Coivres orent ceinz et tarchais." (WACE, Rou, III.,
7698; 12th century).]

NOTE 3.--["It seems to me [Dr. Bretschneider] that Polo took the towers, mentioned by the Chinese
author, in the angles of the galleries and of the Kung-ch'eng for palaces; for further on he
states, that 'over each gate [of Cambaluc] there is a great and handsome palace.' I have little
doubt that over the gates of Cambaluc, stood lofty buildings similar to those over the gates
of modern Peking. These tower-like buildings are called lou by the Chinese. It may be very
likely, that at the time of Marco Polo, the war harness of the Khan was stored in these towers
of the palace wall. The author of the Ch'ue keng lu, who wrote more than fifty years later,
assigns to it another place." (Bretschneider, Peking, 32.) --H.C.]

NOTE 4.--The stores are now outside the walls of the "Prohibited City," corresponding to Polo's
Palace-Wall, but within the walls of the "Imperial City." (Middle Kingdom, I. 61.) See the
cut at p. 376.

NOTE 5.--The two gates near the corners apparently do not exist in the Palace now. "On the
south side there are three gates to the Palace, both in the inner and the outer walls. The
middle one is absolutely reserved for the entrance or exit of the Emperor; all other people
pass in and out by the gate to the right or left of it." (Trigautius, Bk. I. ch. vii.) This
custom is not in China peculiar to Royalty. In private houses it is usual to have three doors
leading from the court to the guestrooms, and there is a great exercise of politeness in reference
to these; the guest after much pressing is prevailed on to enter the middle door, whilst the
host enters by the side. (See Deguignes, Voyages, I. 262.) [See also H. Cordier's Hist. des
Relat. de la Chine, III. ch. x. Audience Impériale.]

["It seems Polo took the three gateways in the middle gate (Ta-ming men) for three gates, and
thus speaks of five gates instead of three in the southern wall." (Bretschneider, Peking, 27,
note.)--H. C.]

NOTE 6.--Ramusio's version here diverges from the old MSS. It makes the inner enclosure a mile
square; and the second (the city of Taidu) six miles square, as here, but adds, at a mile interval,
a third of eight miles square. Now it is remarkable that Mr. A. Wylie, in a letter dated 4th
December 1873, speaking of a recent visit to Peking, says: "I found from various inquiries
that there are several remains of a very much larger city wall, inclosing the present city;
but time would not allow me to follow up the traces."

Pauthier's text (which I have corrected by the G. T.), after describing the outer inclosure
to be a mile every way, says that the inner inclosure lay at an interval of a mile within it!

[Dr. Bretschneider observes "that in the ancient Chinese works, three concentric inclosures
are mentioned in connection with the palace. The innermost inclosed the Ta-nei, the middle
inclosure, called Kung-ch'eng or Huang-ch'eng, answering to the wall surrounding the present
prohibited city, and was about 6 li in circuit. Besides this there was an outer wall (a rampart
apparently) 20 li in circuit, answering to the wall of the present imperial city (which now
has 18 li in circuit)." The Huang-ch'eng of the Yuen was measured by imperial order, and found
to be 7 li in circuit; the wall of the Mongol palace was 6 li in circuit, according to the
Ch'ue keng lu. (Bretschneider, Peking, 24.)--Marco Polo's mile could be approximately estimated
= 2.77 Chinese li. (Ibid. 24, note.) The common Chinese li = 360 pu, or 180 chang, or 1800
ch'i (feet); 1 li = 1894 English feet or 575 mètres; at least according to the old Venice measures
quoted in Yule's Marco Polo, II., one pace = 5 feet. Besides the common li, the Chinese have
another li, used for measuring fields, which has only 240 pu or 1200 ch'i. This is the li spoken
of in the Ch'ue keng lu. (Ibid. 13, note.)--H. C.]

NOTE 7.--["Near the southern face of the wall are barracks for the Life Guards." (Ch'ue keng
lu, translated by Bretschneider, 25.)--H. C.]

NOTE 8.--This description of palace (see opposite cut), an elevated basement of masonry with
a superstructure of timber (in general carved and gilded), is still found in Burma, Siam, and
Java, as well as in China. If we had any trace of the palaces of the ancient Asokas and Vikramadityas
of India, we should probably find that they were of the same character. It seems to be one
of those things that belonged to some ancient Panasiatic fashion, as the palaces of Nineveh
were of a somewhat similar construction. In the Audience Halls of the Moguls at Delhi and Agra
we can trace the ancient form, though the superstructure has there become an arcade of marble
instead of a pavilion on timber columns.

["The Ta-ming tien (Hall of great brightness) is without doubt what Marco Polo calls 'the Lord's
Great Palace.'... He states, that it 'hath no upper story'; and indeed, the palace buildings
which the Chinese call tien are always of one story. Polo speaks also of a 'very fine pillared
balustrade' (the chu lang, pillared verandah, of the Chinese author). Marco Polo states that
the basement of the great palace 'is raised some ten palms above the surrounding soil.' We
find in the Ku kung i lu: 'The basement of the Ta-ming tien is raised about 10 ch'i above the
soil.' There can also be no doubt that the Ta-ming tien stood at about the same place where
now the T'ai-ho tien, the principal hall of the palace, is situated." (Bretschneider, Peking,
28, note.)

The Ch'ue keng lu, translated by Bretschneider, 25, contains long articles devoted to the description
of the palace of the Mongols and the adjacent palace grounds. They are too long to be reproduced
here.--H. C.]

NOTE 9.--"As all that one sees of these palaces is varnished in those colours, when you catch
a distant view of them at sunrise, as I have done many a time, you would think them all made
of, or at least covered with, pure gold enamelled in azure and green, so that the spectacle
is at once majestic and charming." (Magaillans, p. 353.)

NOTE 10.--[This is the Ling yu or "Divine Park," to the east of the Wan-sui shan, "in which
rare birds and beasts are kept. Before the Emperor goes to Shang-tu, the officers are accustomed
to be entertained at this place." (Ch'ue keng lu, quoted by Bretschneider, 36.)--H. C.]

NOTE 11.--"On the west side, where the space is amplest, there is a lake very full of fish.
It is in the form of a fiddle, and is an Italian mile and a quarter in length. It is crossed
at the narrowest part, which corresponds to gates in the walls, by a handsome bridge, the extremities
of which are adorned by two triumphal arches of three openings each.... The lake is surrounded
by palaces and pleasure houses, built partly in the water and partly on shore, and charming
boats are provided on it for the use of the Emperor when he chooses to go a-fishing or to take
an airing." (Ibid. 282-283.) The marble bridge, as it now exists, consists of nine arches,
and is 600 feet long. (Rennie's Peking, II. 57.)

Ramusio specifies another lake in the city, fed by the same stream before it enters the palace,
and used by the public for watering cattle.

["The lake which Marco Polo saw is the same as the T'ai-yi ch'i of our days. It has, however,
changed a little in its form. This lake and also its name T'ai-yi ch'i date from the twelfth
century, at which time an Emperor of the Kin first gave orders to collect together the water
of some springs in the hills, where now the summer palaces stand, and to conduct it to a place
north of his capital, where pleasure gardens were laid out. The river which enters the lake
and issues from it exists still, under its ancient name Kin-shui." (Bretschneider, Peking,
34.)--H. C.]

NOTE 12.--The expression here is in the Geog. Text, "Roze de l'açur," and in Pauthier's "de
rose et de l'asur." Rose Minerale, in the terminology of the alchemists, was a red powder produced
in the sublimation of gold and mercury, but I can find no elucidation of the term Rose of Azure.
The Crusca Italian has in the same place Terra dello Azzurro. Having ventured to refer the
question to the high authority of Mr. C. W. King, he expresses the opinion that Roze here stands
for Roche, and that probably the term Roche de l'azur may have been used loosely for blue-stone,
i.e. carbonate of copper, which would assume a green colour through moisture. He adds: "Nero,
according to Pliny, actually used chrysocolla, the siliceous carbonate of copper, in powder,
for strewing the circus, to give the course the colour of his favourite faction, the prasine
(or green). There may be some analogy between this device and that of Kúblái Khan." This parallel
is a very happy one.

NOTE 13.--Friar Odoric gives a description, short, but closely agreeing in substance with that
in the Text, of the Palace, the Park, the Lake, and the Green Mount.

A green mount, answering to the description, and about 160 feet in height, stands immediately
in rear of the palace buildings. It is called by the Chinese King-Shan, "Court Mountain," Wan-su-Shan,
"Ten Thousand Year Mount," and Mei-Shan, "Coal Mount," the last from the material of which
it is traditionally said to be composed (as a provision of fuel in case of siege).[1] Whether
this is Kúblái's Green Mount does not seem to be quite certain. Dr. Lockhart tells me that,
according to the information he collected when living at Peking, it is not so, but was formed
by the Ming Emperors from the excavation of the existing lake on the site which the Mongol
Palace had occupied. There is another mount, he adds, adjoining the east shore of the lake,
which must be of older date even than Kúblái, for a Dagoba standing on it is ascribed to the Kin.

[The "Green Mount" was an island called K'iung-hua at the time of the Kin; in 1271 it received
the name of Wan-sui shan; it is about 100 feet in height, and is the only hill mentioned by
Chinese writers of the Mongol time who refer to the palace grounds. It is not the present King-shan,
north of the palace, called also Wan-sui-shan under the Ming, and now the Mei-shan, of more
recent formation. "I have no doubt," says Bretschneider (Peking, l.c. 35), "that Marco Polo's
handsome palace on the top of the Green Mount is the same as the Kuang-han tien" of the Ch'ue
keng lu. It was a hall in which there was a jar of black jade, big enough to hold more than
30 piculs of wine; this jade had white veins, and in accordance with these veins, fish and
animals have been carved on the jar. (Ibid. 35.) "The Ku kung i lu, in describing the Wan-sui-shan,
praises the beautiful shady green of the vegetation there." (Ibid. 37.) --H. C.]

["Near the eastern end of the bridge (Kin-ao yü-tung which crosses the lake) the visitor sees
a circular wall, which is called yüan ch'eng (round wall). It is about 350 paces in circuit.
Within it is an imperial building Ch'eng-kuang tien, dating from the Mongol time. From this
circular enclosure, another long and beautifully executed marble bridge leads northwards, to
a charming hill, covered with shady trees, and capped by a magnificent white suburga." (Bretschneider,
p. 22.)--H. C.]

In a plate attached to next chapter, I have drawn, on a small scale, the existing cities of
Peking, as compared with the Mongol and Chinese cities in the time of Kúblái. The plan of the
latter has been constructed (1) from existing traces, as exhibited in the Russian Survey republished
by our War Office; (2) from information kindly afforded by Dr. Lockhart; and (3) from Polo's
description and a few slight notices by Gaubil and others. It will be seen, even on the small
scale of these plans, that the general arrangement of the palace, the park, the lakes (including
that in the city, which appears in Ramusio's version), the bridge, the mount, etc., in the
existing Peking, very closely correspond with Polo's indications; and I think the strong probability
is that the Ming really built on the old traces, and that the lake, mount, etc., as they now
stand, are substantially those of the Great Mongol, though Chinese policy or patriotism may
have spread the belief that the foreign traces were obliterated. Indeed, if that belief were
true, the Mongol Palace must have been very much out of the axis of the City of Kúblái, which
is in the highest degree improbable. The Bulletin de la Soc. de Geographie for September 1873,
contains a paper on Peking by the physician to the French Embassy there. Whatever may be the
worth of the meteorological and hygienic details in that paper, I am bound to say that the
historical and topographical part is so inaccurate as to be of no value.

NOTE 14.--For son, read grandson. But the G. T. actually names the Emperor's son Chingkim,
whose death our traveller has himself already mentioned.

NOTE 15.--["Marco Polo's bridge, crossing the lake from one side to the other, must be identified
with the wooden bridge mentioned in the Ch'ue keng lu. The present marble bridge spanning the
lake was only built in 1392." "A marble bridge connects this island (an islet with the hall
I- t'ien tien) with the Wan-sui shan. Another bridge, made of wood, 120 ch'i long and 22 broad,
leads eastward to the wall of the Imperial Palace. A third bridge, a wooden draw-bridge 470
ch'i long, stretches to the west over the lake to its western border, where the palace Hing-sheng
kung [built in 1308] stands." (Bretschneider, Peking, 36.)--H. C.]

[1] Some years ago, in Calcutta, I learned that a large store of charcoal
    existed under the soil of Fort William, deposited there, I believe, in
    the early days of that fortress.

    ["The Jihia says that the name of Mei shan (Coal hill) was given
    to it from the stock of coal buried at its foot, as a provision in
    case of siege." (Bretschneider, Peking, 38.)--H. C.]

CHAPTER XI.

CONCERNING THE CITY OF CAMBALUC.

Now there was on that spot in old times a great and noble city called CAMBALUC, which is as
much as to say in our tongue "The city of the Emperor."[NOTE 1] But the Great Kaan was informed
by his Astrologers that this city would prove rebellious, and raise great disorders against
his imperial authority. So he caused the present city to be built close beside the old one,
with only a river between them.[NOTE 2] And he caused the people of the old city to be removed
to the new town that he had founded; and this is called TAIDU. [However, he allowed a portion
of the people which he did not suspect to remain in the old city, because the new one could
not hold the whole of them, big as it is.]

As regards the size of this (new) city you must know that it has a compass of 24 miles, for
each side of it hath a length of 6 miles, and it is four-square. And it is all walled round
with walls of earth which have a thickness of full ten paces at bottom, and a height of more
than 10 paces;[NOTE 3] but they are not so thick at top, for they diminish in thickness as
they rise, so that at top they are only about 3 paces thick. And they are provided throughout
with loop-holed battlements, which are all whitewashed.

There are 12 gates, and over each gate there is a great and handsome palace, so that there
are on each side of the square three gates and five palaces; for (I ought to mention) there
is at each angle also a great and handsome palace. In those palaces are vast halls in which
are kept the arms of the city garrison.[NOTE 4]

The streets are so straight and wide that you can see right along them from end to end and
from one gate to the other. And up and down the city there are beautiful palaces, and many
great and fine hostelries, and fine houses in great numbers. [All the plots of ground on which
the houses of the city are built are four-square, and laid out with straight lines; all the
plots being occupied by great and spacious palaces, with courts and gardens of proportionate
size. All these plots were assigned to different heads of families. Each square plot is encompassed
by handsome streets for traffic; and thus the whole city is arranged in squares just like a
chess-board, and disposed in a manner so perfect and masterly that it is impossible to give
a description that should do it justice.][NOTE 5]

Moreover, in the middle of the city there is a great clock--that is to say, a bell--which is
struck at night. And after it has struck three times no one must go out in the city, unless
it be for the needs of a woman in labour, or of the sick.[NOTE 6] And those who go about on
such errands are bound to carry lanterns with them. Moreover, the established guard at each
gate of the city is 1000 armed men; not that you are to imagine this guard is kept up for fear
of any attack, but only as a guard of honour for the Sovereign, who resides there, and to prevent
thieves from doing mischief in the town.[NOTE 7]

NOTE 1.-- + The history of the city on the site of Peking goes back to very old times, for
it had been [under the name of Ki] the capital of the kingdom of Yen, previous to B.C. 222,
when it was captured by the Prince of the T'sin Dynasty. [Under the T'ang dynasty (618-907)
it was known under the name of Yu-chau.] It became one of the capitals of the Khitans in A.D.
936, and of the Kin sovereigns, who took it in 1125, in 1151 under the name of Chung-tu. Under
the name of Yenking, [given to this city in 1013] it has a conspicuous place in the wars of
Chinghiz against the latter dynasty. He captured it in 1215. In 1264, Kúblái adopted it as
his chief residence, and founded in 1267, the new city of TATU ("Great Court"), called by the
Mongols TAIDU or DAITU since 1271 (see Bk. I. ch. lxi. note 1), at a little distance--Odoric
says half a mile--to the north-east of the old Yenking. Tatu was completed in the summer of 1267.

Old Yenking had, when occupied by the Kin, a circuit of 27 li (commonly estimated at 9 miles,
but in early works the li is not more than 1/5 of a mile), afterwards increased to 30 li. But
there was some kind of outer wall about the city and its suburbs, the circuit of which is called
75 li. ["At the time of the Yuen the walls still existed, and the ancient city of the Kin was
commonly called Nan-ch'eng (Southern city), whilst the Mongol capital was termed the northern
city." Bretschneider, Peking, 10.--H. C.] (Lockhart; and see Amyot, II. 553, and note 6 to
last chapter.)

Polo correctly explains the name Cambaluc, i.e. Kaan-baligh, "The City of the Kaan."

NOTE 2.--The river that ran between the old and new city must have been the little river Yu,
which still runs through the modern Tartar city, and fills the city ditches.

[Dr. Bretschneider (Peking, 49) thinks that there is a strong probability that Polo speaks
of the Wen-ming ho, a river which, according to the ancient descriptions, ran near the southern
wall of the Mongol capital.--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--This height is from Pauthier's Text; the G. Text has, "twenty paces," i.e. 100 feet.
A recent French paper states the dimensions of the existing walls as 14 mètres (45-1/2 feet)
high, and 14.50 (47-1/4 feet) thick, "the top forming a paved promenade, unique of its kind,
and recalling the legendary walls of Thebes and Babylon." (Ann. d'Hygiène Publique, 2nd s.
tom, xxxii. for 1869, p. 21.)

[According to the French astronomers (Fleuriais and Lapied) sent to Peking for the Transit
of Venus in December, 1875, the present Tartar city is 23 kil. 55 in circuit, viz. if 1 li
= 575 m., 41 li; from the north to the south 5400 mètres; from east to west 6700 mètres; the
wall is 13 mètres in height and 12 mètres in width.--H. C.]

NOTE 4.--Our attempted plan of Cambaluc, as in 1290, differs somewhat from this description,
but there is no getting over certain existing facts.

The existing Tartar city of Peking (technically Neï-ch'ing, "The Interior City," or King-ch'ing,
"City of the Court") stands on the site of Taidu, and represents it. After the expulsion of
the Mongols (1368) the new native Dynasty of Ming established their capital at Nanking. But
this was found so inconvenient that the third sovereign of the Dynasty re- occupied Taidu or
Cambaluc, the repairs of which began in 1409. He reduced it in size by cutting off nearly a
third part of the city at the north end. The remains of this abandoned portion of wall are,
however, still in existence, approaching 30 feet in height all round. This old wall is called
by the Chinese The Wall of the Yuen (i.e. the Mongol Dynasty), and it is laid down in the Russian
Survey. [The capital of the Ming was 40 li in circuit, according to the Ch'ang an k'o hua.]
The existing walls were built, or restored rather (the north wall being in any case, of course,
entirely new), in 1437. There seems to be no doubt that the present south front of the Tartar
city was the south front of Taidu. The whole outline of Taidu is therefore still extant, and
easily measurable. If the scale on the War Office edition of the Russian Survey be correct,
the long sides measure close upon 5 miles and 500 yards; the short sides, 3 miles and 1200
yards. Hence the whole perimeter was just about 18 English miles, or less than 16 Italian miles.
If, however, a pair of compasses be run round Taidu and Yenking (as we have laid the latter
down from such data as could be had) together, the circuit will be something like 24 Italian
miles, and this may have to do with Polo's error.

["The Yuen shi states that Ta-tu was 60 li in circumference. The Ch'ue keng lu, a work published
at the close of the Yuen Dynasty, gives the same number of li for the circuit of the capital,
but explains that li of 240 pu each are meant. If this statement be correct, it would give
only 40 common or geographical li for the circuit of the Mongol town." (Bretschneider, Peking,
13.) Dr. Bretschneider writes (p. 20): "The outlines of Khanbaligh, partly in contradiction
with the ancient Chinese records, if my view be correct, would have measured about 50 common
li in circuit (13 li and more from north to south, 11.64 from east to west.")--H. C.]

Polo [and Odoric] again says that there were 12 gates--3 to every side. Both Gaubil and Martini
also say that there were 12 gates. But I believe that both are trusting to Marco. There are
9 gates in the present Tartar city--viz. 3 on the south side and 2 on each of the other sides.
The old Chinese accounts say there were 11 gates in Taidu. (See Amyot, Mém. II. 553.) I have
in my plan, therefore, assumed that one gate on the east and one on the west were obliterated
in the reduction of the enceinte by the Ming. But I must observe that Mr. Lockhart tells me
he did not find the traces of gates in those positions, whilst the 2 gates on the north side
of the old Mongol rampart are quite distinct, with the barbicans in front, and the old Mongol
bridge over the ditch still serving for the public thoroughfare.[1]

["The Yuen shi as well as the Ch'ue keng lu, and other works of the Yuen, agree in stating
that the capital had eleven gates. They are enumerated in the following order: Southern wall--(1)
The gate direct south (mid.) was called Li-cheng men; (2) the gate to the left (east), Wen-ming
men; (3) the gate to the right (west), Shun-ch'eng men. Eastern wall--(4) The gate direct east
(mid.), Ch'ung-jen men; (5) the gate to the south-east, Ts'i-hua men; (6) the gate to the north-east,
Kuang-hi men. Western wall--(7) The gate direct west (mid.), Ho-i men; (8) the gate to the
south-west, P'ing-tse men; (9) the gate to the north-west, Su-ts'ing men. Northern Wall--(10)
The gate to the north-west, K'ien-te men; (11) the gate to the north-east, An-chen men." (Bretschneider,
Peking, 13-14.)--H. C.]

When the Ming established themselves on the old Mongol site, population seems to have gathered
close about the southern wall, probably using material from the remains of Yenking. This excrescence
was inclosed by a new wall in 1554, and was called the "Outer Town." It is what is called by
Europeans the Chinese City. Its western wall exhibits in the base sculptured stones, which
seem to have belonged to the old palace of Yenking. Some traces of Yenking still existed in
Gaubil's time; the only relic of it now pointed out is a pagoda outside of the Kwang-An-Man,
or western gate of the Outer City, marked in the War Office edition of the Russian Map as "Tower."
(Information from Dr. Lockhart.)

The "Great Palaces" over the gates and at the corner bastions are no doubt well illustrated
by the buildings which still occupy those positions. There are two such lofty buildings at
each of the gates of the modern city, the outer one (shown on p. 376) forming an elevated redoubt.

NOTE 5.--The French writer cited under note 3 says of the city as it stands: "La ville est
de la sorte coupée en échiquier à peu près régulier dont les quadres circonscrits par des larges
avenues sont percés eux-mêmes d'une multitude de rues et ruelles ... qui toutes à peu prés
sont orientées N. et S., E. et O. Une seule volonté a évidemment présidé à ce plan, et jamais
édilité n'a eu à exécuter d'un seul coup aussi vaste entreprise."

NOTE 6.--Martini speaks of the public clock-towers in the Chinese cities, which in his time
were furnished with water-clocks. A watchman struck the hour on a great gong, at the same time
exhibiting the hour in large characters. The same person watched for fires, and summoned the
public with his gong to aid in extinguishing them.

[The Rev. G. B. Farthing mentions (North-China Herald, 7th September, 1884) at T'ai-yuen fu
the remains of an object in the bell-tower, which was, and is still known, as one of the eight
wonders of this city; it is a vessel of brass, a part of a water-clock from which water formerly
used to flow down upon a drum beneath and mark off time into equal divisions.--H. C.]

The tower indicated by Marco appears still to exist. It occupies the place which I have marked
as Alarm Tower in the plan of Taidu. It was erected in 1272, but probably rebuilt on the Ming
occupation of the city. ["The Yuen yi t'ung chi, or 'Geography of the Mongol Empire' records:
'In the year 1272, the bell-tower and the drum-tower were built in the middle of the capital.'
A bell-tower (chung-lou) and a drum-tower (ku-lou) exist still in Peking, in the northern part
of the Tartar City. The ku-lou is the same as that built in the thirteenth century, but the
bell-tower dates only from the last century. The bell-tower of the Yuen was a little to the
east of the drum-tower, where now the temple Wan-ning sse stands. This temple is nearly in
the middle of the position I (Bretschneider) assign to Khanbaligh." (Bretschneider, Peking,
20.)--H. C.] In the Court of the Old Observatory at Peking there is preserved, with a few other
ancient instruments, which date from the Mongol era, a very elaborate water-clock, provided
with four copper basins embedded in brickwork, and rising in steps one above the other. A cut
of this courtyard, with its instruments and aged trees, also ascribed to the Mongol time, will
be found in ch. xxxiii. (Atlas Sinensis, p. 10; Magaillans, 149-151; Chine Moderne, p. 26;
Tour du Monde for 1864, vol. ii. p. 34.)

NOTE 7.--"Nevertheless," adds the Ramusian, "there does exist I know not what uneasiness about
the people of Cathay."

[1] Mr. Wylie confirms my assumption: "Whilst in Peking I traced the old
    mud wall,... and found it quite in accordance with the outline in your
    map. Mr. Gilmour (a missionary to the Mongols) and I rode round it, he
    taking the outside and I the inside.... Neither of us observed the
    arch that Dr. Lockhart speaks of.... There are gate-openings about
    the middle of the east and west sides, but no barbicans."

You must know that the Great Kaan, to maintain his state, hath a guard of twelve thousand horsemen,
who are styled KESHICAN, which is as much as to say "Knights devoted to their Lord." Not that
he keeps these for fear of any man whatever, but merely because of his own exalted dignity.
These 12,000 men have four captains, each of whom is in command of 3000; and each body of 3000
takes a turn of three days and nights to guard the palace, where they also take their meals.
After the expiration of three days and nights they are relieved by another 3000, who mount
guard for the same space of time, and then another body takes its turn, so that there are always
3000 on guard. Thus it goes until the whole 12,000, who are styled (as I said) Keshican, have
been on duty; and then the tour begins again, and so runs on from year's end to year's end.[NOTE 1]

NOTE 1.--I have deduced a reading for the word Quescican (Keshican), which is not found precisely
in any text. Pauthier reads Questiau and Quesitau; the G. Text has Quesitam and Quecitain;
the Crusca Questi Tan; Ramusio, Casitan; the Riccardiana, Quescitam. Recollecting the constant
clerical confusion between c and t, what follows will leave no doubt I think that the true
reading to which all these variations point is Quescican.[1]

In the Institutes of Ghazan Khan, we find established among other formalities for the authentication
of the royal orders, that they should be stamped on the back, in black ink, with the seals
of the Four Commanders of the Four Kiziks, or Corps of the Life Guard.

Wassáf also, in detailing the different classes of the great dignitaries of the Mongol monarchy,
names (1) the Noyáns of the Ulus, or princes of the blood; (2) the great chiefs of the tribes;
(3) the Amírs of the four Keshik, or Corps of the Body Guard; (4) the officers of the army,
commanding ten thousands, thousands, and so on.

Moreover, in Rashiduddin, we find the identical plural form used by our author. He says that,
after the sack of Baghdad, Hulaku, who had escaped from the polluted atmosphere of the city,
sent "Ilká Noyán and Karábúgá, with 3000 Moghul horse into Baghdad, in order to have the buildings
repaired, and to put things generally in order. These chiefs posted sentries from the KISHÍKÁN
([Arabic]), and from their own followings in the different quarters of the town, had the carcases
of beasts removed from the streets, and caused the bazaars to be rebuilt."

We find Kishik still used at the court of Hindustan, under the great kings of Timur's House,
for the corps on tour of duty at the palace; and even for the sets of matchlocks and sabres,
which were changed weekly from Akbar's armoury for the royal use. The royal guards in Persia,
who watch the king's person at night, are termed Keshikchi, and their captain Keshikchi Bashi.
["On the night of the 11th of Jemady ul Sany, A.H. 1160 (or 8th June, 1747), near the city
of Khojoon, three days' journey from Meshed, Mohammed Kuly Khan Ardemee, who was of the same
tribe with Nadir Shah, his relation, and Kushukchee Bashee, with seventy of the Kukshek or
guard,... bound themselves by an oath to assassinate Nadir Shah." (Memoirs of Khojeh Abdulkurreem
... transl. by F. Gladwin, Calcutta, 1788, pp. 166-167).]

Friar Odoric speaks of the four barons who kept watch by the Great Kaan's side as the Cuthé,
which probably represents the Chinese form Kiesie (as in De Mailla), or Kuesie (as in Gaubil).
The latter applies the term to four devoted champions of Chinghiz, and their descendants, who
were always attached to the Kaan's body-guard, and he identifies them with the Quesitan of
Polo, or rather with the captains of the latter; adding expressly that the word Kuesie is Mongol.

I see Kishik is a proper name among the Kalmak chiefs; and Keshikten also is the name of a
Mongol tribe, whose territory lies due north of Peking, near the old site of Shangtu. (Bk.
I. ch. lxi.) [Keshikhteng, a tribe (pu; mong. aimak) of the Chao Uda League (mêng; mong. chogolgân)
among the twenty-four tribes of the Nei Mung-ku (Inner Mongols). (See Mayers' Chinese Government,
p. 81.)--H. C.] In Kovalevsky, I find the following:--

(No. 2459) "Keshik, grace, favour, bounty, benefit, good fortune, charity."

(No. 2461) "Keshikten, fortunate, happy, blessed."

(No. 2541) "Kichyeku, to be zealous, assiduous, devoted."

(No. 2588) "Kushiku, to hinder, to bar the way to," etc.

The third of these corresponds closely with Polo's etymology of "knights devoted to their lord,"
but perhaps either the first or the last may afford the real derivation.

In spite of the different initials ([Arabic] instead of [Arabic]), it can scarcely be doubted
that the Kalchi and Kalakchi of Timur's Institutes are mere mistranscriptions of the same word,
e.g.: "I ordered that 12,000 Kalchi, men of the sword completely armed, should be cantoned
in the Palace; to the right and to the left, to the front, and in the rear of the imperial
diwán; thus, that 1000 of those 12,000 should be every night upon guard," etc. The translator's
note says of Kalchi, "A Mogul word supposed to mean guards." We see that even the traditional
number of 12,000, and its division into four brigades, are maintained. (See Timour's Inst.,
pp. 299 and 235, 237.)

I must add that Professor Vámbéry does not assent to the form Keshikán, on the ground that
this Persian plural is impossible in an old Tartar dialect, and he supposes the true word to
be Kechilan or Kechiklen, "the night-watchers," from Kiche or Kichek (Chag. and Uighúr), = "night."

I believe, however, that Persian was the colloquial language of foreigners at the Kaan's court,
who would not scruple to make a Persian plural when wanted; whilst Rashid has exemplified the
actual use of this one.

(D'Ohsson, IV. 410; Gold. Horde, 228, 238; Ilch. II. 184; Q. R. pp. 308-309; Ayeen Akb. I.
270, and Blochmann's, p. 115; J. As. sèr. IV. tom. xix. 276; Olearius, ed. 1659, I. 656; Cathay,
135; De Mailla, ix. 106; Gaubil, p. 6; Pallas, Samml. I. 35.)

["By Keshican in Colonel Yule's Marco Polo, Keshikten is evidently meant. This is a general
Mongol term to designate the Khan's lifeguard. It is derived from the word Keshik, meaning
a guard by turns; a corps on tour of duty. Keshik is one of the archaisms of the Mongol language,
for now this word has another meaning in Mongol. Colonel Yule has brought together several
explanations of the term.

"The Keshikten was divided into a day-watch called Turgaut and a night-watch Kebteul. The Kebte-ul
consisted of pure Mongols, whilst the Turgaut was composed of the sons of the vassal princes
and governors of the provinces, and of hostages. The watch of the Khan was changed every three
days, and contained 400 men. In 1330 it was reduced to 100 men." (Palladius, 42-43.) Mr. E.
H. Parker writes in the China Review, XVIII. p. 262, that they "are evidently the 'body guards'
of the modern viceroys, now pronounced Kashiha, but, evidently, originally Kêshigha." --H. C.]

[1] One of the nearest readings is that of the Brandenburg Latin collated
    by Müller, which has Quaesicam.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE FASHION OF THE GREAT KAAN'S TABLE AT HIS HIGH FEASTS.

And when the Great Kaan sits at table on any great court occasion, it is in this fashion. His
table is elevated a good deal above the others, and he sits at the north end of the hall, looking
towards the south, with his chief wife beside him on the left. On his right sit his sons and
his nephews, and other kinsmen of the Blood Imperial, but lower, so that their heads are on
a level with the Emperor's feet. And then the other Barons sit at other tables lower still.
So also with the women; for all the wives of the Lord's sons, and of his nephews and other
kinsmen, sit at the lower table to his right; and below them again the ladies of the other
Barons and Knights, each in the place assigned by the Lord's orders. The tables are so disposed
that the Emperor can see the whole of them from end to end, many as they are.[NOTE 1] [Further,
you are not to suppose that everybody sits at table; on the contrary, the greater part of the
soldiers and their officers sit at their meal in the hall on the carpets.] Outside the hall
will be found more than 40,000 people; for there is a great concourse of folk bringing presents
to the Lord, or come from foreign countries with curiosities.

In a certain part of the hall near where the Great Kaan holds his table, there [is set a large
and very beautiful piece of workmanship in the form of a square coffer, or buffet, about three
paces each way, exquisitely wrought with figures of animals, finely carved and gilt. The middle
is hollow, and in it] stands a great vessel of pure gold, holding as much as an ordinary butt;
and at each corner of the great vessel is one of smaller size [of the capacity of a firkin],
and from the former the wine or beverage flavoured with fine and costly spices is drawn off
into the latter. [And on the buffet aforesaid are set all the Lord's drinking vessels, among
which are certain pitchers of the finest gold,] which are called verniques,[NOTE 2] and are
big enough to hold drink for eight or ten persons. And one of these is put between every two
persons, besides a couple of golden cups with handles, so that every man helps himself from
the pitcher that stands between him and his neighbour. And the ladies are supplied in the same
way. The value of these pitchers and cups is something immense; in fact, the Great Kaan has
such a quantity of this kind of plate, and of gold and silver in other shapes, as no one ever
before saw or heard tell of, or could believe.[NOTE 3]

[There are certain Barons specially deputed to see that foreigners, who do not know the customs
of the Court, are provided with places suited to their rank; and these Barons are continually
moving to and fro in the hall, looking to the wants of the guests at table, and causing the
servants to supply them promptly with wine, milk, meat, or whatever they lack. At every door
of the hall (or, indeed, wherever the Emperor may be) there stand a couple of big men like
giants, one on each side, armed with staves. Their business is to see that no one steps upon
the threshold in entering, and if this does happen, they strip the offender of his clothes,
and he must pay a forfeit to have them back again; or in lieu of taking his clothes, they give
him a certain number of blows. If they are foreigners ignorant of the order, then there are
Barons appointed to introduce them, and explain it to them. They think, in fact, that it brings
bad luck if any one touches the threshold. Howbeit, they are not expected to stick at this
in going forth again, for at that time some are like to be the worse for liquor, and incapable
of looking to their steps.[NOTE 4]]

And you must know that those who wait upon the Great Kaan with his dishes and his drink are
some of the great Barons. They have the mouth and nose muffled with fine napkins of silk and
gold, so that no breath nor odour from their persons should taint the dish or the goblet presented
to the Lord. And when the Emperor is going to drink, all the musical instruments, of which
he has vast store of every kind, begin to play. And when he takes the cup all the Barons and
the rest of the company drop on their knees and make the deepest obeisance before him, and
then the Emperor doth drink. But each time that he does so the whole ceremony is repeated.[NOTE 5]

I will say nought about the dishes, as you may easily conceive that there is a great plenty
of every possible kind. But you should know that in every case where a Baron or Knight dines
at those tables, their wives also dine there with the other ladies. And when all have dined
and the tables have been removed, then come in a great number of players and jugglers, adepts
at all sorts of wonderful feats,[NOTE 6] and perform before the Emperor and the rest of the
company, creating great diversion and mirth, so that everybody is full of laughter and enjoyment.
And when the performance is over, the company breaks up and every one goes to his quarters.

NOTE 1.--We are to conceive of rows of small tables, at each of which were set probably but
two guests. This seems to be the modern Chinese practice, and to go back to some very old accounts
of the Tartar nations. Such tables we find in use in the tenth century, at the court of the
King of Bolghar (see Prologue, note 2, ch. ii.), and at the Chinese entertainments to Shah
Rukh's embassy in the fifteenth century. Megasthenes described the guests at an Indian banquet
as having a table set before each individual. (Athenaeus, IV. 39, Yonge's Transl.)

[Compare Rubruck's account, Rockhill's ed., p. 210: "The Chan sits in a high place to the north,
so that he can be seen by all...." (See also Friar Odoric, Cathay, p. 141.)--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--This word (G. T. and Ram.) is in the Crusca Italian transformed into an adjective,
"vaselle vernicate d'oro," and both Marsden and Pauthier have substantially adopted the same
interpretation, which seems to me in contradiction with the text. In Pauthier's text the word
is vernigal, pl. vernigaux, which he explains, I know not on what authority, as "coupes sans
anses vernies ou laquées d'or." There is, indeed, a Venetian sea-term, Vernegal, applied to
a wooden bowl in which the food of a mess is put, and it seems possible that this word may
have been substituted for the unknown Vernique. I suspect the latter was some Oriental term,
but I can find nothing nearer than the Persian Barni, Ar. Al-Barníya, "vas fictile in quo quid
recondunt," whence the Spanish word Albornia, "a great glazed vessel in the shape of a bowl,
with handles." So far as regards the form, the change of Barniya into Vernique would be quite
analogous to that change of Hundwáníy into Ondanique, which we have already met with. (See
Dozy et Engelmann, Glos. des Mots Espagnols, etc., 2nd ed., 1867, p. 73; and Boerio, Diz. del.
Dial. Venez.)

[F. Godefroy, Dict., s.v. Vernigal, writes: "Coupe sans anse, vernie ou laquée d'or," and quotes,
besides Marco Polo, the Regle du Temple, p. 214, éd. Soc. Hist. de France:

    "Les vernigaus et les escuelles."

About vernegal, cf. Rockhill, Rubruck, p. 86, note. Rubruck says (Soc. de Géog. p. 241): "Implevimus
unum veringal de biscocto et platellum unum de pomis et aliis fructibus." Mr. Rockhill translates
veringal by basket.

Dr. Bretschneider (Peking, 28) mentions "a large jar made of wood and varnished, the inside
lined with silver," and he adds in a note "perhaps this statement may serve to explain Marco
Polo's verniques or vaselle vernicate d'oro, big enough to hold drink for eight or ten persons."--H.
C.]

A few lines above we have "of the capacity of a firkin." The word is bigoncio, which is explained
in the Vocab. Univ. Ital. as a kind of tub used in the vintage, and containing 3 mine, each
of half a stajo. This seems to point to the Tuscan mina, or half stajo, which is = 1/3 of a
bushel. Hence the bigoncio would = a bushel, or, in old liquid measure, about a firkin.

NOTE 3.--A buffet, with flagons of liquor and goblets, was an essential feature in the public
halls or tents of the Mongols and other Asiatic races of kindred manners. The ambassadors of
the Emperor Justin relate that in the middle of the pavilion of Dizabulus, the Khan of the
Turks, there were set out drinking-vessels, and flagons and great jars, all of gold; corresponding
to the coupes (or hanas à mances), the verniques, and the grant peitere and petietes peiteres
of Polo's account. Rubruquis describes in Batu Khan's tent a buffet near the entrance, where
Kumiz was set forth, with great goblets of gold and silver, etc., and the like at the tent
of the Great Kaan. At a festival at the court of Oljaitu, we are told, "Before the throne stood
golden buffets ... set out with full flagons and goblets." Even in the private huts of the
Mongols there was a buffet of a humbler kind exhibiting a skin of Kumiz, with other kinds of
drink, and cups standing ready; and in a later age at the banquets of Shah Abbas we find the
great buffet in a slightly different form, and the golden flagon still set to every two persons,
though it no longer contained the liquor, which was handed round. (Cathay, clxiv., cci.; Rubr.
224, 268, 305; Ilch. II. 183; Della Valle, I. 654 and 750-751.)

[Referring to the "large and very beautiful piece of workmanship," Mr. Rockhill, Rubruck, 208-209,
writes: "Similar works of art and mechanical contrivances were often seen in Eastern courts.
The earliest I know of is the golden plane-tree and grape vine with bunches of grapes in precious
stones, which was given to Darius by Pythius the Lydian, and which shaded the king's couch.
(Herodotus, IV. 24.) The most celebrated, however, and that which may have inspired Mangu with
the desire to have something like it at his court, was the famous Throne of Solomon ([Greek:
Solomónteos Thrónos]) of the Emperor of Constantinople, Theophilus (A.D. 829-842).... Abulfeda
states that in A.D. 917 the envoys of Constantine Porphyrogenitus to the Caliph el Moktader
saw in the palace of Bagdad a tree with eighteen branches, some of gold, some of silver, and
on them were gold and silver birds, and the leaves of the tree were of gold and silver. By
means of machinery, the leaves were made to rustle and the birds to sing. Mirkhond speaks also
of a tree of gold and precious stones in the city of Sultanieh, in the interior of which were
conduits through which flowed drinks of different kinds. Clavijo describes a somewhat similar
tree at the court of Timur."

Dr. Bretschneider (Peking, 28, 29) mentions a clepsydra with a lantern. By means of machinery
put in motion by water, at fixed times a little man comes forward exhibiting a tablet, which
announces the hours. He speaks also of a musical instrument which is connected, by means of
a tube, with two peacocks sitting on a cross-bar, and when it plays, the mechanism causes the
peacocks to dance.--H. C.]

Odoric describes the great jar of liquor in the middle of the palace hall, but in his time
it was made of a great mass of jade (p. 130).

NOTE 4.--This etiquette is specially noticed also by Odoric, as well as by Makrizi, by Rubruquis,
and by Plano Carpini. According to the latter the breach of it was liable to be punished with
death. The prohibition to tread on the threshold is also specially mentioned in a Mahomedan
account of an embassy to the court of Barka Khan. And in regard to the tents, Rubruquis says
he was warned not to touch the ropes, for these were regarded as representing the threshold.
A Russo-Mongol author of our day says that the memory of this etiquette or superstition is
still preserved by a Mongol proverb: "Step not on the threshold; it is a sin!" But among some
of the Mongols more than this survives, as is evident from a passage in Mr. Michie's narrative:
"There is a right and a wrong way of approaching yourt also. Outside the door there are generally
ropes lying on the ground, held down by stakes, for the purpose of tying up the animals when
they want to keep them together. There is a way of getting over or round these ropes that I
never learned, but on one occasion the ignorant breach of the rule on our part excluded us
from the hospitality of the family." The feeling or superstition was in full force in Persia
in the 17th century, at least in regard to the threshold of the king's palace. It was held
a sin to tread upon it in entering. (Cathay, 132; Rubr. 255, 268, 319; Plan. Carp. 625, 741;
Makrizi, I. 214; Mél. Asiat. Ac. St. Petersb. II. 660; The Siberian Overland Route, p. 97;
P. Della Valle, II. 171.)

[Mr. Rockhill writes (Rubruck, p. 104): "The same custom existed among the Fijians, I believe.
I may note that it also prevailed in ancient China. It is said of Confucius 'when he was standing
he did not occupy the middle of the gate-way; when he passed in or out, he did not tread on
the threshold.' (Lun-yü, Bk. X. ch. iv. 2.) In China, the bride's feet must not touch the threshold
of the bridegroom's house, (Cf. Denny's Folk-lore in China, p. 18.)

"The author of the Ch'ue keng lu mentions also the athletes with clubs standing at the door,
at the time of the khan's presence in the hall. He adds, that next to the Khan, two other life-guards
used to stand, who held in their hands 'natural' axes of jade (axes found fortuitously in the
ground, probably primitive weapons)." (Palladius, p. 43.)--H. C.]

NOTE 5.--Some of these etiquettes were probably rather Chinese than Mongol, for the regulations
of the court of Kúblái apparently combined the two. In the visit of Shah Rukh's ambassadors
to the court of the Emperor Ch'êng Tsu of the Ming Dynasty in 1421, we are told that by the
side of the throne, at an imperial banquet, "there stood two eunuchs, each having a band of
thick paper over his mouth, and extending to the tips of his ears.... Every time that a dish,
or a cup of darassun (rice-wine) was brought to the emperor, all the music sounded." (N. et
Ext. XIV. 408, 409.) In one of the Persepolitan sculptures, there stands behind the King an
eunuch bearing a fan, and with his mouth covered; at least so says Heeren. (Asia, I. 178.)

NOTE 6.--"Jongleours et entregetours de maintes plusieurs manieres de granz experimenz" (P.);
"de Giuculer et de Tregiteor" (G. T.). Ital. Tragettatore, a juggler; Romance, Trasjitar, Tragitar,
to juggle. Thus Chaucer:--

  "There saw I playing Jogelours,
  Magiciens, and Tragetours,
  And Phetonisses, Charmeresses,
  Old Witches, Sorceresses," etc.
      --House of Fame, III. 169. 454.

Performances of this kind at Chinese festivities have already been spoken of in note 9 to ch.
lxi. of Book I. Shah Rukh's people, Odoric, Ysbrandt Ides, etc., describe them also. The practice
of introducing such artistes into the dining-hall after dinner seems in that age to have been
usual also in Europe. See, for example, Wright's Domestic Manners, pp. 165-166, and the Court
of the Emperor Frederic II., in Kington's Life of that prince, I. 470. (See also N. et E. XIV.
410; Cathay, 143; Ysb.

You must know that the Tartars keep high festival yearly on their birthdays. And the Great
Kaan was born on the 28th day of the September moon, so on that day is held the greatest feast
of the year at the Kaan's Court, always excepting that which he holds on New Year's Day, of
which I shall tell you afterwards.[NOTE 1]

Now, on his birthday, the Great Kaan dresses in the best of his robes, all wrought with beaten
gold;[NOTE 2] and full 12,000 Barons and Knights on that day come forth dressed in robes of
the same colour, and precisely like those of the Great Kaan, except that they are not so costly;
but still they are all of the same colour as his, and are also of silk and gold. Every man
so clothed has also a girdle of gold; and this as well as the dress is given him by the Sovereign.
And I will aver that there are some of these suits decked with so many pearls and precious
stones that a single suit shall be worth full 10,000 golden bezants.

And of such raiment there are several sets. For you must know that the Great Kaan, thirteen
times in the year, presents to his Barons and Knights such suits of raiment as I am speaking
of.[NOTE 3] And on each occasion they wear the same colour that he does, a different colour
being assigned to each festival. Hence you may see what a huge business it is, and that there
is no prince in the world but he alone who could keep up such customs as these.

On his birthday also, all the Tartars in the world, and all the countries and governments that
owe allegiance to the Kaan, offer him great presents according to their several ability, and
as prescription or orders have fixed the amount. And many other persons also come with great
presents to the Kaan, in order to beg for some employment from him. And the Great Kaan has
chosen twelve Barons on whom is laid the charge of assigning to each of these supplicants a
suitable answer.

On this day likewise all the Idolaters, all the Saracens, and all the Christians and other
descriptions of people make great and solemn devotions, with much chaunting and lighting of
lamps and burning of incense, each to the God whom he doth worship, praying that He would save
the Emperor, and grant him long life and health and happiness.

And thus, as I have related, is celebrated the joyous feast of the Kaan's birthday.[NOTE 4]

Now I will tell you of another festival which the Kaan holds at the New Year, and which is
called the White Feast.

NOTE 1.--The Chinese Year commences, according to Duhalde, with the New Moon nearest to the
Sun's Passage of the middle point of Aquarius; according to Pauthier, with the New Moon immediately
preceding the Sun's entry into Pisces. (These would almost always be identical, but not always.)
Generally speaking, the first month will include part of February and part of March. The eighth
month will then be September-October (v. ante, ch. ii. note 2).

[According to Dr. S. W. Williams (Middle Kingdom, II. p. 70): "The year is lunar, but its commencement
is regulated by the sun. New Year falls on the first new moon after the sun enters Aquarius,
which makes it come not before January 21st nor after February 19th." "The beginning of the
civil year, writes Peter Hoang (Chinese Calendar, p. 13), depends upon the good pleasure of
the Emperors. Under the Emperor Hwang-ti (2697 B.C.) and under the Hsia Dynasty (2205 B.C.),
it was made to commence with the 3rd month yin-yüeh [Pisces]; under the Shang Dynasty (1766
B.C.) with the 2nd month ch'ou-yüeh [Aquarius], and under the Chou Dynasty (1122 B.C.) with
the 1st month tzu-yüeh [Capricorn]."--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--The expression "à or batuz" as here applied to robes, is common among the mediaeval
poets and romance-writers, e.g. Chaucer:--

  "Full yong he was and merry of thought,
  And in samette with birdes wrought
  And with gold beaten full fetously,
  His bodie was clad full richely."
      --Rom. of the Rose, 836-839.

M. Michel thinks that in a stuff so termed the gold wire was beaten out after the execution
of the embroidery, a process which widened the metallic surface and gave great richness of
appearance. The fact was rather, however, according to Dr. Rock, that the gold used in weaving
such tissues was not wire but beaten sheets of gold cut into narrow strips. This would seem
sufficient to explain the term "beaten gold," though Dr. Rock in another passage refers it
to a custom which he alleges of sewing goldsmith's work upon robes. (Fr. Michel, Recherches,
II. 389, also I. 371; Rock's Catalogue, pp. xxv. xxix. xxxviii. cvi.)

NOTE 3.--The number of these festivals and distributions of dresses is thirteen in all the
old texts, except the Latin of the Geog. Soc., which has twelve. Thirteen would seem therefore
to have been in the original copy. And the Ramusian version expands this by saying, "Thirteen
great feasts that the Tartars keep with much solemnity to each of the thirteen moons of the
year."[1] It is possible, however, that this latter sentence is an interpolated gloss; for,
besides the improbability of munificence so frequent, Pauthier has shown some good reasons
why thirteen should be regarded as an error for three. The official History of the Mongol Dynasty,
which he quotes, gives a detail of raiment distributed in presents on great state occasions
three times a year. Such a mistake might easily have originated in the first dictation, treize
substituted for trois, or rather for the old form tres; but we must note that the number 13
is repeated and corroborated in ch. xvi. Odoric speaks of four great yearly festivals, but
there are obvious errors in what he says on this subject. Hammer says the great Mongol Feasts
were three, viz. New Year's Day, the Kaan's Birthday, and the Feast of the Herds.

Something like the changes of costume here spoken of is mentioned by Rubruquis at a great festival
of four days' duration at the court of Mangku Kaan: "Each day of the four they appeared in
different raiment, suits of which were given them for each day of a different colour, but everything
on the same day of one colour, from the boots to the turban." So also Carpini says regarding
the assemblies of the Mongol nobles at the inauguration of Kuyuk Kaan: "The first day they
were all clad in white pourpre (? albis purpuris, see Bk. I. ch. vi. note 4), the second day
in ruby pourpre, the third day in blue pourpre, the fourth day in the finest baudekins." (Cathay,
141; Rubr. 368; Pl. Car. 755.)

[Mr. Rockhill (Rubruck, p. 247, note) makes the following remarks: "Odoric, however, says that
the colours differed according to the rank. The custom of presenting khilats is still observed
in Central Asia and Persia. I cannot learn from any other authority that the Mongols ever wore
turbans. Odoric says the Mongols of the imperial feasts wore 'coronets' (in capite coronati)."--H.
C.]

NOTE 4.--["The accounts given by Marco Polo regarding the feasts of the Khan and the festival
dresses at his Court, agree perfectly with the statements on the same subject of contemporary
Chinese writers. Banquets were called in the common Mongol language chama, and festival dresses
chisun. General festivals used to be held at the New Year and at the Birthday of the Khan.
In the Mongol-Chinese Code, the ceremonies performed in the provinces on the Khan's Birthday
are described. One month before that day the civil and military officers repaired to a temple,
where a service was performed to the Khan's health. On the morning of the Birthday a sumptuously
adorned table was placed in the open air, and the representatives of all classes and all confessions
were obliged to approach the table, to prostrate themselves and exclaim three times: Wan-sui
(i.e. 'Ten thousand years' life to the Khan). After that the banquet took place. In the same
code (in the article on the Ye li ke un [Christians, Erke-un]) it is stated, that in the year
1304,--owing to a dispute, which had arisen in the province of Kiang-nan between the ho-shang
(Buddhist priests) and the Christian missionaries, as to precedence in the above-mentioned
ceremony,--a special edict was published, in which it was decided that in the rite of supplication,
Christians should follow the Buddhist and Taouist priests." (Palladius, pp. 44-45.)--H. C.]

[1] There are thirteen months to the Chinese year in seven out of every
    nineteen.

    ["This interval of 10 years comprises 235 lunar months, generally 125
    long months of 30 days 110 short months of 29 days, (but sometimes
    124 long and 111 short months), and 7 intercalary months. The
    year of twelve months is called a common year, that of thirteen
    months, an intercalary year." (P. Hoang, Chinese Calendar, p. 12.
    --H. C.)]

CHAPTER XV.

OF THE GREAT FESTIVAL WHICH THE KAAN HOLDS ON NEW YEAR'S DAY.

The beginning of their New Year is the month of February, and on that occasion the Great Kaan
and all his subjects made such a Feast as I now shall describe.

It is the custom that on this occasion the Kaan and all his subjects should be clothed entirely
in white; so, that day, everybody is in white, men and women, great and small. And this is
done in order that they may thrive all through the year, for they deem that white clothing
is lucky.[NOTE 1] On that day also all the people of all the provinces and governments and
kingdoms and countries that own allegiance to the Kaan bring him great presents of gold and
silver, and pearls and gems, and rich textures of divers kinds. And this they do that the Emperor
throughout the year may have abundance of treasure and enjoyment without care. And the people
also make presents to each other of white things, and embrace and kiss and make merry, and
wish each other happiness and good luck for the coming year. On that day, I can assure you,
among the customary presents there shall be offered to the Kaan from various quarters more
than 100,000 white horses, beautiful animals, and richly caparisoned. [And you must know 'tis
their custom in offering presents to the Great Kaan (at least when the province making the
present is able to do so), to present nine times nine articles. For instance, if a province
sends horses, it sends nine times nine or 81 horses; of gold, nine times nine pieces of gold,
and so with stuffs or whatever else the present may consist of.][NOTE 2]

On that day also, the whole of the Kaan's elephants, amounting fully to 5000 in number, are
exhibited, all covered with rich and gay housings of inlaid cloth representing beasts and birds,
whilst each of them carries on his back two splendid coffers; all of these being filled with
the Emperor's plate and other costly furniture required for the Court on the occasion of the
White Feast.[NOTE 3] And these are followed by a vast number of camels which are likewise covered
with rich housings and laden with things needful for the Feast. All these are paraded before
the Emperor, and it makes the finest sight in the world.

Moreover, on the morning of the Feast, before the tables are set, all the Kings, and all the
Dukes, Marquesses, Counts, Barons, Knights, and Astrologers, and Philosophers, and Leeches,
and Falconers, and other officials of sundry kinds from all the places round about, present
themselves in the Great Hall before the Emperor; whilst those who can find no room to enter
stand outside in such a position that the Emperor can see them all well. And the whole company
is marshalled in this wise. First are the Kaan's sons, and his nephews, and the other Princes
of the Blood Imperial; next to them all Kings; then Dukes, and then all others in succession
according to the degree of each. And when they are all seated, each in his proper place, then
a great prelate rises and says with a loud voice: "Bow and adore!" And as soon as he has said
this, the company bow down until their foreheads touch the earth in adoration towards the Emperor
as if he were a god. And this adoration they repeat four times, and then go to a highly decorated
altar, on which is a vermilion tablet with the name of the Grand Kaan inscribed thereon, and
a beautiful censer of gold. So they incense the tablet and the altar with great reverence,
and then return each man to his seat.[NOTE 4]

When all have performed this, then the presents are offered, of which I have spoken as being
so rich and costly. And after all have been offered and been seen by the Emperor, the tables
are set, and all take their places at them with perfect order as I have already told you. And
after dinner the jugglers come in and amuse the Court as you have heard before; and when that
is over, every man goes to his quarters.

NOTE 1.--The first month of the year is still called by the Mongols Chaghan or Chaghan Sara,
"the White" or the "White Month"; and the wearing of white clothing on this festive occasion
must have been purely a Mongol custom. For when Shah Rukh's ambassadors were present at the
New Year's Feast at the Court of the succeeding Chinese Dynasty (2nd February, 1421) they were
warned that no one must wear white, as that among the Chinese was the colour of mourning. (Koeppen,
I. 574, II. 309; Cathay, p. ccvii.)

NOTE 2.--On the mystic importance attached to the number 9 on all such occasions among the
Mongols, see Hammer's Golden Horde, p. 208; Hayton, ch. iii. in Ramusio II.; Not. et Ext. XIV.
Pt. I. 32; and Strahlenberg (II. 210 of Amsterd. ed. 1757). Vámbéry, speaking of the Kálín
or marriage price among the Uzbegs, says: "The question is always how many times nine sheep,
cows, camels, or horses, or how many times nine ducats (as is the custom in a town), the father
is to receive for giving up his daughter." (Sketches of Cent. Asia, p. 103.) Sheikh Ibrahim
of Darband, making offerings to Timur, presented nines of everything else, but of slaves eight
only. "Where is the ninth?" enquired the court official. "Who but I myself?" said the Sheikh,
and so won the heart of Timur. (A. Arabsiadis ... Timuri Hist. p. 357.)

NOTE 3.--The elephant stud of the Son of Heaven had dwindled till in 1862 Dr. Rennie found
but one animal; now none remain. [Dr. S. W. Williams writes (Middle Kingdom, I. pp. 323-324):
"Elephants are kept at Peking for show, and are used to draw the state chariot when the Emperor
goes to worship at the Altars of Heaven and Earth, but the sixty animals seen in the days of
Kienlung, by Bell, have since dwindled to one or two. Van Braam met six going into Peking,
sent thither from Yun-Nan." These were no doubt carrying tribute from Burmah.--H. C.] It is
worth noticing that the housings of cut cloth or appliqué work ("draps entaillez") are still
in fashion in India for the caparison of elephants.

NOTE 4.--In 1263 Kúblái adopted the Chinese fashion of worshipping the tablets of his own ancestors,
and probably at the same time the adoration of his own tablet by his subjects was introduced.
Van Braam ingenuously relates how he and the rest of the Dutch Legation of 1794 performed the
adoration of the Emperor's Tablet on first entering China, much in the way described in the text.

There is a remarkable amplification in the last paragraph of the chapter as given by Ramusio:
"When all are in their proper places, a certain great personage, or high prelate as it were,
gets up and says with a loud voice: 'Bow yourselves and adore!' On this immediately all bend
and bow the forehead to the ground. Then the prelate says again: 'God save and keep our Lord
the Emperor, with length of years and with mirth and happiness.' And all answer: 'So may it
be!' And then again the prelate says: 'May God increase and augment his Empire and its prosperity
more and more, and keep all his subjects in peace and goodwill, and may all things go well
throughout his Dominion!' And all again respond: 'So may it be!' And this adoration is repeated
four times."

One of Pauthier's most interesting notes is a long extract from the official Directory of Ceremonial
under the Mongol Dynasty, which admirably illustrates the chapters we have last read. I borrow
a passage regarding this adoration: "The Musician's Song having ceased, the Ministers shall
recite with a loud voice the following Prayer: 'Great Heaven, that extendest over all! Earth
which art under the guidance of Heaven! We invoke You and beseech You to heap blessings upon
the Emperor and the Empress! Grant that they may live ten thousand, a hundred thousand years!'

"Then the first Chamberlain shall respond: 'May it be as the prayer hath said!' The Ministers
shall then prostrate themselves, and when they rise return to their places, and take a cup
or two of wine."

The K'o-tow (Khéu-théu) which appears repeatedly in this ceremonial and which in our text is
indicated by the four prostrations, was, Pauthier alleges, not properly a Chinese form, but
only introduced by the Mongols. Baber indeed speaks of it as the Kornish, a Moghul ceremony,
in which originally "the person who performed it kneeled nine times and touched the earth with
his brow each time." He describes it as performed very elaborately (nine times twice) by his
younger uncle in visiting the elder. But in its essentials the ceremony must have been of old
date at the Chinese Court; for the Annals of the Thang Dynasty, in a passage cited by M. Pauthier
himself,[1] mention that ambassadors from the famous Hárún ar Rashíd in 798 had to perform
the "ceremony of kneeling and striking the forehead against the ground." And M. Pauthier can
scarcely be right in saying that the practice was disused by the Ming Dynasty and only reintroduced
by the Manchus; for in the story of Shah Rukh's embassy the performance of the K'o-tow occurs
repeatedly.

["It is interesting to note," writes Mr. Rockhill (Rubruck, p. 22), "that in A.D. 981 the Chinese
Envoy, Wang Yen-tê, sent to the Uigur Prince of Kao-chang, refused to make genuflexions (pai)
to him, as being contrary to the established usages as regards envoys. The prince and his family,
however, on receiving the envoy, all faced eastward (towards Peking) and made an obeisance
(pai) on receiving the imperial presents (shou-tzu)." (Ma Twan-lin, Bk 336, 13.)--H. C.]

(Gaubil, 142; Van Braam, I. 20-21; Baber, 106; N. et E. XIV. Pt. I. 405, 407, 418.)

The enumeration of four prostrations in the text is, I fancy, quite correct. There are several
indications that this number was used instead of the three times three of later days. Thus
Carpini, when introduced to the Great Kaan, "bent the left knee four times." And in the Chinese
bridal ceremony of "Worshipping the Tablets," the genuflexion is made four times. At the court
of Shah Abbas an obeisance evidently identical was repeated four times. (Carp. 759; Doolittle,
p. 60; P. Della Valle, I. 646.)

[1] Gaubil, cited in Pauthier's Hist. des Relations Politiques de la
    Chine, etc., p. 226.

Now you must know that the Great Kaan hath set apart 12,000 of his men who are distinguished
by the name of Keshican, as I have told you before; and on each of these 12,000 Barons he bestows
thirteen changes of raiment, which are all different from one another: I mean that in one set
the 12,000 are all of one colour; the next 12,000 of another colour, and so on; so that they
are of thirteen different colours. These robes are garnished with gems and pearls and other
precious things in a very rich and costly manner.[NOTE 1] And along with each of these changes
of raiment, i.e. 13 times in the year, he bestows on each of those 12,000 Barons a fine golden
girdle of great richness and value, and likewise a pair of boots of Camut, that is to say of
Borgal, curiously wrought with silver thread; insomuch that when they are clothed in these
dresses every man of them looks like a king![NOTE 2] And there is an established order as to
which dress is to be worn at each of those thirteen feasts. The Emperor himself also has his
thirteen suits corresponding to those of his Barons; in colour, I mean (though his are grander,
richer, and costlier), so that he is always arrayed in the same colour as his Barons, who are,
as it were, his comrades. And you may see that all this costs an amount which it is scarcely
possible to calculate.

Now I have told you of the thirteen changes of raiment received from the Prince by those 12,000
Barons, amounting in all to 156,000 suits of so great cost and value, to say nothing of the
girdles and the boots which are also worth a great sum of money. All this the Great Lord hath
ordered, that he may attach the more of grandeur and dignity to his festivals.

And now I must mention another thing that I had forgotten, but which you will be astonished
to learn from this Book. You must know that on the Feast Day a great Lion is led to the Emperor's
presence, and as soon as it sees him it lies down before him with every sign of the greatest
veneration, as if it acknowledged him for its lord; and it remains there lying before him,
and entirely unchained. Truly this must seem a strange story to those who have not seen the
thing![NOTE 3]

NOTE 1.--On the Keshican, see note 1 to chap. xii., and on the changes of raiment note 3 to
chap. xiv., and the remarks there as to the number of distributions. I confess that the stress
laid upon the number 13 in this chapter makes the supposition of error more difficult. But
there is something odd and unintelligible about the whole of the chapter except the last paragraph.
For the 12,000 Keshican are here all elevated to Barons; and at the same time the statement
about their changes of raiment seems to be merely that already made in chapter xiv. This repetition
occurs only in the French MSS., but as it is in all these we cannot reject it.

NOTE 2.--The words Camut and Borgal appear both to be used here for what we call Russia-Leather.
The latter word in one form or another, Bolghár, Borgháli, or Bulkál, is the term applied to
that material to this day nearly all over Asia. Ibn Batuta says that in travelling during winter
from Constantinople to the Wolga he had to put on three pairs of boots, one of wool (which
we should call stockings), a second of wadded linen, and a third of Borgháli, "i.e. of horse-leather
lined with wolf-skin." Horse-leather seems to be still the favourite material for boots among
all the Tartar nations. The name was undoubtedly taken from Bolghar on the Wolga, the people
of which are traditionally said to have invented the art of preparing skins in that manner.
This manufacture is still one of the staple trades of Kazan, the city which in position and
importance is the nearest representative of Bolghar now.

Camut is explained by Klaproth to be "leather made from the back-skin of a camel." It appears
in Johnson's Persian Dictionary as Kámú, but I do not know from what language it originally
comes. The word is in the Latin column of the Petrarchian Vocabulary with the Persian rendering
Sagri. This shows us what is meant, for Saghrí is just our word Shagreen, and is applied to
a fine leather granulated in that way, which is much used for boots and the like by the people
of Central Asia. [In Turkish saghri or saghri is the name both for the buttocks of a horse
and the leather called shagreen prepared with them. (See Devic, Dict. Étym.)--H. C.] In the
commercial lists of our Indian north-west frontier we find as synonymous Saghri or Kímukht,
"Horse or Ass-hide." No doubt this latter word is a form of Kámú or Camut. It appears (as Keimukht,
"a sort of leather") in a detail of imports to Aden given by Ibn al Wardi, a geographer of
the 13th century.

Instead of Camut, Ramusio has Camoscia, i.e. Chamois, and the same seems to be in all the editions
based on Fra Pipino's version. It may be a misrendering of camutum or camutium; or is there
any real connexion between the Oriental Kámú Kímukht, and the Italian camoscia? (I. B. II.
445; Klapr. Mém. vol. III.; Davies's Trade Report, App. p. ccxx.; Vámbéry's Travels, 423; Not.
et Ext. II. 43.)

Fraehn (writing in 1832) observes that he knew no use of the word Bolghár, in the sense of
Russian leather, older than the 17th century. But we see that both Marco and Ibn Batuta use
it. (F. on the Wolga Bulghars, pp. 8-9.)

Pauthier in a note (p. 285) gives a list of the garments issued to certain officials on these
ceremonial occasions under the Mongols, and sure enough this list includes "pairs of boots
in red leather." Odoric particularly mentions the broad golden girdles worn at the Kaan's court.

[La Curne, Dict., has Bulga, leather bag; old Gallic word from which are derived bouge et bougete,
bourse; he adds in a note, "Festus writes: 'Bulgas galli sacculos scorteos vocant.'"--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--"Then come mummers leading lions, which they cause to salute the Lord with reverence."
(Odoric, p. 143.) A lion sent by Mirza Baisangar, one of the Princes of Timur's House, accompanied
Shah Rukh's embassy as a present to the Emperor; and like presents were frequently repeated.
(See Amyot, XIV. 37, 38.)

CHAPTER XVII.

HOW THE GREAT KAAN ENJOINETH HIS PEOPLE TO SUPPLY HIM WITH GAME.

The three months of December, January, and February, during which the Emperor resides at his
Capital City, are assigned for hunting and fowling, to the extent of some 40 days' journey
round the city; and it is ordained that the larger game taken be sent to the Court. To be more
particular: of all the larger beasts of the chase, such as boars, roebucks, bucks, stags, lions,
bears, etc., the greater part of what is taken has to be sent, and feathered game likewise.
The animals are gutted and despatched to the Court on carts. This is done by all the people
within 20 or 30 days' journey, and the quantity so despatched is immense. Those at a greater
distance cannot send the game, but they have to send the skins after tanning them, and these
are employed in the making of equipments for the Emperor's army.[NOTE 1]

NOTE 1.--So Magaillans: "Game is so abundant, especially at the capital, that every year during
the three winter months you see at different places, intended for despatch thither, besides
great piles of every sort of wildfowl, rows of four-footed game of a gunshot or two in length:
the animals being all frozen and standing on their feet. Among other species you see three
sundry kinds of bears ... and great abundance of other animals, as stags and deer of different
sorts, boars, elks, hares, rabbits, squirrels, wild-cats, rats, geese, ducks, very fine jungle-fowl,
etc., and all so cheap that I never could have believed it" (pp. 177-178). As this writer mentions
wild-cats, we may presume that the "lions" of Polo also were destined to be eaten.

["Kubilai Khan kept a whole army, 14,000 men, huntsmen, distributed in Peking and other cities
in the present province of Chili (Yuen-shi). The Khan used to hunt in the Peking plain from
the beginning of spring, until his departure to Shang-tu. There are in the Peking department
many low and marshy places, stretching often to a considerable extent and abounding in game.
In the biography of Ai-sie (Yuen shi, chap. cxxxiv.), who was a Christian, it is mentioned
that Kubilai was hunting also in the department of Pao-ting fu." (Palladius, p. 45.)--H. C.]

CHAPTER XVIII.

OF THE LIONS AND LEOPARDS AND WOLVES THAT THE KAAN KEEPS FOR THE CHASE.

The Emperor hath numbers of leopards[NOTE 1] trained to the chase, and hath also a great many
lynxes taught in like manner to catch game, and which afford excellent sport.[NOTE 2] He hath
also several great Lions, bigger than those of Babylonia, beasts whose skins are coloured in
the most beautiful way, being striped all along the sides with black, red, and white. These
are trained to catch boars and wild cattle, bears, wild asses, stags, and other great or fierce
beasts. And 'tis a rare sight, I can tell you, to see those lions giving chase to such beasts
as I have mentioned! When they are to be so employed the Lions are taken out in a covered cart,
and every Lion has a little doggie with him. [They are obliged to approach the game against
the wind, otherwise the animals would scent the approach of the Lion and be off.][NOTE 3]

There are also a great number of eagles, all broken to catch wolves, foxes, deer, and wild
goats, and they do catch them in great numbers. But those especially that are trained to wolf-catching
are very large and powerful birds, and no wolf is able to get away from them.[NOTE 4]

NOTE 1.--The Cheeta or Hunting-Leopard, still kept for the chase by native noblemen in India,
is an animal very distinct from the true leopard. It is much more lanky and long-legged than
the pure felines, is unable to climb trees, and has claws only partially retractile. Wood calls
it a link between the feline and canine races. One thousand Cheetas were attached to Akbar's
hunting establishment; and the chief one, called Semend-Manik, was carried to the field in
a palankin with a kettledrum beaten before him. Boldensel in the first half of the 14th century
speaks of the Cheeta as habitually used in Cyprus; but, indeed, a hundred years before, these
animals had been constantly employed by the Emperor Frederic II. in Italy, and accompanied
him on all his marches. They were introduced into France in the latter part of the 15th century,
and frequently employed by Lewis XI., Charles VIII., and Lewis XII. The leopards were kept
in a ditch of the Castle of Amboise, and the name still borne by a gate hard by, Porte des
Lions, is supposed to be due to that circumstance. The Moeurs et Usages du Moyen Age (Lacroix),
from which I take the last facts, gives copy of a print by John Stradanus representing a huntsman
with the leopard on his horse's crupper, like Kúblái's (supra, Bk. I. ch. lxi.); Frederic II.
used to say of his Cheetas, "they knew how to ride." This way of taking the Cheeta to the field
had been first employed by the Khalif Yazid, son of Moáwiyah. The Cheeta often appears in the
pattern of silk damasks of the 13th and 14th centuries, both Asiatic and Italian. (Ayeen Akbery,
I. 304, etc.; Boldensel, in Canisii Thesaurus, by Basnage, vol. IV. p. 339; Kington's Fred.
II. I. 472, II. 156; Bochart, Hierozoica, 797; Rock's Catalogue, passim.)

[The hunting equipment of the Sultan consisted of about thirty falconers on horseback who carried
each a bird on his fist. These falconers were in front of seven horsemen, who had behind a
kind of tamed tiger at times employed by His Highness for hare-hunting, notwithstanding what
may be said to the contrary by those who are inclined not to believe the fact. It is a thing
known by everybody here, and cannot be doubted except by those who admit that they believe
nothing of foreign customs. These tigers were each covered with a brocade cloth--and their
peaceful attitude, added to their ferocious and savage looks, caused at the same time astonishment
and fear in the soul of those whom they looked upon. (Journal d'Antoine Galland, trad. par
Ch. Schefer, I. p. 135.) The Cheeta (Gueparda jubata) was, according to Sir W. Jones, first
employed in hunting antelopes by Hushing, King of Persia, 865 B.C.--H. C.]

NOTE 2.--The word rendered Lynxes is Leu cervers (G. Text), Louz serviers of Pauthier's MS.
C, though he has adopted from another Loups simply, which is certainly wrong. The Geog. Latin
has "Linceos i.e. lupos cerverios." There is no doubt that the Loup-cervier is the Lynx. Thus
Brunetto Latini, describing the Loup-cervier, speaks of its remarkable powers of vision, and
refers to its agency in the production of the precious stone called Liguire (i.e. Ligurium),
which the ancients fancied to come from Lync-urium; the tale is in Theophrastus). Yet the quaint
Bestiary of Philip de Thaun, published by Mr. Wright, identifies it with the Greek Hyena:--

  "Hyena e Griu num, que nus beste apellum,
  Ceo est Lucervere, oler fait et mult est fere."

[The Abbé Armand David writes (Missions Cathol. XXI. 1889, p. 227) that there is in China,
from the mountains of Manchuria to the mountains of Tibet, a lynx called by the Chinese T'u-pao
(earth-coloured panther); a lynx somewhat similar to the loup-cervier is found on the western
border of China, and has been named Lyncus Desgodinsi.--H. C.]

Hunting Lynxes were used at the Court of Akbar. They are also mentioned by A. Hamilton as so
used in Sind at the end of the 17th century. This author calls the animal a Shoe-goose! i.e.
Siya-gosh (Black-ear), the Persian name of the Lynx. It is still occasionally used in the chase
by natives of rank in India. (Brunetto Lat. Tresor, p. 248; Popular Treatises on Science written
during Mid. Ages, 94; Ayeen Akbery, u.s.; Hamilt. E. Indies, I. 125; Vigne, I. 42.)

NOTE 3.--The conception of a Tiger seems almost to have dropped out of the European mind during
the Middle Ages. Thus in a mediaeval Bestiary, a chapter on the Tiger begins: "Une Beste est
qui est apelée Tigre c'est une manière de Serpent." Hence Polo can only call the Tigers, whose
portrait he draws here not incorrectly, Lions. So also nearly 200 years later Barbaro gives
a like portrait, and calls the animal Leonza. Marsden supposes judiciously that the confusion
may have been promoted by the ambiguity of the Persian Sher.

The Chinese pilgrim, Sung-Yun (A.D. 518), saw two young lions at the Court of Gandhára. He
remarks that the pictures of these animals common in China, were not at all good likenesses.
(Beal, p. 200.)

We do not hear in modern times of Tigers trained to the chase, but Chardin says of Persia:
"In hunting the larger animals they make use of beasts of prey trained for the purpose, lions,
leopards, tigers, panthers, ounces."

NOTE 4.--This is perfectly correct. In Eastern Turkestan, and among the Kirghiz to this day,
eagles termed Búrgút (now well known to be the Golden Eagle) are tamed and trained to fly at
wolves, foxes, deer, wild goats, etc. A Kirghiz will give a good horse for an eagle in which
he recognises capacity for training. Mr. Atkinson gives vivid descriptions and illustrations
of this eagle (which he calls "Bear coote"), attacking both deer and wolves. He represents
the bird as striking one claw into the neck, and the other into the back of its large prey,
and then tearing out the liver with its beak. In justice both to Marco Polo and to Mr. Atkinson,
I have pleasure in adding a vivid account of the exploits of this bird, as witnessed by one
of my kind correspondents, the Governor-General's late envoy to Kashgar. And I trust Sir Douglas
Forsyth will pardon my quoting his own letter just as it stands[1]:--"Now for a story of the
Burgoot--Atkinson's 'Bearcoote.' I think I told you it was the Golden Eagle and supposed to
attack wolves and even bears. One day we came across a wild hog of enormous size, far bigger
than any that gave sport to the Tent Club in Bengal. The Burgoot was immediately let loose,
and went straight at the hog, which it kicked, and flapped with its wings, and utterly flabbergasted,
whilst our Kashgaree companions attacked him with sticks and brought him to the ground. As
Friar Odoric would say, I, T. D. F., have seen this with mine own eyes."--Shaw describes the
rough treatment with which the Búrgút is tamed. Baber, when in the Bajaur Hills, notices in
his memoirs: "This day Búrgút took a deer." (Timkowski, I. 414; Levchine, p. 77; Pallas, Voyages,
I. 421; J. R. A. S. VII. 305; Atkinson's Siberia, 493; and Amoor, 146-147; Shaw, p. 157; Baber,
p. 249.)

[The Golden Eagle (Aquila chrysaetus) is called at Peking Hoy tiao (black eagle). (David et
Oustalet, Oiseaux de la Chine, p. 8.)--H. C.]

[1] Dated Yangi Hissar, 10th April, 1874.

CHAPTER XIX.

CONCERNING THE TWO BROTHERS WHO HAVE CHARGE OF THE KAAN'S HOUNDS.

The Emperor hath two Barons who are own brothers, one called Baian and the other Mingan; and
these two are styled Chinuchi (or Cunichi), which is as much as to say, "The Keepers of the
Mastiff Dogs."[NOTE 1] Each of these brothers hath 10,000 men under his orders; each body of
10,000 being dressed alike, the one in red and the other in blue, and whenever they accompany
the Lord to the chase, they wear this livery, in order to be recognized. Out of each body of
10,000 there are 2000 men who are each in charge of one or more great mastiffs, so that the
whole number of these is very large. And when the Prince goes a-hunting, one of those Barons,
with his 10,000 men and something like 5000 dogs, goes towards the right, whilst the other
goes towards the left with his party in like manner. They move along, all abreast of one another,
so that the whole line extends over a full day's journey, and no animal can escape them. Truly
it is a glorious sight to see the working of the dogs and the huntsmen on such an occasion!
And as the Lord rides a-fowling across the plains, you will see these big hounds coming tearing
up, one pack after a bear, another pack after a stag, or some other beast, as it may hap, and
running the game down now on this side and now on that, so that it is really a most delightful
sport and spectacle.

[The Two Brothers I have mentioned are bound by the tenure of their office to supply the Kaan's
Court from October to the end of March with 1000 head of game daily, whether of beasts or birds,
and not counting quails; and also with fish to the best of their ability, allowing fish enough
for three persons to reckon as equal to one head of game.]

Now I have told you of the Masters of the Hounds and all about them, and next will I tell you
how the Lord goes off on an expedition for the space of three months.

NOTE 1.--Though this particular Bayan and Mingan are not likely to be mentioned in history,
the names are both good Mongol names; Bayan that of a great soldier under Kúblái, of whom we
shall hear afterwards; and Mingan that of one of Chinghiz's generals.

The title of "Master of the Mastiffs" belonged to a high Court official at Constantinople in
former days, Sámsúnji Báshi, and I have no doubt Marco has given the exact interpretation of
the title of the two Barons: though it is difficult to trace its elements. It is read variously
Cunici (i.e. Kunichi) and Cinuci (i.e. Chinuchi). It is evidently a word of analogous structure
to Kushchi, the Master of the Falcons; Parschi, the Master of the Leopards. Professor Schiefner
thinks it is probably corrupted from Noghaichi, which appears in Kovalevski's Mongol Dict.
as "chaesseur qui a soins des chiens courants." This word occurs, he points out, in Sanang
Setzen, where Schmidt translates it Aufseher über Hunde. (See S. S. p. 39.)

The metathesis of Noghai-chi into Kuni-chi is the only drawback to this otherwise apt solution.
We generally shall find Polo's Oriental words much more accurately expressed than this would
imply--as in the next chapter. I have hazarded a suggestion of (Or. Turkish) Chong-lt-chi,
"Keeper of the Big Dogs," which Professor Vámbéry thinks possible. (See "chong, big, strong,"
in his Tschagataische Sprachstudien, p. 282, and note in Lord Strangford's Selected Writings,
II. 169.) In East Turkestan they call the Chinese Chong Káfir, "The Big Heathen." This would
exactly correspond to the rendering of Pipino's Latin translation, "hoc est canum magnorum
Praefecti." Chinuchi again would be (in Mongol) "Wolf-keepers." It is at least possible that
the great dogs which Polo terms mastiffs may have been known by such a name. We apply the term
Wolf- dog to several varieties, and in Macbeth's enumeration we have--

  ----"Hounds, and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs,
  Shoughs, water rugs, and Demi-Wolves."

Lastly the root-word may be the Chinese Kiuen "dog," as Pauthier says. The mastiffs were probably
Tibetan, but may have come through China, and brought a name with them, like Boule-dogues in
France.

[Palladius (p. 46) says that Chinuchi or Cunici "have no resemblance with any of the names
found in the Yuen shi, ch. xcix., article Ping chi (military organisation), and relating to
the hunting staff of the Khan, viz.: Si pao ch'i (falconers), Ho r ch'i (archers), and Ke lien
ch'i (probably those who managed the hounds)."--H. C.]

CHAPTER XX.

HOW THE EMPEROR GOES ON A HUNTING EXPEDITION.

After he has stopped at his capital city those three months that I mentioned, to wit, December,
January, February, he starts off on the 1st day of March, and travels southward towards the
Ocean Sea, a journey of two days.[NOTE 1] He takes with him full 10,000 falconers, and some
500 gerfalcons besides peregrines, sakers, and other hawks in great numbers; and goshawks also
to fly at the water-fowl.[NOTE 2] But do not suppose that he keeps all these together by him;
they are distributed about, hither and thither, one hundred together, or two hundred at the
utmost, as he thinks proper. But they are always fowling as they advance, and the most part
of the quarry taken is carried to the Emperor. And let me tell you when he goes thus a-fowling
with his gerfalcons and other hawks, he is attended by full 10,000 men who are disposed in
couples; and these are called Toscaol, which is as much as to say, "Watchers." And the name
describes their business.[NOTE 3] They are posted from spot to spot, always in couples, and
thus they cover a great deal of ground! Every man of them is provided with a whistle and hood,
so as to be able to call in a hawk and hold it in hand. And when the Emperor makes a cast,
there is no need that he follow it up, for those men I speak of keep so good a look out that
they never lose sight of the birds, and if these have need of help they are ready to render it.

All the Emperor's hawks, and those of the Barons as well, have a little label attached to the
leg to mark them, on which is written the names of the owner and the keeper of the bird. And
in this way the hawk, when caught, is at once identified and handed over to its owner. But
if not, the bird is carried to a certain Baron, who is styled the Bularguchi, which is as much
as to say "The Keeper of Lost Property." And I tell you that whatever may be found without
a known owner, whether it be a horse, or a sword, or a hawk, or what not, it is carried to
that Baron straightway, and he takes charge of it. And if the finder neglects to carry his
trover to the Baron, the latter punishes him. Likewise the loser of any article goes to the
Baron, and if the thing be in his hands it is immediately given up to the owner. Moreover,
the said Baron always pitches on the highest spot of the camp, with his banner displayed, in
order that those who have lost or found anything may have no difficulty in finding their way
to him. Thus nothing can be lost but it shall be incontinently found and restored.[NOTE 4]

And so the Emperor follows this road that I have mentioned, leading along in the vicinity of
the Ocean Sea (which is within two days' journey of his capital city, Cambaluc), and as he
goes there is many a fine sight to be seen, and plenty of the very best entertainment in hawking;
in fact, there is no sport in the world to equal it!

The Emperor himself is carried upon four elephants in a fine chamber made of timber, lined
inside with plates of beaten gold, and outside with lions' skins [for he always travels in
this way on his fowling expeditions, because he is troubled with gout]. He always keeps beside
him a dozen of his choicest gerfalcons, and is attended by several of his Barons, who ride
on horseback alongside. And sometimes, as they may be going along, and the Emperor from his
chamber is holding discourse with the Barons, one of the latter shall exclaim: "Sire! Look
out for Cranes!" Then the Emperor instantly has the top of his chamber thrown open, and having
marked the cranes he casts one of his gerfalcons, whichever he pleases; and often the quarry
is struck within his view, so that he has the most exquisite sport and diversion, there as
he sits in his chamber or lies on his bed; and all the Barons with him get the enjoyment of
it likewise! So it is not without reason I tell you that I do not believe there ever existed
in the world or ever will exist, a man with such sport and enjoyment as he has, or with such
rare opportunities.[NOTE 5]

And when he has travelled till he reaches a place called CACHAR MODUN,[NOTE 6] there he finds
his tents pitched, with the tents of his Sons, and his Barons, and those of his Ladies and
theirs, so that there shall be full 10,000 tents in all, and all fine and rich ones. And I
will tell you how his own quarters are disposed. The tent in which he holds his courts is large
enough to give cover easily to a thousand souls. It is pitched with its door to the south,
and the Barons and Knights remain in waiting in it, whilst the Lord abides in another close
to it on the west side. When he wishes to speak with any one he causes the person to be summoned
to that other tent. Immediately behind the great tent there is a fine large chamber where the
Lord sleeps; and there are also many other tents and chambers, but they are not in contact
with the Great Tent as these are. The two audience-tents and the sleeping-chamber are constructed
in this way. Each of the audience-tents has three poles, which are of spice-wood, and are most
artfully covered with lions' skins, striped with black and white and red, so that they do not
suffer from any weather. All three apartments are also covered outside with similar skins of
striped lions, a substance that lasts for ever.[NOTE 7] And inside they are all lined with
ermine and sable, these two being the finest and most costly furs in existence. For a robe
of sable, large enough to line a mantle, is worth 2000 bezants of gold, or 1000 at least, and
this kind of skin is called by the Tartars "The King of Furs." The beast itself is about the
size of a marten.[NOTE 8] These two furs of which I speak are applied and inlaid so exquisitely,
that it is really something worth seeing. All the tent-ropes are of silk. And in short I may
say that those tents, to wit the two audience-halls and the sleeping-chamber, are so costly
that it is not every king could pay for them.

Round about these tents are others, also fine ones and beautifully pitched, in which are the
Emperor's ladies, and the ladies of the other princes and officers. And then there are the
tents for the hawks and their keepers, so that altogether the number of tents there on the
plain is something wonderful. To see the many people that are thronging to and fro on every
side and every day there, you would take the camp for a good big city. For you must reckon
the Leeches, and the Astrologers, and the Falconers, and all the other attendants on so great
a company; and add that everybody there has his whole family with him, for such is their custom.

The Lord remains encamped there until the spring, and all that time he does nothing but go
hawking round about among the canebrakes along the lakes and rivers that abound in that region,
and across fine plains on which are plenty of cranes and swans, and all sorts of other fowl.
The other gentry of the camp also are never done with hunting and hawking, and every day they
bring home great store of venison and feathered game of all sorts. Indeed, without having witnessed
it, you would never believe what quantities of game are taken, and what marvellous sport and
diversion they all have whilst they are in camp there.

There is another thing I should mention; to wit, that for 20 days' journey round the spot nobody
is allowed, be he who he may, to keep hawks or hounds, though anywhere else whosoever list
may keep them. And furthermore throughout all the Emperor's territories, nobody however audacious
dares to hunt any of these four animals, to wit, hare, stag, buck, and roe, from the month
of March to the month of October. Anybody who should do so would rue it bitterly. But those
people are so obedient to their Lord's command, that even if a man were to find one of those
animals asleep by the roadside he would not touch it for the world! And thus the game multiplies
at such a rate that the whole country swarms with it, and the Emperor gets as much as he could
desire. Beyond the term I have mentioned, however, to wit that from March to October, everybody
may take these animals as he list.[NOTE 9]

After the Emperor has tarried in that place, enjoying his sport as I have related, from March
to the middle of May, he moves with all his people, and returns straight to his capital city
of Cambaluc (which is also the capital of Cathay, as you have been told), but all the while
continuing to take his diversion in hunting and hawking as he goes along.

NOTE 1.--"Vait vers midi jusques à la Mer Occeane, ou il y a deux journées." It is not possible
in any way to reconcile this description as it stands with truth, though I do not see much
room for doubt as to the direction of the excursion. Peking is 100 miles as the crow flies
from the nearest point of the coast, at least six or seven days' march for such a camp, and
the direction is south-east, or nearly so. The last circumstance would not be very material
as Polo's compass-bearings are not very accurate. We shall find that he makes the general line
of bearing from Peking towards Kiangnan, Sciloc or S. East, hence his Midi ought in consistency
to represent S. West, an impossible direction for the Ocean. It is remarkable that Ramusio
has Greco or N. East, which would by the same relative correction represent East. And other
circumstances point to the frontier of Liao-tong as the direction of this excursion. Leaving
the two days out of question, therefore, I should suppose the "Ocean Sea" to be struck at Shan-hai-kwan
near the terminus of the Great Wall, and that the site of the standing hunting-camp is in the
country to the north of that point. The Jesuit Verbiest accompanied the Emperor Kanghi on a
tour in this direction in 1682, and almost immediately after passing the Wall the Emperor and
his party seem to have struck off to the left for sport. Kúblái started on the "1st of March,"
probably however the 1st of the second Chinese month. Kanghi started from Peking on the 23rd
of March, on the hunting-journey just referred to.

NOTE 2.--We are told that Bajazet had 7000 falconers and 6000 dog-keepers; whilst Sultan Mahomed
Tughlak of India in the generation following Polo's, is said to have had 10,000 falconers,
and 3000 other attendants as beaters. (Not. et Ext. XIII. p. 185.)

The Oriental practice seems to have assigned one man to the attendance on every hawk. This
Kaempfer says was the case at the Court of Persia at the beginning of last century. There were
about 800 hawks, and each had a special keeper. The same was the case with the Emperor Kanghi's
hawking establishment, according to Gerbillon. (Am. Exot. p. 83; Gerb. 1st Journey, in Duhalde.)

NOTE 3.--The French MSS. read Toscaor; the reading in the text I take from Ramusio. It is Turki,
Toskáúl, [Arabic], defined as "Gardien, surveillant de la route; Wächter, Wache, Wegehüter."
(See Zenker, and Pavet de Courteille.) The word is perhaps also Mongol, for Rémusat has Tosiyal
= "Veille." (Mél. As. I. 231.) Such an example of Polo's correctness both in the form and meaning
of a Turki word is worthy of especial note, and shows how little he merits the wild and random
treatment which has been often applied to the solution of like phrases in his book.

[Palladius (p. 47) says that he has heard from men well acquainted with the customs of the
Mongols, that at the present day in "battues," the leaders of the two flanks which surround
the game, are called toscaul in Mongol.--H. C.]

NOTE 4.--The remark in the previous note might be repeated here. The Bularguji was an officer
of the Mongol camp, whose duties are thus described by Mahomed Hindú Shah in a work on the
offices of the Perso- Mongol Court. "He is an officer appointed by the Council of State, who,
at the time when the camp is struck, goes over the ground with his servants, and collects slaves
of either sex, or cattle, such as horses, camels, oxen, and asses, that have been left behind,
and retains them until the owners appear and prove their claim to the property, when he makes
it over to them. The Bularguji sticks up a flag by his tent or hut to enable people to find
him, and so recover their lost property." (Golden Horde, p. 245.) And in the Appendix to that
work (p. 476) there is a copy of a warrant to such a Bularguji or Provost Marshal. The derivation
appears therein as from Bularghu, "Lost property." Here again it was impossible to give both
form and meaning of the word more exactly than Polo has done. Though Hammer writes these terminations
in ji (dschi), I believe chi (tschi) is preferable. We have this same word Bularghu in a grant
of privileges to the Venetians by the Ilkhan Abusaid, 22nd December, 1320, which has been published
by M. Mas Latrie: "Item, se algun cavalo bolargo fosse trovado apreso de algun vostro veneciano,"
etc.--"If any stray horse shall be found in the possession of a Venetian," etc. (See Bibl.
de l'Ecole des Chartes, 1870--tirage à part, p. 26.)

["There are two Mongol terms, which resemble this word Bularguchi, viz. Balagachi and Buluguchi.
But the first was the name used for the door-keeper of the tent of the Khan. By Buluguchi the
Mongols understood a hunter and especially sable hunters. No one of these terms can be made
consistent with the accounts given by M. Polo regarding the Bularguchi. In the Kui sin tsa
shi, written by Chow Mi, in the former part of the 14th century, interesting particulars regarding
Mongol hunting are found." (Palladius, 47.) In chapter 101. Djan-ch'i, of the Yuen-shi, Falconers
are called Ying fang pu lie, and a certain class of the Falconers are termed Bo-lan-ghi. (Bretschneider,
Med. Res. I. p. 188.)--H. C.]

NOTE 5.--A like description is given by Odoric of the mode in which a successor of Kúblái travelled
between Cambaluc and Shangtu, with his falcons also in the chamber beside him. What Kúblái
had adopted as an indulgence to his years and gout, his successors probably followed as a precedent
without these excuses.

[With regard to the gout of Kúblái Khan, Palladius (p. 48) writes: "In the Corean history allusion
is made twice to the Khan's suffering from this disease. Under the year 1267, it is there recorded
that in the 9th month, envoys of the Khan with a letter to the King arrived in Corea. Kubilai
asked for the skin of the Akirho munho, a fish resembling a cow. The envoy was informed that,
as the Khan suffered from swollen feet it would be useful for him to wear boots made of the
skin of this animal, and in the 10th month, the king of Corea forwarded to the Khan seventeen
skins of it. It is further recorded in the Corean history, that in the 8th month of 1292, sorcerers
and Shaman women from Corea were sent at the request of the Khan to cure him of a disease of
the feet and hands. At that time the king of Corea was also in Peking, and the sorcerers and
Shaman women were admitted during an audience the King had of the Khan. They took the Khan's
hands and feet and began to recite exorcisms, whilst Kubilai was laughing."--H. C.]

NOTE 6.--Marsden and Pauthier identify Cachar Modun with Tchakiri Mondou, or Moudon, which
appears in D'Anville's atlas as the title of a "Levée de terre naturelle," in the extreme east
of Manchuria, and in lat. 44°, between the Khinga Lake and the sea. This position is out of
the question. It is more than 900 miles, in a straight line from Peking, and the mere journey
thither and back would have taken Kúblái's camp something like six months. The name Kachar
Modun is probably Mongol, and as Katzar is = "land, region," and Modun = "wood" or "tree,"
a fair interpretation lies on the surface. Such a name indeed has little individuality. But
the Jesuit maps have a Modun Khotan ("Wood-ville") just about the locality supposed, viz. in
the region north of the eastern extremity of the Great Wall.

[Captain Gill writes (River of Golden Sand, I. p. 111): "This country around Urh-Chuang is
admirably described [in Marco Polo, pp. 403, 406], and I should almost imagine that the Kaan
must have set off south-east from Peking, and enjoyed some of his hawking not far from here,
before he travelled to Cachar Modun, wherever that may have been."

"With respect to Cachar Modun, Marco Polo intends perhaps by this name Ho-si wu, which place,
together with Yang-ts'un, were comprised in the general name Ma t'ou (perhaps the Modun of
M. Polo). Ma-t'ou is even now a general term for a jetty in Chinese. Ho-si in the Mongol spelling
was Ha-shin. D'Ohsson, in his translation of Rashid-eddin renders Ho-si by Co-shi (Hist. des
Mongols, I. p. 95), but Rashid in that case speaks not of Ho-si wu, but of the Tangut Empire,
which in Chinese was called Ho-si, meaning west of the (Yellow) River. (See supra, p. 205).
Ho-si wu, as well as Yang-ts'un, both exist even now as villages on the Pei-ho River, and near
the first ancient walls can be seen. Ho-si wu means: 'Custom's barrier west of the (Pei-ho)
river.'" (Palladius, p. 45.) This identification cannot be accepted on account of the position
of Ho-si wu. --H. C.]

NOTE 7.--I suppose the best accessible illustration of the Kaan's great tent may be that in
which the Emperor Kienlung received Lord Macartney in the same region in 1793, of which one
view is given in Staunton's plates. Another exists in the Staunton Collection in the B. M.,
of which I give a reduced sketch.

Kúblái's great tent, after all, was but a fraction of the size of Akbar's audience-tents, the
largest of which held 10,000 people, and took 1000 farráshes a week's work to pitch it, with
machines. But perhaps the manner of holding people is differently estimated. (Aín Akb. 53.)

In the description of the tent-poles, Pauthier's text has "trois coulombes de fust de pieces
moult bien encuierées," etc. The G. T. has "de leing d'especies mout bien curés," etc. The
Crusca, "di spezie molto belle," and Ramusio going off at a tangent, "di legno intagliate con
grandissimo artificio e indorate." I believe the translation in the text to indicate the true
reading. It might mean camphor-wood, or the like. The tent-covering of tiger-skins is illustrated
by a passage in Sanang Setzen, which speaks of a tent covered with panther-skins, sent to Chinghiz
by the Khan of the Solongos (p. 77).

[Grenard (pp. 160-162) gives us his experience of Tents in Central Asia (Khotan). "These Tents
which we had purchased at Tashkent were the 'tentes-abris' which are used in campaign by Russian
military workshops, only we made them larger by a third. They were made of grey Kirghiz felt,
which cannot be procured at Khotan. The felt manufactured in this town not having enough consistency
or solidity, we took Aksu felt, which is better than this of Khotan, though inferior to the
felt of Russian Turkestan. These felt tents are extremely heavy, and, once damp, are dried
with difficulty. These drawbacks are not compensated by any important advantage; it would be
an illusion to believe that they preserve from the cold any better than other tents. In fact,
I prefer the Manchu tent in use in the Chinese army, which is, perhaps, of all military tents
the most practical and comfortable. It is made of a single piece of double cloth of cotton,
very strong, waterproof for a long time, white inside, blue outside, and weighs with its three
tipped sticks and its wooden poles, 25 kilog. Set up, it forms a ridge roof 7 feet high and
shelters fully ten men. It suits servants perfectly well. For the master who wants to work,
to write, to draw, occasionally to receive officials, the ideal tent would be one of the same
material, but of larger proportions, and comprising two parallel vertical partitions and surmounted
by a ridge roof. The round form of Kirghiz and Mongol tents is also very comfortable, but it
requires a complicated and inconvenient wooden frame-work, owing to which it takes some considerable
time to raise up the tent."--H. C.]

NOTE 8.--The expressions about the sable run in the G. T., "et l'apellent les Tartarz les roi
des pelaines," etc. This has been curiously misunderstood both in versions based on Pipino,
and in the Geog. Latin and Crusca Italian. The Geog. Latin gives us "vocant eas Tartari Lenoidae
Pellonae"; the Crusca, "chiamanle li Tartari Leroide Pelame"; Ramusio in a very odd way combines
both the genuine and the blundered interpretation: "E li Tartari la chiamano Regina delle Pelli;
e gli animali si chiamano Rondes." Fraehn ingeniously suggested that this Rondes (which proves
to be merely a misunderstanding of the French words Roi des) was a mistake for Kunduz, usually
meaning a "beaver," but also a "sable." (See Ibn Foszlan, p. 57.) Condux, no doubt with this
meaning, appears coupled with vair, in a Venetian Treaty with Egypt (1344), quoted by Heyd.
(II. 208.)

Ibn Batuta puts the ermine above the sable. An ermine pelisse, he says, was worth in India
1000 dinárs of that country, whilst a sable one was worth only 400 dinárs. As Ibn Batuta's
Indian dinárs are Rupees, the estimate of price is greatly lower than Polo's. Some years ago
I find the price of a Sack, as it is technically called by the Russian traders, or robe of
fine sables, stated to be in the Siberian market about 7000 banco rubels, i.e. I believe about
350l. The same authority mentions that in 1591 the Tzar Theodore Ivanovich made a present of
a pelisse valued at the equivalent of 5000 silver rubels of modern Russian money, or upwards
of 750l. Atkinson speaks of a single sable skin of the highest quality, for which the trapper
demanded 18l. The great mart for fine sables is at Olekma on the Lena. (See I. B. II. 401-402;
Baer's Beiträge, VII. 215 seqq.; Upper and Lower Amoor, 390.)

NOTE 9.--Hawking is still common in North China. Pétis de la Croix the elder, in his account
of the Yasa, or institutes of Chinghiz, quotes one which lays down that between March and October
"no one should take stags, deer, roebucks, hares, wild asses, nor some certain birds," in order
that there might be ample sport in winter for the court. This would be just the reverse of
Polo's statement, but I suspect it is merely a careless adoption of the latter. There are many
such traps in Pétis de la Croix. (Engl. Vers. 1722, p. 82.)

CHAPTER XXI.

REHEARSAL OF THE WAY THE YEAR OF THE GREAT KAAN IS DISTRIBUTED.

On arriving at his capital of Cambaluc,[NOTE 1] he stays in his palace there three days and
no more; during which time he has great court entertainments and rejoicings, and makes merry
with his wives. He then quits his palace at Cambaluc, and proceeds to that city which he has
built, as I told you before, and which is called Chandu, where he has that grand park and palace
of cane, and where he keeps his gerfalcons in mew. There he spends the summer, to escape the
heat, for the situation is a very cool one. After stopping there from the beginning of May
to the 28th of August, he takes his departure (that is the time when they sprinkle the white
mares' milk as I told you), and returns to his capital Cambaluc. There he stops, as I have
told you also, the month of September, to keep his Birthday Feast, and also throughout October,
November, December, January, and February, in which last month he keeps the grand feast of
the New Year, which they call the White Feast, as you have heard already with all particulars.
He then sets out on his march towards the Ocean Sea, hunting and hawking, and continues out
from the beginning of March to the middle of May; and then comes back for three days only to
the capital, during which he makes merry with his wives, and holds a great court and grand
entertainments. In truth, 'tis something astonishing, the magnificence displayed by the Emperor
in those three days; and then he starts off again as you know.

Thus his whole year is distributed in the following manner: six months at his chief palace
in the royal city of Cambaluc, to wit, September, October, November, December, January, February;

Then on the great hunting expedition towards the sea, March, April, May;

Then back to his palace at Cambaluc for three days;

Then off to the city of Chandu which he has built, and where the Cane Palace is, where he stays
June, July, August;

Then back again to his capital city of Cambaluc.

So thus the whole year is spent; six months at the capital, three months in hunting, and three
months at the Cane Palace to avoid the heat. And in this way he passes his time with the greatest
enjoyment; not to mention occasional journeys in this or that direction at his own pleasure.

NOTE 1.--This chapter, with its wearisome and whimsical reiteration, reminding one of a game
of forfeits, is peculiar to that class of MSS. which claims to represent the copy given to
Thibault de Cepoy by Marco Polo.

Dr. Bushell has kindly sent me a notice of a Chinese document (his translation of which he
had unfortunately mislaid), containing a minute contemporary account of the annual migration
of the Mongol Court to Shangtu. Having traversed the Kiu Yung Kwan (or Nankau) Pass, where
stands the great Mongol archway represented at the end of this volume, they left what is now
the Kalgan post-road at Tumuyi, making straight for Chaghan-nor (supra, p. 304), and thence
to Shangtu. The return journey in autumn followed the same route as far as Chaghan-nor, where
some days were spent in fowling on the lakes, and thence by Siuen-hwa fu ("Sindachu," supra,
p. 295) and the present post-road to Cambaluc.

CHAPTER XXII.

CONCERNING THE CITY OF CAMBALUC, AND ITS GREAT TRAFFIC AND POPULATION.

You must know that the city of Cambaluc hath such a multitude of houses, and such a vast population
inside the walls and outside, that it seems quite past all possibility. There is a suburb outside
each of the gates, which are twelve in number;[NOTE 1] and these suburbs are so great that
they contain more people than the city itself [for the suburb of one gate spreads in width
till it meets the suburb of the next, whilst they extend in length some three or four miles].
In those suburbs lodge the foreign merchants and travellers, of whom there are always great
numbers who have come to bring presents to the Emperor, or to sell articles at Court, or because
the city affords so good a mart to attract traders. [There are in each of the suburbs, to a
distance of a mile from the city, numerous fine hostelries[NOTE 2] for the lodgment of merchants
from different parts of the world, and a special hostelry is assigned to each description of
people, as if we should say there is one for the Lombards, another for the Germans, and a third
for the Frenchmen.] And thus there are as many good houses outside of the city as inside, without
counting those that belong to the great lords and barons, which are very numerous.

You must know that it is forbidden to bury any dead body inside the city. If the body be that
of an Idolater it is carried out beyond the city and suburbs to a remote place assigned for
the purpose, to be burnt. And if it be of one belonging to a religion the custom of which is
to bury, such as the Christian, the Saracen, or what not, it is also carried out beyond the
suburbs to a distant place assigned for the purpose. And thus the city is preserved in a better
and more healthy state.

Moreover, no public woman resides inside the city, but all such abide outside in the suburbs.
And 'tis wonderful what a vast number of these there are for the foreigners; it is a certain
fact that there are more than 20,000 of them living by prostitution. And that so many can live
in this way will show you how vast is the population.

[Guards patrol the city every night in parties of 30 or 40, looking out for any persons who
may be abroad at unseasonable hours, i.e. after the great bell hath stricken thrice. If they
find any such person he is immediately taken to prison, and examined next morning by the proper
officers.

To this city also are brought articles of greater cost and rarity, and in greater abundance
of all kinds, than to any other city in the world. For people of every description, and from
every region, bring things (including all the costly wares of India, as well as the fine and
precious goods of Cathay itself with its provinces), some for the sovereign, some for the court,
some for the city which is so great, some for the crowds of Barons and Knights, some for the
great hosts of the Emperor which are quartered round about; and thus between court and city
the quantity brought in is endless.

As a sample, I tell you, no day in the year passes that there do not enter the city 1000 cart-loads
of silk alone, from which are made quantities of cloth of silk and gold, and of other goods.
And this is not to be wondered at; for in all the countries round about there is no flax, so
that everything has to be made of silk. It is true, indeed, that in some parts of the country
there is cotton and hemp, but not sufficient for their wants. This, however, is not of much
consequence, because silk is so abundant and cheap, and is a more valuable substance than either
flax or cotton.

Round about this great city of Cambaluc there are some 200 other cities at various distances,
from which traders come to sell their goods and buy others for their lords; and all find means
to make their sales and purchases, so that the traffic of the city is passing great.

NOTE 1.--It would seem to have been usual to reckon twelve suburbs to Peking down to modern
times. (See Deguignes, III. 38.)

NOTE 2.--The word here used is Fondaco, often employed in mediaeval Italian in the sense nearly
of what we call a factory. The word is from the Greek [Greek: pandokeion], but through the
Arabic Fandúk. The latter word is used by Ibn Batuta in speaking of the hostelries at which
the Mussulman merchants put up in China.

CHAPTER XXIII.

[CONCERNING THE OPPRESSIONS OF ACHMATH THE BAILO, AND THE PLOT THAT WAS FORMED AGAINST HIM.[NOTE 1]

You will hear further on how that there are twelve persons appointed who have authority to
dispose of lands, offices, and everything else at their discretion. Now one of these was a
certain Saracen named ACHMATH, a shrewd and able man, who had more power and influence with
the Grand Kaan than any of the others; and the Kaan held him in such regard that he could do
what he pleased. The fact was, as came out after his death, that Achmath had so wrought upon
the Kaan with his sorcery, that the latter had the greatest faith and reliance on everything
he said, and in this way did everything that Achmath wished him to do.

This person disposed of all governments and offices, and passed sentence on all malefactors;
and whenever he desired to have any one whom he hated put to death, whether with justice or
without it, he would go to the Emperor and say: "Such an one deserves death, for he hath done
this or that against your imperial dignity." Then the Lord would say: "Do as you think right,"
and so he would have the man forthwith executed. Thus when people saw how unbounded were his
powers, and how unbounded the reliance placed by the Emperor on everything that he said, they
did not venture to oppose him in anything. No one was so high in rank or power as to be free
from the dread of him. If any one was accused by him to the Emperor of a capital offence, and
desired to defend himself, he was unable to bring proofs in his own exculpation, for no one
would stand by him, as no one dared to oppose Achmath. And thus the latter caused many to perish
unjustly.[NOTE 2]

Moreover, there was no beautiful woman whom he might desire, but he got hold of her; if she
were unmarried, forcing her to be his wife, if otherwise, compelling her to consent to his
desires. Whenever he knew of any one who had a pretty daughter, certain ruffians of his would
go to the father, and say: "What say you? Here is this pretty daughter of yours; give her in
marriage to the Bailo Achmath (for they called him 'the Bailo,' or, as we should say, 'the
Vicegerent'),[NOTE 3] and we will arrange for his giving you such a government or such an office
for three years." And so the man would surrender his daughter. And Achmath would go to the
Emperor, and say: "Such a government is vacant, or will be vacant on such a day. So-and-So
is a proper man for the post." And the Emperor would reply: "Do as you think best;" and the
father of the girl was immediately appointed to the government. Thus either through the ambition
of the parents, or through fear of the Minister, all the beautiful women were at his beck,
either as wives or mistresses. Also he had some five-and-twenty sons who held offices of importance,
and some of these, under the protection of their father's name, committed scandals like his
own, and many other abominable iniquities. This Achmath also had amassed great treasure, for
everybody who wanted office sent him a heavy bribe.

In such authority did this man continue for two-and-twenty years. At last the people of the
country, to wit the Cathayans, utterly wearied with the endless outrages and abominable iniquities
which he perpetrated against them, whether as regarded their wives or their own persons, conspired
to slay him and revolt against the government. Amongst the rest there was a certain Cathayan
named Chenchu, a commander of a thousand, whose mother, daughter, and wife had all been dishonoured
by Achmath. Now this man, full of bitter resentment, entered into parley regarding the destruction
of the Minister with another Cathayan whose name was Vanchu, who was a commander of 10,000.
They came to the conclusion that the time to do the business would be during the Great Kaan's
absence from Cambaluc. For after stopping there three months he used to go to Chandu and stop
there three months; and at the same time his son Chinkin used to go away to his usual haunts,
and this Achmath remained in charge of the city; sending to obtain the Kaan's orders from Chandu
when any emergency arose.

So Vanchu and Chenchu, having come to this conclusion, proceeded to communicate it to the chief
people among the Cathayans, and then by common consent sent word to their friends in many other
cities that they had determined on such a day, at the signal given by a beacon, to massacre
all the men with beards, and that the other cities should stand ready to do the like on seeing
the signal fires. The reason why they spoke of massacring the bearded men was that the Cathayans
naturally have no beard, whilst beards are worn by the Tartars, Saracens, and Christians. And
you should know that all the Cathayans detested the Grand Kaan's rule because he set over them
governors who were Tartars, or still more frequently Saracens, and these they could not endure,
for they were treated by them just like slaves. You see the Great Kaan had not succeeded to
the dominion of Cathay by hereditary right, but held it by conquest; and thus having no confidence
in the natives, he put all authority into the hands of Tartars, Saracens, or Christians who
were attached to his household and devoted to his service, and were foreigners in Cathay.

Wherefore, on the day appointed, the aforesaid Vanchu and Chenchu having entered the palace
at night, Vanchu sat down and caused a number of lights to be kindled before him. He then sent
a messenger to Achmath the Bailo, who lived in the Old City, as if to summon him to the presence
of Chinkin, the Great Kaan's son, who (it was pretended) had arrived unexpectedly. When Achmath
heard this he was much surprised, but made haste to go, for he feared the Prince greatly. When
he arrived at the gate he met a Tartar called Cogatai, who was Captain of the 12,000 that formed
the standing garrison of the City; and the latter asked him whither he was bound so late? "To
Chinkin, who is just arrived." Quoth Cogatai, "How can that be? How could he come so privily
that I know nought of it?" So he followed the Minister with a certain number of his soldiers.
Now the notion of the Cathayans was that, if they could make an end of Achmath, they would
have nought else to be afraid of. So as soon as Achmath got inside the palace, and saw all
that illumination, he bowed down before Vanchu, supposing him to be Chinkin, and Chenchu who
was standing ready with a sword straightway cut his head off. As soon as Cogatai, who had halted
at the entrance, beheld this, he shouted "Treason!" and instantly discharged an arrow at Vanchu
and shot him dead as he sat. At the same time he called his people to seize Chenchu, and sent
a proclamation through the city that any one found in the streets would be instantly put to
death. The Cathayans saw that the Tartars had discovered the plot, and that they had no longer
any leader, since Vanchu was killed and Chenchu was taken. So they kept still in their houses,
and were unable to pass the signal for the rising of the other cities as had been settled.
Cogatai immediately dispatched messengers to the Great Kaan giving an orderly report of the
whole affair, and the Kaan sent back orders for him to make a careful investigation, and to
punish the guilty as their misdeeds deserved. In the morning Cogatai examined all the Cathayans,
and put to death a number whom he found to be ringleaders in the plot. The same thing was done
in the other cities, when it was found that the plot extended to them also.

After the Great Kaan had returned to Cambaluc he was very anxious to discover what had led
to this affair, and he then learned all about the endless iniquities of that accursed Achmath
and his sons. It was proved that he and seven of his sons (for they were not all bad) had forced
no end of women to be their wives, besides those whom they had ravished. The Great Kaan then
ordered all the treasure that Achmath had accumulated in the Old City to be transferred to
his own treasury in the New City, and it was found to be of enormous amount. He also ordered
the body of Achmath to be dug up and cast into the streets for the dogs to tear; and commanded
those of his sons that had followed the father's evil example to be flayed alive.[NOTE 4]

These circumstances called the Kaan's attention to the accursed doctrines of the Sect of the
Saracens, which excuse every crime, yea even murder itself, when committed on such as are not
of their religion. And seeing that this doctrine had led the accursed Achmath and his sons
to act as they did without any sense of guilt, the Kaan was led to entertain the greatest disgust
and abomination for it. So he summoned the Saracens and prohibited their doing many things
which their religion enjoined. Thus, he ordered them to regulate their marriages by the Tartar
Law, and prohibited their cutting the throats of animals killed for food, ordering them to
rip the stomach in the Tartar way.

Now when all this happened Messer Marco was upon the spot.][NOTE 5]

NOTE 1.--This narrative is from Ramusio's version, and constitutes one of the most notable
passages peculiar to that version.

The name of the oppressive Minister is printed in Ramusio's Collection Achmach. But the c and
t are so constantly interchanged in MSS. that I think there can be no question this was a mere
clerical error for Achmath, and so I write it. I have also for consistency changed the spelling
of Xandu, Chingis, etc., to that hitherto adopted in our text of Chandu, Chinkin, etc.

NOTE 2.--The remarks of a Chinese historian on Kúblái's administration may be appropriately
quoted here: "Hupilai Han must certainly be regarded as one of the greatest princes that ever
existed, and as one of the most successful in all that he undertook. This he owed to his judgment
in the selection of his officers, and to his talent for commanding them. He carried his arms
into the most remote countries, and rendered his name so formidable that not a few nations
spontaneously submitted to his supremacy. Nor was there ever an Empire of such vast extent.
He cultivated literature, protected its professors, and even thankfully received their advice.
Yet he never placed a Chinese in his cabinet, and he employed foreigners only as Ministers.
These, however, he chose with discernment, always excepting the Ministers of Finance. He really
loved his subjects; and if they were not always happy under his government, it is because they
took care to conceal their sufferings. There were in those days no Public Censors whose duty
it is to warn the Sovereign of what is going on: and no one dared to speak out for fear of
the resentment of the Ministers, who were the depositaries of the Imperial authority, and the
authors of the oppressions under which the people laboured. Several Chinese, men of letters
and of great ability, who lived at Hupilai's court, might have rendered that prince the greatest
service in the administration of his dominions, but they never were intrusted with any but
subordinate offices, and they were not in a position to make known the malversations of those
public blood-suckers." (De Mailla, IX. 459-460.)

AHMAD was a native of Fenáket (afterwards Sháh-Rúkhia), near the Jaxartes, and obtained employment
under Kúblái through the Empress Jamui Khatun, who had known him before her marriage. To her
Court he was originally attached, but we find him already employed in high financial office
in 1264. Kúblái's demands for money must have been very large, and he eschewed looking too
closely into the character of his financial agents or the means by which they raised money
for him. Ahmad was very successful in this, and being a man of great talent and address, obtained
immense influence over the Emperor, until at last nothing was done save by his direction, though
he always appeared to be acting under the orders of Kúblái. The Chinese authorities in Gaubil
and De Mailla speak strongly of his oppressions, but only in general terms, and without affording
such particulars as we derive from the text.

The Hereditary Prince Chingkim was strongly adverse to Ahmad; and some of the high Chinese
officials on various occasions made remonstrance against the Minister's proceedings; but Kúblái
turned a deaf ear to them, and Ahmad succeeded in ruining most of his opponents. (Gaubil, 141,
143, 151; De Mailla, IX. 316-317; D'Ohsson, II. 468-469.)

[The Rev. W. S. Ament (Marco Polo in Cambaluc, 105) writes: "No name is more execrated than
that of Ah-ha-ma (called Achmath by Polo), a Persian, who was chosen to manage the finances
of the Empire. He was finally destroyed by a combination against him while the Khan was absent
with Crown Prince Chen Chin, on a visit to Shang Tu." Achmath has his biography under the name
of A-ho-ma (Ahmed) in the ch. 205 of the Yuen-shi, under the rubric "Villanous Ministers."
(Bretschneider, Med. Res. I. p. 272.)--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--This term Bailo was the designation of the representative of Venetian dignity at Constantinople,
called Podestà during the period of the Latin rule there, and it has endured throughout the
Turkish Empire to our own day in the form Balios as the designation of a Frank Consul. [There
was also a Venetian bailo in Syria.--H. C.] But that term itself could scarcely have been in
use at Cambaluc, even among the handful of Franks, to designate the powerful Minister, and
it looks as if Marco had confounded the word in his own mind with some Oriental term of like
sound, possibly the Arabic Wáli, "a Prince, Governor of a Province,... a chief Magistrate."
(F. Johnson.) In the Roteiro of the Voyage of Vasco da Gama (2nd ed. Lisbon, 1861, pp. 53-54)
it is said that on the arrival of the ships at Calicut the King sent "a man who was called
the Bale, which is much the same as Alquaide." And the Editor gives the same explanation that
I have suggested.

I observe that according to Pandit Manphúl the native governor of Kashgar, under the Chinese
Amban, used to be called the Baili Beg. [In this case Baili stands for beilêh.--H. C.] (Panjab
Trade Report, App. p. cccxxxvii.)

NOTE 4.--The story, as related in De Mailla and Gaubil, is as follows. It contains much less
detail than the text, and it differs as to the manner of the chief conspirator's death, whilst
agreeing as to his name and the main facts of the episode.

In the spring of 1282 (Gaubil, 1281) Kúblái and Prince Chingkim had gone off as usual to Shangtu,
leaving Ahmad in charge at the Capital. The whole country was at heart in revolt against his
oppressions. Kúblái alone knew, or would know, nothing of them.

WANGCHU, a chief officer of the city, resolved to take the opportunity of delivering the Empire
from such a curse, and was joined in his enterprise by a certain sorcerer called Kao Hoshang.
They sent two Lamas to the Council Board with a message that the Crown Prince was returning
to the Capital to take part in certain Buddhist ceremonies, but no credit was given to this.
Wangchu then, pretending to have received orders from the Prince, desired an officer called
CHANG-Y (perhaps the Chenchu of Polo's narrative) to go in the evening with a guard of honour
to receive him. Late at night a message was sent to summon the Ministers, as the Prince (it
was pretended) had already arrived. They came in haste with Ahmad at their head, and as he
entered the Palace Wangchu struck him heavily with a copper mace and stretched him dead. Wangchu
was arrested, or according to one account surrendered, though he might easily have escaped,
confident that the Crown Prince would save his life. Intelligence was sent off to Kúblái, who
received it at Chaghan-Nor. (See Book I. ch. lx.) He immediately despatched officers to arrest
the guilty and bring them to justice. Wangchu, Chang-y, and Kao Hoshang were publicly executed
at the Old City; Wangchu dying like a hero, and maintaining that he had done the Empire an
important service which would yet be acknowledged. (De Mailla, IX. 412-413; Gaubil, 193-194;
D'Ohsson, II. 470.) [Cf. G. Phillips, in T'oung-Pao, I. p. 220.--H. C.]

NOTE 5.--And it is a pleasant fact that Messer Marco's presence, and his upright conduct upon
this occasion, have not been forgotten in the Chinese Annals: "The Emperor having returned
from Chaghan-Nor to Shangtu, desired POLO, Assessor of the Privy Council, to explain the reasons
which had led Wangchu to commit this murder. Polo spoke with boldness of the crimes and oppressions
of Ahama (Ahmad), which had rendered him an object of detestation throughout the Empire. The
Emperor's eyes were opened, and he praised the courage of Wangchu. He complained that those
who surrounded him, in abstaining from admonishing him of what was going on, had thought more
of their fear of displeasing the Minister than of the interests of the State." By Kúblái's
order, the body of Ahmad was taken up, his head was cut off and publicly exposed, and his body
cast to the dogs. His son also was put to death with all his family, and his immense wealth
confiscated. 714 persons were punished, one way or other, for their share in Ahmad's malversations.
(De Mailla, IX. 413-414.)

What is said near the end of this chapter about the Kaan's resentment against the Saracens
has some confirmation in circumstances related by Rashiduddin. The refusal of some Mussulman
merchants, on a certain occasion at Court, to eat of the dishes sent them by the Emperor, gave
great offence, and led to the revival of an order of Chinghiz, which prohibited, under pain
of death, the slaughter of animals by cutting their throats. This endured for seven years,
and was then removed on the strong representation made to Kúblái of the loss caused by the
cessation of the visits of the Mahomedan merchants. On a previous occasion also the Mahomedans
had incurred disfavour, owing to the ill-will of certain Christians, who quoted to Kúblái a
text of the Koran enjoining the killing of polytheists. The Emperor sent for the Mullahs, and
asked them why they did not act on the Divine injunction? All they could say was that the time
was not yet come! Kúblái ordered them for execution, and was only appeased by the intercession
of Ahmad, and the introduction of a divine with more tact, who smoothed over obnoxious applications
of the text. (D'Ohsson, II.

Now that I have told you in detail of the splendour of this City of the Emperor's, I shall
proceed to tell you of the Mint which he hath in the same city, in the which he hath his money
coined and struck, as I shall relate to you. And in doing so I shall make manifest to you how
it is that the Great Lord may well be able to accomplish even much more than I have told you,
or am going to tell you, in this Book. For, tell it how I might, you never would be satisfied
that I was keeping within truth and reason!

The Emperor's Mint then is in this same City of Cambaluc, and the way it is wrought is such
that you might say he hath the Secret of Alchemy in perfection, and you would be right! For
he makes his money after this fashion.

He makes them take of the bark of a certain tree, in fact of the Mulberry Tree, the leaves
of which are the food of the silkworms,--these trees being so numerous that whole districts
are full of them. What they take is a certain fine white bast or skin which lies between the
wood of the tree and the thick outer bark, and this they make into something resembling sheets
of paper, but black. When these sheets have been prepared they are cut up into pieces of different
sizes. The smallest of these sizes is worth a half tornesel; the next, a little larger, one
tornesel; one, a little larger still, is worth half a silver groat of Venice; another a whole
groat; others yet two groats, five groats, and ten groats. There is also a kind worth one Bezant
of gold, and others of three Bezants, and so up to ten. All these pieces of paper are [issued
with as much solemnity and authority as if they were of pure gold or silver; and on every piece
a variety of officials, whose duty it is, have to write their names, and to put their seals.
And when all is prepared duly, the chief officer deputed by the Kaan smears the Seal entrusted
to him with vermilion, and impresses it on the paper, so that the form of the Seal remains
printed upon it in red; the Money is then authentic. Any one forging it would be punished with
death.] And the Kaan causes every year to be made such a vast quantity of this money, which
costs him nothing, that it must equal in amount all the treasure in the world.

With these pieces of paper, made as I have described, he causes all payments on his own account
to be made; and he makes them to pass current universally over all his kingdoms and provinces
and territories, and whithersoever his power and sovereignty extends. And nobody, however important
he may think himself, dares to refuse them on pain of death. And indeed everybody takes them
readily, for wheresoever a person may go throughout the Great Kaan's dominions he shall find
these pieces of paper current, and shall be able to transact all sales and purchases of goods
by means of them just as well as if they were coins of pure gold. And all the while they are
so light that ten bezants' worth does not weigh one golden bezant.

Furthermore all merchants arriving from India or other countries, and bringing with them gold
or silver or gems and pearls, are prohibited from selling to any one but the Emperor. He has
twelve experts chosen for this business, men of shrewdness and experience in such affairs;
these appraise the articles, and the Emperor then pays a liberal price for them in those pieces
of paper. The merchants accept his price readily, for in the first place they would not get
so good an one from anybody else, and secondly they are paid without any delay. And with this
paper-money they can buy what they like anywhere over the Empire, whilst it is also vastly
lighter to carry about on their journeys. And it is a truth that the merchants will several
times in the year bring wares to the amount of 400,000 bezants, and the Grand Sire pays for
all in that paper. So he buys such a quantity of those precious things every year that his
treasure is endless, whilst all the time the money he pays away costs him nothing at all. Moreover,
several times in the year proclamation is made through the city that any one who may have gold
or silver or gems or pearls, by taking them to the Mint shall get a handsome price for them.
And the owners are glad to do this, because they would find no other purchaser give so large
a price. Thus the quantity they bring in is marvellous, though these who do not choose to do
so may let it alone. Still, in this way, nearly all the valuables in the country come into
the Kaan's possession.

When any of those pieces of paper are spoilt--not that they are so very flimsy neither--the
owner carries them to the Mint, and by paying three per cent, on the value he gets new pieces
in exchange. And if any Baron, or any one else soever, hath need of gold or silver or gems
or pearls, in order to make plate, or girdles, or the like, he goes to the Mint and buys as
much as he list, paying in this paper-money.[NOTE 1]

Now you have heard the ways and means whereby the Great Kaan may have, and in fact has, more
treasure than all the Kings in the World; and you know all about it and the reason why. And
now I will tell you of the great Dignitaries which act in this city on behalf of the Emperor.

NOTE 1.--It is surprising to find that, nearly two centuries ago, Magaillans, a missionary
who had lived many years in China, and was presumably a Chinese scholar, should have utterly
denied the truth of Polo's statements about the paper-currency of China. Yet the fact even
then did not rest on Polo's statement only. The same thing had been alleged in the printed
works of Rubruquis, Roger Bacon, Hayton, Friar Odoric, the Archbishop of Soltania, and Josaphat
Barbaro, to say nothing of other European authorities that remained in manuscript, or of the
numerous Oriental records of the same circumstance.

The issue of paper-money in China is at least as old as the beginning of the 9th century. In
1160 the system had gone to such excess that government paper equivalent in nominal value to
43,600,000 ounces of silver had been issued in six years, and there were local notes besides;
so that the Empire was flooded with rapidly depreciating paper.

The Kin or "Golden" Dynasty of Northern Invaders who immediately preceded the Mongols took
to paper, in spite of their title, as kindly as the native sovereigns. Their notes had a course
of seven years, after which new notes were issued to the holders, with a deduction of 15 per cent.

The Mongols commenced their issues of paper-money in 1236, long before they had transferred
the seat of their government to China. Kúblái made such an issue in the first year of his reign
(1260), and continued to issue notes copiously till the end. In 1287 he put out a complete
new currency, one note of which was to exchange against five of the previous series of equal
nominal value! In both issues the paper-money was, in official valuation, only equivalent to
half its nominal value in silver; a circumstance not very easy to understand. The paper-money
was called Chao.

The notes of Kúblái's first issue (1260-1287) with which Polo maybe supposed most familiar,
were divided into three classes; (1) Notes of Tens, viz. of 10, 20, 30, and 50 tsien or cash;
(2) Notes of Hundreds, viz. of 100, 200, and 500 tsien; and (3) Notes of Strings or Thousands
of cash, or in other words of Liangs or ounces of silver (otherwise Tael), viz. of 1000 and
2000 tsien. There were also notes printed on silk for 1, 2, 3, 5, and 10 ounces each, valued
at par in silver, but these would not circulate. In 1275, it should be mentioned, there had
been a supplementary issue of small notes for 2, 3, and 5 cash each.

Marsden states an equation between Marco's values of the Notes and the actual Chinese currency,
to which Biot seems to assent. I doubt its correctness, for his assumed values of the groat
or grosso and tornesel are surely wrong. The grosso ran at that time 18 to the gold ducat or
sequin, and allowing for the then higher relative value of silver, should have contained about
5d. of silver. The ducat was also equivalent to 2 lire, and the tornese (Romanin, III. 343)
was 4 deniers. Now the denier is always, I believe 1/240 of the lira. Hence the tornese would
be 9/60 of the grosso.

But we are not to look for exact correspondences, when we see Polo applying round figures in
European coinage to Chinese currency.

His bezant notes, I agree with Marsden, here represent the Chinese notes for one and more ounces
of silver. And here the correspondence of value is much nearer than it seems at first sight.
The Chinese liang or ounce of silver is valued commonly at 6s. 7d., say roundly 80d.[1] But
the relation of gold and silver in civilized Asia was then (see ch. I. note 4, and also Cathay,
pp. ccl. and 442) as 10 to 1, not, as with us now, more than 15 to 1. Wherefore the liang in
relation to gold would be worth 120d. or 10s., a little over the Venetian ducat and somewhat
less than the bezant or dínár. We shall then find the table of Chinese issues, as compared
with Marco's equivalents, to stand thus:--

CHINESE ISSUES, AS RECORDED.                   MARCO POLO'S STATEMENT.

For 10 ounces of silver (viz.              }
 the Chinese Ting)[2]                    }   10 bezants.

For 1 ounce of silver, i.e. 1 liang,     }
 or 1000 tsien (cash)                    }   1  "

For 500 tsien   .    .    .    .    .    .   10 groats.
    200   "  .    .    .    .    .    .    .   5   " (should have been 4).
    100   "  .    .    .    .    .    .    .   2   "
     50   "  .    .    .    .    .    .    .   1   "
     30   "  .    .    .    .    .    .    .   1/2 " (but the
                                               proportionate
                                               equivalent of half a groat
                                               would be 25 tsien).
     20   "  .    .    .    .    .    .    .
     10   "  .    .    .    .    .    .    .   1 tornesel (but the
                                               proportionate equivalent
                                               would be 7-1/2 tsien).
      5   "  .    .    .    .    .    .    .   1/2 " (but prop. equivalent
                                               3-3/4 tsien).

Pauthier has given from the Chinese Annals of the Mongol Dynasty a complete Table of the Issues
of Paper-Money during every year of Kúblái's reign (1260-1294), estimated at their nominal
value in Ting or tens of silver ounces. The lowest issue was in 1269, of 228,960 ounces, which
at the rate of 120d. to the ounce (see above) = 114,480l., and the highest was in 1290, viz.
50,002,500 ounces, equivalent at the same estimate to 25,001,250l.! whilst the total amount
in the 34 years was 249,654,290 ounces or 124,827,144l. in nominal value. Well might Marco
speak of the vast quantity of such notes that the Great Kaan issued annually!

To complete the history of the Chinese paper-currency so far as we can:

In 1309, a new issue took place with the same provision as in Kúblái's issue of 1287, i.e.
each note of the new issue was to exchange against 5 of the old of the same nominal value.
And it was at the same time prescribed that the notes should exchange at par with metals, which
of course it was beyond the power of Government to enforce, and so the notes were abandoned.
Issues continued from time to time to the end of the Mongol Dynasty. The paper-currency is
spoken of by Odoric (1320-30), by Pegolotti (1330-40), and by Ibn Batuta (1348), as still the
chief, if not sole, currency of the Empire. According to the Chinese authorities, the credit
of these issues was constantly diminishing, as it is easy to suppose. But it is odd that all
the Western Travellers speak as if the notes were as good as gold. Pegolotti, writing for mercantile
men, and from the information (as we may suppose) of mercantile men, says explicitly that there
was no depreciation.

The Ming Dynasty for a time carried on the system of paper-money; with the difference that
while under the Mongols no other currency had been admitted, their successors made payments
in notes, but accepted only hard cash from their people![3] In 1448 the chao of 1000 cash was
worth but 3. Barbaro still heard talk of the Chinese paper-currency from travellers whom he
met at Azov about this time; but after 1455 there is said to be no more mention of it in Chinese
history.

I have never heard of the preservation of any note of the Mongols; but some of the Ming survive,
and are highly valued as curiosities in China. The late Sir G. T. Staunton appears to have
possessed one; Dr. Lockhart formerly had two, of which he gave one to Sir Harry Parkes, and
retains the other. The paper is so dark as to explain Marco's description of it as black. By
Dr. Lockhart's kindness I am enabled to give a reduced representation of this note, as near
a facsimile as we have been able to render it, but with some restoration, e.g. of the seals,
of which on the original there is the barest indication remaining.

[Mr. Vissering (Chinese Currency, Addenda, I.-III.) gives a facsimile and a description of
a Chinese banknote of the Ming Dynasty belonging to the collection of the Asiatic Museum of
the Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburg. "In the eighth year of the period Hung-wu (1375),
the Emperor Tai-tsu issued an order to his minister of finances to make the Pao-tsao (precious
bills) of the Ta-Ming Dynasty, and to employ as raw material for the composition of those bills
the fibres of the mulberry tree."--H. C.]

Notwithstanding the disuse of Government issues of paper-money from that time till recent years,
there had long been in some of the cities of China a large use of private and local promissory
notes as currency. In Fuchau this was especially the case; bullion was almost entirely displaced,
and the banking-houses in that city were counted by hundreds. These were under no government
control; any individual or company having sufficient capital or credit could establish a bank
and issue their bills, which varied in amount from 100 cash to 1000 dollars. Some fifteen years
ago the Imperial Government seems to have been induced by the exhausted state of the Treasury,
and these large examples of the local use of paper-currency, to consider projects for resuming
that system after the disuse of four centuries. A curious report by a Committee of the Imperial
Supreme Council, on a project for such a currency, appears among the papers published by the
Russian Mission at Peking. It is unfavourable to the particular project, but we gather from
other sources that the Government not long afterwards did open banks in the large cities of
the Empire for the issue of a new paper-currency, but that it met with bad success. At Fuchau,
in 1858, I learn from one notice, the dollar was worth from 18,000 to 20,000 cash in Government
Bills. Dr. Rennie, in 1861, speaks of the dollar at Peking as valued at 15,000, and later at
25,000 paper cash. Sushun, the Regent, had issued a vast number of notes through banks of his
own in various parts of Peking. These he failed to redeem, causing the failure of all the banks,
and great consequent commotion in the city. The Regent had led the Emperor [Hien Fung] systematically
into debauched habits which ended in paralysis. On the Emperor's death the Empress caused the
arrest and execution of Sushun. His conduct in connection with the bank failures was so bitterly
resented that when the poor wretch was led to execution (8th November, 1861), as I learn from
an eye-witness, the defrauded creditors lined the streets and cheered.[4]

The Japanese also had a paper-currency in the 14th century. It is different in form from that
of China. That figured by Siebold is a strip of strong paper doubled, 6-1/4 in. long by 1-3/4
in. wide, bearing a representation of the tutelary god of riches, with long inscriptions in
Chinese characters, seals in black and red, and an indication of value in ancient Japanese
characters. I do not learn whether notes of considerable amount are still used in Japan; but
Sir R. Alcock speaks of banknotes for small change from 30 to 500 cash and more, as in general
use in the interior.

Two notable and disastrous attempts to imitate the Chinese system of currency took place in
the Middle Ages; one of them in Persia, apparently in Polo's very presence, the other in India
some 36 years later.

The first was initiated in 1294 by the worthless Kaikhatu Khan, when his own and his ministers'
extravagance had emptied the Treasury, on the suggestion of a financial officer called 'Izzuddín
Muzaffar. The notes were direct copies of Kúblái's, even the Chinese characters being imitated
as part of the device upon them.[5] The Chinese name Chao was applied to them, and the Mongol
Resident at Tabriz, Pulad Chingsang, was consulted in carrying out the measure. Expensive preparations
were made for this object; offices called Cháo-Khánahs were erected in the principal cities
of the provinces, and a numerous staff appointed to carry out the details. Ghazan Khan in Khorasan,
however, would have none of it, and refused to allow any of these preparations to be made within
his government. After the constrained use of the Chao for two or three days Tabriz was in an
uproar; the markets were closed; the people rose and murdered 'Izzuddín; and the whole project
had to be abandoned. Marco was in Persia at this time, or just before, and Sir John Malcolm
not unnaturally suggests that he might have had something to do with the scheme; a suggestion
which excites a needless commotion in the breast of M. Pauthier. We may draw from the story
the somewhat notable conclusion that Block-printing was practised, at least for this one purpose,
at Tabriz in 1294.

The other like enterprise was that of Sultan Mahomed Tughlak of Delhi, in 1330-31. This also
was undertaken for like reasons, and was in professed imitation of the Chao of Cathay. Mahomed,
however, used copper tokens instead of paper; the copper being made apparently of equal weight
to the gold or silver coin which it represented. The system seems to have had a little more
vogue than at Tabriz, but was speedily brought to an end by the ease with which forgeries on
an enormous scale were practised. The Sultan, in hopes of reviving the credit of his currency,
ordered that every one bringing copper tokens to the Treasury should have them cashed in gold
or silver. "The people who in despair had flung aside their copper coins like stones and bricks
in their houses, all rushed to the Treasury and exchanged them for gold and silver. In this
way the Treasury soon became empty, but the copper coins had as little circulation as ever,
and a very grievous blow was given to the State."

An odd issue of currency, not of paper, but of leather, took place in Italy a few years before
Polo's birth. The Emperor Frederic II., at the siege of Faenza in 1241, being in great straits
for money, issued pieces of leather stamped with the mark of his mint at the value of his Golden
Augustals. This leather coinage was very popular, especially at Florence, and it was afterwards
honourably redeemed by Frederic's Treasury. Popular tradition in Sicily reproaches William
the Bad among his other sins with having issued money of leather, but any stone is good enough
to cast at a dog with such a surname.

[Ma Twan-lin mentions that in the fourth year of the period Yuen Show (B.C. 119), a currency
of white metal and deer-skin was made. Mr. Vissering (Chinese Currency, 38) observes that the
skin-tallies "were purely tokens, and have had nothing in common with the leather-money, which
was, during a long time, current in Russia. This Russian skin-money had a truly representative
character, as the parcels were used instead of the skins from which they were cut; the skins
themselves being too bulky and heavy to be constantly carried backward and forward, only a
little piece was cut off, to figure as a token of possession of the whole skin. The ownership
of the skin was proved when the piece fitted in the hole."

Mr. Rockhill (Rubruck, 201 note) says: "As early as B.C. 118, we find the Chinese using 'leather-money'
(p'i pi). These were pieces of white deer-skin, a foot square, with a coloured border. Each
had a value of 40,000 cash. (Ma Twan-lin, Bk. 8, 5.)"

Mr. Charles F. Keary (Coins and Medals, by S. Lane Poole, 128) mentions that "in the reign
of Elizabeth there was a very extensive issue of private tokens in lead, tin, latten, and leather."--H.
C.]

(Klapr. in Mém. Rel. à l'Asie, I. 375 seqq.; Biot, in J. As. sér. III. tom. iv.; Marsden and
Pauthier, in loco; Parkes, in J. R. A. S. XIII. 179; Doolittle, 452 seqq.; Wylie, J. of Shanghai
Lit. and Scient. Soc. No. I.; Arbeiten der kais. russ. Gesandsch. zu Peking, I. p. 48; Rennie,
Peking, etc., I. 296, 347; Birch, in. Num. Chron. XII. 169; Information from Dr. Lockhart;
Alcock, II. 86; D'Ohsson, IV. 53; Cowell, in J. A. S. B. XXIX. 183 seqq.; Thomas, Coins of
Patan Sovs. of Hind., (from Numism. Chron. 1852), p. 139 seqq.; Kington's Fred. II. II. 195;
Amari, III. 816; W. Vissering, On Chinese Currency, Leiden, 1877.)

["Without doubt the Mongols borrowed the bank-note system from the Kin. Up to the present time
there is in Si-ngan-fu a block kept, which was used for printing the bank-notes of the Kin
Dynasty. I have had the opportunity of seeing a print of those bank-notes, they were of the
same size and shape as the bank-notes of the Ming. A reproduction of the text of the Kin bank-notes
is found in the Kin shi ts'ui pien. This copy has the characters pao kilan (precious charter)
and the years of reign Chêng Yew, 1213-1216. The first essay of the Mongols to introduce bank-notes
dates from the time of Ogodai Khan (1229-1242), but Chinese history only mentions the fact
without giving details. At that time silk in skeins was the only article of a determinate value
in the trade and on the project of Ye lü ch'u ts'ai, minister of Ogodai, the taxes were also
collected in silk delivered by weight. It can therefore be assumed that the name sze ch'ao
(i.e. bank-notes referring to the weight of silk) dates back to the same time. At any rate,
at a later time, as, under the reign of Kubilai, the issuing of banknotes was decreed, silk
was taken as the standard to express the value of silver and 1000 liang silk was estimated
= 50 liang (or 1 ting) silver. Thus, in consequence of those measures, it gradually became
a rule to transfer the taxes and rents originally paid in silk, into silver. The wealth of
the Mongol Khans in precious metals was renowned. The accounts regarding their revenues, however,
which we meet with occasionally in Chinese history, do not surprise by their vastness. In the
year 1298, for instance, the amount of the revenue is stated in the Siu t'ung Kien to have been:--

  19,000 liang of gold = (190,000 liang of silver, according to the
  exchange of that time at the rate of 1 to 10).

  60,000 liang of silver.

  3,600,000 ting of silver in bank-notes (i.e. 180 millions liang);
  altogether 180,250,000 liang of silver.

The number seems indeed very high for that time. But if the exceedingly low exchange of the
bank-notes be taken into consideration, the sum will be reduced to a modest amount." (Palladius,
pp. 50-51.)--H. C.]

[Dr. Bretschneider (Hist. Bot. Disc., I. p. 4) makes the following remark:--"Polo states (I.
409) that the Great Kaan causeth the bark of great Mulberry-trees, made into something like
paper, to pass for money." He seems to be mistaken. Paper in China is not made from mulberry-trees
but from the Broussonetia papyrifera, which latter tree belongs to the same order of Moraceae.
The same fibres are used also in some parts of China for making cloth, and Marco Polo alludes
probably to the same tree when stating (II. 108) "that in the province of Cuiju (Kwei chau)
they manufacture stuff of the bark of certain trees, which form very fine summer clothing."--H. C.]

[1] Even now there are at least eight different taels (or liangs) in
    extensive use over the Empire, and varying as much as from 96 to 106;
    and besides these are many local taels, with about the same limits
    of variation.--(Williamson's Journeys, I. 60.)

[2] [The Archimandrite Palladius (l.c., p. 50, note) says that "the ting
    of the Mongol time, as well as during the reign of the Kin, was a unit
    of weight equivalent to fifty liang, but not to ten liang. Cf.
    Ch'u keng lu, and Yuen-shi, ch. xcv. The Yuen pao, which as
    everybody in China knows, is equivalent to fifty liang (taels) of
    silver, is the same as the ancient ting, and the character Yuen
    indicates that it dates from the Yuen Dynasty."--H. C.]

[3] This is also, as regards Customs payments, the system of the
    Government of modern Italy.

[4] The first edition of this work gave a facsimile of one of this unlucky
    minister's notes.

[5] On both sides, however, was the Mahomedan formula, and beneath that
    the words Yiranjín Túrjí, a title conferred on the kings of Persia
    by the Kaan. There was also an inscription to the following effect:
    that the Emperor in the year 693 (A.H.) had issued these auspicious
    chao, that all who forged or uttered false notes should be summarily
    punished, with their wives and children, and their property
    confiscated; and that when these auspicious notes were once in
    circulation, poverty would vanish, provisions become cheap, and rich
    and poor be equal (Cowell). The use of the term chao at Tabriz may
    be compared with that of Banklot, current in modern India.

CHAPTER XXV.

CONCERNING THE TWELVE BARONS WHO ARE SET OVER ALL THE AFFAIRS OF THE GREAT KAAN.

You must know that the Great Kaan hath chosen twelve great Barons to whom he hath committed
all the necessary affairs of thirty-four great provinces; and now I will tell you particulars
about them and their establishments.

You must know that these twelve Barons reside all together in a very rich and handsome palace,
which is inside the city of Cambaluc, and consists of a variety of edifices, with many suites
of apartments. To every province is assigned a judge and several clerks, and all reside in
this palace, where each has his separate quarters. These judges and clerks administer all the
affairs of the provinces to which they are attached, under the direction of the twelve Barons.
Howbeit, when an affair is of very great importance, the twelve Barons lay in before the Emperor,
and he decides as he thinks best. But the power of those twelve Barons is so great that they
choose the governors for all those thirty-four great provinces that I have mentioned, and only
after they have chosen do they inform the Emperor of their choice. This he confirms, and grants
to the person nominated a tablet of gold such as is appropriate to the rank of his government.

Those twelve Barons also have such authority that they can dispose of the movements of the
forces, and send them whither, and in such strength, as they please. This is done indeed with
the Emperor's cognizance, but still the orders are issued on their authority. They are styled
SHIENG, which is as much as to say "The Supreme Court," and the palace where they abide is
also called Shieng. This body forms the highest authority at the Court of the Great Kaan; and
indeed they can favour and advance whom they will. I will not now name the thirty-four provinces
to you, because they will be spoken of in detail in the course of this Book.[NOTE 1]

NOTE 1.--Pauthier's extracts from the Chinese Annals of the Dynasty, in illustration of this
subject, are interesting. These, as he represents them, show the Council of Ministers usually
to have consisted of twelve high officials, viz.: two Ch'ing-siang [Chinese] or (chief) ministers
of state, one styled, "of the Right," and the other "of the Left"; four called P'ing-chang
ching-ssé, which seems to mean something like ministers in charge of special departments; four
assistant ministers; two Counsellors.

Rashiduddin, however, limits the Council to the first two classes: "Strictly speaking, the
Council of State is composed of four Ch'ing-sang (Ch'ing-siang) or great officers (Wazírs he
afterwards terms them), and four Fanchán (P'ing-chang) or associated members, taken from the
nations of the Tajiks, Cathayans, Ighurs, and Arkaun" (i.e. Nestorian Christians). (Compare
p. 418, supra.)

[A Samarkand man, Seyyd Tadj Eddin Hassan ben el Khallal, quoted in the Masálak al Absár, says:
"Near the Khan are two amírs who are his ministers; they are called Djing San [Arabic] (Ch'ing-siang).
After them come the two Bidjan [Arabic] (P'ing Chang), then the two Zoudjin [Arabic] (Tso Chen),
then the two Yudjin [Arabic] (Yu Chen), and at last the Landjun [Arabic] (Lang Chang), head
of the scribes, and secretary of the sovereign. The Khan holds a sitting every day in the middle
of a large building called Chen [Arabic] (Sheng), which is very like our Palace of Justice."
(C. Schefer, Cent. Ec. Langues Or., pp. 18-19.)--H. C.]

In a later age we find the twelve Barons reappearing in the pages of Mendoza: "The King hath
in this city of Tabin (Peking), where he is resident, a royal council of twelve counsellors
and a president, chosen men throughout all the kingdom, and such as have had experience in
government many years." And also in the early centuries of the Christian era we hear that the
Khan of the Turks had his twelve grandees, divided into those of the Right and those of the
Left, probably a copy from a Chinese order then also existing.

But to return to Rashiduddin: "As the Kaan generally resides at the capital, he has erected
a place for the sittings of the Great Council, called Sing.... The dignitaries mentioned above
are expected to attend daily at the Sing, and to make themselves acquainted with all that passes
there."

The Sing of Rashid is evidently the Shieng or Sheng (Scieng) of Polo. M. Pauthier is on this
point somewhat contemptuous towards Neumann, who, he says, confounds Marco Polo's twelve Barons
or Ministers of State with the chiefs of the twelve great provincial governments called Sing,
who had their residence at the chief cities of those governments; whilst in fact Polo's Scieng
(he asserts) has nothing to do with the Sing, but represents the Chinese word Siang "a minister,"
and "the office of a minister." [There was no doubt a confusion between Siang [Chinese] and
Sheng [Chinese].--H. C.]

It is very probable that two different words, Siang and Sing, got confounded by the non-Chinese
attachés of the Imperial Court; but it seems to me quite certain that they applied the same
word, Sing or Sheng, to both institutions, viz. to the High Council of State, and to the provincial
governments. It also looks as if Marco Polo himself had made that very confusion with which
Pauthier charges Neumann. For whilst here he represents the twelve Barons as forming a Council
of State at the capital, we find further on, when speaking of the city of Yangchau, he says:
"Et si siet en ceste cité uns des xii Barons du Grant Kaan; car elle est esleue pour un des
xii sieges," where the last word is probably a mistranscription of Sciengs, or Sings, and in
any case the reference is to a distribution of the empire into twelve governments.

To be convinced that Sing was used by foreigners in the double sense that I have said, we have
only to proceed with Rashiduddin's account of the administration. After what we have already
quoted, he goes on: "The Sing of Khanbaligh is the most eminent, and the building is very large....
Sings do not exist in all the cities, but only in the capitals of great provinces.... In the
whole empire of the Kaan there are twelve of these Sings; but that of Khanbaligh is the only
one which has Ching-sangs amongst its members." Wassáf again, after describing the greatness
of Khanzai (Kinsay of Polo) says: "These circumstances characterize the capital itself, but
four hundred cities of note, and embracing ample territories, are dependent on its jurisdiction,
insomuch that the most inconsiderable of those cities surpasses Baghdad and Shiraz. In the
number of these cities are Lankinfu and Zaitun, and Chinkalán; for they call Khanzai a Shing,
i.e. a great city in which the high and mighty Council of Administration holds its meetings."
Friar Odoric again says: "This empire hath been divided by the Lord thereof into twelve parts,
each one thereof is termed a Singo."

Polo, it seems evident to me, knew nothing of Chinese. His Shieng is no direct attempt to represent
any Chinese word, but simply the term that he had been used to employ in talking Persian or
Turki, in the way that Rashiduddin and Wassáf employ it.

I find no light as to the thirty-four provinces into which Polo represents the empire as divided,
unless it be an enumeration of the provinces and districts which he describes in the second
and third parts of Bk. II., of which it is not difficult to reckon thirty-three or thirty-four,
but not worth while to repeat the calculation.

[China was then divided into twelve Sheng or provinces: Cheng-Tung, Liao-Yang, Chung-Shu, Shen-Si,
Ling-Pe (Karakorum), Kan-Suh, Sze-ch'wan, Ho-Nan Kiang-Pe, Kiang-Ché, Kiang-Si, Hu-Kwang and
Yun-Nan. Rashiduddin (J. As., XI. 1883, p. 447) says that of the twelve Sing, Khanbaligh was
the only one with Chin-siang. I imagine that the thirty-four provinces refer to the Fu cities,
which numbered however thirty-nine, according to Oxenham's Historical Atlas.--H. C.]

(Cathay, 263 seqq. and 137; Mendoza, I. 96; Erdmann, 142; Hammer's Wassáf, p. 42, but corrected.)

CHAPTER XXVI.

HOW THE KAAN'S POSTS AND RUNNERS ARE SPED THROUGH MANY LANDS AND PROVINCES.

Now you must know that from this city of Cambaluc proceed many roads and highways leading to
a variety of provinces, one to one province, another to another; and each road receives the
name of the province to which it leads; and it is a very sensible plan.[NOTE 1] And the messengers
of the Emperor in travelling from Cambaluc, be the road whichsoever they will, find at every
twenty-five miles of the journey a station which they call Yamb,[NOTE 2] or, as we should say,
the "Horse-Post-House." And at each of those stations used by the messengers, there is a large
and handsome building for them to put up at, in which they find all the rooms furnished with
fine beds and all other necessary articles in rich silk, and where they are provided with everything
they can want. If even a king were to arrive at one of these, he would find himself well lodged.

At some of these stations, moreover, there shall be posted some four hundred horses standing
ready for the use of the messengers; at others there shall be two hundred, according to the
requirements, and to what the Emperor has established in each case. At every twenty-five miles,
as I said, or anyhow at every thirty miles, you find one of these stations, on all the principal
highways leading to the different provincial governments; and the same is the case throughout
all the chief provinces subject to the Great Kaan.[NOTE 3] Even when the messengers have to
pass through a roadless tract where neither house nor hostel exists, still there the station-houses
have been established just the same, excepting that the intervals are somewhat greater, and
the day's journey is fixed at thirty-five to forty-five miles, instead of twenty-five to thirty.
But they are provided with horses and all the other necessaries just like those we have described,
so that the Emperor's messengers, come they from what region they may, find everything ready
for them.

And in sooth this is a thing done on the greatest scale of magnificence that ever was seen.
Never had emperor, king, or lord, such wealth as this manifests! For it is a fact that on all
these posts taken together there are more than 300,000 horses kept up, specially for the use
of the messengers. And the great buildings that I have mentioned are more than 10,000 in number,
all richly furnished, as I told you. The thing is on a scale so wonderful and costly that it
is hard to bring oneself to describe it.[NOTE 4]

But now I will tell you another thing that I had forgotten, but which ought to be told whilst
I am on this subject. You must know that by the Great Kaan's orders there has been established
between those post-houses, at every interval of three miles, a little fort with some forty
houses round about it, in which dwell the people who act as the Emperor's foot-runners. Every
one of those runners wears a great wide belt, set all over with bells, so that as they run
the three miles from post to post their bells are heard jingling a long way off. And thus on
reaching the post the runner finds another man similarly equipt, and all ready to take his
place, who instantly takes over whatsoever he has in charge, and with it receives a slip of
paper from the clerk, who is always at hand for the purpose; and so the new man sets off and
runs his three miles. At the next station he finds his relief ready in like manner; and so
the post proceeds, with a change at every three miles. And in this way the Emperor, who has
an immense number of these runners, receives despatches with news from places ten days' journey
off in one day and night; or, if need be, news from a hundred days off in ten days and nights;
and that is no small matter! (In fact in the fruit season many a time fruit shall be gathered
one morning in Cambaluc, and the evening of the next day it shall reach the Great Kaan at Chandu,
a distance of ten days' journey.[NOTE 5] The clerk at each of the posts notes the time of each
courier's arrival and departure; and there are often other officers whose business it is to
make monthly visitations of all the posts, and to punish those runners who have been slack
in their work.[NOTE 6]) The Emperor exempts these men from all tribute, and pays them besides.

Moreover, there are also at those stations other men equipt similarly with girdles hung with
bells, who are employed for expresses when there is a call for great haste in sending despatches
to any governor of a province, or to give news when any Baron has revolted, or in other such
emergencies; and these men travel a good two hundred or two hundred and fifty miles in the
day, and as much in the night. I'll tell you how it stands. They take a horse from those at
the station which are standing ready saddled, all fresh and in wind, and mount and go at full
speed, as hard as they can ride in fact. And when those at the next post hear the bells they
get ready another horse and a man equipt in the same way, and he takes over the letter or whatever
it be, and is off full-speed to the third station, where again a fresh horse is found all ready,
and so the despatch speeds along from post to post, always at full gallop, with regular change
of horses. And the speed at which they go is marvellous. (By night, however, they cannot go
so fast as by day, because they have to be accompanied by footmen with torches, who could not
keep up with them at full speed.)

Those men are highly prized; and they could never do it, did they not bind hard the stomach,
chest and head with strong bands. And each of them carries with him a gerfalcon tablet, in
sign that he is bound on an urgent express; so that if perchance his horse break down, or he
meet with other mishap, whomsoever he may fall in with on the road, he is empowered to make
him dismount and give up his horse. Nobody dares refuse in such a case; so that the courier
hath always a good fresh nag to carry him.[NOTE 7]

Now all these numbers of post-horses cost the Emperor nothing at all; and I will tell you the
how and the why. Every city, or village, or hamlet, that stands near one of those post-stations,
has a fixed demand made on it for as many horses as it can supply, and these it must furnish
to the post. And in this way are provided all the posts of the cities, as well as the towns
and villages round about them; only in uninhabited tracts the horses are furnished at the expense
of the Emperor himself.

(Nor do the cities maintain the full number, say of 400 horses, always at their station, but
month by month 200 shall be kept at the station, and the other 200 at grass, coming in their
turn to relieve the first 200. And if there chance to be some river or lake to be passed by
the runners and horse-posts, the neighbouring cities are bound to keep three or four boats
in constant readiness for the purpose.)

And now I will tell you of the great bounty exercised by the Emperor towards his people twice
a year.

NOTE 1.--The G. Text has "et ce est mout sçue chouse"; Pauthier's Text, "mais il est moult
celé" The latter seems absurd. I have no doubt that sçue is correct, and is an Italianism,
saputo having sometimes the sense of prudent or judicious. Thus P. della Valle (II. 26), speaking
of Shah Abbas: "Ma noti V.S. i tiri di questo re, saputo insieme e bizzarro," "acute with all
his eccentricity."

NOTE 2.--Both Neumann and Pauthier seek Chinese etymologies of this Mongol word, which the
Tartars carried with them all over Asia. It survives in Persian and Turki in the senses both
of a post-house and a post-horse, and in Russia, in the former sense, is a relic of the Mongol
dominion. The ambassadors of Shah Rukh, on arriving at Sukchu, were lodged in the Yám-Khána,
or post-house, by the city gate; and they found ninety-nine such Yams between Sukchu and Khanbaligh,
at each of which they were supplied with provisions, servants, beds, night-clothes, etc. Odoric
likewise speaks of the hostelries called Yam, and Rubruquis applies the same term to quarters
in the imperial camp, which were assigned for the lodgment of ambassadors. (Cathay, ccii. 137;
Rubr. 310.)

[Mr. Rockhill (Rubruck, 101, note) says that these post-stations were established by Okkodai
in 1234 throughout the Mongol empire. (D'Ohsson, ii. 63.) Dr. G. Schlegel (T'oung Pao, II.
1891, 265, note) observes that iam is not, as Pauthier supposed, a contraction of yi-mà, horse
post-house (yi-mà means post-horse, and Pauthier makes a mistake), but represents the Chinese
character [Chinese], pronounced at present chán, which means in fact a road station, a post.
In Annamite, this character [Chinese] is pronounced tram, and it means, according to Bonet's
Dict. Annamite-Français: "Relais de poste, station de repos." (See Bretschneider, Med. Res.
I. p. 187 note.)--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--Martini and Magaillans, in the 17th century, give nearly the same account of the government
hostelries.

NOTE 4.--Here Ramusio has this digression: "Should any one find it difficult to understand
how there should be such a population as all this implies, and how they can subsist, the answer
is that all the Idolaters, and Saracens as well, take six, eight, or ten wives apiece when
they can afford it, and beget an infinity of children. In fact, you shall find many men who
have each more than thirty sons who form an armed retinue to their father, and this through
the fact of his having so many wives. With us, on the other hand, a man hath but one wife;
and if she be barren, still he must abide by her for life, and have no progeny; thus we have
not such a population as they have.

"And as regards food, they have abundance; for they generally consume rice, panic, and millet
(especially the Tartars, Cathayans, and people of Manzi); and these three crops in those countries
render an hundred-fold. Those nations use no bread, but only boil those kinds of grain with
milk or meat for their victual. Their wheat, indeed, does not render so much, but this they
use only to make vermicelli, and pastes of that description. No spot of arable land is left
untilled; and their cattle are infinitely prolific, so that when they take the field every
man is followed by six, eight, or more horses for his own use. Thus you may clearly perceive
how the population of those parts is so great, and how they have such an abundance of food."

NOTE 5.--The Burmese kings used to have the odoriferous Durian transmitted by horse-posts from
Tenasserim to Ava. But the most notable example of the rapid transmission of such dainties,
and the nearest approach I know of to their despatch by telegraph, was that practised for the
benefit of the Fatimite Khalif Aziz (latter part of 10th century), who had a great desire for
a dish of cherries of Balbek. The Wazir Yakub ben-Kilis caused six hundred pigeons to be despatched
from Balbek to Cairo, each of which carried attached to either leg a small silk bag containing
a cherry! (Quat. Makrizi, IV. 118.)

NOTE 6.--"Note is taken at every post," says Amyot, in speaking of the Chinese practice of
last century, "of the time of the courier's arrival, in order that it may be known at what
point delays have occurred." (Mém. VIII. 185.)

NOTE 7.--The post-system is described almost exactly as in the text by Friar Odoric and the
Archbishop of Soltania, in the generation after Polo, and very much in the same way by Magaillans
in the 17th century. Posts had existed in China from an old date. They are spoken of by Mas'udi
and the Relations of the 9th century. They were also employed under the ancient Persian kings;
and they were in use in India, at least in the generation after Polo. The Mongols, too, carried
the institution wherever they went.

Polo describes the couriers as changed at short intervals, but more usually in Asiatic posts
the same man rides an enormous distance. The express courier in Tibet, as described by "the
Pandit," rides from Gartokh to Lhasa, a distance of 800 miles, travelling day and night. The
courier's coat is sealed upon him, so that he dares not take off his clothes till the seal
is officially broken on his arrival at the terminus. These messengers had faces cracked, eyes
bloodshot and sunken, and bodies raw with vermin. (J. R. G. S. XXXVIII. p. 149.) The modern
Turkish post from Constantinople to Baghdad, a distance of 1100 miles, is done in twenty days
by four Tartars riding night and day. The changes are at Sivas, Diarbekir, and Mosul. M. Tchihatcheff
calculates that the night riding accomplishes only one quarter of the whole. (Asie Mineure,
2'de Ptie. 632-635.)--See I. p. 352, paï tze.

CHAPTER XXVII.

HOW THE EMPEROR BESTOWS HELP ON HIS PEOPLE, WHEN THEY ARE AFFLICTED WITH DEARTH OR MURRAIN.

Now you must know that the Emperor sends his Messengers over all his Lands and Kingdoms and
Provinces, to ascertain from his officers if the people are afflicted by any dearth through
unfavourable seasons, or storms or locusts, or other like calamity; and from those who have
suffered in this way no taxes are exacted for that year; nay more, he causes them to be supplied
with corn of his own for food and seed. Now this is undoubtedly a great bounty on his part.
And when winter comes, he causes inquiry to be made as to those who have lost their cattle,
whether by murrain or other mishap, and such persons not only go scot free, but get presents
of cattle. And thus, as I tell you, the Lord every year helps and fosters the people subject
to him.

[There is another trait of the Great Kaan I should tell you; and that is, that if a chance
shot from his bow strike any herd or flock, whether belonging to one person or to many, and
however big the flock may be, he takes no tithe thereof for three years. In like manner, if
the arrow strike a boat full of goods, that boat-load pays no duty; for it is thought unlucky
that an arrow strike any one's property; and the Great Kaan says it would be an abomination
before God, were such property, that has been struck by the divine wrath, to enter into his
Treasury.[NOTE 1]]

NOTE 1.--The Chinese author already quoted as to Kúblái's character (Note 2, ch. xxiii. supra)
says: "This Prince, at the sight of some evil prognostic, or when there was dearth, would remit
taxation, and cause grain to be distributed to those who were in destitution. He would often
complain that there never lacked informers if balances were due, or if corvées had been ordered,
but when the necessities of the people required to be reported, not a word was said."

Wassáf tells a long story in illustration of Kúblái's justice and consideration for the peasantry.
One of his sons, with a handful of followers, had got separated from the army, and halted at
a village in the territory of Bishbaligh, where the people gave them sheep and wine. Next year
two of the party came the same way and demanded a sheep and a stoup of wine. The people gave
it, but went to the Kaan and told the story, saying they feared it might grow into a perpetual
exaction. Kúblái sharply rebuked the Prince, and gave the people compensation and an order
in their favour. (De Mailla, ix. 460; Hammer's Wassaf, 38-39.)]

CHAPTER XXVIII.

HOW THE GREAT KAAN CAUSES TREES TO BE PLANTED BY THE HIGHWAYS.

The Emperor moreover hath taken order that all the highways travelled by his messengers and
the people generally should be planted with rows of great trees a few paces apart; and thus
these trees are visible a long way off, and no one can miss the way by day or night. Even the
roads through uninhabited tracts are thus planted, and it is the greatest possible solace to
travellers. And this is done on all the ways, where it can be of service. [The Great Kaan plants
these trees all the more readily, because his astrologers and diviners tell him that he who
plants trees lives long.[NOTE 1]

But where the ground is so sandy and desert that trees will not grow, he causes other landmarks,
pillars or stones, to be set up to show the way.]

NOTE 1.--In this Kúblái imitated the great King Asoka, or Priyadarsi, who in his graven edicts
(circa B.C. 250) on the Delhi Pillar, says: "Along the high roads I have caused fig-trees to
be planted, that they may be for shade to animals and men. I have also planted mango-trees;
and at every half-coss I have caused wells to be constructed, and resting-places for the night.
And how many hostels have been erected by me at various places for the entertainment of man
and beast." (J. A. S. B. IV. 604.) There are still remains of the fine avenues of Kúblái and
his successors in various parts of Northern China. (See Williamson, i. 74.)

CHAPTER XXIX.

CONCERNING THE RICE-WINE DRUNK BY THE PEOPLE OF CATHAY.

Most of the people of Cathay drink wine of the kind that I shall now describe. It is a liquor
which they brew of rice with a quantity of excellent spice, in such fashion that it makes better
drink than any ther kind of wine; it is not only good, but clear and pleasing to the eye.[NOTE
1] And being very hot stuff, it makes one drunk sooner than any other wine.

NOTE 1.--The mode of making Chinese rice-wine is described in Amyot's Mémoires, V. 468 seqq.
A kind of yeast is employed, with which is often mixed a flour prepared from fragrant herbs,
almonds, pine-seeds, dried fruits, etc. Rubruquis says this liquor was not distinguishable,
except by smell, from the best wine of Auxerre; a wine so famous in the Middle Ages, that the
Historian Friar, Salimbene, went from Lyons to Auxerre on purpose to drink it.[1] Ysbrand Ides
compares the rice-wine to Rhenish; John Bell to Canary; a modern traveller quoted by Davis,
"in colour, and a little in taste, to Madeira." [Friar Odoric (Cathay, i. p. 117) calls this
wine bigni; Dr. Schlegel (T'oung Pao, ii. p. 264) says Odoric's wine was probably made with
the date Mi-yin, pronounced Bi-im in old days. But Marco's wine is made of rice, and is called
shao hsing chiu. Mr. Rockhill (Rubruck, p. 166, note) writes: "There is another stronger liquor
distilled from millet, and called shao chiu: in Anglo-Chinese, samshu; Mongols call it araka,
arrak, and arreki. Ma Twan-lin (Bk. 327) says that the Moho (the early Nu-chên Tartars) drank
rice wine (mi chiu), but I fancy that they, like the Mongols, got it from the Chinese."

Dr. Emil Bretschneider (Botanicon Sinicum, ii. pp. 154-158) gives a most interesting account
of the use and fabrication of intoxicating beverages by the Chinese. "The invention of wine
or spirits in China," he says, "is generally ascribed to a certain I TI, who lived in the time
of the Emperor Yü. According to others, the inventor of wine was TU K'ANG." One may refer also
to Dr. Macgowan's paper On the "Mutton Wine" of the Mongols and Analogous Preparations of the
Chinese. (Jour. N. China Br. R. As. Soc., 1871-1872, pp. 237-240.)--H. C.]

[1] Kington's Fred. II. II. 457. So, in a French play of the 13th
    century, a publican in his patois invites custom, with hot bread,
    hot herrings, and wine of Auxerre in plenty:--

      "Chaiens, fait bon disner chaiens;
      Chi a caut pain et caus herens,
      Et vin d'Aucheurre à plain tonnel."--
          (Théat. Franç. au Moyen Age, 168.)

CHAPTER XXX.

CONCERNING THE BLACK STONES THAT ARE DUG IN CATHAY, AND ARE BURNT FOR FUEL.

It is a fact that all over the country of Cathay there is a kind of black stones existing in
beds in the mountains, which they dig out and burn like firewood. If you supply the fire with
them at night, and see that they are well kindled, you will find them still alight in the morning;
and they make such capital fuel that no other is used throughout the country. It is true that
they have plenty of wood also, but they do not burn it, because those stones burn better and
cost less.[NOTE 1]

[Moreover with that vast number of people, and the number of hot baths that they maintain--for
every one has such a bath at least three times a week, and in winter if possible every day,
whilst every nobleman and man of wealth has a private bath for his own use--the wood would
not suffice for the purpose.]

NOTE 1.--There is a great consumption of coal in Northern China, especially in the brick stoves,
which are universal, even in poor houses. Coal seems to exist in every one of the eighteen
provinces of China, which in this respect is justly pronounced to be one of the most favoured
countries in the world. Near the capital coal is mined at Yuen-ming-yuen, and in a variety
of isolated deposits among the hills in the direction of the Kalgan road, and in the district
round Siuen-hwa-fu. (Sindachu of Polo, ante ch. lix.) But the most important coal-fields in
relation to the future are those of Shan-tung Hu-nan, Ho-nan, and Shan-si. The last is eminently
the coal and iron province of China, and its coal-field, as described by Baron Richthofen,
combines, in an extraordinary manner, all the advantages that can enhance the value of such
a field except (at present) that of facile export; whilst the quantity available is so great
that from Southern Shan-si alone he estimates the whole world could be supplied, at the present
rate of consumption, for several thousand years. "Adits, miles in length, could be driven within
the body of the coal.... These extraordinary conditions ... will eventually give rise to some
curious features in mining... if a railroad should ever be built from the plain to this region
... branches of it will be constructed within the body of one or other of these beds of anthracite."
Baron Richthofen, in the paper which we quote from, indicates the revolution in the deposit
of the world's wealth and power, to which such facts, combined with other characteristics of
China, point as probable; a revolution so vast that its contemplation seems like that of a
planetary catastrophe.

In the coal-fields of Hu-nan "the mines are chiefly opened where the rivers intersect the inclined
strata of the coal-measures and allow the coal-beds to be attacked by the miner immediately
at their out-croppings."

At the highest point of the Great Kiang, reached by Sarel and Blakiston, they found mines on
the cliffs over the river, from which the coal was sent down by long bamboo cables, the loaded
baskets drawing up the empty ones.

[Many coal-fields have been explored since; one of the most important is the coal-field of
the Yun-nan province; the finest deposits are perhaps those found in the bend of the Kiang;
coal is found also at Mong-Tzu, Lin-ngan, etc.; this rich coal region has been explored in
1898 by the French engineer A. Leclère. (See Congrès int. Géog., Paris, 1900, pp. 178-184.)--H. C.]

In various parts of China, as in Che-kiang, Sze-ch'wan, and at Peking, they form powdered coal,
mixed with mud, into bricks, somewhat like our "patent fuel." This practice is noticed by Ibn
Batuta, as well as the use of coal in making porcelain, though this he seems to have misunderstood.
Rashiduddin also mentions the use of coal in China. It was in use, according to citations of
Pauthier's, before the Christian era. It is a popular belief in China, that every provincial
capital is bound to be established over a coal-field, so as to have a provision in case of
siege. It is said that during the British siege of Canton mines were opened to the north of
the city.

(The Distribution of Coal in China, by Baron Richthofen, in Ocean Highways, N.S., I. 311; Macgowan
in Ch. Repos. xix. 385-387; Blakiston, 133, 265; Mid. Kingdom, I. 73, 78; Amyot, xi. 334; Cathay,
261, 478, 482; Notes by Rev. A. Williamson in J. N. Ch. Br. R. A. S., December, 1867; Hedde
and Rondot, p. 63.)

Aeneas Sylvius relates as a miracle that took place before his eyes in Scotland, that poor
and almost naked beggars, when stones were given them as alms at the church doors, went away
quite delighted; for stones of that kind were imbued either with brimstone or with some oily
matter, so that they could be burnt instead of wood, of which the country was destitute. (Quoted
by Jos. Robertson, Statuta Eccles. Scotic.

You must know that when the Emperor sees that corn is cheap and abundant, he buys up large
quantities, and has it stored in all his provinces in great granaries, where it is so well
looked after that it will keep for three or four years.[NOTE 1]

And this applies, let me tell you, to all kinds of corn, whether wheat, barley, millet, rice,
panic, or what not, and when there is any scarcity of a particular kind of corn, he causes
that to be issued. And if the price of the corn is at one bezant the measure, he lets them
have it at a bezant for four measures, or at whatever price will produce general cheapness;
and every one can have food in this way. And by this providence of the Emperor's, his people
can never suffer from dearth. He does the same over his whole Empire; causing these supplies
to be stored everywhere, according to calculation of the wants and necessities of the people.

NOTE 1.--"Le fait si bien estuier que il dure bien trois ans ou quatre" (Pauthier): "si bien
estudier" (G.T.). The word may be estiver (It. stivare), to stow, but I half suspect it should
be estuver in the sense of "kiln-dry," though both the Geog. Latin and the Crusca render it
gubernare.[1] Lecomte says: "Rice is always stored in the public granaries for three or four
years in advance. It keeps long if care be taken to air it and stir it about; and although
not so good to the taste or look as new rice, it is said to be more wholesome."

The Archbishop of Soltania (A.D. 1330) speaks of these stores. "The said Emperor is very pitiful
and compassionate ... and so when there is a dearth in the land he openeth his garners, and
giveth forth of his wheat and his rice for half what others are selling it at." Kúblái Kaan's
measures of this kind are recorded in the annals of the Dynasty, as quoted by Pauthier. The
same practice is ascribed to the sovereigns of the T'ang Dynasty by the old Arab Relations.
In later days a missionary gives in the Lettres Edifiantes an unfavourable account of the action
of these public granaries, and of the rascality that occurred in connection with them. (Lecomte,
II. 101; Cathay, 240; Relat. I. 39; Let. Ed. xxiv. 76.)

[The Yuen-shi in ch. 96 contains sections on dispensaries (Hui min yao kü), granary regulations
(Shi ti), and regulations for a time of dearth (Chen Sü). (Bretschneider, Med. Res. I. p. 187.)--H.
C.]

[1] Marsden observes incidentally (Hist. of Sumatra, 1st edition, p. 71)
    that he was told in Bengal they used to dry-kiln the rice for
    exportation, "owing to which, or to some other process, it will
    continue good for several years."

CHAPTER XXXII.

OF THE CHARITY OF THE EMPEROR TO THE POOR.

I have told you how the Great Kaan provides for the distribution of necessaries to his people
in time of dearth, by making store in time of cheapness. Now I will tell you of his alms and
great charity to the poor of his city of Cambaluc.

You see he causes selection to be made of a number of families in the city which are in a state
of indigence, and of such families some may consist of six in the house, some of eight, some
of ten, more or fewer in each as it may hap, but the whole number being very great. And each
family he causes annually to be supplied with wheat and other corn sufficient for the whole
year. And this he never fails to do every year. Moreover, all those who choose to go to the
daily dole at the Court receive a great loaf apiece, hot from the baking, and nobody is denied;
for so the Lord hath ordered. And so some 30,000 people go for it every day from year's end
to year's end. Now this is a great goodness in the Emperor to take pity of his poor people
thus! And they benefit so much by it that they worship him as he were God.

[He also provides the poor with clothes. For he lays a tithe upon all wool, silk, hemp, and
the like, from which clothing can be made; and he has these woven and laid up in a building
set apart for the purpose; and as all artizans are bound to give a day's labour weekly, in
this way the Kaan has these stuffs made into clothing for those poor families, suitable for
summer or winter, according to the time of year. He also provides the clothing for his troops,
and has woollens woven for them in every city, the material for which is furnished by the tithe
aforesaid. You should know that the Tartars, before they were converted to the religion of
the Idolaters, never practised almsgiving. Indeed, when any poor man begged of them they would
tell him, "Go with God's curse, for if He loved you as He loves me, He would have provided
for you." But the sages of the Idolaters, and especially the Bacsis mentioned before, told
the Great Kaan that it was a good work to provide for the poor, and that his idols would be
greatly pleased if he did so. And since then he has taken to do for the poor so much as you
have heard.[NOTE 1]]

NOTE 1.--This is a curious testimony to an ameliorating effect of Buddhism on rude nations.
The general establishment of medical aid for men and animals is alluded to in the edicts of
Asoka;[1] and hospitals for the diseased and destitute were found by Fahian at Palibothra,
whilst Hiuen Tsang speaks of the distribution of food and medicine at the Punyasálás or "Houses
of Beneficence," in the Panjáb. Various examples of a charitable spirit in Chinese Institutions
will be found in a letter by Père d'Entrecolles in the XVth Recueil of Lettres Edifiantes;
and a similar detail in Nevius's China and the Chinese, ch. xv. (See Prinsep's Essays, II.
15; Beal's Fah-hian, 107; Pèl. Boudd. II. 190.) The Tartar sentiment towards the poor survives
on the Arctic shores:--"The Yakuts regard the rich as favoured by the gods; the poor as rejected
and cast out by them." (Billings, Fr. Tranls. I. 233.)

[1] As rendered by J. Prinsep. But I see that Professor H. H. Wilson did
    not admit the passage to bear that meaning.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

[CONCERNING THE ASTROLOGERS IN THE CITY OF CAMBALUC.]

[There are in the city of Cambaluc, what with Christians, Saracens, and Cathayans, some five
thousand astrologers and soothsayers, whom the Great Kaan provides with annual maintenance
and clothing, just as he provides the poor of whom we have spoken, and they are in the constant
exercise of their art in this city.

They have a kind of astrolabe on which are inscribed the planetary signs, the hours and critical
points of the whole year. And every year these Christian, Saracen, and Cathayan astrologers,
each sect apart, investigate by means of this astrolabe the course and character of the whole
year, according to the indications of each of its Moons, in order to discover by the natural
course and disposition of the planets, and the other circumstances of the heavens, what shall
be the nature of the weather, and what peculiarities shall be produced by each Moon of the
year; as, for example, under which Moon there shall be thunderstorms and tempests, under which
there shall be disease, murrain, wars, disorders, and treasons, and so on, according to the
indications of each; but always adding that it lies with God to do less or more according to
His pleasure. And they write down the results of their examination in certain little pamphlets
for the year, which are called Tacuin, and these are sold for a groat to all who desire to
know what is coming. Those of the astrologers, of course whose predictions are found to be
most exact, are held to be the greatest adepts in their art, and get the greater fame.[NOTE 1]

And if any one having some great matter in hand, or proposing to make a long journey for traffic
or other business, desires to know what will be the upshot, he goes to one of these astrologers
and says: "Turn up your books and see what is the present aspect of the heavens, for I am going
away on such and such a business." Then the astrologer will reply that the applicant must also
tell the year, month, and hour of his birth; and when he has got that information he will see
how the horoscope of his nativity combines with the indications of the time when the question
is put, and then he predicts the result, good or bad, according to the aspect of the heavens.
The Tacuim is full of predictions regarding war, pestilence, and famine; it indicates the favourable
time for putting on new clothes, for getting bled or purged, for making a journey, and so forth.
They put entire faith in it, and whoever can afford one governs himself in all things by its
rules." (Bk. V. ch. xiv.)

The use of the term by Marco may possibly be an illustration of what I have elsewhere propounded,
viz. that he was not acquainted with Chinese, but that his intercourse and conversation lay
chiefly with the foreigners at the Kaan's Court, and probably was carried on in the Persian
language. But not long after the date of our Book we find the word used in Italian by Jacopo
Alighieri (Dante's son):--

  "A voler giudicare
  Si conviene adequare
  Inprimo il Taccuino,
  Per vedere il cammino
  Come i Pianeti vanno
  Per tutto quanto l'anno."
      --Rime Antiche Toscane, III. 10.

Marco does not allude to the fact that almanacs were published by the Government, as they were
then and still are. Pauthier (515 seqq.) gives some very curious details on this subject from
the Annals of the Yuen. In the accounts of the year 1328, it appears that no less than 3,123,185
copies were printed in three different sizes at different prices, besides a separate almanac
for the Hwei-Hwei or Mahomedans. Had Polo not omitted to touch on the issue of almanacs by
Government he could scarcely have failed to enter on the subject of printing, on which he has
kept a silence so singular and unaccountable.

The Chinese Government still "considers the publication of a Calendar of the first importance
and utility. It must do everything in its power, not only to point out to its numerous subjects
the distribution of the seasons,... but on account of the general superstition it must mark
in the almanac the lucky and unlucky days, the best days for being married, for undertaking
a journey, for making their dresses, for buying or building, for presenting petitions to the
Emperor, and for many other cases of ordinary life. By this means the Government keeps the
people within the limits of humble obedience; it is for this reason that the Emperors of China
established the Academy of Astronomy." (Timk. I. 358.) The acceptance of the Imperial Almanac
by a foreign Prince is considered an acknowledgment of vassalage to the Emperor.

It is a penal offence to issue a pirated or counterfeit edition of the Government Almanac.
No one ventures to be without one, lest he become liable to the greatest misfortunes by undertaking
the important measures on black-balled days.

The price varies now, according to Williams, from 1-1/2d. to 5d. a copy. The price in 1328
was 1 tsien or cash for the cheapest edition, and 1 liang or tael of silver for the édition
de luxe; but as these prices were in paper-money it is extremely difficult to say, in the varying
depreciation of that currency, what the price really amounted to.

["The Calendars for the use of the people, published by Imperial command, are of two kinds.
The first, Wan-nien-shu, the Calendar of Ten Thousand Years, is an abridgment of the Calendar,
comprising 397 years, viz. from 1624 to 2020. The second and more complete Calendar is the
Annual Calendar, which, under the preceding dynasties, was named Li-je, Order of Days, and
is now called Shih-hsien-shu, Book of Constant Conformity (with the Heavens). This name was
given by the Emperor Shun-chih, in the first year of his reign (1644), on being presented by
Father John Schall (Tang Jo-wang) with a new Calendar, calculated on the principles of European
science. This Annual Calendar gives the following indications: (1°) The cyclical signs of the
current year, of the months, and of all the days; (2°) the long and short months, as well as
the intercalary month, as the case maybe; (3°) the designation of each day by the 5 elements,
the 28 constellations, and the 12 happy presages; (4°) the day and hour of the new moon, of
the full moon, and of the two dichotomies, Shang-hsien and Hsia-hsien; (5°) the day and hour
for the positions of the sun in the 24 zodiacal signs, calculated for the various capitals
of China as well as for Manchuria, Mongolia, and the tributary Kingdoms; (6°) the hour of sunrise
and sunset and the length of day and night for the principal days of the month in the several
capitals; (7°) various superstitious indications purporting to point out what days and hours
are auspicious or not for such or such affairs in different places. Those superstitious indications
are stated to have been introduced into the Calendar under the Yüan dynasty." (P. Hoang, Chinese
Calendar, pp. 2-3.)--H. C.]

We may note that in Polo's time one of the principal officers of the Mathematical Board was
Gaisue, a native of Folin or the Byzantine Empire, who was also in charge of the medical department
of the Court. Regarding the Observatory, see note at p. 378, supra.

And I am indebted yet again to the generous zeal of Mr. Wylie of Shanghai, for the principal
notes and extracts which will, I trust, satisfy others as well as myself that the instruments
in the garden of the Observatory belong to the period of Marco Polo's residence in China.[1]

The objections to the alleged age of these instruments were entirely based on an inspection
of photographs. The opinion was given very strongly that no instrument of the kind, so perfect
in theory and in execution, could have been even imagined in those days, and that nothing of
such scientific quality could have been made except by the Jesuits. In fact it was asserted
or implied that these instruments must have been made about the year 1700, and were therefore
not earlier in age than those which stand on the terraced roof of the Observatory, and are
well known to most of us from the representation in Duhalde and in many popular works.

The only authority that I could lay hand on was Lecomte, and what he says was not conclusive.
I extract the most pertinent passages:

"It was on the terrace of the tower that the Chinese astronomers had set their instruments,
and though few in number they occupied the whole area. But Father Verbiest, the Director of
the Observatory, considering them useless for astronomical observation, persuaded the Emperor
to let them be removed, to make way for several instruments of his own construction. The instruments
set aside by the European astronomers are still in a hall adjoining the tower, buried in dust
and oblivion; and we saw them only through a grated window. They appeared to us to be very
large and well cast, in form approaching our astronomical circles; that is all that we could
make out. There was, however, thrown into a back yard by itself, a celestial globe of bronze,
of about 3 feet in diameter. Of this we were able to take a nearer view. Its form was somewhat
oval; the divisions by no means exact, and the whole work coarse enough.

"Besides this in a lower hall they had established a gnomon.... This observatory, not worthy
of much consideration for its ancient instruments, much less for its situation, its form, or
its construction, is now enriched by several bronze instruments which Father Verbiest has placed
there. These are large, well cast, adorned in every case with figures of dragons," etc. He
then proceeds to describe them:

"(1). Armillary Zodiacal Sphere of 6 feet diameter. This sphere reposes on the heads of four
dragons, the bodies of which after various convolutions come to rest upon the extremities of
two brazen beams forming a cross, and thus bear the entire weight of the instrument. These
dragons ... are represented according to the notion the Chinese form of them, enveloped in
clouds, covered above the horns with long hair, with a tufted beard on the lower jaw, flaming
eyes, long sharp teeth, the gaping throat ever vomiting a torrent of fire. Four lion-cubs of
the same material bear the ends of the cross beams, and the heads of these are raised or depressed
by means of attached screws, according to what is required. The circles are divided on both
exterior and interior surface into 360 degrees; each degree into 60 minutes by transverse lines,
and the minutes into sections of 10 seconds each by the sight-edge[2] applied to them."

Of Verbiest's other instruments we need give only the names: (2) Equinoxial Sphere, 6 feet
diameter. (3) Azimuthal Horizon, same diam. (4) Great Quadrant, of 6 feet radius. (5) Sextant
of about 8 feet radius. (6) Celestial Globe of 6 feet diameter.

As Lecomte gives no details of the old instruments which he saw through a grating, and as the
description of this zodiacal sphere (No. 1) corresponds in some of its main features with that
represented in the photograph, I could not but recognize the possibility that this instrument
of Verbiest's had for some reason or other been removed from the Terrace, and that the photograph
might therefore possibly not be a representation of one of the ancient instruments displaced
by him.[3]

The question having been raised it was very desirable to settle it, and I applied to Mr. Wylie
for information, as I had received the photographs from him, and knew that he had been Mr.
Thomson's companion and helper in the matter.

"Let me assure you," he writes (21st August, 1874), "the Jesuits had nothing to do with the
manufacture of the so-called Mongol instruments; and whoever made them, they were certainly
on the Peking Observatory before Loyola was born. They are not made for the astronomical system
introduced by the Jesuits, but are altogether conformable to the system introduced by Kúblái's
astronomer Ko Show-king.... I will mention one thing which is quite decisive as to the Jesuits.
The circle is divided into 365-1/4 degrees, each degree into 100 minutes, and each minute into
100 seconds. The Jesuits always used the sexagesimal division. Lecomte speaks of the imperfection
of the division on the Jesuit-made instruments; but those on the Mongol instruments are immeasurably
coarser.

"I understand it is not the ornamentation your friend objects to?[4] If it is, I would observe
that there is no evidence of progress in the decorative and ornamental arts during the Ming
Dynasty; and even in the Jesuit instruments that part of the work is purely Chinese, excepting
in one instrument, which I am persuaded must have been made in Europe.

"I have a Chinese work called Luh-King-t'oo-Kaou, 'Illustrations and Investigations of the
Six Classics.' This was written in A.D. 1131-1162, and revised and printed in 1165-1174. It
contains a representation of an armillary sphere, which appears to me to be much the same as
the sphere in question. There is a solid horizon fixed to a graduated outer circle. Inside
the latter is a meridian circle, at right angles to which is a graduated colure; then the equator,
apparently a double ring, and the ecliptic; also two diametric bars. The cut is rudely executed,
but it certainly shows that some one imagined something more perfect. The instrument stands
on a cross frame, with 4 dragon supporters and a prop in the centre.[5]

"It should be remembered that under the Mongol Dynasty the Chinese had much intercourse with
Central Asia; and among others Yelewchootsae, as confidential minister and astronomer, followed
Chinghiz in his Western campaign, held intercourse with the astronomers of Samarkand, and on
his return laid some astronomical inventions before the Emperor.

"I append a notice of the Observatory taken from a popular description of Peking, by which
it will be seen that the construction of these instruments is attributed to Ko Show-king, one
of the most renowned astronomers of China. He was the chief astronomer under Kúblái Kaan" [to
whom he was presented in 1262; he was born in 1231.--H. C.]

"It must be remembered that there was a special vitality among the Chinese under the Yuen with
regard to the arts and sciences, and the Emperor had the choice of artizans and men of science
from all countries. From the age of the Yuen till the arrival of the Jesuits, we hear nothing
of any new instruments having been made; and it is well known that astronomy was never in a
lower condition than under the Ming."[6]

Mr. Wylie then draws attention to the account given by Trigault of the instruments that Matteo
Ricci saw at Nanking, when he went (in the year 1599) to pay a visit to some of the literati
of that city. He transcribes the account from the French Hist. de l'Expédition Chrestienne
en la Chine, 1618. But as I have the Latin, which is the original and is more lucid, by me,
I will translate from that.[7]

"Not only at Peking, but in this capital also (Nanking) there is a College of Chinese Mathematicians,
and this one certainly is more distinguished by the vastness of its buildings than by the skill
of its professors. They have little talent and less learning, and do nothing beyond the preparation
of the almanacs on the rules of calculation made by the ancients; and when it chances that
events do not agree with their calculation they assert that what they had calculated was the
regular course of things, but that the aberrant conduct of the stars was a prognostic from
heaven of something going to happen on the earth. This something they make out according to
their fancy, and so spread a veil over their own blunders. These gentlemen did not much trust
Father Matteo, fearing, no doubt, lest he should put them to shame; but when at last they were
freed from this apprehension they came and amicably visited the Father in hope of learning
something from him. And when he went to return their visit he saw something that really was
new and beyond his expectation.

"There is a high hill at one side of the city, but still within the walls. On the top of the
hill there is an ample terrace, capitally adapted for astronomical observation, and surrounded
by magnificent buildings which form the residence of the Professors.... On this terrace are
to be seen astronomical instruments of cast-metal, well worthy of inspection whether for size
or for beauty; and we certainly have never seen or read of anything in Europe like them. For
nearly 250 years they have stood thus exposed to the rain, the snow, and all other atmospheric
inclemencies, and yet they have lost absolutely nothing of their original lustre. And lest
I should be accused of raising expectations which I do not justify, I will do my best in a
digression, probably not unwelcome, to bring them before the eyes of my readers.

"The larger of these instruments were four in number. First we inspected a great globe [A],
graduated with meridians and parallels; we estimated that three men would hardly be able to
embrace its girth.... A second instrument was a great sphere [B], not less in diameter than
that measure of the outstretched arms which is commonly called a geometric pace. It had a horizon
and poles; instead of circles it was provided with certain double hoops (armillae), the void
space between the pair serving the purpose of the circles of our spheres. All these were divided
into 365 degrees and some odd minutes. There was no globe to represent the earth in the centre,
but there was a certain tube, bored like a gun-barrel, which could readily be turned about
and fixed to any azimuth or any altitude so as to observe any particular star through the tube,
just as we do with our vane-sights;[8]--not at all a despicable device! The third machine was
a gnomon [C], the height of which was twice the diameter of the former instrument, erected
on a very large and long slab of marble, on the northern side of the terrace. The stone slab
had a channel cut round the margin, to be filled with water in order to determine whether the
slab was level or not, and the style was set vertical as in hour-dials.[9] We may suppose this
gnomon to have been erected that by its aid the shadow at the solstices and equinoxes might
be precisely noted, for in that view both the slab and the style were graduated. The fourth
and last instrument, and the largest of all, was one consisting as it were of three or four
huge astrolabes in juxtaposition [D]; each of them having a diameter of such a geometrical
pace as I have specified. The fiducial line, or Alhidada, as it is called, was not lacking,
nor yet the Dioptra.[10] Of these astrolabes, one having a tilted position in the direction
of the south, represented the equator; a second, which stood crosswise on the first, in a north
and south plane, the Father took for a meridian; but it could be turned round on its axis;
a third stood in the meridian plane with its axis perpendicular, and seemed to stand for a
vertical circle; but this also could be turned round so as to show any vertical whatever. Moreover
all these were graduated, and the degrees marked by prominent studs of iron, so that in the
night the graduation could be read by the touch without a light. All this compound astrolabe
instrument was erected on a level marble platform with channels round it for levelling. On
each of these instruments explanations of everything were given in Chinese characters; and
there were also engraved the 24 zodiacal constellations which answer to our 12 signs, 2 to
each.[11] There was, however, one error common to all the instruments, viz. that, in all, the
elevation of the Pole was assumed to be 36°. Now there can be no question about the fact that
the city of Nanking lies in lat. 32-1/4°; whence it would seem probable that these instruments
were made for another locality, and had been erected at Nanking, without reference to its position,
by some one ill versed in mathematical science.[12]

"Some years afterwards Father Matteo saw similar instruments at Peking, or rather the same
instruments, so exactly alike were they, insomuch that they had unquestionably been made by
the same artist. And indeed it is known that they were cast at the period when the Tartars
were dominant in China; and we may without rashness conjecture that they were the work of some
foreigner acquainted with our studies. But it is time to have done with these instruments."--(Lib.
IV. cap. 5.)

In this interesting description it will be seen that the Armillary Sphere [B] agrees entirely
with that represented in illustration facing p. 450. And the second of his photographs in my
possession, but not, I believe, yet published, answers perfectly to the curious description
of the 4th instrument [D]. Indeed, I should scarcely have been able to translate that description
intelligibly but for the aid of the photograph before me. It shows the three astrolabes or
graduated circles with travelling indexes arranged exactly as described, and pivoted on a complex
frame of bronze; (1) circle in the plane of the equator for measuring right ascensions; (2)
circle with its axis vertical to the plane of the last, for measuring declinations: (3) circle
with vertical axis, for zenith distances? The Gnomon [A] was seen by Mr. Wylie in one of the
lower rooms of the Observatory (see below). Of the Globe we do not now hear; and that mentioned
by Lecomte among the ancient instruments was inferior to what Ricci describes at Peking.

I now transcribe Mr. Wylie's translation of an extract from a Popular Description of Peking:

"The observatory is on an elevated stage on the city wall, in the south-east corner of the
(Tartar) city, and was built in the year (A.D. 1279). In the centre was the Tze-wei[13] Palace,
inside of which were a pair of scrolls, and a cross inscription, by the imperial hand. Formerly
it contained the Hwan-t'ien-e [B] 'Armillary Sphere'; the Keen-e [D?] 'Transit Instrument'
(?); the Tung-kew [A] 'Brass Globe'; and the Leang-t'ien-ch'ih, 'Sector,' which were constructed
by Ko Show-king under the Yuen Dynasty.

"In (1673) the old instruments having stood the wear of long past years, had become almost
useless, and six new instruments were made by imperial authority. These were the T'ien-t'ee
'Celestial Globe' (6); Chih-taoue 'Equinoctial Sphere' (2); Hwang-taoue 'Zodiacal Sphere' (1);
Te-p'ing kinge 'Azimuthal Horizon' (3); Te-p'ing weie 'Altitude Instrument' (4); Ke-yene 'Sextant'
(5). These were placed in the Observatory, and to the present day are respectfully used. The
old instruments were at the same time removed, and deposited at the foot of the stage. In (1715)
the Te-ping King-wei-e 'Azimuth and Altitude Instrument' was made;[14] and in 1744 the Ke-hang-foo-chin-e
(literally 'Sphere and Tube instrument for sweeping the heavens'). All these were placed on
the Observatory stage.

"There is a wind-index-pole called the 'Fair-wind-pennon,' on which is an iron disk marked
out in 28 points, corresponding in number to the 28 constellations."[15]

+ Mr. Wylie justly observes that the evidence is all in accord, and it leaves, I think, no
reasonable room for doubt that the instruments now in the Observatory garden at Peking are
those which were cast aside by Father Verbiest[16] in 1673 (or 1668); which Father Ricci saw
at Peking at the beginning of the century, and of which he has described the duplicates at
Nanking; and which had come down from the time of the Mongols, or, more precisely, of Kúblái Khan.

Ricci speaks of their age as nearly 250 years in 1599; Verbiest as nearly 300 years in 1668.
But these estimates evidently point to the termination of the Mongol Dynasty (1368), to which
the Chinese would naturally refer their oral chronology. We have seen that Kúblái's reign was
the era of flourishing astronomy, and that the instruments are referred to his astronomer Ko
Shéu-king; nor does there seem any ground for questioning this. In fact, it being once established
that the instruments existed when the Jesuits entered China, all the objections fall to the ground.

We may observe that the number of the ancient instruments mentioned in the popular Chinese
account agrees with the number of important instruments described by Ricci, and the titles
of three at least out of the four seem to indicate the same instruments. The catalogue of the
new instruments of 1673 (or 1668) given in the native work also agrees exactly with that given
by Lecomte.[17] And in reference to my question as to the possibility that one of Verbiest's
instruments might have been removed from the terrace to the garden, it is now hardly worth
while to repeat Mr. Wylie's assurance that there is no ground whatever for such a supposition.
The instruments represented by Lecomte are all still on the terrace, only their positions have
been somewhat altered to make room for the two added in last century.

Probably, says Mr. Wylie, more might have been added from Chinese works, especially the biography
of Ko Shéu-king. But my kind correspondent was unable to travel beyond the books on his own
shelves. Nor was it needful.

It will have been seen that, beautiful as the art and casting of these instruments is, it would
be a mistake to suppose that they are entitled to equally high rank in scientific accuracy.
Mr. Wylie mentioned the question that had been started to Freiherr von Gumpach, who was for
some years Professor of Astronomy in the Peking College. Whilst entirely rejecting the doubts
that had been raised as to the age of the Mongol instruments, he said that he had seen those
of Tycho Brahe, and the former are quite unworthy to be compared with Tycho's in scientific
accuracy.

The doubts expressed have been useful in drawing attention to these remarkable reliques of
the era of Kúblái's reign, and of Marco Polo's residence in Cathay, though I fear they are
answerable for having added some pages to a work that required no enlargement!

[Mr. Wylie sent a most valuable paper on The Mongol Astronomical Instruments at Peking to the
Congress of Orientalists held at St. Petersburg, which was reprinted at Shanghai in 1897 in
Chinese Researches. Some of the astronomical instruments have been removed to Potsdam by the
Germans since the siege of the foreign Legations at Peking in 1900.--H. C.]

On these auguries, and on diviners and fortune-tellers, see Semedo, p. 118 seqq.; Kidd, p.
313 (also for preceding references, Mid. Kingdom, II. 152; Gaubil, 136).

NOTE 2.-- + The real cycle of the Mongols, which was also that of the Chinese, runs: 1. Rat;
2. Ox; 3. Tiger; 4. Hare; 5. Dragon; 6. Serpent; 7. Horse; 8. Sheep; 9. Ape; 10. Cock; 11.
Dog; 12. Swine. But as such a cycle [12 earthly branches, Ti-chih] is too short to avoid confusion,
it is combined with a co-efficient cycle of ten epithets [celestial Stems, T'ien-kan] in such
wise as to produce a 60-year cycle of compound names before the same shall recur. These co-efficient
epithets are found in four different forms: (1) From the Elements: Wood, Fire, Earth, Metal,
Water, attaching to each a masculine and feminine attribute so as to make ten epithets. (2)
From the Colours: Blue, Red, Yellow, White, Black, similarly treated. (3) By terms without
meaning in Mongol, directly adopted or imitated from the Chinese, Ga, Yi, Bing, Ting, etc.
(4) By the five Cardinal Points: East, South, Middle, West, North. Thus 1864 was the first
year of a 60-year cycle:--

  1864 = (Masc.) Wood-Rat Year    = (Masc.) Blue-Rat Year.
  1865 = (Fem.)  Wood-Ox Year     = (Fem.)  Blue-Ox Year.
  1866 = (Masc.) Fire-Tiger Year  = (Masc.) Red-Tiger Year.
  1867 = (Fem.)  Fire-Hare Year   = (Fem.)  Red-Hare Year.
  1923 = (Fem.)  Water-Swine Year = (Fem.)  Black-Swine Year.

And then a new cycle commences just as before.

This Calendar was carried by the Mongols into all their dominions, and it would appear to have
long survived them in Persia. Thus a document issued in favour of Sir John Chardin by the Shaikh-ul-Islám
of Ispahan, bears the strange date for a Mahomedan luminary of "The year of the Swine." The
Hindus also had a 60-year cycle, but with them each year had an independent name.

The Mongols borrowed their system from the Chinese, who attribute its invention to the Emperor
Hwang-ti, and its initiation to the 61st year of his reign, corresponding to B.C. 2637. ["It
was Ta-nao, Minister to the Emperor Hwang-ti, who, by command of his Sovereign, devised the
sexagenary cycle. Hwang-ti began to reign 2697 B.C., and the 61st year of his reign was taken
for the first cyclical sign." P. Hoang, Chinese Calendar; p. 11.--H. C.] The characters representing
what we have called the ten coefficient epithets are called by the Chinese the "Heavenly Stems";
those equivalent to the twelve animal symbols are the "Earthly Branches," and they are applied
in their combinations not to years only, but to cycles of months, days, and hours, such hours
being equal to two of ours. Thus every year, month, day, and hour will have two appropriate
characters, and the four pairs belonging to the time of any man's birth constitute what the
Chinese call the "Eight Characters" of his age, to which constant reference is made in some
of their systems of fortune-telling, and in the selection of propitious days for the transaction
of business. To this system the text alludes. A curious account of the principles of prognostication
on such a basis will be found in Doolittle's Social Life of the Chinese (p. 579 seqq.; on the
Calendar, see Schmidt's Preface to S. Setzen; Pallas, Sammlungen, II. 228 seqq.; Prinsep's
Essays, Useful Tables, 146.)

["Kubilai Khan established in Peking two astronomical boards and two observatories. One of
them was a Chinese Observatory (sze t'ien t'ai), the other a Mohammedan Observatory (hui hui
sze t'ien t'ai), each with its particular astronomical and chronological systems, its particular
astrology and instruments. The first astronomical and calendar system was compiled for the
Mongols by Ye-liu Ch'u-ts'ai, who was in Chingis Khan's service, not only as a high counsellor,
but also as an astronomer and astrologer. After having been convinced of the obsoleteness and
incorrectness of the astronomical calculations in the Ta ming li (the name of the calendar
system of the Kin Dynasty), he thought out at the time he was at Samarcand a new system, valid
not only for China, but also for the countries conquered by the Mongols in Western Asia, and
named it in memory of Chingis Khan's expedition Si ching keng wu yüan li, i.e., 'Astronomical
Calendar beginning with the year Keng wu, compiled during the war in the west.' Keng-wu was
the year 1210 of our era. Ye-liu Ch'u-ts'ai chose this year, and the moment of the winter solstice,
for the beginning of his period; because, according to his calculations, it coincided with
the beginning of a new astronomical or planetary period. He took also into consideration, that
since the year 1211 Chingis Khan's glory had spread over the whole world. Ye-liu Ch'u-ts'ai's
calendar was not adopted in China, but the system of it is explained in the Yuen-shi, in the
section on Astronomy and the Calendar.

"In the year 1267, the Mohammedans presented to Kubilai their astronomical calendar (wan nien
li, i.e.), the calendar of ten thousand years. By taking this denomination in its literal sense,
we may conclude that the Mahommedans brought to China the ancient Persian system, founded on
the period of 10,000 years. The compilers of the Yuen-shi seem not to have had access to documents
relating to this system, for they give no details about it. Finally by order of Kubilai the
astronomers Hui-Heng and Ko Show-King composed a new calculation under the name of Shou-shi-li
which came into use from the year 1280. It is thoroughly explained in the Yuen-shi. Notwithstanding
the fame this system generally enjoyed, its blemishes came soon to light. In the sixth month
of 1302 an eclipse of the sun happened, and the calculation of the astronomer proved to be
erroneous (it seems the calculation had anticipated the real time). The astronomers of the
Ming Dynasty explained the errors in the Shou-shi-li by the circumstance, that in that calculation
the period for one degree of precession of the equinox was taken too long (eighty-one years).
But they were themselves hardly able to overcome these difficulties." (Palladius, pp. 51-53.)--H.
C.]

[1] Besides the works quoted in the text I have only been able to consult
    Gaubil's notices, as abstracted in Lalande; and the Introductory
    Remarks to Mr. J. Williams's Observations of Comets ... extracted
    from the Chinese Annals, London, 1871.

[2] Pinnula. The French pinnule is properly a sight-vane at the end of
    a traversing bar. The transverse lines imply that minutes were read
    by the system of our diagonal scales; and these I understand to have
    been subdivided still further by aid of a divided edge attached to the
    sight-vane; qu. a Vernier?

[3] Verbiest himself speaks of the displaced instruments thus ... "ut nova
    instrumenta astronomica facienda mihi imponeret, quae scilicet more
    Europaeo affabre facta, et in specula Astroptica Pekinensi collocata,
    aeternam Imperii Tartarici memoriam apud posteritatem servarent,
    prioribus instrumentis Sinicis rudioris Minervae, quae jam a
    trecentis proxime annis speculam occupabant, inde amotis.
    Imperator statim annuit illorum postulatis. et totius rei curam,
    publico diplomate mihi imposuit. Ego itaque intra quadriennis spatium
    sex diversi generis instrumenta confeci." This is from an account of
    the Observatory written by Verbiest himself, and printed at Peking in
    1668 (Liber Organicus Astronomiae Europaeae apud Sinas Restitutae,
    etc.). My friend Mr. D. Hanbury made the extract from a copy of this
    rare book in the London Institution Library. An enlarged edition was
    published in Europe. (Dillingen, 1687.)

[4] On the contrary, he considered the photographs interesting, as showing
    to how late a period the art of fine casting had endured.

[5] This ancient instrument is probably the same that is engraved in
    Pauthier's Chine Ancienne under the title of "The Sphere of the
    Emperor Shun" (B.C. 2255!).

[6] After the death of Kúblái astronomy fell into neglect, and when
    Hongwu, the first Ming sovereign, took the throne (1368) the subject
    was almost forgotten. Nor was there any revival till the time of
    Ching. The latter was a prince who in 1573 associated himself with the
    astronomer Hing-yun-lu to reform the state of astronomy. (Gaubil.)

    What Ricci has recorded (in Trigautius) of the dense ignorance of the
    Chinese literati in astronomical matters is entirely consistent with
    the preceding statements.

[7] I had entirely forgotten to look at Trigault till Mr. Wylie sent me
    the extract. The copy I use (De Christianá Expeditione apud Sinas ...
    Auct. Nicolao Trigautio) is of Lugdun. 1616. The first edition was
    published at August. Vindelicorum (Augsburg) in 1615: the French, at
    Lyons, in 1616.

[8] "Pinnulis."

[9] "Et stilus eo modo quo in horologiis ad perpendiculum collocatus."

[10] The Alidada is the traversing index bar which carries the
    dioptra, pinnules, or sight-vanes. The word is found in some older
    English Dictionaries, and in France and Italy is still applied to the
    traversing index of a plane table or of a sextant. Littré derives it
    from (Ar.) 'adád, enumeration; but it is really from a quite
    different word, al-idádat [Arabic] "a door-post," which is found in
    this sense in an Arabic treatise on the Astrolabe. (See Dozy and
    Engelmann, p. 140.)

[11] This is an error of Ricci's, as Mr. Wylie observes, or of his
    reporter.

    The Chinese divide their year into 24 portions of 15 days each.
    Of these 24 divisions twelve called Kung mark the twelve places in
    which the sun and moon come into conjunction, and are thus in some
    degree analogous to our 12 signs of the Zodiac. The names of these
    Kung are entirely different from those of our sign, though since the
    17th century the Western Zodiac, with paraphrased names, has been
    introduced in some of their books. But besides that, they divide the
    heavens into 28 stellar spaces. The correspondence of this division to
    the Hindu system of the 28 Lunar Mansions, called Nakshatras, has
    given rise to much discussion. The Chinese sieu or stellar spaces
    are excessively unequal, varying from 24° in equatorial extent down to
    24'. (Williams, op. cit.) [See P. Hoang, supra p. 449.]

[12] Mr. Wylie is inclined to distrust the accuracy of this remark, as the
    only city nearly on the 36th parallel is P'ing-yang fu.

    But we have noted in regard to this (Polo's Pianfu, vol. ii. p. 17)
    that a college for the education of Mongol youth was instituted here,
    by the great minister Yeliu Chutsai, whose devotion to astronomy Mr.
    Wylie has noticed above. In fact, two colleges were established by
    him, one at Yenking, i.e. Peking, the other at P'ing-yang; and
    astronomy is specified as one of the studies to be pursued at these.
    (See D'Ohsson, II. 71-72, quoting De Mailla.) It seems highly
    probable that the two sets of instruments were originally intended for
    these two institutions, and that one set was carried to Nanking, when
    the Ming set their capital there in 1368.

[13] The 28 sieu or stellar spaces, above spoken of, do not extend to
    the Pole; they are indeed very unequal in extent on the meridian as
    well as on the equator. And the area in the northern sky not embraced
    in them is divided into three large spaces called Yuen or
    enclosures, of which the field of circumpolar stars (or circle of
    perpetual apparition) forms one which is called Tze-Wei.
    (Williams.)

    The southern circumpolar stars form a fourth space, beyond the 28
    sieu. Ibid.

[14] "This was obviously made in France. There is nothing Chinese about
    it, either in construction or ornament. It is very different from all
    the others." (Note by Mr. Wylie.)

[15] "There follows a minute description of the brass clepsydra, and the
    brass gnomon, which it is unnecessary to translate. I have seen both
    these instruments, in two of the lower rooms."--Id.

[16] [Ferdinand Verbiest, S.J., was born at Pitthens, near Courtrai; he
    arrived in China in 1659 and died at Peking on the 29th January,
    1688.--H. C.]

[17] We have attached letters A, B, C, to indicate the correspondences of
    the ancient instruments, and cyphers 1, 2, 3, to indicate the
    correspondences of the modern instruments.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

[CONCERNING THE RELIGION OF THE CATHAYANS;[NOTE 1] THEIR VIEWS AS TO THE SOUL; AND THEIR CUSTOMS.

As we have said before, these people are Idolaters, and as regards their gods, each has a tablet
fixed high up on the wall of his chamber, on which is inscribed a name which represents the
Most High and Heavenly God; and before this they pay daily worship, offering incense from a
thurible, raising their hands aloft, and gnashing their teeth[NOTE 2] three times, praying
Him to grant them health of mind and body; but of Him they ask nought else. And below on the
ground there is a figure which they call Natigai, which is the god of things terrestrial. To
him they give a wife and children, and they worship him in the same manner, with incense, and
gnashing of teeth,[NOTE 2] and lifting up of hands; and of him they ask seasonable weather,
and the fruits of the earth, children, and so forth.[NOTE 3]

Their view of the immortality of the soul is after this fashion. They believe that as soon
as a man dies, his soul enters into another body, going from a good to a better, or from a
bad to a worse, according as he hath conducted himself well or ill. That is to say, a poor
man, if he have passed through life good and sober, shall be born again of a gentlewoman, and
shall be a gentleman; and on a second occasion shall be born of a princess and shall be a prince,
and so on, always rising, till he be absorbed into the Deity. But if he have borne himself
ill, he who was the son of a gentleman shall be reborn as the son of a boor, and from a boor
shall become a dog, always going down lower and lower.

The people have an ornate style of speech; they salute each other with a cheerful countenance,
and with great politeness; they behave like gentlemen, and eat with great propriety.[NOTE 4]
They show great respect to their parents; and should there be any son who offends his parents,
or fails to minister to their necessities, there is a public office which has no other charge
but that of punishing unnatural children, who are proved to have acted with ingratitude towards
their parents.[NOTE 5]

Criminals of sundry kinds who have been imprisoned, are released at a time fixed by the Great
Kaan (which occurs every three years), but on leaving prison they are branded on one cheek
that they may be recognized.

The Great Kaan hath prohibited all gambling and sharping, things more prevalent there than
in any other part of the world. In doing this, he said: "I have conquered you by force of arms,
and all that you have is mine; if, therefore, you gamble away your property, it is in fact
my property that you are gambling away." Not that he took anything from them however.

I must not omit to tell you of the orderly way in which the Kaan's Barons and others conduct
themselves in coming to his presence. In the first place, within a half mile of the place where
he is, out of reverence for his exalted majesty, everybody preserves a mien of the greatest
meekness and quiet, so that no noise of shrill voices or loud talk shall be heard. And every
one of the chiefs and nobles carries always with him a handsome little vessel to spit in whilst
he remain in the Hall of Audience--for no one dares spit on the floor of the hall,--and when
he hath spitten he covers it up and puts it aside.[NOTE 6] So also they all have certain handsome
buskins of white leather, which they carry with them, and, when summoned by the sovereign,
on arriving at the entrance to the hall, they put on these white buskins, and give their others
in charge to the servants, in order that they may not foul the fine carpets of silk and gold
and divers colours.]

NOTE 1.--Ramusio's heading has Tartars, but it is manifestly of the Cathayans or Chinese that
the author speaks throughout this chapter.

NOTE 2.--"Sbattendo i denti." This is almost certainly, as Marsden has noticed, due to some
error of transcription. Probably Battono i fronti, or something similar, was the true reading.
[See following note, p. 461.--H. C.]

NOTE 3.--The latter part of this passage has, I doubt not, been more or less interpolated,
seeing that it introduces again as a Chinese divinity the rude object of primitive Tartar worship,
of which we have already heard in Bk. I. ch. liii. And regarding the former part of the passage,
one cannot but have some doubt whether what was taken for the symbol of the Most High was not
the ancestral tablet, which is usually placed in one of the inner rooms of the house, and before
which worship is performed at fixed times, and according to certain established forms. Something,
too, may have been known of the Emperor's worship of Heaven at the great circular temple at
Peking, called T'ien-t'ân, or Altar of Heaven (see p. 459), where incensed offerings are made
before a tablet, on which is inscribed the name Yuh-Hwang Shang-ti, which some interpret as
"The Supreme Ruler of the Imperial Heavens," and regard as the nearest approach to pure Theism
of which there is any indication in Chinese worship (See Doolittle, pp. 170, 625; and Lockhart
in J. R. G. S., xxxvi. 142). This worship is mentioned by the Mahomedan narrator of Shah Rukh's
embassy (1421): "Every year there are some days on which the Emperor eats no animal food....
He spends his time in an apartment which contains no idol, and says that he is worshipping
the God of Heaven."[1] (Ind. Antiquary, II. 81.)

The charge of irreligion against the Chinese is an old one, and is made by Hayton in nearly
the same terms as it often is by modern missionaries: "And though these people have the acutest
intelligence in all matters wherein material things are concerned, yet you shall never find
among them any knowledge or perception of spiritual things." Yet it is a mistake to suppose
that this insensibility has been so universal as it is often represented. To say nothing of
the considerable numbers who have adhered faithfully to the Roman Catholic Church, the large
number of Mahomedans in China, of whom many must have been proselytes, indicates an interest
in religion; and that Buddhism itself was in China once a spiritual power of no small energy
will, I think, be plain to any one who reads the very interesting extracts in Schott's essay
on Buddhism in Upper Asia and China. (Berlin Acad. of Sciences, 1846.) These seem to be so
little known that I will translate two or three of them. "In the years Yuan-yeu of the Sung
(A.D. 1086-1093), a pious matron with her two servants lived entirely to the Land of Enlightenment.
One of the maids said one day to her companion: 'To-night I shall pass over to the Realm of
Amita.' The same night a balsamic odour filled the house, and the maid died without any preceding
illness. On the following day the surviving maid said to the lady: 'Yesterday my deceased companion
appeared to me in a dream, and said to me: "Thanks to the persevering exhortations of our mistress,
I am become a partaker of Paradise, and my blessedness is past all expression in words."' The
matron replied: 'If she will appear to me also then I will believe what you say.' Next night
the deceased really appeared to her, and saluted her with respect. The lady asked: 'May I,
for once, visit the Land of Enlightenment?' 'Yea,' answered the Blessed Soul, 'thou hast but
to follow thy handmaiden.' The lady followed her (in her dream), and soon perceived a lake
of immeasurable expanse, overspread with innumerable red and white lotus flowers, of various
sizes, some blooming, some fading. She asked what those flowers might signify? The maiden replied:
'These are all human beings on the earth whose thoughts are turned to the Land of Enlightenment.
The very first longing after the Paradise of Amita produces a flower in the Celestial Lake,
and this becomes daily larger and more glorious, as the self-improvement of the person whom
it represents advances; in the contrary case, it loses in glory and fades away.'[2] The matron
desired to know the name of an enlightened one who reposed on one of the flowers, clad in a
waving and wondrously glistening raiment. Her whilom maiden answered: 'That is Yangkie.' Then
asked she the name of another, and was answered: 'That is Mahu.' The lady then said: 'At what
place shall I hereafter come into existence?' Then the Blessed Soul led her a space further,
and showed her a hill that gleamed with gold and azure. 'Here,' said she, 'is your future abode.
You will belong to the first order of the blessed.' When the matron awoke she sent to enquire
for Yangkie and Mahu. The first was already departed; the other still alive and well. And thus
the lady learned that the soul of one who advances in holiness and never turns back, may be
already a dweller in the Land of Enlightenment, even though the body still sojourn in this
transitory world" (pp. 55-56).

What a singular counterpart the striking conclusion here forms to Dante's tremendous assault
on a still living villain,--or enemy!

    --"che per sua opra
    In anima in Cocito già si bagna,
  Ed in corpo par vivo ancor di sopra."
      --Infern. xxxiii. 155.

Again: "I knew a man who during his life had killed many living beings, and was at last struck
with an apoplexy. The sorrows in store for his sin-laden soul pained me to the heart; I visited
him, and exhorted him to call on the Amita; but he obstinately refused, and spoke only of indifferent
matters. His illness clouded his understanding; in consequence of his misdeeds he had become
hardened. What was before such a man when once his eyes were closed? Wherefore let men be converted
while there is yet time! In this life the night followeth the day, and the winter followeth
the summer; that, all men are aware of. But that life is followed by death, no man will consider.
Oh, what blindness and obduracy is this!" (p. 93).

Again: "Hoang-ta-tie, of T'ancheu (Changshu-fu in Honan), who lived under the Sung, followed
the craft of a blacksmith. Whenever he was at his work he used to call without intermission
on the name of Amita Buddha. One day he handed to his neighbours the following verses of his
own composing to be spread about:--

  'Ding dong! The hammer-strokes fall long and fast,
  Until the Iron turns to steel at last!
  Now shall the long long Day of Rest begin,
  The Land of Bliss Eternal calls me in.'

Thereupon he died. But his verses spread all over Honan, and many learned to call upon Buddha"
(103).

Once more: "In my own town there lived a physician by name Chang-yan-ming. He was a man who
never took payment for his treatment from any one in poor or indifferent circumstances; nay,
he would often make presents to such persons of money or corn to lighten their lot. If a rich
man would have his advice and paid him a fee, he never looked to see whether it were much or
little. If a patient lay so dangerously ill that Yanming despaired of his recovery, he would
still give him good medicine to comfort his heart, but never took payment for it. I knew this
man for many a year, and I never heard the word Money pass his lips! One day a fire broke out
in the town, and laid the whole of the houses in ashes; only that of the physician was spared.
His sons and grandsons reached high dignities" (p. 110).

["By the 'Most High and Heavenly God,' worshipped by the Chinese, as Marco Polo reports, evidently
the Chinese T'ien, 'Heaven' is meant, Lao t'ien ye in the common language. Regarding 'the God
of things terrestrial,' whose figure the Chinese, according to M. Polo, 'placed below on the
ground,' there can also be no doubt that he understands the T'u-ti, the local 'Lar' of the
Chinese, to which they present sacrifices on the floor, near the wall under the table.

"M. Polo reports, that the Chinese worship their God offering incense, raising their hands
aloft, and gnashing their teeth. Of course he means that they placed the hands together, or
held kindled joss-stick bundles in their hands, according to the Chinese custom. The statement
of M. Polo sbattendo i denti is very remarkable. It seems to me, that very few of the Chinese
are aware of the fact, that this custom still exists among the Taouists. In the rituals of
the Taouists the K'ow-ch'i (Ko'w = 'to knock against,'ch'i = 'teeth') is prescribed as a comminatory
and propitiatory act. It is effected by the four upper and lower foreteeth. The Taouists are
obliged before the service begins to perform a certain number of 'K'ow-ch'i, turning their
heads alternately to the left and to the right, in order to drive away mundane thoughts and
aggressions of bad spirits. The K'ow-ch'i repeated three times is called ming fa ku in Chinese,
i.e. 'to beat the spiritual drum.' The ritual says, that it is heard by the Most High Ruler,
who is moved by it to grace.

"M. Polo observed this custom among the lay heathen. Indeed, it appears from a small treatise,
written in China more than a hundred years before M. Polo, that at the time the Chinese author
wrote, all devout men, entering a temple, used to perform the K'ow-ch'i, and considered it
an expression of veneration and devotion to the idols. Thus this custom had been preserved
to the time of M. Polo, who did not fail to mention this strange peculiarity in the exterior
observances of the Chinese. As regards the present time it seems to me, that this custom is
not known among the people, and even with respect to the Taouists it is only performed on certain
occasions, and not in all Taouist temples." (Palladius, pp. 53-54.)--H. C.]

NOTE 4.--"True politeness cannot of course be taught by rules merely, but a great degree of
urbanity and kindness is everywhere shown, whether owing to the naturally placable disposition
of the people, or to the effects of their early instruction in the forms of politeness." (Mid.
Kingdom, II. 68.) As regards the "ornate style of speech," a well-bred Chinaman never says
I or You, but for the former "the little person," "the disciple," "the inferior," and so on;
and for the latter, "the learned man," "the master," or even "the emperor." These phrases,
however, are not confined to China, most of them having exact parallels in Hindustani courtesy.
On this subject and the courteous disposition of the Chinese, see Fontaney, in Lett. Edif.
VII. 287 seqq.; also XI. 287 seqq.; Semedo, 36; Lecomte, II. 48 seqq. There are, however, strong
differences of opinion expressed on this subject; there is, apparently, much more genuine courtesy
in the north than in the south.

NOTE 5.--"Filial piety is the fundamental principle of the Chinese polity." (Amiot, V. 129.)
"In cases of extreme unfilial conduct, parents sometimes accuse their children before the magistrate,
and demand his official aid in controlling or punishing them; but such instances are comparatively
rare.... If the parent require his son to be publicly whipped by the command of the magistrate,
the latter is obliged to order the infliction of the whipping.... If after punishment the son
remain undutiful and disobedient, and his parents demand it at the hands of the magistrate,
the latter must, with the consent of the maternal uncles of the son, cause him to be taken
out to the high wall in front of the yamun, and have him there publicly whipped to death."
(Doolittle, 102-103.)

NOTE 6.--[Mr. Rockhill writes to me that pocket-spitoons are still used in China.--H. C.]

[1] "In the worship carried on here the Emperor acts as a high priest. HE
    only worships; and no subject, however high in rank, can join in the
    adoration." (Lockhart.) The actual temple dates from 1420-1430; but
    the Institution is very ancient, and I think there is evidence that
    such a structure existed under the Mongols, probably only restored
    by the Ming. [It was built during the 18th year of the reign of the
    third Ming Emperor Yung Loh (1403-1425); it was entirely restored
    during the 18th year of K'ien Lung; it was struck by lightning and
    burnt down in 1889; it is being re-built.--H. C.]

[2] In 1871 I saw in Bond Street an exhibition of (so-called) "spirit"
    drawings, i.e. drawings alleged to be executed by a "medium" under
    extraneous and invisible guidance. A number of these extraordinary
    productions (for extraordinary they were undoubtedly) professed to
    represent the "Spiritual Flowers" of such and such persons; and the
    explanation of this as presented in the catalogue was in substance
    exactly that given in the text. It is highly improbable that the
    artist had any cognizance of Schott's Essay, and the coincidence was
    assuredly very striking.

END OF VOL I.

]

[1] On the walls of this archway is engraved the inscription in six
    characters, of which a representation accompanies ch. xv. of Prologue,
    note 1.

