Such being the circumstances of the pastors of the church, let the community in general be
supposed to have been for some time in a rapidly improving state of commercial prosperity;
let it also be supposed to have been making no unequal progress in all those arts, and sciences,
and literary productions, which have ever been the growth of a polished age, and are the sure
marks of a highly finished condition of society. It is not difficult to anticipate the effects
likely to be produced on vital Religion, both in the clergy and the laity, by such a state
of external prosperity as has been assigned to them respectively. And these effects would be
infallibly furthered, where the country in question should enjoy a free constitution of government.
We formerly had occasion to quote the remark of an accurate observer of the stage of human
life, that a much looser system of morals commonly prevails in the higher, than in the middling
and lower orders of society. Now, in every country, of which the middling classes are daily
growing in wealth and consequence, by the success of their commercial speculations; and, most
of all, in a country having such a constitution as our own, where the acquisition of riches
is the possession also of rank and power; with the comforts and refinements, the vices also
of the higher orders are continually descending, and a mischievous uniformity of sentiments,
and manners, and morals, gradually diffuses itself throughout the whole community. The multiplication
of great cities also, and above all, the habit, ever increasing with the increasing wealth
of the country, of frequenting a splendid and luxurious metropolis, would powerfully tend to
accelerate the discontinuance of the religious habits of a purer age, and to accomplish the
substitution of a more relaxed morality. And it must even be confessed, that the commercial
spirit, much as we are indebted to it, is not naturally favourable to the maintenance of the
religious principle in a vigorous and lively state.

In times like these, therefore, the strict precepts and self-denying habits of Christianity
naturally slide into disuse; and even among the better sort of Christians, are likely to be
softened, so far at least as to be rendered less abhorrent from the general disposition to
relaxation and indulgence. In such prosperous circumstances, men, in truth, are apt to think
very little about religion. Christianity, therefore, seldom occupying the attention of the
bulk of nominal Christians, and being scarcely at all the object of their study, we should
expect, of course, to find them extremely unacquainted with its tenets. Those doctrines and
principles indeed, which it contains in common with the law of the land, or which are sanctioned
by the general standard of morals formerly described, being brought into continual notice and
mention by the common occurrences of life, might continue to be recognized. But whatever she
contains peculiar to herself, and which should not be habitually brought into recollection
by the incidents of every day, might be expected to be less and less thought of, till at length
it should be almost wholly forgotten. Still more might this be naturally expected to become
the case, if the peculiarities in question should be, from their very nature, at war with pride,
and luxury, and worldly mindedness, the too general concomitants of rapidly increasing wealth:
and this would particularly happen among the laity; if the circumstance of their having been
at any time abused to purposes of hypocrisy or fanaticism, should have prompted even some of
the better disposed of the clergy, perhaps from well intentioned though erroneous motives,
to bring them forward less frequently in their discourses on Religion.

When so many should thus have been straying out of the right path, some bold reformer might,
from time to time, be likely to arise, who should not unjustly charge them with their deviation:
but, though right perhaps in the main; yet deviating himself also in an opposite direction,
and creating disgust by his violence, or vulgarity, or absurdities, he might fail, except in
a few instances, to produce the effect of recalling them from their wanderings.

Still, however, the Divine Original of Christianity would not be professedly disavowed; partly
from a real, and more commonly from a political, deference for the established faith, but most
of all, from the bulk of mankind being not yet prepared, as it were, to throw away the scabbard,
and to venture their eternal happiness on the issue of its falsehood. Some bolder spirits,
indeed, might be expected to despise the cautious moderation of these timid reasoners, and
to pronounce decisively, that the Bible was a forgery: while the generality, professing to
believe it genuine, should, less consistently, be satisfied with remaining ignorant of its
contents; and when pressed, should discover themselves by no means to believe many of the most
important particulars contained in it.

When, by the operation of causes like these, any country has at length grown into the condition
which has been here stated; it is but too obvious, that, in the bulk of the community, Religion,
already sunk very low, must be hastening fast to her entire dissolution. Causes, energetic
and active like these, though accidental hindrances may occasionally thwart their operation,
will not at once become sluggish and unproductive. Their effect is sure; and the time is fast
approaching, when Christianity will be almost as openly disavowed in the language, as in fact
it is already supposed to have disappeared from the conduct of men; when infidelity will be
held to be the necessary appendage of a man of fashion, and to believe will be deemed the indication
of a feeble mind and a contracted understanding.

Something like what have been here premised are the conjectures which we should naturally be
led to form, concerning the state of Christianity in this country, and its probable issue,
from considering her own nature, and the peculiar circumstances in which she has been placed.
That her real condition differs not much from the result of this reasoning from probability,
must, with whatever regret, be confessed by all who take a careful and impartial survey of
the actual situation of things among us. But our hypothetical delineation, if just, will have
approved itself to the reader's conviction, as we have gone along, by suggesting its archetypes;
and we may therefore be spared the painful and invidious task of pointing out, in detail, the
several particulars wherein our statements are justified by facts. Every where we may actually
trace the effects of increasing wealth and luxury, in banishing one by one the habits, and
new-modelling the phraseology, of stricter times; and in diffusing throughout the middle ranks
those relaxed morals and dissipated manners, which were formerly confined to the higher classes
of society. We meet, indeed, with more refinement, and more generally with those amiable courtesies
which are its proper fruits: those vices also have become less frequent, which naturally infest
the darkness of a ruder and less polished age, and which recede on the approach of light and
civilization:

    Defluxit numerus Saturnius, & grave virus
    Munditiæ pepulere:

But with these grossnesses, Religion, on the other hand, has also declined; God is forgotten;
his providence is exploded; his hand is lifted up, but we see it not; he multiplies our comforts,
but we are not grateful; he visits us with chastisements, but we are not contrite. The portion
of the week set apart to the service of Religion we give up, without reluctance, to vanity
and dissipation. And it is much if, on the periodical return of a day of national humiliation,
having availed ourselves of the certainty of an interval from public business to secure a meeting
for convivial purposes; we do not insult the Majesty of Heaven by feasting and jollity, and
thus deliberately disclaim our being included in the solemn services of this season of penitence
and recollection[109].

But when there is not this open and shameless disavowal of Religion, few traces of it are to
be found. Improving in almost every other branch of knowledge, we have become less and less
acquainted with Christianity. The preceding chapters have pointed out, among those who believe
themselves to be orthodox Christians, a deplorable ignorance of the Religion they profess,
an utter forgetfulness of the peculiar doctrines by which it is characterized, a disposition
to regard it as a mere system of ethics, and, what might seem an inconsistency, at the same
time a most inadequate idea of the nature and strictness of its practical principles. This
declension of Christianity into a mere system of ethics, may partly be accounted for, as has
been lately suggested; by considering the corruption of our nature, what Christianity is, and
in what circumstances she has been placed in this country. But it has also been considerably
promoted by one peculiar cause, on which, for many reasons, it may not be improper to dwell
a little more particularly.

Christianity in its best days (for the credit of our representations let this be remembered,
by those who object to our statement as austere and contracted) was such as it has been delineated
in the present work. This was the Religion of the most eminent Reformers, of those bright ornaments
of our country who suffered martyrdom under queen Mary; of their successors in the times of
Elizabeth; in short of all the pillars of our Protestant church; of many of its highest dignitaries;
of Davenant, of Hall, of Reynolds, of Beveridge, of Hooker, of Andrews, of Smith, of Leighton,
of Usher, of Hopkins, of Baxter[110], and of many others of scarcely inferior note. In their
pages the peculiar doctrines of Christianity were every where visible, and on the deep and
solid basis of these doctrinal truths were laid the foundations of a superstructure of morals
proportionably broad and exalted. Of this fact their writings still extant are a decisive proof:
and they who may want leisure, or opportunity, or inclination, for the perusal of these valuable
records, may satisfy themselves of the truth of the assertion, that, such as we have stated
it, was the Christianity of those times, by consulting our Articles and Homilies, or even by
carefully examining our excellent Liturgy. But from that tendency to deterioration lately noticed,
these great fundamental truths began to be somewhat less prominent in the compositions of many
of the leading divines before the time of the civil wars. During that period, however, the
peculiar doctrines of Christianity were grievously abused by many of the sectaries, who were
foremost in the commotions of those unhappy days; who, while they talked copiously of the free
grace of Christ, and the operations of the Holy Spirit, were by their lives an open scandal
to the name of Christian[111].

Towards the close of the last century, the divines of the established Church (whether it arose
from the obscurity of their own views, or from a strong impression of former abuses, and of
the evils which had resulted from them) began to run into a different error. They professed
to make it their chief object to inculcate the moral and practical precepts of Christianity,
which they conceived to have been before too much neglected; but without sufficiently maintaining,
often even without justly laying the grand foundation, of a sinner's acceptance with God; or
pointing out how the practical precepts of Christianity grow out of her peculiar doctrines,
and are inseparably connected with them[112]. By this fatal error, the very genius and essential
nature of Christianity imperceptibly underwent a change. She no longer retained her peculiar
characters, or produced that appropriate frame of spirit by which her followers had been characterized.
Facilis descensus. The example thus set was followed during the present century, and its effect
was aided by various causes already pointed out. In addition to these, it may be proper to
mention as a cause of powerful operation; that for the last fifty years the press has teemed
with moral essays, many of them published periodically, and most extensively circulated; which,
being considered either as works of mere entertainment, or, in which at least entertainment
was to be blended with instruction, rather than as religious pieces, were kept free from whatever
might give them the air of sermons, or cause them to wear an appearance of seriousness, inconsistent
with the idea of relaxation. But in this way the fatal habit, of considering Christian morals
as distinct from Christian doctrines, insensibly gained strength. Thus the peculiar doctrines
of Christianity went more and more out of sight; and, as might naturally have been expected,
the moral system itself also began to wither and decay, being robbed of that which should have
supplied it with life and nutriment. At length, in our own days, these peculiar doctrines have
almost altogether vanished from the view. Even in many sermons, as we have formerly noticed,
scarcely any traces of them are to be found.

But the degree of neglect into which they are really fallen, may perhaps be rendered still
more manifest by appealing to another criterion. There is a certain class of publications,
of which it is the object to give us exact delineations of life and manners: and when these
are written by authors of accurate observation and deep knowledge of human nature; (and many
such there have been in our times) they furnish a more faithful picture, than can be obtained
in any other way, of the prevalent opinions and feelings of mankind. It must be obvious that
novels are here alluded to. A careful perusal of the most celebrated of these pieces would
furnish a strong confirmation of the apprehension, suggested from other considerations, concerning
the very low state of Religion in this country; but they would still more strikingly illustrate
the truth of the remark, that the grand peculiarities of Christianity are almost vanished from
the view. In a sermon, although throughout the whole of it there may have been no traces of
these peculiarities, either directly or indirectly, the preacher closes with an ordinary form;
which, if one were to assert that they were absolutely omitted, would immediately be alledged
in contradiction of the assertion, and may just serve to protect them from falling into entire
oblivion. But in novels, the writer is not so tied down. In these, people of Religion, and
clergymen too, are placed in all possible situations, and the sentiments and language deemed
suitable to the occasion are assigned to them. They are introduced instructing, reproving,
counselling, comforting. It is often the author's intention to represent them in a favourable
point of view, and accordingly he makes them as well informed and as good Christians as he
knows how. They are painted amiable, benevolent, and forgiving; but it is not too much to say,
that if all the peculiarities of Christianity had never existed, or had been proved to be false,
the circumstance would scarcely create the necessity of altering a single syllable in any of
the most celebrated of these performances. It is striking to observe the difference which there
is in this respect in similar works of Mahometan authors, wherein the characters, which they
mean to represent in a favourable light, are drawn vastly more observant of the peculiarities
of their religion[113].

But to make an end of this discussion, concerning the degree in which the peculiarities of
Christianity have fallen into neglect, and concerning one of the principal of the causes which
have produced it: if this be the state of things even in the case of sermons, and of the compositions
of those, whose sphere of information must be supposed larger than that of the bulk of mankind;
it must excite less wonder, that in the world in general, though Christianity be not formally
denied, people know little about it; and that in fact you find, when you come to converse with
them, that, admitting in terms the Divine Revelation of Scripture, they are far from believing
the propositions which it contains.

It has also been a melancholy prognostic of the state to which we are progressive, that many
of the most eminent of the literati of modern times have been professed unbelievers: and that
others of them have discovered such lukewarmness in the cause of Christ, as to treat with especial
good will, and attention, and respect, those men, who, by their avowed publications, were openly
assailing, or insidiously undermining the very foundations of the Christian hope; considering
themselves as more closely united to them, by literature, than severed from them by the widest
religious differences[114].

Can there then be a doubt, whither tends the path in which we are travelling, and whither at
length it must conduct us? If any should hesitate, let them take a lesson from experience.
In a neighbouring country, several of the same causes have been in action; and they have at
length produced their full effect. Manners corrupted, morals depraved, dissipation predominant,
above all, Religion discredited, and infidelity grown into repute and fashion[117], terminated
in the public disavowal of every religious principle, which had been used to attract the veneration
of mankind. The representatives of a whole nation publicly witnessing, not only without horror,
but, to say the least, without disapprobation, an open unqualified denial of the very existence
of God; and at length, as a body, withdrawing their allegiance from the Majesty of Heaven.

There are not a few, perhaps, who may have witnessed with apprehension, and may be ready to
confess with pain, the gradual declension of Religion; but who at the same time may conceive
that the writer of this tract is disposed to carry things too far. They may even allege, that
the degree of Religion for which he contends is inconsistent with the ordinary business of
life, and with the well-being of society; that if it were generally to prevail, people would
be wholly engrossed by Religion, and all their time occupied by prayer and preaching. Men not
being sufficiently interested in the pursuit of temporal objects, agriculture and commerce
would decline, the arts would languish, the very duties of common life would be neglected;
and, in short, the whole machine of civil society would be obstructed, and speedily stopped.
An opening for this charge is given by an ingenious writer[118] alluded to in an early period
of our work; and is even somewhat countenanced by an author since referred to, from whom such
a sentiment justly excites more surprise[119].

In reply to this objection it might be urged, that though we should allow it for a moment to
be in a considerable degree well founded, yet this admission would not warrant the conclusion
intended to be drawn from it. The question would still remain, whether our representation of
what Christianity requires be agreeable to the word of God? For if it be, surely it must be
confessed to be a matter of small account to sacrifice a little worldly comfort and prosperity,
during the short span of our existence in this life, in order to secure a crown of eternal
glory, and the enjoyment of those pleasures which are at God's right hand for evermore! It
might be added also, that our blessed Saviour had fairly declared, that it would often be required
of Christians to make such a sacrifice; and had forewarned us, that, in order to be able to
do it with cheerfulness whenever the occasion should arrive, we must habitually sit loose to
all worldly possessions and enjoyments. And it might farther be remarked, that though it were
even admitted, that the general prevalence of vital Christianity should somewhat interfere
with the views of national wealth and aggrandisement; yet that there is too much reason to
believe that, do all we can, this general prevalence needs not to be apprehended, or, to speak
more justly, could not be hoped for. But indeed the objection on which we have now been commenting,
is not only groundless, but the very contrary to it is the truth. If Christianity, such as
we have represented it, were generally to prevail; the world, from being such as it is, would
become a scene of general peace and prosperity; and abating the chances and calamities "which
flesh is inseparably heir to," would wear one unwearied face of complacency and joy.

On the first promulgation of Christianity, it is true, some of her early converts seem to have
been in danger of so far mistaking the genius of the new Religion, as to imagine that in future
they were to be discharged from an active attendance on their secular affairs. But the Apostle
most pointedly guarded them against so gross an error, and expressly and repeatedly enjoined
them to perform the particular duties of their several stations with increased alacrity and
fidelity, that they might thereby do credit to their Christian profession. This he did, at
the same time that he prescribed to them that predominant love of God and of Christ, that heavenly-mindedness,
that comparative indifference to the things of this world, that earnest endeavour after growth
in grace and perfection in holiness, which have already been stated as the essential characteristics
of real Christianity. It cannot therefore be supposed by any who allow to the Apostle even
the claim of a consistent instructor, much less by any who admit his Divine authority, that
these latter precepts are incompatible with the former. Let it be remembered, that the grand
characteristic mark of the true Christian, which has been insisted on, is his desiring to please
God in all his thoughts, and words, and actions; to take the revealed word to be the rule of
his belief and practice; to "let his light shine before men;" and in all things to adorn the
doctrine which he professes. No calling is proscribed, no pursuit is forbidden, no science
or art, no pleasure is disallowed, which is reconcilable with this principle. It must indeed
be confessed that Christianity would not favour that vehement and inordinate ardour in the
pursuit of temporal objects, which tends to the acquisition of immense wealth, or of widely
spread renown: nor is it calculated to gratify the extravagant views of those mistaken politicians,
the chief object of whose admiration, and the main scope of whose endeavours for their country,
are, extended dominion, and commanding power, and unrivalled affluence, rather than those more
solid advantages of peace, and comfort, and security. These men would barter comfort for greatness.
In their vain reveries they forget that a nation consists of individuals, and that true national
prosperity is no other than the multiplication of particular happiness.

