THE CROSS-TOWN TUNNELS.[A]

BY JAMES H. BRACE AND FRANCIS MASON, MEMBERS, AM. SOC. C. E.

In this paper, it is proposed to describe the construction of the tunnels extending eastward
from the easterly extension of the Terminal Station to the permanent shafts east of First Avenue.

They were located under 32d and 33d Streets from the station to Second Avenue, and thence,
curving to the left, passed under private property and First Avenue to the shafts, as described
in a preceding paper. Typical cross-sections of the tunnels are shown on Plate XII.[B]

On May 29th, 1905, a contract was entered into with the United Engineering and Contracting
Company for the performance of this work. This contract provided that work on each pair of
tunnels should be carried on from two shafts. The first, here referred to as the First Avenue
Shafts, were located just east of that avenue and directly over the line of the tunnels; the
other two, called the Intermediate Shafts, were located on private property to the north of
each pair of tunnels in the blocks between Fourth and Madison Avenues. It was originally intended
to do all the work of construction from these four shafts. Workings were started both east
and west from the Intermediate Shafts, and those to the west were to be continued to the Terminal
Station. After the change of plans, described in a previous paper, it was decided to sink a
third shaft on each line. These were known as the West Shafts, and were located between Sixth
and Seventh Avenues. Finally, it was found necessary to build a portion of the tunnels on each
line west of Sixth Avenue in open cut. The locations of the shafts are shown on Plate XIV.[C]

The First Avenue shafts were built by S. Pearson and Son, Inc., for the joint use of the two
contractors, as described in the paper on the tunnels under the East River. While the shafts
were being sunk, the full-sized tunnels were excavated westward by the contractor for the river
tunnels for a distance of 50 ft., and top headings for 50 ft. farther. By this means, injury
to the caissons and to the contractor's plant in the shafts by the subsequent work in the Cross-Town
Tunnels was avoided. The west half of the shaft was for the exclusive use of the contractor
for the Cross-Town Tunnels.

CONTRACTOR'S PLANT.

The method of handling the work adopted by the contractor was, broadly speaking, as follows:
Excavation was usually carried on by modifications of the top-heading and bench method, the
bench being carried as close to the face as possible in order to allow the muck from the heading
to be blasted over the bench into the full section. The spoil was loaded into 3-yd. buckets
(designed by the contractor and hereinafter described), by steam shovels operated by compressed
air, and hauled to the shafts by electric locomotives. Electrically-operated telphers, suspended
from a timber trestle, hoisted the buckets, and, traveling on a mono-rail track, deposited
them on wagons for transportation to the dock. Arriving at the dock, the buckets were lifted
by electrically-operated stiff-leg derricks and their contents deposited on scows for final
disposal. The spoil was thus transported from the heading to the scow without breaking bulk.

When concreting was in progress, the spoil buckets were returned to the shafts loaded with
sand and stone. The concrete materials were deposited in storage bins placed in the shafts,
from which they were fed to the mixers located at the foot of the shaft about on a level with
the crown of the tunnels. The concrete was transported to the forms in side-dump, steel, concrete
cars, hauled by the electric locomotives.

Electrical power was adopted largely on account of the restricted area at the shaft sites,
where a steam plant would have occupied considerable space of great value for other purposes.
The installation of a steam plant at the Intermediate Shafts, which were located in a high-class
residential district, would have been highly objectionable to the neighboring property owners,
on account of the attendant noise, smoke, and dirt, and, in addition, the cost of the transportation
of fuel would have been a serious burden. Except for the forges and, toward the last, the steam
locomotives, not a pound of coal was burned on the work. The use of the bucket and telpher
also eliminated most of the objectionable noise incident to the transfer of spoil from tunnel
cars to ordinary wagons at the shaft sites. Power plants were installed at the North Shaft
near First Avenue and at the rear of the 33d Street Intermediate Shaft.

First Avenue Plant.--Fig. 1, Plate LVIII, is a general view of the First Avenue plant. The
power-house at the corner of 34th Street and First Avenue supplied compressed air for operating
drills, shovels, pumps, and hoists in the tunnels driven from the river shafts, and in it three
Laidlaw-Dunn-Gordon compressors were installed. The largest was a 32 by 20 by 30-in., two-stage,
cross-compound, direct-connected to a Fort Wayne 480 h.p., 230-volt, direct-current, constant-speed
motor run at 100 rev. per min. This compressor was rated at 2,870 cu. ft. of free air per minute
at a pressure of 100 lb. It was governed by throttling the suction, the governor being controlled
by the pressure in the air receiver and the motor running continuously at a constant speed.
The two others were of similar type, one was 22-1/2 by 14 by 18-in., rated at 1,250 cu. ft.
of free air at a pressure of 100 lb., the other was 16 by 10 by 18-in., rated at 630 cu. ft.
They were fitted with 9-ft. fly-wheels, and were driven at 150 rev. per min. by 105-h.p., General
Electric, 220-volt, compound-wound, direct-current motors running at 655 rev. per min. The
larger of these two compressors was driven by two of the motors belted in tandem, and the smaller
was belt-connected to a third motor. The compressors were water-jacketed and had small inter-coolers,
the water supply for which was itself cooled in a Wheeler Condenser and Engineering Company's
water-cooling tower. The pump and the blower operating it were electrically driven.

The telphers, used for hoisting muck from the tunnels and for lowering supplies, were each
hung from single rails on a timber trestle, about 40 ft. high, spanning and connecting the
two shafts. One machine was provided for each shaft, and where their tracks crossed 33d Street
they were separated sufficiently to permit the machines to pass each other. At this point,
and covering the street, a large platform was provided, on which the trucks were loaded and
unloaded (Fig. 2, Plate LVIII), and from which they descended by an incline on First Avenue
leading south to 32d Street. The platform also covered practically all the yard at the South
Shaft and materially increased the available working area. The telphers were built by the Dodge
Cold Storage Company, and were operated by a 75-h.p. General Electric motor for hoisting and
a 15-h.p. Northern Electric Company motor for propulsion. Their rated lifting capacity was
10,000 lb. at a speed of 200 ft. per min.

The carpenter shop and machine-shop, both of which served the entire work, were conveniently
located in small buildings on the loading platform. In the former the saws were each run independently
by small electric motors suspended under the platform. The heavy forms and form carriages used
in lining the tunnels with concrete were fabricated and stored on the platform outside. The
machine-shop lathes, etc., were all belted to one shaft driven by an 8-h.p. General Electric
motor. Above the machine-shop was a locker-room and below it on the street level was the main
blacksmith shop for the work. Subsidiary blacksmith shops were located at each of the other
shafts. The storeroom and additional locker-rooms were located above the power-plant in the
North Shaft yard, and isolated from the other structures was a small oil-house. Additional
storage space was provided by the contractor on 32d Street just west of First Avenue by renting
three old buildings and the yards in the rear of them and of the Railroad Company's cement
warehouse adjacent. Here electric conduits, pipe, castings, and other heavy and bulky supplies
were stored.

During excavation the headings were supplied with forced ventilation through 12-in. and 14-in.
No. 16, spiral-riveted, asphalted pressure pipes, canvas extensions being used beyond the ends
of the pipes. A No. 4 American Blower, located at the top of each shaft and driven by a 15-h.p.
General Electric motor, supplied the air.

A concrete-mixing plant was placed in each shaft, the mixer being located high enough to discharge
into cars at about the level of the springing line of the arch. Above the mixers were the measuring
hoppers set in the floor of a platform which was large enough to carry half a day's supply
of cement. At the South Shaft the cement was delivered to this floor from the loading platform
through a spiral steel chute; at the North Shaft it was lowered in buckets by the telpher.
The sand and stone were drawn into the hoppers through short chutes from the base of the storage
bins which occupied the remaining height of the shaft--about 50 ft. At the South Shaft the
bins were of concrete and steel, about 6 by 12 ft. in section, and attached to the central
wall of the caisson. Sand and stone were delivered into them from dump-wagons on the loading
platform. At the North Shaft steel-plate bins were used, and were supplied with material by
the buckets handled by the telpher. The mixers were No. 5 Smith, belt-connected to 25-h.p.
motors, and about 0.8 cu. yd. of concrete was mixed at a batch. The concrete cars were steel
side-dumpers of the Wiener or Koppel type.

In order to be able to continue concreting during the winter, when neither sand nor stone could
be obtained by water, practically all the space under the loading platforms in the South Shaft
yards not occupied by the blacksmith shop was filled with these materials, which were placed
in storage in the late fall.

Intermediate-Shaft Plant.--The air-compressing plant was located at the rear of the 33d Street
Intermediate Shaft, and supplied air for driving the tunnels east and west from the Intermediate
Shafts on both 32d and 33d Streets. Two compressors, the same as the large Laidlaw-Dunn-Gordon
machine at First Avenue, were installed here, with a similar water-cooling tower.

Both shafts were on private property, owned by the Railroad Company, on the north side of the
streets, and each was equipped with two telphers supported on timber trestles, similar to those
at First Avenue. Here, however, the buckets were placed on wagons standing at the curb, as
shown by Fig. 3, Plate LVIII.

Blowers for ventilation were installed at each shaft, as at First Avenue, and, after the excavation
had proceeded some distance, small blacksmith shops, for sharpening drill steel and making
minor repairs, were located in the tunnels near the shafts.

The concrete plant in each shaft was similar in arrangement to those at First Avenue, but the
storage bins had wooden walls made of 2 by 4-in. and 2 by 6-in. scantling nailed flat on each
other.

The contractor's office on 33d Street backed up against the 32d Street shaft site, and the
basement was used as a storeroom for supplies for both shafts.

After the decision to do part of the work between Sixth and Seventh Avenues in open cut, an
8-in. air main was laid in 33d Street to the West Shafts, and air was supplied from the Intermediate
Shaft for work on both streets in that neighborhood.

West-Shaft Plant.--West of Sixth Avenue, between 32d and 33d Streets and adjacent to the open-cut
sections, the Railroad Company obtained from the Hudson and Manhattan Railroad Company the
use of a large area from which the buildings had recently been removed, and gave the use of
it to the contractor. This was of great value in prosecuting the west end of the work. The
two West Shafts were located in the streets and were supplied with short timber trestles similar
to those at the Intermediate Shafts. One telpher was taken from each of the Intermediate Shafts
to operate at each of the West Shafts. In addition, a number of stiff-leg derricks were set
up along the open-cut section, and were operated by Lidgerwood or Lambert air hoisting engines,
or by electric motors, as circumstances dictated. A 15-ton Bay City locomotive crane was also
used along part of the open-cut work on 32d Street.

Several concrete plants were installed at points along the open-cut section, and were moved
from place to place, the same general arrangement being adopted as at the plants already described.
No. 3 and No. 4 Ransome mixers were used, and were generally set up at about the level of the
top of the arch. The sand and stone storage bins were made of scantlings spiked together, and
were necessarily rather shallow on account of the proximity of the tunnels to the street surface.

Thirty-fifth Street Pier.--For the receipt and disposal of materials at the 35th Street pier,
four stiff-leg derricks, operated by electric hoisting engines, were installed. Two were used
in lifting the muck buckets from the wagons and dumping their contents on the scows for final
disposal (Fig. 4, Plate LVIII); and the other two were fitted with clam-shell buckets for unloading
sand and broken stone from barges and depositing the materials in large hoppers, from which
they were drawn into wagons for transportation to the various concrete plants. A large part
of the cement (all of which was supplied by the Railroad Company) was also unloaded at the
35th Street pier and hauled directly to the work, the surplus being stored temporarily in the
Company's cement warehouses on 32d, 33d and 35th Streets, near First Avenue, from which it
was drawn as required. On the dock was located the main powder magazine, a small concrete structure.
Considerable use was also made of neighboring piers for unloading electric conduits, lumber,
steel, etc.

Tunnel Plant.--The spoil buckets, designed by D. L. Hough and George Perrine, Members, Am.
Soc. C. E., were a novel feature of the work. These buckets are shown in detail in Fig. 1 and
various photographs. They were of 3 cu. yd. capacity and were split longitudinally, the two
halves being pinned at the apices of the ends. For lifting, they were suspended from eyes at
that point, and, when dumping, trip ropes were hooked into eyes at the bottom of each side;
lifting the trip ropes or lowering the hoisting rope split the bucket, as shown in Fig. 4,
Plate LVIII, and dumped the contents. They were transported in the tunnel on flat cars, and
in the street on wagons, both cars and wagons being provided with cradles shaped to receive
the bottom of the bucket.

In the tunnels the loading was done with air-operated steam shovels, four (Model 20) Marion
shovels being used at various points of the work. In Fig. 1, Plate LIX, one of these is shown
loading the bucket. The cars were hauled by General Electric, standard, 10-ton, mine locomotives,
the current for which was taken at 220 volts from a pair of No. 00 copper trolley wires suspended
from the roof of the tunnel. The collector was a small four-wheeled buggy riding on the wires
and connected to the locomotive by several hundred feet of cable wound on a reel for use beyond
the end of the trolley wire. Two 8-1/2-ton, Davenport, steam locomotives were also used in
32d Street, toward the end of the work, after the headings had been holed through and the tunnels
would quickly clear themselves of gas and smoke. The steam shovels were supplemented by two
Browning, 15-ton, locomotive cranes, which handled the spoil in places where timbering interfered
with the operation of the shovels. All tracks were of 3-ft. gauge throughout and laid with
40-lb. rails.

Practically all the heavy drilling was done with Ingersoll drills (Model E 52), the trimming
being largely done with jap and baby drills. A large number of pumps were used at various points
on the work, and practically all were of Cameron make, the largest ones at the shaft being
10 by 5 by 13-in. The grout machines were of the vertical-cylinder, air-stirring type.

SHAFT SINKING.

The sinking of the Intermediate Shafts was the first work undertaken by the contractor.

The 33d Street Shaft was 34.5 ft. long, 21 ft. wide, and 83 ft. deep. The rock surface averaged
5 ft. below the ground surface. Sinking was started on July 10th, 1905, and was completed on
October 3d, 1905, the rock being hard and dry. The average daily rate was 0.73 ft. and an average
of 17.1 cu. yd. were excavated per day, with two shifts of 8 hr. each. The first shift started
at 6 A. M. and the second at 2.30 P. M., ending at 11 P. M. These hours were adopted in order
to avoid undue disturbance during the night.

Before blasting the first lift of rock, channel cuts 5 or 6 ft. deep were made along the sides
of the shaft, in order to avoid damage to the walls of neighboring buildings. Timbering was
required for a depth of only 10 ft. below the surface of the ground.

A drift, 30.6 ft. long, 17 ft. wide, and 27 ft. high, connected the south end of the shaft
with the tunnels. The drift was excavated in three stages, a top heading and a bench in two
lifts. While blasting the cut in the top heading, there was enough concussion to break glass
in the neighboring buildings. The use of a radialax machine reduced the concussion somewhat,
but it was very quickly abandoned on account of the length of time required for the drilling.

The construction of the 32d Street Shaft was quite similar to the one on 33d Street. It was
31.5 ft. long, 20.5 ft. wide, and 71 ft. deep. The depth of earth excavation averaged 19.5
ft. The rock in this shaft was seamy and not quite as hard or dry as that in 33d Street, and
timbering was required for practically the full depth to the crown of the drift. Sinking was
started on May 15th, 1905, and was completed on October 26th, 1905. The daily average rate
was 0.30 ft. in earth and 0.52 ft. in rock. The drift was excavated in much the same manner
as the one in 33d Street, but the rock being softer the radialax machine was not used.

TUNNEL EXCAVATION.

During the early part of the work, the contractor devoted his entire attention to the work
of excavation. Nearly all the excavation east of Fifth Avenue was done before any of the lining
was placed. At a number of points west of Fifth Avenue and at a few points to the east the
nature of the rock was such that the two operations had to be done simultaneously.

Single-Tunnel Method.--For an average distance of 350 ft. west from the First Avenue Shafts
there were four single tunnels. The rock was sound and comparatively dry. A top heading of
the full size of the tunnel and about 8 ft. high was first driven. It was drilled by four drills
mounted on two columns, and was blasted in the ordinary way. The bench was about 13 ft. high.
Tripod drills, standing on the bench, drilled the usual holes, but, owing to the lack of head-room,
steels long enough to reach the bottom of the bench could not be used. Tripod drills were set
as low as possible at the foot of the bench and drilled lifting holes. These holes were inclined
downward from 10° to 15° to the horizontal, and were spaced to converge at the location of
the drainage ditches. The heading was usually driven from 10 to 20 ft. in advance of the bench.
At this distance a large part of the muck from the heading was shot backward over the bench.
In the single tunnels the muck was loaded by hand.

Twin-Tunnel Methods.--From the end of the single-track tunnel westward to Fifth Avenue on 33d
Street, and to Madison Avenue on 32d Street, with some exceptions, each pair of tunnels was
excavated for the entire width at one operation. Three different methods of work were extensively
used. They were the double-heading method, the center-heading method, and the full-sized-heading
method, and these differed only in the manner of drilling and blasting. The bench was usually
within 10 or 15 ft. of the face of the heading, and was drilled and fired in the same way as
in the single tunnels. After the installation of the permanent plant, most of the muck was
handled by steam shovels.

In the double-heading method, shown on Plate LVII, the top headings for each tunnel of the
pair were driven separately, leaving a short rock core-wall between them. The headings were
drilled from columns in the manner described for the single tunnels. The temporary rock dividing
wall between the headings was drilled by a tripod drill on the bench of one of the headings,
and was fired with the bench.

In the center-heading method, also shown on Plate LVII, only one heading was driven. It was
rectangular in shape, about 8 ft. high and 14 ft. wide. It was located on the center line between
the tunnels. In general, the face was from 6 to 12 ft., or the length of one or two rounds,
in advance of the remainder of the face at the top. The center heading was drilled by four
drills mounted on two columns. By turning these drills to the side, they were used for holes
at right angles to the line of the tunnels, by which the remainder of the face of the heading
was blasted. By turning the drills downward, the bench holes under the center heading were
also drilled. The center heading explored the rock in advance of the full-width heading, and
gave a good idea as to the care needed in firing.

For the full-width-heading method, Fig. 2, ten drills were mounted on five columns set abreast
across the face. Holes were drilled to form a cut near the center line between the tunnels.
The remainder of the holes were located so that they would draw into the cut. The bench was
frequently drilled from the same set-up of columns by turning the drills downward. In sound
rock this method proved to be the most rapid of any.

Practically all trimming was left until immediately before the concreting. It was then taken
up as a separate operation, but proved to be costly and tedious, and a hindrance to the placing
of the lining.

Materials Encountered.--All the rock encountered was the familiar Hudson schist, but it varied
widely in its mineral constituents and in its physical characteristics. In many places where
the rock surface was penetrated, a fine sand was found that was probably quicksand. The material
above the rock in the open-cut sections was mostly sand.

The concurrence of the watercourse, shown on General Viele's map of Manhattan Island (Plate
IX[D]), with the points where difficulties in the construction of the tunnels were encountered
has been noted in a previous paper.

