The inhabitants of Mecca were at last so fond of this liquor, that, without regarding the intention
of the religious, and other studious persons, they at length drank it publicly in coffee-houses,
where they assembled in crowds to pass the time agreeably, making that the pretense. From hence
the custom extended itself to many other towns of Arabia, particularly to Medina, and then
to Grand Cairo in Egypt, where the Dervises of Yemen, who lived in a district by themselves,
drank coffee on the nights they intended to spend in devotion.

Coffee continued its progress through Syria, and was received at Damascus and Aleppo without
opposition; and in the year 1554, under the reign of Solyman, one hundred years after its introduction
by the Mufti of Aden, became known to the inhabitants of Constantinople, when two private persons
of the names of Schems and Hekin, the one coming from Damascus, and the other from Aleppo,
opened coffee-houses.

"It is not easy," says Ellis, "to determine at what time, or upon what occasion, the use of
coffee passed from Constantinople to the western parts of Europe. It is, however, likely that
the Venetians, upon account of the proximity of their dominions, and their great trade to the
Levant, were the first acquainted with it; which appears from part of a letter wrote by Peter
della Valle, a Venetian, in 1615, from Constantinople; in which he tells his friend, that,
upon his return he should {26} bring with him some coffee, which he believed was a thing unknown
in his country."

Mr. Garland tells us he was informed by M. de la Croix, the King's interpreter, that M. Thevenot,
who had travelled through the East, at his return in 1657, brought with him to Paris some coffee
for his own use, and often treated his friends with it.

It was known some years sooner at Marseilles; for, in 1644, some gentlemen who accompanied
M. de la Haye to Constantinople, brought back with them on their return, not only some coffee,
but the proper vessels and apparatus for making it. However, until 1660, coffee was drunk only
by such as had been accustomed to it in the Levant, and their friends; but that year some bales
were imported from Egypt, which gave a great number of persons an opportunity of trying it,
and contributed very much to bringing it into general use; and in 1661, a coffee-house was
opened at Marseilles in the neighbourhood of the Exchange.

Before 1669, coffee had not been seen at Paris, except at M. Thevenot's, and some of his friends';
nor scarce heard of but from the account of travellers. In that year, Soliman Aga, ambassador
from the Sultan Mahomet the Fourth, arrived, who, with his retinue, brought a considerable
quantity of coffee with them, and made presents of it to persons both of the court and city,
and it is supposed to have established the custom of drinking it.

Two years afterwards, an Armenian of the name of Pascal, set up a coffee-house, but meeting
with little encouragement, left Paris and came to London.

From Anderson's Chronological History of Commerce, it appears that the use of coffee was introduced
into London some years earlier than into Paris. For in 1652 one Mr. Edwards, a Turkey merchant,
brought home with him a Greek servant, whose name was Pasqua, who understood the roasting and
making of coffee, till then unknown in England. This servant was the first who sold coffee,
and kept a house for that purpose in George Yard Lombard Street.

The first mention of coffee in our statute books is anno 1660 (12 Car. II. c. 24), when a duty
of 4d. was laid upon every gallon of coffee made and sold, to be paid by the maker.

The statute 15 Car. II. c. 11. § 15. an. 1663, directs that all coffee-houses should be licensed
at the general quarter sessions of the peace for the county within which they are to be kept.

