ON CALVINISM.

BY THE

REV. WILLIAM HULL,

PERPETUAL CURATE OF ST. GREGORY'S, NORWICH.

Touton gar hapase psyche physikon nomon boethon aute kai symmachon epi ton prakteon ho ton
holon demiourgos hupestato. Dia men tou nomou ten eutheian aute paradeixas hodon: dia de tes
aute dedoremenes autexousiou eleutherias ten ton kreittonon airesin epainou kai apodoches axian
apophenas geron te kai meizonon epathlon.--Eusebius.

LONDON:

GILBERT & RIVINGTON, PRINTERS,

ST. JOHN'S SQUARE.

TO

THE HONOURABLE AND VERY REVEREND

DR. PELLEW,

DEAN OF NORWICH.

Sir,

When I venture to inscribe to you the following pages, I am fearless of having applied to me
Johnson's definition of a dedicator, "one who inscribes his work to a patron with compliment
and servility." Adulation, Sir, from any quarter, you would resent as an indignity, and the
tenor of my own life and writings will secure me from the imputation of servile deference to
others, with whatever reverence I may contemplate their rank, their talents, or their virtues.

When, Sir, under unusual circumstances, I engaged in the ministry of the Church, the presentation
which I received from the Chapter was, on my part, unsolicited and unexpected, and, on yours,
a favour done on public principle to one who was personally unknown to you.

In respectfully presenting to your attention this short treatise, I do not prejudge your opinion
of its contents, whether favourable or adverse. The responsibility rests exclusively with the
writer.

But I cherish the persuasion that it contains no sentiments, and expresses no feelings, which
can be justly displeasing to a dignified clergyman, who has firmly professed his attachment
to the great principles of the Church in times more dangerous to her interests, and more difficult
for her ministers, than any which have heretofore occurred since the great Rebellion.

I have the honour to be, Sir,

your obliged and faithful servant,

WILLIAM HULL.

Eaton next Norwich,

Sept. 1841.

PREFACE.

That strenuous attempts are now in progress to propagate Calvinism in its most objectionable
forms, by impressing into its service that spirit of earnest, but often misinformed piety which
has been awakened within the bosom of the Church, is too notorious to require proof or to admit
of refutation.

The following sheets have been written, and are now published, under the solemn conviction,
that the danger to be apprehended from the extensive diffusion of this creed, both to religion
and the Church, renders it impossible that it should be allowed to pursue its unmolested course,
without correspondent efforts, on the part of sound Churchmen, to counteract its baleful influence.

Superstition, which lays undue stress on outward forms, and fanaticism, which gives credit
to preternatural impulses, and professes a particular kind of inspiration differing not at
all from infallibility, are the Scylla and Charybdis, through which, over stormy waters or
serene, we have to make our steady way. Both are equally intolerant, and both are condemned
by the genius of Protestantism, the constitution of the Church, and the spirit of the Bible.

It is devoutly to be desired, that none who are more regardful of truth than of party, that
none who are alive to the real state of the times, and to the character of the respective interests
which may hereafter be brought into unhappy collision, may hesitate, through fear or favour,
to act in this crisis with moral courage tempered with holy charity. Let them discountenance
all extreme innovations, from whatsoever quarter they may proceed, or by whatsoever distinguished
names they may be sanctioned. Let them rise with manly integrity above the mean suggestions
of temporizing policy, and look only to the substantial and permanent interests of the Church,
which are those of truth and charity, of freedom in alliance with order, of Christianity in
its most ennobling form, and of the public welfare of the British Empire.

If the spirit of rigid Calvinism, under any plausible disguise, should be widely diffused through
the Anglican Church, we need no prophetic mind to announce, that it will lead to consequences
fatal to her peace and liberty, introducing a spiritual despotism whose power will be felt
throughout the length and breadth of the land, overawing, as in the days of John Knox, the
majesty of princes, and spreading its morbid gloom to the sequestered cottage of the peasant,
in the remotest regions and most unfrequented provinces.

History proves, that the men who are deeply imbued with this spirit, merge all other interests
in their devoted zeal to its propagation.

Those of that party who, like Mr. Noel, think "our venerable Church" means no more than "our
venerable selves," will be ready to betray her into the hands of her adversaries, whensoever
they may be deemed strong enough to carry her outworks, and to supplant the orthodox clergyman
by the Calvinistic minister;--while those who reverence the Apostolical succession, or the
general order of the Church, will form within our pale an intolerant party, intriguing for
dominion, restless and oppressive, never to be satisfied until they have crushed or excluded
all who have dared to profess their rejection of the Calvinistic theology.

In the spirit already exemplified by the Pastoral Aid Society, for the detection of whose sectarian
principles we are indebted to the Christian courage of Dr. Molesworth, they will throw obstacles
in the way of candidates for ordination or parochial cures, if they come not up to the doctrinal
standard of their triers: the episcopal functions will be usurped or controlled by the ruthless
zeal of an ecclesiastical faction; the Church societies for the extension of Christian knowledge
and piety will lose their catholic character, dwindling into ignoble channels for spreading
abroad the bigotry of an exclusive school; and gone for ever will be those beautiful charities,
and that liberal regard to the just exercise of Christian and clerical freedom, which have
been recently elicited, and expressed with deliberate solemnity, in the correspondence of the
Archbishop of Canterbury and the Bishop of London, with the reverend Canon Wodehouse, on the
subject of subscription.

The author of this tract has aimed at conciseness, so far as the nature of the argument would
allow, not employing "those arts by which a big book is made." But if the smallness of the
work does not seem to accord with the magnitude of the subject, it is not to be inferred that
the sentiments have been hastily formed or rashly vindicated. For many years they have been
taking deep root in the mind of the writer; nor would he have engaged in the ministry of the
Church, but on the conviction, after serious inquiry, that her faith was primitive and not
Calvinistic.

He has spared no "plainness of speech," in his exposure of dangerous error, but from principle
and feeling he has abstained from the malice of personal vituperation. His warfare is with
pernicious opinions, not with those who hold them, many of whom are impressed with the religious
persuasion, that what they have believed they have received from divine teaching, and that
in upholding their creed they glorify God.

Such divine teaching as the Calvinist claims, and which, if it means any thing, amounts to
plenary inspiration, the writer does not suppose to have superintended his own thoughts while
engaged in the composition of these pages. He would deem it unwarrantable presumption to look
for such miraculous effusion of the Spirit in the ordinary condition of the Church. But he
confidently believes, that, to those who seek it in humble faith, such grace is given as may
purify the dispositions of the heart, and thus guard it from all predilection for error and
all prejudice against the truth. Entertaining these views of the office of the Holy Spirit
under the evangelical dispensation, the writer humbly commits this work, not executed without
dependence on his preventing grace, to Him who is the eternal source and the faithful patron
of truth; uniting in the prayer of this beautiful collect, with all those, who, whatsoever
their doctrinal views of religion, seek for truth as the richest of treasures.

"O Lord, from whom all good things do come; grant to us thy humble servants, that by thy holy
inspiration, we may think those things that be good, and by thy merciful guiding may perform
the same, through our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen."

CONTENTS.

General remarks

Particular objections

I. Calvinism impugns the moral character of the Deity

II. Calvinism is not to be reconciled with the moral responsibility of man

III. Calvinism is opposed to the constitution and the purposes of a visible Church

IV. Calvinism is productive of positively injurious effects, on individual character and on
social happiness

V. Calvinism is not the doctrine of Scripture, nor of the Anglican Church

VI. Calvinism has led to the corruption of Christian doctrine, that the Scriptures may be accommodated
to extreme views of the divine decrees

Appendix

ON CALVINISM.

PART I.

GENERAL REMARKS.

To St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo in Africa, belongs the equivocal distinction of having originated
in the Christian Church a controversy respecting the Divine decrees, a controversy which dates
its origin from the fifth century, and which, after the lapse of thirteen hundred years, exhibits
no symptoms of approaching to its end. In the Roman Communion, it was the source of those bitter
animosities, which reciprocally exasperated the Jesuits and Jansenists. The Protestant Churches,
in the early days of the Reformation, were disturbed by the agitation of this perplexed and
perilous subject. And when Calvin appeared as the vindicator of the Divine sovereignty in predetermining
the fates of men, he only introduced to the Churches of the Reformation a doctrine which had
been transmitted from earlier times, but which, perhaps, he defined with more precision, expounded
with more fearless consistency, and invested with the authority of his own great and illustrious
name. In the present discussion the word Calvinism is used, not to signify those doctrines
of the Church which Calvin held in common with the fathers of the Reformation, but those only
which relate to his extreme views of the Divine decrees, to his predestinarian theology, and
to his modification of other scripture truths to render them harmonious with his principal tenets.

Whatever therefore may be the merits or the final result of this grave and earnest controversy,
it leaves untouched the corruption of human nature, the deity and atonement of Christ, justification
by faith, the necessity of Divine influence to renew and purify the heart, and the scriptural
doctrine of predestination, according to the fore-knowledge of God. This distinction is important;
since, if it be overlooked, the rejectors of Calvinism may be supposed to have also rejected
the capital doctrines of the Reformed faith. Fuller has unwarrantably, perhaps undesignedly,
given his sanction to this imputation in his "Calvinistic and Socinian Systems compared[1]."
But the rejectors of Calvinistic predestination may be not less remote from Socinianism, and
much nearer to genuine Christianity, than the most rigid disciple of that eminent Reformer,
who, in the protestant city of Geneva, committed Servetus to the flames. The Socinian controversy
relates to doctrines, which are the common faith of the Catholic Church; with the peculiarities
of Calvinism it has no concern. And it is worthy of remark, that if one class of doctrinalists
more than another symbolizes in any instance with Socinians, the followers of Calvin form that
class; since it is not easy to discover where lies the essential difference between the doctrine
of philosophical necessity, as held by the greater number of Socinians, and that of predestination,
as maintained by Calvinists.

Both parties rest their dogmas on the same metaphysical grounds. At the same time, as moral
reasoners, the palm of superiority must be awarded to Socinians, who reject most consistently
the doctrine of human corruption, and the atonement of Christ, together with the correspondent
doctrines of the Gospel, as altogether out of place in a scheme which denies the freedom of
human actions and reduces all independent agency to that of the Deity alone; while the Calvinist
subjects the human race to an inevitable necessity of sinning, denies to them individually,
even the semblance of a probationary course--makes them accountable, yet withholds the powers
necessary to a moral agent, and then most unrighteously dooms to perdition all but the elect!
In rejecting such a theory of religion, we reject not the fundamental doctrines of Christianity;
we only vindicate them from objections, which, if unanswerable, are fatal; and we hold to the
Gospel with a firmer conviction and a livelier faith, when we behold its accordance with the
righteousness of the Divine administration and with the moral constitution of man.

On a subject, which has been so long and so laboriously investigated, and to the illustration
of which the most vigorous and profound of human intellects have directed their energies, it
would be vain to expect any novelty of argument. On either side, it may be presumed, the question
has been exhausted, or, that the human mind has done all that its powers can accomplish, however
unsatisfactory or inconclusive, in some respects, the result.

It appears to the writer of these pages, on a calm and summary review of the arguments by which
the doctrines of freedom and necessity have been respectively supported, that those reasonings
which are purely philosophical or metaphysical decidedly preponderate on the side of Necessity.
The prescience of the Deity cannot, on any known principle, be reconciled with the contingency
which attaches to the actions or determinations of man, on the hypothesis of freedom[2]. And,
moreover, if every event requires a cause, and every volition is guided by motives, what are
called the spontaneous acts of the mind must be the necessary result of motives which direct
and command its elections.

But, all correct moral reasoning ranges on the side of freedom. In opposition to the subtle
or forcible reasonings of the metaphysician, every individual can plead his inward consciousness
of voluntary agency. He feels, he knows, that he is free. The exercise of the moral sense,
the judgment which the mind pronounces on its own good or evil movements, the conviction of
having done or neglected a duty, the calm satisfaction of the virtuous mind, and the fierce
or sullen remorse of the criminal, are associated with the insuppressible persuasion of liberty.
Destroy this persuasion, and virtue is despoiled of its loveliness, vice of its deformity.
But it cannot be destroyed. It is the voice of nature. The Creator has so formed us, that we
cannot throw off from ourselves the sense of responsibility, nor regard our fellow creatures
as unfit for praise or blame, for love or hatred. Men treat each other as free agents in all
the transactions of human life, and God administers the government of the world, on the principle
that mankind are capable of self-control, regulating their conduct by the hope of reward or
fear of punishment. If the consciousness of freedom be a delusion, it follows that moral obligation,
duty, reward, guilt, punishment, are delusions, and that religion, however salutary in its
effects, is nothing better than a magnificent imposture.

Calvinism is an attempt to found the religion of Christ on the doctrine of necessity, and to
accommodate its truths, which suppose and require free agency in man, to a dark and appalling
fatalism. But in a case like the present, in which metaphysical reasonings, however profound
or conclusive, so far as they go, are at variance with practical truth, with consciousness,
with the actual state of things, and with the unquestionable procedures of the Divine government,
as confirmed by the scriptures, wisdom would seem to dictate our adhesion to that side of the
question, which is supported by moral arguments.

In taking this part, it does not follow that we are to repudiate, as totally without foundation,
the philosophy and the metaphysics of the necessarian--aequo pretio aestimentur. We may admit,
that the force of his argument, in the present imperfect state of human knowledge, renders
the question perplexed and difficult; that it accounts for the divided opinions of the erudite
and the devout, and that it precludes the hope of a speedy termination of the controversy.
But in assigning to moral reasoning the superior authority, we are governed by a just regard
to the nature of the question at issue, which, being related to the destinies of moral agents,
and the principles on which the Deity conducts his moral government, must be determined, not
by metaphysical, but by moral arguments. When brought to this test, Calvinism appears utterly
indefensible, as being a system at variance with the attributes of the Deity, and irreconcileable
with the moral constitution of human beings, and with the obligations laid upon them by their
Creator. It is falsified by facts.

That the predestinarian theology, which denies the freedom of the will, is supported by names
of great consideration, is cheerfully granted. No man, for example, was ever endowed with a
genius more commanding, with logical powers more acute, with a faculty more surprising of writing
on recondite subjects with force, perspicuity, and nervous eloquence, than President Edwards.
Nevertheless, the correctness of his views is not implicitly to be inferred from his transcendant
intellect and fervent piety.

All the great errors, which have been propagated in the Christian Church, have found advocates
in men of the first character for intellectual power and moral dignity, or they would have
passed away with their authors into immediate oblivion.

In estimating the authority of Edwards as a theologian, it is requisite that we should know
the temperament and habits of that very remarkable person. It is not, perhaps, generally considered,
that great as were the energy and acuteness of his reasoning powers, he was less under the
dominion of these than of his imagination and feelings. In early life this is not unfrequently
the case with persons of imaginative character; but, commonly, the ardent enthusiasm of youth
gives way afterwards to the ascendancy of the higher faculties. Edwards was, constitutionally,
too much the creature of dreams and impulses ever to escape from their control. His gigantic
mind was held in perpetual bondage. His natural temperament was fostered throughout the whole
period which moulds and fixes the character, by his holding little converse with human beings
beyond the sphere of a particular religious community in an obscure American town, and by an
almost uninterrupted contemplation of nature in her gloomy and awful forms, amid the silence
of uncultivated plains, and the solitude of interminable forests. The profound feeling, the
intense excitement, which accompanied his early devotional exercises, were such as to insure
a permanent attachment to every principle and every impression of that susceptible age. The
visions of a warm, and often morbid, imagination continued to be cherished with religious confidence
and love for ever afterwards. Every doubt, of what he once had received for truth, was anxiously
suppressed in the manhood of his mind as an infernal suggestion; and the acuteness of his reasoning
powers, by supplying him at all times with an argument, for what he conceived it his duty to
believe, served, not to emancipate him from false apprehensions of truth, but to rivet upon
him more firmly the chains of ignorance or error. When argument was doubtful, a dogged fanaticism
supplied its place. This may be illustrated by a particular instance, and bearing directly
on the subject of our present discussion.

It cannot be doubted, by any person qualified to appreciate his writings, that his views of
the Divine sovereignty are resolvable into a system of absolute fatalism, so far as the actions
and destinies of men are concerned. Reason and conscience revolt from the consequences involved
in such a system; all our moral instincts condemn it. But it was instilled into his mind by
Calvinistic instructors in the days of his boyhood; his imagination was perpetually haunted
by it; and having identified it with the truth of divine revelation, which he held in religious
veneration and awe, he finally vanquished every doubt respecting it, not by the deliberate
exercise of his judgment, on a calm investigation of evidence, but by the force of his religious
feelings, and of his ascendant imagination. Let him tell his own story.

"From my childhood up," he says, "my mind had been full of objections against the doctrine
of God's sovereignty, in choosing whom He would to eternal life, and rejecting whom He pleased;
leaving them eternally to perish, and to be everlastingly tormented in hell. It used to appear
like a horrible doctrine to me. But I remember the time very well, when I seemed to be convinced
and fully satisfied as to this sovereignty of God, and his justice in thus eternally disposing
of men, according to his sovereign pleasure. But never could give any account, how, or by what
means I was thus convinced, not in the least imagining at the time, nor a long time after,
that there was any extraordinary influence of God's Spirit in it; but only that now I saw further,
and my reason apprehended the justice and reasonableness of it." In this extraordinary passage,
the most instructive he ever penned, he confesses, undesignedly but clearly, that his faith
in the Calvinistic theology did not rest on those arguments by which he has confirmed so many
others in that tremendous creed, but was the result of supposed supernatural illumination.
The true solution would be, "Sit pro ratione voluntas!"

Much as we find to admire and revere in this eminent man, the history of his mind forbids us
to rely on him with implicit confidence as an expositor of divine truth. His religion was exalted,
his genius wonderful, but the subordination of his judgment to his imagination was an immense
evil, producing an almost superstitious dread of the operations of his own mighty mind, suppressing
its energies, its growth, and its expansion. He presents an example, not less of the weakness
than of the majesty of human nature. We cease to wonder, when he describes the happiness of
the spirits of the redeemed in heaven, as being derived, in part, from their listening to the
groans and lamentations of lost souls in hell. Nor can we doubt, that if he had been born and
educated a member of the Church of Rome, he would have lived and died, like Fenelon or Pascal,
a splendid ornament of that impure communion, a conscientious advocate of that servile faith.

Calvinism has never had another advocate equally qualified with Edwards to vindicate its awful
dogmata; and if, by his own confession, his most potent arguments would have failed to produce
conviction in his own mind, without God's special influence, we see reason to suspect the validity
of these arguments, until we have proof that he did indeed receive from heaven miraculous illumination.
Such special influence we may with propriety question, since a claim to inspiration can be
supported only by the exercise of miraculous powers. Deny, therefore, the inspiration of this
profound writer, of which there is no proof, and we have his own authority against the conclusiveness
of his own arguments; since he confesses that by their cogency alone they are insufficient
to produce conviction in opposition to our just and natural conceptions of the righteous character
of God.

Let us not, therefore, crouch with timid servility to great names. The opinions of men of erudition,
and genius, and holy zeal for religion, are to be examined with modest deference, but not to
be received with implicit credulity. In the most enlightened and holy men, who, since the decease
of the apostles, have served God and his Christ; in the fathers of the ancient Church; in those
who headed the Protestant Reformation, and lived as saints, or died as martyrs; in Luther,
Calvin, Cranmer, Knox, we discover humiliating proofs of imperfection and fallibility. And,
while the fundamental truths of Christianity have been preserved in the Catholic Church, those
truths have been mingled or associated with errors so injurious and degrading, that no blind
faith is to be rested on any human authority. Let us uphold the majesty of divine revelation,
and vindicate our right and our duty to interpret the sacred page--not by the traditions of
fallible men, not by the metaphysics of the schools, not by the "special influences" which
an enthusiastic mind may construe into divine teaching, and which may be pleaded, with equal
truth or falsehood, for every form of error; but by a sober reference to those moral perfections
of the Deity, and to those essential attributes of human nature, the knowledge of which lies
at the foundation of all sound religious belief. These are to be learned from the Scriptures,
and are the key to their right interpretation.

Edwards, incomparably the most able advocate of Calvinism, since the days of the reformer himself,
is not a solitary example of the way in which a zealous pleader may, unwarily, betray and weaken
his own cause.

Mr. Scott, in his "force of truth," gives an account of his own conversion to Calvinism not
very dissimilar to that of Edwards, and not in any degree more honourable to the cause he proposes
to defend. The argument of that work may be summed up in few words. Mr. Scott entertained a
great dislike of Calvinistic doctrines. He rejected the evidence by which they were supported,
as being insufficient to establish a creed which appeared to him most objectionable. Yet, strong
as were his prejudices against it, they ultimately gave way, and, therefore, Calvinism must
be the truth. But, in both instances, the impression designed to be made on the mind of the
reader is the same, that is, that the Spirit of God accomplished what the force of argument
had failed to do. Mr. Scott, therefore, adds his testimony to that of President Edwards, confessing
that Calvinism is not supported by proofs sufficient in themselves to carry conviction to the
human mind, without special illumination from above; an illumination, which, assuredly, the
religious opposers may as righteously claim, as the religious defenders of Calvinism. For what
Christian man does not pray for the guidance of God's good Spirit? The dispassionate reader
of "The Force of Truth," will naturally say, that the arguments for the Calvinistic creed were
either sound or unsound. If the former, then Mr. Scott was either very obtuse or very obstinate
to resist so long their power. If the latter, he acted with great weakness in yielding at length
to insufficient evidence, on the score of an undefinable impulse. In either case, his name
is divested of commanding authority in the view of reasonable men. Yet it can hardly be doubted,
that this claim to special teaching from the fountain of wisdom and of truth, has done more,
incalculably more, to awe the minds of men into submission, and thus to obtain currency for
their opinions, than the joint confession of these popular writers, to the insufficiency of
their own arguments, has availed to render suspected the force of their reasoning. The impression
made on the generality of minds would be, that men so good, and so candid in confessing their
own obstinacy, could not be mistaken, in believing themselves, at a subsequent period, to be
inspired and infallible[3].

The advocates of Calvinism differ remarkably from each other in the tone and spirit of their
writings, as their habits of thought and feeling are modified by circumstances. The American
divines of the school of Edwards have carried out his principles with unflinching consistency,
not hesitating to impute to the Deity, in unqualified terms, the eternal decrees which fix
the weal or woe of the human race for ever. The cold and heartless manner in which these men
treat the subject, and the stoical apathy with which they contemplate the result of their hard
metaphysics, are extremely remote from our usual conceptions of piety and humanity. Well might
that superlative woman, Mrs. Susanna Wesley, say, "The doctrine of predestination, as maintained
by rigid Calvinists, is very shocking, and ought utterly to be abhorred." The dark spirit of
inflexible wrath which the American Calvinists have imputed to the Deity, together with their
coarse caricatures of the Gospel, may account for, but cannot justify, the terms in which Dr.
Chancing has thought fit to assail the orthodox faith, confounding on all occasions scriptural
Christianity, as held by the Catholic Church, with the dogmas of an extravagant creed. To understand
his eloquent and indignant declamations, we must read the transatlantic expounders of the Calvinistic
theology.

In general, the English writers of any name, are more guarded and less unfeeling. They do not
at once and directly charge God with being the author of sin. The late Dr. Williams of Rotherham
composed a voluminous work on the subject, entitled "equity and sovereignty," in which he gives,
what he considers, a new theory of the origin of moral evil. To redeem the divine character
from the imputation of harshness in the decree of reprobation, he supposes mankind under a
necessary tendency to moral defection, as dependent and created beings; and that it was in
mere equity, that the wicked were left, not decreed, to perdition. The hypothesis of Dr. Williams
is already exploded. It was examined and refuted by the Rev. William Parry, of Wymondly, in
a piece entitled "Strictures on the Origin of Moral Evil." For reasoning, acute, profound,
and perspicuous, both metaphysical and moral, this work has seldom been surpassed. And the
devout and courteous spirit in which it is written, presents an example, beautiful and instructive,
of dispassionate controversy.

"Upon a review of the argument," Mr. Parry writes, "there appear to be strong reasons for considering
the whole of Dr. Williams' hypothesis, to account for the origin of evil, as highly objectionable,
and worthy of rejection; because it is founded on a false principle, which identifies physical
and moral tendency; is incompatible with the nature and phenomena of mind; involves the existence
of an antecedent fate or absolute necessity, which controlled the divine operations; is inconsistent
with the natural and moral perfections of God, and the scriptural account of the state in which
man was created; is expressed in obscure and inapplicable language; and is so far from agreeing
with equity, that, when taken together, it represents the Divine Being as having at first,
created intelligent and accountable creatures with such powers as would enable them to sin,
but with none which would enable them to avoid it."

The theory of Dr. Williams found favour with many Calvinists, because it assumed somewhat of
a philosophical aspect, and was put forth as a clear "demonstration." But some of its ablest
defenders have since abandoned it to that oblivion, from which no efforts can save an elaborate
speculation, ungrounded in reason or revelation, and repugnant to common sense.

In England the public mind has been so powerfully and happily influenced by the anti-calvinistic
genius of the liturgy, offices, and discipline of the Anglican Church, that the grossness and
extravagancy of the American divines have been tolerated chiefly by those who have not fallen
under her instructions, or who have not had the advantage of a liberal education and extensive
reading. In general, whether within or without the pale of the Church, its more intelligent
advocates have, until lately, exhibited it in a modified form, and thrown over it a veil of
mystery which has hidden its most appalling deformities from the sight, while by the less skilful
or sagacious only, it has been adapted more to the fears or affections of women, than to the
understandings of men. Unhappily, the grosser representations of this doctrine are now coming
into repute in quarters where, formerly, they would not have been endured, and thus afford
another warning example of the "facilis descensus Averni."

But under all possible modifications, it is essentially erroneous; and this small treatise
has originated in no love of discord, or taste for polemic excitement, but in a solemn sense
of duty,--the duty of aiding, in some humble measure, the more learned and important labours
of others who are "set for the defence of the truth." The writer aims only at a common sense
view of the subject, showing that Calvinism is a dangerous speculation, useless for every holy
and salutary purpose, inapplicable to the hopes and the duties of a religious life, at variance
with our knowledge of God, our obligations as Christians, and all our finer sentiments and
more generous sympathies as men. So far as its influence is exerted, it contracts the understanding
and hardens the heart.

Bishop Tomline's "Refutation of Calvinism," is too well known and justly appreciated to need
recommendation from the writer of these papers. Faber "on the Primitive Doctrine of Election,"
is an important work, composed with logical precision, and founded on a laborious analysis
of the Scriptures. The intelligent reader will be instructed and deeply interested by "An Inquiry
into the Doctrines of Necessity and Predestination," by Dr. Copleston, the Bishop of Llandaff.

From the latter work is extracted the following summary of the peculiar and distinctive doctrines
of the Calvinistic creed, in which it is exhibited, not in a moderated and qualified form,
as it sometimes appears in the writings of individuals, but in its true and undisguised character,
as maintained by a grave assembly of predestinarian divines.

CONCLUSIONS OF THE SYNOD OF DOST, AS EXHIBITED BY TILENUS.

ART. 1. OF DIVINE PREDESTINATION.

ART. 2. OF THE MERIT AND EFFECT OF CHRIST'S DEATH.

That Jesus Christ hath not suffered death for any other, but for those elect only; having neither
had any intent nor commandment of his Father to make satisfaction for the sins of the whole world.

ART. 3. OF MAN'S WILL IN THE STATE OF NATURE.

That by Adam's fall, his posterity lost their free-will, being put to an unavoidable necessity
to do or not to do, whatsoever they do or do not, whether it be good or evil, being thereunto
predestinated by the eternal and effectual secret decree of God.

ART. 4. OF THE MANNER OF CONVERSION.

That God, to save his elect from the corrupt mass, doth beget faith in them, by a power equal
to that whereby He created the world and raised up the dead; insomuch, that such unto whom
He gives that grace, cannot reject it, and the rest, being reprobate, cannot accept it.

ART. 5. OF THE CERTAINTY OF PERSEVERANCE.

That such as have once received that grace by faith, can never fall from it finally or totally,
notwithstanding the most enormous sins they can commit.

PART II.

PARTICULAR OBJECTIONS.

I.--CALVINISM IMPUGNS THE MORAL CHARACTER OF THE DEITY.

The existence of moral evil is a fact, not to be denied by any man who reverences his own understanding;
and that it seemed fit to the Divine Wisdom to permit its introduction into the world, is equally
beyond contradiction, unless we limit the divine power, and suppose that, by a necessity antecedent
to the divine will, and controlling the divine conduct, the Deity himself acts, not spontaneously
but from coercion. That sin, with its awful consequences, should even exist by permission,
under the administration of infinite benevolence, has been regarded by theologians as one of
the most perplexing mysteries of "the deep things of God."

But Calvinism leads to the direct and inevitable conclusion, not only that God has permitted
the fall of angels and of men, but that He is himself the original author of their defection,
and of the guilt and suffering which have been incurred by disobedience. No subtlety of argument,
no special refinements or metaphysical distinctions, no ingenious evasions can rescue from
this fatal conclusion the Calvinistic exposition of the divine decrees. If the Creator in the
construction of the human mind rendered it naturally, morally, absolutely impossible, that
man should maintain his obedience to the divine law under the circumstances in which he was
placed--the act of transgression, be it what it may, must be traced to the will and intention
of the Deity--the effect, sin, guilt, condemnation, undefinable misery, diffused over the face
of the creation, and coextensive with the numberless generations of the family of man--the
cause, God; that Being who is perfect reason, perfect goodness, light without darkness, love
without malevolence; who cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth He any man; with whom
is no variableness neither shadow of turning! Contrasted with this monstrous compound of impiety
and absurdity, which makes infinite goodness the eternal source of infinite misery, there is
wisdom in the Manichaean doctrine of two conflicting principles, holding a divided dominion
over the universe, and contending, one for the production of the universal degradation and
wretchedness, the other, for the purity and bliss of all intellectual and moral beings!

The advocates of scriptural truth have not failed to expose, with holy indignation and eloquent
remonstrance, the inconsistency of these views of the divine government with the entire scope
and spirit of the evangelic economy of grace. While the love of God to a fallen world is the
great theme of the apostolic ministry, and, in language too explicit to be misunderstood, the
propitiation of Christ is said to be for the sins "of the whole world,"--while, in exact agreement
with the consolatory declaration that God "delighteth not in the death of a sinner," the apostles
of Christ are commissioned to "preach the gospel to every creature,"--we are taught by Calvinism,
that the God of truth is only mocking the great mass of his miserable creatures with a semblance
of mercy, from whose tenderness they are excluded, and with promises and invitations which
He never designed should be accepted by them. A dark and unrelenting fate has already sealed
their destiny, and their perdition is rendered inevitable before they have committed those
offences for which, as if in derision, they are commanded to repent, in order that they may
escape the wrath of the Almighty. Thus, in total disregard of all that is holy and majestic
in the character of the Deity, He is described as a Being invested with the most detestable
of Satanic attributes, assuming the gentle affections of a father, only to exercise more effectually
the wanton power of a tyrant, and treacherously inviting our confidence and our love, when,
with such falsehood and cruelty, as the most debased of his creatures would not be able to
perpetrate, He is only preparing victims for his inexorable malice.

Let it not be said, in opposition to this, that we are imperfect judges, in any particular
case, of the rectitude of the divine procedures; that our ignorance renders our decision in
such a case daring and presumptuous. We are not ignorant of what is meant either by justice
or mercy. These moral qualities are essentially the same in nature, whether in created beings
or in their Creator. The only difference is in degree. In the Deity they are infinite; and,
if infinite justice and mercy are compatible with conduct which, on a smaller scale, would
expose a human being to eternal infamy, then are we disqualified for all just conceptions of
the character of God. If wanton cruelty be consistent with Divine compassion, then may deception
be reconciled with inviolable faith, and they, who deem themselves to be happy in the electing
love of God, may awake at last to the fearful discovery, that, having indulged in the dream
of special grace, they are only reserved for a destiny still more terrible than others, whom
they had abandoned as reprobate to the sovereign wrath of God! By what infatuation are men
induced to rely on any supposed distinctions in favour of themselves, when they have removed
the only grounds of confidence in the righteous administration of the Deity?

It is an impressive feature in the works of rigid predestinarians, that their own minds seem
to partake of the fearful gloom with which they depict the divine attributes. They appear awed
and terror -stricken with the stern aspect of the great Being whose moral character they have
distorted, until they tremble at the creations of their own imagination. They write as men
whose minds are rendered morbid with mysterious fears, rather than brightened into holy gladness,
by a filial love of God. They seem to be vindicating with servile dread a character, whose
wrath they would deprecate, and whose doubtful favour they would propitiate on their own behalf.
Even when they express their persuasion of their own interest in "special grace," it is more
in the spirit of men who are conscious of being the favoured objects of capricious tyranny,
than of that serene and hopeful and cheering confidence which inspires the devout heart, when
it contemplates through a happier medium the beneficent and universal Father. Nor is this unnatural.
The moral character of the Deity, as misrepresented by Calvinism, both unsettles all our ideas
of rectitude, and renders insecure our hold upon Infinite Goodness.

That the mental disease of Cowper was intensely aggravated by depressing views of the divine
character, which he received from Newton and others, and that the consolations which might
have soothed his mind, from a scriptural view of the grace of the gospel, were neutralised
or destroyed by his supposing himself the victim of an irreversible decree, is clear to every
impartial reader of his most interesting and most melancholy life. Yet of his piety we have
this touching proof, that, amidst the wildest aberrations of his intellect, and while oppressed
with the conviction that he was numbered with the reprobate, his persuasion of the rectitude
of the divine government never wavered; he acquiesced in the doom which he believed to await
him; and declared that if it were the will of God that he should perish, he would not lift
a finger to reverse his fate! Who would not lament, that a mind thus tempered to pious confidence,
should be taught by a pernicious creed to distrust its own interest in the love of God--a delusion
which passed away only in death!

II.--CALVINISM IS NOT TO BE RECONCILED WITH THE MORAL RESPONSIBILITY OF MAN.

Whatever extent we assign to the corruption of human nature, by which its moral powers have
been impaired, or the soul disqualified for the due and proper use of those powers, it is plain
that men are still capable of acting, and of being treated as the subjects of moral government.
Calvinistic writers do themselves admit the turpitude of sin and the loveliness of virtue--that
vice entails suffering, and that happiness is the consequence of a religious conformity to
the will of God. That is, setting aside all special refinements by which they attempt to disprove
that the present state of man is probationary, they confess that practically mankind are treated
as accountable beings whose guilt is punished and their goodness rewarded. This broad and unquestionable
fact defies controversy. Although we may not be able to give a definition of freedom which
may satisfy the philosopher, and although we may concede to the opposers of the freedom of
the will, that virtue and vice--moral good and moral evil--are to be predicated, not of the
cause, whether it be freedom or fate, from whence our volitions spring, but of the good or
evil nature of the volitions themselves --in whatever way these questions are decided, or,
if we leave them undecided, as being beyond the present grasp of the human intellect, men are
unquestionably subjected by the Deity to the laws of a moral economy. They are, sooner or later,
rendered happy in exact proportion to their conformity to the commands of God, and miserable
if they remain rebellious.

And all we contend for is, that such a state of things can never be explained on the supposition
of absolute predestination or inevitable necessity, founded on the irreversible decrees of
Heaven. The reason appears on a moment's consideration. The good or evil nature of the volition
belongs, on this hypothesis, not to the created being, who is a passive instrument, without
actual power --but to the Creator, who is the only real agent, as well as the efficient cause.
The instrument by which He accomplishes his purposes may be good or evil, the volitions of
that instrument may be characterised by whatever qualities you please, still, a mere instrument
is not an object of moral approbation or blame; no responsibility attaches to it, and the condition
on which it acts is perfectly incongruous with all the ideas we have of reward or punishment.
These are inapplicable to a state of fatalism. The volitions, and the actions they produce,
are in reality those of the Deity. To Him they belong, and to Him alone. On this critical and
decisive point all the great Calvinistic writers break down. While they award to human beings
the treatment due to moral agents, they deny to them the attributes without which they cannot
be responsible for their actions.

To beings under moral government, personal agency is essential; but Calvinistic fatalism reduces
all agency to that of the Deity alone. The human soul is moved mechanically by impulse from
without, and passively yields to an irresistible power.

It supposes the exercise of faculties by which we are made sensible of our relation to the
Deity, and our obligation to obey his laws. Hence results the consciousness of rectitude or
guilt, and all the noble motives by which we are led to self-government and self -renunciation--from
a sense of duty, and with a view to future happiness in the enjoyment of the divine approbation.
But Calvinistic necessity destroys the majesty of the human mind, as "an arbiter enthroned
in its own dominion, endowed with an initiating power, and forming its determinations for good
or for evil by an inherent and indefeasible prerogative." It tells us that we have neither
power to act nor freedom to fall--that our sense of liberty is delusive, that we are predestined
to sin or to holiness by a decree of the infinite mind, and that our fate has been sealed from
eternity! If we really believe it and act upon it, our moral energies are for ever suppressed,
and the consciousness of virtue and of guilt must give way to the humiliating persuasion that
we can do nothing, and that we have nothing to do, but to yield to our lot and await our doom,
whether to be lost or saved!

The absurdity of such a theory of religion is a light consideration compared with the perilous
consequences it must produce, if it were possible that the mass of ignorant and unreflecting
creatures, of which society is composed, should really believe it true and act in accordance
with their belief. Instructed to regard their present conduct and future allotment, as being
already determined, the notion of a state of trial, in which they were accountable to God,
would be cast off, with all its salutary restraints upon the passions, and all its noble incentives
to a virtuous life. Nor would it be possible to enforce the laws of morality by mere temporal
sanctions, the fear of exile, the dungeon, or the gibbet, when conscience no longer enforced
the dictates of religious faith. The great auxiliary and support of all human authority is
to be found in that most noble attribute of human nature--the sense of duty, which ceases to
operate the moment we lose the consciousness of freedom, believing that our thoughts, our actions,
ourselves, are but necessary links in an eternal chain of causes and effects.

Such a theory of religion renders it absurd to admonish mankind of their duty, whether to obey
the law of God, or to believe the Gospel of Christ.

To this reasoning the Calvinist replies: "I acknowledge that men are morally, spiritually dead.
But at the command of God I would preach to the dead: at his word the dead shall hear and live."
But this reply is irrelevant to the great points of the argument. It remains to be proved,
that God would be just in punishing as a crime that spiritual death, of which, on the Calvinistic
theory, He is the author;--that it is possible for infinite goodness to subject created beings
to an inevitable necessity of breaking his laws, and then hand them over to perdition. This
is the point which cannot be evaded; and it is fatal to the predestinarian theology. Doubtless
God can raise the dead, literally or spiritually; but that does not touch the question.

III.--CALVINISM IS OPPOSED TO THE CONSTITUTION AND THE PURPOSES OF A VISIBLE CHURCH.

By the visible Church is meant the great body of persons who are baptized into the faith of
Christ, and openly profess his religion; and the term is used in contradistinction to the invisible
Church, which consists of real, sincere, and spiritual disciples of our Lord. These may be
said to be invisible, since to search the heart and penetrate its secrets, is the prerogative
of God alone. The truly faithful, as distinguished from the mere professors of Christianity,
will not be seen in their distinct character until the hour when the final judgment shall separate
the righteous from the wicked. "Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom
of their Father."

The visible Church, with her apostolic ministry, her worship, her sacraments, and her various
provisions for the edification of the body of Christ, is instituted and constructed on the
manifest principle that the present is a probationary state, and that those who by her ministrations
are brought under the obligations of the Christian covenant, are not thereby absolutely but
conditionally sealed to eternal life, which is suspended on their faithful adhesion to Christ,
and final perseverance in his holy ways.

In exact accordance with this statement, our Lord describes the kingdom of heaven, or the Christian
Church, as a field in which the wheat and the tares grow up together until the harvest; and
as a net cast into the sea and gathering of all kinds of fishes, bad and good, which are afterwards
to be separated.

Not a syllable occurs in the New Testament, not a single fact transpires in the history of
the apostolical Churches, to justify the persuasion, that such only as were decreed to eventual
salvation, were received as members of the Christian community. Such an order of fellowship,
had it really existed, would have amounted to a pre-judgment of characters, anticipating and
superseding the judicial sentence of the last day. In that case, to obtain an entrance into
the communion of the Church was virtually to be proclaimed a member, not only of the visible,
but also of the invisible society of the redeemed, rendering needless all exhortations to perseverance,
and impossible all danger of apostasy. But such an exclusive and select and judicial order
of fellowship never did and never can exist under the present dispensation, which is essentially
a mixed state, and one of probation, supplying the means of working out our own salvation,
and of making our calling and election sure, but not requiring evidence of our effectual calling
and of our certain election to life previous to our introduction to the worship and sacraments
of the Church.

From the earliest records we have of the administration of ecclesiastical affairs, as well
as from all later history, we may learn that the Catholic Church never aimed at the senseless
project of a pure communion, which, by excluding all but the finally elect, should rival in
sanctity the fellowship of the saints above.

The worship of the Christian Church has always been open, unrestricted, unconfined by classical
distinctions, such as those of the elect and the reprobate. The gates of the temple are closed
against none who would join in the celebration of its holy rites. God is the Father of all;
Christ the Saviour of all; the manifestation of the Spirit was given for the profit of all;
the Gospel is to be preached to all.

The same free and charitable principle has directed the administration of the sacraments, a
circumstance the more remarkable, since, in the judgment of the most eminent Fathers of the
Church, these are the channels by which spiritual grace is actually communicated to all who
are rightfully baptized, and religiously partake of the Lord's supper. The formularies of our
own branch of Christ's Catholic Church are so clear and definite on this point, that every
effort of ingenious casuistry to give them another meaning, or to reconcile their use with
the Calvinistic theology, has ended in discomfiture. This grace is imparted, not as to the
elect and to them exclusively, but as to beings who are free and responsible, who have to account
for their use of this sacred and inestimable gift, and who may forfeit its blessings by subsequent
guilt and final impenitence. The present state of our knowledge, or rather ignorance of the
philosophy of the human mind, may not supply us with a satisfactory answer for those, who,
in a cavilling or sceptical spirit, ask, "How can these things be?" But it is the doctrine
of the Scriptures and of the Church, and it is perplexed with fewer difficulties than will
be found to press upon every other hypothesis.

Supposing the Calvinistic doctrine of predestination to be founded in truth, the very existence
of the visible Church in its present form is a mystery which requires to be solved. No part
of its constitution or order harmonises with a scheme based on fatalism, and limiting the grace
of Heaven to a narrow section of the human family.

The Sabbath bell, joyously or solemnly, invites all who hear to come to the house of God; and
in the name of the "great congregation" the minister of Christ addresses the Deity, saying,
"Our Father which art in heaven!"

The ministers of the Church administer to all adult converts from paganism, Judaism, or Mahometanism,
who make a credible profession, and to all infants, whose sureties engage for their Christian
education, the rite of baptism, signifying the remission of past sin, original or actual, and
pledging the communication of whatever grace is needful to remedy or assist the weakness of
nature in the moral warfare with temptation.

But Calvinism not only abjures this indiscriminate bestowment of grace; but denies that even
the elect are regenerated in baptism, leaving it to the arbitrary determination of God's decree,
at what given period, and under what circumstances, they shall be, instantaneously, and without
regard to any foregoing state of mind or habits of life, transformed into the beloved, and
loving, and lovely children of God[4]!

In a word, Calvinism supposes and requires an order of administration totally distinct from
that which actually exists in the visible Church of God. And, accordingly, various Calvinistic
communions, which have separated from the Church since the Reformation, have attempted a literal
"fellowship of saints," presuming to discriminate from the mass of nominal Christians those
who have experienced the conclusive and saving change of Calvinistic conversion, and admitting
such only to the full enjoyment of Church privileges and to the Lord's table. It seems not
a little surprising, that not only sagacious individuals but extensive communities should persevere
in an attempt which, in the nature of things, can lead only to disappointment; for, the sincerity
of that species of conversion which is supposed to be final, of that grace which is said to
be irrevocable, can never be decided until the Judge of all has pronounced his verdict. In
the meantime, the terms of communion must agree in some measure with the actual state of man;
and when the matter is quietly examined, it appears that even in Calvinistic communions the
terms of membership are reduced to a profession of the received "faith and order," and an assurance,
on the part of the initiated, that he believes himself to be a converted person by God's special
grace. This is all that is required besides evidence of good moral character; more than this
is impracticable. The spirit of Calvinism can never be fully embodied in a system of Ecclesiastical
polity corresponding exactly with its own nature, and marked by its own exclusiveness; for
who shall discern the elect?

This discovery appears to have been made by an eminent Calvinistic clergyman of the present
day, who, instead of coming to the legitimate conclusion that Calvinism is therefore untenable,
as being an impracticable system, has recourse to a delusive theory of ecclesiastical fellowship,
which confounds the visible with the invisible Church, or reduces the former to a mere nullity.
According to his view of the subject, the Church of Christ consists, not of the collective
body of persons who may happen to be in fellowship with any particular Christian communities,
nor of the aggregate of persons who throughout the world make an outward profession of our
holy faith, but of those, and those only, who "maintain the doctrines of grace, and uphold
the authority of Christ in the world," with whatever denomination of Christians they are in
external fellowship. These, being the truly regenerate, are to tolerate each other's differences
on minor questions, to love each other as being one in Christ, and to co-operate in every way
for the diffusion of their common principles throughout the world. Mr. Noel's theory confirms
the statement made in this section, that Calvinism, which it is presumed he means by "the doctrines
of grace," denies the claim of any mixed body of professing Christians, such as the Anglican,
or the Lutheran, or the Scottish, or any other church, in its aggregate character, to be a
church, or a distinct branch of the Catholic Church. That is, Calvinism is opposed to the constitution
and the purposes of a visible church. Mr. Noel's theory is fatal to its existence. For, when
it is said of those exclusively, who, in whatever denomination, "maintain the doctrines of
grace,"--"and this one body is the church,"--it is clearly proveable, that these persons have
no intelligible grounds on which to rest that high and exclusive pretension; they are not the
visible church.

These persons may, or may not, be members of the spiritual or invisible Church; that is known
only to the Searcher of the heart. They may or may not be the most holy and sincere individuals
in the several churches or denominations with which they hold external communion; that also
remains to be confirmed or refuted by "the final sentence and unalterable doom." But they do
not constitute what is commonly understood by the visible Church of God. They have no ministry,
no worship, no administration of the sacraments, visibly distinct from the mass of persons
who are of the same external fellowship with themselves; and the error of assigning to them
the distinction of being alone the true Church arises from the ambiguity of the word Church,
on which changes are rung, producing a confusion of ideas--a double confusion of ideas, "confusion
worse confounded." What is the mental process by which Mr. Noel arrives at this point? First,
the invisible Church is tacitly put and mistaken for the visible, the truly spiritual for the
nominal, it being assumed that we can know the hearts of others. Then, secondly, this invisible
Church is supposed to become visible, and to be alone visible, in the persons of those who
maintain the doctrines of grace; while the really external Church, consisting of the entire
body of professing Christians throughout the world, vanishes out of sight, and is declared
to have no ecclesiastical existence! The truth is, that Calvinism and a visible Church are
incongruous ideas, and that no man, of whatever talent he may be possessed, can make them harmonize.
The Calvinist believes, and is consistent in his belief, that the elect only are "the Church,"
but since it is impossible to discriminate them from others, it is impossible to unite them
in an exclusive visible fellowship. And, if it were possible, they would form such a Church
as never before existed. Calvinism is irreconcileable with the order which has descended from
the apostolic age, by the consent of the Catholic Church, and with any visible constitution.

If Mr. Noel has succeeded in making converts to his theory of a visible Church, from the difficulty
they find in detecting its fallacies, it only proves, that

    "Sheer no-meaning puzzles more than wit."

The dissenter who, on objecting to a Church rate, said, that "If all Churchmen were like Mr.
Noel, neither he nor his brethren would object to join them," does not seem to have been aware
that they were already members of Mr. Noel's Church. Or, what is more probable, it was designed
significantly to hint to that reverend gentleman, that he was no more attached than themselves
to the Church of which he is a pastor, and whose ordination vows are upon him,--and that with
Churchmen who are prepared so to betray or deny their Church, under an erroneous sense of duty,
dissenters may without difficulty form an alliance[5].

When Lord Chatham taunted the Church with having "a Calvinistic creed, a popish liturgy, and
an Arminian clergy," that illustrious person was the author of a libel on this holy and apostolical
institution. Her creed is not Calvinistic, for it says nothing about absolute predestination;
her liturgy it not popish, for there is no worship of saints or of the Virgin; her clergy are
not Arminian, for their moderation has preserved them, as a body, from all extremes in doctrine,
and that, as well as their unrivalled erudition and intellectual power, has been the admiration
of the most eminent protestant divines and men of letters in Europe. And to her truly scriptural
character, especially her rejection of the Calvinistic theology, with its gloomy, turbulent,
and intolerant spirit, may be traced the high tone of moral feeling and practical reverence
of religion which have honourably distinguished the people of England. Happily, Calvinism in
its palmy days was confined to the Puritanical party, which made comparatively small progress
within the pale of the Church; while the most influential of her clergy, and the great majority
of her well educated laity, embraced the doctrines of a more generous and scriptural theology.
Without falling into Pelagianism, a charge made by Calvinists on all who reject the system
improperly called "the doctrines of grace," they held the great evangelic truth that Christ
"died for all," and its correspondent views of the benevolence of God, and the moral dignity
of human nature, impaired, but not destroyed, by the fall.

The principles of the remonstrants, without being servilely embraced, influenced and modified
the religious opinions of the people of England, who were never generally favourable, either
to the dogmas or the discipline of the Genevan reformer, and to this circumstance are we largely
indebted for the manly and the moral character of our country.

This statement, founded on the history of the Reformation and the times which followed, is
not intended as an indiscriminate attack on the moral character of Calvinists. Many of them
are to be classed with the holiest of men; not because they are Calvinists, but because their
erroneous notions are rendered innoxious, by the prevalence of a sincere piety, and by a secret
and practical disbelief of the principles which, in speculation or imagination, they seem to hold.

It would be both unjust and uncharitable to judge any class of persons simply by the creed
they subscribe, or to impute to them the consequences which might be supposed to follow from
a rigid adherence to its doctrines. There are antagonist principles at work; there is the law
written on the heart; there is grace to counteract the tendency of false impressions; there
is the love of God and of man to render those who are truly good men superior to any bad principles
they have unhappily imbibed. Their Christianity is dominant, and their Calvinism is made harmless.

But evil speculation has a tendency in all minds to lessen or destroy the power of those dictates
of conscience which are honourable to us as moral agents; and it will counteract, so far as
it goes, the salutary influence of those scriptural truths which still retain their hold upon
the judgment or the feelings. In but few instances, comparatively, can Calvinism be altogether
harmless; in the ordinary course of things, it is productive of results positively injurious.

In persons of serious religion, it will produce opposite effects, as they may be gentle and
timid, or bold and presumptuous. In the former, anxiety, fearful apprehension, deep distress,
approaching to despondency, lest the tremendous decree of reprobation should have been recorded
against them in the indelible page. In the latter, who can bring a sanguine temperament of
mind to the contemplation of the subject, the effect may be, and often is, unbounded confidence,
leading to self-complacency and spiritual pride; the very natural result of believing that
they are special objects of the love of God, and that their persuasion is a divine impulse,
God speaking to the heart. Spiritual pride may assume the aspect of profound humility, and
thus impose on its victim by the notion that he is only magnifying the sovereign grace of Heaven
in his election to eternal life. But such is the weakness of human nature, that the consciousness
of this high distinction needs to be chastened by very lofty views of the moral virtue required
by Christianity, and by very humbling conceptions of our own, to prevent a false and dangerous
elation of the heart.

And, in how many instances this consciousness is mere delusion, it would seem almost needless
to suggest. It is often professed under suspicious circumstances by doubtful characters. Nothing
can be more groundless than the persuasion so commonly entertained by persons of this creed,
that to be fully convinced of the truth of the doctrine is a sufficient ground of confidence
that they are therefore of the number of the chosen people. The strongest conviction may be
deceptive. The firmest assurance may be the result of ignorant or fanatical presumption. And
whatever may be the readiness of this class of persons to say, "My mountain standeth firm--I
shall never be moved," it cannot but be feared respecting many of them, that they have yet
to learn the very "first principles of the oracles of God." The remarkable absence of humility
and charity in these "children of special grace" is alone enough to render their Christianity
questionable, exposes the dangerous nature of their delusion, and proves the practical inutility
of their scheme; since, after all, without the evidence of a truly evangelical temper and life,
no inward assurance would satisfy a reflecting mind; and in the possession of such evidence,
no other assurance is needed.

The self-righteousness of the Pharisee is scarcely more to be dreaded than the spiritual pride
of the Calvinist, when it has passed from under the control of holy wisdom. It assumes the
character of selfishness, bigotry, and the lust of intolerant dominion.

The same spirit of exclusiveness and domination, which pervades in general their ecclesiastical
polity, affects their allegiance to the state. Under cover of abolishing episcopacy, the doctrinal
Puritans were the principal authors of that revolution which introduced the Commonwealth after
the fall of the monarchy; and their aim was the exclusive dominion of the saints, that by political
power they might establish their own forms of Church government. Religion was really their
object, and they were not hypocritical in professing it; but to accomplish their spiritual
projects, they considered themselves entitled to secular dominion; and their tyranny in Church
and State was so overbearing, that the nation, after the death of Cromwell, eagerly threw itself
into the arms of the Stuarts, almost without a compact, rather than endure the sanctimonious
intolerance of Calvinistic patriots and republican saints[6].

The same leaven is still at work. The doctrinal Puritans of the present day have the same lordly
consciousness of a right to dominion. They have declared their resolution to "stagger senates,
and smash cabinets" until their points are carried. They have given to the nation a significant
announcement of their claims to power, by their politico-religious synod of Manchester. The
imperial parliament of these realms is, in future, it seems, to make its fiscal arrangements,
and legislate on points of purely political economy, under the dictation of the Calvinistic
divines of the nineteenth century[7]. Doubtless, our future Chancellors of the Exchequer will
be selected from this body of sacred financiers.

While it produces effects so remote from those of true Christianity in the religious professors
of Calvinism, on the mass of ignorant, sordid, unreflecting, and worldly-minded persons, who
are taught these doctrines, its worst influences are seen to operate; and, as the country was
notoriously demoralized at the close of the Cromwellian dictatorship, when Calvinistic divines
had enjoyed a long and signal triumph, so is the present age marked by a degeneracy in the
public morals, which has kept pace with the progress of opinions of similar character and tendency.
The rude multitude is taught that there is no grace but special grace, and this produces recklessness
and indifference, since no efforts will avail if they are not to be partakers of these, to
them, forbidden streams of the river of the water of life. Or, perhaps, this gloomy doctrine
produces a sullen suspicion, vague and undefined, of the rectitude of God, and thus alienates
still more those hearts which are already adverse to the Divine government.

Of all the mischievous extravagances of opinion, none has produced more fatal consequences,
than the notion, that God takes particular delight in selecting the vilest of men for the object
of his electing love; and that the gross sinner is better prepared for the grace of Christ,
than they who have walked in the paths of virtue.

It is a melancholy but instructive fact, that in Calvinistic families, the puritanical order
and discipline which are often highly commendable, have proved insufficient to counteract the
malignant effects of the doctrines inculcated on the minds of the young. Instead of being taught
that grace is given to all, and that all are responsible for its use, they are instructed that
this blessing may perhaps be withholden. And no families have sent forth into the world more
affecting examples of worthless and unprincipled young men, who have brought down the grey
hairs of their excellent but mistaken parents with sorrow to the grave!

If the unguarded preaching of "the doctrines of grace," and the scanty instruction given on
the great duties of practical religion, have contributed to the demoralized state of the people,
let it not be supposed that other causes have been wanting to swell the tide of corruption.
From the Revolution, toleration has been gradually enlarged, until all salutary restraints
have been swept away, and the glorious liberties of our country have degenerated, by a fatal
abuse, into unbridled licentiousness. The press is daily infusing poison into the public mind.
What once would have been punished as profaneness and blasphemy, is no longer noticed by the
gentle guardians of the law, and treason has almost ceased to be a crime. Liberalism has trampled
over law, and the reigning evils have been unhappily aggravated by those whose position in
the state ought to have dictated other conduct than that of making anarchical principles the
road to dominion.

V.--CALVINISM IS NOT THE DOCTRINE OF SCRIPTURE OR OF THE ANGLICAN CHURCH.

The general tenor of the Holy Scriptures is so clearly against it, that it is impossible to
account for the facts or the doctrines of the Bible on supposition of the truth of the Calvinistic
theology: Nor would it be needful to discuss the subject, however briefly, on scriptural grounds,
but for a few particular texts which are cited against the current testimony of the word of
God. It is said that one text, if plain and direct, is evidence enough for the establishment
of any doctrine. This may be a sound canon of interpretation, where the one text admits but
one meaning, and that meaning is not opposed by conflicting evidence, but not otherwise. In
the present instance, there exists, in addition to the opposing stream of Scripture testimony,
the following strong presumption against the Calvinistic view of particular texts. Supposing
the doctrine of Calvinistic fatalism to be correct, no explanation can be given of the general
tenor of Divine revelation, none which can be made to harmonize with that doctrine. The entire
history of providence and redemption, as given in the Bible, proceeds on the principle, not
of fate, but of freedom; and if we are not free, we are reduced to the suspicious and unworthy
conclusion, that the secret and the revealed will of God are at variance with each other; that
we are deceived by a scheme of things designedly arranged to convey false impressions of truth,
and that while God treats us now as though we were accountable beings, He fixes our final destinies
without any regard whatsoever to our imaginary freedom and pretended responsibility.

On the other hand, taking the general tenor of the sacred volume to be the true representation
of the moral economy under which we are placed by the infinite wisdom of God, all the passages
which are cited by Calvinists, as being favourable to their cause, may be so explained, and
that without violence, as to accord with the current testimony of the Scriptures to the freedom
and moral agency of man. A stronger presumptive argument cannot be conceived against the claim
of Calvinism to scriptural authority.

Let it be also distinctly observed, that the cause of Calvinism is not served by those passages
of Scripture which relate to the election of individuals, or of nations, to certain privileges
which do not extend to the absolute enjoyment of eternal life. Of this description is the ninth
of the Romans. The subject of that celebrated chapter is not the election of individuals to
final salvation, but the election of the Jews to the honor of being the visible Church, and
their subsequent rejection through open unbelief. Nor does the allusion contained in it to
the destruction of Pharaoh and his host in the Red sea, yield an argument in favour of Calvinistic
reprobation. The fact that the infatuated monarch was hardened in heart by the leniency which
spared him under so many provocations and insults offered by him to the Almighty God, does
not prove, nor was it designed to prove, that he was the fated victim of an eternal decree,
whether in regard to his secular or spiritual condition.

Nor can Calvinism plead for itself those texts which are supposed to refer to the election
of individuals to final salvation, but which at the same time leave unsettled the important
question at issue; whether that election was absolute and irrespective of character, or whether
it was founded on the foreknowledge of their faith and obedience. Such for example is the language
of St. Paul, 2 Thess. ii. 13, 14. All such passages leave the controversy undetermined, proving
only that the doctrine of election is scriptural, but not fixing the sense in which it is to
be taken, whether absolute or conditional.

The terms election and predestination, with their correlates, are of frequent occurrence in
the New Testament, and with various significations, which are to be explained by the particular
subjects to which they refer. But the only texts which really bear on the Calvinistic controversy,
are those which may seem to represent election as sovereign, arbitrary, and totally irrespective
of the faith and obedience of the elect; such are few indeed. Let us review that which is deemed
by the advocates of Calvinism among their most conclusive evidences. "That election," says
Edwards, "is not from a foresight of works, as depending on the condition of man's will, is
evident by 2 Tim. i. 9. Edwards was not more remarkable for acuteness and subtlety as a reasoner,
than for his lax and indiscriminate citations of Scripture. He appeals to this text with such
confidence, that he deems no analysis to be necessary. The bare citation is enough.

But a brief examination of the passage will make it clear that it yields no support to Calvinism.
That is, the decree which insures the safety of the elect is not founded on God's foreknowledge
of their holiness and of their perseverance in the faith. To show that this doctrine is supported
by the passage under our consideration, it must be proved, that when the Apostle says, "not
according to our works," he means our Christian good works, our faith, our repentance, our
charity, our evangelic obedience to Christ; of this, there is not the shadow of evidence. On
the contrary, the works alluded to are those, whether good or bad, which were done in a state
of heathen or Jewish depravity, at any rate done before believers exercised faith and repentance,
and were called to the privileges of the Christian Church. No other interpretation will hold.

St. Paul states that God "hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling." He then proceeds
to trace this happy condition to its sources. He begins with a negation. The antecedent cause
of our salvation and calling was not our works; we were not treated according to our works;
not after the measure, the proportion, the merit or demerit of our works: these might have
brought punishment, but could never have procured for us blessings so great and undeserved.
The real cause was the purpose of God and his grace given in Christ before the world began.

Here, our works are put in distinct opposition to the purpose and grace of God.

They could not, therefore, be our Christian works, done in a state of salvation and subsequent
to our obeying the holy calling. These are the practical results, the moral effects, of our
holy calling according to the gracious purpose of God. These could never have been done but
for that holy calling. They could not therefore in any sense be the antecedent cause of that
holy calling. In the order both of nature and of time, both the gracious purpose and the holy
calling must have preceded these works. To tell any man of common sense, that they were not
the procuring cause of the grace from whence they were themselves derived, was needless.

To one so intelligent as Timothy, such instruction was worse than superfluous. Works could
not hold the twofold relation of cause and effect to God's grace. Nor can it be supposed that
St. Paul was the author of a solecism so obvious, as that of formally setting in opposition
to the purpose and the grace of God those evangelic works, which were the moral effects of
the influence of that grace and of the execution of that purpose. The works alluded to were
those which might be done before men were partakers of the Christian salvation, or independently
of the dispensation of grace, and according to such works no man could be entitled to the blessings
of eternal redemption.

This important text lends no support to the Calvinist. It cannot be cited in proof, that the
election of God is arbitrary and uninfluenced by his foreknowledge of the faith and obedience
of his chosen people, for the works here intended are not Christian good works done in faith.
Edwards did wisely in not analyzing this text.

The same principle of interpretation is applicable to Titus iii. 5. These works are not those
of the truly regenerate, which being the effects of the grace of Christ, cannot be mistaken
for the meritorious cause of the communication of that grace. It is rather to be taken as a
broad assertion, that the blessings of the Christian covenant, are not the result or the reward
of human deserts; that apart from the redemption of Christ, there are no works of righteousness
by which we can be saved; and that while Christians are made really holy and good, their sanctification
is to be traced to the grace of God in Christ Jesus. In neither passage is there any statement
on which to rest an argument for the arbitrary and unconditional decree of the Calvinist, nor
for depreciating the intrinsic value of those really good works which the Christian performs
in faith. Calvinism has no foundation in the word of God. It is in direct collision with that
sacred authority. St. Paul rests the divine election on the foreknowledge of the Deity, and
let his decision be final. "Whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate, to be conformed
to the image of his Son."

The seventeenth Article of the Church accords with the Scriptures, and its doctrinal statements
are made almost entirely in the language of the sacred writers, and of those eminent divines
of the Reformation who abjured Calvinism and adhered to the Bible. It is drawn up with great
moderation, says nothing of absolute decrees and unconditional election, and it treats the
subject practically. The concluding paragraph relating to "curious and carnal persons" shows
that the venerable compilers of the Article rejected extreme views of this doctrine, since
these only could lead to "a most dangerous downfall." But if the article itself be at all equivocal,
it must be interpreted by the formularies of the Church and by the Scriptures, since no dogma
is to be imputed to this holy branch of Christ's Catholic Church, that is at variance with
the attributes of God, the moral constitution of man, the testimony of the Bible, and the obligations
of practical religion.

If Calvinism be the doctrine of our Church, then are the Catechism, and the Order for the Ministration
of Baptism, the most absurd and delusive compositions by which the minds of men were ever led
astray.

It was not in the nature of things, that Calvinistic predestination should be received as truth,
without producing such a modification of the entire system of divine revelation, as would impress
on it a new and completely different character. Christianity, in its unadulterated simplicity,
is distinguished by the consolatory views it imparts of the benignity and grace of God, and
by the direct and cogent motives it suggests for holiness and righteousness of life. But the
first article of the Calvinistic creed throws a veil of awful and suspicious mystery over the
divine goodness, and represents it "as the sun shorn of his beams." Having determined that
God is not the universal Father, nor "the Saviour of all men," but the projector of a scheme
which predetermines the ruin of the great mass of his creatures, Calvinism models to its own
purpose all those doctrines of Christianity which are in beautiful accordance with the truth
that "God is love." It denies that the atonement of Christ was intended to make satisfaction
for "the sins of the whole world." It announces that the non-elect are laid under an irresistible
necessity of sinning to destruction, and that no spiritual grace is imparted to rescue them
from the dominion of native, incurable, uncontrolled depravity.

The gracious invitations and promises of the Gospel are reduced to unmeaning terms, so far
as the many are concerned. And while Calvinism is denominated by its admirers "the doctrines
of grace," it obliterates from the Scriptures every trace of sincere mercy, and robs the diadem
of heaven of its purest and brightest gem. Calvinism and grace are heterogeneous terms, representing
discordant ideas.

The motives to a holy life, governed by piety and adorned with virtue, must be impaired by
the views here given of the Deity. No human mind can be habituated to the contemplation of
the divine conduct, as it is seen distorted by the predestinarian theology, and retain its
just sentiments of what is right, what is just, what is honourable, what is lovely in goodness.
The man who imitates the God of the Calvinist, that phantasm of a morbid or dreaming imagination,
cannot fail to have his moral sentiments corrupted, and to become deceptive, shuffling, treacherous,
and eventually insensible to the misery of others.

The Calvinistic doctrines of regeneration and perseverance are not calculated to rectify these
evils. These are made to harmonize with the fatalism which bears all men along with irresistible
energy, the reprobate to perdition, the redeemed to blessedness. The new birth is described
as a sudden transformation of our spiritual nature, effected by sovereign grace, unconnected
with the preceding states of the mind, whether good or evil, and attended with the communication
of spiritual life which can never afterwards be forfeited or lost. No sins, however enormous,
can endanger the elect, although they may for a time cloud their evidences. The effects produced
by this doctrine on the mind of that individual who believes himself to be thus specially distinguished,
must be of a very dangerous kind, unless counteracted as it frequently is by other principles,
or restrained by the genuine spirit of Christianity operating with antagonist energy.

It is this necessary corruption of the great truths of the Gospel that renders Calvinism an
object of distrust and alarm. If it was a mere speculation, which was intended, in the calm
spirit of Christian philosophy, to solve a problem in theology or morals, leaving untouched
the essential character of revealed religion, it might pass without rebuke. But it weakens
the moral sense, and it leads to the subversion of all that is consolatory in our prospects
of the final destinies of the human race, leaving us no security for the salvation even of
the supposed elect; for what hope can repose with confidence on the supreme Arbiter of events,
when He is believed to be the author of a religion which represents Him as acting without any
intelligible moral motive, destroying the majority of the human race for offences not their
own, and saving the remnant without regard to their Christian virtues!

It is remarkable that, while in modern times many disavow their belief in those views of the
divine decrees which form the basis of the Calvinistic creed, and which have occasioned this
corruption of Christian truth, they still hold to these corruptions, and write and preach on
the implied principle that the grace of God is limited by decree to those whom they specially
designate his children. They have been driven from the foundation, and still they cleave to
the superstructure. They assume the designation of moderate Calvinists, not perceiving that
the doctrines of particular redemption, and special grace, and exclusive assumption of a filial
relation to God, are untenable when absolute predestination is exploded. Calvinism, after all,
is their creed, since the system to which they adhere cannot rest on any other foundation.

It is to be inferred, therefore, that for persons of a certain temperament this doctrine has
charms so powerful as to negative the calm dictates of the judgment, and practically to render
the mind insensible to the force of truth.

And what are its recommendations to those who embrace it?

1. Calvinism is both exciting and sedative, exciting to the imagination, and sedative to the
conscience. Thus it is accommodated to two of the leading principles of human nature, the love
of the awful, the terrific, the deeply tragic, and the natural anxiety which all men feel,
to be rid of the consciousness of guilt and of personal danger. Nothing can exceed the tremendous
scenes opened to the imagination by that system of theology, which dooms to perdition the great
mass of human beings, who are permitted by their Creator to sport or suffer upon earth through
a few rapid revolutions of time, and are then swept away for ever into an abyss of ruin; while,
with confounding and dreadful mystery, the Author of their being is represented as the great
agent in this work of appalling desolation. To redeem his character for mercy, He rescues an
elect few, but leaves the devoted multitude without pity and without hope, to everlasting torment.
Whether we contemplate this fearful character of the Deity, or endeavour to realize the scenes
which await the departure of lost souls, or attempt in imagination to identify ourselves with
the happy spirits of the redeemed, who have escaped, they know not why, the general destruction
of all that is dear to man, we must be sensible that all the ordinary conceptions of the human
mind are comparatively powerless for pity, or terror, or intense expectation of what is to come.

At the same time its tendency, excepting in the case of a few sensitive and tender spirits,
is to deaden the consciousness of guilt, to still the remonstrances of the self-convicted mind,
and to enable men of no religion and of no morals to hear these doctrines proclaimed from the
pulpit without any salutary disquietude of heart. They do not really believe them, or they
find in them an apology for their corruption. It has sometimes been said, by way of severe
reflection, of a moral sermon, that it could not be the Gospel, for that a Socinian might have
heard it without offence. The objection is very absurd; but what then ought to be the inference
drawn by the same persons, respecting the character of doctrines which, although in speculation
they are fearful and appalling to the utmost, tend in reality to stupify the moral sense, and
can be listened to by the profane and the profligate with complacency or apathy? While it explains
their popularity, it is a presumption against their truth.

2. This doctrine has the recommendation of freeing those who hold it from anxiety about the
practical part of religion, by substituting a system of belief purely speculative. When examined
in all its bearings, it may be seen to consist of faith and assurance: faith in the divine
decrees; assurance of being numbered with the elect. Get clear views of the divine sovereignty,
believe that Christ died for you in particular, construe the persuasion of your safety into
an especial witness of the Holy Spirit; doubt nothing, fear nothing; look entirely out of yourselves;
and remember that there is a finished salvation for the elect; and all is well! This is Calvinism.
And this is speculation. If repentance, self-government, virtue, and the duties of Christian
piety and obedience are inculcated, these must be enforced on grounds not supplied by the predestinarian
theology, and irreconcileable with that scheme of doctrine. Doubtless, the best writers of
this school insist on holiness of temper, and sanctity of life, and enforce these by motives
derived from the moral perfections of God, the turpitude of sin, and the necessity of a renewed
heart as being essential to religion here and happiness hereafter. But all these considerations
are totally independent of the speculations of the fatalist, and are rendered powerless as
incentives to action exactly in proportion to the practical influence of these speculations
on the mind and the heart.

Let the professor of Christianity give up his thoughts to eternal decrees, and special grace,
and the soothing dream of irrevocable promises sealed to the heart by the clear witness of
the Spirit, and the moral conflict with sin and temptation will languish with the salutary
fear of danger. This is suited to the depraved indolence of man. All false systems of religion
have in view the indulgence of this perilous but seductive peace. Any thing is acceptable to
corrupt human nature that supplies a substitute for the duties of moral righteousness and a
sublime virtue, lulling the conscience into a state of artificial repose. And to produce this
effect, no scheme of religious belief, that ever emanated from the perverse ingenuity of the
human mind, was ever so perfectly contrived as the Calvinistic notion of predestinating grace.

3. Of the multitudes of truly religious persons, who embrace this doctrine or give their passive
assent to it, but few are competent to detect its fallacies, or to trace its evil consequences.

They are to be found chiefly among the lower ranks of life, or the uneducated portions of the
middle and the higher classes. If there are any whose minds have been disciplined by sound
instruction, and expanded by liberal acquirements, they are, for the most part, the children
of Calvinistic families, who, having been taught to reverence these opinions in their childhood,
have not had energy of mind to rise above their early impressions. That multitudes of persons
piously disposed, but without the requisite knowledge, or intellectual culture, should be influenced
by the arguments of men skilful in dialectics, and zealous to make proselytes, cannot be deemed
matter of wonderment. Especially let it be noticed, that these teachers and preachers know
well how to appeal to ignorant timidity and to sincere but unguarded piety.

They are told, that to reject these doctrines shows "a heart secretly disaffected to the government
of God," and daring to oppose presumption and ignorance to the wisdom of the Eternal. As if
it were not the fact, that Calvinism has been viewed with abhorrence by men of the humblest
and the purest piety, by men of seraphic minds and of the sublimest intellect.

They are also instructed to believe, that the grace of the Redeemer is magnified by degrading
human nature to the utmost, and making the redeemed passive recipients of predestinated and
exclusive grace. But they do not perceive that Calvinism destroys all ideas of grace, by making
God the author of the misery which He affects to pity, and by tracing the divine conduct to
mere motiveless caprice, to blind and arbitrary choice or rejection.

These distinctions are lost upon the superficial minds of the multitude. And when they are
told that Calvinism honours the sovereignty of God, and exalts the grace of Christ, their religious
and holy feelings are enlisted in a cause which little deserves these high and evangelic eulogies.
While the love of God in Christ, to themselves in particular, is made the prevailing topic,
the gloomy and suspicious parts of the system are kept in the back ground, or positively denied.

If there be truth in the preceding remarks, the degree of popularity which attaches to this
view of religion, far from yielding a presumptive argument in its favour, is, at least, a reason
for regarding it with suspicion. It has not the recommendation of being the faith of the most
numerous portion of the wise, of the holy, of the virtuous. It appeals to the weaknesses rather
than to the nobler principles of human nature. It can never be the sincere and cherished belief
of an enlightened, community.

The advocates of this creed appear to be aware of this, and therefore supply their want of
conclusive argument by fulminations intended to effect by fear, what more honourable means
could not accomplish.

They not only contend for the truth of their doctrine, they make the belief of it essential
to salvation. None are elect who do not receive their views of election. All others are reprobate.
"Shall I tell you," says one of their most eminent men, "some of the ends that may be answered
by preaching this doctrine? One important end is, to detect hearts which are unwilling that
God should reign; to lay open those smooth, selfish spirits, which, while they cry Hosannah,
are hostile to the dominion of Jehovah. The more fully God and the system of his government
are brought out to view, the more clearly are the secrets of all hearts revealed." Men, who
fancy themselves impelled by a "special influence" to receive this creed, may consistently
pronounce judgment on those who reject it. The absurdity in one case, is not greater than in
the other. But their attempts at intimidation will have no other effect with persons of dispassionate
reflection, than to render more repulsive those errors which foster insolent conceit in vulgar
minds, and encourage those who appear to have but a superficial knowledge of themselves to
pass sentence of condemnation on the hearts of others.

Formally to disclaim a charge so gross and misapplied as that of "hostility to the dominion
of Jehovah," would be to treat it with more respect than it deserves. But it may not be improper
to remark, that the charge proceeds with the worst possible grace from the vindicators of a
creed which obliterates from the divine government every trace of wisdom, of rectitude, of
goodness, and so represents the Ruler of the word, as to make Him an object of detestation
and terror to his creatures.

APPENDIX.

ADDITIONAL REMARKS ON MR. NOEL'S TRACT ON "THE UNITY OF THE CHURCH."

The writer of these pages has no personal knowledge of the author of the tract, of whom he
has only heard by report, that he is a zealous minister and popular preacher. His writings
indicate natural suavity of temper. Having therefore no feeling of personal disrespect, he
deems no apology to be necessary for the freedom of his strictures on a work which challenges
attention and defies contradiction.

Mr. Noel has openly and dogmatically set forth a theory of the visible Church and her fellowship,
not only hostile to the Church of England and fraught with absurdity, but propounded under
the alluring guise of Christian charity; a charity which has won for him the applause of the
professors of modern liberalism, because, on a cursory glance, it appears to embrace all sects
and denominations of Christians. It is proper, therefore, to set the matter in a true light,
by showing that this liberality of sentiment is more specious than real; that Mr. Noel is throwing
out false colours, and that while, in no measured terms, he condemns the supposed want of brotherly-kindness
in the members of the Church of England, his own apparent liberality is resolvable into nothing
else than Calvinistic exclusiveness and intolerance.

Liberality is the order, the fashion, the idol of the day. In many it takes the form of infidel
indifference, regarding as equally true, or equally false, every creed that is called Christian.

The charity of our holy and Apostolical Church is not thus lax and indiscriminate. It rests
not upon scepticism, but upon sound and definable principles. It does not proceed on the assumption
that all creeds are equally good, but that men of all creeds have a political right to follow
the dictates of conscience, whether enlightened or erroneous, in matters purely spiritual,
and that they are responsible only to God for their religious faith and worship; indulging,
at the same time, a charitable persuasion of the sincerity and Christian goodness of multitudes
who are believed to be labouring under mistaken views of truth. This is true Christian charity,
which tolerates error, hopes well of misinformed but sincere piety, breathes no malignant feelings,
indulges in no haughtiness of conscious superiority; but, after all, holds firmly to its own
persuasion of what is true and right, without the smallest approach to a compromise of principles
even with honest and well-meaning error. This is the charity of the sound English churchman,
and this charity lies at the foundation of the religious liberties of the British empire.

As churchmen we contemplate with reverence, our protestant, episcopal, and apostolical communion.
And we contend for the right of the Church to demand from her own ministers faith in her doctrines,
and to model her own worship, and adjust her own ceremonies according to her own holy discretion.
But we compel no man to come in. We love and cherish the chartered and constitutional liberties
of our country; and while we sympathize not with the errors which are tolerated, we rejoice
in the freedom, the just and evangelic freedom, which leaves every man, without control or
interference, to settle all points of religious duty with his conscience and his God. We do
not feel bound to attempt what would be impracticable, to construct a church which should suit
the caprices of all, and whose flexible creed, like the vane which surmounts the steeple, should
shift with "every wind of doctrine;" but we allow the discontented to depart without molestation,
and we honour their conscientious scruples, while we regret and condemn their errors.

With charity so large yet discriminating, founded on principles which approve themselves to
the judgment and the heart, we solemnly protest against every charge of intolerance and bigotry
that is brought, by friend or foe, against our National Church.

But this does not satisfy Mr. Noel, who proposes, what appears at first sight, a charity still
more generous and comprehensive. The Anti-paedobaptist and the Presbyterian, with all their
germane varieties, are not only to be treated with forbearance and regarded with charity, but
are all to form one fellowship, united and co -operating in the great cause of their common
Christianity. Take the following passage. "And these" Baptism and Church government, "are two
of the most important points which separate Christians. Should they separate them? As well
might the brothers of a family be separated by the most trifling difference on some question
of taste or literature. . . . . . Episcopalians and Presbyterians, Baptists and Paedobaptists,
with all others, who differ on obscure and undecided points, ought, if they have one Lord,
one faith, one baptism, one God, and one hope, under the influence of one Spirit, who sanctifies
them all, to be one in profession, in action, and in heart." This passage, which is in the
spirit of the entire tract, is open to grave animadversion.

1. The points mentioned as being "most trifling differences," are regarded by all theologians
of any reputation as questions of great moment, although not equally so with those which immediately
touch our salvation. Mr. Noel is altogether original in regarding either the construction that
is to be put on the sacrament of baptism, or the degree of importance to be attached to the
episcopal office, as matters "most trifling."

2. The Baptists and Presbyterians, who look on these points with other feelings than those
of Mr. Noel, have considered them of sufficient moment to justify their separation from the
communion of our Church. That separation is their own "act and deed." And to charge the Church,
on this account, with bigotry, intolerance, and want of charity, proves either consummate ignorance
of ecclesiastical history, or deliberate injustice to serve a party. Nevertheless, the entire
argument of the tract, proceeds on the assumption that the Church is the guilty and impenitent
party.

3. Under these circumstances, it is impossible that there should be but "one profession," unless
one of the differing parties can deny its own faith, and profess what it does not believe.
The Catholic Church of England cannot, and will not, be guilty of that turpitude. The members
of Mr. Noel's Church have declared, by their voluntary separation, their determination to profess
their own principles.

4. That which is most reprehensible in this charitable project of hailing all sects as brethren
is, that it is, after all, deceptive and hollow. Mr. Noel does not intend a promiscuous fellowship
with various denominations. His charity is extended to those, and to those exclusively, who,
within these several communions, hold "the doctrines of grace." All others he denounces as
not being children of God. That is, his union includes all those who think with himself; Calvinists
of every persuasion, and not a soul besides! These are his "one body," and this one body is
"the church." How beautiful, how noble, how godlike is the charity of the Church of England,
which exists in unison with the love of truth, but embraces with Christian affection even those
who have quitted her fellowship, contrasted with the drivelling and sectarian partialities
of the Calvinist who pronounces every man who differs from himself to be no child of God! The
charity of Mr. Noel resolves itself into Calvinistic exclusiveness and intolerance.

If in these remarks there is any apparent severity, they are not to be applied to the author,
but to the principles of his work. Calvinism obscures the finest intellect, and gives a false
direction to the most humane and generous feelings which can impart graceful dignity to the
Christian character.

By the same Author.

I.

DISCOURSES on some important Theological Subjects, Doctrinal and Practical. 7s.

II.

ECCLESIASTICAL ESTABLISHMENTS not inconsistent with CHRISTIANITY. Part I. 2s. 6d. Part II. 2s.

III.

The CONSOLATIONS of CHRISTIANITY, in four Discourses. 3s. 6d.

IV.

On BAPTISMAL REGENERATION. 3s. 6d.

Footnotes

[1] Dr. Griffin in his "Lectures on Important Doctrines," broadly charges the rejectors of
Calvinism with embracing another Gospel, and with being on the high road to infidelity. "And
when they have gone this length," he says, "in frittering away man's dependence on grace, they
are just prepared to place him completely on his own works, to deny justification by faith,
and of course, the proper influence of the atonement; short of this these systems never stop:
and when they have gone thus far, there is but one step to a denial of the divinity of Christ
and the infinite demerit of sin. The next step is universalism, and the next infidelity." Every
intelligent reader will know how to appreciate this senseless dogmatism. The infidel might
with equal propriety charge the professors of Scriptural Christianity with being on the high
road to Calvinism, and prepared, by their faith in the corruption of human nature, and the
atonement of Christ, for the most extreme views of the Divine decrees. Yet these bold and baseless
assertions have their weight with those for whom they are intended, and many weak but good
persons are held in passive bondage to these teachers and their creed, through the holy fear
of moving a step towards infidelity. On the other hand, we might retort the charge. Calvinism
has made more infidels than any other corruption of Christianity, excepting Popery. But we
suggest this only in the way of fair retaliation.

The rejectors of Calvinism do not reject "the doctrines of grace," but the corruptions by which
they have been dishonoured. They maintain, that on the absolute predestinarian scheme, there
is no room for grace, such as the Gospel exhibits to the sinful and the lost; and that their
own views are not only more accordant with the justice, but with the unmerited and infinite
mercy of God. They ascribe all true holiness to the Divine Spirit.

[2] Dr. Coplestone, now the Bishop of Llandaff, denies that the foreknowledge of an event proves
the event to be necessary. "We may be unable to conceive how a thing not necessary in its nature
can be foreknown; for our foreknowledge is in general limited by that circumstance, and is
more or less perfect in proportion to the fixed or necessary nature of the things we contemplate,
with which nature we become acquainted by experience, and are thus able to anticipate a great
variety of events: but to subject the knowledge of God to any such limitation is surely absurd
and unphilosophical, as well as impious; and, therefore, to mix up the idea of God's foreknowledge
with any quality in the nature of the things foreknown, is even less excusable than to be guilty
of that confusion when speaking of ourselves."

But, with due deference to his lordship, this does not contradict the statement in the text,
that we are ignorant of any principle on which such prescience can be explained. Assuming,
indeed, that any events are contingent, that human actions proceed from freedom, and not from
necessity, we cannot deny that they come within the range of infinite knowledge.

But the philosophical necessarian does not grant this postulate. He assumes the existence of
an infinite mind, to whose knowledge all events are open, and thence infers the necessity of
these events. He pleads that omniscience and contingency are incongruous ideas, and, on the
ground of pure metaphysics, it would be difficult to refute him. But we demolish his theory
by an appeal to facts. We oppose the moral constitution and history of man, to the plausible
speculations of philosophy. In other words, the mere metaphysician is a fatalist; and his position,
in the present state of our intellectual philosophy, can be successfully attacked only by an
appeal to facts and consciousness, and by moral argument. That sound metaphysics and just moral
reasoning cannot really be at variance is certain, since there cannot exist contradictory truths.
Our metaphysics therefore are wrong, or there must be an unknown third principle, by which
they are to be reconciled with our moral reasonings. But until we can detect the fallacies
of the metaphysician, or supply the connecting link which is now wanting, we must rest in the
unsatisfactory conclusion that abstract philosophy is with the necessarian, and that liberty
and its ennobling consequences, moral agency, and moral responsibility, rest on the solitary
basis of moral argument.

[3] On the "special teaching" claimed, in connexion with "special grace," by the most popular
writers of the Calvinistic school, the reader may find some just and forcible remarks in Essays
by W. and T. Ludlam. Their fearless exposure of the erroneous statements given by Milner, Robinson,
Newton, Harvey, and others, more particularly on the subject of divine influence, awakened
the indignation of a party whose pretensions, when tested by reason and revelation, were proved
to be groundless. Without attempting an indiscriminate defence of their opinions or their arguments,
we may recommend these essays as being eminently worthy of attention in the present day, when
two distinct but zealous parties are aiming to establish exclusive doctrines, by discountenancing
the legitimate use of human reason in religious inquiries--one resting on tradition, the other
on individual inspiration; neither of them seeming to remember, that tradition may be pleaded
for and against the same dogmata, and that the private persuasions of one good man may be opposite
to those of another, who has, with equal earnestness and humility, prayed to be directed into
the knowledge of saving truth. The man of independent mind will find in these essays, much
to admire in their elucidation of truth and detection of error, but more in their dauntless
defiance of those who represent the Bible as a "sealed book" to all who are not visited with
a special faculty for discerning its mystic characters and hidden sense. In that case, the
Scriptures are a revelation only to the elect, who, to satisfy themselves and the world, that
their interpretation is the only sound one, ought to produce miracles as proof of their own
inspiration, not less unequivocal than those which vindicated the authority and infallibility
of the Apostles. Such opinions, although held by religious men, are dishonourable to the Scriptures,
and needlessly degrading to the human mind.

[4] "There can be no approaches towards regeneration in the antecedent temper of the heart.
The moment before the change, the sinner is as far from sanctification, as darkness is from
light, as death is from life, as sin is from holiness."

"Regeneration is an instantaneous change, from exclusive attachment to the creature, from supreme
selfishness, from enmity against God, to universal love, which fixes the heart supremely on
Him; and there is no previous abatement of the enmity, or approximation towards a right temper;
the heart being at one moment in full possession of its native selfishness and opposition,
at the next moment in possession of a principle of supreme love to God; acquiring thus, in
an instant, a temper which it never possessed before."--Lectures on Important Doctrines by
Dr. Griffin.

How extravagant in theory, how false in fact! The doctrine of the Anglican Church on this;
and all similar points, never appears so wise, and sound, and scriptural, as when contrasted
with the speculative systems of men, who, to give harmony and consistency to their notions,
close their eyes to the real world of man, and create for themselves an ideal universe, peopled
by another order of beings, and governed by a power unknown but to the dreamers themselves.

[5] The Presbyterian Church of Scotland is both Calvinistic and National. But this fact does
not militate against the argument of this section; that Calvinism is opposed to the constitution
and purposes of a visible Church. Her creed and her discipline are at variance. Her ministers
are required to believe in the Westminster Confession. And the great body of her people are
said to be attached to that system of doctrine. But her more educated classes reject it, and
the Scottish Church is a divided house.

[6] The prominent part taken by the doctrinal Puritans, in the revolutionary movements which
brought Charles I. to the block, is proved by the concurrent testimony of the writers of those
times. It is amply illustrated and confirmed by Mr. Nichols in his "Calvinism and Arminianism
Compared."

The "Memoirs of Colonel Hutchinson," by his widow Lucy, is not only a work of great general
interest, beautifully composed, and combining with the life of an eminent person vivid sketches
of the times; but it illustrates the subject discussed in the text. Colonel Hutchinson was
a doctrinal Puritan, and one of the regicides. In himself we behold all the elements of a great
and noble character, devout, humane, scrupulously conscientious, and of heroic courage; every
quality that might adorn the gentleman, the patriot, the Christian. But his extreme principles
induced a mistaken sense of duty, which embittered his own days, and added to the calamities
of his country; after having been spared at the restoration, his gloomy reserve and supposed
readiness to act again the part of a rebel, if opportunity should occur, led to his imprisonment
in Sandown Castle, where he died more ignobly than if he had been brought to the block. It
would have been more to the honour of the king, if he had at first doomed him to a public execution,
the proper death of a regicide, or had left him afterwards unmolested; but the second Charles
was not less mean and malignant than his sire was unfortunate. Of the character of the humbler
class of the doctrinal Puritans, the following hints are incidentally given in this work.

The name of Roundhead "was very ill applied to Mr, Hutchinson, who, having naturally a very
fine thick sett head of hair, kept it clean and handsome, so that it was a greate ornament
to him, although the godly of those dayes, when he embrac'd their party, would not allow him
to be religious, because his hayre was not in their cutte, nor his words in their phraze, nor
such little formalities altogether fitted to their humour; who were, many of them, so weake
as to esteeme rather for such insignificant circumstances, then for solid wisdom, piety, and
courage, which brought reall ayd and honor to their party; but as Mr. Hutchinson chose, not
them, but the God they serv'd, and the truth and righteousness they defended, so did not their
weaknesses, censures, ingratitude, and discouraging behaviour, with which he was abundantly
exercised all his life, make him forsake them in any thing wherein they adher'd to just and
honourable principles and practizes; but when they apostatized from these, none cast them off
with greater indignation, how shining soever the profession were that gilt, not a temple of
living grace, but a tomb which only held the carkase of religion." In other words, like other
partisans, whose principles have degenerated into the spirit of faction, he overlooked the
baseness of ingratitude, and worse immoralities, in his associates, so long as they maintained
the just and honourable character of traitors and rebels.

[7] The Manchester Synod, at which were present 620 ministers of various denominations, was
held in the year 1841, for the purpose of discussing the corn laws, with a view to their abolition.
The professed object was the relief of the poor by procuring cheap bread; the real object was
the depression of the landed aristocracy, and, through them, of the Clergy of the National
Church, whose tithes are regulated by the average value of corn. Had those gentlemen been sincere
in their lamentations for the manufacturing poor, they would have long ago agitated the country
for the abolition of the Factory System, and the rescue of its miserable victims from oppression
and famine. That system must be strengthened by the abolition of the corn laws, which would
only aggrandize the great manufacturers, and plunge the working people into deeper misery,
by throwing the agricultural poor out of employment, and driving them to the towns and cities
for occupation, thus glutting the market with superfluous labour. Looking at some of those
individuals who took a leading part in the Synod, men of reputed truth and probity in their
customary habits, their disingenuousness on this occasion supplies a striking proof of the
power of faction to impair the moral sense, especially when originating in hatred of the Church.
The great body of this Synod were ministers of Calvinistic Churches. The "dissenting interest"
has degraded itself by assuming the character of a political faction.

