The marriage which was thus accomplished was regarded with unmodified pleasure by the family
of the bride, and with almost equal satisfaction by the French king. In spite of the public
rejoicings in both countries with which it was accompanied, it can not be said to have been
equally acceptable to the majority of the people of either nation. There was still a strong
anti-French party at Vienna,[1] and (a circumstance of far greater influence on the fortunes
of the young couple) there was a strong anti-Austrian party in France, which was not without
its supporters even in the king's palace. That the marriage should have been so earnestly desired
at the imperial court is a strange instance of the extent to which political motives overpowered
every other consideration in the mind of the great Empress-queen, for she was not ignorant
of the real character of the French court, of the degree in which it was divided by factions,
of the base and unworthy intrigues which were its sole business, and of the sagacity and address
which were requisite for any one who would steer his way with safety and honor through its
complicated mazes.

Judgment and prudence were not the qualities most naturally to be expected in a young princess
not yet fifteen years old. The best prospect which Marie Antoinette had of surmounting the
numerous and varied difficulties which beset her lay in the affection which she speedily conceived
for her husband, and in the sincerity, we can hardly say warmth, with which he returned her
love. Maria Teresa had bespoken his tenderness for her in a letter which she wrote to him on
the day on which her daughter left Vienna, and which has often been quoted as a composition
worthy of her alike as a mother and as a Christian sovereign; and as admirably calculated to
impress the heart of her new son-in-law by claiming his attachment for his bride, on the ground
of the pains which she had taken to make her worthy of her fortune.

"Your bride, my dear dauphin, has just left me. I do hope that she will cause your happiness.
I have brought her up with the design that she should do so, because I have for some time forseen
that she would share your destiny.

"I have inspired her with an eager desire to do her duty to you, with a tender attachment to
your person, with a resolution to be attentive to think and do every thing which may please
you. I have also been most careful to enjoin her a tender devotion toward the Master of all
Sovereigns, being thoroughly persuaded that we are but badly providing for the welfare of the
nations which are intrusted to us when we fail in our duty to Him who breaks sceptres and overthrows
thrones according to his pleasure.

"I say, then, to you, my dear dauphin, as I say to my daughter: 'Cultivate your duties toward
God. Seek to cause the happiness of the people over whom you will reign (it will be too soon,
come when it may). Love the king, your grandfather; be humane like him; be always accessible
to the unfortunate. If you behave in this manner, it is impossible that happiness can fail
to be your lot.' My daughter will love you, I am certain, because I know her. But the more
that I answer to you for her affection, and for her anxiety to please you, the more earnestly
do I entreat you to vow to her the most sincere attachment.

"Farewell, my dear dauphin. May you be happy. I am bathed in tears.[2]"

The dauphin did not falsify the hopes thus expressed by the Empress-queen. But his was not
the character to afford his wife either the advice or support which she needed, while, strange
to say, he was the only member of the royal family to whom she could look for either. The king
was not only utterly worthless and shameless, but weak and irresolute in the most ordinary
matters. Even when in the flower and vigor of his age, he had never been able to summon courage
to give verbal orders or reproofs to his own children,[3] but had intimated his pleasure or
displeasure by letters. He had been gradually falling lower and lower, both in his own vices
and in the estimation of the world; and was now, still more than when Lord Chesterfield first
drew his picture,[4] both hated and despised. The dauphin's brothers, for such mere boys, were
singularly selfish and unamiable; and the only female relations of her husband, his aunts,
to whom, as such, it would have been natural that a young foreigner should look for friendship
and advice, were not only narrow-minded, intriguing, and malicious, but were predisposed to
regard her with jealousy as likely to interfere with the influence which they had hoped to
exert over their nephew when he should become their sovereign.

Marie Antoinette had, therefore, difficulties and enemies to contend with from the very first
commencement of her residence in France. And many even of her own virtues were unfavorable
to her chances of happiness, calculated as they were to lay her at the mercy of her ill-wishers,
and to deprive her of some of the defenses which might have been found in a different temperament.
Full of health and spirits, she was naturally eager in the pursuit of enjoyment, and anxious
to please every one, from feeling nothing but kindness toward every one; she was frank, open,
and sincere; and, being perfectly guileless herself, she was, as through her whole life she
continued to be, entirely unsuspicious of unfriendliness, much more of treachery in others.
Her affability and condescension combined with this trustful disposition to make her too often
the tool of designing and grasping courtiers, who sought to gain their own ends at her expense,
and who presumed on her good-nature and inexperience to make requests which, as they well knew,
should never have been made, but which they also reckoned that she would be unwilling to refuse.

But lest this general amiability and desire to give pleasure to those around her might seem
to impart a prevailing tinge of weakness to her character, it is fair to add that she united
to these softer feelings, robuster virtues calculated to deserve and to win universal admiration;
though some of them, never having yet been called forth by circumstances, were for a long time
unsuspected by the world at large. She had pride-- pride of birth, pride of rank--though never
did that feeling show itself more nobly or more beneficially. It never led her to think herself
above the very meanest of her subjects. It never made her indifferent to the interests, to
the joys or sorrows, of a single individual. The idea with which it inspired her was, that
a princess of her race was never to commit an unworthy act, was never to fail in purity of
virtue, in truth, in courage; that she was to be careful to set an example of these virtues
to those who would naturally look up to her; and that she herself was to keep constantly in
her mind the example of her illustrious mother, and never, by act, or word, or thought, to
discredit her mother's name. And as she thus regarded courage as her birthright, so she possessed
it in abundance and in variety. She had courage to plan, and courage to act; courage to resolve,
and courage to adhere to the resolution once deliberately formed; and, above all, courage to
endure and to suffer, and, in the very extremity of misery, to animate and support others less
royally endowed.

Such, then, as she was, with both her manifest and her latent excellencies, as well as with
those more mixed qualities which had some defects mingled with their sweetness, Marie Antoinette,
at the age of fourteen years and a half, was thrown into a world wholly new to her, to guide
herself so far by her own discretion that there was no one who had both judgment and authority
to control her in her line of conduct or in any single action. She had, indeed, an adviser
whom her mother had provided for her, though without allowing her to suspect the nature or
full extent of the duties which she had imposed upon him. Maria Teresa had been in some respects
a strict mother, one whom her children in general feared almost as much as they loved her;
and the rigorous superintendence on some points of conduct which she had exercised over Marie
Antoinette while at home, she was not inclined wholly to resign, even after she had made her
apparently independent. At the moment of her departure from Vienna, she gave her a letter of
advice which she entreated her to read over every month, and in which the most affectionate
and judicious counsel is more than once couched in a tone of very authoritative command; the
whole letter showing not only the most experienced wisdom and the most affectionate interest
in her daughter's happiness, but likewise a thorough insight into her character, so precisely
are some of the errors against which the letter most emphatically warns her those into which
she most frequently fell. And she appointed a statesman in whom she deservedly placed great
confidence, the Count de Mercy-Argenteau, her embassador to the court at Versailles, with the
express design that he should always be at hand to afford the dauphiness his advice in all
the difficulties which she could not avoid foreseeing for her; and who should also keep the
Empress-queen herself fully informed of every particular of her conduct, and of every transaction
by which she was in any way affected. This part of his commission was wholly unsuspected by
the young princess; but the count discharged such portions of the delicate duty thus imposed
upon him with rare discretion, contriving in its performance to combine the strictest fidelity
to his imperial mistress with the most entire devotion to the interests of his pupil, and to
preserve the unqualified regard and esteem of both mother and daughter to the end of their
lives. Toward the latter, as dauphiness, and even as queen, he stood for some years in a position
very similar to that which Baron Stockmar fills in the history of the late Prince Consort of
England, being, however, more frequent in his admonitions, and occasionally more severe in
his reproofs, as the youth and inexperience of Marie Antoinette not unnaturally led her into
greater mistakes than the scrupulous conscientiousness and almost premature prudence of the
prince consort ever suffered him to commit; and his diligent reports to the Empress-queen,
amounting at times to a diary of the proceedings of the French court, have a lasting and inestimable
value, since they furnish us with so trustworthy a record of the whole life of Marie Antoinette
for the first ten years of her residence in France,[5] of her actions, her language, and her
very thoughts (for she ever scorned to give a reason or to make an excuse which was not absolutely
and strictly true), that there is perhaps no person of historical importance whose conduct
in every transaction of gravity or interest is more minutely known, or whose character there
are fuller materials for appreciating.

