After this the Third Estate demanded the convocation of a general assembly every ten years,
a more just distribution of taxes, equality of all before the law, the suppression of interior
custom-houses, the abolition of sundry sinecures held by nobles, the forbidding to leading
nobles of unauthorized levies of soldiery, some stipulations regarding the working clergy and
the non-residence of bishops; and in the midst of all these demands, as a golden grain amid
husks, they placed a demand for the emancipation of the serfs.

But these demands were sneered at. The idea of the natural equality in rights of all men,--the
idea of the personal worth of every man,--the idea that rough-clad workers have prerogatives
which can be whipped out by no smooth-clad idlers,--these ideas were as far beyond serf-owners
of those days as they are beyond slave-owners of these days. Nothing was done. Augustin Thierry
is authority for the statement that the clergy were willing to yield something. The nobles
would yield nothing. The different orders quarrelled until one March morning in 1615, when,
on going to their hall, they were barred out and told that the workmen were fitting the place
for a Court ball. And so the deputies separated,--to all appearance no new work done, no new
ideas enforced, no strong men set loose.

So it was in seeming,--so it was not in reality. Something had been done. That assembly planted
ideas in the French mind which struck more and more deeply, and spread more and more widely,
until, after a century and a half, the Third Estate met again and refused to present petitions
kneeling,--and when king and nobles put on their hats, the commons put on theirs,--and when
that old brilliant stroke was again made, and the hall was closed and filled with busy carpenters
and upholsterers, the deputies of the people swore that great tennis-court oath which blasted
French tyranny.

But something great was done immediately; to that suffering nation a great man was revealed.
For, when the clergy pressed their requests, they chose as their orator a young man only twenty-nine
years of age, the Bishop of Lucon, ARMAND JEAN DU PLESSIS DE RICHELIEU.

He spoke well. His thoughts were clear, his words pointed, his bearing firm. He had been bred
a soldier, and so had strengthened his will; afterwards he had been made a scholar, and so
had strengthened his mind. He grappled with the problems given him in that stormy assembly
with such force that he seemed about to do something; but just then came that day of the Court
ball, and Richelieu turned away like the rest.

But men had seen him and heard him. Forget him they could not. From that tremendous farce,
then, France had gained directly one thing at least, and that was a sight at Richelieu.

The year after the States-General wore away in the old vile fashion. Condé revolted again,
and this time he managed to scare the Protestants into revolt with him. The daring of the nobles
was greater than ever. They even attacked the young King's train as he journeyed to Bordeaux,
and another compromise had to be wearily built in the Treaty of Loudun. By this Condé was again
bought off,--but this time only by a bribe of a million and a half of livres. The other nobles
were also paid enormously, and, on making a reckoning, it was found that this compromise had
cost the King four millions, and the country twenty millions. The nation had also to give into
the hands of the nobles some of its richest cities and strongest fortresses.

Immediately after this compromise, Condé returned to Paris, loud, strong, jubilant, defiant,
bearing himself like a king. Soon he and his revolted again; but just at that moment Concini
happened to remember Richelieu. The young bishop was called and set at work.

Richelieu grasped the rebellion at once. In broad daylight he seized Condé and shut him up
in the Bastille; other noble leaders he declared guilty of treason, and degraded them; he set
forth the crimes and follies of the nobles in a manifesto which stung their cause to death
in a moment; he published his policy in a proclamation which ran through France like fire,
warming all hearts of patriots, withering all hearts of rebels; he sent out three great armies:
one northward to grasp Picardy, one eastward to grasp Champagne, one southward to grasp Berri.
There is a man who can do something! The nobles yield in a moment: they must yield.

But, just at this moment, when a better day seemed to dawn, came an event which threw France
back into anarchy, and Richelieu out into the world again.

The young King, Louis XIII., was now sixteen years old. His mother the Regent and her favorite
Concini had carefully kept him down. Under their treatment he had grown morose and seemingly
stupid; but he had wit enough to understand the policy of his mother and Concini, and strength
enough to hate them for it.

The only human being to whom Louis showed any love was a young falconer, Albert de Luynes,--and
with De Luynes he conspired against his mother's power and her favorite's life. On an April
morning, 1617, the King and De Luynes sent a party of chosen men to seize Concini. They met
him at the gate of the Louvre. As usual, he is bird-like in his utterance, snake-like in his
bearing. They order him to surrender; he chirps forth his surprise,--and they blow out his
brains. Louis, understanding the noise, puts on his sword, appears on the balcony of the palace,
is saluted with hurrahs, and becomes master of his kingdom.

Straightway measures are taken against all supposed to be attached to the Regency. Concini's
wife, the favorite Leonora, is burned as a witch,--Regent Mary is sent to Blois,--Richelieu
is banished to his bishopric.

And now matters went from bad to worse. King Louis was no stronger than Regent Mary had been,--King's
favorite Luynes was no better than Regent's favorite Concini had been. The nobles rebelled
against the new rule, as they had rebelled against the old. The King went through the same
old extortions and humiliations.

Then came also to full development yet another vast evil. As far back as the year after Henry's
assassination, the Protestants, in terror of their enemies, now that Henry was gone and the
Spaniards seemed to grow in favor, formed themselves into a great republican league,--a State
within the State,--regularly organised in peace for political effort, and in war for military
effort,--with a Protestant clerical caste which ruled always with pride, and often with menace.

Against such a theocratic republic war must come sooner or later, and in 1617 the struggle
began. Army was pitted against army,--Protestant Duke of Rohan against Catholic Duke of Luynes.
Meanwhile Austria and the foreign enemies of France, Condé and the domestic enemies of France,
fished in the troubled waters, and made rich gains every day. So France plunged into sorrows
ever deeper and blacker. But in 1624, Mary de Medici, having been reconciled to her son, urged
him to recall Richelieu.

The dislike which Louis bore Richelieu was strong, but the dislike he bore toward compromises
had become stronger. Into his poor brain, at last, began to gleam the truth, that a serf-mastering
caste, after a compromise, only whines more steadily and snarls more loudly,--that, at last,
compromising becomes worse than fighting. Richelieu was called and set at work.

Fortunately for our studies of the great statesman's policy, he left at his death a "Political
Testament" which floods with light his steadiest aims and boldest acts. In that Testament he
wrote this message:--

  "When Your Majesty resolved to give
  me entrance into your councils and a
  great share of your confidence, I can declare
  with truth that the Huguenots divided
  the authority with Your Majesty, that
  the great nobles acted not at all as subjects,
  that the governors of provinces took
  on themselves the airs of sovereigns, and
  that the foreign alliances of France were
  despised. I promised Your Majesty to
  use all my industry, and all the authority
  you gave me, to ruin the Huguenot party,
  to abase the pride of the high nobles,
  and to raise your name among foreign
  nations to the place where it ought to
  be."

Such were the plans of Richelieu at the outset. Let us see how he wrought out their fulfilment.

First of all, he performed daring surgery and cautery about the very heart of the Court. In
a short time he had cut out from that living centre of French power a number of unworthy ministers
and favorites, and replaced them by men, on whom he could rely.

Then he began his vast work. His policy embraced three great objects: First, the overthrow
of the Huguenot power; secondly, the subjugation of the great nobles; thirdly, the destruction
of the undue might of Austria.

First, then, after some preliminary negotiations with foreign powers,--to be studied hereafter,--he
attacked the great politico-religious party of the Huguenots.

These held, as their great centre and stronghold, the famous seaport of La Rochelle. He who
but glances at the map shall see how strong was this position: he shall see two islands lying
just off the west coast at that point, controlled by La Rochelle, yet affording to any foreign
allies whom the Huguenots might admit there facilities for stinging France during centuries.
The position of the Huguenots seemed impregnable. The city was well fortressed,--garrisoned
by the bravest of men,--mistress of a noble harbor open at all times to supplies from foreign
ports,--and in that harbor rode a fleet, belonging to the city, greater than the navy of France.

Richelieu saw well that here was the head of the rebellion. Here, then, he must strike it.

Strange as it may seem, his diplomacy was so skillful that he obtained ships to attack Protestants
in La Rochelle from the two great Protestant powers,--England and Holland. With these he was
successful. He attacked the city fleet, ruined it, and cleared the harbor.

But now came a terrible check. Richelieu had aroused the hate of that incarnation of all that
was and Is offensive in English politics,--the Duke of Buckingham. Scandal-mongers were wont
to say that both were in love with the Queen,--and that the Cardinal, though unsuccessful in
his suit, outwitted the Duke and sent him out of the kingdom,--and that the Duke swore a great
oath, that, if he could not enter France in one way, he would enter in another,--and that he
brought about a war, and came himself as a commander: of this scandal believe what you will.
But, be the causes what they may, the English policy changed, and Charles I. sent Buckingham
with ninety ships to aid La Rochelle.

But Buckingham was flippant and careless; Richelieu, careful when there was need, and daring
when there was need. Buckingham's heavy blows were foiled by Richelieu's keen thrusts, and
then, in his confusion, Buckingham blundered so foolishly, and Richelieu profited by his blunders
so shrewdly, that the fleet returned to England without any accomplishment of its purpose.
The English were also driven from that vexing position in the Isle of Rhé.

Having thus sent the English home, for a time at least, he led king and nobles and armies to
La Rochelle, and commenced the siege in full force. Difficulties met him at every turn; but
the worst difficulty of all was that arising from the spirit of the nobility.

No one could charge the nobles of France with lack of bravery. The only charge was, that their
bravery was almost sure to shun every useful form, and to take every noxious form. The bravery
which finds outlet in duels they showed constantly; the bravery which finds outlet in street-fights
they had shown from the days when the Duke of Orleans perished in a brawl to the days when
the "Mignons" of Henry III. fought at sight every noble whose beard was not cut to suit them.
The pride fostered by lording it over serfs, in the country, and by lording it over men who
did not own serfs, in the capital, aroused bravery of this sort and plenty of it. But that
bravery which serves a great, good cause, which must be backed by steadiness and watchfulness,
was not so plentiful. So Richelieu found that the nobles who had conducted the siege before
he took command had, through their brawling propensities and lazy propensities, allowed the
besieged to garner in the crops from the surrounding country, and to master all the best points
of attack.

But Richelieu pressed on. First he built an immense wall and earthwork, nine miles long, surrounding
the city, and, to protect this, he raised eleven great forts and eighteen redoubts.

Still the harbor was open, and into this the English fleet might return and succor the city
at any time. His plan was soon made. In the midst of that great harbor of La Rochelle he sank
sixty hulks of vessels filled with stone; then, across the harbor,--nearly a mile wide, and,
in places, more than eight hundred feet deep,--he began building over these sunken ships a
great dike and wall,--thoroughly fortified, carefully engineered, faced with sloping layers
of hewn stone. His own men scolded at the magnitude of the work,--the men in La Rochelle laughed
at it. Worse than that, the Ocean sometimes laughed and scolded at it. Sometimes the waves
sweeping in from that fierce Bay of Biscay destroyed in an hour the work of a week. The carelessness
of a subordinate once destroyed in a moment the work of three months.

Yet it is but fair to admit that there was one storm which did not beat against Richelieu's
dike. There set in against it no storm of hypocrisy from neighboring nations. Keen works for
and against Richelieu were put forth in his day,--works calm and strong for and against him
have been issuing from the presses of France and England and Germany ever since; but not one
of the old school of keen writers or of the new school of calm writers is known to have ever
hinted that this complete sealing of the only entrance to a leading European harbor was unjust
to the world at large or unfair to the besieged themselves.

But all other obstacles Richelieu had to break through or cut through constantly. He was his
own engineer, general, admiral, prime-minister. While he urged on the army to work upon the
dike, he organized a French navy, and in due time brought it around to that coast and anchored
it so as to guard the dike and to be guarded by it.

Yet, daring as all this work was, it was but the smallest part of his work. Richelieu found
that his officers were cheating his soldiers in their pay and disheartening them; in face of
the enemy he had to reorganize the army and to create a new military system. He made the army
twice as effective and supported it at two-thirds less cost than before. It was his boast in
his "Testament," that, from a mob, the army became "like a well-ordered convent." He found
also that his subordinates were plundering the surrounding country, and thus rendering it disaffected;
he at once ordered that what had been taken should be paid for, and that persons trespassing
thereafter should be severely punished. He found also the great nobles who commanded in the
army half-hearted and almost traitorous from sympathy with those of their own caste on the
other side of the walls of La Rochelle, and from their fear of his increased power, should
he gain a victory. It was their common saying, that they were fools to help him do it. But
he saw the true point at once--He placed in the most responsible positions of his army men
who felt for his cause, whose hearts and souls were in it,--men not of the Dalgetty stamp,
but of the Cromwell stamp. He found also, as he afterward said, that he had to conquer not
only the Kings of England and Spain, but also the King of France. At the most critical moment
of the siege Louis deserted him,--went back to Paris,--allowed courtiers to fill him with suspicions.
Not only Richelieu's place, but his life, was in danger, and he well knew it; yet he never
left his dike and siege-works, but wrought on steadily until they were done; and then the King,
of his own will, in very shame, broke away from his courtiers, and went back to his master.

And now a Royal Herald summoned the people of La Rochelle to surrender. But they were not yet
half conquered. Even when they had seen two English fleets, sent to aid them, driven back from
Richelieu's dike, they still held out manfully. The Duchess of Rohan, the Mayor Guiton, and
the Minister Salbert, by noble sacrifices and burning words, kept the will of the besieged
firm as steel. They were reduced to feed on their horses,--then on bits of filthy shell-fish,--then
on stewed leather. They died in multitudes.

Guiton the Mayor kept a dagger on the city council-table to stab any man who should speak of
surrender; some who spoke of yielding he ordered to execution as seditious. When a friend showed
him a person dying of hunger, be said, "Does that astonish you? Both you and I must come to
that." When another told him that multitudes were perishing, he said, "Provided one remains
to hold the city-gate, I ask nothing more."

But at last even Guiton had to yield. After the siege had lasted more than a year, after five
thousand were found remaining out of fifteen thousand, after a mother had been seen to feed
her child with her own blood, the Cardinal's policy became too strong for him. The people yielded,
and Richelieu entered the city as master.

And now the victorious statesman showed a greatness of soul to which all the rest of his life
was as nothing. He was a Catholic cardinal,--the Rochellois were Protestants; he was a stern
ruler,--they were rebellious subjects who had long worried and almost impoverished him;--all
Europe, therefore, looked for a retribution more terrible than any in history.

Richelieu allowed nothing of the sort. He destroyed the old franchises of the city, for they
were incompatible with that royal authority which he so earnestly strove to build. But this
was all. He took no vengeance,--he allowed the Protestants to worship as before,--he took many
of them into the public service,--and to Guiton he showed marks of respect. He stretched forth
that strong arm of his over the city, and warded off all harm. He kept back greedy soldiers
from pillage,--he kept back bigot priests from persecution. Years before this he had said,
"The diversity of religions may indeed create a division in the other world, but not in this";
at another time he wrote, "Violent remedies only aggravate spiritual diseases." And he was
now so tested, that these expressions were found to embody not merely an idea, but a belief.
For, when the Protestants in La Rochelle, though thug owing tolerance and even existence to
a Catholic, vexed Catholics in a spirit most intolerant, even that could not force him to abridge
the religious liberties he had given.

He saw beyond his time,--not only beyond Catholics, but beyond Protestants. Two years after
that great example of toleration in La Rochelle, Nicholas Antoine w as executed for apostasy
from Calvinism at Geneva. And for his leniency Richelieu received the titles of Pope of the
Protestants and Patriarch of the Atheists. But he had gained the first great object of his
policy, and he would not abuse it: he had crushed the political power of the Huguenots forever.

Let us turn now to the second great object of his policy. He must break the power of the nobility:
on that condition alone could France have strength and order, and here he showed his daring
at the outset. "It is iniquitous," he was wont to tell the King, "to try to make an example
by punishing the lesser offenders: they are but trees which cast no shade: it is the great
nobles who must be disciplined."

It was not long before he had to begin this work,--and with the highest,--with no less a personage
than Gaston, Duke of Orleans,--favorite son of Mary,--brother of the King. He who thinks shall
come to a higher idea of Richelieu's boldness, when he remembers that for many years after
this Louis was childless and sickly, and that during all those years Richelieu might awake
any morning to find Gaston--King.

In 1626, Gaston, with the Duke of Vendôme, half-brother of the King, the Duchess of Chevreuse,
confidential friend of the Queen, the Count of Soissons, the Count of Chalais, and the Marshal
Ornano, formed a conspiracy after the old fashion. Richelieu had his hand at their lofty throats
in a moment. Gaston, who was used only as a makeweight, he forced into the most humble apologies
and the most binding pledges; Ornano he sent to die in the Bastille; the Duke of Vendôme and
the Duchess of Chevreuse he banished; Chalais he sent to the scaffold.

The next year he gave the grandees another lesson. The serf-owning spirit had fostered in France,
through many years, a rage for duelling. Richelieu determined that this should stop. He gave
notice that the law against duelling was revived, and that he would enforce it. It was soon
broken by two of the loftiest nobles in France,--by the Count of Bouteville-Montmorency and
the Count des Chapelles. They laughed at the law: they fought defiantly in broad daylight.
Nobody dreamed that the law would be carried out against them. The Cardinal would, they thought,
deal with them as rulers have dealt with serf-mastering law-breakers from those days to these,--invent
some quibble and screen them with it. But his method was sharper and shorter. He seized both,
and executed both on the Place de Greve,--the place of execution for the vilest malefactors.

No doubt, that, under the present domineering of the pettifogger caste, there are hosts of
men whose minds run in such small old grooves that they hold legal forms not a means, but an
end: these will cry out against this proceeding as tyrannical. No doubt, too, that, under the
present palaver of the "sensationist" caste, the old ladies of both sexes have come to regard
crime as mere misfortune: these will lament this proceeding as cruel. But, for this act, if
for no other, an earnest man's heart ought in these times to warm toward the great statesman.
The man had a spine. To his mind crime was cot mere misfortune: crime was CRIME. Crime was
strong; it would pay him well to screen it; it might cost him dear to fight it. But he was
not a modern "smart" lawyer, to seek popularity by screening criminals,--nor a modern soft
juryman, to suffer his eyes to be blinded by quirks and quibbles to the great purposes of law,--nor
a modern bland governor, who lets a murderer loose out of politeness to the murderer's mistress.
He hated crime; he whipped the criminal; no petty forms and no petty men of forms could stand
between him and a rascal. He had the sense to see that this course was not cruel, but merciful.
See that for yourselves. In the eighteen years before Richelieu's administration, four thousand
men perished in duels; in the ten years after Richelieu's death, nearly a thousand thus perished;
but during his whole administration, duelling was checked completely. Which policy was tyrannical?
which policy was cruel?

The hatred of the serf-mastering caste toward their new ruler grew blacker and blacker; but
he never flinched. The two brothers Marillac, proud of birth, high in office, endeavored to
stir revolt as in their good days of old. The first, who was Keeper of the Seals, Richelieu
threw into prison; with the second, who was a Marshal of France, Richelieu took another course.
For this Marshal had added to revolt things more vile and more insidiously hurtful: he had
defrauded the Government in army-contracts. Richelieu tore him from his army and put him on
trial. The Queen-Mother, whose pet he was, insisted on his liberation. Marillac himself blubbered,
that it "was all about a little straw and hay, a matter for which a master would not whip a
lackey." Marshal Marillac was executed. So, when statesmen rule, fare all who take advantage
of the agonies of a nation to pilfer a nation's treasure.

To crown all, the Queen-Mother began now to plot against Richelieu, because he would not be
her puppet,--and he banished her from France forever.

The high nobles were now exasperate. Gaston tied the country, first issuing against Richelieu
a threatening manifesto. Now awoke the Duke of Montmorency. By birth he stood next the King's
family: by office, as Constable of France, he stood next the King himself. Montmorency was
defeated and taken. The nobles supplicated for him lustily: they looked on crimes of nobles
resulting in deaths of plebeians as lightly as the English House of Lords afterward looked
on Lord Mohun's murder of Will Mountfort, or as another body of lords looked on Matt Ward's
murder of Professor Butler: but Montmorency was executed. Says Richelieu, in his Memoirs, "Many
murmured at this act, and called it severe; but others, more wise, praised the justice of the
King, who preferred the good of the State to the vain reputation of a hurtful clemency."

Nor did the great minister grow indolent as he grew old. The Duke of Epernon, who seems to
have had more direct power of the old feudal sort than any other man in France, and who had
been so turbulent under the Regency,--him Richelieu humbled completely. The Duke of La Valette
disobeyed orders in the army, and he was executed as a common soldier would have been for the
same offence. The Count of Soissons tried to see if he could not revive the good old turbulent
times, and raised a rebel army; but Richelieu hunted him down like a wild beast. Then certain
Court nobles,--pets of the King,--Cinq-Mars and De Thou, wove a new plot, and, to strengthen
it, made a secret treaty with Spain; but the Cardinal, though dying, obtained a copy of the
treaty, through his agent, and the traitors expiated their treason with their blood.

But this was not all. The Parliament of Paris,--a court of justice,--filled with the idea that
law is not a means, but an end, tried to interpose forms between the Master of France and the
vermin he was exterminating. That Parisian court might, years before, have done something.
They might have insisted that petty quibbles set forth by the lawyers of Paris should not defeat
the eternal laws of retribution set forth by the Lawgiver of the Universe. That they had not
done, and the time for legal forms had gone by. The Paris Parliament would not see this, and
Richelieu crushed the Parliament. Then the Court of Aids refused to grant supplies, and he
crushed that court. In all this the nation braced him. Woe to the courts of a nation, when
they have forced the great body of plain men to regard legality as injustice!--woe to the councils
of a nation, when they have forced the great body of plain men to regard legislation as traffic!--woe,
thrice repeated, to gentlemen of the small pettifogger sort, when they have brought such times,
and God has brought a man to fit them!

There was now in France no man who could stand against the statesman's purpose.

And so, having hewn, through all that anarchy and bigotry and selfishness, a way for the people,
he called them to the work. In 1626 he summoned an assembly to carry out reforms. It was essentially
a people's assembly. That anarchical States-General, domineered by great nobles, he would not
call; but he called an Assembly of Notables. In this was not one prince or duke, and two-thirds
of the members came directly from the people. Into this body he thrust some of his own energy.
Measures were taken for the creation of a navy. An idea was now carried into effect which many
suppose to have sprung from the French Revolution; for the army was made more effective by
opening its high grades to the commons.[A] A reform was also made in taxation, and shrewd measures
were taken to spread commerce and industry by calling the nobility into them.

[Footnote A: See the ordonnances in Thierry, Histoire du Tiers Etat.]

Thus did France, under his guidance, secure order and progress. Calmly he destroyed all useless
feudal castles which had so long overawed the people and defied the monarchy. He abolished
also the military titles of Grand Admiral and High Constable, which had hitherto given the
army and navy into the hands of leading noble families. He destroyed some troublesome remnants
of feudal courts, and created royal courts: in one year that of Poitiers alone punished for
exactions and violence against the people more than two hundred nobles. Greatest step of all,
he deposed the hereditary noble governors, and placed in their stead governors taken from the
people,--Intendants,--responsible to the central authority alone.[B]

[Footnote B: For the best sketch of this see Caillet, L'Administration sous Richelieu.]

We are brought now to the third great object of Richelieu's policy. He saw from the beginning
that Austria and her satellite Spain must be humbled, if France was to take her rightful place
in Europe.

Hardly, then, had he entered the council, when he negotiated a marriage of the King's sister
with the son of James I. of England; next he signed an alliance with Holland; next he sent
ten thousand soldiers to drive the troops of the Pope and Spain out of the Valtelline district
of the Alps, and thus secured an alliance with the Swiss. We are to note here the fact which
Buckle wields so well, that, though Richelieu was a Cardinal of the Roman Church, all these
alliances were with Protestant powers against Catholic.[C] Austria and Spain intrigued against
him,--sowing money in the mountain-districts of South France which brought forth those crops
of armed men who defended La Rochelle. But he beat them at their own game. He set loose Count
Mansfyld, who revived the Thirty Tears' War by raising a rebellion in Bohemia; and when one
great man, Wallenstein, stood between Austria and ruin, Richelieu sent his monkish diplomatist,
Father Joseph, to the German Assembly of Electors, and persuaded them to dismiss Wallenstein
and to disgrace him.

[Footnote C: History of Civilisation in England, Vol. I. Chap. VIII.]

But the great Frenchman's master-stroke was his treaty with Gustavus Adolphus. With that keen
glance of his, he saw and knew Gustavus while yet the world knew him not,--while he was battling
afar off in the wilds of Poland. Richelieu's plan was formed at once. He brought about a treaty
between Gustavus and Poland; then he filled Gustavus's mind with pictures of the wrongs inflicted
by Austria on German Protestants, hinted to him probably of a new realm, filled his treasury,
and finally hurled against Austria the man who destroyed Tilly, who conquered Wallenstein,
who annihilated Austrian supremacy at the Battle of Lüizen, who, though in his grave, wrenched
Protestant rights from Austria at the Treaty of Westphalia, who pierced the Austrian monarchy
with the most terrible sorrows it ever saw before the time of Napoleon.

To the main objects of Richelieu's policy already given might be added two subordinate objects.

The first of these was a healthful extension of French territory. In this Richelieu planned
better than the first Napoleon; for, while he did much to carry France out to her natural boundaries,
he kept her always within them. On the South he added Roussillon, on the East, Alsace, on the
Northeast, Artois.

The second subordinate object of his policy sometimes flashed forth brilliantly. He was determined
that England should never again interfere on French soil. We have seen him driving the English
from La Rochelle and from the Isle of Rhé; but he went farther. In 1628, on making some proposals
to England, he was repulsed with English haughtiness. "They shall know," said the Cardinal,
"that they cannot despise me." Straightway one sees protests and revolts of the Presbyterians
of Scotland, and Richelieu's agents in the thickest of them.

And now what was Richelieu's statesmanship in its sum?

I. In the Political Progress of France, his work has already been sketched as building monarchy
and breaking anarchy.

Therefore have men said that he swept away old French liberties. What old liberties? Richelieu
but tore away the decaying, poisonous husks and rinds which hindered French liberties from
their chance at life and growth.

Therefore, also, have men said that Richelieu built up absolutism. The charge is true and welcome.
For, evidently, absolutism was the only force, in that age, which could destroy the serf-mastering
caste. Many a Polish patriot, as he to-day wanders through the Polish villages, groans that
absolutism was not built to crush that serf-owning aristocracy which has been the real architect
of Poland's ruin. Any one who reads to much purpose in De Mably, or Guizot, or Henri Martin,
knows that this part of Richelieu's statesmanship was but a masterful continuation of all great
French statesmanship since the twelfth-century league of king and commons against nobles, and
that Richelieu stood in the heirship of all great French statesmen since Suger. That part of
Richelieu's work, then, was evidently bedded in the great line of Divine Purpose running through
that age and through all ages.

II. In the Internal Development of France, Richelieu proved himself a true builder. The founding
of the French Academy and of the Jardin des Plantes, the building of the College of Plessis,
and the rebuilding of the College of the Sorbonne, are among the monuments of this part of
his statesmanship. His, also, is much of that praise usually lavished on Louis XIV. for the
career opened in the seventeenth century to science, literature, and art. He was also a reformer,
and his zeal was proved, when, in the fiercest of the La Rochelle struggle, he found time to
institute great reforms not only in the army and navy, but even in the monasteries.

III. On the General Progress of Europe, his work must be judged as mainly for good. Austria
was the chief barrier to European progress, and that barrier he broke. But a far greater impulse
to the general progress of Europe was given by the idea of Toleration which he thrust into
the methods of European statesmen. He, first of all statesmen in France, saw, that, in French
policy, to use his own words, "A Protestant Frenchman is better than a Catholic Spaniard";
and he, first of all statesmen in Europe, saw, that, in European policy, patriotism, must outweigh
bigotry.

IV. His Faults in Method were many. His under-estimate of the sacredness of human life was
one; but that was the fault of his age. His frequent working by intrigue was another; but that
also was a vile method accepted by his age. The fair questions, then, are,--Did he not commit
the fewest and smallest wrongs possible in beating back those many and great wrongs? Wrong
has often a quick, spasmodic force; but was there not in his arm a steady growing force, which
could only be a force of right?

V. His Faults in Policy crystallized about one: for, while he subdued the serf-mastering nobility,
he struck no final blow at the serf-system itself.

Our running readers of French history need here a word of caution. They follow De Tocqueville,
and De Tocqueville follows Biot in speaking of the serf-system as abolished in most of France
hundreds of years before this. But Biot and De Tocqueville take for granted a knowledge in
their readers that the essential vileness of the system, and even many of its most shocking
outward features, remained.

Richelieu might have crushed the serf-system, really, as easily as Louis X. and Philip the
Long had crushed it nominally. This Richelieu did not.

And the consequences of this great man's great fault were terrible. Hardly was he in his grave,
when the nobles perverted the effort of the Paris Parliament for advance in liberty, and took
the lead in the fearful revolts and massacres of the Fronde. Then came Richelieu's pupil, Mazarin,
who tricked the nobles into order, and Mazarin's pupil, Louis XIV., who bribed them into order.
But a nobility borne on high by the labor of a servile class must despise labor; so there came
those weary years of indolent gambling and debauchery and "serf-eating" at Versailles.

Then came Louis XV., who was too feeble to maintain even the poor decent restraints imposed
by Louis XIV.; so the serf-mastering caste became active in a new way, and their leaders in
vileness unutterable became at last Fronsac and De Sade.

Then came "the deluge." The spirit of the serf-mastering caste, as left by Richelieu, was a
main cause of the miseries which brought on the French Revolution. When the Third Estate brought
up their "portfolio of grievances," for one complaint against the exactions of the monarchy
there were fifty complaints against the exactions of the nobility.[D]

[Footnote D: See any Résumé des Cahiers,--even the meagre ones in Buchez and Roux, or Le Bas,
or Chéruel.]

Then came the failure of the Revolution in its direct purpose; and of this failure the serf-mastering
caste was a main cause. For this caste, hardened by ages of domineering over a servile class,
despite fourth of August renunciations, would not, could not, accept a position compatible
with freedom and order: so earnest men were maddened, and sought to tear out this cancerous
mass, with all its burning roots.

But for Richelieu's great fault there is an excuse. His mind was saturated with ideas of the
impossibility of inducing freed peasants to work,--the impossibility of making them citizens,--the
impossibility, in short, of making them men. To his view was not unrolled the rich newer world-history,
to show that a working class is most dangerous when restricted,--that oppression is more dangerous
to the oppressor than to the oppressed,--that, if man will hew out paths to liberty, God will
hew out paths to prosperity. But Richelieu's fault teaches the world not less than his virtues.

At last, on the third of December, 1642, the great statesman lay upon his death-bed. The death-hour
is a great revealer of motives, and as with weaker men, so with Richelieu. Light then shot
over the secret of his whole life's plan and work.

He was told that he must die: he received the words with calmness. As the Host, which he believed
the veritable body of the Crucified, was brought him, he said, "Behold my Judge before whom
I must shortly appear! I pray Him to condemn me, if I have ever had any other motive than the
cause of religion and my country." The confessor asked him if he pardoned his enemies: he answered,
"I have none but those of the State."

So passed from earth this strong man. Keen he was in sight, steady in aim, strong in act. A
true man,--not "non-committal," but wedded to a great policy in the sight of all men: seen
by earnest men of all times to have marshalled against riot and bigotry and unreason divine
forces and purposes; seen by earnest men of these times to have taught the true method of grasping
desperate revolt, and of strangling that worst foe of liberty and order in every age,--a serf-owning
aristocracy.

UNDER THE SNOW.

The spring had tripped and lost her flowers,
  The summer sauntered through the glades,
The wounded feet of autumn hours
 Left ruddy footprints on the blades.

And all the glories of the woods
  Had flung their shadowy silence down,--
When, wilder than the storm it broods,
 She fled before the winter's frown.

For her sweet spring had lost its flowers,
  She fell, and passion's tongues of flame
Ran reddening through the blushing bowers,
  Now haggard as her naked shame.

One secret thought her soul had screened,
  When prying matrons sought her wrong,
And Blame stalked on, a mouthing fiend,
  And mocked her as she fled along.

And now she bore its weight aloof,
  To hide it where one ghastly birch
Held up the rafters of the roof,
  And grim old pine-trees formed a church.

'Twas there her spring-time vows were sworn,
  And there upon its frozen sod,
While wintry midnight reigned forlorn,
  She knelt, and held her hands to God.

The cautious creatures of the air
  Looked out from many a secret place,
To see the embers of despair
  Flush the gray ashes of her face.

And where the last week's snow had caught
  The gray beard of a cypress limb,
She heard the music of a thought
  More sweet than her own childhood's hymn.

For rising in that cadence low,
  With "Now I lay me down to sleep,"
Her mother rocked her to and fro,
  And prayed the Lord her soul to keep.

And still her prayer was humbly raised,
  Held up in two cold hands to God,
That, white as some old pine-tree blazed,
  Gleamed far o'er that dark frozen sod.

The storm stole out beyond the wood,
  She grew the vision of a cloud,
Her dark hair was a misty hood,
  Her stark face shone as from a shroud.

Still sped the wild storm's rustling feet
  To martial music of the pines,
And to her cold heart's muffled beat
  Wheeled grandly into solemn lines.

And still, as if her secret's woe
  No mortal words had ever found,
This dying sinner draped in snow
  Held up her prayer without a sound.

But when the holy angel bands
  Saw this lone vigil, lowly kept,
They gathered from her frozen hands
  The prayer thus folded, and they wept.

Some snow-flakes--wiser than the rest--
  Soon faltered o'er a thing of clay,
First read this secret of her breast,
  Then gently robed her where she lay.

The dead dark hair, made white with snow,
  A still stark face, two folded palms,
And (mothers, breathe her secret low!)
  An unborn infant--asking alms.

God kept her counsel; cold and mute
  His steadfast mourners closed her eyes,
Her head-stone was an old tree's root,
  Be mine to utter,--"Here she lies."

SLAVERY, IN ITS PRINCIPLES, DEVELOPMENT, AND EXPEDIENTS.

Within the memory of men still in the vigor of life, American Slavery was considered by a vast
majority of the North, and by a large minority of the South, as an evil which should, at best,
be tolerated, and not a good which deserved to be extended and protected. A kind of lazy acquiescence
in it as a local matter, to be managed by local legislation, was the feeling of the Free States.
In both the Slave and the Free States, the discussion of the essential principles on which
Slavery rests was confined to a few disappointed Nullifiers and a few uncompromising Abolitionists,
and we can recollect the time when Calhoun and Garrison were both classed by practical statesmen
of the South and North in one category of pestilent "abstractionists." Negro Slavery was considered
simply as a fact; and general irritation among most politicians of all sections was sure to
follow any attempt to explore the principles on which the fact reposed. That these principles
had the mischievous vitality which events have proved them to possess, few of our wisest statesmen
then dreamed, and we have drifted by degrees into the present war without any clear perception
of its animating causes.

The future historian will trace the steps by which the subject of Slavery was forced on the
reluctant attention of the citizens of the Free States, so that at last the most cautious conservative
could not ignore its intrusive presence, could not banish its reality from his eyes, or its
image from his mind. He will show why Slavery, disdaining its old argument from expediency,
challenged discussion on its principles. He will explain the process by which it became discontented
with toleration within its old limits, and demanded the championship or connivance of the National
Government in a plan for its limitless extension. He will indicate the means by which it corrupted
the Southern heart and Southern brain, so that at last the elemental principles of morals and
religion were boldly denied, and the people came to "believe a lie." He will, not unnaturally,
indulge in a little sarcasm, when he comes to consider the occupation of Southern professors
of ethics, compelled by their position to scoff at the "rights" of man, and Southern professors
of theology, compelled by their position to teach that Christ came into the world, not so much
to save sinners, as to enslave negroes. He will be forced to class these among the meanest
and most abject slaves that the planters owned. In treating of the subserviency of the North,
he will be constrained to write many a page which will flush the cheeks of our descendants
with indignation and shame. He will show the method by which Slavery, after vitiating the conscience
and intelligence of the South, contrived to vitiate in part, and for a time, the conscience
and intelligence of the North. It will be his ungrateful task to point to many instances of
compliance and concession on the part of able Northern statesmen which will deeply affect their
fame with posterity, though he will doubtless refuse to adopt to the full the contemporary
clamor against their motives. He will understand, better than we, the amount of patriotism
which entered into their "concessions," and the amount of fraternal good-will which prompted
their fatal "compromises." But he will also declare that the object of the Slave Power was
not attained. Vacillating statesmen and corrupt politicians it might address, the first through
their fears, the second through their interests; but the intrepid and incorruptible "people"
were but superficially affected. A few elections were gained, but the victories were barren
of results. From political defeat the free people of the North came forth more earnest and
more united than ever.

The insolent pretensions of the Slavocracy were repudiated; its political and ethical maxims
were disowned; and after having stirred the noblest impulses of the human heart by the spectacle
of its tyranny, its attempt to extend that tyranny only roused an insurrection of the human
understanding against the impudence of its logic. The historian can then only say, that the
Slave Power "seceded," being determined to form a part of no government which it could not
control. The present war is to decide whether its real force corresponds to the political force
it has exerted heretofore in our affairs.

That this war has been forced upon the Free States by the "aggressions" of the Slave Power
is so plain that no argument is necessary to sustain the proposition. It is not so universally
understood that the Slave Power is aggressive by the necessities of the wretched system of
labor on which its existence is based. By a short exposition of the principles of Slavery,
and the expedients it has practised during the last twenty or thirty years, we think that this
proposition can be established.

And first it must be always borne in mind, that Slavery, as a system, is based on the most
audacious, inhuman, and self-evident of lies,--the assertion, namely, that property can be
held in men. Property applies to things. There is a meta-physical impossibility implied in
the attempt to extend its application to persons. It is possible, we admit, to ordain by local
law that four and four make ten, but such an exercise of legislative wisdom could not overcome
certain arithmetical prejudices innate in our minds, or dethrone the stubborn eight from its
accustomed position in our thoughts. But you might as well ordain that four and four make ten
as ordain that a man has no right to himself, but can properly be held as the chattel of another.
Yet this arrogant falsehood of property in men has been organized into a colossal institution.
The South calls it a "peculiar" institution; and herein perhaps consists its peculiarity, that
it is an absurdity which has lied itself into a substantial form, and now argues its right
to exist from the fact of its existence. Doubtless, the fact that a thing exists proves that
it has its roots in human nature; but before we accept this as decisive of its right to exist,
it may be well to explore those qualities in human nature, "peculiar" and perverse as itself,
from which it derives its poisonous vitality and strength. It is plain, we think, that an institution
embodying an essential falsity, which equally affronts the common sense and the moral sense
of mankind, and which, as respects chronology, was as repugnant to the instincts of Homer as
it is to the instincts of Whittier, must have sprung from the unblessed union of wilfulness
and avarice, of avarice which knows no conscience, and of wilfulness that tramples on reason;
and the marks of this parentage, the signs of these its boasted roots in human nature, are,
we are constrained to concede, visible in every stage of its growth, in every argument for
its existence, in every motive for its extension.

It is not, perhaps, surprising that some of the advocates of Slavery do not relish the analysis
which reveals the origin of their institution in those dispositions which connect man with
the tiger and the wolf. Accordingly they discourage, with true democratic humility, all genealogical
inquiries into the ancestry of their system, substitute generalization for analysis, and, twisting
the maxims of religion into a philosophy of servitude, bear down all arguments with the sounding
proposition, that Slavery is included in the plan of God's providence, and therefore cannot
be wrong. Certain thinkers of our day have asserted the universality of the religious element
in human nature: and it must be admitted that men become very pious when their minds are illuminated
by the discernment of a Providential sanction for their darling sins, and by the discovery
that God is on the side of their interests and passions. Napoleon's religious perceptions were
somewhat obtuse, as tried by the standards of the Church, yet nothing could exceed the depth
of his belief that God "was with the heaviest column"; and the most obdurate jobber in human
flesh may well glow with apostolic fervor, as, from the height of philosophic contemplation
to which this principle lifts him, he discerns the sublime import of his Providential mission.
It is true, he is now willing to concede, that a man's right to himself, being given by God,
can only by God be taken away. "But," he exultingly exclaims, "it has been taken away by God.
The negro, having always been a slave, must have been so by divine appointment; and I, the
mark of obloquy to a few fanatical enthusiasts, am really an humble agent in carrying out the
designs of a higher law even than that of the State, of a higher will even than my own." This
mode of baptizing man's sin and calling it God's providence has not altogether lacked the aid
of certain Southern clergymen, who ostentatiously profess to preach Christ and Him crucified,
and by such arguments, we may fear, crucified by them. Here is Slavery's abhorred riot of vices
and crimes, from whose soul-sickening details the human imagination shrinks aghast,--and over
all, to complete the picture, these theologians bring in the seraphic countenance of the Saviour
of mankind, smiling celestial approval of the multitudinous miseries and infamies it serenely
beholds!

It may be presumptuous to proffer counsel to such authorized expositors of religion, but one
can hardly help insinuating the humble suggestion, that it would be as well, if they must give
up the principles of liberty, not to throw Christianity in. We may be permitted to doubt the
theory of Providence which teaches that a man never so much serves God as when he serves the
Devil. Doubtless, Slavery, though opposed to God's laws, is included in the plan of God's providence,
but, in the long run, the providence most terribly confirms the laws. The stream of events,
having its fountains in iniquity, has its end in retribution. It is because God's laws are
immutable that God's providence can be foreseen as well as seen. The mere fact that a thing
exists, and persists in existing, is of little importance in determining its right to exist,
or its eventual destiny. These must be found in an inspection of the principles by which it
exists; and from the nature of its principles, we can predict its future history. The confidence
of bad men and the despair of good men proceed equally from a too fixed attention to the facts
and events before their eyes, to the exclusion of the principles which underlie and animate
them; for no insight of principles, and of the moral laws which govern human events, could
ever cause tyrants to exult or philanthropists to despond.

If we go farther into this question, we shall commonly find that the facts and events to which
we give the name of Providence are the acts of human wills divinely overruled. There is iniquity
and wrong in these facts and events, because they are the work of free human wills. But when
these free human wills organize falsehood, institute injustice, and establish oppression, they
have passed into that mental state where will has been perverted into wilfulness, and self-direction
has been exaggerated into self-worship. It is the essence of wilfulness that it exalts the
impulses of its pride above the intuitions of conscience and intelligence, and puts force in
the place of reason and right. The person has thus emancipated himself from all restraints
of a law higher than his personality, and acts from self, for self, and in sole obedience to
self. But this is personality in its Satanic form; yet it is just here that some of our theologians
have discovered in a person's actions the purposes of Providence, and discerned the Divine
intention in the fact of guilt instead of in the certainty of retribution. The tyrant element
in man is found in this Satanic form of his individuality. His will, self-released from restraint,
preys upon and crushes other wills. He asserts himself by enslaving others, and mimics Divinity
on the stilts of diabolism. Like the barbarian who thought himself enriched by the powers and
gifts of the enemy he slew, he aggrandizes his own personality, and heightens his own sense
of freedom, through the subjection of feebler natures. Ruthless, rapacious, greedy of power,
greedy of gain, it is in Slavery that he wantons in all the luxury of injustice, for it is
here that he tastes the exquisite pleasure of depriving others of that which he most values
in himself.

Thus, whether we examine this system in the light of conscience and intelligence, or in the
light of history and experience, we come to but one result,--that it has its source and sustenance
in Satanic energy, in Satanic pride, and in Satanic greed. This is Slavery in itself, detached
from the ameliorations it may receive from individual slaveholders. Now a bad system is not
continued or extended by the virtues of any individuals who are but partially corrupted by
it, but by those who work in the spirit and with the implements of its originators. Every amelioration
is a confession of the essential injustice of the thing ameliorated, and a step towards its
abolition; and the humane and Christian slaveholders owe their safety, and the security of
what they are pleased to call their property, to the vices of the hard and stern spirits whom
they profess to abhor. If they invest in stock of the Devil's corporation, they ought not to
be severe on those who look out that they punctually receive their dividends. The true slaveholder
feels that he is encamped among his slaves, that he holds them by the right of conquest, that
the relation is one of war, and that there is no crime he may not be compelled to commit in
self-defence. Disdaining all cant, he clearly perceives that the system, in its practical working,
must conform to the principles on which it is based. He accordingly believes in the lash and
the fear of the lash. If he is cruel and brutal, it may as often be from policy as from disposition,
for brutality and cruelty are the means by which weaker races are best kept "subordinated"
to stronger races; and the influence of his brutality and cruelty is felt as restraint and
terror on the plantation of his less resolute neighbor. And when we speak of brutality and
cruelty, we do not limit the application of the words to those who scourge, but extend it to
some of those who preach,--who hold up heaven as the reward of those slaves who are sufficiently
abject on earth, and threaten damnation in the next world to all who dare to assert their manhood
in this.

If, however, any one still doubts that this system develops itself logically and naturally,
and tramples down the resistance offered by the better sentiments of human nature, let him
look at the legislation which defines and protects it,--a legislation which, as expressing
the average sense and purpose of the community, is to be quoted as conclusive against the testimony
of any of its individual members. This legislation evinces the dominion of a malignant principle.
You can hear the crack of the whip and the clank of the chain in all its enactments. Yet these
laws, which cannot be read in any civilized country without mingled horror and derision, indicate
a mastery of the whole theory and practice of oppression, are admirably adapted to the end
they have in view, and bear the unmistakable marks of being the work of practical men,--of
men who know their sin, and "knowing, dare maintain." They do not, it is true, enrich the science
of jurisprudence with any large or wise additions, but we do not look for such luxuries as
justice, reason, and beneficence in ordinances devised to prop up iniquity, falsehood, and
tyranny. Ghastly caricatures of justice as these offshoots of Slavery are, they are still dictated
by the nature and necessities of the system. They have the flavor of the rank soil whence they
spring.

If we desire any stronger evidence that slaveholders constitute a general Slave Power, that
this Slave Power acts as a unit, the unity of a great interest impelled by powerful passions,
and that the virtues of individual slaveholders have little effect in checking the vices of
the system, we can find that evidence in the zeal and audacity with which this power engaged
in extending its dominion. Seemingly aggressive in this, it was really acting on the defensive,--on
the defensive, however, not against the assaults of men, but against the immutable decrees
of God. The world is so constituted, that wrong and oppression are not, in a large view, politic.
They heavily mortgage the future, when they glut the avarice of the present. The avenging Providence,
which the slaveholder cannot find in the New Testament, or in the teachings of conscience,
he is at last compelled to find in political economy; and however indifferent to the Gospel
according to Saint John, he must give heed to the gospel according to Adam Smith and Malthus.
He discovers, no doubt to his surprise, and somewhat to his indignation, that there is an intimate
relation between industrial success and justice; and however much, as a practical man, he may
despise the abstract principles which declare Slavery a nonsensical enormity, he cannot fail
to read its nature, when it slowly, but legibly, writes itself out in curses on the land. He
finds how true is the old proverb, that, "if God moves with leaden feet, He strikes with iron
hands." The law of Slavery is, that, to be lucrative, it must have a scanty population diffused
over large areas. To limit it is therefore to doom it to come to an end by the laws of population.
To limit it is to force the planters, in the end, to free their slaves, from an inability to
support them, and to force the slaves into more energy and intelligence in labor, in order
that they may subsist as freemen. People prattle about the necessity of compulsory labor; but
the true compulsory labor, the labor which has produced the miracles of modern industry, is
the labor to which a man is compelled by the necessity of saving himself, and those who are
dearer to him than self, from ignominy and want. It was by this policy of territorial limitation,
that Henry Clay, before the annexation of Texas, declared that Slavery must eventually expire.
The way was gradual, it was prudent, it was safe, it was distant, it was sure, it was according
to the nature of things. It would have been accepted, had there been any general truth in the
assertion that the slaveholders were honestly desirous of reconverting, at any time, and on
any practicable plan, their chattels into men. But true to the malignant principles of their
system, they accepted the law of its existence, but determined to evade the law of its extinction.
As Slavery required large areas and scanty population, large areas and scanty population it
should at all times have. New markets should be opened for the surplus slave-population; to
open new markets was to acquire new territory; and to acquire new territory was to gain additional
political strength. The expansive tendencies of freedom would thus be checked by the tendencies
no less expansive of bondage. To acquire Texas was not merely to acquire an additional Slave
State, but it was to keep up a demand for slaves which would prevent Virginia, North Carolina,
Maryland, and Kentucky from becoming Free States. As soon as old soils were worn out, new soils
were to be ready to receive the curse; and where slave-labor ceased to be profitable, slave-breeding
was to take its place.

This purpose was so diabolical, that, when first announced, it was treated as a caprice of
certain hot spirits, irritated by the declamations of the Abolitionists. But it is idle to
refer to transient heat thoughts which bear all the signs of cool atrocity; and needless to
seek for the causes of actions in extraneous sources, when they are plainly but steps in the
development of principles already known. Slave-breeding and Slavery-extension are necessities
of the system. Like Romulus and Remus, "they are both suckled from one wolf."

But it was just here that the question became to the Free States a practical question. There
could be no "fanaticism" in meeting it at this stage. What usually goes under the name of fanaticism
is the habit of uncompromising assault on a thing because its principles are absurd or wicked;
what usually goes under the name of common sense is the disposition to assail it at that point
where, in the development of its principles, it has become immediately and pressingly dangerous.
Now by no sophistry could we of the Free States evade the responsibility of being the extenders
of Slavery, if we allowed Slavery to be extended. If we did not oppose it from a sense of right,
we were bound to oppose it from a sense of decency. It may be said that we had nothing to do
with Slavery at the South; but we had something to do with rescuing the national character
from infamy, and unhappily we could not have anything to do with rescuing the national character
from infamy without having something to do with Slavery at the South. The question with us
was, whether we would allow the whole force of the National Government to be employed in upholding,
extending, and perpetuating this detestable and nonsensical enormity?--especially, whether
we would be guilty of that last and foulest atheism to free principles, the deliberate planting
of slave institutions on virgin soil? If this question had been put to any despot of Europe,--we
had almost said, to any despot of Asia,--his answer would undoubtedly have been an indignant
negative. Yet the South confidently expected so to wheedle or bully us into dragging our common
sense through the mud and mire of momentary expedients, that we should connive at the commission
of this execrable crime!

There can be no doubt, that, if the question had been fairly put to the inhabitants of the
Free States, their answer would have been at once decisive for freedom. Even the strongest
conservatives would have been "Free-Soilers,"--not only those who are conservatives in virtue
of their prudence, moderation, sagacity, and temper, but prejudiced conservatives, conservatives
who are tolerant of all iniquity which is decorous, inert, long-established, and disposed to
die when its time comes, conservatives as thorough in their hatred of change as Lamennais himself.
"What a noise," says Paul Louis Courier, "Lamennais would have made on the day of creation,
could he have witnessed it. His first cry to the Divinity would have been to respect that ancient
chaos." But even to conservatives of this class, the attempt to extend Slavery, though really
in the order of its natural development, must still have appeared a monstrous innovation, and
they were bound to oppose the Marats and Robespierres of despotism who were busy in the bad
work. Indeed, in our country, conservatism, through the presence of Slavery, has inverted its
usual order. In other countries, the radical of one century is the conservative of the next;
in ours, the conservative of one generation is the radical of the next. The American conservative
of 1790 is the so-called fanatic of 1820; the conservative of 1820 is the fanatic of 1856.
The American conservative, indeed, descended the stairs of compromise until his descent into
utter abnegation of all that civilized humanity holds dear was arrested by the Rebellion. And
the reason of this strange inversion of conservative principles was, that the movement of Slavery
is towards barbarism, while the movement of all countries in which labor is not positively
chattellized is towards freedom and civilization. True conservatism, it must never be forgotten,
is the refusal to give up a positive, though imperfect good, for a possible, but uncertain
improvement: in the United States it has been misused to denote the cowardly surrender of a
positive good from a fear to resist the innovations of an advancing evil and wrong.

There was, therefore, little danger that Slavery would be extended through the conscious thought
and will of the people, but there was danger that its extension might, somehow or other, occur.
Misconception of the question, devotion to party or the memory of party, prejudice against
the men who more immediately represented the Anti-Slavery principle, might make the people
unconsciously slide into this crime. And it must be said that for the divisions in the Free
States as to the mode in which the free sentiment of the people should operate the strictly
Anti-Slavery men were to some extent responsible. It is difficult to convince an ardent reformer
that the principle for which he contends, being impersonal, should be purified from the passions
and whims of his own personality. The more fervid he is, the more he is identified in the public
mind with his cause; and, in a large view, he is bound not merely to defend his cause, but
to see that the cause, through him, does not become offensive. Men are ever ready to dodge
disagreeable duties by converting questions of principles into criticisms on the men who represent
principles; and the men who represent principles should therefore look to it that they make
no needless enemies and give no needless shock to public opinion for the purpose of pushing
pet opinions, wreaking personal grudges, or gratifying individual antipathies. The artillery
of the North has heretofore played altogether too much on Northerners.

But to return. The South expected to fool the North into a compliance with its designs, by
availing itself of the divisions among its professed opponents, and by dazzling away the attention
of the people from the real nature of the wickedness to be perpetrated. Slavery was to be extended,
and the North was to be an accomplice in the business; but the Slave Power did not expect that
we should be active and enthusiastic in this work of self-degradation. It did not ask us to
extend Slavery, but simply to allow its extension to occur; and in this appeal to our moral
timidity and moral laziness, it contemptuously tossed us a few fig-leaves of fallacy and false
statement to save appearances.

We were informed, for instance, that by the equality of men is meant the equality of those
whom Providence has made equal. But this is exactly the sense in which no sane man ever understood
the doctrine of equality; for Providence has palpably made men unequal, white men as well as black.

Then we were told that the white and black races could dwell together only in the relation
of masters and slaves,--and, in the same breath, that in this relation the slaves were steadily
advancing in civilization and Christianity. But, if steadily advancing in civilization and
Christianity, the time must inevitably come when they would not submit to be slaves; and then
what becomes of the statement that the white and black races cannot dwell together as freemen?
Why boast of their improvement, when you are improving them only that you may exterminate them,
or they you?

Then, with a composure of face which touches the exquisite in effrontery, we were assured that
this antithesis of master and slave, of tyrant and abject natures, is really a perfect harmony.
Slavery--so said these logicians of liberticide--has solved the great social problem of the
working-classes, comfortably for capital, happily for labor; and has effected this by an ingenious
expedient which could have occurred only to minds of the greatest depth and comprehension,
the expedient, namely, of enslaving labor. Now doubtless there has always been a struggle between
employers and employed, and this struggle will probably continue until the relations between
the two are more humane and Christian. But Slavery exhibits this struggle in its earliest and
most savage stage, a stage answering to the rude energies and still ruder conceptions of barbarians.
The issue of the struggle, it is plain, will not be that capital will own labor, but that labor
will own capital, and no man be owned.

Still we were vehemently told, that, though the slaves, for their own good, were deprived of
their rights as men, they were in a fine state of physical comfort. This was not and could
not be true; but even if it were, it only represented the slaveholder as addressing his slave
in some such words of derisive scorn as Byron hurls at Duke Alphonso,--

"Thou! born to eat, and be despised, and die, Even as the brutes that perish,"--

though we doubt if he could truly add,--

"save that thou Hast a more splendid trough and wider sty."

Then we were solemnly warned of our patriotic duty to "know no North and no South." This was
the very impudence of ingratitude; for we had long known no North, and unhappily had known
altogether too much South.

Then we were most plaintively adjured to to comply with the demands of the Slave Power, in
order to save the Union. But how save the Union? Why, by violating the principles on which
the Union was formed, and scouting the objects it was intended to serve.

But lastly came the question, on which the South confidently relied as a decisive argument,
"What could we do with our slaves, provided we emancipated them?" The peculiarity which distinguished
this question from all other interrogatories ever addressed to human beings was this, that
it was asked for the purpose of not being answered. The moment a reply was begun, the ground
was swiftly shifted, and we were overwhelmed with a torrent of words about State Rights and
the duty of minding our own business.

But it is needless to continue the examination of these substitutes and apologies for fact
and reason, especially as their chief characteristic consisted in their having nothing to do
with the practical question before the people. They were thrown out by the interested defenders
of Slavery, North and South, to divert attention from the main issue. In the fine felicity
of their in appropriateness to the actual condition of the struggle between the Free and Slave
States, they were almost a match for that renowned sermon, preached by a metropolitan bishop
before an asylum for the blind, the halt, and the legless, on "The Moral Dangers of Foreign
Travel." But still they were infinitely mischievous, considered as pretences under which Northern
men could skulk from their duties, and as sophistries to lull into a sleepy acquiescence the
consciences of those political adventurers who are always seeking occasions for being tempted
and reasons for being rogues. They were all the more influential from the circumstance that
their show of argument was backed by the solid substance of patronage. These false facts and
bad reasons were the keys to many fat offices. The South had succeeded in instituting a new
political test, namely, that no man is qualified serve the United States unless he is the champion
or the sycophant of the Slave Power. Proscription to the friends of American freedom, honors
and emoluments to the friends of American slavery,--adopt that creed, or you did not belong
to any "healthy" political organization! Now we have heard of civil disabilities for opinion's
sake before. In some countries no Catholics are allowed to hold office, in others no Protestants,
in others no Jews. But it is not, we believe, in Protestant countries that Protestants are
proscribed; it is not in Catholic countries that Catholics are incompetent to serve the State.
It was left for a free country to establish, practically, civil disabilities against freemen,--for
Republican America to proscribe Republicans! Think of it,--that no American, whatever his worth,
talents, or patriotism,--could two years ago serve his country in any branch of its executive
administration, unless he was unfortunate enough to agree with the slaveholders, or base enough
to sham an agreement with them! The test, at Washington, of political orthodoxy was modelled
on the pattern of the test of religious orthodoxy established by Napoleon's minister of police.
"You are not orthodox," he said to a priest "In what," inquired the astonished ecclesiastic,
"have I sinned against orthodoxy?" "You have not pronounced the eulogium of the Emperor, or
proved the righteousness of the conscription."

Now we had been often warned of the danger of sectional parties, on account of their tendency
to break up the Government. The people gave heed to this warning; for here was a sectional
party in possession of the Government. We had been often advised not to form political combinations
on one idea. The people gave heed to this advice; for here was a triumphant political combination,
formed not only on one idea, but that the worst idea that ever animated any political combination.
Here was an association of three hundred and fifty thousand persons, spread over some nine
hundred and fifty thousand square miles of territory, and wielding its whole political power,
engaged in the work of turning the United States into a sort of slave plantation, of which
they were to be overseers. We opposed them by argument, passion, and numerical power; and they
read us long homilies on the beauty of law and order,--order sustained by Border Ruffians,
law which was but the legalizing of criminal instincts,--law and order which, judged by the
code established for Kansas, seemed based on legislative ideas imported from the Fegee Islands.
We opposed them again, and they talked to us about the necessity of preserving the Union;--as
if, in the Free States, the love of the Union had not been a principle and a passion, proof
against many losses, and insensible to many humiliations; as if, with our teachers, disunion
had not been for half a century a stereotyped menace to scare us into compliance with their
rascalities; as if it were not known that only so long as they could wield the powers of the
National Government to accomplish their designs, were they loyal to the Union! We opposed them
again, and they clamored about their Constitutional rights and our Constitutional obligations;
but they adopted for themselves a theory of the Constitution which made each State the judge
of the Constitution in the last resort, while they held us to that view of it which made the
Supreme Court the judge in the last resort. Written constitutions, by a process of interpretation,
are always made to follow the drift of great forces; they are twisted and tortured into conformity
with the views of the power dominant in the State; and our Constitution, originally a charter
of freedom, was converted into an instrument which the slaveholders seemed to possess by right
of squatter sovereignty and eminent domain.

Did any one suppose that we could retard the ever-onward movement of their unscrupulous force
and defiant wills by timely compromises and concessions? Every compromise we made with them
only stimulated their rapacity, heightened their arrogance, increased their demands. Every
concession we made to their insolent threats was only a step downwards to a deeper abasement;
and we parted with our most cherished convictions of duty to purchase, not their gratitude,
but their contempt. Every concession, too, weakened us and strengthened them for the inevitable
struggle, into which the Free States were eventually goaded, to preserve what remained of their
dignity, their honor, and their self-respect. In 1850 we conceded the application of the Wilmot
Proviso; in 1856 we were compelled to concede the principle of the Wilmot Proviso. In 1850
we had no fears that slaves would enter New Mexico; in 1861 we were threatened with a view
of the flag of the rattlesnake floating over Faneuil Hall. If any principle has been established
by events, with the certainty of mathematical demonstration, it is this, that concession to
the Slave Power is the suicide of Freedom. We are purchasing this fact at the expense of arming
five hundred thousand men and spending a thousand millions of dollars. More than this, if any
concessions were to be made, they ought, on all principles of concession, to have been made
to the North. Concessions, historically, are not made by freedom to privilege, but by privilege
to freedom. Thus King John conceded Magna Charta; thus King Charles conceded the Petition of
Right; thus Protestant England conceded Catholic Emancipation to Ireland; thus aristocratic
England conceded the Reform Bill to the English middle class. And had not we, the misgoverned
many, a right to demand from the slaveholders, the governing few, some concessions to our sense
of justice and our prejudices for freedom? Concession indeed! If any class of men hold in their
grasp one of the dear-bought chartered "rights of man," it is infamous to concede it.

  "Make it the darling of your precious eye!
  To lose or give 't away were such perdition
  As nothing else could match."

Considerations so obvious as these could not, by any ingenuity of party-contrivance, be prevented
from forcing themselves by degrees into the minds of the great body of the voters of the Free
States. The common sense, the "large roundabout common sense" of the people, slowly, and somewhat
reluctantly, came up to the demands of the occasion. The sophistries and fallacies of the Northern
defenders of the pretensions of the slave-holding sectional minority were gradually exposed,
and were repudiated in the lump. The conviction was implanted in the minds of the people of
the Free States, that the Slave Power, representing only a thirtieth part of the population
of the Slave States, and a ninth part of the property of the country, was bent on governing
the nation, and on subordinating all principles and all interests to its own. Not being ambitious
of having the United States converted into a Western Congo, with the traffic in "niggers" as
its fundamental idea, the people elected Abraham Lincoln, in a perfectly Constitutional way,
President. As the majority of the House of Representatives, of the Senate, and of the Supreme
Court was still left, by this election, on the side of the "rights of the South," (humorously
so styled,) and as the President could do little to advance Republican principles with all
the other branches of the Government opposed to him, the people naturally imagined that the
slaveholders would acquiesce in their decision.

But such was not the result. The election was in November. The new President could not assume
office until March. The triumphs of the Slave Power had been heretofore owing to its willingness
and readiness to peril everything on each question as it arose, and each event as it occurred.
South Carolina, perhaps the only one of the Slave States that was thoroughly in earnest, at
once "seceded." The "Gulf States" and others followed its example, not so much from any fixed
intention of forming a Southern Confederacy as for the purpose of intimidating the Free States
into compliance with the extreme demands of the South. The Border Slave States were avowedly
neutral between the "belligerents," but indicated their purpose to stand by their "Southern
brethren," in case the Government of the United States attempted to carry out the Constitution
and the laws in the seceded States by the process of "coercion."

The combination was perfect. The heart of the Rebellion was in South Carolina, a State whose
free population was about equal to that of the city of Brooklyn, and whose annual productions
were exceeded by those of Essex County, in the State of Massachusetts. Around this centre was
congregated as base a set of politicians as ever disgraced human nature. A conspiracy was formed
to compel a first-class power, representing thirty millions of people, to submit to the dictation
of about three hundred thousand of its citizens. The conspirators did not dream of failure.
They were sure, as they thought, of the Gulf States and of the Border States, of the whole
Slave Power, in fact. They also felt sure of that large minority in the Free States which had
formerly acted with them, and obeyed their most humiliating behests. They therefore entered
the Congress of the nation with a confident front, knowing that President Buchanan and the
majority of his Cabinet were practically on their side. Before Mr. Lincoln could be inaugurated
they imagined they could accomplish all their designs, and make the Government of the United
States a Pro-Slavery power in the eyes of all the nations of the world. Mr. Calhoun's paradoxes
had heretofore been indorsed only by majorities in the national legislature and by the Supreme
Court. What a victory it would be, if, by threatening rebellion, they could induce the people
of the United States to incorporate those paradoxes into the fundamental law of the nation,
dominant over both Congress and the Court! All their previous "compromises" had been merely
legislative compromises, which, as their cause advanced, they had themselves annulled. They
now seized the occasion, when the "people" had risen against them, to compel the people to
sanction their most extreme demands. They determined to convert defeat, sustained at the polls,
into a victory which would have far transcended any victory they might have gained by electing
their candidate, Breckinridge, as President.

A portion of the Republicans, seeing clearly the force arrayed against them, and disbelieving
that the population of the Free States would be willing, en masse, to sustain the cause of
free labor by force of arms, tried to avert the blow by proposing a new compromise. Mr. Seward,
the calmest, most moderate, and most obnoxious statesman of the Republican party, offered to
divide the existing territories of the United States by the Missouri line, all south of which
should be open to slave labor. As he at the same time stated that by natural laws the South
could obtain no material advantage by his seeming concession, the concession only made him
enemies among the uncompromising champions of the Wilmot Proviso. The conspirators demanded
that the Missouri line should be the boundary, not only between the territories which the United
States then possessed, but between the territories they might hereafter acquire. As the country
north of the Missouri line was held by powerful European States which it would be madness to
offend, and as the country south of that line was held by feeble States which it would be easy
to conquer, no Northern or Western statesman could vote for such a measure without proving
himself a rogue or a simpleton. Hence all measures of "compromise" necessarily failed during
the last days of the administration of James Buchanan.

It is plain, that, when Mr. Lincoln--after having escaped assassination from the "Chivalry"
of Maryland, and after having been subjected to a virulence of invective such as no other President
had incurred--arrived at Washington, his mind was utterly unaffected by the illusions of passion.
His Inaugural Message was eminently moderate. The Slave Power, having failed to delude or bully
Congress, or to intimidate the people,--having failed to murder the elected President on his
way to the capital,--was at wits' end. It thought it could still rely on its Northern supporters,
as James II. of England thought he could rely on the Church of England. While the nation, therefore,
was busy in expedients to call back the seceded States to their allegiance, the latter suddenly
bombarded Fort Sumter, trampled on the American flag, threatened to wave the rattlesnake rag
over Faneuil Hall, and to make the Yankees "smell Southern powder and feel Southern steel."
All this was done with the idea that the Northern "Democracy" would rally to the support of
their "Southern brethren." The result proved that the South was, in the words of Mr. Davis's
last and most melancholy Message, the victim of "misplaced confidence" in its Northern "associates."
The moment a gun was fired, the honest Democratic voters of the North were even more furious
than the Republican voters; the leaders, including those who had been the obedient servants
of Slavery, were ravenous for commands in the great army which was to "coerce" and "subjugate"
the South; and the whole organization of the "Democratic party" of the North melted away at
once in the fierce fires of a reawakened patriotism. The slaveholders ventured everything on
their last stake, and lost. A North, for the first time, sprang into being; and it issued,
like Minerva from the brain of Jove, full-armed. The much-vaunted engineer, Beauregard, was
"hoist with his own petard."

Now that the slaveholders have been so foolish as to appeal to physical force, abandoning their
vantage-ground of political influence, they must be not only politically overthrown, but physically
humiliated. Their arrogant sense of superiority must be beaten out of them by main force. The
feeling with which every Texan and Arkansas bully and assassin regarded a Northern mechanic--a
feeling akin to that with which the old Norman robber looked on the sturdy Saxon laborer--must
be changed, by showing the bully that his bowie-knife is dangerous only to peaceful, and is
imbecile before armed citizens. The Southerner has appealed to force, and force he should have,
until, by the laws of force, he is not only beaten, but compelled to admit the humiliating
fact. That he is not disposed "to die in the last ditch," that he has none of the practical
heroism of desperation, is proved by the actual results of battles. When defeated, and his
means of escape are such as only desperation can surmount, he quickly surrenders, and is even
disposed to take the oath of allegiance. The martial virtues of the common European soldier
he has displayed in exceedingly scanty measure in the present conflict. He has relied on engineers;
and the moment his fortresses are turned or stormed, he retreats or becomes a prisoner of war.
Let Mr. Davis's Message to the Confederate Congress, and his order suspending Pillow and Floyd,
testify to this unquestionable statement. Even if we grant martial intrepidity to the members
of the Slavocracy, the present war proves that the system of Slavery is not one which develops
martial virtues among the "free whites" it has cajoled or forced into its hateful service.
Indeed, the armies of Jefferson Davis are weak on the same principle on which the slave-system
is weak. Everything depends on the intelligence and courage of the commanders, and the moment
these fail the soldiers become a mere mob.

American Slavery, by the laws which control its existence, first rose from a local power, dominant
in certain States, to a national power, assuming to dominate over the United States. At the
first faint fact which indicated the intention of the Free States to check its progress and
overturn its insolent dominion, it rebelled. The rebellion now promises to be a failure; but
it will cost the Free States the arming of half a million of men and the spending of a thousand
millions of dollars to make it a failure. Can we afford to trifle with the cause which produced
it? We note that some of the representatives of the loyal Slave States in Congress are furious
to hang individual Rebels, but at the same time are anxious to surround the system those Rebels
represent with new guaranties. When they speak of Jeff Davis and his crew, their feeling is
as fierce as that of Tilly and Pappenheim towards the Protestants of Germany. They would burn,
destroy, confiscate, and kill without any mercy, and without any regard to the laws of civilized
war; but when they come to speak of Slavery, their whole tone is changed. They wish us to do
everything barbarous and inhuman, provided we do not go to the last extent of barbarity and
inhumanity, which, according to their notions, is, to inaugurate a system of freedom, equality,
and justice. Provided the negro is held in bondage and denied the rights of human nature, they
are willing that any severity should be exercised towards his rebellious master. Now we have
no revengeful feeling towards the master at all. We think that he is a victim as well as an
oppressor. We wish to emancipate the master as well as the slave, and we think that thousands
of masters are persons who merely submit to the conditions of labor established in their respective
localities. Our opposition is directed, not against Jefferson Davis, but against the system
whose cumulative corruptions and enormities Jefferson Davis very fairly represents. As an individual,
Jefferson Davis is not worse than many people whom a general amnesty would preserve in their
persons and property. To hang him, and at the same time guaranty Slavery, would be like destroying
a plant by a vain attempt to kill its most poisonous blossom. Our opposition is not to the
blossom, but to the root.

We admit that to strike at the root is a very difficult operation. In the present condition
of the country it may present obstacles which will practically prove insuperable. But it is
plain that we can strike lower than the blossom; and it is also plain that we must, as practical
men, devise some method by which the existence of the Slavocracy as a political power may be
annihilated. The President of the United States has lately recommended that Congress offer
the cooperation and financial aid of the whole nation in a peaceful effort to abolish Slavery,--with
a significant hint, that, unless the loyal Slave States accept the proposition, the necessities
of the war may dictate severer measures. Emancipation is the policy of the Government, and
will soon be the determination of the people. Whether it shall be gradual or immediate depends
altogether on the slaveholders themselves. The prolongation of the war for a year, and the
operation of the internal tax bill, will convert all the voters of the Free States, whether
Republicans or Democrats, into practical Emancipationists. The tax bill alone will teach the
people important lessons which no politicians can gainsay. Every person who buys a piece of
broadcloth or calico,--every person who takes a cup of tea or coffee,--every person who lives
from day to day on the energy he thinks he derives from patent medicines, or beer, or whiskey,--every
person who signs a note, or draws a bill of exchange, or sends a telegraphic despatch, or advertises
in a newspaper, or makes a will, or "raises" anything, or manufactures anything, will naturally
inquire why he or she is compelled to submit to an irritating as well as an onerous tax. The
only answer that can possibly be returned is this,-- that all these vexatious burdens are necessary
because a comparatively few persons out of an immense population have chosen to get up a civil
war in order to protect and foster their slave-property, and the political power it confers.
As this property is but a small fraction of the whole property of the country, and as its owners
are not a hundredth part of the population of the country, does any sane man doubt that the
slave-property will be relentlessly confiscated in order that the Slave Power may be forever
crushed?

There are, we know, persons in the Free States who pretend to believe that the war will leave
Slavery where the war found it,--that our half a million of soldiers have gone South on a sort
of military picnic, and will return in a cordial mood towards their Southern brethren in arms,--and
that there is no real depth and earnestness of purpose in the Free States. Though one year
has done the ordinary work of a century in effecting or confirming changes in the ideas and
sentiments of the people, these persons still sagely rely on the party-phrases current some
eighteen months ago to reconstruct the Union on the old basis of the domination of the Slave
Power, through the combination of a divided North with a united South. By the theory of these
persons, there is something peculiarly sacred in property in men, distinguishing it from the
more vulgar form of property in things; and though the cost of putting down the Rebellion will
nearly equal the value of the Southern slaves, considered as chattels, they suppose that the
owners of property in things will cheerfully submit to be taxed for a thousand millions,--a
fourth of the almost fabulous debt of England,--without any irritation against the chivalric
owners of property in men, whose pride, caprice, and insubordination have made the taxation
necessary. Such may possibly be the fact, but as sane men we cannot but disbelieve it. Our
conviction is, that, whether the war is ended in three months or in twelve months, the Slave
Power is sure to be undermined or overthrown.

The sooner the war is ended, the more favorable will be the terms granted to the Slavocracy;
but no terms will be granted which do not look to its extinction. The slaveholders are impelled
by their system to complete victory or utter ruin. If they obey the laws of their system, they
have, from present appearances, nothing but defeat, beggary, and despair to expect. If they
violate the laws of their system, they must take their place in some one of the numerous degrees,
orders, and ranks of the Abolitionists. It will be well for them, if the wilfulness developed
by their miserable system gives way to the plain reason and logic of facts and events. It will
be well for them, if they submit to a necessity, not only inherent in the inevitable operation
of divine laws, but propelled by half a million of men in arms. Be it that God is on the side
of the heaviest column,--there can be no doubt that the heaviest column is now the column of
Freedom.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE VOLUNTEER.

  "At dawn," he said, "I bid them all farewell,
    To go where bugles call and rifles gleam."
  And with the restless thought asleep he fell,
    And glided into dream.

  A great hot plain from sea to mountain spread,--
    Through it a level river slowly drawn.
  He moved with a vast crowd, and at its head
    Streamed banners like the dawn.

  There came a blinding flash, a deafening roar,
    And dissonant cries of triumph and dismay;
  Blood trickled down the river's reedy shore,
    And with the dead he lay.

  The morn broke in upon his solemn dream;
    And still, with steady pulse and deepening eye,
  "Where bugles call," he said, "and rifles gleam,
    I follow, though I die!"

  Wise youth! By few is glory's wreath attained;
    But death or late or soon awaiteth all.
  To fight in Freedom's cause is something gained,--
    And nothing lost, to fall.

SPEECH OF HON'BLE PRESERVED DOE IN SECRET CAUCUS.

To the Editors of the ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

Jaalam, 12th April, 1862.

GENTLEMEN,--As I cannot but hope that the ultimate, if not speedy, success of the national
arms is now sufficiently ascertained, sure as I am of the righteousness of our cause and its
consequent claim on the blessing of God, (for I would not show a faith inferiour to that of
the pagan historian with his Facile evenit quod Dis cordi est,) it seems to me a suitable occasion
to withdraw our minds a moment from the confusing din of battle to objects of peaceful and
permanent interest. Let us not neglect the monuments of preterite history because what shall
be history is so diligently making under our eyes. Cras ingens iterabimus aequor; to-morrow
will be time enough for that stormy sea; to-day let me engage the attention of your readers
with the Runick inscription to whose fortunate discovery I have heretofore alluded. Well may
we say with the poet, Multa renascuntur quae jam cecidere. And I would premise, that, although
I can no longer resist the evidence of my own senses from the stone before me to the ante-Columbian
discovery of this continent by the Northmen, gens inclytissima, as they are called in Palermitan
inscription, written fortunately in a less debatable character than that which I am about to
decypher, yet I would by no means be understood as wishing to vilipend the merits of the great
Genoese, whose name will never be forgotten so long as the inspiring strains of "Hail Columbia"
shall continue to be heard. Though he must be stripped also of whatever praise may belong to
the experiment of the egg, which I find proverbially attributed by Castilian authours to a
certain Juanito or Jack, (perhaps an offshoot of our giant-killing my thus,) his name will
still remain one of the most illustrious of modern times. But the impartial historian owes
a duty likewise to obscure merit, and my solicitude to render a tardy justice is perhaps quickened
by my having known those who, had their own field of labour been less secluded, might have
found a readier acceptance with the reading publick. I could give an example, but I forbear:
forsitan nostris ex ossibus oritur ultor.

Touching Runick inscriptions, I find that they may be classed under three general heads: 1°.
Those which are understood by the Danish Royal Society of Northern Antiquaries, and Professor
Rafn, their Secretary; 2°. Those which are comprehensible only by Mr Rafn; and 3º. Those which
neither the Society, Mr Rafn, nor anybody else can be said in any definite sense to understand,
and which accordingly offer peculiar temptations to enucleating sagacity. These last are naturally
deemed the most valuable by intelligent antiquaries, and to this class the stone now in my
possession fortunately belongs. Such give a picturesque variety to ancient events, because
susceptible oftentimes of as many interpretations as there are individual archaeologists; and
since facts are only the pulp in which the Idea or event-seed is softly imbedded till it ripen,
it is of little consequence what colour or flavour we attribute to them, provided it be agreeable.
Availing myself of the obliging assistance of Mr. Arphaxad Bowers, an ingenious photographick
artist, whose house-on-wheels has now stood for three years on our Meeting-House Green, with
the somewhat contradictory inscription,--"Our motto is onward,"--I have sent accurate copies
of my treasure to many learned men and societies, both native and European. I may hereafter
communicate their different and (me judice) equally erroneous solutions. I solicit also, Messrs.
Editors, your own acceptance of the copy herewith inclosed. I need only premise further, that
the stone itself is a goodly block of metamorphick sandstone, and that the Runes resemble very
nearly the ornithichnites or fossil bird-tracks of Dr. Hitchcock, but with less regularity
or apparent design than is displayed by those remarkable geological monuments. These are rather
the non bene junctarum discordia semina rerum. Resolved to leave no door open to cavil, I first
of all attempted the elucidation of this remarkable example of lithick literature by the ordinary
modes, but with no adequate return for my labour. I then considered myself amply justified
in resorting to that heroick treatment the felicity of which, as applied by the great Bentley
to Milton, had long ago enlisted my admiration. Indeed, I had already made up my mind, that,
in case good-fortune should throw any such invaluable record in my way, I would proceed with
it in the following simple and satisfactory method. After a cursory examination, merely sufficing
for an approximative estimate of its length, I would write down a hypothetical inscription
based upon antecedent probabilities, and then proceed to extract from the characters engraven
on the stone a meaning as nearly as possible conformed to this a priori product of my own ingenuity.
The result more than justified my hopes, inasmuch as the two inscriptions were made without
any great violence to tally in all essential particulars. I then proceeded, not without some
anxiety, to my second test, which was, to read the Runick letters diagonally, and again with
the same success. With an excitement pardonable under the circumstances, yet tempered with
thankful humility, I now applied my last and severest trial, my experimentum crucis. I turned
the stone, now doubly precious in my eyes, with scrupulous exactness upside down. The physical
exertion so far displaced my spectacles as to derange for a moment the focus of vision. I confess
that it was with some tremulousness that I readjusted them upon my nose, and prepared my mind
to bear with calmness any disappointment that might ensue. But, O albo dies notanda lapillo!
what was my delight to find that the change of position had effected none in the sense of the
writing, even by so much as a single letter! I was now, and justly, as I think, satisfied of
the conscientious exactness of my interpretation. It is as follows:--

HERE

BJARNA GRÍMÓLFSSON

FIRST DRANK CLOUD-BROTHER

THROUGH CHILD-OF-LAND-AND-WATER:

that is, drew smoke through a reed stem. In other words, we have here a record of the first
smoking of the herb Nicotiana Tabacum by a European on this continent. The probable results
of this discovery are so vast as to baffle conjecture. If it be objected, that the smoking
of a pipe would hardly justify the setting up of a memorial stone, I answer, that even now
the Moquis Indian, ere he takes his first whiff, bows reverently toward the four quarters of
the sky in succession, and that the loftiest monuments have been reared to perpetuate fame,
which is the dream of the shadow of smoke. The Saga, it will be remembered, leaves this Bjarna
to a fate something like that of Sir Humphrey Gilbert, on board a sinking ship in the "wormy
sea," having generously given up his place in the boat to a certain Icelander. It is doubly
pleasant, therefore, to meet with this proof that the brave old man arrived safely in Vinland,
and that his declining years were cheered by the respectful attentions of the dusky denizens
of our then uninvaded forests. Most of all was I gratified, however, in thus linking forever
the name of my native town with one of the most momentous occurrences of modern times. Hitherto
Jaalam, though in soil, climate, and geographical position as highly qualified to be the theatre
of remarkable historical incidents as any spot on the earth's surface, has been, if I may say
it without seeming to question the wisdom of Providence, almost maliciously neglected, as it
might appear, by occurrences of world-wide interest in want of a situation. And in matters
of this nature it must be confessed that adequate events are as necessary as the vates sacer
to record them. Jaalam stood always modestly ready, but circumstances made no fitting response
to her generous intentions. Now, however, she assumes her place on the historick roll. I have
hitherto been a zealous opponent of the Circean herb, but I shall now reexamine the question
without bias.

I am aware that the Rev'd Jonas Tutchel, in a recent communication to the Bogus Four Corners
Weekly Meridian, has endeavoured to show that this is the sepulchral inscription of Thorwald
Eriksson, who, as is well known, was slain in Vinland by the natives. But I think he has been
misled by a preconceived theory, and cannot but feel that he has thus made an ungracious return
for my allowing him to inspect the stone with the aid of my own glasses (he having by accident
left his at home) and in my own study. The heathen ancients might have instructed this Christian
minister in the rites of hospitality; but much is to be pardoned to the spirit of self-love.
He must indeed be ingenious who can make out the words hèr hrilir from any characters in the
inscription in question, which, whatever else it may be, is certainly not mortuary. And even
should the reverend gentleman succeed in persuading some fantastical wits of the soundness
of his views, I do not see what useful end he will have gained. For if the English Courts of
Law hold the testimony of grave-stones from the burial-grounds of Protestant dissenters to
be questionable, even where it is essential in proving a descent, I cannot conceive that the
epitaphial assertions of heathens should be esteemed of more authority by any man of orthodox
sentiments.

At this moment, happening to cast my eyes upon the stone, on which a transverse light from
my southern window brings out the characters with singular distinctness, another interpretation
has occurred to me, promising even more interesting results. I hasten to close my letter in
order to follow at once the clue thus providentially suggested.

I inclose, as usual, a contribution from Mr. Biglow, and remain, Gentlemen, with esteem and
respect,

Your Ob't Humble Servant,

HOMER WILBUR. A.M.

  I thank ye, my friens, for the warmth o' your greetin':
  Ther' 's few airthly blessins but wut's vain an' fleetin';
  But ef ther' is one thet hain't no cracks an' flaws,
  An' is wuth goin' in for, it's pop'lar applause;
  It sends up the sperits ez lively ez rockets,
  An' I feel it--wal, down to the eend o' my pockets.
  Jes' lovin' the people is Canaan in view,
  But it's Canaan paid quarterly t' hev 'em love you;
  It's a blessin' thet's breakin' out ollus in fresh spots;
  It's a-follerin' Moses 'thout losin' the flesh-pots.

  But, Gennlemen,'scuse me, I ain't sech a raw cus
  Ez to go luggin' ellerkence into a caucus,--
  Thet is, into one where the call comprehens
  Nut the People in person, but on'y their friens;
  I'm so kin' o' used to convincin' the masses
  Of th' edvantage o' bein' self-governin' asses,
  I forgut thet we 're all o' the sort thet pull wires
  An' arrange for the public their wants an' desires,
  An' thet wut we hed met for wuz jes' to agree
  Wut the People's opinions in futur' should be.

  But to come to the nuh, we've ben all disappinted,
  An' our leadin' idees are a kind o' disjinted,--
  Though, fur ez the nateral man could discern,
  Things ough' to ha' took most an oppersite turn.
  But The'ry is jes' like a train on the rail,
  Thet, weather or no, puts her thru without fail,
  While Fac's the ole stage thet gits sloughed in the ruts,
  An' hez to allow for your darned efs an' buts,
  An' so, nut intendin' no pers'nal reflections,
  They don't--don't nut allus, thet is--make connections:
  Sometimes, when it really doos seem thet they'd oughter
  Combine jest ez kindly ez new rum an' water,
  Both 'll be jest ez sot in their ways ez a bagnet,
  Ez otherwise-minded ez th' eends of a magnet,
  An' folks like you 'n me, thet ain't ept to be sold,
  Git somehow or 'nother left out in the cold.

  I expected 'fore this, 'thout no gret of a row,
  Jeff D. would ha' ben where A. Lincoln is now,
  With Taney to say 't wuz all legle an' fair,
  An' a jury o' Deemocrats ready to swear
  Thet the ingin o' State gut throwed into the ditch
  By the fault o' the North in misplacin' the switch.
  Things wuz ripenin' fust-rate with Buchanan to nuss 'em;
  But the People they wouldn't be Mexicans, cuss 'em!
  Ain't the safeguards o' freedom upsot, 'z you may say,
  Ef the right o' rev'lution is took clean away?
  An' doosn't the right primy-fashy include
  The bein' entitled to nut be subdued?
  The fact is, we'd gone for the Union so strong,
  When Union meant South ollus right an' North wrong,
  Thet the people gut fooled into thinkin' it might
  Worry on middlin' wal with the North in the right.
  We might ha' ben now jest ez prosp'rous ez France,
  Where politikle enterprise hez a fair chance,
  An' the people is heppy an' proud et this hour,
  Long ez they hev the votes, to let Nap hev the power;
  But our folks they went an' believed wut we'd told 'em,
  An', the flag once insulted, no mortle could hold 'em.
  'T wuz pervokin' jest when we wuz cert'in to win,--
  An' I, for one, wunt trust the masses agin:
  For a people thet knows much ain't fit to be free
  In the self-cockin', back-action style o' J.D.

  I can't believe now but wut half on't is lies;
  For who'd thought the North wuz a-goin' to rise,
  Or take the pervokin'est kin' of a stump,
  'Thout't wuz sunthin' ez pressin' ez Gabr'el's las' trump?
  Or who'd ha' supposed, arter sech swell an' bluster
  'Bout the lick-ary-ten-on-ye fighters they'd muster,
  Raised by hand on briled lightnin', ez op'lent 'z you please
  In a primitive furrest o' femmily-trees,
  Who'd ha' thought thet them Southerners ever 'ud show
  Starns with pedigrees to 'em like theirn to the foe,
  Or, when the vamosin' come, ever to find
  Nat'ral masters in front an' mean white folks behind?
  By ginger, ef I'd ha' known half I know now,
  When I wuz to Congress, I wouldn't, I swow,
  Hev let 'em cair on so high-minded an' sarsy,
  'Thout some show o' wut you may call vicy-varsy.
  To be sure, we wuz under a contrac' jes' then
  To be dreffle forbearin' towards Southun men;
  We hed to go sheers in preservin' the bellance:
  An' ez they seemed to feel they wuz wastin' their tellents
  'Thout some un to kick, 't warn't more 'n proper, you know,
  Each should funnish his part; an' sence they found the toe,
  An' we wuzn't cherubs--wal, we found the buffer,
  For fear thet the Compromise System should suffer.

  I wun't say the plan hed n't onpleasant featurs,--
  For men are perverse an' onreasonin' creaturs,
  An' forgit thet in this life 't ain't likely to heppen
  Their own privit fancy should oltus be cappen,--
  But it worked jest ez smooth ez the key of a safe,
  An' the gret Union bearins played free from all chafe.
  They warn't hard to suit, ef they hed their own way;
  An' we (thet is, some on us) made the thing pay:
  'T wuz a fair give-an'-take out of Uncle Sam's heap;
  Ef they took wut warn't theirn, wut we give come ez cheap;
  The elect gut the offices down to tidewaiter,
  The people took skinnin' ez mild ez a tater,
  Seemed to choose who they wanted tu, footed the bills,
  An' felt kind o' 'z though they wuz havin' their wills,
  Which kep' 'em ez harmless an' clerfle ez crickets,
  While all we invested wuz names on the tickets:
  Wal, ther' 's nothin' for folks fond o' lib'ral consumption,
  Free o' charge, like democ'acy tempered with gumption!

  Now warn't thet a system wuth pains in presarvin',
  Where the people found jints an' their friens done the carvin',--
  Where the many done all o' their thinkin' by proxy,
  An' were proud on't ez long ez't wuz christened Democ'cy,--
  Where the few let us sap all o' Freedom's foundations,
  Ef you called it reformin' with prudence an' patience,
  An' were willin' Jeff's snake-egg should hetch with the rest,
  Ef you writ "Constitootional" over the nest?
  But it's all out o' kilter, ('t wuz too good to last,)
  An' all jes' by J.D.'s perceedin' too fast;
  Ef he'd on'y hung on for a month or two more,
  We'd ha' gut things fixed nicer 'n they hed ben before:
  Afore he drawed off an' lef all in confusion,
  We wuz safely intrenched in the ole Constitootion,
  With an outlyin', heavy-gun, casemated fort
  To rake all assailants,--I mean th' S.J. Court.
  Now I never 'II acknowledge (nut ef you should skin me)
  'T wuz wise to abandon sech works to the in'my,
  An' let him fin' out thet wut scared him so long,
  Our whole line of argyments, lookin' so strong,
  All our Scriptur' an' law, every the'ry an' fac',
  Wuz Quaker-guns daubed with Pro-slavery black.
  Why, ef the Republicans ever should git
  Andy Johnson or some one to lend 'em the wit
  An' the spunk jes' to mount Constitootion an' Court
  With Columbiad guns, your real ekle-rights sort,
  Or drill out the spike from the ole Declaration
  Thet can kerry a solid shot clearn roun' creation,
  We'd better take maysures for shettin' up shop,
  An' put off our stock by a vendoo or swop.

  But they wun't never dare tu; you 'll see 'em in Edom
  'Fore they ventur' to go where their doctrines 'ud lead 'em:
  They 've ben takin' our princerples up ez we dropt 'em,
  An' thought it wuz terrible 'cute to adopt 'em;
  But they'll fin' out 'fore long thet their hope 's ben deceivin' 'em,
  An' thet princerples ain't o' no good, ef you b'lieve in 'em;
  It makes 'em tu stiff for a party to use,
  Where they'd ough' to be easy 'z an ole pair o' shoes.
  Ef we say 'n our pletform thet all men are brothers,
  We don't mean thet some folks ain't more so 'n some others;
  An' it's wal understood thet we make a selection,
  An' thet brotherhood kin' o' subsides arter 'lection.
  The fust thing for sound politicians to larn is,
  Thet Truth, to dror kindly in all sorts o' harness,
  Mus' be kep' in the abstract,--for, 'come to apply it,
  You're ept to hurt some folks's interists by it.
  Wal, these 'ere Republicans (some on 'em) acs
  Ez though gineral mexims 'ud suit speshle facs;
  An' there's where we 'll nick 'em, there 's where they 'll be lost:
  For applyin' your princerple's wut makes it cost,
  An' folks don't want Fourth o' July t' interfere
  With the business-consarns o' the rest o' the year,
  No more 'n they want Sunday to pry an' to peek
  Into wut they are doin' the rest o' the week.

  A ginooine statesman should be on his guard,
  Ef he must hev beliefs, nut to b'lieve 'em tu hard;
  For, ez sure ez he doos, he'll be blartin' 'em out
  'Thout regardin' the natur' o' man more 'n a spout,
  Nor it don't ask much gumption to pick out a flaw
  In a party whose leaders are loose in the jaw:
  An' so in our own case I ventur' to hint
  Thet we'd better nut air our perceedins in print,
  Nor pass resserlootions ez long ez your arm
  Thet may, ez things heppen to turn, do us harm;
  For when you've done all your real meanin' to smother,
  The darned things'll up an' mean sunthin' or 'nother.
  Jeff'son prob'ly meant wal with his "born free an' ekle,"
  But it's turned out a real crooked stick in the sekle;
  It's taken full eighty-odd year--don't you see?--
  From the pop'lar belief to root out thet idee,
  An', arter all, sprouts on 't keep on buddin' forth
  In the nat'lly onprincipled mind o' the North.
  No, never say nothin' without you're compelled tu,
  An' then don't say nothin' thet you can be held tu,
  Nor don't leave no friction-idees layin' loose
  For the ign'ant to put to incend'ary use.

  You know I'm a feller thet keeps a skinned eye
  On the leetle events thet go skurryin' by,
  Coz it's of'ner by them than by gret ones you'll see
  Wut the p'litickle weather is likely to be.
  Now I don't think the South's more 'n begun to be licked,
  But I du think, ez Jeff says, the wind-bag's gut pricked;
  It'll blow for a spell an' keep puffin' an' wheezin',
  The tighter our army an' navy keep squeezin',--
  For they can't help spread-eaglein' long 'z ther's a mouth
  To blow Enfield's Speaker thru lef' at the South.
  But it's high time for us to be settin' our faces
  Towards reconstructin' the national basis,
  With an eye to beginnin' agin on the jolly ticks
  We used to chalk up 'hind the back-door o' politics;
  An' the fus' thing's to save wut of Slav'ry ther's lef'
  Arter this (I mus' call it) imprudence o' Jeff:
  For a real good Abuse, with its roots fur an' wide,
  Is the kin' o' thing I like to hev on my side;
  A Scriptur' name makes it ez sweet ez a rose,
  An' it's tougher the older an' uglier it grows--
  (I ain't speakin' now o' the righteousness of it,
  But the p'litickle purchase it gives, an' the profit).

  Things looks pooty squally, it must be allowed,
  An' I don't see much signs of a bow in the cloud:
  Ther' 's too many Decmocrats--leaders, wut's wuss--
  Thet go for the Union 'thout carin' a cuss
  Ef it helps ary party thet ever wuz heard on,
  So our eagle ain't made a split Austrian bird on.
  But ther' 's still some conservative signs to be found
  Thet shows the gret heart o' the People is sound:
  (Excuse me for usin' a stump-phrase agin,
  But, once in the way on 't, they will stick like sin:)
  There's Phillips, for instance, hez jes' ketched a Tartar
  In the Law-'n'-Order Party of ole Cincinnater;
  An' the Compromise System ain't gone out o' reach,
  Long 'z you keep the right limits on freedom o' speech;
  'T warn't none too late, neither, to put on the gag,
  For he's dangerous now he goes in for the flag:
  Nut thet I altogether approve o' bad eggs,
  They're mos' gin'lly argymunt on its las' legs,--
  An' their logic is ept to be tu indiscriminate,
  Nor don't ollus wait the right objecs to 'liminate;
  But there is a variety on 'em, you 'll find,
  Jest ez usefie an' more, besides bein' refined,--
  I mean o' the sort thet are laid by the dictionary,
  Sech ez sophisms an' cant thet'll kerry conviction ary
  Way thet you want to the right class o' men,
  An' are staler than all't ever come from a hen:
  "Disunion" done wal till our resh Soutlun friends
  Took the savor all out on't for national ends;
  But I guess "Abolition" 'll work a spell yit,
  When the war's done, an' so will "Forgive-an'-forgit."
  Times mus' be pooty thoroughly out o' all jint,
  Ef we can't make a good constitootional pint;
  An' the good time 'll come to be grindin' our exes,
  When the war goes to seed in the nettle o' texes:
  Ef Jon'than don't squirm, with sech helps to assist him,
  I give up my faith in the free-suffrage system;
  Democ'cy wun't be nut a mite interestin',
  Nor p'litikle capital much wuth investin';
  An' my notion is, to keep dark an' lay low
  Till we see the right minute to put in our blow.--

  But I've talked longer now 'n I hed any idee,
  An' ther's others you want to hear more 'n you du me;
  So I'll set down an' give thet 'ere bottle a skrimmage,
  For I've spoke till I'm dry ez a real graven image.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

Record of an Obscure Man. Tragedy of Errors, Parts I. and II. Boston: Ticknor and Fields. 1861,
1862.

Among the marked literary productions long to be associated with our present struggle--among
them, yet not of them--are the volumes whose titles we have quoted. They differ from the recent
electric messages of Holmes, Whittier, and Mrs. Howe, in not being obvious results of vivid
events. "Bread and the Newspaper," "The Song of the Negro Boatmen," and "Our Orders" will reproduce
for another generation the fervid feelings of to-day. But the pathetic warnings exquisitely
breathed in the writings before us will then come to their place as a deep and tender prelude
to the voices heard in this passing tragedy.

The "Record of an Obscure Man" is the modest introduction to a dramatic poem of singular pathos
and beauty. A New-Englander of culture and sensibility, naturalized at the South, is supposed
to communicate the results of his study and observation of that outcast race which has been
the easy contempt of ignorance in both sections of the country. Our instructor has not only
a clear judgment Of the value of different testimonies, and the scholarly instinct of arrangement
and classification, but also that divine gift of sympathy, which alone, in this world given
for our observation, can tell us what to observe. The illustrations of the negro's character,
and the answers to vulgar depreciation of his tendencies and capacities, are given with the
simple directness of real comprehension. It is the privilege of one acquainted in no common
degree with languages and their history to expose that dreary joke of the dialect of the oppressed,
which superficial people have so long found funny or contemptible. The simplicity and earnestness
which give dignity to any phraseology come from the humanity behind it. We are well reminded
that divergences from the common use of language, never held to degrade the meaning in Milton
or Shakespeare, need not render thought despicable when the negro uses identical forms. If
he calls a leopard a "libbard," he only imitates the most sublime of English poets; and the
first word of his petition, "Gib us this day our daily bread," is pronounced as it rose from
the lips of Luther. The highest truths the faith of man may reach are symbolized more definitely,
and often more picturesquely, by the warm imagination of the African than by the cultivated
genius of the Caucasian. Also it is shown how the laziness and ferocity with which the negro
is sometimes charged may be more than matched in the history of his assumed superior. Yet,
while acknowledging how well-considered is the matter of this introductory volume, we regret
what seems to be an imperfection in the form in which it is presented. There is too much story,
or too little,--too little to command the assistance of fiction, too much to prevent a feeling
of disappointment that romance is attempted at all. The concluding autobiography of the friend
of Colvil is hardly consistent with his character as previously suggested; it seems unnecessary
to the author's purpose, and is not drawn with the minuteness or power which might justify
its introduction. We notice this circumstance as explaining why this Introduction may possibly
fail of a popularity more extended than that which its tenderness of thought and style at once
claimed from the best readers.

The "Tragedy of Errors" presents, with the vivid idealization of art, some of the results of
American Slavery. Travellers, novelists, ethnologists have spoken with various ability of the
laborers of the South; and now the poet breaks through the hard monotony of their external
lives, and lends the plasticity of a cultivated mind to take impress of feeling to which the
gift of utterance is denied. And it is often only through the imagination of another that the
human bosom can be delivered "of that perilous stuff which weighs upon the heart." For it is
a very common error to estimate mental activity by a command of the arts of expression; whereas,
at its best estate, speech is an imperfect sign of perception, and one which without special
cultivation must be wholly inadequate. Thus it will be seen that an employment of the dialect
and limited vocabulary of the negro would be obviously unsuitable to the purpose of the poem;
and these have been wisely discarded. In doing this, however, the common license of dramatists
is not exceeded; and the critical censure we have read about "the extravagant idealization
of the negro" merely amounts to saying that the writer has been bold enough to stem the current
of traditional opinion, and find a poetic view of humanity at the present time and in its most
despised portion. The end of dramatic writing is not to reproduce Nature, but to idealize it;
a literal copying of the same, as everybody knows, is the merit of the photographer, not of
the artist. Again, it should be remembered that the highly wrought characters among the slaves
are whites, or whites slightly tinged with African blood. With the commonest allowance for
the exigencies of poetic presentation, we find no individual character unnatural or improbable;
though the particular grouping of these characters is necessarily improbable. For grace of
position and arrangement every dramatist must claim. If the poet will but take observations
from real persons, however widely scattered, discretion may be exercised in the conjunction
of those persons, and in the sequence of incidents by which they are affected. An aesthetic
invention may be as natural as a mechanical one, although the materials for each are collected
from a wide surface, and placed in new relations. Thus much we say as expressing dissent from
objections which have been hastily made to this poem.

Of the plot of the "Tragedy of Errors" we have only space to say that the writer has cut a
channel for very delicate verses through the heart of a Southern plantation. Here, at length,
seems to be one of those thoroughly national subjects for which critics have long been clamorous.
The deepest passion is expressed without touching the tawdry properties of the "intense" school
of poetry. The language passes from the ease of perfect simplicity to the conciseness of power,
while the relation of emotion to character is admirably preserved. The moral--which, let us
observe in passing, is decently covered with artistic beauty--relates, not to the most obvious,
but to the most dangerous mischiefs of Slavery. Indeed, the story is only saved from being
too painful by a fine appreciation of the medicinal quality of all wretchedness that the writer
everywhere displays. In the First Part, the nice intelligence shown in the rough contrast between
Hermann and Stanley, and in the finished contrast between Alice and Helen, will claim the reader's
attention. The sketches of American life and tendencies, both Northern and Southern, are given
with discrimination and truth. The dying scene, which closes the First Part, seems to us nobly
wrought. The "death-bed hymn" of the slaves sounds a pathetic wail over an abortive life shivering
on the brink of the Unknown. In the Second Part we find less of the color and music of a poem,
and more of the rapid movement of a drama. The doom of Slavery upon the master now comes into
full relief. The characters of Herbert and his father are favorable specimens of well-meaning,
even honorable, Southern gentlemen,--only not endowed with such exceptional moral heroism as
to offer the pride of life to be crushed before hideous laws. The connection between lyric
and tragic power is shown in the "Tragedy of Errors." The songs and chants of the slaves mingle
with the higher dialogue like the chorus of the Greek stage; they mediate with gentle authority
between the worlds of natural feeling and barbarous usage. Let us also say that the sentiment
throughout this drama is sound and sweet; for it is that mature sentiment, born again of discipline,
which is the pledge of fidelity to the highest business of life.

Before concluding, we take the liberty to remove a mask, not impenetrable to the careful reader,
by saying that the writer is a woman. And let us be thankful that a woman so representative
of the best culture and instinct of New England cannot wholly conceal herself by the modesty
of a pseudonyme. In no way has the Northern spirit roused to oppose the usurpations of Slavery
more truly vindicated its high quality than by giving development to that feminine element
which has mingled with our national life an influence of genuine power. And to-day there are
few men justly claiming the much-abused title of thinkers who do not perceive that the opportunity
of our regenerated republic cannot be fully realized, until we cease to press into factitious
conformity the faculties, tastes, and--let us not shrink from the odious word--missions of
women. The merely literary privilege accorded a generation or two ago is in itself of slight
value. Since the success of "Evelina," women have been freely permitted to jingle pretty verses
for family newspapers, and to novelize morbid sentiments of the feebler sort. And we see one
legitimate result in that flightiness of the feminine mind which, in a lower stratum of current
literature, displays inaccurate opinions, feeble prejudices, and finally blossoms into pert
vulgarity. But instances of perverted license increase our obligation to Mrs. Child, Mrs. Stowe
and to others whose eloquence is only in deeds. Of such as these, and of her whom we may now
associate with them, it is not impossible some unborn historian may write, that in certain
great perils of American liberty, when the best men could only offer rhetoric, women came forward
with demonstration. Yet, after all, our deepest indebtedness to the present series of volumes
seems to be this: they bear gentle testimony to what the wise ever believed, that the delicacy
of spirit we love to characterize by the dear word "womanly" is not inconsistent with varied
and exact information, independent opinion, and the insights of genius.

Finally, we venture to mention, what has been in the minds of many New-England readers, that
these books are indissolubly associated with a young life offered in the nation's great necessity.
At the time when the first of the series was made public, a shudder ran through our homes,
as a regiment, rich in historic names, stood face to face with death. Among the fallen was
the only son of her whose writings have been given us. Let us think without bitterness of the
sacrifice of one influenced and formed by the rare nature we find in these poems. What better
result of culture than to dissipate intellectual mists and uncertainties, and to fix the grasp
firmly upon some great practical good? There is nothing wasted in one who lived long enough
to show that the refinement acquired and inherited was of the noble kind which could prefer
the roughest action for humanity to elegant allurements of gratified taste. The best gift of
scholarship is the power it gives a man to descend with all the force of his acquired position,
and come into effective union with the world of facts. For it is the crucial test of brave
qualities that they are truer and more practical for being filtered through libraries. In reading
the "Theages" of Plato we feel a certain respect for the young seeker of wisdom whose only
wish is to associate with Socrates; and there is a certain admiration for the father, Demodocus,
who joyfully resigns his son, if the teacher will admit him to his friendship and impart all
that he can. But it is a higher result of a higher order of society, when a young man with
aptitude to follow science and assimilate knowledge sees in the most perilous service of civilization
a rarer illumination of mind and heart. In the great scheme of things, where all grades of
human worthiness are shown for the benefit of man, this costly instruction shall not fail of
fruit. And so the deepest moral that comes to us from the "Tragedy of Errors" seems a prophetic
memorial of the soldier for constitutional liberty with whom it will be long connected. The
wealth of life--so we read the final meaning of these verses--is in its discipline; and the
graceful dreams of the poet, and the quickened intellect of the scholar, are but humble instruments
for the helping of mankind.

A Discourse on the Life, Character, and Policy of Count Cavour. Delivered in the Hall of the
New York Historical Society, February 20, 1862. By VINCENZO BOTTA, Ph.D., Professor of Italian
Literature in the New York University, late Member of the Parliament, and Professor of Philosophy
in the Colleges of Sardinia. New York: G.P. Putnam. 8vo. pp. 108.

This is a most admirable tribute to one of the greatest men of our age, by a writer singularly
well qualified in all respects to do justice to his rich and comprehensive theme. Professor
Botta is a native of Northern Italy, in the first place, and thus by inheritance and natural
transmission is heir to a great deal of knowledge as to the important movements of which Cavour
was the mainspring, which a foreigner could acquire only by diligent study and inquiry. In
the next place, he has not been exclusively a secluded student, but he has taken part in the
great political drama which he commemorates, and has been brought into personal relations with
the illustrious man whose worth he here sets forth with such ample knowledge, such generous
devotion, such patriotic fervor. And lastly, he is a man of distinguished literary ability,
wielding the language of his adopted country with an ease and grace which hardly leave a suspicion
that he was not writing his vernacular tongue. A namesake of his--whether a relation or not,
we are not informed--has written "in very choice Italian" a history of the American Revolution;
and the work before us, relating in such excellent English the leading events of a glorious
Italian revolution, is a partial payment of the debt of gratitude contracted by the publication
of that classical production.

But a writer of inferior opportunities and inferior capacity to Professor Botta could hardly
have failed to produce an attractive and interesting work, with such a subject. There never
was a life which stood less in need of the embellishments of rhetoric, which could rest more
confidently and securely upon its plain, unvarnished truth, than that of Count Cavour. He was
a man of the highest order of greatness; and when we have said that, we have also said that
he was a man of simplicity, directness, and transparency. A man of the first class is always
easily interpreted and understood. The biographer of Cavour has nothing to do but to recount
simply and consecutively what he said and what he did, and his task is accomplished: no great
statesman has less need of apology or justification; no one's name is less associated with
doubtful acts or questionable policy. His ends were not more noble than was the path in which
he moved towards them direct. Professor Botta has fully comprehended the advantages derived
from the nature of his subject, and has confined himself to the task of relating in simple
and vigorous English the life and acts of Cavour from his birth to his death. He has given
us a rapid and condensed summary, but nothing of importance is omitted, and surely enough is
told to vindicate for Cavour the highest rank which the enthusiastic admiration and gratitude
of his countrymen have accorded to him. Where can we find a nobler life? And, take him all
in all, whom shall we pronounce to have been a greater statesman? What variety of power he
showed, and what wealth of resources he had at command! Without the pride and coldness of Pitt,
the private vices of Fox, the tempestuous and ill-regulated sensibility of Burke, he had the
useful and commanding intellectual qualities of all the three, except the splendid and imaginative
eloquence of the last.

This life of Cavour, and the incidental sketches of his associates which it includes, will
have a tendency to correct some of the erroneous impressions current among us as to the intellectual
qualities and temperament of the Italian people. The common, or, at least, a very prevalent,
notion concerning them is that they are an impassioned, imaginative, excitable, visionary race,
capable of brilliant individual efforts, but deficient in the power of organization and combination,
and in patience and practical sagacity. Some of us go, or have gone, farther, and have supposed
that the Austrian domination in Italy was the necessary consequence of want of manliness and
persistency in the people of Italy, and was perhaps as much for their good as the dangerous
boon of independence would have been. All such prejudices will be removed by a candid perusal
of this memoir. Cavour himself, as a statesman and a man, was of exactly that stamp which we
flatter ourselves to be the exclusive growth of America and England. He was nothing of a visionary,
nothing of a political pedant, nothing of a doctrinaire. Franklin himself had not a more practical
understanding, or more of large, plain, roundabout sense. He had, too, Franklin's shrewdness,
his love of humor, and his relish for the natural pleasures of life. He had a large amount
of patience, the least showy, but perhaps the most important, of the qualifications of a great
statesman. And in his glorious career he was warmly and generously sustained, not merely by
the king, and by the favored classes, but by the people, whose efforts and sacrifices have
shown how worthy they were of the freedom they have won. We speak here more particularly of
the people of the kingdom of Sardinia; but what we say in praise of them may be extended to
the people of Italy generally. The history of Italy for the last fifteen years is a glorious
chapter in the history of the world. Whatever of active courage and passive endurance has in
times past made the name of Roman illustrious, the events of these years have proved to belong
equally to the name of Italian.

But we are wandering from Count Cavour and Professor Botta. We have to thank the latter for
enriching the literature of his adopted country with a memoir which in the lucid beauty and
transparent flow of its style reminds the Italian scholar of the charm of Boccaccio's limpid
narrative, and is besides animated with a patriot's enthusiasm and elevated by a statesman's
comprehension. A more cordial, heart-warming book we have not for a long time read.

A Treatise on Some of the Insects Injurious to Vegetation. By THADDEUS WILLIAM HARRIS, M.D.
A New Edition, enlarged and improved, with Additions from the Author's Manuscripts, and Original
Notes. Illustrated by Engravings drawn from Nature under the Supervision of Professor Agassiz.
Edited by Charles L. Flint, Secretary of the Massachusetts State Board of Agriculture. 8vo.

This handsome octavo, prepared with such scientific care, is for the special benefit of Agriculture;
and the order, method, and comprehensiveness so evident throughout the Treatise compel the
admiration of all who study its beautifully illustrated pages. The community is largely benefited
by such an aid to the improvement of pursuits in which so many are concerned; and no cultivator
of the soil can safely be ignorant of what Dr. Harris has studied and put on record for the
use of those whose honorable occupation it is to till the earth.

As a work of Art we cannot refrain from special praise of the book before us. Turning over
its leaves is like a spring or summer ramble in the country. All creeping and flying things
seem harmlessly swarming in vivid beauty of color over its pages. Such gorgeous moths we never
saw before out of the flower-beds, and there are some butterflies and caterpillars reposing
here and there between the leaves that must have slipped in and gone to sleep on a fine warm
day in July.

The printing of the volume reaches the highest rank of excellence. Messrs. Welch, Bigelow,
& Company may take their place among the Typographical Masters of this or any other century.

Pictures of Old England. By DR. REINHOLD PAULI, Author of "History of Alfred the Great," etc.
Translated, with the Author's Sanction, by E.C. OTTÉ. Cambridge [England]: Macmillan & Co.
Small 8vo. pp. xii., 457.

Dr. Pauli is already known on both sides of the Atlantic as the author of two works of acknowledged
learning and ability,--a "History of England during the Middle Ages," and a "History of Alfred
the Great." In his new volume he furnishes some further fruits of his profound researches into
the social and political history of England in the Middle Ages; and if the book will add little
or nothing to his present reputation, it affords at least new evidence of his large acquaintance
with English literature. It comprises twelve descriptive essays on as many different topics,
closely connected with his previous studies. Among the best of these are the papers entitled
"Monks and Mendicant Friars," which give a brief and interesting account of monastic institutions
in England; "The Hanseatic Steel-Yard in London," comprising a history of that famous company
of merchant-adventurers, with a description of the buildings occupied by them, and a sketch
of their domestic life; and "London in the Middle Ages," which presents an excellent description
of the topography and general condition of the city during that period, and is illustrated
by a small and carefully drawn plan. There are also several elaborate essays on the early relations
of England with the Continent, besides papers on "The Parliament in the Fourteenth Century,"
"Two Poets, Gower and Chaucer," "John Wiclif," (as Dr. Pauli spells the name,) and some other
topics. All the papers show an adequate familiarity with the original sources of information,
and are marked by the same candor and impartiality which have hitherto characterized Dr. Pauli's
labors. The translation, without being distinguished by any special graces of style, is free
from the admixture of foreign idioms, and, so far as one may judge from the internal evidence,
appears to be faithfully executed. As a collection of popular essays, the volume is worthy
of much praise. 2 vols. 12mo.

In Lamb's famous controversy with Southey in 1823, (the only controversy "Elia" ever indulged
in,) he says of the author of "Rimini," "He is one of the most cordial-minded men I ever knew,
and matchless as a fireside companion."

Few authors have had warmer admirers of their writings, or more sincere personal friends, than
Leigh Hunt. He seemed always to inspire earnestly and lovingly every one who came into friendly
relations with him.

With this immortal record of his excellence made by Shelley's hand, Leigh Hunt cannot be forgotten.
Counting among his friends the best men and women of his time, his name and fame are embalmed
in their books as they were in their hearts. Charles Lamb, Keats, Shelley, and Mrs. Browning
knew his worth, and prized it far above praising him; and there are those still living who
held him very dear, and loved the sound of his voice like the tones of a father or a son.

A man's letters betray his heart,--both those he sends and those he receives. Leigh Hunt's
correspondence, as here collected by his son, is full of the wine of life in the best sense
of spirit.

The Works of Charles Dickens. Household Edition. Martin Chuzzlewit. New York: Sheldon & Company.

It is not our intention, at the present writing, to enter into any discussion concerning the
characteristics or the value of the novels of Charles Dickens: we have neither time nor space
for it. Besides, to few of our readers do these books need introduction or recommendation from
us. They have long been accepted by the world as worthy to rank among those works of genius
which harmonize alike with the thoughtful mind of the cultivated and the simple feelings of
the unlearned,--which discover in every class and condition of men some truth or beauty for
all humanity. They are, in the full sense of the word, household books, as indispensable as
Shakspeare or Milton, Scott or Irving.

We may fairly say of the various editions of Dickens's writings, that their "name is Legion."
None of them all, however, is better adapted to common libraries than the new edition now publishing
in New York. It will be comprised in fifty volumes, to be published in instalments at intervals
of six or eight weeks. The mechanical execution is most commendable in every respect: clear,
pleasantly tinted paper; typography in the best style of the Riverside Press; binding novel
and tasteful. A vignette, designed either by Darley or Gilbert, and engraved upon steel, is
prefixed to each volume. We have to congratulate the publishers that they have so successfully
fulfilled the promises of their prospectus, and the public that an edition at once elegant
and inexpensive is now provided.

FOREIGN LITERATURE.

Die Schweizerische Literatur des achzehnten Jahrhunderts. Von T.C. MÖRIKOFER. Leipzig: Verlag
von S. Hirzel. 8vo. pp. 536.

In the early part of the Middle Ages Switzerland contributed comparatively little to the literary
glory of Germany. Beyond Conrad of Würzburg, who is claimed as a native of Basel, no Swiss
name can be found among the poets of the Hohenstaufen period. In a later age it is rather the
practical than the romantic character of the Swiss that is manifested in their productions.
The Reformation brought them in closer contact with German culture. There was need of this;
for in no country was the gap wider between the language of the people and that of the learned.
Scholars like Zwinglius and Bullinger were almost helpless, when they sought to express themselves
in German. Little appeal could, therefore, be made to the masses in their own tongue by such
writers. During the whole of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries the vernacular was even
more neglected than before. It was not until the beginning of the eighteenth that Latin and
French ceased to be the only languages deemed worthy of use in literary composition. In 1715
Johannes Muralt wrote his "Eidgnöszischen Lustgarten," and later several other works, mostly
scientific, in German. Political causes came in to help the reaction, and from that time the
Protestant portion of the Helvetic Confederation may be said to have had a literature of its own.

It is the history of the literature of German Switzerland during the eighteenth century that
Mörikofer has essayed to write. He has chosen a subject hitherto but little studied, and his
work deserves to stand by the side of the best German literary histories of our time.

The author begins with the first signs of the reaction against the influence of France, agreeably
portraying the awakening of Swiss consciousness, and the gradual development of the enlightened
patriotism that impelled Swiss writers to lay aside mere courtly elegance of diction for their
own more terse and vigorous idiom.

This awakening was not confined to letters. Formerly the Swiss, instead of appreciating the
beauties of their own land, rather considered them as impediments to the progress of civilization.
It seems incredible to us now that there ever could have been a time when mountain-scenery,
instead of being sought, was shunned,--when princes possessing the most beautiful lands among
the Rhine hills should, with great trouble and expense, have transported their seats to some
flat, uninviting locality,--when, for instance, the dull, flat, prosy, wearisome gardens of
Schwetzingen should have been deemed more beautiful than the immediate environs of Heidelberg.
Yet such were the sentiments that prevailed in Switzerland until a comparatively late date.
It is only since the days of Scheuchzer that Swiss scenery has been appreciated, and in this
appreciation were the germs of a new culture.

As in Germany societies had been established "for the practice of German" at Leipsic and Hamburg,
so in various Swiss cities associations were formed with the avowed purpose of discouraging
the imitation of French models. Thus, at Zürich several literary young men, among them Hagenbuch
and Lavater, met at the house of the poet Bodmer. The example was followed in other cities.
Though these clubs and their periodical organs soon fell into an unwarrantable admiration of
all that was English, the result was a gradual development of the national taste. Since then
the literary efforts of the Swiss have been characterized by an ardent love of country. A direct
popular influence may be felt in their best productions; hence the nature of their many beauties,
as well as of their faults. To the same influence also we owe that phalanx of reformers and
philanthropists, Hirzel, Iselin, Lavater, and Pestalozzi.

A great portion of the work under consideration is devoted to the lives and labors of these
benefactors of their people. The book is, therefore, not a literary history in the strict sense
of the term. It gives a comprehensive view of the culture of German Switzerland during the
eighteenth century. To Bodmer alone one hundred and seventy-five pages are devoted. In this
essay, as well as in that on the historian Müller, a vast amount of information is presented,
and many facts collated by the author are now given, we believe, for the first time.

Literaturbilder.--Darstellungen deutscher Literatur aus den Werken der vorzüglichsten Literarhistoriker,
etc. Herausgegeben von J.W. SCHAEFER. Leipzig: Friedrich Brandstetter. 8vo. pp. 409.

There is no lack of German literary histories. While English letters have not yet found an
historian, there are scores of works upon every branch of German literature. Of these, many
possess rare merits, and are characterized by a depth, a comprehensiveness of criticism not
to be found in the similar productions of any other nation. Whoever has once been guided by
the master-minds of Germany will bear witness that the guidance cannot be replaced by that
of any other class of writers. Nowhere can such universality, such freedom from national prejudice,
be found,--and this united to a love of truth, earnestness of labor, and perseverance of research
that may be looked for in vain elsewhere.

The difficulty for the student of German literary history lies, then, in the selection. A new
work, the "Literaturbilder" of J.W. Schaefer, will greatly tend to facilitate the choice. This
is a representation of the chief points of the literature of Germany by means of well-chosen
selections from the principal historians of letters. The editor introduces these by an essay
upon the "Epochs of German Literature." Then follow, with due regard to chronological order,
extracts from the works of Vilmar, Gervinus, Wackernagel, Schlosser, Julian Schmidt, and others.
These extracts are of such length as to give a fair idea of the writers, and so arranged as
to form a connected history. Thus, under the third division, comprising the eighteenth century
until Herder and Goethe, we find the following articles following each other: "State of Literature
in the Eighteenth Century"; "Johann Christian Gottsched," by F.C. Schlosser; "Gottsched's Attempts
at Dramatic Reform," by R. Prutz; "Hagedorn and Haller," by J.W. Schaefer; "Bodmer and Breitinger,"
by A. Koberstein; "The Leipsic Association of Poets and the Bremen Contributions," by Chr.
F. Weisse; "German Literature in the Middle of the Eighteenth Century," by Goethe; "Gottlieb
Wilhelm Rabener," by H. Gelzer; "Gellert's Fables," by H. Prutz. Those who do not possess the
comprehensive works of Gervinus, Cholerius, Wackernagel, etc., may thus in one volume find
enough to be able to form a fair opinion of the nature of their labors.

The "Literaturbilder," though perhaps lacking in unity, is one of the most attractive of literary
histories. A few important names are missed, as that of Menzel, from whom nothing is quoted.
The omission seems the more unwarrantable, as this writer, whatever we may think of his views,
still enjoys the highest consideration among a numerous class of German readers. The contributions
of the editor himself form no inconsiderable part of the volume. Those quoted from his "Life
of Goethe" deserve special mention. The work does not extend beyond the first years of the
present century, and closes with Jean Paul. Martin Chuzzlewit. In Four Volumes. New York. Sheldon
& Co. 16mo. pp. 322, 299, 292, 322. $3.00.

The Earl's Heirs. A Tale of Domestic Life. 50 cts.

The Spirit of Military Institutions; or, Essential Principles of the Art of War. By Marshal
Marmont, Duke of Ragusa. Translated from the Latest Edition, revised and corrected by the Author;
with Illustrative Notes by Henry Coppée, Professor of English Literature in the University
of Pennsylvania, late an Officer of Artillery in the Service of the United States. Philadelphia.
Lippincott & Co. 12mo. pp. 272. $1.00.

Maxims, Advice, and Instructions on the Art of War; or, A Practical Military Guide for the
Use of Soldiers of all Arms and of all Countries. Translated from the French by Captain Lendy,
Director of the Practical Military College, late of the French Staff, etc. New York. D. Van
Nostrand. 18mo. pp. 212. 75 cts.

Rhymed Tactics. By "Gov." New York. D. Van Nostrand. 18mo. paper, pp. 144. 25 cts.

Official Army Register, for 1862. From the Copy issued by the Adjutant-General U.S. Army. New
York. D. Van Nostrand. 8vo. paper, pp. 108. 50 cts.

Water: Its History, Characteristics, Hygienic and Therapeutic Uses. By Samuel W. Francis, A.M.,
M.D., Physician to the Northern Dispensary, New York. New York. S.S. & W. Wood. 8vo. paper,
pp. 47. 25 cts.

An Exposition of Modern Spiritualism, showing its Tendency to a Total Annihilation of Christianity.
With other Miscellaneous Remarks and Criticisms, in Support of the Fundamental Principles of
the Christian Religion. By Samuel Post. New York. Printed by James Egbert. 8vo. paper, pp.
86. 25 cts.

Sybelle, and other Poems. By L. New York. G.W. Carleton. 12mo. pp. 192. 50 cts.

Aids to Faith: A Series of Theological Essays. By Several Writers. Being a Reply to "Essays
and Reviews." Edited by William Thomson, D.D., Lord Bishop of Gloucester and Bristol. New York.
Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 538. $1.50. 12mo. pp. 133. 12mo. pp. xviii., 367. $1.00.

Can Wrong be Right? By Mrs. S.C. Hall Boston. T.O.H.P. Burnham. 8vo. paper. pp. 143. 38 cts.

The Old Lieutenant and his Son. By Norman Macleod. Boston. T.O.H.P. Burnham, 8vo. paper, pp.
130. 30 cts.

Eighth Annual Report of the Superintendent of Public Instruction of the State of New York.
Transmitted to the Legislature January 8,1882. Albany. C. Van Benthuysen, Printer. 8vo. pp. 133.

Nolan's System for Training Cavalry Horses. By Kenner Garrard, Captain Fifth Cavalry, U.S.A.
With Twenty-Four Lithographed Illustrations. New York. D. Van Nostrand. 12mo. pp. 114. $1.50.

The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mohammed. Translated into English immediately from
the Original Arabic. By George Sale, Gent. To which is prefixed The Life of Mohammed; or, The
History of that Doctrine which was begun, carried on, and finally established by him in Arabia,
and which has subjugated a Larger Portion of the Globe than the Religion of Jesus has set at
Liberty. Boston. T.O.H.P. Burnham. 12mo. pp. 472. $1,00.

A Strange Story. By Sir E. Bulwer Lytton. With Engravings on Steel by F.O. Freeman, after Drawings
by J.N. Hyde, from Designs by Gardner A. Fuller. Boston. Gardner A. Fuller. 12mo. pp. 387.
paper, 25 cts. muslin, $1.00.