Marcella turned an uncertain look upon Lord Fontenoy and Mrs. Allison. But directly Maxwell's
wife entered the room, Maxwell's enemy had dropped his talk of political affairs, and he was
now showing Sir Philip a portfolio of Mrs. Allison's sketches, with a subdued ardour that brought
a kindly smile to Marcella's lip. In general, Fontenoy had neither eye nor ear for anything
artistic; moreover, he spoke barbarous French, and no other European tongue; while of letters
he had scarcely a tincture. But when it became a question of Mrs. Allison's accomplishments,
her drawing, her embroidery, still more her admirable French and excellent Italian, the books
she had read, and the poetry she knew by heart, he was all appreciation--one might almost say,
all feeling. It was Cymon and Iphigenia in a modern and middle-aged key.

His mien he fashioned and his tongue he filed.

And did a blunder come, Iphigenia gently and deftly put it to rights.

"Where is Madeleine?" asked Betty, as Marcella approached her sofa.

"Walking with Lord Naseby, I think."

"What was the matter on the way from church?" asked Betty, in a low voice, raising her face
to her friend.

Marcella, looked gravely down upon her.

"If you come into the garden I will tell you. Madeleine told me."

Betty, all curiosity, followed her friend through the open window to a seat in the Dutch garden
outside.

"It was a terrible thing that happened," said Marcella, sitting erect, and speaking with a
manner of suppressed energy that Betty knew well; "one of the things that make my blood boil
when I come here. You know how she rules the village?"--She turned imperceptibly towards the
distant drawing-room, where Mrs. Allison's white head was still visible. "Not only must all
the cottages be beautiful, but all the people must reach a certain standard of virtue. If a
man drinks, he must go; if a girl loses her character, she and her child must go. It was such
a girl that threw herself in the way of the party this morning. Her mother would not part with
her; so the decree went forth--the whole family must go. They say the girl has never been right
in her head since the baby's birth; she raved and wept this morning, said her parents could
find no work elsewhere--they must die, she and her child must die. Mrs. Allison tried to stop
her, but couldn't; then she hurriedly sent the others on, and stayed behind herself--only for
a minute or two; she overtook Madeleine almost immediately. Madeleine is sure she was inexorable;
so am I; she always is. I once argued with her about a case of the kind--a cruel case! 'Those
are the sins that make me shudder!' she said, and one could make no impression on her whatever.
You see how exhausted she looks this afternoon. She will wear herself out, probably, praying
and weeping over the girl."

Betty threw up her hands.

"My dear!--when she knows--"

"It may perfectly well kill her," said Marcella, steadily. Then, after a pause, Betty saw her
face flush from brow to chin, and she added, in a low and passionate voice: "Nevertheless,
from all tyrannies and cruelties in the name of Christ, good Lord, deliver us!"

The two lingered together for some time without speaking. Both were thinking of much the same
things, but both were tired with the endless talking of a country-house Sunday, and the rest
was welcome.

And presently Marcella rambled away from her friend, and spent an hour pacing by herself in
a glade beside the river.

And there her mind instantly shook itself from every care but one--the yearning over her husband
and his work.

Two years of labour--she caught her breath with a little sob--labour which had aged and marked
the labourer; and now, was it really to be believed, that after all the toil, after so much
hope and promise of success, everything was to be wrecked at last?

She gave herself once more to eager forecasts and combinations. As to individuals--she recalled
Tressady's blunt warning with a smile and a wince. But it did not prevent her from falling
into a reverie of which he, or someone like him, was the centre. Types, incidents, scenes,
rose before her--if they could only be pressed upon, burnt into such a mind, as they had been
burnt into her mind and Maxwell's! That was the whole difficulty--lack of vision, lack of realisation.
Men were to have the deciding voice in this thing, who had no clear conception of how poverty
and misery live, no true knowledge of this vast tragedy of labour perpetually acted, in our
midst, no rebellion of heart against conditions of life for other men they themselves would
die a thousand times rather than accept. She saw herself, in a kind of despair, driving such
persons through streets, and into houses she knew, forcing them to look, and feel. Even now,
at the last moment--

How much better she had come to know this interesting, limited being, George Tressady, during
these twenty-four hours! She liked his youth, his sincerity--even the stubbornness with which
he disclaimed inconvenient enthusiasms; and she was inevitably flattered by the way in which
his evident prejudice against herself had broken down.

His marriage was a misfortune, a calamity! She thought of it with the instinctive repulsion
of one who has never known any temptation to the small vulgarities of life. One could have
nothing to say to a little being like that. But all the more reason for befriending the man!

       *       *       *       *       *

An hour or two later Tressady found himself strolling home along the flowery bank of the river.
It was not long since he had parted from Lady Maxwell and Hallin, and on leaving them he had
turned back for a while towards the woods on the hill, on the pretext that he wanted more of
a walk. Now, however, he was hurrying towards the house, that there might be time for a chat
with Letty before dressing. She would think he had been away too long. But he had proposed
to take her on the river after tea, and she had preferred a walk with Lord Cathedine.

Since then--He looked round him at the river and the hills. There was a flush of sunset through
the air, and the blue of the river was interlaced with rosy or golden reflections from a sky
piled with stormy cloud and aglow with every "visionary majesty" of light and colour. The great
cloud-masses were driving in a tragic splendour through the west; and hue and form alike, throughout
the wide heaven, seemed to him to breathe a marvellous harmony and poetry, to make one vibrating
"word" of beauty. Had some god suddenly gifted him with new senses and new eyes? Never had
he felt so much joy in Nature, such a lifting up to things awful and divine. Why? Because a
beautiful woman had been walking beside him?--because he had been talking with her of things
that he, at least, rarely talked of--realities of feeling, or thought, or memory, that no woman
had ever shared with him before?

How had she drawn him to such openness, such indiscretions? He was half ashamed, and then forgot
his discomfort in the sudden, eager glancing of the mind to the future, to the opportunities
of the day just coming--for Mrs. Allison's party was to last till Whit Tuesday--to the hours
and places in London where he was to meet her on those social errands of hers. What a warm,
true heart! What a woman, through all her dreams and mistakes, and therefore how adorable!

       *       *       *       *       *

