The man bowed and retired.  In a few moments, Alan Campbell walked in, looking very stern and
rather pale, his pallor being intensified by his coal-black hair and dark eyebrows.

"Alan!  This is kind of you.  I thank you for coming."

"I had intended never to enter your house again, Gray.  But you said it was a matter of life
and death."  His voice was hard and cold.  He spoke with slow deliberation.  There was a look
of contempt in the steady searching gaze that he turned on Dorian.  He kept his hands in the
pockets of his Astrakhan coat, and seemed not to have noticed the gesture with which he had
been greeted.

"Yes:  it is a matter of life and death, Alan, and to more than one person.  Sit down."

Campbell took a chair by the table, and Dorian sat opposite to him. The two men's eyes met.
In Dorian's there was infinite pity.  He knew that what he was going to do was dreadful.

After a strained moment of silence, he leaned across and said, very quietly, but watching the
effect of each word upon the face of him he had sent for, "Alan, in a locked room at the top
of this house, a room to which nobody but myself has access, a dead man is seated at a table.
He has been dead ten hours now.  Don't stir, and don't look at me like that.  Who the man is,
why he died, how he died, are matters that do not concern you.  What you have to do is this--"

"Stop, Gray.  I don't want to know anything further.  Whether what you have told me is true
or not true doesn't concern me.  I entirely decline to be mixed up in your life.  Keep your
horrible secrets to yourself.  They don't interest me any more."

"Alan, they will have to interest you.  This one will have to interest you.  I am awfully sorry
for you, Alan.  But I can't help myself.  You are the one man who is able to save me.  I am
forced to bring you into the matter.  I have no option.  Alan, you are scientific.  You know
about chemistry and things of that kind.  You have made experiments. What you have got to do
is to destroy the thing that is upstairs--to destroy it so that not a vestige of it will be
left.  Nobody saw this person come into the house.  Indeed, at the present moment he is supposed
to be in Paris.  He will not be missed for months.  When he is missed, there must be no trace
of him found here.  You, Alan, you must change him, and everything that belongs to him, into
a handful of ashes that I may scatter in the air."

"You are mad, Dorian."

"Ah!  I was waiting for you to call me Dorian."

"You are mad, I tell you--mad to imagine that I would raise a finger to help you, mad to make
this monstrous confession.  I will have nothing to do with this matter, whatever it is.  Do
you think I am going to peril my reputation for you?  What is it to me what devil's work you
are up to?"

"It was suicide, Alan."

"I am glad of that.  But who drove him to it?  You, I should fancy."

"Do you still refuse to do this for me?"

"Of course I refuse.  I will have absolutely nothing to do with it.  I don't care what shame
comes on you.  You deserve it all.  I should not be sorry to see you disgraced, publicly disgraced.
How dare you ask me, of all men in the world, to mix myself up in this horror?  I should have
thought you knew more about people's characters.  Your friend Lord Henry Wotton can't have
taught you much about psychology, whatever else he has taught you.  Nothing will induce me
to stir a step to help you. You have come to the wrong man.  Go to some of your friends.  Don't
come to me."

"Alan, it was murder.  I killed him.  You don't know what he had made me suffer.  Whatever
my life is, he had more to do with the making or the marring of it than poor Harry has had.
He may not have intended it, the result was the same."

"Murder!  Good God, Dorian, is that what you have come to?  I shall not inform upon you.  It
is not my business.  Besides, without my stirring in the matter, you are certain to be arrested.
Nobody ever commits a crime without doing something stupid.  But I will have nothing to do
with it."

"You must have something to do with it.  Wait, wait a moment; listen to me.  Only listen, Alan.
All I ask of you is to perform a certain scientific experiment.  You go to hospitals and dead-houses,
and the horrors that you do there don't affect you.  If in some hideous dissecting-room or
fetid laboratory you found this man lying on a leaden table with red gutters scooped out in
it for the blood to flow through, you would simply look upon him as an admirable subject. 
You would not turn a hair.  You would not believe that you were doing anything wrong.  On the
contrary, you would probably feel that you were benefiting the human race, or increasing the
sum of knowledge in the world, or gratifying intellectual curiosity, or something of that kind.
What I want you to do is merely what you have often done before. Indeed, to destroy a body
must be far less horrible than what you are accustomed to work at.  And, remember, it is the
only piece of evidence against me.  If it is discovered, I am lost; and it is sure to be discovered
unless you help me."

"I have no desire to help you.  You forget that.  I am simply indifferent to the whole thing.
It has nothing to do with me."

"Alan, I entreat you.  Think of the position I am in.  Just before you came I almost fainted
with terror.  You may know terror yourself some day.  No! don't think of that.  Look at the
matter purely from the scientific point of view.  You don't inquire where the dead things on
which you experiment come from.  Don't inquire now.  I have told you too much as it is.  But
I beg of you to do this.  We were friends once, Alan."

"Don't speak about those days, Dorian--they are dead."

"The dead linger sometimes.  The man upstairs will not go away.  He is sitting at the table
with bowed head and outstretched arms.  Alan! Alan!  If you don't come to my assistance, I
am ruined.  Why, they will hang me, Alan!  Don't you understand?  They will hang me for what
I have done."

"There is no good in prolonging this scene.  I absolutely refuse to do anything in the matter.
It is insane of you to ask me."

"You refuse?"

"Yes."

"I entreat you, Alan."

"It is useless."

The same look of pity came into Dorian Gray's eyes.  Then he stretched out his hand, took a
piece of paper, and wrote something on it.  He read it over twice, folded it carefully, and
pushed it across the table.  Having done this, he got up and went over to the window.

Campbell looked at him in surprise, and then took up the paper, and opened it.  As he read
it, his face became ghastly pale and he fell back in his chair.  A horrible sense of sickness
came over him.  He felt as if his heart was beating itself to death in some empty hollow.

After two or three minutes of terrible silence, Dorian turned round and came and stood behind
him, putting his hand upon his shoulder.

"I am so sorry for you, Alan," he murmured, "but you leave me no alternative.  I have a letter
written already.  Here it is.  You see the address.  If you don't help me, I must send it.
If you don't help me, I will send it.  You know what the result will be.  But you are going
to help me.  It is impossible for you to refuse now.  I tried to spare you.  You will do me
the justice to admit that.  You were stern, harsh, offensive.  You treated me as no man has
ever dared to treat me--no living man, at any rate.  I bore it all.  Now it is for me to dictate
terms."

Campbell buried his face in his hands, and a shudder passed through him.

"Yes, it is my turn to dictate terms, Alan.  You know what they are. The thing is quite simple.
Come, don't work yourself into this fever. The thing has to be done.  Face it, and do it."

A groan broke from Campbell's lips and he shivered all over.  The ticking of the clock on the
mantelpiece seemed to him to be dividing time into separate atoms of agony, each of which was
too terrible to be borne.  He felt as if an iron ring was being slowly tightened round his
forehead, as if the disgrace with which he was threatened had already come upon him.  The hand
upon his shoulder weighed like a hand of lead. It was intolerable.  It seemed to crush him.

"Come, Alan, you must decide at once."

"I cannot do it," he said, mechanically, as though words could alter things.

"You must.  You have no choice.  Don't delay."

He hesitated a moment.  "Is there a fire in the room upstairs?"

"Yes, there is a gas-fire with asbestos."

"I shall have to go home and get some things from the laboratory."

"No, Alan, you must not leave the house.  Write out on a sheet of notepaper what you want and
my servant will take a cab and bring the things back to you."

Campbell scrawled a few lines, blotted them, and addressed an envelope to his assistant.  Dorian
took the note up and read it carefully.  Then he rang the bell and gave it to his valet, with
orders to return as soon as possible and to bring the things with him.

As the hall door shut, Campbell started nervously, and having got up from the chair, went over
to the chimney-piece. He was shivering with a kind of ague.  For nearly twenty minutes, neither
of the men spoke.  A fly buzzed noisily about the room, and the ticking of the clock was like
the beat of a hammer.

As the chime struck one, Campbell turned round, and looking at Dorian Gray, saw that his eyes
were filled with tears.  There was something in the purity and refinement of that sad face
that seemed to enrage him. "You are infamous, absolutely infamous!" he muttered.

"Hush, Alan.  You have saved my life," said Dorian.

"Your life?  Good heavens! what a life that is!  You have gone from corruption to corruption,
and now you have culminated in crime.  In doing what I am going to do--what you force me to
do--it is not of your life that I am thinking."

"Ah, Alan," murmured Dorian with a sigh, "I wish you had a thousandth part of the pity for
me that I have for you." He turned away as he spoke and stood looking out at the garden.  Campbell
made no answer.

After about ten minutes a knock came to the door, and the servant entered, carrying a large
mahogany chest of chemicals, with a long coil of steel and platinum wire and two rather curiously
shaped iron clamps.

"Shall I leave the things here, sir?" he asked Campbell.

"Yes," said Dorian.  "And I am afraid, Francis, that I have another errand for you.  What is
the name of the man at Richmond who supplies Selby with orchids?"

"Harden, sir."

"Yes--Harden.  You must go down to Richmond at once, see Harden personally, and tell him to
send twice as many orchids as I ordered, and to have as few white ones as possible.  In fact,
I don't want any white ones.  It is a lovely day, Francis, and Richmond is a very pretty place--otherwise
I wouldn't bother you about it."

"No trouble, sir.  At what time shall I be back?"

Dorian looked at Campbell.  "How long will your experiment take, Alan?" he said in a calm indifferent
voice.  The presence of a third person in the room seemed to give him extraordinary courage.

Campbell frowned and bit his lip.  "It will take about five hours," he answered.

"It will be time enough, then, if you are back at half-past seven, Francis.  Or stay:  just
leave my things out for dressing.  You can have the evening to yourself.  I am not dining at
home, so I shall not want you."

"Thank you, sir," said the man, leaving the room.

"Now, Alan, there is not a moment to be lost.  How heavy this chest is! I'll take it for you.
You bring the other things."  He spoke rapidly and in an authoritative manner.  Campbell felt
dominated by him.  They left the room together.

When they reached the top landing, Dorian took out the key and turned it in the lock.  Then
he stopped, and a troubled look came into his eyes.  He shuddered.  "I don't think I can go
in, Alan," he murmured.

"It is nothing to me.  I don't require you," said Campbell coldly.

Dorian half opened the door.  As he did so, he saw the face of his portrait leering in the
sunlight.  On the floor in front of it the torn curtain was lying.  He remembered that the
night before he had forgotten, for the first time in his life, to hide the fatal canvas, and
was about to rush forward, when he drew back with a shudder.

What was that loathsome red dew that gleamed, wet and glistening, on one of the hands, as though
the canvas had sweated blood?  How horrible it was!--more horrible, it seemed to him for the
moment, than the silent thing that he knew was stretched across the table, the thing whose
grotesque misshapen shadow on the spotted carpet showed him that it had not stirred, but was
still there, as he had left it.

He heaved a deep breath, opened the door a little wider, and with half-closed eyes and averted
head, walked quickly in, determined that he would not look even once upon the dead man.  Then,
stooping down and taking up the gold-and-purple hanging, he flung it right over the picture.

There he stopped, feeling afraid to turn round, and his eyes fixed themselves on the intricacies
of the pattern before him.  He heard Campbell bringing in the heavy chest, and the irons, and
the other things that he had required for his dreadful work.  He began to wonder if he and
Basil Hallward had ever met, and, if so, what they had thought of each other.

"Leave me now," said a stern voice behind him.

He turned and hurried out, just conscious that the dead man had been thrust back into the chair
and that Campbell was gazing into a glistening yellow face.  As he was going downstairs, he
heard the key being turned in the lock.

It was long after seven when Campbell came back into the library.  He was pale, but absolutely
calm.  "I have done what you asked me to do," he muttered "And now, good-bye. Let us never
see each other again."

"You have saved me from ruin, Alan.  I cannot forget that," said Dorian simply.

As soon as Campbell had left, he went upstairs.  There was a horrible smell of nitric acid
in the room.  But the thing that had been sitting at the table was gone.

CHAPTER 15

That evening, at eight-thirty, exquisitely dressed and wearing a large button-hole of Parma
violets, Dorian Gray was ushered into Lady Narborough's drawing-room by bowing servants.  His
forehead was throbbing with maddened nerves, and he felt wildly excited, but his manner as
he bent over his hostess's hand was as easy and graceful as ever.  Perhaps one never seems
so much at one's ease as when one has to play a part.  Certainly no one looking at Dorian Gray
that night could have believed that he had passed through a tragedy as horrible as any tragedy
of our age.  Those finely shaped fingers could never have clutched a knife for sin, nor those
smiling lips have cried out on God and goodness.  He himself could not help wondering at the
calm of his demeanour, and for a moment felt keenly the terrible pleasure of a double life.

It was a small party, got up rather in a hurry by Lady Narborough, who was a very clever woman
with what Lord Henry used to describe as the remains of really remarkable ugliness.  She had
proved an excellent wife to one of our most tedious ambassadors, and having buried her husband
properly in a marble mausoleum, which she had herself designed, and married off her daughters
to some rich, rather elderly men, she devoted herself now to the pleasures of French fiction,
French cookery, and French esprit when she could get it.

