[467] These courts must have been at certain times of the day the meeting place of large numbers
of the population, like the courtyards of a modern mosque. Shops in which religious emblems
and other objèts-de-piété were sold would stand about them, just as in the present day the
traveller finds a regular fair in the courtyard of the mosque Meshed-Ali. Among the commodities
that change hands in such places, white doves are very common (LOFTUS, Travels, p. 53). In
this perhaps, we may recognize the survival of a pagan rite, the sacrifice of a dove to the
Babylonian Istar, the Phoenician Astarte, and the Grecian Aphrodite. It was in the courtyards
of one of these temples that those sacred prostitutions of which HERODOTUS speaks, took place
(i. 199). The great extent of the inclosures is readily explained by the crowds they were then
required to accommodate.

[468] "I undertook in Bit-Saggatu," says the king, "the restoration of the chamber of Merodach;
I gave to its cupola the form of a lily, and I covered it with chiselled gold, so that it shone
like the day," London inscription, translated by M. Fr. LENORMANT, in his Histoire ancienne,
vol. ii. pp. 228-229. See also a text of Philostratus in his life of Apollonius of Tyana, (i.
25). The sophist who seems to have founded his description of Babylon on good information,
speaks of a "great brick edifice plated with bronze, which had a dome representing the firmament
and shining with gold and sapphires."

[469] The idea has also occurred to M. OPPERT of restricting the ramp to two sides of the tower,
to the exclusion of the others (Expédition scientifique, vol. i. p. 209); but so far as we
understand his system--which he has not illustrated with any figure--he does not double his
incline, he merely alternates its side at each stage, so that part of it would be on the north-west,
part on the south-west face of his tower.

[470] The original of this relief has not been brought to Europe. We are therefore unable to
decide whether Layard's draughtsman has accurately represented its condition or not.

§ 2.--Ruins of Staged Towers.

In describing the first of our four types we had occasion to point to the buildings at Warka
and Mugheir, which enabled us to restore what may be called the Lower Chaldæan form of temple.
The mounds formed by the remains of those buildings had not been touched for thousands of years,
they had entirely escaped such disturbance as the ruins of Babylon have undergone for so many
centuries at the hand of the builders of Bagdad and Hillah; and it is probable that explorations
carried on methodically and with intelligent patience would give most interesting results.
If, for instance, the foundations of all walls were systematically cleared, we should be enabled
to restore with absolute certainty the plans of the buildings to which they belonged. To the
monuments discovered by the English explorers we must now add a find made by M. de Sarzec at
Tello, of which, however, full details have yet to be furnished.[471] We take the following
from the too short letter that was read to the Academy of Inscriptions on the 2nd of December
1881. "Finally, it was in that part of the building marked H that opens upon the court B that
I found the curious structure of which I spoke to you. This solid mass of burnt brick and bitumen,
with diminishing terraces rising one above the other, reminds us of those Chaldæo-Babylonian
structures whose probable object was to afford a refuge to the inhabitants from the swarms
of insects and burning winds that devastate these regions for nine months of the year." Here,
we believe, M. de Sarzec is in error; the only refuges against the inflamed breath of the desert
were the serdabs, the subterranean chambers with their scanty light and moistened walls, and
the dark apartments of Assyrian palaces with their walls of prodigious thickness. The great
terraces erected at such a vast expenditure of labour were not undertaken merely to escape
the mosquitoes; we may take M. de Sarzec's words, however, as a proof that at Sirtella as in
all the towns of Lower Chaldæa, the remains of a building with several stories or stages are
to be recognized.

The ruins on the site of Babylon may be divided into four principal groups, each forming small
hills that are visible for many miles round; they are designated on the annexed map by the
names under which they are commonly known. These are, in their order from north to south, Babil,
El-Kasr (or Mudjelibeh) and Tell-Amran, on the left bank; on the right bank the most conspicuous
of them all, the Birs-Nimroud.[472] Most of those who have studied the topography of Babylon
are disposed to see in the Kasr and in Tell-Amran the remains of a vast palace, or rather of
several palaces, built by different kings, and those of the famous hanging gardens; while in
Babil (Plate I. and Fig. 37) and the Birs Nimroud (Fig. 168) they agree to recognize all that
is left of the two chief religious buildings of Babylon. Babil would be the oldest of them
all--the Bit-Saggatu or "temple of the foundations of the earth" which stood in the very centre
of the royal city and was admired and described by Herodotus. The Birs-Nimroud would correspond
to the no less celebrated temple of Borsippa, the Bit-Zida, the "temple of the planets and
of the seven spheres."

At Babil no explorations have thrown the least light upon the disposition of the building.
In the whole of its huge mass, which rises to a height of some 130 feet above the plain, no
trace of the separate cubes or of their dimensions is to be found. All the restorations that
have been made are purely imaginary. At Birs-Nimroud the excavations of Sir Henry Rawlinson
in 1854 were by no means fruitless but, unhappily, we are without any detailed account of their
results. So far as we have been told, it would appear that the existence of at least six of
the seven stages had been ascertained and the monument, which, according to Sir Henry Rawlinson's
measurements, is now 153 feet high; can have lost but little of its original height. We can
hardly believe however, that the violence of man and the storms of so many centuries have done
so little damage.[473] It seems to be more clearly proved that, in shape, the temple belonged
to the class we have described under the head of THE RECTANGULAR CHALDÆAN TEMPLE.[474] The
axis of the temple, the vertical line upon which the centre of the terminal chapel must have
been placed, was not at an equal distance from the north-western and south-eastern sides, so
that the building had its gentlest slope--taking it as a whole--towards the south-east.[475]
On that side the cubical blocks of which it was composed were so placed as to leave much wider
steps than on the north-west. The temple therefore had a true façade, in front of which propylæa,
like the one introduced in our restoration from the ruins at Mugheir, were placed. The difference
consists in the fact that here the stages are square on plan. The lowest stage was 273 feet
each way; it rested upon a platform of sun-dried brick which rose but a few feet above the
level of the plain.

Supposing these measurements to be exact they suggest a building which was nothing extraordinary
either in height or mass. The dimensions furnished by Rich and Ker-Porter are much greater.
Both of these speak of a base a stade, or about 606 feet, square, which would give a circumference
of no less than 2,424 feet--not much less than half a mile. In any case the temple now represented
by Babil must have been the larger of the two. M. Oppert mentions 180 metres, or about 600
feet, as one diameter of the present rather irregular mass. That would still be inferior to
the Pyramid of Cheops, which is 764 feet square at the base, and yet the diameter of 600 feet
for Babil is, no doubt, in excess of its original dimensions. The accumulation of rubbish must
have enlarged its base in every direction.

It seems clear, therefore, that the great structures of Chaldæa were inferior to the largest
of the royal tombs of Egypt, both in height and lateral extent. We do not know how far the
subsidiary buildings by which the staged towers are surrounded and supplemented in our plates
may have extended, but it is difficult to believe that their number or importance could have
made the ensemble to which they belonged a rival to Karnak, or even to Luxor.

If we may judge from the texts and the existing ruins, the religious buildings of Assyria were
smaller than those of Chaldæa. When the Ten Thousand traversed the valley of the Tigris in
their famous retreat, they passed close to a large abandoned city, which Xenophon calls Larissa.
As to whether his Larissa was Calah (Nimroud), or Nineveh (Kouyundjik), we need not now inquire,
but his short description of a staged tower is of great interest: "Near this town," he says,
"there was a stone pyramid two plethra (about 203 feet) high; each side of its base was one
plethron in length."[476]

The tower cleared by Layard at Nimroud is perhaps the very one seen by Xenophon.[477] The Greek
soldier speaks of a stone pyramid while the Nimroud tower is of brick, but the whole of its
substructure is cased with the finer material to a height of nearly twenty-four feet, which
is quite enough to account for Xenophon's statement. As for his dimensions, they should not
be taken too literally. In their rapid and anxious march the Greek commanders had no time to
wield the plumb-line or the measuring-chain; they must have trusted mainly to their eyes in
arriving at a notion of the true size of the buildings by which their attention was attracted.
The tower at Nimroud must have been about 150 feet square, measured along its plinth; the present
height of the mound is 141 feet, and nothing above the first stage now exists. As Layard remarks,
one or two stories more must be taken into the account, and they would easily make up an original
elevation of from 200 to 240 feet, or about that of the Larissa tower. Xenophon made use of
the word pyramid because his language furnished him with no term more accurate. Like the true
pyramid, the staged tower diminished gradually from base to summit, and there can be no doubt
as to the real character of the building seen by the Greeks, as may be gathered from their
leader's statement, that the "barbarians from the neighbouring villages took refuge upon it
in great numbers." Such buildings as the pyramids of Egypt and Ethiopia could have afforded
no refuge of the kind. A few could stand upon their summits, supposing them to have lost their
capstones, but it would require the wide ramps and terraces of the staged tower to afford a
foothold for the population of several villages.[478]

Nothing but the first two stages, or rather the plinth and the first stage, now remain at Nimroud
of what must have been the chief temple of Calah. There is no trace either of the ramp or of
the colours with which the different stories were ornamented. The Khorsabad tower discovered
by Place is more interesting and much more instructive as to the arrangement and constitution
of these buildings.[479]

This tower was previously hidden under a mass of débris, which gave it a conical form like
that at Nimroud. Botta had already noticed its existence, but he failed to guess its real character,
which, indeed, was only divined by Place when his explorations were far advanced. As soon as
all doubt was removed as to the real character of the monument, M. Place took every care to
preserve all that might yet exist of it, and our Fig. 184 shows the state of the building after
the excavations were complete. Three whole stages and part of a fourth (to say nothing of the
plinth) were still in existence. The face of each stage was ornamented with vertical grooves,
repeating horizontally the elevation of the Assyrian stepped battlements (Fig. 102); the coloured
stucco, varying in hue from one stage to another, was still in place, and confirmed the assertions
of Herodotus as to the traditional sequence of tints.[480] The external ramp, with its pavement
of burnt brick and its crenellated parapet, was also found.[481] At its base the first stage
described upon the soil a square of about 143 feet each way. Each of the three complete stages
was twenty feet three inches high.

Upon such data M. Thomas had no difficulty in restoring the whole building. Evidently the fourth
story could not have been the original apex, as it would have been strange indeed, if, when
all the rest of the Khorsabad palace had lost its upper works, the sun-dried bricks of the
Observatory alone had resisted the agents of destruction. Moreover the materials of the higher
stories still exist in the 40,000 cubic yards of rubbish which cover the surrounding platform
to an average depth of about ten feet.

How many stages were there? Struck by the importance of the number seven in Assyrian architecture,
M. Thomas fixed upon that number. Even at Khorsabad itself the figure continually crops up.
The city walls had seven gates. One of the commonest of the ornamental motives found upon the
external and internal walls of the Harem is the band of seven half columns illustrated on page
247. Herodotus tells us of the seven different colours used on the concentric walls of Ecbatana.
Finally, in assigning seven stories to the building we get a total elevation of 140 feet, which
corresponds so closely to the 143 feet of the base that we may take the two as identical, and
account for the slight difference between them, amounting only to about three inches for each
story, by the difficulty in taking correct measurements on a ruined structure of sun-dried
brick. And we should remember that Strabo tells us in a passage already quoted that the height
of the great temple at Babylon was equal to its shorter diameter, an arrangement that may to
some extent have been prescribed by custom.

So far then as its main features are concerned, we may look upon the restoration we borrow
from M. Place's work as perfectly authentic (Figs. 185 and 186). Our section (Fig. 187) is
meant to show that no trace of any internal chamber or void of the smallest kind was discovered
by the French explorers. It is, however, quite possible that such chambers were contrived in
the upper stories, but we have no evidence of their existence. We may say the same of the resting-places
mentioned by Herodotus in his description of the temple of Belus. But supposing that edifice
to have had seven stages, its ramp must have been about a thousand yards long, and it is likely
enough that halting places were provided on such a long ascent.

It is not until we come to discuss the object of such a building that we feel compelled to
part company with MM. Place and Thomas. They are inclined to believe that it was an observatory
rather than a temple, and under that title they have described it. Although we have made use
of the name thus given we do not think it has been justified. There is nothing, says M. Place,
among the ruins at Khorsabad to show that the tower ever bore any chapel or tabernacle upon
its apex. But according to their own hypothesis it has lost its three highest stories, so why
should they expect to find any vestige of such a chapel, seeing that it must have been the
first thing to disappear? There is absolutely nothing to negative the idea that it may have
been of wood, in which case its total disappearance would not be surprising, even after the
platform had been thoroughly explored; and that is far from being the case at present. Moreover
there is some little evidence that the purpose of the pyramid was religious. Two stone altars
were found in its neighbourhood. Whether they came from its summit or from the esplanade, they
justify us in believing the Observatory to have been a temple. We are confirmed in this belief
by the similarity--which M. Place himself points out--between it and the chief monuments of
Babylon, as described by Herodotus. It seems to be incontestable that Chaldæa adopted this
form for the largest and most sumptuous of her temples, and why should we suppose the Assyrians
to have broken with that tradition and to have devoted to a different use buildings planned
and constructed on the same principle?

It is true that tablets have been found in the royal archives at Kouyundjik upon which reports
as to the condition of the heavens are recorded for the guidance of the king,[482] but there
is nothing in these so far as they have been deciphered to show that the observations were
taken from the summit of a zigguratt. It is, however, very probable that the astronomers availed
themselves of such a height above the plain in order to escape from floating vapours and to
gain a wider horizon. The platform of the Khorsabad tower must have had a superficial extent
of about 180 square yards. There may have been a chapel or tabernacle in the centre, and yet
plenty of space for the astrologers to do their work at their ease. We do not wish to deny,
therefore, that this tower and other monuments of the same kind may have been used as observatories,
but we believe that in Assyria, as in Chaldæa, their primary object was a religious one--that
they were raised so far above the dwellings of man, even of the king himself, in order to do
honour to the gods whose sanctuaries were to crown their summits.[483]

NOTES:

[471] See Les Fouilles de Chaldée in the Revue archéologique for November, 1881. M. de Sarzec
refers us in his paper to a plan which has not yet been laid before the Academy. We regret
very much that its publication should have been so long delayed, as we have been prevented
from making as much use as we should have wished of M. de Sarzec's architectural discoveries.

[472] The clearest and most precise information upon the topography of Babylon is to be found
in Professor RAWLINSON's essay on that subject in the second volume of his translation of HERODOTUS
(p. 570, in the third edition).

[473] In making his calculations, Professor RAWLINSON has certainly forgotten to take into
account the pier or section of wall that still stands upright upon the surface of the mound
(OPPERT, Expédition scientifique, vol. i. pp. 260, et seq.). It is clearly shown in our figure--Sir
Henry LAYARD leaves us in no doubt on this score: "The Birs-Nimroud rises to a height of 198
feet, and has on its summit a compact mass of brickwork thirty-seven feet high by twenty-eight
broad, the whole being thus 235 feet in perpendicular height," Discoveries, p. 495. LAYARD
says, however, that the dimensions here given were taken from RICH, as he had no time to take
measurements during his hurried visit. ED.

[474] Discoveries, p. 495.

[475] We take these details from Professor RAWLINSON's essay on the topography of Babylon.

[476] XENOPHON, Anabasis, iii, 4, 9.

[477] LAYARD, Discoveries, pp. 126-128, and map 2.

[478] At Kaleh Shergat, where the site of an important, but as yet unidentified Assyrian city
has been recognized, there is a conical mound, recalling in its general aspect the Nimroud
tower, which must contain all that is left of a zigguratt; but no deep excavations have yet
been made in it (LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. ii. p. 61).

[479] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. pp. 147-148, and plates 36-37.

[480] See above, pp. 272-274.

[481] We have already mentioned the size of its steps; see page 192. The gradient for the first
stage was about one in twenty. In the upper stages it must have been far steeper, as the circumference
of the stages was much less, while their height remained the same. It never became very abrupt
however, as supposing that the original number of stories was seven, the gradient would not
be more than about one in fourteen close to the summit.

[482] LENORMANT, Histoire ancienne, vol. ii. p. 200 (3rd edition).

[483] The position occupied by this staged tower in the plan of the royal palace at Khorsabad
suggests that perhaps neither of the two explanations of its purpose here alluded to is the
true one. It is placed immediately outside the Harem wall--and as to the identity of the Harem
there can be no doubt--in such a way that any one ascending it must have had an uninterrupted
view into the numerous courts of the women's apartments. Such a possibility seems inconsistent
with the numerous precautions taken to secure the privacy of that part of the palace (see Vol.
II. Chapter I. § 2). Perhaps the real solution of the difficulty is to be found in a suggestion
made, but only to be cast aside, by Mr. FERGUSSON, that this Khorsabad zigguratt was, in fact,
a private oratory for the exclusive use of Sargon himself (History of Architecture, vol. i.
p. 173).--ED.

§ 3.--Subordinate Types of the Temple.

Side by side with these pyramidal temples the Assyrians seem to have placed others of a less
ambitious kind, dedicated, no doubt, to deities of the second rank. The great staged towers,
whose height and mass implied an effort that could not be often repeated, were devoted to the
worship of the great national gods. Botta believed that he had discovered a temple of this
smaller kind in the building from which we borrowed the example of an Assyrian moulding reproduced
in our Figs. 98 and 99. This edifice is remarkable, not only for its cornice, but also because
it is built of limestone and decorated with sculptures carved from slabs of basalt, the only
things of the kind that have been discovered in the Khorsabad ruins. The general arrangements
are unlike those of any other part of the palace. Unfortunately the building is in a very bad
condition. Even its plan can only be restored in part. Thomas is inclined to see in it rather
a throne room, or divan, as it would be called in the modern East, than a temple. The few bas-reliefs
which may be certainly recognized as having belonged to it are not religious in their character;
they represent hunting scenes, battles and prisoners bringing tribute. Although Thomas's restoration
is, as he himself confesses, entirely conjectural, we have no serious motive for pronouncing
the building to have been a temple.[484]

On the other hand, Layard seems to have had good reasons for recognizing small temples in the
structures he cleared near the great staged tower at Nimroud.[485] The more important of the
two was actually touching that tower (Fig. 188). The character of the building is at once betrayed
by the nature of its sculptures, which are religious rather than historical--figures of gods
and genii, scenes of adoration and mystic theology. And it was not without a purpose that it
was put into close juxtaposition with a zigguratt, an arrangement that proves it to have formed
a part of a collection of buildings consecrated, by the prince whose dwelling covered the rest
of the platform, to the gods in whose protection he placed his trust. The second and smaller
temple stands about thirty yards to the east on the very edge of the artificial mound (Fig.
189). An altar with three feet carved in the shape of lion's paws was found in front of the
entrance.[486] There were no bas-reliefs: the decorations were carried out in paint. The number
of rooms was less, but their general arrangement was similar to that of the larger building.
The chief feature of both was a large hall (e in the first plan, c in the second) with a square
niche at one of its extremities (f in the first plan, d in the second). This niche was paved
with a single slab of alabaster, of considerable size and covered upon both faces with a long
inscription describing in detail the reign of the prince by whom the temple was consecrated.
In the larger of the two buildings the slab in question was twenty-three feet four inches long
and seventeen feet eight inches wide; its thickness was twelve inches. Upon it stood, in all
probability, the statue of the god. The niche must, in fact, have been the secos, or sanctuary
properly speaking. The large oblong hall was the naos or cella. In the larger temple its length
was forty-six feet seven inches. It was preceded by a pronaos or vestibule (Fig. 188, c). We
have no evidence as to the purpose of the chamber marked g in our plan. It has a direct entrance
of its own from the outside (h). The small temple is rather less complicated. Two doorways
(b and f) lead immediately into the principal hall or naos. A small chamber (e) behind the
sanctuary was, perhaps, a kind of storeroom or sacristy. It should be noticed that in the little
temple the doors into the naos were so placed that the image in the sanctuary could not be
seen from without.[487] In both buildings the doors were flanked by winged lions or bulls,
like those of the royal palaces. The walls of the larger temple were decorated with glazed bricks.

These temples of the second class lent themselves to a great variety of forms. Some of them
had their façades crowned by a triangular pediment, like those of the Greek temples (Fig. 190).
It is true that the Khorsabad relief whence we copy this peculiar arrangement deals with the
capture of an Armenian city, Mousasir, called in the narrative of Sargon's conquests "the dwelling
of the god Haldia,"[488] whose temple must be here figured by the sculptor. Must we believe
that the artist has given his temple a form unfamiliar to himself in deference to the accounts
of those who had taken part in the campaign? Is it not more probable that he copied some model
which would be recognized by every spectator as that of a temple, from its frequent occurrence
in the neighbourhood of the very palace on whose decoration he was at work? We are inclined
to say yes to the latter question. But even if we look upon this relief as a faithful sketch
from an Armenian temple we shall still believe that it reproduces a type not unknown to Assyrian
art. Everything combines to prove that the inhabitants of the mountainous countries situated
to the east and north of Assyria had no original and well-marked civilization of their own
during any part of the period with which we are now concerned. Just as Ethiopia borrowed everything
from Egypt, so the Medes and Armenians drew both their arts and their written character from
Chaldæa, by way of Assyria. All the objects found in the neighbourhood of Lake Van are purely
Assyrian in character, and no question is raised as to the fitness of their place in our museums
side by side with objects from Nimroud and Khorsabad. It is, however, of little importance
whether the temple shown in our woodcut was or was not copied from nature; if there were such
buildings in Armenia it was because similar ones had previously existed in Assyria, from which
the architects of the semi-barbarous people, who were in turn the enemies, the vassals and
the subjects of the Ninevite monarchs, had borrowed their leading features.

