The Duke of Dorset goes no more to Ireland: Lord Hartington is to be sent thither with the
olive branch.  Lord Rochford is groom of the stole; Lord Poulet has resigned the bedchamber
on that preference, and my nephew and Lord Essex are to be lords of the bedchamber.  It is
supposed that the Duke of Rutland will be master of the horse, and the Dorset again lord steward.
But all this will come to you as very antique news, if a whisper that your brother has heard
to-day be true, of your having taken a trip to Rome.  If you are there when you receive this,
pray make my Lady Pomfret's(556) compliments to the statues in the Capitol, and inform them
that she has purchased her late lord's collection of statues, and presented them to the University
of Oxford.  The present Earl, her son, is grown a speaker in the House of Lords, and makes
comparisons between Julius Caesar and the watchmen of Bristol, in the same style as he compared
himself to Cerberus, who, when he had one head cut off three others sprang up in its room.
I shall go to-morrow to Dr. Mead's sale, and ruin myself in bronzes and vases--but I will not
give them to the University of Oxford.  Adieu! my dear Sir Knight.

(555) Francis Seymour Conway, Earl of Hertford; his mother was sister to Lady Walpole.

(556) Henrietta Louisa, Countess-dowager of pomfret, having quarrelled with her eldest son,
who was ruined and forced to sell the furniture of his seat at Easton Neston, bought his statues,
which had been part of the Arundelian collection, and had been purchased by his grandfather.

243 Letter 127 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Arlington Street, March 27, 1755.

Your chimney(557) is come, but not to honour: the caryatides are fine and free, but the rest
is heavy: Lord Strafford is not at all struck with it, and thinks it old-fashioned: it certainly
tastes of Inigo Jones.

Your myrtles I have seen in their pots, and they are magnificent, but I fear very sickly. 
In return, I send you a library.  You will receive, some time or other, or the French for you,
the following books: a fourth volume of Dodsley's Collection Of Poems, the worst tome of the
four; three volumes of Worlds; Fielding's Travels, or rather an account how his dropsy was
treated and teased by an inn-keeper's wife in the Isle of Wight; the new Letters of Madame
de S`evign`e, and Hume's History of Great Britain; a book which, though more decried than ever
book was, and certainly with faults, I cannot help liking much.  It is called Jacobite, but
in my opinion is only not George-abite: where others abuse the Stuarts, he laughs at them:
I am sure he does not spare their ministers.  Harding,(558) who has the History of England
at the ends of his parliament fingers, says, that the Journals will contradict most of his
facts.  If it is so, I am sorry; for his style, which is the best we have in history, and his
manner imitated from Voltaire, are very pleasing.  He has showed very clearly that we ought
to quarrel originally with Queen Elizabeth's tyranny for most of the errors of Charles the
First.  As long as he is Willing to sacrifice some royal head, I would not much dispute with
him which it should be.  I incline every day to lenity, as I see more and more that it is being
very partial to think worse of some men than of others. If I was a king myself, I dare say
I should cease to love a republic.  My Lady Rochford desired me t'other day to give her a motto
for a ruby ring, which had been given by a handsome woman of quality to a fine man; he gave
it to his mistress, she to Lord * * * * *, he to my lady: who, I think, does not deny that
it has not yet finished its travels.  I excused myself for some time, on the difficulty of
reducing such a history to a poesy--at last I proposed this:

"This was given by woman to man, and by man to woman."

Are you most impatient to hear of a French war, or the event of the Mitchell election?  If
the former is uppermost in your thoughts, I can tell you, you are very unfashionable.' The
Whigs and Tories at Rome, Athens, and Jerusalem never forgot national points with more zeal,
to attend to private faction, than we have lately.  After triumphs repeated in the committee,
Lord Sandwich and Mr. Fox were beaten largely on the report.  It was a most extraordinary day!
The Tories, who could not trust one another for two hours, had their last consult at the Horn
Tavern just before the report, and all but nine or ten voted in a body (with the Duke of Newcastle)
against agreeing to it: then Sir John Philipps, one of them, moved for a void election, but
was deserted by most of his clan.  We now begin to turn our hands to foreign war.  In the rebellion,
the ministry was so unsettled that nobody seemed to care who was king.  Power is now so established
that I must do the engrossers the justice to say, that they seem to be determined that their
own King shall continue so.  Our fleet is great and well manned; we are raising men and money,
and messages have been sent to both houses from St. James's, which have been answered by very
zealous cards.  In the mean time, sturdy mandates are arrived from France; however with a codicil
of moderation, and power to Mirepoix still to treat. He was told briskly "Your terms must come
speedily; the fleets will sail very quickly; war cannot then be avoided."

I have passed five entire days lately at Dr. Mead's sale, where, however, I bought very little:
as extravagantly as he paid for every thing, his name has even resold them with interest. 
Lord Rockingham gave two hundred and thirty guineas for the Antinous--the dearest bust that,
I believe, was ever sold; yet the nose and chin were repaired and very ill.  Lord Exeter bought
the Homer for one hundred and thirty.  I must tell you a piece of fortune: I supped the first
night of the sale at Bedford-house, and found my Lord Gower dealing at silver pharaoh to the
women. "Oh!" said I laughing, "I laid out six-and-twenty pounds this morning, I will try if
I can win it back," and threw a shilling upon a card: in five minutes I won a five-hundred
leva, which was twenty-five pounds eleven shillings.  I have formerly won a thousand leva,
and at another five hundred leva.  With such luck, shall not I be able to win you back again?

Last Wednesday I gave a feast in form to the Hertfords.  There was the Duke of Grafton, Lord
and Lady Hertford, Mr. Conway, and Lady Ailesbury; in short, all the Conways in the world,
my Lord Orford, and the Churchills.  We dined in the drawing-room below stairs, amidst the
Eagle, Vespasian, etc.  You never saw so Roman a banquet; but withal my virt`u, the bridegroom
seemed the most venerable piece of antiquity.  Good night! The books go to Southampton on Monday.
Yours ever.

(557) A design for a chimney-piece, which, at Mr. Walpole's desire, Mr. Bentley had made for
Lord Strafford.

(558) Nicholas Harding, Esq. clerk of the House of Commons.-E.

245 Letter 128 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Strawberry Hill, April 13, 1755.

If I did not think that you would expect to hear often from me at so critical a season, I should
certainly not write to you to-night: I am here alone, out of spirits, and not well.  In short,
I have depended too much upon my constitution being like

"Grass, that escapes the scythe by being low"

and having nothing of the oak in the sturdiness of my stature, I imagined that my mortality
would remain pliant as long as I pleased.  But I have taken so little care of myself this winter,
and kept such bad hours, that I have brought a slow fever upon my nights, and am worn to a
skeleton: Bethel has plump cheeks to mine.  However, as it would be unpleasant to die just
at the beginning of a war, I am taking exercise and air, and much sleep, and intend to see
Troy taken.  The prospect thickens; there are certainly above twelve thousand men at the Isle
of Rh`e; some say twenty thousand.  An express was yesterday despatched to Ireland, where it
is supposed the storm will burst; but unless our fleet can disappoint the embarkation, I don't
see what service the notification can do: we have quite disgarnished that kingdom of troops;
and if they once land, ten thousand men may walk from one end of the island to the other. 
It begins to be thought that the King will not go abroad; that he cannot, every body has long
thought.  You will be entertained with a prophecy which my Lord Chesterfield has found in the
35th chapter of Ezekiel, which clearly promises us victory over the French, and expressly relates
to this war, as it mentions the two countries (Nova Scotia and Acadia) which are the point
in dispute.  You will have no difficulty in allowing that mounseer, is typical enough of France:
except Cyrus, who is the only heathen prince mentioned by his right name, and that before he
had any name, I know no power so expressly described.

"2. Son of man, set thy face against Mount Seir, and prophecy against it.  3. And say unto
it, Thus saith the Lord God: O Mount Seir, I am against thee; and I will stretch out mine hand
against thee, and I will make thee most desolate.  4. I will lay thy cities waste, and thou
shalt be desolate, etc. 10. Because thou hast said, These two nations and these two countries
shall be mine, and we will possess it."

I am disposed to put great trust in this prediction; for I know few things more in our favour.
You will ask me naturally, what is to become of you? Are you to be left to all the chance of
war, the uncertainty of packets, the difficulty of remittance, the increase of prices?--My
dear sir, do you take me for a prime minister, who acquaints the states that they are in damned
danger, when it is about a day too late? Or shall I order my chancellor to assure you, that
this is numerically the very day on which it is fit to give such notification, and that a day
sooner or a day later would be improper?-- But not to trifle politically with you, your redemption
is nearer than you think for, though not complete: the terms a little depend upon yourself.
You must send me an account, strictly and upon your honour, what your debts are: as there is
no possibility for the present but of compounding them, I put my friendship upon it, that you
answer me sincerely.  Should you, upon the hopes of facilitating your return, not deal ingenuously
with me, which I will not suspect, it would occasion what I hope will never happen. Some overtures
are going to be made to Miss * * * *, to ward off impediments from her.  In short, though I
cannot explain any of the means, your fortune wears another face; and if you send me immediately,
upon your honour, a faithful account of what I ask, no time will be lost to labour your return,
which I wish so much, and of which I have said so little lately, as I have had better hopes
of it.  Don't joke with me upon this head, as you sometimes do: be explicit, be open in the
most unbounded manner, and deal like a man of sense with a heart that deserves that you should
have no disguises to it.  You know me and my style: when I engage earnestly as I do in this
business, I can't bear not to be treated in my own way.

Sir Charles Williams is made ambassador to Russia; which concludes all I know.  But at such
a period two days may produce much, and I shall not send away my letter till I am in town on
Tuesday.  Good night!

Thursday, 17th.

All the officers of the Irish establishment are ordered over thither immediately: Lord Hartington
has offered to go directly,(559) and sets out with Mr. Conway this day se'nnight.  The journey
to Hanover is positive: what if there should be a crossing-over and figuring-in of kings? 
I know who don't think all this very serious; so that, if you have a mind to be in great spirits,
you may quote Lord Hertford.  He went to visit the Duchess of Bedford t'other morning, just
after Lord Anson had been there and told her his opinion.  She asked Lord Hertford what news?
He knew none.  "Don't you hear there will be certainly war?"  "No, Madam: I saw Mr. Nugent
yesterday, and he did not tell me any thing of it."  She replied, "I have Just seen a man who
must know, and who thinks it unavoidable."  "Nay, Madam, perhaps it may: I don't think a little
war would do us any harm." Just as if he had said, losing a little blood in spring is very
wholesome; or that a little hissing would not do the Mingotti any harm!

I went t'other morning to see the sale of Mr. Pelham's plate, with George Selwyn--"Lord!" says
he, "how many toads have been eaten off those plates!"  Adieu!  I flatter myself that this
will be a comfortable letter to you: but I must repeat, that I expect a very serious answer,
and very sober resolutions.  If I treat you like a child, consider you have been so.  I know
I am in the right--more delicacy would appear kinder, without being so kind.  As I wish and
intend to restore and establish your happiness, I shall go thoroughly to work.  You don't want
an apothecary, but a surgeon--but I shall give you over at once, if you are either froward
or relapse.  Yours till then.

(559) As viceroy.

247 Letter 129 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, April 22, 1755.

My dear sir, Your brother and Mr. Chute have just left me in the design of writing to you;
that is, I promised your brother I would, if I could make out a letter.  I have waited these
ten days, expecting to be able to send you a war at least, if not an invasion.  For so long,
we have been persuaded that an attempt would be made on Ireland; we have fetched almost all
the troops from thence; and therefore we have just now ordered all the officers thither, and
the new Lord Lieutenant is going to see if he has any government left: the old Lord Lieutenant
goes on Sunday to see whether he has any Electorate left. Your brother says, he hears to-day
that the French fleet are sailed for America: I doubt it; and that the New-Englanders have
been forming a secret expedition, and by this time have taken Cape Breton again, or something
very considerable.  I remember when the former account came of that conquest, I was stopped
in my chariot, and told, "Cape Breton is taken." I thought the person said "Great Britain is
taken." "Oh!" said I, "I am not at all surprised at that; drive on, coachman." If you should
hear that the Pretender and the Pretend@e have crossed over and figured in, shall you be much
more surprised?

Mr. Chute and I have been motto-hunting(560) for you, but we have had no sport.  The sentence
that puns the best upon your name, and suits the best with your nature, is too old, too common,
and belongs already to the Talbots, Humani nihil alienum.  The motto that punning upon your
name suits best with your public character, is the most heterogeneous to your private, Homo
Homini Lupus--forgive my puns, I hate them; but it shows how I have been puzzled, and how little
I have succeeded.  If I could pity Stosch, it would be for the edict by which Richcourt incorporates
his collection-but when he is too worthless to be pitied living, can one feel for a hardship
that is not to happen to him till he is dead? How ready 1 should be to quarrel with the Count
for such a law, if I was driving to Louis,(561) at the Palazzo Vecchio!

Adieu! my dear child; I am sensible that this is a very scrap of a letter; but unless the Kings
of England and France will take more care to supply our correspondence, and not be so dilatory,
is it my fault that I am so concise? Sure, if they knew how much postage they lost, by not
supplying us with materials for letters, they would not mind flinging away eight or ten thousand
men every fortnight.

(560) It was necessary for him to have a motto to his arms, as a baronet.

(561) Louis Siriez, a French goldsmith at Florence, who sold curiosities, and lodged in the
old palace at Florence.

248 Letter 130 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Arlington Street, April 24, 1755.

I don't doubt but you will conclude that this letter, written
so soon after my last, comes to notify a great sea-victory, or
defeat; or that the French are landed in Ireland, and have
taken and fortified Cork; that they have been joined by all
the wild Irish, who have proclaimed the Pretender, and are
charmed with the prospect of being governed by a true
descendant of the Mac-na-O's; or that the King of Prussia,
like an unnatural nephew, has seized his uncle and Schutz in a
post-chaise, and obliged them to hear the rehearsal of a
French opera of his own composing--No such thing! If you will
be guessing, you will guess wrong--all I mean to tell you is,
that thirteen gold fish, caparisoned in coats of mail, as rich
as if Mademoiselle Scuderi had invented their armour, embarked
last Friday on a secret expedition; which, as Mr. Weekes(562)
and the wisest politicians of Twickenham concluded, was
designed against the island of Jersey-but to their consummate
mortification, Captain Chevalier is detained by a law-suit,
and the poor Chinese adventurers are
 now frying under deck below bridge.  In short, if your
governor is to have any gold fish, you must come and manage
their transport yourself.  Did you receive my last letter? If
you did, you will not think it impossible that you should
preside at such an embarkation.

The war is quite gone out of fashion, and seems adjourned to America: though I am disappointed,
I am not surprised.  You know my despair about this eventless age! How pleasant to have lived
in times when one could have been sure every week of being able to write such a paragraph as
this!--"We hear that the Christians who were on their voyage for the recovery of the Holy Land,
have been massacred in Cyprus by the natives, who were provoked at a rape and murder committed
in a church by some young noblemen belonging to the Nuncio"--; or-- "Private letters from Rome
attribute the death of his Holiness to poison, which they pretend was given to him in the sacrament,
by the Cardinal of St. Cecilia, whose mistress he had debauched.  The same letters add, that
this Cardinal stands the fairest for succeeding to the Papal tiara; though a natural son of
the late Pope is supported by the whole interest of Arragon and Naples."  Well! since neither
the Pope nor the most Christian King, will play the devil, I must condescend to tell you flippancies
of less dignity.  There is a young Frenchman here, called Monsieur Herault. Lady Harrington
carried him and his governor to sup with her and Miss Ashe at a tavern t'other night. I have
long said that the French were relapsed into barbarity, and quite ignorant of the world.  You
shall judge: in the first place, the young man was bashful: in the next, the governor, so ignorant
as not to have heard of women of fashion carrying men to a tavern, thought it incumbent upon
him to do the honours for his pupil, who was as modest and as much in a state of nature as
the ladies themselves, and hazarded some familiarities with Lady Harrington.  The consequence
was, that the next morning she sent a card-to both, to desire they would not come to her ball
that evening, to which she had invited them, and to beg the favour of them never to come into
her house again.  Adieu! I am prodigal of my letters, as I hope not to write you many more.

(562) A carpenter at Twickenham, employed by Mr. Walpole.

250 Letter 131 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, May 4, as they call it, but the weather
andthe almanack of my feelings affirm it is December.

I will answer your questions as well as I can, though I must do it shortly, for I write in
a sort of hurry.  Osborn could not find Lord Cutts,(563) but I have discovered another, in
an auction, for which I shall bid for you.  Mr. Muntz has been at Strawberry these three weeks,
tight at work, so your picture is little advanced, but as soon as he returns it shall be finished.
I have chosen the marbles for your tomb; but you told me you had agreed on the price, which
your steward now says I was to settle.  Mr. Bentley still waits the conclusion of the session,
before he can come amongst us again.  Every thing has passed with great secrecy: one would
think the devil was afraid of being tried for his life, for he has not even directed Madame
Bentley to the Old Bailey.  Mr. Mann does not mend, but how should he in such weather?

We wait with impatience for news from Minorca. there is a Prince of Nassau Welbourg, who wants
to marry Princess Caroline of Orange; he is well-looking enough, but a little too tame to cope
with such blood.  He is established at the Duke of Richmond's, with a large train, for two
months.  He was last night at a great ball at my Lady Townshend's, whose Audrey will certainly
get Lord George Lenox.(564)  George Selwyn, t'other night, seeing Lady Euston with Lady Petersham,
said, "There's my Lady Euston, and my Lady us'd to't."  Adieu!

(563) Sir John, created Lord Cutts of Gowran in 1690, distinguished himself at the siege of
Buda: he accompanied King William to England, was made a lieutenant-general, and died without
issue in 1707.  Sir Richard Steele dedicated to him his "Christian Hero."  Lord Cutts married
Mr. Montagu's grandmother; he was her third husband.-E.

(564) Lord George Lenox married Lady Louisa Ker, daughter of the Marquis of Lothian.  Audrey
married Captain Orme.-E.

250 Letter 132 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Arlington Street, May 6, 1755.

My dear sir, Do you get my letters'! or do I write only for the entertainment of the clerks
of the post-office? I have not heard from you this month!  It will be very unlucky if my last
to you has miscarried, as it required an answer, of importance to you, and very necessary to
my satisfaction.

I told you of Lord Poulet's intended motion.  He then repented, and wrote to my Lady Yarmouth
and Mr. Fox to mediate his pardon.  Not contented with his reception, he determined to renew
his intention.  Sir Cordell Firebrace(565) took it up, and intended to move the same address
in the Commons, but was prevented by a sudden adjournment.  However, the last day but one of
the session, Lord Poulet read his motion, which was a speech.  My Lord Chesterfield (who of
all men living seemed to have no business to defend the Duke of Newcastle after much the same
sort of ill usage) said the motion was improper, and moved to adjourn.(566)  T'other Earl said,
"Then pray, my Lords, what is to become of my motion?"  The House burst out a-laughing: he
divided it, but was single.  He then advertised his papers as lost.  Legge, in his punning
style, said, "My Lord Poulet has had a stroke of an apoplexy; he has lost both his speech and
motion." It is now printed; but not having succeeded in prose, he is turned poet--you may guess
how good!

The Duke(567) is at the head of the Regency-you may guess if we are afraid! -Both fleets are
sailed.  The night the King went, there was a magnificent ball and supper at Bedford House.
The Duke was there: he was playing at hazard with a great heap of gold before him; somebody
said, he looked like the prodigal son and the fatted calf both.  In the dessert was a model
of Walton Bridge in glass.  Yesterday I gave a great breakfast at Strawberry Hill to the Bedford
court.  There were the Duke and Duchess, Lord Tavistock and Lady Caroline, my Lord and Lady
Gower, Lady Caroline Egerton, Lady Betty Waldegrave, Lady Mary Coke, Mrs. Pitt,(568) Mr. Churchill
and Lady Mary, Mr. Bap. Leveson,(569) and Colonel Sebright.  The first thing I asked Harry
was, "Does the sun shine?"  It did; and Strawberry was all gold, and all green.  I am not apt
to think people really like it, that is, understand it--, but I think the flattery of yesterday
was sincere; I judge by the notice the Duchess took of your drawings.  Oh!  how you will think
the shades of Strawberry extended! Do you observe the tone of satisfaction with which I say
this, as thinking it near? Mrs. Pitt brought her French horns: we placed them in the corner
of the wood, and it was delightful.  Poyang has great custom: I have lately given Count Perron
some gold fish, which he has carried in his post-chaise to Turin: he has already carried some
before.  The Russian minister has asked me for some too, but I doubt their succeeding there;
unless, according to the universality of my system, every thing is to be found out at last,
and practised every where.

I have got a new book that will divert you, called Anecdotes Litteraires: it is a collection
of stories and bons-mots of all the French writers; but so many of their bons-mots are impertinences,
follies, and vanities, that I have blotted out the title, and written Mis`eres des S`cavants.
It is a triumph for the ignorant.  Gray says, very justly, that learning never should be encouraged,
it only draws out fools from their obscurity; and you know I have always thought a running
footman as meritorious a being as a learned man.  Why is there more merit in having travelled
one's eyes over so many reams of paper than in having carried one's legs over so many acres
of ground?  Adieu, my dear Sir! Pray don't be taken prisoner to France, just when you are expected
at Strawberry!

(565) Member for the county of Suffolk.  He died in 1759.-E.

(566) "It was," writes Lord Chesterfield to Mr. Dayrolles, on the 2d of May, "an indecent,
ungenerous, and malignant question, which I had no mind should either be put or debated, well
knowing the absurd and improper things that would be said both for and against it, and therefore
I moved for the House to adjourn.  As you will imagine that this was agreeable to the King,
it is supposed that I did it to make my court, and people are impatient to see what great employment
I am to have; for that I am to have one, they do not in the least doubt, not having any notion
that any man can take any step without some view of dirty interest.  I do not undeceive them.
I have nothing to fear; I have nothing to ask; and there is nothing that I can or will have."-E.

(567) The Duke of Cumberland.

(568) Wife@, of George Pitt of Strathfieldsaye, and daughter of Sir Henry Atkins.-E.

(569) The Honourable Baptist Leveson, youngest son of the first Lord Gower.

252 Letter 133 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, May 13, 1755.

It is very satisfactory to me, to hear that Miss Montagu was pleased with the day she passed
at Strawberry Hill; but does not it silently reproach you, who will never see it but in winter?
Does she not assure you that there are leaves, and flowers, and verdure?  And why will you
not believe that with those additions it might look pretty, and might make you some small amends
for a day or two purloined from Greatworth?  I wish you would visit it when in its beauty,
and while it is mine! You will not, I flatter Myself, like it so well when it belongs to the
Intendant of Twickenham, when a cockle-shell walk is made across the lawn, and every thing
without doors is made regular, and every thing riant and modern;--for this must be its fate!
Whether its next master is already on board the Brest fleet, I do not pretend to say; but I
scarce think it worth my while to dispose of it' by my will, as I have some apprehensions of
living to see it granted away de par le Roy. My lady Hervey dined there yesterday with the
Rochfords.  I told her, that as she is just going to France, I was unwilling to let her see
it, for if she should like it, she would desire Mademoiselle with whom she lives, to beg it
for her.  Adieu!

252 Letter 134 To George Montagu, Esq. May 19.

It is on the stroke of eleven, and I have but time to tell you, that the King of Prussia has
gained the greatest victory(570) that ever was, except the Archangel Michael's- -King Frederick
has only demolished the dragoness.  He attacked her army in a strong camp on the 6th; suffered
in the beginning of the action much, but took it, with all the tents, baggage, etc. etc two
hundred and fifty pieces of cannon, six thousand prisoners, and they say, Prague since.  The
Austrians have not stopped yet; if you see any man scamper by your house you may venture to
lay hold on him, though he should be a Pandour.  Marshal Schwerin was killed.  Good night!

(570) On the banks of the Moldaw near Prague.

253 Letter 135 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Strawberry Hill, June 10, 1755.

Mr. Muntz(571) is arrived.  I am sorry I can by no means give any commendation to the hasty
step you took about him.  Ten guineas were a great deal too much to advance to him, and must
raise expectations in him that will not at all answer.  You have entered into no written engagement
with him, nor even sent me his receipt for the money.  My good Sir, is this the sample you
give me of the prudence and providence you have learned? I don't love to enter into the particulars
of my own affairs; I will only tell you in one word, that they require great management.  My
endeavours are all employed to serve you; don't, I beg, give me reasons to apprehend that they
will be thrown away.  It is much in obscurity, whether I shall be able to accomplish your re-establishment;
but I shall go on with great discouragement, if I cannot promise myself that you will be a
very different person after your return.  I shall never have it in my power to do twice what
I am now doing for you; and I choose to say the worst beforehand, rather than to reprove you
for indolence and thoughtlessness hereafter, when it may be too late.  Excuse my being so serious,
but I find it is necessary.

You are not displeased with me, I know, even when I pout: you see I am not quite in good-humour
with you, and I don't disguise it; but I have done scolding you for this time. Indeed, I might
as well continue it; for I have nothing else to talk of but Strawberry, and of that subject
you must be well wearied.  I believe she alluded to my disposition to pout, rather than meant
to compliment me, when my Lady Townshend said to somebody t'other day, who told her how well
Mrs. Leneve was, and in spirits, "Oh! she must be in spirits: why, she lives with Mr. Walpole,
who is spirit of hartshorn!"

Princess Emily has been here:--Liked it?--Oh no!--I don't wonder; I never liked St. James'-,.
She was so inquisitive and so curious in prying into the very offices and servants' rooms,
that her Captain Bateman was sensible of it, and begged Catherine not to mention it.  he addressed
himself well, if he hoped to meet with taciturnity!  Catherine immediately ran down to the
pond, and whispered to all the reeds, "Lord! that a princess should be such a gossip!"  In
short, Strawberry Hill is the puppet-show of the times.

I have lately bought two more portraits of personages in Grammont, Harry Jermyn(572) and Chiffinch:(573)
my Arlington Street is so full of portraits, that I shall scarce find room for Mr. Muntz's works.

Wednesday, 11th.

I was prevented from finishing my letter yesterday, by what do you think? By no less magnificent
a circumstance than a deluge.  We have had an extraordinary drought, no grass, no leaves. no
flowers; not a white rose for the festival of yesterday!  About four arrived such a flood,
that we could not see out of the windows: the whole lawn was a lake, though situated on so
high an Ararat: presently it broke through the leads, drowned the pretty blue bedchamber, passed
through ceilings and floors into the little parlour, terrified Harry, and opened all Catherine's
water-gates and speech-gates.  I had but just time to collect two dogs, a couple of sheep,
a pair of bantams, and a brace of gold fish; for, in the haste of my zeal to imitate my ancestor
Noah, I forgot that fish would not easily be drowned.  In short, if you chance to spy a little
ark with pinnacles sailing towards Jersey, open the skylight, and you will find some of your
acquaintance.  You never saw such desolation! A pigeon brings word that Mabland has fared still
worse: it never came into my head before, that a rainbow-office for insuring against water
might be very necessary.  This is a true account of the late deluge. Witness our hands Horace
Noah. Catherine Noah, her mark. Harry Shem. Louis Japhet. Peter Ham, etc.

I was going to seal my letter, and thought I should scarce have any thing more important to
tell you than the history of the flood, when a most extraordinary piece of news indeed arrived--nothing
less than a new gunpowder plot-last Monday was to be the fatal day.  There was a ball at Kew--Vanneschi
and his son, directors of the Opera, two English lords, and two Scotch lords, are in confinement
at Justice Fielding's. This is exactly all I know of the matter; and this -weighty intelligence
is brought by the waterman from my housemaid in Arlington Street, who sent Harry word that
the town is in an uproar; and to confirm it, the waterman says he heard the same thing at Hungerford-stairs.
I took the liberty to represent to Harry, that the ball at Kew was this day se'nnight for the
Prince's birthday; that, as the Duke was at it, I imagined the Scotch lords would rather have
chosen that day for the execution of their tragedy; that I believe Vanneschi's son was a child;
and that peers are generally confined at the Tower, not at Justice Fielding's; besides, that
we are much nearer to Kew than Hungerford-stairs are but Harry, who has not at all recovered
the deluge, is extremely disposed to think Vanneschi very like Guy Fawkes; and is so persuaded
that so dreadful a story could not be invented, that I have been forced to believe it too:
and in the course of our reasoning and guessing, I told him, that though I could not fix upon
all four, I was persuaded that the late Lord Lovat who was beheaded must be one of the Scotch
peers, and Lord Anson's son who is not begot, one of the English.  I was afraid he would think
I treated so serious a business too ludicrously, if I had hinted at the scene of distressed
friendship that would be occasioned by Lord Hardwicke's examining his intimate Vanneschi. 
Adieu! my dear Sir.  Mr. Fox and Lady Caroline, and Lord and Lady Kildare, are to dine here
to-day; and if they tell Harry or me any more of the plot you shall know it.

Wednesday night.

