One day the foresters succeeded in driving a great herd of red-deer, with their magnificent
antlers, across the heights, so that the Queen had a passing view of them. On another day she
was able to join in the deer-stalking, scrambling for hours in the wake of the hunters, among
the rocks and heather, when she was not "allowed," as she described it, to speak above a whisper,
in case she should spoil the sport. It was a brief taste of an ideal, open-air, unsophisticated
life, upon which there was no intrusion, except when stolid sightseers flocked to the little
parish church of Blair Athol for the chance of "seeing royalty at its prayers, and hardly a
regret beyond the lack of time to sketch the groups of keepers and dogs, the deer, the mountains.

The Queen, as usual, enjoyed and admired everything there was to admire--the pretty jackets
or "short gowns" of the rustic maidens; the "burns," clear as glass; the mossy stones; the
peeps between the trees; the depth of the shadows; the corn-cutting or "shearing," when a patch
of yellow oats broke the purple shadow of the moor; Ben-y-Ghlo standing like a mighty sentinel
commanding the course of the Garry, as when many a lad "with his bonnet and white cockade,"
sped with fleet foot by the flashing waters, "leaving his mountains to follow Prince Charlie;"
Chrianean, where the eagles sometimes sat; the sunsets when the sky was "crimson, golden red,
and blue," and the hills "looked purple and lilac," till the hues grew softer and the outlines
dimmer. Prince Albert, an ardent admirer of natural scenery, was in ecstasy with the mountain
landscape. But her Majesty has already permitted her people to share in the halcyon days of
those Highland tours.

On the homeward journey to Dundee, Lord Glenlyon and his brother, Captain Murray, performed
the loyal feat of riding fifty miles, the whole distance from Blair, by the Queen's carriage.

CHAPTER XX. LOUIS PHILIPPE'S VISIT.--THE OPENING OF THE ROYAL EXCHANGE.

The Queen and the Prince returned to Windsor to receive a visit from Louis Philippe. The King,
who had spent part of his exiled youth in England, had not been back since 1815, when he took
refuge there again during "the Hundred Days," after Napoleon's return from Elba and Louis XVIII.'s
withdrawal to Ghent, till the battle of Waterloo restored the heads of the Bourbon and Orleans
families to the Tuileries and the Palais Royal.

The King arrived on the 6th of October, accompanied by his son, the Duc de Montpensier, M.
Guizot, and a numerous suite. They had sailed from Treport in the steamer Gomer, attended by
three other, steamers, and arrived at Portsmouth, where the Corporation came on board to present
an address.

The King answered in English, with much effusion and affability, shaking hands with the whole
batch of magistrates, telling those who were too slow in removing their white gloves, "Oh!
never mind your gloves, gentlemen," and recalling a former visit to Portsmouth when he was
an exile. Prince Albert and the Duke of Wellington went on board the steamer, when the enthusiastic
elderly gentleman saluted the Prince on both cheeks, to which he submitted, though he did not
reply in kind, contenting himself with shaking his guest by the hand. It would seem as if the
Prince had some perception of the wiliness which was one quality of the big, bluff citizen
king, and of the discretion which must be practised in dealing with him, no less than with
the Russian bear. For in writing from Blair to a kinswoman, in anticipation of the visit, the
writer states, with a dash of humour, that after a preliminary training on the sea, the bold
deerstalker and mountaineer would have to transform himself into a courtier to receive and
entertain a King of the French, and play the part of a staid and astute diplomatist.

The king wore the French uniform of a Lieutenant-General--blue with red facings. The moment
he ascended the stairs of the jetty, he turned with his hand on his heart and bowed to the
multitude of spectators.

The Queen met her visitor in the grand vestibule fronting George the Fourth's Gate at Windsor
Castle; the Duchess of Kent and the ladies of the Household, Sir Robert Peel and Lord Liverpool,
and the officers of the Household, were with her Majesty. The moment the carriage drew up,
the Queen advanced and extended her arms to her father's old friend. The two sovereigns embraced,
and she led the way to the suite of rooms which had been previously occupied by the Emperor
of Russia.

Lady Lyttelton has supplied her version of the arrival. "At two o'clock he arrived, this curious
king, worth seeing if ever a body was. The Queen having graciously permitted me to be present,
I joined the Court in the corridor, and we waited an hour, and then the Queen of England came
out of her room to go and receive the King of France--the first time in history! Her Majesty
had not long to wait (in the armoury, as she received him in the State apartments, his own
private rooms; very civil); and from the armoury, amidst all the old trophies and knights'
armour, and Nelson's bust, and Marlborough's flag, and Wellington's, we saw the first of the
escort enter, the Quadrangle, and down flew the Queen, and we after her, to the outside of
the door on the pavement of the Quadrangle, just in time to see the escort clattering up and
the carriage close behind. The old man was much moved, I think, and his hand rather shook as
he alighted, his hat quite off, and grey hair seen. His countenance is striking--much better
than the portraits--and his embrace of the Queen was very parental, and nice. Montpensier is
a handsome youth, and the courtiers and ministers very well-looking, grave, gentlemenlike people.
It was a striking piece of real history--made one feel and think much."

"He is the first king of France who comes on a visit to the sovereign of this country," wrote
the Queen in her Journal.... "The King said, as he went up the grand staircase to his apartments,
'Heavens! how beautiful!'.... I never saw anybody more pleased or more amused in looking at
every picture, every bust. He knew every bust, and knew everything about everybody here in
a most wonderful way. Such a memory! such activity! It is a pleasure to show him anything,
as he is so pleased and interested. He is enchanted with the Castle, and repeated to me again
and again (as did also his people) how delighted he was to be here; how he had feared that
what he had so earnestly wished since I came to the throne would not take place, and 'Heavens!
what a pleasure it is to me to give you my arm!'" The dinner was comparatively private, in
the Queen's dining-room.

On the 8th of the month the whole royal party went on a little pilgrimage to Claremont and
Twickenham, to the house in which Louis Philippe, as Duc d'Orleans, had resided, and wound
up the day by a great banquet in St. George's Hall. The Queen records of this excursion, "We
proceeded by Staines, where the King recognised the inn and everything, to Twickenham, where
we drove up to the house where he used to live, and where Lord and Lady Mornington, who received
us, are now living. It is a very pretty house, much embellished since the King lived there,
but otherwise much the same, and he seemed greatly pleased to see it again. He walked round
the garden, in spite of the heavy shower which had just fallen.... The King himself directed
the postillion which way to go to pass by the house where he lived for five years with his
poor brothers, before his marriage. From here we drove to Hampton Court, where we walked over
Wolsey's Hall and all the rooms. The King remained a long time in them, looking at the pictures,
and marking on the catalogue numbers of those which he intended to have copied for Versailles.
We then drove to Claremont. Here we got out and lunched, and after luncheon took a hurried
walk in the grounds.... We left Claremont after four, and reached Windsor at a little before six."

Of the conversation during the banquet her Majesty wrote, "He talked to me of the time when
he was 'in a school in the Grisons, a teacher merely,' receiving twenty pence a day, having
to brush his own boots, and under the name of Chabot. What an eventful life his has been!"
On the 9th there was an installation of a Knight of the Garter. Sir Theodore Martin reminds
his readers, 'with regard to the ceremony, that it "must have been pregnant with suggestions
to all present who remembered that the Order had been instituted by Edward III. after the battle
of Cressy, and that its earliest knights were the Black Prince and his companions, whose prowess
had been so fatal to France. "In the Throne-room, in a State chair, sat Queen Victoria, in
the (blue velvet) mantle of the Order, its motto inscribed on a bracelet that encircled her
arm; a diamond tiara on her head. The chair of State by her side was vacant. Round the table
before her sat the knights-companions of the highest rank; on the steps of the throne behind
the Queen's chair were seated the high civil ministers of the two sovereigns, and some officers
of the French suite. At the opposite end of the room were the royal ladies (members of the
royal family) and the two young Princes (the Duc de Montpensier and Prince Edward of Saxe-Weimar)
visiting at the Castle.... The King, dressed in a uniform of dark blue and gold, was introduced
by Prince Albert and the Duke of Cambridge, preceded by Garter King-at-Arms, the Queen and
the knights all standing. The sovereign (Queen Victoria) in French announced the election.
The declaration having been pronounced by the Chancellor of the Order, the new knight was invested
by the Queen and Prince Albert with the Garter and the George, and received the accolade."

"Albert then placed the Garter round the King's leg," wrote the Queen. "I pulled it through
while the admonition was being read, and the King said to me, 'I wish to kiss this hand,' which
he did afterwards, and I embraced him."

"Taking the King's arm, her Majesty conducted him in state to his own apartments," the Annual
Register ends its account of an interesting episode.

"At four o'clock we again went over to the King's room," wrote the Queen, "and I placed at
his feet a large cup representing St. George and the dragon, with which he was very much pleased."
That night there was a splendid banquet in St. George's Hall to commemorate the installment.

On the 12th the King was to have left, but first the Corporation of London went down to Windsor
in civic state to present Louis Philippe with an address. This unusual compliment from the
City was due partly to the general satisfaction which the visit, with, its promise of continued
friendly relations between England and France, gave to the whole country, partly to the circumstance
that it was judged inadmissible, in view of the susceptibility of the French nation, for the
King of France to pay a formal visit to London, since the Queen of England, in her recent trip
to Treport, had not gone to Paris. A somewhat comical contretemps occurred in the preparation
of the reply to this address. It was written by the person who usually acted for the King in
such matters, and brought to him shortly before the arrival of the Corporation, when Louis
Philippe found to his disgust that the speech was so French in spirit, and expressed in such
bad English, he could not hope to make it understood. "It is deplorable.... It is cruel," cried
the mortified King. "And to send it to me at one o'clock! They will be here immediately!" No
time was to be lost; the King had to sit down and, with the help of his host and hostess, who
had come to his rooms opportunely, to write out a more suitable answer.

In M. Guizot's "Memoirs" he tells a curious incident of this visit. On retiring to his room
at night he lost his way, and appeared to wander, as Baroness Bunsen feared she might do on
a similar occasion, along miles of corridors and stairs. At last, believing he recognised his
room-door, he turned the handle, but immediately withdrew, on getting a glimpse of a lady seated
at a toilet-table, with a maid busy about her mistress's hair. It was not till next day that
from some smiling words addressed to him by the Queen the horrified statesman discovered he
had been guilty of an invasion of the royal apartments.

Louis Philippe started on his homeward journey accompanied by her Majesty and Prince Albert,
who were to go on board the Gomer and there take leave of their guest. Afterwards they were
to embark in the royal yacht and cross to the Isle of Wight. But the stormy weather overturned
all these plans. The swell in the sea was so great that it was feared the King could not land
at Treport. Eventually he parted from the Queen and the Prince on shore, returned in the evening
to London, went to New Cross--where he found the station on fire--proceeded by train to Dover,
and sailed next day, amidst wind and rain, in French steamer to Calais. In order to soften
the disappointment to the officers and crew of the Gomer, the Queen and Prince Albert breakfasted
on board that vessel before they proceeded to the Isle of Wight.

The cause of the cruise of the Queen and the Prince at this season was the wish to see for
themselves the house and grounds of Osborne, belonging to Lady Isabella Blatchford. They were
to be sold, and had been, suggested by Sir Robert Peel to her Majesty and the Prince as exactly
constituted to form the retired yet not too remote country and seaside home--not palace, for
which the royal couple were looking out. It is unnecessary to say that the personal visit was
quite satisfactory, though the purchase was not made till some months later. The engraving
gives a pleasant idea of the Osborne of to-day, with its double towers--seen out at sea--its
terraces, and its fountains.

On the 21st of October the Queen and the Prince happened to be yachting off Portsmouth. It
was the anniversary of the battle of Trafalgar, and the Victory lay in the roads, adorned with
wreaths and garlands from stem to stern. The Queen expressed her desire to visit the ship.
She went at once to the quarter-deck to see the spot where Nelson fell. It is marked by a brass
plate with an inscription, on this day surrounded by a wreath of laurel. The Queen gazed in
silence, the tears rising to her eyes. Then she plucked a couple of leaves from the laurel
wreath, and asked to be shown the cabin in which Nelson died. The cockpit was lit up while
the party were inspecting the poop of the Victory, which bears the words of the great Admiral's
last signal, "England expects every man to do his duty." In the cockpit, long associated with
merry, mischievous sprites of "middies," there had been for many a year the representation
of a funeral urn, with the sentence, "Here Nelson died." The visitors looked at the spot without
speaking. There, on this very day in the fast-receding past, amidst the hardly subdued din
of a great naval battle, the dying hero with his failing breath made the brief, tender appeal
to his faithful captain, "Kiss me, Hardy." The Queen requested that there might be no firing
when she left the ship, and was sped on her way only by "the three tremendous British cheers
of the sailors manning the yards."

On the 28th of October the great civic ceremonies of the opening of the new Royal Exchange
by the Queen took place. The morning had been foggy, but cleared up into brilliant autumn sunshine,
a happy instance of the Queen's weather, when a considerable part of the programme, as a matter
of necessity, was enacted under the open sky.

Crowds almost as great as on the day of the Coronation six years before occupied the line of
route, swarming in St. James's Park and St. Paul's Churchyard and at Charing Cross, while the
Poultry--deriving its name from the circumstance that it was once filled with poulterers' shops--was
reserved for the Livery of the City Companies. Every window which could command the passing
of the pageant was filled with spectators. The Queen, in her State coach, drawn by her cream-coloured
horses, drove through the marble arch at Buckingham Palace about eleven o'clock. She was accompanied
by Prince Albert, and attended by Lady Canning in the absence of the Duchess of Buccleugh,
Mistress of the Robes, and by the Earl of Jersey, Master of the Horse. The great officers of
her Household in long procession preceded her, and she was followed by an escort of Life Guards.
At this time the Queen's popularity was a very active principle, though not more heartfelt
and abiding than it is to-day. As she appeared, it is said the words "God bless you," uttered
by some loyal subject, were caught up and passed from lip to lip, running through the vast
concourse. The simply-clad lady of the Highlands was magnificently dressed to-day, to do honour
to her City of London, in white satin and silver tissue, sparkling with jewels. On her left
side she wore the star of the Order of the Garter, and round her left arm the Garter itself,
with the motto set in diamonds. She had at the back of her head a miniature crown entirely
composed of brilliants, while above her forehead she wore a diamond tiara. Prince Albert was
in the uniform of a colonel of artillery.

The City magnates as usual had gathered at Child's Bank, from which they went to Temple Bar.
The common councilmen were in their mazarine-blue cloaks and cocked hats, the aldermen in their
scarlet robes, the Lord Mayor in a robe of crimson velvet, with a collar of SS, and, strange
to say, a Spanish hat and feather. In truth a goodly show. The gates of Temple Bar, which had
been previously closed, were thrown open to admit the royal procession. The Queen's carriage
drew up. The Lord Mayor advanced on foot before the spikes on which many a traitor's head had
been stuck, and with a profound reverence offered to her Majesty the City sword, which, the
Queen touched as a sign of acceptance, and then waved it back to the Lord Mayor. Nothing can
read better, but accidents will happen.

From Lady Bloomfield, on the authority of the late Sir Robert Peel, who told the story in the
maid-of-honour's hearing, we have additional particulars. The Lord Mayor, in his Spanish hat
and feather, was at this very moment in as awkward a predicament as ever befell an unlucky
chief magistrate. He had drawn on a pair of jack-boots over his shoes and stockings, to keep
the mud off till the moment of action. Unfortunately the boots proved too tight, and could
not be got off when the sign was given that the Queen was coming. One of the victim's spurs
caught in the fur trimming of an alderman's robe, and rendered the confusion worse. The Lord
Mayor stood with a leg out, and several men tugging at his boot. In the meantime the Queen
was coming nearer and nearer; she was only a few paces off, while the representative of her
good City of London struggled in an agony with one boot on and one off. At last he became beside
himself, and cried wildly, "For God's sake put that boot on again." He only got it on in time
to make his obeisance to her Majesty. He had to wear the detestable boots till the banquet;
just before it, he was successfully stripped of his encumbrances.

