"My mama was de spinner so I has plenty shirts and some britches, and we raises indigo on de
place and makes dye of it. We never wore no shoes in de summer and some winters neither. We
has a good pair of pants and shirt we wears Sundays and holidays and was married in.

"De way dey done at weddings dem days, you picks out a girl and tell your boss. If she was
from another plantation you had to git her bosses 'mission and den dey tells you to come up
dat night and git hitched up. They says to de girl, 'You's love dis man?' Dey says to de man,
'You loves dis girl?' If you say you don't know, it's all off, but if you say yes, dey brings
in de broom and holds it 'bout a foot off de floor and say to you to jump over. Den he says
you's married. If either of you stumps you toe on de broom, dat mean you got trouble comin'
'tween you, so you sho' jumps high.

"My massa was good to us. He lived in a log house with a floor and was all fixed up with pretty
furniture and mirrors and silver on de table. De missus was little and frail, but she was good
to us and so was de massa. He wasn't no hand to whip like some of he neighbors. Dey would tied
de slaves' hands to a pole and whip de blood out of them. Dey was whipped for runnin' away.

"I knowed a slave call Ben Bradley and he was sold on de auction block and his massa chained
him hand and foot and started for Texas. Dey got to de Red River and was crossin' and de chains
helt him down and he never came up. And I have a uncle what run off and dey took a pack of
hounds--a pack were twelve--and dey got on his trail and I heared dem runnin' him. Dey run
him three days and nights and took a gun loaded with buck shot but was sposed not to shoot
above de legs. Dey come back and said he got away, but some boys was out huntin' and finds
him and he been shot four times with buck shot.

"De only time we got to rest was Sunday and de fourth of July and Christmas, and one day Thanksgiving.
We got de big dinners on holidays. After supper was have corn shuckings, or on rainy days,
and sometimes we shucks 500 bushels. We allus picked de cotton in big baskets, and when we
gits it all picked we spreads on big and has a celebration.

"I was in Texas when de war broke out and I hauls corn lots of times to de gin where was de
soldier camp, and I helped cook awhile and would have been in de battle of Vicksburg only dey
takes another man 'stead of me and he gits kilt. I's glad I's a sorry cook, or I'd got kilt
'stead of him.

420262

     SIMP CAMPBELL was born January 1860, in Harrison County, Texas, He
     belonged to W.L. Sloan and stayed with him until 1883, when Simp
     married and moved to Marshall. He and his wife live in Gregg
     Addition, Marshall, Texas, and Simp works as porter for a loan
     company.

"My name is Simpson Campbell, but everybody, white and black, calls me Simp. I's born right
here in Harrison County, on Bill Sloan's place, nine miles northwest of Marshall. I got in
on the last five years of slavery.

"Pappy was Lewis Campbell, and he was sold by the Florida Campbells to Marse Sloan and fotched
to Texas, but he allus kep' the Campbell name. Mammy was Mariah and the Sloans brung her out
of South Carolina. She raised a passel of chillen. Besides me there was Flint, Albert and Clinton
of the boys, and--let me count--Dinah, Clandy, Mary, Lula, Liza, Hannah, Matilda and Millie
of the girls.

"The Sloans lived in a big house, but it wasn't no shanty. They was fixed 'bout as good as
anybody in the county and driv as good hosses and rigs as anybody. They wasn't a mean streak
in the whole Sloan family.

"The slave quarters sot in rows right down in the field from the big house. They had beds made
to the wall, and all the cookin' was on the fireplace. We raised all our meat and corn and
garden truck right there on the place and Marse Sloan brung wheat and other rations from Shreveport.
The nigger women spinned all the cloth and pappy made shoes by hand, when they kilt a beef.
The beef was dried and jetted and hung in the smokehouse.

"Marse's place civered a thousand acres and he had over a hunderd slaves, with a overseer,
Johnson, and a nigger driver. Us niggers was treated well but the overseer had order to whip
us for fightin'. If the nigger driver hit too many licks, the overseer sold him off the place.

"We worked from four till six and done a task after that, and sot round and talked till nine
and then had to go to bed. On Saturday night you'd hear them fiddles and banjoes playin' and
the niggers singin'. All them music gadgets was homemade. The banjoes was made of round pieces
of wood, civered with sheepskin and strung with catgut strings.

"They wasn't no school but Marse Bill larnt some his niggers readin' and writin' so we could
use them bookin' cotton in the field and sich like. They was a church on the Sloan place and
white preachers done most the 'xhorting. Mammy allus say the cullud preachers had to preach
what they's told--obey you master and missus.

"I seed Yankee sojers and wagons comin' home from Mansfield. Marse Tom sot us free right after
surrender, but my folks stayed on with him till he died, in 1906. I lef when I's twenty-three
and marries and made a livin' from public work in Marshall all my life. I worked as day laborer
and raised two boys and two girls and the boys is farmin' right here in the county and doin' well.

"When I's eighteen they got up a 'mendment to the Constitution and got out a "People's Party
Ticket." It was a Democratic ticket and control by Southerners. They told us niggers if we'd
vote that ticket we'd be rec'nized as white folks, but I didn't 'lieve a word of it. Old Man
Sloan told all his niggers that and they all voted that ticket but two--that was Charley Tang
and Simp Campbell.

"I 'lieve the young race of our people is progressin' fine. If they had priv'lege to use they
educations, they'd make more progress, but the color line holds them back.

420106

     JAMES CAPE, centenarian, now living in a dilapidated little shack
     in the rear of the stockyards in Fort Worth, Texas, was born a
     slave to Mr. Bob Houston, who owned a large ranch in southeast
     Texas. James' parents came direct from Africa into slavery. James
     spent his youth as a cowboy, fought in the Confederate army, was
     wounded and has an ugly shoulder scar. After the war, James
     unknowingly took a job with the outlaw, Jesse James, for whom he
     worked three years, in Missouri. He then came back to Texas, and
     worked in the stockyards until 1928. Documentary proof of James'
     age is lacking, but various facts told him by his parents and
     others lead him to think he must be over 100 years old.

"I's bo'n in yonder southeast Texas and I don' know what month or de year for sho', but 'twas
more dan 100 years ago. My mammy and pappy was bo'n in Africa, dats what dey's tol' me. Dey
was owned by Marster Bob Houston and him had de ranch down dere, whar dey have cattle and hosses.

"When I's old 'nough to set on de hoss, dey larned me to ride, tendin' hosses. 'Cause I's good
hoss rider, dey uses me all de time gwine after hosses. I goes with dem to Mexico. We crosses
de river lots of times. I 'members once when we was a drivin' 'bout 200 hosses north'ards.
Dey was a bad hail storm comes into de face of de herd and dat herd turns and starts de other
way. Dere was five of us riders and we had to keep dem hosses from scatterment. I was de leader
and do you know what happens to dis nigger if my hoss stumbles? Right dere's whar I'd still
be! Marster give me a new saddle for savin' de hosses.

"One day Marster Bob comes to me and says, 'Jim, how you like to jine de army?' You see, de
war had started. I says to him, 'What does I have to do?' And he says, 'Tend hosses and ride
'em.' I was young den and thought it would be lots of fun, so I says I'd go. So de first thing
I knows, I's in de army away off east from here, somewhar dis side of St. Louis and in Tennessee
and Arkansas and other places. I goes in de army 'stead of Dr. Carroll.

"After I gits in de army, it wasn' so much fun, 'cause tendin' hosses and ridin' wasn' all
I does. No, sar, I has to do shootin' and git shooted at! One time we stops de train, takes
Yankee money and lots of other things off dat train. Dat was way up de other side of Tennessee.

"You's heard of de battle of Independence? Dat's whar we fights for three days and nights.
I's not tendin' hosses dat time. Dey gives me a rifle and sends me up front fightin', when
we wasn' running'. We does a heap of runnin' and dat suits dis nigger. I could do dat better'n
advance. When de order comes to 'treat, I's all ready.

"I gits shot in de shoulder in dat fight and lots of our soldiers gits killed and we loses
our supply, jus' leaves it and runs. 'Nother time we fights two days and nights and de Yankees
was bad dat time, too, and we had to run through de river. I sho' thought I's gwine git drowned
den. Dat's de time we tries to git in St. Louis, but de Yankee mans stop us.

"I's free after de war and goes back to Texas, to Gonzales County, and gits a job doin' cowboy
work for Marster Ross herdin' cattle. And right dere's whar I's lucky for not gittin' in jail
or hanged. It was dis way: I's in town and dat man, Ross, says to me, 'I unnerstan' you's a
good cowhand,' and he hires me and takes me way out. No house for miles 'fore we comes to de
ranch with cattle and I goes to work. After I's workin' a while, I wonders how come dey brings
in sich fine steers so often and I says to myself, 'Marster Ross mus' have heaps of money for
to buy all dem steers.' Dey pays no 'tention to de raisin' of cattle, jus' brings 'em in and
drives dem 'way.

"One time Marster Ross and six mens was gone a week and when dey comes back, one of 'em was
missin'. Dey had no steers dat time and dey talks 'bout gittin' frusterated and how one man
gits shot. I says to myself, 'What for was dey chased and shot at?' Den I 'members Marster
Bob Houston done tol' me 'bout rustlers and how dey's hanged when dey's caught, and I knows
den dat's how come all dem fine steers is driv in and out all de time. But how to git 'way,
dere's de puzzlement. I not know which way to go and dere's no houses anywhere near. I keeps
gittin' scarter, and ever' time somebody comes, I thinks its de law. But Marster Ross drives
de cattle north and I says to him, 'I's good hand at de drive. Kin I go with you nex' time
you goes north?' And not long after dat we starts and we gits to Kansas City. After Marster
Ross gets shut of de critters, he says. 'We'll res' for couple days, den starts back.' I says
to me, 'Not dis nigger.'

"I sneaks 'way and was settin' on a bench when 'long comes a white man and he's tall, had dark
hair and was fine lookin'. He says to me, 'Is you a cowhand?' So I tells him I is, and he says
he wants a hand on his farm in Missouri and he says, 'Come with me.' He tells me his name was
James and takes me to his farm whar I tends cattle and hosses for three years and he pays me
well. He gives me more'n I earns. After three years I leaves, but not 'cause I larned he was
outlaw, 'cause I larned dat long time afterwa'ds. I's lonesome for Texas and dat's how I comes
to Fort Worth and here's whar I's stayed ever' since.

"I's married 'bout 40 years ago to a woman dat had eight chillens. We sep'rated 'cause dem
chillens cause arg'ments. I can fight one, but not de army.

420180

     RICHARD CARRUTHERS, 100 year old ex-slave, was born in Memphis,
     Tennessee. Mr. Billy Coats bought him and his mother and brought
     them to Bastrop Co., Texas. He came to Houston 20 years ago and
     lives in a negro settlement known as Acres Home, about 8 miles
     northeast of Houston. It is a wooded section, with a clearing here
     and there for a Negro shack and plots of ground for growing
     "victuals and co'n."

"I wants to tell the Gospel truf. My mammy's name was Melia Carruthers and my papa's name was
Max. My papa's papa's name was Carruthers, too. My brothers names was Charlie and Frank and
Willie and John and Tom and Adam.

"When I was still little Mr. Billy Coats bought my mama and us and with about 500 of his slaves
we set out to come to Texas. We goes to Bastrop County and starts to work. My old missy--her
name was Missy Myra--was 99 year old and her head was bald as a egg and had wens on it as big
as eggs, too.

"In them days the boss men had good houses but the niggers had log cabins and they burned down
oftentimes. The chimney would cotch fire, 'cause it was made out of sticks and clay and moss.
Many the time we have to git up at midnight and push the chimney 'way from the house to keep
the house from burnin' up.

"The chairs was mostly chunks of cordwood put on end, or slabs, just rough, and the beds was
built like scaffoldin'. We made a sort of mattress out of corn shucks or moss.

"My missy, she was good, but the overseer, he rough. His temper born of the debbil, himse'f.
His name was Tom Hill, but us called him 'Debbil Hill.'

Old Debbil Hill, he used to whup me and the other niggers if we don't jump quick enough when
he holler and he stake us out like you stake out a hide and whup till we bleed. Many the time
I set down and made a eight-plait whup, so he could whup from the heels to the back of the
head 'til he figger he get the proper ret'ibution. Sometime he take salt and rub on the nigger
so he smart and burn proper and suffer mis'ry. They was a caliboose right on the plantation,
what look like a ice-house, and it was sho' bad to git locked up in it.

"Us got provisions 'lowanced to us every Saturday night. If you had two in the family, they
'lowanced you one-half gallon 'lasses and 12 to 15 pounds bacon and a peck of meal. We have
to take the meal and parch it and make coffee out of it. We had our flours. One of them we
called biscuit flour and we called it 'shorts.' We had rye and wheat and buck grain.

"If they didn't provision you 'nough, you jus' had to slip 'round and git a chicken. That easy
'nough, but grabbin' a pig a sho' 'nough problem. You have to cotch him by the snoot so he
won't squeal, and clomp him tight while you knife him. That ain't stealin', is it? You has
to keep right on workin' in the field, if you ain't 'lowanced 'nough, and no nigger like to
work with his belly groanin'.

"When the white preacher come he preach and pick up his Bible and claim he gittin the text
right out from the good Book and he preach: 'The Lord say, don't you niggers steal chickens
from your missus. Don't you steal YOUR MARSTER'S hawgs.' That would be all he preach.

"Us niggers used to have a prayin' ground down in the hollow and sometime we come out of the
field, between 11 and 12 at night, scorchin' and burnin' up with nothin' to eat, and we wants
to ask the good Lawd to have mercy. We puts grease in a snuff pan or bottle and make a lamp.
We takes a pine torch, too, and goes down in the hollow to pray. Some gits so joyous they starts
to holler loud and we has to stop up they mouth. I see niggers git so full of the Lawd and
so happy they draps unconscious.

"I kep' a eye on the niggers down in the cotton patch. Sometime they lazy 'round and if I see
the overseer comin' from the big house I sings a song to warn 'em, so they not git whupped,
and it go like this:

"'Hold up, hold up, American Spirit! Hold up, hold up, H-O-O-O-O-O-O-O!'

