Her eyebrows rose a little. "I think you are mistaken, aren't you?"

"It is possible I am; but if he is working for the company, it is pretty certain that I am
not," he continued, heaping mystification on her. "However, that will not prevent my delivering
the message. By the way, may I ask which shoulder?"

"Shoulder!"

"Which shoulder is sprung."

"Oh, of course! The right shoulder, and it is sprung pretty badly, too, Cousin Lance says.
How very stupid of me to ride over here for a freight wreck!"

McCloud felt humiliated at having nothing better worth while to offer. "It was a very bad one,"
he ventured.

"But not of the kind I can be of any help at, I fear."

McCloud smiled. "We are certainly short of help."

Dicksie brought her horse's head around. She felt again of the girth as she replied, "Not such
as I can supply, I'm afraid." And with the words she stepped away, as if preparing to mount.

McCloud intervened. "I hope you won't go away without resting your horse. The sun is so hot.
Mayn't I offer you some sort of refreshment?"

Dicksie Dunning thought not.

"The sun is very warm," persisted McCloud.

Dicksie smoothed her gauntlet in the assured manner natural to her. "I am pretty well used to it."

But McCloud held on. "Several cars of fruit were destroyed in the wreck. I can offer you any
quantity of grapes--crates of them are spoiling over there--and pears."

"Thank you, I am just from luncheon."

"And I have cooled water in the car. I hope you won't refuse that, so far out in the desert."

Dicksie laughed a little. "Do you call this far? I don't; and I don't call this desert by any
means. Thank you ever so much for the water, but I'm not in the least thirsty."

"It was kind of you even to think of extending help. I wish you would let me send some fruit
over to your ranch. It is only spoiling here."

Dicksie stroked the neck of her horse. "It is about eighteen miles to the ranch house."

"I don't call that far."

"Oh, it isn't," she returned hastily, professing not to notice the look that went with the
words, "except for perishable things!" Then, as if acknowledging her disadvantage, she added,
swinging her bridle-rein around, "I am under obligations for the offer, just the same."

"At least, won't you let your horse drink?" McCloud threw the force of an appeal into his words,
and Dicksie stopped her preparations and appeared to waver.

"Jim is pretty thirsty, I suppose. Have you plenty of water?"

"A tender full. Had I better lead him down while you wait up on the hill in the shade?"

"Can't I ride him down?"

"It would be pretty rough riding."

"Oh, Jim goes anywhere," she said, with her attractive indifference to situations. "If you
don't mind helping me mount."

"With pleasure."

She stood waiting for his hand, and McCloud stood, not knowing just what to do. She glanced
at him expectantly. The sun grew intensely hot.

"You will have to show me how," he stammered at last.

"Don't you know?"

He mentally cursed the technical education that left him helpless at such a moment, but it
was useless to pretend. "Frankly, I don't!"

"Just give me your hand. Oh, not in that way! But never mind, I'll walk," she suggested, catching
up her skirt.

"The rocks will cut your boots all to pieces. Suppose you tell me what to do this once," he
said, assuming some confidence. "I'll never forget."

"Why, if you will just give me your hand for my foot, I can manage, you know."

He did not know, but she lifted her skirt graciously, and her crushed boot rested easily for
a moment in his hand. She rose in the air above him before he could well comprehend. He felt
the quick spring from his supporting hand, and it was an instant of exhilaration. Then she
balanced herself with a flushed laugh in the saddle, and he guided her ahead among the loose
rocks, the horse nosing at his elbow as they picked their way.

Crossing the track, they gained better ground. As they reached the switch and passed a box
car, Jim shied, and Dicksie spoke sharply to him. McCloud turned.

In the shade of the car lay the tramp.

"That man lying there frightened him," explained Dicksie. "Oh," she exclaimed suddenly, "he
has been hurt!" She turned away her head. "Is that the man who was in the wreck?"

"Yes."

"Do something for him. He must be suffering terribly."

"The men gave him some water awhile ago, and when we moved him into the shade we thought he
was dead."

"He isn't dead yet!" Dicksie's face, still averted, had grown white. "I saw him move. Can't
you do something for him?"

She reined up at a little distance. McCloud bent over the man a moment and spoke to him. When
he rose he called to the men on the track. "You are right," he said, rejoining Dicksie; "he
is very much alive. His name is Wickwire; he is a cowboy."

"A cowboy!"

"A tramp cowboy."

"What can you do with him?"

"I'll have the men put him in the caboose and send him to Barnhardt's hospital at Medicine
Bend when the engine comes back. He may live yet. If he does, he can thank you for it."

CHAPTER IV

GEORGE McCLOUD

McCloud was an exception to every tradition that goes to make up a mountain railroad man. He
was from New England, with a mild voice and a hand that roughened very slowly. McCloud was
a classmate of Morris Blood's at the Boston "Tech," and the acquaintance begun there continued
after the two left school, with a scattering fire of letters between the mountains and New
England, as few and as far between as men's letters usually scatter after an ardent school
acquaintance.

There were just two boys in the McCloud family--John and George. One had always been intended
for the church, the other for science. Somehow the boys got mixed in their cradles, or, what
is the same matter, in their assignments, and John got into the church. For George, who ought
to have been a clergyman, nothing was left but a long engineering course for which, after he
got it, he appeared to have no use. However, it seemed a little late to shift the life alignments.
John had the pulpit and appeared disposed to keep it, and George was left, like a New England
farm, to wonder what had become of himself.

It is, nevertheless, odd how matters come about. John McCloud, a prosperous young clergyman,
stopped on a California trip at Medicine Bend to see brother George's classmate and something
of a real Western town. He saw nothing sensational--it was there, but he did not see it--but
he found both hospitality and gentlemen, and, if surprised, was too well-bred to admit it.
His one-day stop ran on to several days. He was a guest at the Medicine Bend Club, where he
found men who had not forgotten the Harvard Greek plays. He rode in private cars and ate antelope
steak grilled by Glover's own darky boy, who had roasted buffalo hump for the Grand Duke Alexis
as far back as 1871, and still hashed his browned potatoes in ragtime; and with the sun breaking
clear over the frosty table-lands, a ravenous appetite, and a day's shooting in prospect, the
rhythm had a particularly cheerful sound. John was asked to occupy a Medicine Bend pulpit,
and before Sunday the fame of his laugh and his marksmanship had spread so far that Henry Markover,
the Yale cowboy, rode in thirty-two miles to hear him preach. In leaving, John McCloud, in
a seventh heaven of enthusiasm over the high country, asked Morris Blood why he could not find
something for George out there; and Blood, not even knowing the boy wanted to come, wrote for
him, and asked Bucks to give him a job. Possibly, being over-solicitous, George was nervous
when he talked to Bucks; possibly the impression left by his big, strong, bluff brother John
made against the boy; at all events, Bucks, after he talked with George, shook his head. "I
could make a first-class railroad man out of the preacher, Morris, but not out of the brother.
Yes, I've talked with him. He can't do anything but figure elevations, and, by heaven, we can't
feed our own engineers here now." So George found himself stranded in the mountains.

Morris Blood was cut up over it, but George McCloud took it quietly. "I'm no worse off here
than I was back there, Morris." Blood, at that, plucked up courage to ask George to take a
job in the Cold Springs mines, and George jumped at it. It was impossible to get a white man
to live at Cold Springs after he could save money enough to get away, so George was welcomed
as assistant superintendent at the Number Eight Mine, with no salary to speak of and all the work.

In one year everybody had forgotten him. Western men, on the average, show a higher heart temperature
than Eastern men, but they are tolerably busy people and have their own troubles. "Be patient,"
Morris Blood had said to him. "Sometime there will be more railroad work in these mountains;
then, perhaps, your darned engineering may come into play. I wish you knew how to sell cigars."

Meantime, McCloud stuck to the mine, and insensibly replaced his Eastern tissue with Western.
In New England he had been carefully moulded by several generations of gentlemen, but never
baked hard. The mountains put the crust on him. For one thing, the sun and wind, best of all
hemlocks, tanned his white skin into a tough all-American leather, seasoned his muscles into
rawhide sinews, and, without burdening him with an extra ounce of flesh, sprinkled the red
through his blood till, though thin, he looked apoplectic.

Insensibly, too, something else came about. George McCloud developed the rarest of all gifts
of temperament, even among men of action--the ability to handle men. In Cold Springs, indeed,
it was a case either of handling or of being handled. McCloud got along with his men and, with
the tough element among them, usually through persuasion; but he proved, too, that he could
inspire confidence even with a club.

One day, coming down "special" from Bear Dance, Gordon Smith, who bore the nickname Whispering
Smith, rode with President Bucks in the privacy of his car. The day had been long, and the
alkali lay light on the desert. The business in hand had been canvassed, and the troubles put
aside for chicken, coffee, and cigars, when Smith, who did not smoke, told the story of something
he had seen the day before at Cold Springs that pleased him.

The men in the Number Eight Mine had determined to get rid of some Italians, and after a good
deal of rowing had started in to catch one of them and hang him. They had chosen a time when
McCloud, the assistant superintendent of the mine, was down with mountain fever. It was he
who had put the Italians into the mine. He had already defended them from injury, and would
be likely, it was known, to do so again if he were able. On this day a mob had been chasing
the Dagos, and had at length captured one. They were running him down street to a telegraph
pole when the assistant superintendent appeared in scant attire and stopped them. Taking advantage
of the momentary confusion, he hustled their victim into the only place of refuge at hand,
a billiard hall. The mob rushed the hall. In the farthest corner the unlucky Italian, bleeding
like a bullock and insane with fright, knelt, clinging to McCloud's shaky knees. In trying
to make the back door the two had been cut off, and the sick boss had got into a corner behind
a pool-table to make his stand. In his pocket he had a pistol, knowing that to use it meant
death to him as well as to the wretch he was trying to save. Fifty men were yelling in the
room. They had rope, hatchets, a sprinkling of guns, and whiskey enough to burn the town, and
in the corner behind a pool-table stood the mining boss with mountain fever, the Dago, and
a broken billiard-cue.

Bucks took the cigar from his mouth, leaned forward in his chair, and stretched his heavy chin
out of his neck as if the situation now promised a story. The leader, Smith continued, was
the mine blacksmith, a strapping Welshman, from whom McCloud had taken the Italian in the street.
The blacksmith had a revolver, and was crazy with liquor. McCloud singled him out in the crowd,
pointed a finger at him, got the attention of the men, and lashed him across the table with
his tongue until the blacksmith opened fire on him with his revolver, McCloud all the while
shaking his finger at him and abusing him like a pickpocket. "The crowd couldn't believe its
eyes," Gordon Smith concluded, "and McCloud was pushing for the blacksmith with his cue when
Kennedy and I squirmed through to the front and relieved the tension. McCloud wasn't hit."

"What is that mining man's name?" asked Bucks, reaching for a message clip.

"McCloud."

"First name?" continued Bucks mechanically.

"George."

Bucks looked at his companion in surprise. Then he spoke, and a feeling of self-abasement was
reflected in his words. "George McCloud," he echoed. "Did you say George? Why, I must know
that man. I turned him down once for a job. He looked so peaceable I thought he was too soft
for us." The president laid down his cigar with a gesture of disgust. "And yet there really
are people along this line that think I'm clever. I haven't judgment enough to operate a trolley
car. It's a shame to take the money they give me for running this system, Gordon. Hanged if
I didn't think that fellow was too soft." He called the flagman over. "Tell Whitmyer we will
stay at Cold Springs to-night."

"I thought you were going through to Medicine Bend," suggested Smith as the trainman disappeared.

"McCloud," repeated Bucks, taking up his cigar and throwing back his head in a cloud of smoke.

"Yes," assented his companion; "but I am going through to Medicine Bend, Mr. Bucks."

"Do."

"How am I to do it?"

"Take the car and send it back to-morrow on Number Three."

"Thank you, if you won't need it to-night."

"I sha'n't. I am going to stay at Cold Springs to-night and hunt up McCloud."

"But that man is in bed in a very bad way; you can't see him. He is going to die."

"No, he isn't. I am going to hunt him up and have him taken care of."

That night Bucks, in the twilight, was sitting by McCloud's bed, smoking and looking him over.
"Don't mind me," he said when he entered the room, lifted the ill-smelling lamp from the table,
and, without taking time to blow it out, pitched it through the open window. "I heard you were
sick, and just looked in to see how they were taking care of you. Wilcox," he added, turning
to the nurse he had brought in--a barber who wanted to be a railroad man, and had agreed to
step into the breach and nurse McCloud--"have a box of miner's candles sent up from the roundhouse.
We have some down there; if not, buy a box and send me the bill."

McCloud, who after the rioting had crawled back to bed with a temperature of 105 degrees, knew
the barber, but felt sure that a lunatic had wandered in with him, and immediately bent his
feeble mental energies on plans for getting rid of a dangerous man. When Bucks sat down by
him and continued talking at the nurse, McCloud caught nothing of what was said until Bucks
turned quietly toward him. "They tell me, McCloud, you have the fever."

The sick man, staring with sunken eyes, rose half on his elbow in astonishment to look again
at his visitor, but Bucks eased him back with an admonition to guard his strength. McCloud's
temperature had already risen with the excitement of seeing a man throw his lamp out of the
window. Bucks, meantime, working carefully to seem unconcerned and incensing McCloud with great
clouds of smoke, tried to discuss his case with him as he had already done with the mine surgeon.
McCloud, thinking it best to humor a crazy man, responded quietly. "The doctor said yesterday,"
he explained, "it was mountain fever, and he wants to put me into an ice-pack."

Bucks objected vigorously to the ice-pack.

"The doctor tells me that it is the latest treatment for that class of fevers in the Prussian
army," answered McCloud feebly, but getting interested in spite of himself.

"That's a good thing, no doubt, for the Prussian army," replied Bucks, "but, McCloud, in the
first place, you are not a Dutchman; in the second, you have not got mountain fever--not in
my judgment."

McCloud, confident now that he had an insane man on his hands, held his peace.

"Not a symptom of mountain fever," continued Bucks calmly; "you have what looks to me like
gastritis, but the homeopaths," he added, "have a better name for it. Is it stomatitis, McCloud?
I forget."

The sick man, confounded by such learning, determined to try one question, and, if he was at
fault, to drag his gun from under his pillow and sell his life as dearly as possible. Summoning
his waning strength, he looked hard at Bucks. "Just let me ask you one question. I never saw
you before. Are you a doctor?"

"No, I'm a railroad man; my name is Bucks." McCloud rose half up in bed with amazement. "They'll
kill you if you lie here a week," continued Bucks. "In just a week. Now I'll tell you my plan.
I'll take you down in the morning in my car to Medicine Bend; this barber will go with us.
There in the hospital you can get everything you need, and I can make you comfortable. What
do you say?"

McCloud looked at his benefactor solemnly, but if hope flickered for an instant in his eyes
it soon died. Bucks said afterward that he looked like a cold-storage squab, just pinfeathers
and legs. "Shave him clean," said he, "and you could have counted his teeth through his cheeks."

The sick man turned his face to the wall. "It's kind enough," he muttered, "but I guess it's
too late."

Bucks did not speak for some time. Twilight had faded above the hills, and only the candle
lighted the room. Then the master of mountain men, grizzled and brown, turned his eyes again
to the bed. McCloud was staring at the ceiling.

"We have a town of your name down on the plains, McCloud," said Bucks, blowing away the cigar
smoke after the long silence. "It is one of our division points, and a good one."

"I know the town," responded McCloud. "It was named after one of our family."

"I guess not."

"It was, though," said McCloud wearily.

"I think," returned Bucks, "you must be mistaken. The man that town was named after belonged
to the fighting McClouds."

"That is my family."

"Then where is your fight? When I propose to put you into my car and pull you out of this,
why do you say it is too late? It is never too late."

McCloud made no answer, and Bucks ran on: "For a man that worked out as well as you did yesterday
in a trial heat with a billiard-cue, I should say you could turn a handspring or two yet if
you had to. For that matter, if you don't want to be moved, I can run a spur in here to your
door in three hours in the morning. By taking out the side-wall we can back the car right up
to the bed. Why not? Or we can stick a few hydraulic jacks under the sills, raise the house,
and push your bed right on the observation platform." He got McCloud to laughing, and lighted
a fresh cigar. A framed photograph hung on one of the bare walls of the room, and it caught
the eye of the railroad man. He walked close to it, disinfected it with smoke, brushed the
dust from the glass, and examined the print. "That looks like old Van Dyne College campus,
hanged if it doesn't!"

McCloud was watching him. "It is a photograph of the campus."

"McCloud, are you a Van Dyne man?"

"I did my college work there before I went to Boston."

