NO. 11.] SATURDAY, JANUARY 12.

About ten years since, I remember seeing, in the hands of a London bookseller, a curious MS.
purporting to be the "Household Book of Receipts and Expences of Sir Edward Dering, Bart.,
of Surrenden Dering, Kent, from Lady-Day, 1648, to April, 1652." It was a think folio, in the
original binding, entirely in the hand-writing of the distinguished baronet.

Sir Edward was the only son of Sir Edward Dering, the first baronet, by his second wife, Anne,
daughter of Sir John Ashburnham, of Ashburnham, Sussex, Knt. He succeeded to the baronetcy
upon the death of his father, in 1644, and married Mary, daughter of Daniel Harvey, Esq., of
Combe, Surrey, who was brother of the famous Dr. Harvey, the discoverer of the circulations
of the blood.

The volume commences at Lady-day, 1648, with the gifts of his grandmother Cramond, and his
uncles Dr. Harvey and Eliab Harvey. Nov. 8. 1648, is a memorandum of receipts of "the full
remainder of the three thousand pounds he was to pay me on my marriage." The receipts close
March 25. 1652, with "a note of what money I have received for rent, wood, &c.; in effect,
what I have to live upon, for four years, 1413l. 8s." The expenses begin at the same period;
and among the earliest is, "given my wife, in gold, 100l." Under the date Aug. 4. 1648, we
read, "Item: paid Mr. Edward Gibbes, to the use, and by the appointment of my sister Dorothy,
it being her portion, 1200l." Dorothy was probably Sir Edward's only sister, by the same mother,
Sir Edward, the first baronet's second wife. Her sun of life soon set; for Feb. 21. 1650, a
whole page is occupied with items of mourning "at the death of my deare and only sister, the
Lady Darell."

Independently of the frequent notices of relatives, almost serving as a family history, there
are entries of high interest to the general historian and the antiquary. The costs of every
article of use and virtue are set down in full, and a few of the items (which I find in my
Common-place Book) will serve as a specimen of the general contents:--

"1648. July 31.  It. for seeing two plaies with my
                  wife, &c., coach hire, &c.,      1l.  6s.
--    Sept. 2.  It. paid the upholsterer for a
                  counterpayne to the yellow
                  petuana bed                      3l. 10s.
--    Sept. 7.  Paid Mr. Winne, for a tippet of
                  sables for my wife              14l.
--    Nov. 23.  For a copy of Marg. Dering's
                  office                           9s.
--    Dec. 23.  It. paid Mr. Le Neve, in part for
                  my wife's picture                3l.
--    Mar. 8.   It. a velvet saddle furniture for
                  my wife, 13l. It. black sattin,
                  for a gown for her, 7l. It. two
                  diamond rings                   13l.

"1649. April 16. It. given seeing Rechampton-House       6s.
--    April 28. It. paid Mr. Le Neve, the remainder
                  due for my wife's picture,
                   3l. 4s. It. paid him for a
                   picture of the king. 2l. It. paid
                   him for a new frame to my
                   grandmother's           --      6s.
"1649. May 9.      Item, given at John Tradeskin's
                   [Tradescant]            --      2s. 6d.
  ---  June 1.     Paid Mr. Lawes, a month's
                   teaching of my wife     --      1l. 10s.
  ---  Sept 1.     It. spent at Tunbridge Welles, in
                   19 dayes stay           --      26l, 8s.
"1650. April 8.    It. paid Mr. Lilly [Sir Peter] for
                   my wife's picture       --      5l.
"1651. April 21.   It. paid Mr. Lelie for my picture,
                   5l. It. paid him for my wife's
                   picture, being larger, 10l. It.
                   given Mr. Lelie's man, 5s.
  ---  April 23.   It. paid Frank Rower for a frame
                   for my wife's picture 4l.
  ---  Aug. 7.     Spent in Spring Gardens, and
                   coach hire thither      --      17s.
  ---  Sept. 3.    Baubles at Bartholomew fayre,   4s.
  ---  Oct. 3.     It. given the Scots prisoners,  8s.
  ---  Nov. 13.    It. paid for bringing a great cake
                   from Richborow          --      3s.
  ---  March 9.    Twelve paire of gloves given my
                   Valentine, the Lady Palmer
                                                   1l. 12s.
  ---  March 22.   It. paid Mr. Lilly for Mrs.
                   Montague's picture, the larger size
                                                   10l.

The entry concerning the Celebrated Henry Lawes, Milton's Tuneful Harry, is very interesting,
and is well illustrated by the following dedication, prefixed to Lawes' Second Book of Ayres
and Dialogues, 1655:--

     "To the Honourable the Lady Dering, Wife to Sir Edward Dering, of
     Surenden Dering, Bart.

     "Madam,--I have consider'd, but could not finde it lay in my power,
     to offer this Book to any but your Ladiship. Not only in regard of
     that honour and esteem you have for Musick, but because those Songs
     which fill this Book have receiv'd much lustre by your excellent
     performance of them; and (which I confesse I rejoice to sepak of)
     some, which I esteem the best of these ayres, were of your own
     composition, after your noble husband was pleas'd to give the
     words. For (although your Ladiship resolv'd to keep it private) I
     beg leave to declare, for my own honour, that you are not only
     excellent for the time you spent in the practice of what I set, but
     are yourself so good a composer, that few of any sex have arriv'd
     to such perfection. So as this Book (at least a part of it) is not
     Dedicated, but only brought home to your Ladiship. And here I would
     say (could I do it without sadness), how pretious to my thoughts is
     the memory of your excellent Mother (that great example of prudence
     and charity), whose pious meditations were often advanc'd by
     hearing your voice. I wish all prosperity to your Ladiship, and to
     him who (like yourself) is made up of Harmony; to say nothing of
     the rest of his high accomplishments of wisdome and learning. May
     you both live long, happy in each other, when I am become ashes;
     who, while I am in this world, shall be ever found, Madame,

     "Your Ladiship's humble Admirer
         "and faitnful Servant,
            "HENRY LAWES."

The Derings appear to have been great lovers and patrons of music; and one of their family,
Richard, practised the art as his profession. This excellent musician was educated in Italy;
and, when his education was completed, he returned to England with great reputation. He resided
in his own country for some time, but, upon a very pressing invitation, went to Brussels, and
became organist to the convent of English nuns there. From the marriage of Charles I., until
the time when that monarch left England, he was organist to the Queen. In 1610 he was admitted
to the degree of Bachelor in Music at Oxford, and died in the communion of the Church of Rome,
about the year 1657.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

        *      *      *      *      *

BAYSWATER AND ITS ORIGIN.

A piece of topographical history was disclosed at the recent trial of a cause at Westminster,
which it may be worth while to record among your "Notes." The Dean and Chapter of Westminster
are possessed of the manor of Westbourne Green, in the parish of Paddington, parcel of the
possessions of the extinct Abbey of Westminster. It must have belonged to the Abbey when Domesday
was compiled; for, though neither Westbourne nor Knightsbridge (also a manor of the same house)
is specially named in that survey, yet we know, from a later record, viz. a Quo Warranto in
22 Edward I., that both of those manors were members, or constituent hamlets, of the vill of
Westminster, which is mentioned in Domesday among the lands of the Abbey. The most considerable
tenant under the abbot in this vill was Bainiardus, probably the same Norman associate of the
Conqueror who is called Baignardus and Bainardus in other parts of the survey, and who gave
his name to Baynard's Castle.

The descent of the land held by him of the abbot cannot be clearly traced: but his name long
remained attached to part of it; and, as late as the year 1653, a parliamentary grant of the
Abbey or Chapter lands to Foxcrafte and another, describes "the common field at Paddington"
as being "near a place commonly called Baynard's Watering."

In 1720, the lands of the Dean and Chapter in the same common field are described, in a terrier
of the Chapter, to be the occupation of Alexander Bond, of Bear's Watering, in the same parish
of Paddington.

The common field referred to, is the well-known piece of garden ground lying between Craven
Hill and the Uxbridge road, called also Bayswater Field.

We may therefore fairly conclude, that this portion of ground, always remarkable for its springs
of excellent water, once supplied water to Baynard, his household, or his cattle; that the
memory of his name was preserved in the neighbourhood for six centuries; and that his watering-place
now figures on the outside of certain green omnibuses in the streets of London, under the name
of BAYSWATER.

E.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

EVA, DAUGHTER OF DERMOT MACMURROUGH.

Being a subscriber to Mr. O'Donovan's new translation of The Annals of the Four Masters, I
beg to inform your correspondent, "A HAPLESS HUNTER" (No. 6, p. 92.), that the copy which I
possess begins with the year 1172; consequently, it is hopeless to refer to the years 1135
and 1169. In 1173 the death of Mulmurry Mac-Murrough is recorded; as also of Dermot O'Kaelly,
from whom the family name of Kelly is derived; but I do not find any notice of the daughter
of Dermot MacMurrough.

J.I.

Oxford.

If some earlier note-taker has not anticipated me, please to inform your correspondent from
Malvern Wells that the published portion of the Annals of the Four Masters, by O'Donovan, commences
with the year 1172. The earlier portion of the Annals is in the press, and will shortly appear.
When it sees the light, your querist will, it is to be hoped, find an answer. A query, addressed
personally, to Mr. O'Donavan, Queen's College, Galway, would, no doubt, meet with a ready reply
from that learned and obliging Irish scholar and historian.

J.G.

Kilkenny.

"A HAPLESS HUNTER" will find, in the Statute of Kilkenny (edited by James Hardiman, Esq., M.R.I.A.
for the Irish Archaeological Society in 1843), pp. 28, 29, note, two incidental notices of
Eva, daughter of Dermot McMorrough; the first, her witnessing a grant made by Richard Strongbow,
Earl of Pembroke, during his lifetime; and the second, a grant made by her to John Comyn, Archbishop
of Dublin, in the reign of Richard I. (at least sixteen years after her husband's death), "pro
salute anime mee et domini comitis Ricardi," &c. Should he not have an opportunity of consulting
the work, I shall have much pleasure in furnishing the entire extract, on receiving a line
from him.

JOHN POWERS.

10. Dorchester Place, Blandford Square.

Giraldus Cambrensis mentions, that MacMurrough, having, in the year 1167, procured letters
patent from Henry II., repaired to England, and there induced Strongbow, Earl of Pembroke and
Strighul, to engage to aid him, on condition of receiving, in return, the hand of his eldest
daughter, Eva, and the heirship of his dominions.--Girald. Camb. p. 761. And further, that
Strongbow did not arrive in Ireland until the eve of St. Bartholomew's day, September, 1170;
he was joined at Waterford by Eva and her father, and the marriage took place a few days after,
and during the sacking of that place.--Ibid. p. 773.

"Strongbow left, by his second wife Eva, one daughter, named Isabella, an infant. * * * Richard
the First gave Isabella in marriage to William de la Grace, who thus became Earl of Pembroke,
and was created First Earl Marshal of England," &c.--Fenton's Hist. Pembrokeshire.

SELEUCUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

PLAGIARISMS, OR PARALLEL PASSAGES

I have placed this title in my note-books, more than one instance of similarity of thought,
incident, or expression that I have met with during a somewhat desultory course of reading.
These instances I shall take the liberty of laying before you from time to time, leaving you
and your readers to decide whether such similarity be the effect of accident or design; but
I flatter myself that they may be accepted as parallel passages and illustrations, even by
those who may differ from me in the opinion I have formed on the relation which my "loci inter
se comparandi" bear to each other.

In Lady Blessington's Conversations with Lord Byron, pages 176, 177., the poet is represented
as stating that the lines--

  "While Memory, with more than Egypt's art,
  Embalming all the sorrows of the heart,
  Sits at the altar which she raised to woe,
  And feeds the source whence tears eternal flow!"

suggested to his mind, "by an unaccountable and incomprehensible power of association," the
thought--

     "Memory, the mirror which affliction dashes to the earth, and,
     looking down upon the fragments, only beholds the reflection
     multiplied."

afterwards apparently embodied in Childe Harold, iii. 33.

  "Even as a broken mirror, which the glass
  In every fragment multiplies; and makes
  A thousand images of one that was,
  The same, and still the more, the more it breaks."

Now, Byron was, by his own showing, an ardent admirer of Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy. See
Moore's Life of Byron, vol. i. page 144. Notices of the year 1807. 3. mem. 7.

I am uncharitable enough to believe that Childe Harold owes far more to Burton, than to "the
unaccountable and incomprehensible power of association."

MELANION.

        *      *      *      *      *

BILLINGSGATE.

I think your correspondent in No. 6. p. 93., starts on wrong premises; he seems to take for
granted that such a structure as Belin's Gate really existed. Now the story entirely rests
on the assertion of Geoffrey of Monmouth. What amount of credit may be placed on that veracious
and most unromantic historian, your correspondent doubtless knows better than myself. Geoffrey
says, in the 10th chap. of the 3rd book, that Belin, among other great works, made a wonderful
gate on the bank of the Thames, and built over it a large tower, and under it a wharf for ships;
and when he died his body was burned, and his ashes put into a golden urn on the top of the
tower. Stow seems to doubt it. In Strype's edition, 1720, he says, concerning this gate, "Leaving
out the fable thereof faming it to be builded by King Belin, a Briton, long before the incarnation
of Christ." Burton, writing 1722, mentions the legend, but adds, "But whether of that antiquity
is doubted." and John Brydall, in 1676, mentions it only as a wharf or quay for ships. Now,
as Geoffrey of Monmouth's Chronicle is generally allowed by critics to be but a mass of romance
and monkish legends, built on a slight foundation of truth, we may suppose this account to
partake of the general character of the rest of the work. That some circumstance gave rise
to the name is not doubted. "Haply," says Stow, "some person of that name lived near." I look
on the name as only a corruption or romantic alteration of the word Baal or Bel; and, as we
have every reason to suppose he was worshipped by part of the aborigines of this country, I
deem it not improbable that on or near this spot might once have existed a temple for his worship,
which afterwards gave a name to the place. It is true Baal generally had his temples placed
on the summit of lofty mountains or other eminences. But supposing a number of his votaries
to have settled near London, and on the banks of the Thames, nothing would be more likely than,
to obviate the natural lowness of the ground, they would raise a tower for the better celebration
of the ceremonies attendant on his worship. This might have been the foundation upon which
Geoffrey built his story. However, I only suggest this. The real origin of the name I am afraid
is too far sunk in oblivion to hold out any hopes of its being rescued at the present day.

VOX.

        *      *      *      *      *

If "WILLIAM WILLIAMS" will examine the map of London in 1543, lately engraved from a drawing
in the Bodleian Library, he will perceive the "Water Gate,", about which he inquires, defended
on the west side by a lofty hexagonal machicolated tower.

C.S.

        *      *      *      *      *

NOTES FROM FLY-LEAVES, NO. 4.

In order to forward your views as regards the valuable department of "Notes from Fly-Leaves"
I have spent some leisure hours in beating the covers of a portion of my library. I send you
the produce of my first day's sport, which, you will observe, has been in the fields of poetry.
Make what use of it you think fit, selecting such notes only as you think of sufficient interest
for publication.

I. Note in the handwriting of Richard Farmer, in a copy of "Canidia, or the Witches; a Rhapsody
in five parts, by R.D." 4to. London, printed by S. Roycroft for Robert Clavell, 1683.

     "In Mr. Hutton's Catale P. 65. N. 1552. this strange composition is
     ascribed to one Dixon. There was a Robert Dixon, an author about
     the time, and D.D. (Woods's Fasti, v. ii. p. 103.), but it surely
     must not be given to him! Qu.? This is the only copy I have seen,
     1785."

     [Lowndes has the work under the name of Robert Dixon, D.D.]

II. Note in the handwriting of James Bindley, in a copy of an English translation of Milton's
"Defensio pro Populo Anglicano," printed in the year 1692.

     "Translated into English by Richard Washington, Esq., of the Middle
     Temple."

On another page, however, he has written,

     "Mem. in a miscellany called 'Poems on Affairs of State,' 8vo. 5th
     edit. 1703, at page 223 'In memory of Joseph Washington, Esq.,
     late of the Middle Temple, an elegy written by N. Tate, Servant to
     their Majesties.' Though Mr. Warton calls him Richard, his name
     was, I believe, as above, and the translator most likely of this
     book.--J.B."

To this is added, in the handwriting of the late Mr. Ford, bookseller, formerly of Manchester--

     "The note on the opposite side, signed J.B., stands for James
     Bindley, who may be considered as good authority for what is here
     asserted. Some curious information will be found relative to the
     original work in 'Diction. des Livres Condamnés,' &c., par Peignot.
     tom. ii. p 319."

III. Note in the handwriting of Mr. Ford, in a copy of Fletcher's "Purple Island,", &c. 1633.

     "See the lines at the end by Francis Quarles, which are ingenious
     and poetical. This curious and very rare volume I purchased out of
     Longman's celebrated catalogue of old English poetry, called 'Bib.
     Ang. Poet.,' where it will be found marked £2 12s. 6d., which is
     what it cost me. Mr. Montgomery, the poet, styles this poem a
     fantastical allegory describing the body and soul of man, but
     containing many rich and picturesque passages (v. his 'Christian
     Poem,' p. 163.) But there is a most excellent critique upon it in
     the 'Retrosp. Rev.' for Nov. 1820 (v.p. 351.), but see also
     Headley, who highly praises it. The name of Fletcher ranks high in
     the list of our poets. He was born in 1584, and was the son of Dr.
     Giles Fletcher, who was himself a poet; the brother of Giles
     Fletcher, the author of 'Christ's Victory;' and the cousin of John
     Fletcher, the celebrated dramatist."

IV. In a note on a copy of "Iter Boreale, with large additions of several other poems, being
an exact collection of all hitherto extant; never before published together. The author R.
Wild, D.D., printed for the booksellers in London, 1668,"--the author is described as "of Tatenill,
near Burton supr Trent." The note is apparently of contemporary date, or a little later.

This edition is not noticed by Lowndes, nor is another edition (anonymous), of which I have
a copy, the date of which is 1605 (printed for R.J., and are to be sold in St. Paul's Churchyard).
Of course this date is a mistake, but query what is the real date? Probably 1665. The volume
concludes with the 70th page, being identical with the 72nd page of the edition of 1668.

V. Note in the handwriting of Mr. Ford, in a copy of "Waller's Poems," 1645 (after quoting
"Rymer on Tragedy," pp. 2. and 79.):--

     "The dedicatory epistle in this first and rare edition 'To my
     Lady,' is omitted in all the subsequent editions, even in Fenton's
     of 1729 (see Dibdin).--I find it is inserted in Fenton's
     edition among the speeches and letters; but he adds, in his
     observations thereon, that it appears not to have been designed for
     a public dedication, though why or wherefore he assigns no reason;
     and he further adds, 'I never met with any tradition to what Lady
     it was originally directed.' It certainly has as much the
     appearance of having been intended for a dedication, if we may
     judge from internal evidence, as such sort of things generally
     have. This is the first genuine edition and very scarce. It is
     priced in the 'Bib. Ang. Poet.'; at 2 gs. No. 851. The subsequent
     editions are of no particular value, exception Fenton's elegant and
     complete edition in 4to., which is worth about the same sum."

VI. Note in a handwriting of the 17th century, in a copy of Cawood's edition of the "Ship of
Fools," opposite to the dedication, which is "Venerandissimo in Christo Patri ac Domino, domino
Thomæ Cornissh, Tenenensis pontifici, ac diocesis Badonensis Suffraganio vigilantissimo," &c.

     "Thomas Cornish, in 1421-2, was made Suffragan Bishop to Rich. Fox,
     Bp of Bath and Wells, under ye title of 'Episcopus Tynensis,' by wh
     I suppose is meant Tyne, ye last island belonging to ye republick
     of Venice in ye Archipelago. See more of him in 'Athenæ Oxoniens,'
     vol. i. p. 555."

VII. Note by T. Park, in a copy of the third edition of an "Essay on Human Life," by the author
of the "Essay on Man," 1736. (Printed for J. Witford.)

     "By Lord Pagett. 1st edn 1734. 4to. says Lord Orford. An edn in
     8vo. was printed in 1736 'for Fletcher Gyles against Grays Inn in
     Holbourn,' and was called (as this is) the third; but it gave no
     delusive intimation in the title that Pope was the author, honestly
     assigning it to the Right Hon. Lord Pagett. To the preface was
     added a short postscript."

On another page he has written:

     "This is perhaps the most successful imitation of Pope's ethic poem
     which has been produced. Lord Paget has had the credit of composing
     it."

In another handwriting there is written:

     "From Mr. Newton, a valuable present, June 25. 1760."

Under which Mr. Park has added:

     "Qu. from Newton to Cowper, whose handwriting resembles the above."

VIII. I have a little book entitled, "The Original History of Old Robin
Gray; with the adventures of Jenny and Sandy: a Scotch Tale;" n.d.
printed for H. Turpin. This is the first authentic
     edition of this beautiful Scottish ballad, and forms one of the
     publications by Sir Walter Scott as a member of the Bannatyne Club.
     The publication gives an interesting account of the authoress--of
     the origin of the ballad--the ballad--continuation of Auld Robin
     Gray, all from the same hand; it is to be regretted it is not
     published for wider circulation. It will, it may be expected, find
     a vent for the publick at some future period, and some of the
     gatherings in this volume swell a note or two, if not a page.--See
     'Cens. Lib.' vol. ix. p. 323. for another ballad called,
     'Continuation of Auld Robin Gray.' Auld Robin gray's Ghaist begins
     'Right sweetly sang the nightingale,' among my Scotch songs. The
     sequel to Auld Robin Gray begins, 'Full five long years' in do."

J.F.M.

       *       *       *       *       *

OPINIONS ON ENGLISH HISTORIANS.

II. Lord Clarendon.

     "This great historian is always too free with his judgments. But the
     piety is more eminent than the superstition in this great man's
     foibles."--Bishop Warburton, note, last edition, vol. vii. p. 590.

     "Clarendon was unquestionably a lover of truth, and a sincere
     friend to the free constitution of his country. He defended that
     constitution in Parliament, with zeal and energy, against the
     encroachments of prerogative, and concurred in the establishment of
     new securities for its protection."--Lord Grenville, Note in
     Chatham Correspondence, vol. i. p. 113.

     "There is no historian, ancient or modern, with whose writings it
     so much behoves an Englishman to be thoroughly conversant, as
     Lord Clarendon."--Southey, Life of Cromwell.

     "The genuine text of the history has only been published in 1826,"
     says Mr. Hallam, who speaks of "inaccuracy as habitual to him;" and
     further, "as no one, who regards with attachment the present system
     of the English constitution, can look upon Lord Clarendon as an
     excellent minister, or a friend to the soundest principles of civil
     and religious liberty, so no man whatever can avoid considering his
     incessant deviations from the great duties of an historian as a
     moral blemish on his character. He dares very frequently to say
     what is not true, and what he must have known to be otherwise; he
     does not dare to say what is true, and it is almost an aggravation
     of this reproach, that he aimed to deceive posterity, and poisoned
     at the fountain a stream from which another generation was to
     drink. No defence has ever been set up for the fidelity of
     Clarendon's history; nor can men, who have sifted the authentic
     material, entertain much difference of judgment in this respect;
     though, as a monument of powerful ability and impressive eloquence,
     it will always be read with that delight which we receive from many
     great historians, especially the ancient, independent of any
     confidence in their veracity."--Hallam, Constitutional History,
     8vo. vol. ii. p.502. Few English writers have the same precision, either in
     describing the actors in great scenes, or the deeds which they
     performed; he was himself deeply engaged in the scenes which he
     depicts, and therefore colours them with the individual feeling,
     and sometimes, doubtless, with the partiality of a partisan. Yet, I
     think he is, on the whole, a fair writer; for though he always
     endeavours to excuse King Charles, yet he points out his mistakes
     and errors, which certainly were neither few nor of slight
     importance."--Scott, Life by Lockhart, vol. v. p. 146.

Other opinions as to the noble writer will be found in the Life of Calamy, and in Lord Dover's
Essay; but I have perhaps trespassed too much on your space.

M.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANIES.

Books by the Yard.--Many of your readers have heard of books bought and sold by weight,--in
fact it is questionable whether the number of books sold in that way is not greater than those
sold "over the counter,"--but few have probably heard of books sold "by the yard." Having purchased
at St. Petersburg, the library left by an old Russian nobleman of high rank, I was quite astonished
to find a copy of Oeuvres de Frederic II. originally published in 15 vols., divided into 60,
to each of which a new title had been printed; and several hundred volumes lettered outside
Oeuvres de Miss Burney, Oeuvres de Swift, &c., but containing, in fact, all sorts of French
waste paper books. These, as well as three editions of Oeuvres de Voltaire, were all very neatly
bound in calf, gilt and with red morrocco backs. My curiosity being roused, I inquired into
the origin of these circumstances, and learnt that during the reign of Catherine, every courtier
who had hopes of being honoured by a visit from the Empress, was expected to have a library,
the greater or smaller extent of which was to be regulated by the fortune of its possessor,
and that, after Voltaire had won the favour of the Autocrat by his servile flattery, one or
two copies of his works were considered indispensable. Every courtier was thus forced to have
rooms filled with books, by far the greater number of which he never read or even opened. A
bookseller of the name of Klostermann, who, being of an athletic stature, was one of the innumerable
favourites of the lady, "who loved all things save her lord," was usually employed, not to
select a library, but to fill a certain given space of so many yards with books, at so much
per volume, and Mr. Klostermann, the "Libraire de la Cour Imperiale," died worth a plum, having
sold many thousand yards of books (among which I understood there were several hundred copies
of Voltaire), at from 50 to 100 roubles a yard, "according to the binding."

A. ASHER. Berlin. Dec. 1849.

Thistle of Scotland.--R.L. will find the thistle first introduced on coins during the reign
of James V., although the motto "Nemo me impune lacessit" was not adopted until two reigns
later.--See Lindsay's Coinage of Scotland, Longman, 1845.

B.N.

Miry-Land Town. In the Athenaeum, in an article on the tradition respecting Sir Hugh of Lincoln,
the Bishop of Dromore's version of the affair is thus given:--

  "The rain rins doun through Mirry-land toune,
    Sae dois it doune the Pa';
  Sae dois the lads of Mirry-land toune.
    Quhan they play at the Ba'."

In explanation of part of this stanza, Dr. Percy is stated to have considered "Mirry-land toune"
to be "probably a corruption of Milan (called by the Dutch Meylandt) town," and that the Pa'
was "evidently the River Po, though the Adige, not the Po, runs through Milan;" and it is observed
that it could not have occasioned Dr. Jamieson much trouble to conjecture as he did that "Mirry-land
toune" was a corruption of "Merry Lincolne," and that, in fact, in 1783, Pinkerton commenced
his version of the ballad thus--

  "The bonnie boys o' merry Lincoln;"

and it is added, very truly, that with all his haste and petulance, Pinkerton's critical acumen
was far from inconsiderable. Now, there appears to me to have been a very simple solution of
the above words, so simple that perhaps it was beneath the critical acumen of the said commentators.
My note on the subject is, that Mirry-land toune means nothing more than Miry-, Muddy-land
Town, a designation that its situation certainly entitles it to; and Pa' is certainly not the
Po, but an abbreviated form of Pall, i.e. a place to play Ba' or ball in, of which we have
a well-known instance in Pall Mall.

Since writing the above, I recollect that Romsey, in Hampshire, has been designated "Romsey-in-the-Mud."

J.R.F.

Richard Greene of Lichfield.--H.T.E. is informed that there is a medal or token (not difficult
to obtain) of this zealous antiquary. Obv. his bust, in the costume of the period; legend,
"Richard Greene, collector of the Lichfield Museum, died June 4, 1793, aged 77." Rev. a Gothic
window, apparently; legend, "West Porch of Lichfield Cathedral, 1800."

B.N.

The Lobster in the Medal of the Pretender.--The "Notes" by your correspondents, Mr. Edward
Hawkins and Mr. J.B. Yates, relative to this medal, are very curious and interesting, and render
it probable that the device of the Lobster has a religious rather than a political allusion.
But it strikes us that the double introduction of this remarkable emblem has a more important
signification than the mere insidious and creeping characteristics of Jesuitism. The lines
beneath the curious print in Brandt's Stultifera Nuvis throw no light on the meaning of the
Lobster. We think the difficulty yet remains unsolved.

B.N.

Marescautia.--Your correspondent "D.S." who asks (in No. 6.) for information upon the word
"Marescautia," may consult Du Cange with advantage, s. v. "Marescallus;" the "u," which perhaps
was your correspondent's difficulty, being often written for "l," upon phonotypic principles.
It was anciently the practice to apportion the revenues of royal and great monastic establishments
to some specific branch of the expenditure; and as the profits of certain manors, &c., are
often described as belonging to the "Infirmaria," the "Camera Abbatis," &c., so, in the instance
referred to by "D.S." the lands at Cumpton and Little Ongar were apportioned to the support
of the royal stable and farriery.

R.

Travelling in England.--I forward you a note on this subject, extracted, some years ago, from
a very quaintly-written History of England, without title-page, but apparently written in the
early part of the reign of George the First. It is among the remarkable events of the reign
of James the First:--

     "A.D. 1621, July the 17th, Bernart Calvert of Andover, rode from
     St. George's Church in Southwark to Dover, from thence passed by
     Barge to Callais in France, and from thence returned back to Saint
     George's Church the same day. This his journey he performed betwixt
     the hours of three in the morning and eight in the afternoon."

This appears to me such a surprising feat, that I think some of your correspondents may be
interested in it; and also may be able to append farther information.

DAVID STEVENS.

Warning to Watchmen.--The following Warning, addressed to the Watchmen of London on the occasion
of a great fire, which destroyed nearly 100 houses in the neighbourhood of Exchange Alley,
Birchin Lane, the back of George Yard, &c., among which were Garraway's, The Jerusalem Coffee
House, George and Vulture, Tom's, &c. &c., is extracted from the London Magazine for 1748,
and is very characteristic of the then state of the police of the metropolis:--

     "Mr. Touchit's Warning to the Watchmen of London. From the
     Westminster Journal, April 2nd, No. 331. (1748).

     "Whereas it has been represented to me, Thomas Touchit, Watchman
     Extraordinary of the City of Westminster, that the Watchmen of
     London were very remiss during the dreadful Fire on Friday
     morning, March 25, in not giving timely Notice of that Calamity
     over their several Beats, whereby the Friends of many of the
     unhappy Sufferers, who would have flown to their Assistance, were
     ignorant of their Distress till it was too late to do them Service;
     and also that most of the said Watchmen, on other Occasions, are
     very negligent, whence it happens that many Robberies, Burglaries,
     and other Offences, which their Care might prevent, are committed;
     and that even some of them are in Fee with common Harlots and
     Streetwalkers, whom they suffer at unseasonable Hours, unmolested
     to prey on the Virtue, Health and Property of His Majesty's Liege
     Subjects: Be it known to the said Watchmen, and their Masters,
     that, having taken the Premises into Consideration, I intend
     whenever I set out from Spring Gardens with my invisible Cap,
     my irradiating Lanthorn, and my Oken Staff of correction, to
     take the City of London, under Leave of the Right Hon. the Lord
     Mayor, into my Rounds, and to detect, expose, and punish all
     Defaulters in the several Stands and Beats: Whereof this fair
     Warning is given, that none may be surprized in Neglect of Duty, I
     being determined to shew no Favour to such Offenders."

Euston Square, 12th Dec. 1849.

Aelfric's Colloquy.--Permit me to correct a singular error into which the great Anglo-Saxon
scholars, Messrs. Lye and B. Thorpe, have been betrayed by some careless transcriber of the
curious Monastic Colloquy by the celebrated Aelfric. This production of the middle ages is
very distinctly written, both in the Saxon and Latin portions, in the Cotton MS. (Tiberius,
A 3, fol. 58b.) Mr. Lye frequently cites it, in his Saxon Dictionary, as "Coll. Mon.," and
Mr. Thorpe gives it entire in his Analecta Anglo-Saxonica. The former loosely explains higdifatu,
which occurs in the reply of the shoewright (sceowyrhta), thus--"Calidilia, sc. vasa quoedam.--Coll.
Mon."--and Mr. Thorpe prints both higdifatu and calidilia. Higdifatu is manifestly vessels
of hides, such as skin and leather bottles and buckets. The ig is either a clerical error of
the monkish scribe for y, or the g is a silent letter producing the quantity of the vowel.
"I buy hides and fells," says the workman, "and with my craft I make of them shoes of different
kinds; leathern hose, flasks, and higdifatu." The Latin word in this MS. is casidilia, written
with the long straight s. Du Cange explains capsilis to be a vessel of leather, and quotes
Matt. Westmon.: "Portans cassidile toxicum mellitum."--Gloss. tom. ii. col. 387. The root caps,
or cas, does not appear to have any Teutonic correspondent, and may merit a philological investigation.

R.T. Hampson.

Humble Pie.--the proverbial expression of "eating humble pie," explained by A.G., will be found
also explained in the same manner in the Appendix to Forby's Vocabulary, where it is suggested
that the correct orthography would be "umble pie," without the aspirate. Bailey, in his valuable
old Dictionary, traces the word properly to umbilicus, the region of the intestines, and acknowledges
in his time the perquisite of the game-keeper.

J.I.

Oxford.

By Hook or by Crook.--You have noted the origin of Humble Pie. May I add a note of a saying,
in my opinion also derived from forest customs, viz. "By hook or by crook?" Persons entitled
to fuel wood in the king's forest, were only authorised to take it of the dead wood or branches
of trees in the forest, "with a cart, a hook, and a crook."

The answer to the query respecting the meaning of "per serjantiam Marescautiae," is the Serjeantry
of Farriery, i.e. shoeing of the king's horses. In Maddox, vol. i. p. 43. you will find a very
full account of the office of Marescallus.

J.R.F.

THE ORIGIN OF GROG.

"Written on board the Berwick, a few days before Admiral Parker's engagement with the Dutch
fleet, on the 5th of August, 1781. By DR. TROTTER.

"'Tis sung on proud Olympus' hill
    The Muses bear record,
  Ere half the gods had drank their fill
    The sacred nectar sour'd.

  "At Neptune's toast the bumper stood,
    Britannia crown'd the cup;
  A thousand Nereids from the flood
    Attend to serve it up.

  "'This nauseous juice,' the monarch cries,
    'Thou darling child of fame,
  Tho' it each earthly clime denies,
    Shall never bathe thy name.

