THE HARVARD CLASSICS

EDITED BY CHARLES W. ELIOT, LLD

CHRONICLE AND ROMANCE

FROISSART--MALORY--HOLINSHED

WITH INTRODUCTIONS, NOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS

"DR ELIOT'S FIVE FOOT SHELF OF BOOKS"

1910

BY P.F. COLLIER & SON NEW YORK

CONTENTS

THE CHRONICLES OF FROISSART, TRANSLATED BY LORD BERNERS
  EDITED BY G.C. MACAULAY

The Campaign of Crecy The Battle of Poitiers Wat Tyler's Rebellion The Battle of Otterburn

THE HOLY GRAIL BY SIR THOMAS MALORY
  FROM THE CAXTON EDITION OF THE MORTE D'ARTHUR

A DESCRIPTION OF ELIZABETHAN ENGLAND WRITTEN BY WILLIAM HARRISON FOR HOLINSHED'S CHRONICLES

CHAPTER

    I. Of Degrees of People
   II. Of Cities and Towns
  III. Of Gardens and Orchards
   IV. Of Fairs and Markets
    V. Of the Church of England
   VI. Of Food and Diet
  VII. Of Apparel and Attire
 VIII. Of Building and Furniture
   IX. Of Provision for the Poor
    X. Of Air, Soil, and Commodities
   XI. Of Minerals and Metals
  XII. Of Cattle Kept for Profit
 XIII. Of Wild and Tame Fowls
  XIV. Of Savage Beasts and Vermin
   XV. Of Our English Dogs
  XVI. Of the Navy of England
 XVII. Of Kinds of Punishment
XVIII. Of Universities

THE CHRONICLES OF FROISSART

BY

JEAN FROISSART

HISTORICAL NARRATIVE OF MANY OF THE BATTLES OF THE HUNDRED YEAR'S WAR BETWEEN ENGLAND AND FRANCE.

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

Jean Froissart, the most representative of the chroniclers of the later Middle Ages, was born
at Valenciennes in 1337. The Chronicle which, more than his poetry, has kept his fame alive,
was undertaken when he was only twenty; the first book was written in its earliest form by
1369; and he kept revising and enlarging the work to the end of his life. In 1361 he went to
England, entered the Church, and attached himself to Queen Philippa of Hainault, the wife of
Edward III, who made him her secretary and clerk of her chapel. Much of his life was spent
in travel. He went to France with the Black Prince, and to Italy with the Duke of Clarence.
He saw fighting on the Scottish border, visited Holland, Savoy, and Provence, returning at
intervals to Paris and London. He was Vicar of Estinnes-au-Mont, Canon of Chimay, and chaplain
to the Comte de Blois; but the Church to him was rather a source of revenue than a religious
calling. He finally settled down in his native town, where he died about 1410.

Froissart's wandering life points to one of the most prominent of his characteristics as a
historian. Uncritical and often inconsistent as he is, his mistakes are not due to partisanship,
for he is extraordinarily cosmopolitan. The Germans he dislikes as unchivalrous; but though
his life lay in the period of the Hundred Years' War between England and France, and though
he describes many of the events of that war, he is as friendly to England as to France.

By birth Froissart belonged to the bourgeoisie, but his tastes and associations made him an
aristocrat. Glimpses of the sufferings which the lower classes underwent in the wars of his
time appear in his pages, but they are given incidentally and without sympathy. His interests
are all in the somewhat degenerate chivalry of his age, in the splendor of courts, the pomp
and circumstance of war, in tourneys, and in pageantry. Full of the love of adventure, he would
travel across half of Europe to see a gallant feat of arms, a coronation, a royal marriage.
Strength and courage and loyalty were the virtues he loved; cowardice and petty greed he hated.
Cruelty and injustice could not dim for him the brilliance of the careers of those brigand
lords who were his friends and patrons.

The material for the earlier part of his Chronicles he took largely from his predecessor and
model, Jean Lebel; the later books are filled with narratives of what he saw with his own eyes,
or gathered from the lips of men who had themselves been part of what they told. This fact,
along with his mastery of a style which is always vivacious if sometimes diffuse, accounts
for the vividness and picturesqueness of his work. The pageant of medieval life in court and
camp dazzled and delighted him, and it is as a pageant that we see the Middle Ages in his book.

Froissart holds a distinguished place among the poets as well as the historians of his century.
He wrote chiefly in the allegorical style then in vogue; and his poems, though cast in a mold
no longer in fashion, are fresh and full of color, and were found worthy of imitation by Geoffrey
Chaucer.

But it is as the supreme chronicler of the later age of chivalry that he lives. "God has been
gracious enough" he writes, "to permit me to visit the courts and palaces of kings, ... and
all the nobles, kings, dukes, counts, barons, and knights, belonging to all nations, have been
kind to me, have listened to me, willingly received me, and proved very useful to me.... Wherever
I went I enquired of old knights and squires who had shared in deeds of arms, and could speak
with authority concerning them, and also spoke with heralds in order to verify and corroborate
all that was told me. In this way I gathered noble facts for my history, and as long as I live,
I shall, by the grace of God, continue to do this, for the more I labour at this the more pleasure
I have, and I trust that the gentle knight who loves arms will be nourished on such noble fare,
and accomplish still more."

THE CAMPAIGN OF CRECY

HOW THE KING OF ENGLAND CAME OVER THE SEA AGAIN, TO RESCUE THEM IN AIGUILLON

The king of England, who had heard how his men were sore constrained in the castle of Aiguillon,
then he thought to go over the sea into Gascoyne with a great army. There he made his provision
and sent for men all about his realm and in other places, where he thought to speed for his
money. In the same season the lord Godfrey of Harcourt came into England, who was banished
out of France: he was well received with the king and retained to be about him, and had fair
lands assigned him in England to maintain his degree. Then the king caused a great navy of
ships to be ready in the haven of Hampton, and caused all manner of men of war to draw thither.
About the feast of Saint John Baptist the year of our Lord God MCCCXLVI., the king departed
from the queen and left her in the guiding of the earl of Kent his cousin; and he stablished
the lord Percy and the lord Nevill to be wardens of his realm with (the archbishop of Canterbury,)
the archbishop of York, the bishop of Lincoln and the bishop of Durham; for he never voided
his realm but that he left ever enough at home to keep and defend the realm, if need were.
Then the king rode to Hampton and there tarried for wind: then he entered into his ship and
the prince of Wales with him, and the lord Godfrey of Harcourt, and all other lords, earls,
barons and knights, with all their companies. They were in number a four thousand men of arms
and ten thousand archers, beside Irishmen and Welshmen that followed the host afoot.

Now I shall name you certain of the lords that went over with king Edward in that journey.
First, Edward his eldest son, prince of Wales, who as then was of the age of thirteen years
or thereabout,[1] the earls of Hereford, Northampton, Arundel, Cornwall, Warwick, Huntingdon,
Suffolk, and Oxford; and of barons the lord Mortimer, who was after earl of March, the lords
John, Louis and Roger of Beauchamp, and the lord Raynold Cobham; of lords the lord of Mowbray,
Ros, Lucy, Felton, Bradestan, Multon, Delaware, Manne,[2] Basset, Berkeley, and Willoughby,
with divers other lords; and of bachelors there was John Chandos, Fitz-Warin, Peter and James
Audley, Roger of Wetenhale, Bartholomew of Burghersh, and Richard of Pembridge, with divers
other that I cannot name. Few there were of strangers: there was the earl Hainault,[3] sir
Wulfart of Ghistelles, and five or six other knights of Almaine, and many other that I cannot name.

      [1] He was in fact sixteen; born 15th June 1330.

      [2] Probably 'Mohun'.

      [3] The usual confusion between 'comté' and 'comte.' It means,
      'of the county of Hainault there was sir Wulfart of Ghistelles,'
      etc.

Thus they sailed forth that day in the name of God. They were well onward on their way toward
Gascoyne, but on the third day there rose a contrary wind and drave them on the marches of
Cornwall, and there they lay at anchor six days. In that space the king had other counsel by
the means of sir Godfrey Harcourt: he counselled the king not to go into Gascoyne, but rather
to set aland in Normandy, and said to the king: 'Sir, the country of Normandy is one of the
plenteous countries of the world: sir, on jeopardy of my head, if ye will land there, there
is none that shall resist you; the people of Normandy have not been used to the war, and all
the knights and squires of the country are now at the siege before Aiguillon with the duke.
And, sir, there ye shall find great towns that be not walled, whereby your men shall have such
winning, that they shall be the better thereby twenty year after; and, sir, ye may follow with
your army till ye come to Caen in Normandy: sir, I require you to believe me in this voyage,'

The king, who was as then but in the flower of his youth, desiring nothing so much as to have
deeds of arms, inclined greatly to the saying of the lord Harcourt, whom he called cousin.
Then he commanded the mariners to set their course to Normandy, and he took into his ship the
token of the admiral the earl of Warwick, and said now he would be admiral for that viage,
and so sailed on before as governour of that navy, and they had wind at will. Then the king
arrived in the isle of Cotentin, at a port called Hogue Saint-Vaast.[4]

      [4] Saint-Vaast-de la Hogue.

Tidings anon spread abroad how the Englishmen were aland: the towns of Cotentin sent word thereof
to Paris to king Philip. He had well heard before how the king of England was on the sea with
a great army, but he wist not what way he would draw, other into Normandy, Bretayne or Gascoyne.
As soon as he knew that the king of England was aland in Normandy, he sent his constable the
earl of Guines, and the earl of Tancarville, who were but newly come to him from his son from
the siege at Alguillon, to the town of Caen, commanding them to keep that town against the
Englishmen. They said they would do their best: they departed from Paris with a good number
of men of war, and daily there came more to them by the way, and so came to the town of Caen,
where they were received with great joy of men of the town and of the country thereabout, that
were drawn thither for surety. These lords took heed for the provision of the town, the which
as then was not walled. The king thus was arrived at the port Hogue Saint-Vaast near to Saint-Saviour
the Viscount[5] the right heritage to the lord Godfrey of Harcourt, who as then was there with
the king of England.

      [5] Saint-Sauveur-le-Vicomte.

HOW THE KING OF ENGLAND RODE IN THREE BATTLES THROUGH NORMANDY

When the king of England arrived in the Hogue Saint-Vaast, the king issued out of his ship,
and the first foot that he set on the ground, he fell so rudely, that the blood brast out of
his nose. The knights that were about him took him up and said: 'Sir, for God's sake enter
again into your ship, and come not aland this day, for this is but an evil sign for us.' Then
the king answered quickly and said: 'Wherefore? This is a good token for me, for the land desireth
to have me.' Of the which answer all his men were right joyful. So that day and night the king
lodged on the sands, and in the meantime discharged the ships of their horses and other baggages:
there the king made two marshals of his host, the one the lord Godfrey of Harcourt and the
other the earl of Warwick, and the earl of Arundel constable. And he ordained that the earl
of Huntingdon should keep the fleet of ships with a hundred men of arms and four hundred archers:
and also he ordained three battles, one to go on his right hand, closing to the sea-side, and
the other on his left hand, and the king himself in the midst, and every night to lodge all
in one field.

Thus they set forth as they were ordained, and they that went by the sea took all the ships
that they found in their ways: and so long they went forth, what by sea and what by land, that
they came to a good port and to a good town called Barfleur, the which incontinent was won,
for they within gave up for fear of death. Howbeit, for all that, the town was robbed, and
much gold and silver there found, and rich jewels: there was found so much riches, that the
boys and villains of the host set nothing by good furred gowns: they made all the men of the
town to issue out and to go into the ships, because they would not suffer them to be behind
them for fear of rebelling again. After the town of Barfleur was thus taken and robbed without
brenning, then they spread abroad in the country and did what they list, for there was not
to resist them. At last they came to a great and a rich town called Cherbourg: the town they
won and robbed it, and brent part thereof, but into the castle they could not come, it was
so strong and well furnished with men of war. Then they passed forth and came to Montebourg,
and took it and robbed and brent it clean. In this manner they brent many other towns in that
country and won so much riches, that it was marvel to reckon it. Then they came to a great
town well closed called Carentan, where there was also a strong castle and many soldiers within
to keep it. Then the lords came out of their ships and fiercely made assault: the burgesses
of the town were in great fear of their lives, wives and children: they suffered the Englishmen
to enter into the town against the will of all the soldiers that were there; they put all their
goods to the Englishmen's pleasures, they thought that most advantage. When the soldiers within
saw that, they went into the castle: the Englishmen went into the town, and two days together
they made sore assaults, so that when they within saw no succour, they yielded up, their lives
and goods saved, and so departed. The Englishmen had their pleasure of that good town and castle,
and when they saw they might not maintain to keep it, they set fire therein and brent it, and
made the burgesses of the town to enter into their ships, as they had done with them of Barfleur,
Cherbourg and Montebourg, and of other towns that they had won on the sea-side. All this was
done by the battle that went by the sea-side, and by them on the sea together.[1]

      [1] Froissart is mistaken in supposing that a division of the
      land army went to these towns. Barfleur and Cherbourg were
      visited only by the fleet. According to Michael of Northburgh,
      who accompanied the expedition, Edward disembarked 12th July
      and remained at Saint Vaast till the 18th, and meanwhile the
      fleet went to Barfleur and Cherbourg. The army arrived at Caen
      on the 26th.

Now let us speak of the king's battle. When he had sent his first battle along by the sea-side,
as ye have heard, whereof one of his marshals, the earl of Warwick, was captain, and the lord
Cobham with him, then he made his other marshal to lead his host on his left hand, for he knew
the issues and entries of Normandy better than any other did there. The lord Godfrey as marshal
rode forth with five hundred men of arms, and rode off from the king's battle as six or seven
leagues, in brenning and exiling the country, the which was plentiful of everything--the granges
full of corn, the houses full of all riches, rich burgesses, carts and chariots, horse, swine,
muttons and other beasts: they took what them list and brought into the king's host; but the
soldiers made no count to the king nor to none of his officers of the gold and silver that
they did get; they kept that to themselves. Thus sir Godfrey of Harcourt rode every day off
from the king's host, and for most part every night resorted to the king's field. The king
took his way to Saint-Lo in Cotentin, but or he came there he lodged by a river, abiding for
his men that rode along by the sea-side; and when they were come, they set forth their carriage,
and the earl of Warwick, the earl of Suffolk, sir Thomas Holland and sir Raynold Cobham, and
their company rode out on the one side and wasted and exiled the country, as the lord Harcourt
had done; and the king ever rode between these battles, and every night they lodged together.

OF THE GREAT ASSEMBLY THAT THE FRENCH KING MADE TO RESIST THE KING OF ENGLAND

Thus by the Englishmen was brent, exiled, robbed, wasted and pilled the good, plentiful country
of Normandy. Then the French king sent for the lord John of Hainault, who came to him with
a great number: also the king sent for other men of arms, dukes, earls, barons, knights and
squires, and assembled together the greatest number of people that had been seen in France
a hundred year before. He sent for men into so far countries, that it was long or they came
together, wherefore the king of England did what him list in the mean season. The French king
heard well what he did, and sware and said how they should siever return again unfought withal,
and that such hurts and damages as they had done should be dearly revenged; wherefore he had
sent letters to his friends in the Empire, to such as were farthest off, and also to the gentle
king of Bohemia and to the lord Charles his son, who from thenceforth was called king of Almaine;
he was made king by the aid of his father and the French king, and had taken on him the arms
of the Empire: the French king desired them to come to him with all their powers, to the intent
to fight with the king o£ England, who brent and wasted his country. These princes and lords
made them ready with great number of men o£ arms, of Almains, Bohemians and Luxemburgers, and
so came to the French king. Also king Philip sent to the duke of Lorraine, who came to serve
him with three hundred spears: also there came the earl (of) Salm in Saumois, the earl of Sarrebruck,
the earl of Flanders, the earl William of Namur, every man with a fair company.

Ye have heard herebefore of the order of the Englishmen, how they went in three battles, the
marshals on the right hand and on the left, the king and the prince of Wales his son in the
midst They rode but small journeys and every day took their lodgings between noon and three
of the clock, and found the country so fruitful, that they needed not to make no provision
for their host, but all only for wine; and yet they found reasonably sufficient thereof.[1]
It was no marvel though they of the country were afraid, for before that time they had never
seen men of war, nor they wist not what war or battle meant. They fled away as far as they
might hear speaking of the Englishmen,[2] and left their houses well stuffed, and granges full
of corn, they wist not how to save and keep it. The king of England and the prince had in their
battle a three thousand men of arms and six thousand archers and a ten thousand men afoot,
beside them that rode with the marshals.

      [1] Or rather, 'thus they found reasonably sufficient provisions.'

      [2] That is, they fled as soon as they heard their coming spoken
      of.

Thus as ye have heard, the king rode forth, wasting and brenning the country without breaking
of his order. He left the city of Coutances[3] and went to a great town called Saint-Lo, a
rich town of drapery and many rich burgesses. In that town there were dwelling an eight or
nine score burgesses, crafty men. When the king came there, he took his lodging without, for
he would never lodge in the town for fear of fire: but he sent his men before and anon the
town was taken and clean robbed. It was hard to think the great riches that there was won,
in clothes specially; cloth would there have been sold good cheap, if there had been any buyers.

      [3] That is, he did not turn aside to go to it. Froissart
      says, 'He did not turn aside to the city of Coutances, but went
      on toward the great town of Saint-Lo in Cotentin, which at that
      time was very rich and of great merchandise and three times as
      great as the city of Coutances.' Michael of Northburgh says that
      Barfleur was about equal in importance to Sandwich and Carentan
      to Leicester, Saint-Lo greater than Lincoln, and Caen greater
      than any city in England except London.

Then the king went toward Caen, the which was a greater town and full of drapery and other
merchandise, and rich burgesses, noble ladies and damosels, and fair churches, and specially
two great and rich abbeys, one of the Trinity, another of Saint Stephen; and on the one side
of the town one of the fairest castles of all Normandy, and captain therein was Robert of Wargny,
with three hundred Genoways, and in the town was the earl of Eu and of Guines, constable of
France, and the earl of Tancarville, with a good number of men of war. The king of England
rode that day in good order and lodged all his battles together that night, a two leagues from
Caen, in a town with a little haven called Austrehem, and thither came also all his navy of
ships with the earl of Huntingdon, who was governour of them.

The constable and other lords of France that night watched well the town of Caen, and in the
morning armed them with all them of the town: then the constable ordained that none should
issue out, but keep their defences on the walls, gate, bridge and river, and left the suburbs
void, because they were not closed; for they thought they should have enough to do to defend
the town, because it was not closed but with the river. They of the town said how they would
issue out, for they were strong enough to fight with the king of England. When the constable
saw their good wills, he said: 'In the name of God be it, ye shall not fight without me,' Then
they issued out in good order and made good face to fight and to defend them and to put their
lives in adventure.

OF THE BATTLE OF CAEN, AND HOW THE ENGLISHMEN TOOK THE TOWN

The same day the Englishmen rose early and apparelled them ready to go to Caen.[1] The king
heard mass before the sun-rising and then took his horse, and the prince his son, with sir
Godfrey of Harcourt marshal and leader of the host, whose counsel the king much followed. Then
they drew toward Caen with their battles in good array, and so approached the good town of
Caen. When they of the town, who were ready in the field, saw these three battles coming in
good order, with their banners and standards waving in the wind, and the archers, the which
they had not been accustomed to see, they were sore afraid and fled away toward the town without
any order or good array, for all that the constable could do: then the Englishmen pursued them
eagerly. When the constable and the earl Tancarville saw that, they took a gate at the entry
and saved themselves[2] and certain with them, for the Englishmen were entered into the town.
Some of the knights and squires of France, such as knew the way to the castle, went thither,
and the captain there received them all, for the castle was large. The Englishmen in the chase
slew many, for they took none to mercy.

      [1] This was 26th July. Edward arrived at Poissy on 12th August.
      Philip of Valois left Paris on the 14th, the English crossed the
      Seine at Poissy on the 16th, and the Somme at Blanche-taque on
      the 24th.

      [2] 'Set themselves for safety in a gate at the entry of the
      bridge.'

Then the constable and the earl of Tancarville, being in the little tower at the bridge foot,
looked along the street and saw their men slain without mercy: they doubted to fall in their
hands. At last they saw an English knight with one eye called sir Thomas Holland, and a five
or six other knights with him: they knew them, for they had seen them before in Pruce, in Granade,
and in other viages. Then they called to sir Thomas and said how they would yield themselves
prisoners. Then sir Thomas came thither with his company and mounted up into the gate, and
there found the said lords with twenty-five knights with them, who yielded them to sir Thomas,
and he took them for his prisoners and left company to keep them, and then mounted again on
his horse and rode into the streets, and saved many lives of ladies, damosels, and cloisterers
from defoiling, for the soldiers were without mercy. It fell so well the same season for the
Englishmen, that the river, which was able to bear ships, at that time was so low, that men
went in and out beside the bridge. They of the town were entered into their houses, and cast
down into the street stones, timber and iron, and slew and hurt more than five hundred Englishmen,
wherewith the king was sore displeased. At night when he heard thereof, he commanded that the
next day all should be put to the sword and the town brent; but then sir Godfrey of Harcourt
said: 'Dear sir, for God's sake assuage somewhat your courage, and let it suffice you that
ye have done. Ye have yet a great voyage to do or ye come before Calais, whither ye purpose
to go; and, sir, in this town there is much people who will defend their houses, and it will
cost many of your men their lives, or ye have all at your will; whereby peradventure ye shall
not keep your purpose to Calais, the which should redound to your rack. Sir, save your people,
for ye shall have need of them or this month pass; for I think verily your adversary king Philip
will meet with you to fight, and ye shall find many straight passages and rencounters; wherefore
your men, an ye had more, shall stand you in good stead: and, sir, without any further slaying
ye shall be lord of this town; men and women will put all that they have to your pleasure.'
Then the king said: 'Sir Godfrey, you are our marshal, ordain everything as ye will.' Then
sir Godfrey with his banner rode from street to street, and commanded in the king's name none
to be so hardy to put fire in any house, to slay any person, nor to violate any woman. When
they of the town heard that cry, they received the Englishmen into their houses and made them
good cheer, and some opened their coffers and bade them take what them list, so they might
be assured of their lives; howbeit there were done in the town many evil deeds, murders and
robberies. Thus the Englishmen were lords of the town three days and won great riches, the
which they sent by barks and barges to Saint-Saviour by the river of Austrehem,[3] a two leagues
thence, whereas all their navy lay. Then the king sent the earl of Huntingdon with two hundred
men of arms and four hundred archers, with his navy and prisoners and riches that they had
got, back again into England. And the king bought of sir Thomas Holland the constable of France
and the earl of Tancarville, and paid for them twenty thousand nobles.

      [3] Froissart says that they sent their booty in barges and
      boats 'on the river as far as Austrehem, a two leagues from
      thence, where their great navy lay.' He makes no mention of
      Saint-Sauveur here. The river in question is the Orne, at the
      mouth of which Austrehem is situated.

HOW SIR GODFREY OF HARCOURT FOUGHT WITH THEM OF AMIENS BEFORE PARIS

Thus the king of England ordered his business, being in the town of Caen, and sent into England
his navy of ships charged with clothes, jewels, vessels of gold and silver, and of other riches,
and of prisoners more than sixty knights and three hundred burgesses. Then he departed from
the town of Caen and rode in the same order as he did before, brenning and exiling the country,
and took the way to Evreux and so passed by it; and from thence they rode to a great town called
Louviers: it was the chief town of all Normandy of drapery, riches, and full of merchandise.
The Englishmen soon entered therein, for as then it was not closed; it was overrun, spoiled
and robbed without mercy: there was won great riches. Then they entered into the country of
Evreux and brent and pilled all the country except the good towns closed and castles, to the
which the king made none assault, because of the sparing of his people and his artillery.

On the river of Seine near to Rouen there was the earl of Harcourt, brother to sir Godfrey
of Harcourt, but he was on the French party, and the earl of Dreux with him, with a good number
of men of war: but the Englishmen left Rouen and went to Gisors, where was a strong castle:
they brent the town and then they brent Vernon and all the country about Rouen and Pont-de-l'Arche
and came to Mantes and to Meulan, and wasted all the country about, and passed by the strong
castle of Rolleboise; and in every place along the river of Seine they found the bridges broken.
At last they came to Poissy, and found the bridge broken, but the arches and joists lay in
the river: the king lay there a five days: in the mean season the bridge was made, to pass
the host without peril. The English marshals ran abroad just to Paris, and brent Saint-Germain
in Laye and Montjoie, and Saint-Cloud, and petty Boulogne by Paris, and the Queen's Bourg:[1]
they of Paris were not well assured of themselves, for it was not as then closed.

      [1] Bourg-la-Reine.

Then king Philip removed to Saint-Denis, and or he went caused all the pentices in Paris to
be pulled down; and at Saint-Denis were ready come the king of Bohemia, the lord John of Hainault,
the duke of Lorraine, the earl of Flanders, the earl of Blois, and many other great lords and
knights, ready to serve the French king. When the people of Paris saw their king depart, they
came to him and kneeled down and said: 'Ah, sir and noble king, what will ye do? leave thus
this noble city of Paris?' The king said: 'My good people, doubt ye not: the Englishmen will
approach you no nearer than they be.' 'Why so, sir?' quoth they; 'they be within these two
leagues, and as soon as they know of your departing, they will come and assail us; and we not
able to defend them: sir, tarry here still and help to defend your good city of Paris.' 'Speak
no more,' quoth the king, 'for I will go to Saint-Denis to my men of war: for I will encounter
the Englishmen and fight against them, whatsoever fall thereof.'

The king of England was at Poissy, and lay in the nunnery there, and kept there the feast of
our Lady in August and sat in his robes of scarlet furred with ermines; and after that feast
he went forth in order as they were before. The lord Godfrey of Harcourt rode out on the one
side with five hundred men of arms and thirteen[2] hundred archers; and by adventure he encountered
a great number of burgesses of Amiens a-horseback, who were riding by the king's commandment
to Paris. They were quickly assailed and they defended themselves valiantly, for they were
a great number and well armed: there were four knights of Amiens their captains. This skirmish
dured long: at the first meeting many were overthrown on both parts; but finally the burgesses
were taken and nigh all slain, and the Englishmen took all their carriages and harness. They
were well stuffed, for they were going to the French king well appointed, because they had
not seen him a great season before. There were slain in the field a twelve hundred.

      [2] A better reading is 'twelve.'

Then the king of England entered into the country of Beauvoisis, brenning and exiling the plain
country, and lodged at a fair abbey and a rich called Saint-Messien[3] near to Beauvais: there
the king tarried a night and in the morning departed. And when he was on his way he looked
behind him and saw the abbey a-fire: he caused incontinent twenty of them to be hanged that
set the fire there, for he had commanded before on pain of death none to violate any church
nor to bren any abbey. Then the king passed by the city of Beauvais without any assault giving,
for because he would not trouble his people nor waste his artillery. And so that day he took
his lodging betime in a little town called Milly. The two marshals came so near to Beauvais,
that they made assault and skirmish at the barriers in three places, the which assault endured
a long space; but the town within was so well defended by the means of the bishop, who was
there within, that finally the Englishmen departed, and brent clean hard to the gates all the
suburbs, and then at night they came into the king's field.

      [3] Commonly called Saint-Lucien, but Saint Maximianus (Messien)
      is also associated with the place.

The next day the king departed, brenning and wasting all before him, and at night lodged in
a good village called Grandvilliers. The next day the king passed by Dargies: there was none
to defend the castle, wherefore it was soon taken and brent. Then they went forth destroying
the country all about, and so came to the castle of Poix, where there was a good town and two
castles. There was nobody in them but two fair damosels, daughters to the lord of Poix; they
were soon taken, and had been violated, an two English knights had not been, sir John Chandos
and sir Basset; they defended them and brought them to the king, who for his honour made them
good cheer and demanded of them whither they would fainest go. They said, 'To Corbie,' and
the king caused them to be brought thither without peril. That night the king lodged in the
town of Poix. They of the town and of the castles spake that night with the marshals of the
host, to save them and their town from brenning, and they to pay a certain sum of florins the
next day as soon as the host was departed. This was granted them, and in the morning the king
departed with all his host except a certain that were left there to receive the money that
they of the town had promised to pay. When they of the town saw the host depart and but a few
left behind, then they said they would pay never a penny, and so ran out and set on the Englishmen,
who defended themselves as well as they might and sent after the host for succour. When sir
Raynold Cobham and sir Thomas Holland, who had the rule of the rearguard, heard thereof, they
returned and cried, 'Treason, treason!' and so came again to Poix-ward and found their companions
still fighting with them of the town. Then anon they of the town were nigh all slain, and the
town brent, and the two castles beaten down. Then they returned to the king's host, who was
as then at Airaines and there lodged, and had commanded all manner of men on pain of death
to do no hurt to no town of Arsyn,[4] for there the king was minded to lie a day or two to
take advice how he might pass the river of Somme; for it was necessary for him to pass the
river, as ye shall hear after.

      [4] A mistranslation. The original is '(Il avoit) deffendu sus
      le hart que nuls ne fourfesist rien à le ville d'arsin ne d'autre
      cose,' 'he had commanded all on pain of hanging to do no hurt to
      the town by burning or otherwise.' The translator has taken
      'arsin' for a proper name.

HOW THE FRENCH KING FOLLOWED THE KING OF ENGLAND IN BEAUVOISINOIS

Now let us speak of King Philip, who was at Sant-Denis and his people about him, and daily
increased. Then on a day he departed and rode so long that he came to Coppegueule, a three
leagues from Amiens, and there he tarried. The king of England being at Airaines wist not where
for to pass the river of Somme, the which was large and deep, and all bridges were broken and
the passages well kept. Then at the king's commandment his two marshals with a thousand men
of arms and two thousand archers went along the river to find some passage, and passed by Longpré,
and came to the bridge of Remy,[1] the which was well kept with a great number of knights and
squires and men of the country. The Englishmen alighted afoot and assailed the Frenchmen from
the morning till it was noon; but the bridge was so well fortified and defended, that the Englishmen
departed without winning of anything. Then they went to a great town called Fountains on the
river of Somme, the which was clean robbed and brent, for it was not closed. Then they went
to another town called Long-en-Ponthieu; they could not win the bridge, it was so well kept
and defended. Then they departed and went to Picquigny, and found the town, the bridge, and
the castle so well fortified, that it was not likely to pass there: the French king had so
well defended the passages, to the intent that the king of England should not pass the river
of Somme, to fight with him at his advantage or else to famish him there.

      [1] Pont-à-Remy, corrupted here into 'bridge of Athyne.'

When these two marshals had assayed in all places to find passage and could find none, they
returned again to the king, and shewed how they could find no passage in no place. The same
night the French king came to Amiens with more than a hundred thousand men. The king of England
was right pensive, and the next morning heard mass before the sun-rising and then dislodged;
and every man followed the marshals' banners and so rode in the country of Vimeu approaching
to the good town of Abbeville, and found a town thereby, whereunto was come much people of
the country in trust of a little defence that was there; but the Englishmen anon won it; and
all they that were within slain, and many taken of the town and of the country. The king took
his lodging in a great hospital[2] that was there. The same day the French king departed from
Amiens and came to Airaines about noon; and the Englishmen were departed thence in the morning.
The Frenchmen found there great provision that the Englishmen had left behind them, because
they departed in haste. There they found flesh ready on the broaches, bread and pasties in
the ovens, wine in tuns and barrels, and the tables ready laid. There the French king lodged
and tarried for his lords.

      [2] That is, a house of the knights of Saint John.

That night the king of England was lodged at Olsemont. At night when the two marshals were
returned, who had that day overrun the country to the gates of Abbeville and to Saint-Valery
and made a great skirmish there, then the king assembled together his council and made to be
brought before him certain prisoners of the country of Ponthieu and of Vimeu. The king right
courteously demanded of them, if there were any among them that knew any passage beneath Abbeville,
that he and his host might pass over the river of Somme: if he would shew him thereof, he should
be quit of his ransom, and twenty of his company for his love. There was a varlet called Gobin
Agace who stepped forth and said to the king: 'Sir, I promise you on the jeopardy of my head
I shall bring you to such a place, whereas ye and all your host shall pass the river of Somme
without peril. There be certain places in the passage that ye shall pass twelve men afront
two times between day and night: ye shall not go in the water to the knees. But when the flood
cometh, the river then waxeth so great, that no man can pass; but when the flood is gone, the
which is two times between day and night, then the river is so low, that it may be passed without
danger both a-horseback and afoot. The passage is hard in the bottom with white stones, so
that all your carriage may go surely; therefore the passage is called Blanche-taque. An ye
make ready to depart betimes, ye may be there by the sun-rising.' The king said: 'If this be
true that ye say, I quit thee thy ransom and all thy company, and moreover shall give thee
a hundred nobles.' Then the king commanded every man to be ready at the sound of the trumpet
to depart.

OF THE BATTLE OF BLANCHE-TAQUE BETWEEN THE KING OF ENGLAND AND SIR GODEMAR DU FAY

The king of England slept not much that night, for at midnight he arose and sowned his trumpet:
then incontinent they made ready carriages and all things, and at the breaking of the day they
departed from the town of Oisemont and rode after the guiding of Gobin Agace, so that they
came by the sun-rising to Blanche-taque; but as then the flood was up, so that they might not
pass: so the king tarried there till it was prime; then the ebb came.

The French king had his currours in the country, who brought him word of the demeanour of the
Englishmen. Then he thought to close the king of England between Abbeville and the river of
Somme, and so to fight with him at his pleasure. And when he was at Amiens he had ordained
a great baron of Normandy, called sir Godemar du Fay, to go and keep the passage of Blanche-taque,
where the Englishmen must pass or else in none other place. He had with him a thousand men
of arms and six thousand afoot, with the Genoways: so they went by Saint-Riquier in Ponthieu
and from thence to Crotoy, whereas the passage lay; and also he had with him a great number
of men of the country, and also a great number of them of Montreuil, so that they were a twelve
thousand men one and other.

When the English host was come thither, sir Godemar du Fay arranged all his company to defend
the passage. The king of England let not for all that; but when the flood was gone, he commanded
his marshals to enter into the water in the name of God and Saint George. Then they that were
hardy and courageous entered on both parties, and many a man reversed. There were some of the
Frenchmen of Artois and Picardy that were as glad to joust in the water as on the dry land.

The Frenchmen defended so well the passage at the issuing out of the water, that they had much
to do. The Genoways did them great trouble with their cross-bows: on the other side the archers
of England shot so wholly together, that the Frenchmen were fain to give place to the Englishmen.
There was a sore battle, and many a noble feat of arms done on both sides. Finally the Englishmen
passed over and assembled together in the field. The king and the prince passed, and all the
lords; then the Frenchmen kept none array, but departed, he that might best. When sir Godemar
saw that discomfiture, he fled and saved himself: some fled to Abbeville and some to Saint-Riquiers.
They that were there afoot could not flee, so that there were slain a great number of them
of Abbeville, Montreuil, Rue and of Saint-Riquiers: the chase endured more than a great league.
And as yet all the Englishmen were not passed the river, and certain currours of the king of
Bohemia and of sir John of Hainault came on them that were behind and took certain horses and
carriages and slew divers, or they could take the passage.

The French king the same morning was departed from Airaines, trusting to have found the Englishmen
between him and the river of Somme: but when he heard how that sir Godemar du Fay and his company
were discomfited, he tarried in the field and demanded of his marshals what was best to do.
They said, 'Sir, ye cannot pass the river but at the bridge of Abbeville, for the flood is
come in at Blanche-taque': then he returned and lodged at Abbeville.

The king of England when he was past the river, he thanked God and so rode forth in like manner
as he did before. Then he called Gobin Agace and did quit him his ransom and all his company,
and gave him a hundred nobles and a good horse. And so the king rode forth fair and easily,
and thought to have lodged in a great town called Noyelles; but when he knew that the town
pertained to the countess d'Aumale, sister to the lord Robert of Artois,[1] the king assured
the town and country as much as pertained to her, and so went forth; and his marshals rode
to Crotoy on the sea-side and brent the town, and found in the haven many ships and barks charged
with wines of Poitou, pertaining to the merchants of Saintonge and of Rochelle: they brought
the best thereof to the king's host. Then one of the marshals rode to the gates of Abbeville
and from thence to Saint-Riquiers, and after to the town of Rue-Saint-Esprit. This was on a
Friday, and both battles of the marshals returned to the king's host about noon and so lodged
all together near to Cressy in Ponthieu.

      [1] She was in fact his daughter.

The king of England was well informed how the French king followed after him to fight. Then
he said to his company: 'Let us take here some plot of ground, for we will go no farther till
we have seen our enemies. I have good cause here to abide them, for I am on the right heritage
of the queen my mother, the which land was given at her marriage: I will challenge it of mine
adversary Philip of Valois.' And because that he had not the eighth part in number of men as
the French king had, therefore he commanded his marshals to chose a plot of ground somewhat
for his advantage: and so they did, and thither the king and his host went. Then he sent his
currours to Abbeville, to see if the French king drew that day into the field or not. They
went forth and returned again, and said how they could see none appearance of his coming: then
every man took their lodging for that day, and to be ready in the morning at the sound of the
trumpet in the same place. This Friday the French king tarried still in Abbeville abiding for
his company, and sent his two marshals to ride out to see the dealing of the Englishmen, and
at night they returned, and said how the Englishmen were lodged in the fields. That night the
French king made a supper to all the chief lords that were there with him, and after supper
the king desired them to be friends each to other. The king looked for the earl of Savoy, who
should come to him with a thousand spears, for he had received wages for a three months of
them at Troyes in Champagne.

OF THE ORDER OF THE ENGLISHMEN AT CRESSY, HOW THEY MADE THREE BATTLES AFOOT

On the Friday, as I said before, the king of England lay in the fields, for the country was
plentiful of wines and other victual, and if need had been, they had provision following in
carts and other carriages. That night the king made a supper to all his chief lords of his
host and made them good cheer; and when they were all departed to take their rest, then the
king entered into his oratory and kneeled down before the altar, praying God devoutly, that
if he fought the next day, that he might achieve the journey to his honour: then about midnight
he laid him down to rest, and in the morning he rose betimes and heard mass, and the prince
his son with him, and the most part of his company were confessed and houselled; and after
the mass said, he commanded every man to be armed and to draw to the field to the same place
before appointed. Then the king caused a park to be made by the wood side behind his host,
and there was set all carts and carriages, and within the park were all their horses, for every
man was afoot; and into this park there was but one entry. Then he ordained three battles:
in the first was the young prince of Wales, with him the earl of Warwick and Oxford, the lord
Godfrey of Harcourt, sir Raynold Cobham, sir Thomas Holland, the lord Stafford, the lord of
Mohun, the lord Delaware, sir John Chandos, sir Bartholomew de Burghersh, sir Robert Nevill,
the lord Thomas Clifford, the lord Bourchier, the lord de Latimer, and divers other knights
and squires that I cannot name: they were an eight hundred men of arms and two thousand archers,
and a thousand of other with the Welshmen: every lord drew to the field appointed under his
own banner and pennon. In the second battle was the earl of Northampton, the earl of Arundel,
the lord Ros, the lord Lucy, the lord Willoughby, the lord Basset, the lord of Saint-Aubin,
sir Louis Tufton, the lord of Multon, the lord Lascelles and divers other, about an eight hundred
men of arms and twelve hundred archers. The third battle had the king: he had seven hundred
men of arms and two thousand archers. Then the king leapt on a hobby,[1] with a white rod in
his hand, one of his marshals on the one hand and the other on the other hand: he rode from
rank to rank desiring every man to take heed that day to his right and honour. He spake it
so sweetly and with so good countenance and merry cheer, that all such as were discomfited
took courage in the seeing and hearing of him. And when he had thus visited all his battles,
it was then nine of the day: then he caused every man to eat and drink a little, and so they
did at their leisure. And afterward they ordered again their battles: then every man lay down
on the earth and by him his salet and bow, to be the more fresher when their enemies should come.

      [1] 'Un petit palefroi.'

THE ORDER OF THE FRENCHMEN AT CRESSY, AND HOW THEY BEHELD THE DEMEANOUR OF THE ENGLISHMEN

This Saturday the French king rose betimes and heard mass in Abbeville in his lodging in the
abbey of Saint Peter, and he departed after the sun-rising. When he was out of the town two
leagues, approaching toward his enemies, some of his lords said to him: 'Sir, it were good
that ye ordered your battles, and let all your footmen pass somewhat on before, that they be
not troubled with the horsemen.' Then the king sent four knights, the Moine (of) Bazeilles,
the lord of Noyers, the lord of Beaujeu and the lord d'Aubigny to ride to aview the English
host; and so they rode so near that they might well see part of their dealing. The Englishmen
saw them well and knew well how they were come thither to aview them: they let them alone and
made no countenance toward them, and let them return as they came. And when the French king
saw these four knights return again, he tarried till they came to him and said: 'Sirs, what
tidings?' These four knights each of them looked on other, for there was none would speak before
his companion; finally the king said to (the) Moine, who pertained to the king of Bohemia and
had done in his days so much, that he was reputed for one of the valiantest knights of the
world: 'Sir, speak you,' Then he said: 'Sir, I shall speak, sith it pleaseth you, under the
correction of my fellows. Sir, we have ridden and seen the behaving of your enemies: know ye
for truth they are rested in three battles abiding for you. Sir, I will counsel you as for
my part, saving your displeasure, that you and all your company rest here and lodge for this
night: for or they that be behind of your company be come hither, and or your battles be set
in good order, it will be very late, and your people be weary and out of array, and ye shall
find your enemies fresh and ready to receive you. Early in the morning ye may order your battles
at more leisure and advise your enemies at more deliberation, and to regard well what way ye
will assail them; for, sir, surely they will abide you.'

Then the king commanded that it should be so done. Then his two marshals one rode before, another
behind, saying to every banner: 'Tarry and abide here in the name of God and Saint Denis.'
They that were foremost tarried, but they that were behind would not tarry, but rode forth,
and said how they would in no wise abide till they were as far forward as the foremost: and
when they before saw them come on behind, then they rode forward again, so that the king nor
his marshals could not rule them. So they rode without order or good array, till they came
in sight of their enemies: and as soon as the foremost saw them, they reculed then aback without
good array, whereof they behind had marvel and were abashed, and thought that the foremost
company had been fighting. Then they might have had leisure and room to have gone forward,
if they had list: some went forth and some abode still. The commons, of whom all the ways between
Abbeville and Cressy were full, when they saw that they were near to their enemies, they took
their swords and cried: 'Down with them! let us slay them all.' There is no man, though he
were present at the journey, that could imagine or shew the truth of the evil order that was
among the French party, and yet they were a marvellous great number. That I write in this book
I learned it specially of the Englishmen, who well beheld their dealing; and also certain knights
of sir John of Hainault's, who was always about king Philip, shewed me as they knew.

OF THE BATTLE OF CRESSY BETWEEN THE KING OF ENGLAND AND THE FRENCH KING

The Englishmen, who were in three battles lying on the ground to rest them, as soon as they
saw the Frenchmen approach, they rose upon their feet fair and easily without any haste and
arranged their battles. The first, which was the prince's battle, the archers there stood in
manner of a herse and the men of arms in the bottom of the battle. The earl of Northampton
and the earl of Arundel with the second battle were on a wing in good order, ready to comfort
the prince's battle, if need were.

The lords and knights of France came not to the assembly together in good order, for some came
before and some came after in such haste and evil order, that one of them did trouble another.
When the French king saw the Englishmen, his blood changed, and said to his marshals: 'Make
the Genoways go on before and begin the battle in the name of God and Saint Denis.' There were
of the Genoways cross-bows about a fifteen thousand,[1] but they were so weary of going afoot
that day a six leagues armed with their cross-bows, that they said to their constables: 'We
be not well ordered to fight this day, for we be not in the case to do any great deed of arms:
we have more need of rest.' These words came to the earl of Alengon, who said: 'A man is well
at ease to be charged with such a sort of rascals, to be faint and fail now at most need.'
Also the same season there fell a great rain and a clipse[2] with a terrible thunder, and before
the rain there came flying over both battles a great number of crows for fear of the tempest
coming. Then anon the air began to wax clear, and the sun to shine fair and bright, the which
was right in the Frenchmen's eyen and on the Englishmen's backs. When the Genoways were assembled
together and began to approach, they made a great leap[3] and cry to abash the Englishmen,
but they stood still and stirred not for all that: then the Genoways again the second time
made another leap and a fell cry, and stept forward a little, and the Englishmen removed not
one foot: thirdly, again they leapt and cried, and went forth till they came within shot; then
they shot fiercely with their cross-bows. Then the English archers stept forth one pace and
let fly their arrows so wholly (together) and so thick, that it seemed snow. When the Genoways
felt the arrows piercing through heads, arms and breasts, many of them cast down their cross-bows
and did cut their strings and returned discomfited. When the French king saw them fly away,
he said: 'Slay these rascals, for they shall let and trouble us without reason.' Then ye should
have seen the men of arms dash in among them and killed a great number of them: and ever still
the Englishmen shot whereas they saw thickest press; the sharp arrows ran into the men of arms
and into their horses, and many fell, horse and men, among the Genoways, and when they were
down, they could not relieve[4] again, the press was so thick that one overthrew another. And
also among the Englishmen there were certain rascals that went afoot with great knives, and
they went in among the men of arms, and slew and murdered many as they lay on the ground, both
earls, barons, knights and squires, whereof the king of England was after displeased, for he
had rather they had been taken prisoners.

      [1] Villani, a very good authority on the subject, says 6000,
      brought from the ships at Harfleur.

      [2] A mistranslation of 'une esclistre,' 'a flash of lightning.'

      [3] These 'leaps' of the Genoese are invented by the translator,
      and have passed from him into several respectable English
      text-books, sometimes in company with the eclipse above
      mentioned. Froissart says 'Il commencièrent à juper moult
      epouvantablement'; that is, 'to utter cries.' Another text makes
      mention of the English cannons at this point: 'The English
      remained still and let off some cannons that they had, to
      frighten the Genoese.'

      [4] The translator's word 'relieve' (relyuue) represents
      'relever,' for 'se relever.'

The valiant king of Bohemia called Charles of Luxembourg, son to the noble emperor Henry of
Luxembourg, for all that he was nigh blind, when he understood the order of the battle, he
said to them about him: 'Where is the lord Charles my son?' His men said: 'Sir, we cannot tell;
we think he be fighting.' Then he said: 'Sirs, ye are my men, my companions and friends in
this journey: I require you bring me so far forward, that I may strike one stroke with my sword.'
They said they would do his commandment, and to the intent that they should not lose him in
the press, they tied all their reins of their bridles each to other and set the king before
to accomplish his desire, and so they went on their enemies. The lord Charles of Bohemia his
son, who wrote himself king of Almaine and bare the arms, he came in good order to the battle;
but when he saw that the matter went awry on their party, he departed, I cannot tell you which
way. The king his father was so far forward that he strake a stroke with his sword, yea and
more than four, and fought valiantly and so did his company; and they adventured themselves
so forward, that they were there all slain, and the next day they were found in the place about
the king, and all their horses tied each to other.

The earl of Alençon came to the battle right ordinately and fought with the Englishmen, and
the earl of Flanders also on his part. These two lords with their companies coasted the English
archers and came to the prince's battle, and there fought valiantly long. The French king would
fain have come thither, when he saw their banners, but there was a great hedge of archers before
him. The same day the French king had given a great black courser to sir John of Hainault,
and he made the lord Tierry of Senzeille to ride on him and to bear his banner. The same horse
took the bridle in the teeth and brought him through all the currours of the Englishmen, and
as he would have returned again, he fell in a great dike and was sore hurt, and had been there
dead, an his page had not been, who followed him through all the battles and saw where his
master lay in the dike, and had none other let but for his horse, for the Englishmen would
not issue out of their battle for taking of any prisoner. Then the page alighted and relieved
his master: then he went not back again the same way that they came, there was too many in his way.

This battle between Broye and Cressy this Saturday was right cruel and fell, and many a feat
of arms done that came not to my knowledge. In the night[5] divers knights and squires lost
their masters, and sometime came on the Englishmen, who received them in such wise that they
were ever nigh slain; for there was none taken to mercy nor to ransom, for so the Englishmen
were determined.

      [5] 'Sus le nuit,' 'towards nightfall.'

In the morning[6] the day of the battle certain Frenchmen and Almains perforce opened the archers
of the prince's battle and came and fought with the men of arms hand to hand. Then the second
battle of the Englishmen came to succour the prince's battle, the which was time, for they
had as then much ado; and they with the prince sent a messenger to the king, who was on a little
windmill hill. Then the knight said to the king: 'Sir, the earl of Warwick and the earl of
Oxford, sir Raynold Cobham and other, such as be about the prince your son, are fiercely fought
withal and are sore handled; wherefore they desire you that you and your battle will come and
aid them; for if the Frenchmen increase, as they doubt they will, your son and they shall have
much ado.' Then the king said: 'Is my son dead or hurt or on the earth felled?' 'No, sir,'
quoth the knight, 'but he is hardly matched; wherefore he hath need of your aid.' 'Well,' said
the king, 'return to him and to them that sent you hither, and say to them that they send no
more to me for any adventure that falleth, as long as my son is alive: and also say to them
that they suffer him this day to win his spurs;[7] for if God be pleased, I will this journey
be his and the honour thereof, and to them that be about him.' Then the knight returned again
to them and shewed the king's words, the which greatly encouraged them, and repoined[8] in
that they had sent to the king as they did.

      [6] The text has suffered by omissions. What Froissart says is
      that if the battle had begun in the morning, it might have gone
      better for the French, and then he instances the exploits of
      those who broke through the archers. The battle did not begin
      till four o'clock in the afternoon.

      [7] 'Que il laissent à l'enfant gaegnier ses esperons.'

      [8] i.e. 'they repoined': Fr. 'se reprisent.'

Sir Godfrey of Harcourt would gladly that the earl of Harcourt his brother might have been
saved; for he heard say by them that saw his banner how that he was there in the field on the
French party: but sir Godfrey could not come to him betimes, for he was slain or he could come
at him, and so was also the earl of Aumale his nephew. In another place the earl of Alençon
and the earl of Flanders fought valiantly, every lord under his own banner; but finally they
could not resist against the puissance of the Englishmen, and so there they were also slain,
and divers other knights and squires. Also the earl Louis of Blois, nephew to the French king,
and the duke of Lorraine fought under their banners, but at last they were closed in among
a company of Englishmen and Welshmen, and there were slain for all their prowess. Also there
was slain the earl of Auxerre, the earl of Saint-Pol and many other.

In the evening the French king, who had left about him no more than a three-score persons,
one and other, whereof sir John of Hainault was one, who had remounted once the king, for his
horse was slain with an arrow, then he said to the king: 'Sir, depart hence, for it is time;
lose not yourself wilfully: if ye have loss at this time, ye shall recover it again another
season.' And so he took the king's horse by the bridle and led him away in a manner perforce.
Then the king rode till he came to the castle of Broye. The gate was closed, because it was
by that time dark: then the king called the captain, who came to the walls and said: 'Who is
that calleth there this time of night?' Then the king said: 'Open your gate quickly, for this
is the fortune of France.'[9] The captain knew then it was the king, and opened the gate and
let down the bridge. Then the king entered, and he had with him but five barons, sir John of
Hainault, sir Charles of Montmorency, the lord of Beaujeu, the lord d'Aubigny and the lord
of Montsault. The king would not tarry there, but drank and departed thence about midnight,
and so rode by such guides as knew the country till he came in the morning to Amiens, and there
he rested.

      [9] 'C'est la fortune de France': but the better MSS. have
      'c'est li infortunés rois de France.'

This Saturday the Englishmen never departed from their battles for chasing of any man, but
kept still their field, and ever defended themselves against all such as came to assail them.
This battle ended about evensong time.

HOW THE NEXT DAY AFTER THE BATTLE THE ENGLISHMEN DISCOMFITED DIVERS FRENCHMEN

On this Saturday, when the night was come and that the Englishmen heard no more noise of the
Frenchmen, then they reputed themselves to have the victory, and the Frenchmen to be discomfited,
slain and fled away. Then they made great fires and lighted up torches and candles, because
it was very dark. Then the king avaled down from the little hill whereas he stood; and of all
that day till then his helm came never on his head. Then he went with all his battle to his
son the prince and embraced him in his arms and kissed him, and said: 'Fair son, God give you
good perseverance; ye are my good son, thus ye have acquitted you nobly: ye are worthy to keep
a realm.' The prince inclined himself to the earth, honouring the king his father.

This night they thanked God for their good adventure and made no boast thereof, for the king
would that no man should be proud or make boast, but every man humbly to thank God. On the
Sunday in the morning there was such a mist, that a man might not see the breadth of an acre
of land from him. Then there departed from the host by the commandment of the king and marshals
five hundred spears and two thousand archers, to see if they might see any Frenchmen gathered
again together in any place. The same morning out of Abbeville and Saint-Riquiers in Ponthieu
the commons of Rouen and of Beauvais issued out of their towns, not knowing of the discomfiture
of the day before. They met with the Englishmen weening they had been Frenchmen, and when the
Englishmen saw them, they set on them freshly, and there was a sore battle; but at last the
Frenchmen fled and kept none array. There were slain in the ways and in hedges and bushes more
than seven thousand, and if the day had been clear there had never a one escaped. Anon after,
another company of Frenchmen were met by the Englishmen, the archbishop of Rouen and the great
prior of France, who also knew nothing of the discomfiture the day before, for they heard that
the French king should have fought the same Sunday, and they were going thitherward. When they
met with the Englishmen, there was a great battle, for they were a great number, but they could
not endure against the Englishmen; for they were nigh all slain, few escaped; the two lords
were slain. This morning the Englishmen met with divers Frenchmen that had lost their way on
the Saturday and had lain all night in the fields, and wist not where the king was nor the
captains. They were all slain, as many as were met with; and it was shewed me that of the commons
and men afoot of the cities and good towns of France there was slain four times as many as
were slain the Saturday in the great battle.

HOW THE NEXT DAY AFTER THE BATTLE OF CRESSY THEY THAT WERE DEAD WERE NUMBERED BY THE ENGLISHMEN

The same Sunday, as the king of England came from mass, such as had been sent forth returned
and shewed the king what they had seen and done, and said: 'Sir, we think surely there is now
no more appearance of any of our enemies.' Then the king sent to search how many were slain
and what they were. Sir Raynold Cobham and Sir Richard Stafford with three heralds went to
search the field and country: they visited all them that were slain and rode all day in the
fields, and returned again to the host as the king was going to supper. They made just report
of that they had seen, and said how there were eleven great princes dead, fourscore banners,
twelve hundred knights, and more than thirty thousand other.[1] The Englishmen kept still their
field all that night: on the Monday in the morning the king prepared to depart: the king caused
the dead bodies of the great lords to be taken up and conveyed to Montreuil, and there buried
in holy ground, and made a cry in the country to grant truce for three days, to the intent
that they of the country might search the field of Cressy to bury the dead bodies.

      [1] Another text makes the loss of persons below the rank of
      knight 15,000 or 16,000, including the men of the towns. Both
      estimates must be greatly exaggerated. Michael of Northburgh says
      that 1542 were killed in the battle and about 2000 on the next
      day. The great princes killed were the king of Bohemia, the duke
      of Lorraine, the earls of Alençon, Flanders, Blois, Auxerre,
      Harcourt, Saint-Pol, Aumale, the grand prior of France and the
      archbishop of Rouen.

Then the king went forth and came before the town of Montreuil-by-the-sea, and his marshals
ran toward Hesdin and Brent Waben and Serain, but they did nothing to the castle, it was so
strong and so well kept. They lodged that night on the river of Hesdin towards Blangy. The
next day they rode toward Boulogne and came to the town of Wissant: there the king and the
prince lodged, and tarried there a day to refresh his men, and on the Wednesday the king came
before the strong town of Calais.

THE BATTLE OF POITIERS

OF THE GREAT HOST THAT THE FRENCH KING BROUGHT TO THE BATTLE OF POITIERS

After the taking of the castle of Romorantin and of them that were therein, the prince then
and his company rode as they did before, destroying the country, approaching to Anjou and to
Touraine. The French king, who was at Chartres, departed and came to Blois and there tarried
two days, and then to Amboise and the next day to Loches: and then he heard how that the prince
was at Touraine[1] and how that he was returning by Poitou: ever the Englishmen were coasted
by certain expert knights of France, who alway made report to the king what the Englishmen
did. Then the king came to the Haye in Touraine and his men had passed the river of Loire,
some at the bridge of Orleans and some at Meung, at Saumur, at Blois, and at Tours and whereas
they might: they were in number a twenty thousand men of arms beside other; there were a twenty-six
dukes and earls and more than sixscore banners, and the four sons of the king, who were but
young, the duke Charles of Normandy, the lord Louis, that was from thenceforth duke of Anjou,
and the lord John duke of Berry, and the lord Philip, who was after duke of Burgoyne. The same
season, pope Innocent the sixth sent the lord Bertrand, cardinal of Perigord, and the lord
Nicholas, cardinal of Urgel, into France, to treat for a peace between the French king and
all his enemies, first between him and the king of Navarre, who was in prison: and these cardinals
oftentimes spake to the king for his deliverance during the siege at Bretuel, but they could
do nothing in that behalf. Then the cardinal of Perigord went to Tours, and there he heard
how the French king hasted sore to find the Englishmen: then he rode to Poitiers, for he heard
how both the hosts drew thitherward.

      [1] 'En Touraine.'

The French king heard how the prince hasted greatly to return, and the king feared that he
should scape him and so departed from Haye in Touraine, and all his company, and rode to Chauvigny,
where he tarried that Thursday in the town and without along by the river of Creuse, and the
next day the king passed the river at the bridge there, weening that the Englishmen had been
before him, but they were not. Howbeit they pursued after and passed the bridge that day more
than threescore thousand horses, and divers other passed at Chatelleraut, and ever as they
passed they took the way to Poitiers.

On the other side the prince wist not truly where the Frenchmen were; but they supposed that
they were not far off, for they could not find no more forage, whereby they had great fault
in their host of victual, and some of them repented that they had destroyed so much as they
had done before when they were in Berry, Anjou and Touraine, and in that they had made no better
provision. The same Friday three great lords of France, the lord of Craon, the lord Raoul of
Coucy and the earl of Joigny, tarried all day in the town of Chauvigny, and part of their companies.
The Saturday they passed the bridge and followed the king, who was then a three leagues before,
and took the way among bushes without a wood side to go to Poitiers.

The same Saturday the prince and his company dislodged from a little village thereby, and sent
before him certain currours to see if they might find any adventure and to hear where the Frenchmen
were. They were in number a threescore men of arms well horsed, and with them was the lord
Eustace d'Aubrecicourt and the lord John of Ghistelles, and by adventure the Englishmen and
Frenchmen met together by the foresaid wood side. The Frenchmen knew anon how they were their
enemies; then in haste they did on their helmets and displayed their banners and came a great
pace towards the Englishmen: they were in number a two hundred men of arms. When the Englishmen
saw them, and that they were so great a number, then they determined to fly and let the Frenchmen
chase them, for they knew well the prince with his host was not far behind. Then they turned
their horses and took the corner of the wood, and the Frenchmen after them crying their cries
and made great noise. And as they chased, they came on the prince's battle or they were ware
thereof themselves; the prince tarried there to have word again from them that he sent forth.
The lord Raoul de Coucy with his banner went so far forward that he was under the prince's
banner: there was a sore battle and the knight fought valiantly; howbeit he was there taken,
and the earl of Joigny, the viscount of Brosse, the lord of Chauvigny and all the other taken
or slain, but a few that scaped. And by the prisoners the prince knew how the French king followed
him in such wise that he could not eschew the battle:[2] then he assembled together all his
men and commanded that no man should go before the marshals' banners. Thus the prince rode
that Saturday from the morning till it was against night, so that he came within two little
leagues of Poitiers. Then the captal de Buch, sir Aymenion of Pommiers, the lord Bartholomew
of Burghersh and the lord Eustace d'Aubrecicourt, all these the prince sent forth to see if
they might know what the Frenchmen did. These knights departed with two hundred men of arms
well horsed; they rode so far that they saw the great battle of the king's, they saw all the
fields covered with men of arms. These Englishmen could not forbear, but set on the tail of
the French host and cast down many to the earth and took divers prisoners, so that the host
began to stir, and tidings thereof came to the French king as he was entering into the city
of Poitiers. Then he returned again and made all his host do the same, so that Saturday it
was very late or he was lodged in the field. The English currours returned again to the prince
and shewed him all that they saw and knew, and said how the French host was a great number
of people. 'Well,' said the prince, 'in the name of God let us now study how we shall fight
with them at our advantage.' That night the Englishmen lodged in a strong place among hedges,
vines and bushes, and their host well watched, and so was the French host.

      [2] Or rather, 'that the French king had gone in front of them
      (les avoit advancez) and that he could in no way depart without
      being fought with.'

OF THE ORDER OF THE FRENCHMEN BEFORE THE BATTLE OF POITIERS

On the Sunday in the morning the French king, who had great desire to fight with the Englishmen,
heard his mass in his pavilion and was houselled, and his four sons with him. After mass there
came to him the duke of Orleans, the duke of Bourbon, the earl of Ponthieu, the lord Jaques
of Bourbon,[1] the duke of Athens, constable of France, the earl of Tancarville, the earl of
Sarrebruck, the earl of Dammartin, the earl of Ventadour, and divers other great barons of
France and of other neighbours holding of France, as the lord Clermont, the lord Arnold d'Audrehem,
marshal of France, the lord of Saint-Venant, the lord John of Landas, the lord Eustace Ribemont,
the lord Fiennes, the lord Geoffrey of Charny, the lord Chatillon, the lord of Sully, the lord
of Nesle, sir Robert Duras and divers other; all these with the king went to counsel. Then
finally it was ordained that all manner of men should draw into the field, and every lord to
display his banner and to set forth in the name of God and Saint Denis: then trumpets blew
up through the host and every man mounted on horseback and went into the field, where they
saw the king's banner wave with the wind. There might a been seen great nobless of fair harness
and rich armoury of banners and pennons; for there was all the flower of France, there was
none durst abide at home without he would be shamed for ever. Then it was ordained by the advice
of the constable and marshals to be made three battles, and in each ward sixteen thousand men
of arms all mustered and passed for men of arms. The first battle the duke of Orleans to govern,
with thirty-six banners and twice as many pennons, the second the duke of Normandy and his
two brethren the lord Louis and the lord John, the third the king himself: and while that these
battles were setting in array, the king called to him the lord Eustace Ribemont, the lord John
of Landas and the lord Richard of Beaujeu, and said to them; 'Sirs, ride on before to see the
dealing of the Englishmen and advise well what number they be and by what means we may fight
with them, other afoot or a-horseback.' These three knights rode forth and the king was on
a white courser and said a-high to his men: 'Sirs, among you, when ye be at Paris, at Chartres,
at Rouen or at Orleans, then ye do threat the Englishmen and desire to be in arms out against
them. Now ye be come thereto: I shall now shew you them: now shew forth your evil will that
ye bear them and revenge your displeasures and damages that they have done you, for without
doubt we shall fight with them.' Such as heard him said: 'Sir, in God's name so be it; that
would we see[2] gladly.'

      [1] That is, Jaques de Bourbon, earl of la Marche and Ponthieu.

      [2] 'Verrons': but a better reading is 'ferons,' 'that will we
      do gladly.'

Therewith the three knights returned again to the king, who demanded of them tidings. Then
sir Eustace of Ribemont answered for all and said: 'Sir, we have seen the Englishmen: by estimation
they be two thousand men of arms and four thousand archers and a fifteen hundred of other.
Howbeit they be in a strong place, and as far as we can imagine they are in one battle; howbeit
they be wisely ordered, and along the way they have fortified strongly the hedges and bushes:
one part of their archers are along by the hedge, so that none can go nor ride that way, but
must pass by them, and that way must ye go an ye purpose to fight with them. In this hedge
there is but one entry and one issue by likelihood that four horsemen may ride afront. At the
end of this hedge, whereas no man can go nor ride, there be men of arms afoot and archers afore
them in manner of a herse, so that they will not be lightly discomfited,'[3] 'Well,' said the
king, 'what will ye then counsel us to do?' Sir Eustace said: 'Sir, let us all be afoot, except
three hundred men of arms, well horsed, of the best in your host and most hardiest, to the
intent they somewhat to break and to open the archers, and then your battles to follow on quickly
afoot and so to fight with their men of arms hand to hand. This is the best advice that I can
give you: if any other think any other way better, let him speak.'

      [3] The translation of this passage is unsatisfactory. It should
      be: 'Howbeit they have ordered it wisely, and have taken post
      along the road, which is fortified strongly with hedges and
      thickets, and they have beset this hedge on one side (or
      according to another text, on one side and on the other) with
      their archers, so that one cannot enter nor ride along their road
      except by them, and that way must he go who purposes to fight
      with them. In this hedge there is but one entry and one issue,
      where by likelihood four men of arms, as on the road, might ride
      a-front. At the end of this hedge among vines and thorn-bushes,
      where no man can go nor ride, are their men of arms all afoot,
      and they have set in front of them their archers in manner of a
      harrow, whom it would not be easy to discomfit.

The king said: 'Thus shall it be done': then the two marshals rode from battle to battle and
chose out a three hundred knights and squires of the most expert men of arms of all the host,
every man well armed and horsed. Also it was ordained that the battles of Almains should abide
still on horseback to comfort the marshals, if need were, whereof the earl of Sarrebruck, the
earl of Nidau and the earl of Nassau were captains. King John of France was there armed, and
twenty other in his apparel; and he did put the guiding of his eldest son to the lord of Saint-Venant,
the lord of Landas and the lord Thibault of Vaudenay; and the lord Arnold of Cervolles, called
the archpriest,[4] was armed in the armour of the young earl of Alençon.

      [4] Arnaud de Cervolles, one of the most celebrated adventurers
      of the 14th century, called the archpriest because though a
      layman he possessed the ecclesiastical fief of Vélines.

HOW THE CARDINAL OF PERIGORD TREATED TO MAKE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE FRENCH KING AND THE PRINCE
BEFORE THE BATTLE OF POITIERS

When the French king's battles was ordered and every lord under his banner among their own
men, then it was commanded that every man should cut their spears to a five foot long and every
man to put off their spurs. Thus as they were ready to approach, the cardinal of Perigord[1]
came in great haste to the king. He came the same morning from Poitiers; he kneeled down to
the king and held up his hands and desired him for God's sake a little to abstain setting forward
till he had spoken with him: then he said: 'Sir, ye have here all the flower of your realm
against a handful of Englishmen as to regard your company,[2] and, sir, if ye may have them
accorded to you without battle, it shall be more profitable and honourable to have them by
that manner rather than to adventure so noble chivalry as ye have here present. Sir, I require
you in the name of God and humility that I may ride to the prince and shew him what danger
ye have him in,' The king said: 'It pleaseth me well, but return again shortly.' The cardinal
departed and diligently he rode to the prince, who was among his men afoot: then the cardinal
alighted and came to the prince, who received him courteously. Then the cardinal after his
salutation made he said: 'Certainly, fair son, if you and your council advise justly the puissance
of the French king, ye will suffer me to treat to make a peace between you, an I may,' The
prince, who was young and lusty, said: 'Sir, the honour of me and of my people saved, I would
gladly fall to any reasonable way.' Then the cardinal said: 'Sir, ye say well, and I shall
accord you, an I can; for it should be great pity if so many noblemen and other as be here
on both parties should come together by battle,' Then the cardinal rode again to the king and
said: 'Sir, ye need not to make any great haste to fight with your enemies, for they cannot
fly from you though they would, they be in such a ground: wherefore, sir, I require you forbear
for this day till tomorrow the sun-rising.' The king was loath to agree thereto, for some of
his council would not consent to it; but finally the cardinal shewed such reasons, that the
king accorded that respite: and in the same place there was pight up a pavilion of red silk
fresh and rich, and gave leave for that day every man to draw to their lodgings except the
constable's and marshals' battles.

      [1] Talleyrand de Périgord.

      [2] The meaning is, 'Ye have here all the flower of your realm
      against a handful of people, for so the Englishmen are as
      compared with your company.'

That Sunday all the day the cardinal travailed in riding from the one host to the other gladly
to agree them: but the French king would not agree without he might have four of the principallest
of the Englishmen at his pleasure, and the prince and all the other to yield themselves simply:
howbeit there were many great offers made. The prince offered to render into the king's hands
all that ever he had won in that voyage, towns and castles, and to quit all prisoners that
he or any of his men had taken in that season, and also to swear not to be armed against the
French king in seven year after; but the king and his council would none thereof: the uttermost
that he would do was, that the prince and a hundred of his knights should yield themselves
into the king's prison; otherwise he would not: the which the prince would in no wise agree unto.

In the mean season that the cardinal rode thus between the hosts in trust to do some good,
certain knights of France and of England both rode forth the same Sunday, because it was truce
for that day, to coast the hosts and to behold the dealing of their enemies. So it fortuned
that the lord John Chandos rode the same day coasting the French host, and in like manner the
lord of Clermont, one of the French marshals, had ridden forth and aviewed the state of the
English host; and as these two knights returned towards their hosts, they met together: each
of them bare one manner of device, a blue lady embroidered in a sunbeam above on their apparel.
Then the lord Clermont said: 'Chandos, how long have ye taken on you to bear my device?' 'Nay,
ye bear mine,' said Chandos, 'for it is as well mine as yours.' 'I deny that,' said Clermont,
'but an it were not for the truce this day between us, I should make it good on you incontinent
that ye have no right to bear my device.' 'Ah, sir,' said Chandos, 'ye shall find me to-morrow
ready to defend you and to prove by feat of arms that it is as well mine as yours,' Then Clermont
said: 'Chandos, these be well the words of you Englishmen, for ye can devise nothing of new,
but all that ye see is good and fair.' So they departed without any more doing, and each of
them returned to their host.

The cardinal of Perigord could in no wise that Sunday make any agreement between the parties,
and when it was near night he returned to Poitiers. That night the Frenchmen took their ease;
they had provision enough, and the Englishmen had great default; they could get no forage,
nor they could not depart thence without danger of their enemies. That Sunday the Englishmen
made great dikes and hedges about their archers, to be the more stronger; and on the Monday
in the morning the prince and his company were ready apparelled as they were before, and about
the sun-rising in like manner were the Frenchmen. The same morning betimes the cardinal came
again to the French host and thought by his preaching to pacify the parties; but then the Frenchmen
said to him: 'Return whither ye will: bring hither no more words of treaty nor peace: and ye
love yourself depart shortly.' When the cardinal saw that he travailed in vain, he took leave
of the king and then he went to the prince and said: 'Sir, do what ye can; there is no remedy
but to abide the battle, for I can find none accord in the French king.' Then the prince said:
'The same is our intent and all our people: God help the right!' So the cardinal returned to
Poitiers. In his company there were certain knights and squires, men of arms, who were more
favourable to the French king than to the prince; and when they saw that the parties should
fight, they stale from their masters and went to the French host; and they made their captain
the chatelain of Amposte,[3] who was as then there with the cardinal, who knew nothing thereof
till he was come to Poitiers.

      [3] Amposta, a fortress in Catalonia.

The certainty of the order of the Englishmen was shewed to the French king, except they had
ordained three hundred men a-horseback and as many archers a-horseback to coast under covert
of the mountain and to strike into the battle of the duke of Normandy, who was under the mountain
afoot. This ordinance they had made of new, that the Frenchmen knew not of. The prince was
with his battle down among the vines and had closed in the weakest part with their carnages.

Now will I name some of the principal lords and knights that were there with the prince: the
earl of Warwick, the earl of Suffolk, the earl of Salisbury, the earl of Oxford, the lord Raynold
Cobham, the lord Spencer, the lord James Audley, the lord Peter his brother, the lord Berkeley,
the lord Bassett, the lord Warin, the lord Delaware, the lord Manne, the lord Willoughby, the
lord Bartholomew de Burghersh, the lord of Felton, the lord Richard of Pembroke, the lord Stephen
of Cosington, the lord Bradetane and other Englishmen; and of Gascon there was the lord of
Pommiers, the lord of Languiran, the captal of Buch, the lord John of Caumont, the lord de
Lesparre, the lord of Rauzan, the lord of Condon, the lord of Montferrand, the lord of Landiras,
the lord soudic of Latrau and other that I cannot name; and of Hainowes the lord Eustace d'Aubrecicourt,
the lord John of Ghistelles, and two other strangers, the lord Daniel Pasele and the lord Denis
of Morbeke: all the prince's company passed not an eight thousand men one and other, and the
Frenchmen were a sixty thousand fighting men, whereof there were more than three thousand knights.

OF THE BATTLE OF POITIERS BETWEEN THE PRINCE OF WALES AND THE FRENCH KING

When the prince saw that he should have battle and that the cardinal was gone without any peace
or truce making, and saw that the French king did set but little store by him, he said then
to his men: 'Now, sirs, though we be but a small company as in regard to the puissance of our
enemies, let us not be abashed therefor; for the victory lieth not in the multitude of people,
but whereas God will send it. If it fortune that the journey be ours, we shall be the most
honoured people of all the world; and if we die in our right quarrel, I have the king my father
and brethren, and also ye have good friends and kinsmen; these shall revenge us. Therefore,
sirs, for God's sake I require you do your devoirs this day; for if God be pleased and Saint
George, this day ye shall see me a good knight.' These words and such other that the prince
spake comforted all his people. The lord sir John Chandos that day never went from the prince,
nor also the lord James Audley of a great season; but when he saw that they should needs fight,
he said to the prince: 'Sir, I have served always truly my lord your father and you also, and
shall do as long as I live. I say this because I made once a vow that the first battle that
other the king your father or any of his children should be at, how that I would be one of
the first setters on,[1] or else to die in the pain: therefore I require your grace, as in
reward for any service that ever I did to the king your father or to you, that you will give
me licence to depart from you and to set myself thereas I may accomplish my vow.' The prince
accorded to his desire and said, 'Sir James, God give you this day that grace to be the best
knight of all other,' and so took him by the hand. Then the knight departed from the prince
and went to the foremost front of all the battles, all only accompanied with four squires,
who promised not to fail him. This lord James was a right sage and a valiant knight, and by
him was much of the host ordained and governed the day before. Thus sir James was in front
of the battle ready to fight with the battle of the marshals of France. In like wise the lord
Eustace d'Aubrecicourt did his pain to be one of the foremost to set on. When sir James Audley
began to set forward to his enemies, it fortuned to sir Eustace d'Aubrecicourt as ye shall
hear after. Ye have heard before how the Almains in the French host were appointed to be still
a-horseback. Sir Eustace being a-horseback laid his spear in the rest and ran into the French
battle, and then a knight of Almaine, called the lord Louis of Recombes, who bare a shield
silver, five roses gules, and sir Eustace bare ermines, two branches of gules[2],--when this
Almain saw the lord Eustace come from his company, he rode against him and they met so rudely,
that both knights fell to the earth. The Almain was hurt in the shoulder, therefore he rose
not so quickly as did sir Eustace, who when he was up and had taken his breath, he came to
the other knight as he lay on the ground; but then five other knights of Almaine came on him
all at once and bare him to the earth, and so perforce there he was taken prisoner and brought
to the earl of Nassau, who as then took no heed of him; and I cannot say whether they sware
him prisoner or no, but they tied him to a chare and there let him stand[3].

      [1] The first setter-on and the best combatant.

      [2] That is, two hamedes gules on a field ermine.

      [3] They tied him on to a cart with their harness.

Then the battle began on all parts, and the battles of the marshals of France approached, and
they set forth that were appointed to break the array of the archers. They entered a-horseback
into the way where the great hedges were on both sides set full of archers. As soon as the
men of arms entered, the archers began to shoot on both sides and did slay and hurt horses
and knights, so that the horses when they felt the sharp arrows they would in no wise go forward,
but drew aback and flang and took on so fiercely, that many of them fell on their masters,
so that for press they could not rise again; insomuch that the marshals' battle could never
come at the prince. Certain knights and squires that were well horsed passed through the archers
and thought to approach to the prince, but they could not. The lord James Audley with his four
squires was in the front of that battle and there did marvels in arms, and by great prowess
he came and fought with sir Arnold d'Audrehem under his own banner, and there they fought long
together and sir Arnold was there sore handled. The battle of the marshals began to disorder
by reason of the shot of the archers with the aid of the men of arms, who came in among them
and slew of them and did what they list, and there was the lord Arnold d'Audrehem taken prisoner
by other men than by sir James Audley or by his four squires; for that day he never took prisoner,
but always fought and went on his enemies.

Also on the French party the lord John Clermont fought under his own banner as long as he could
endure: but there he was beaten down and could not be relieved nor ransomed, but was slain
without mercy: some said it was because of the words that he had the day before to sir John
Chandos. So within a short space the marshals' battles were discomfited, for they fell one
upon another and could not go forth;[4] and the Frenchmen that were behind and could not get
forward reculed back and came on the battle of the duke of Normandy, the which was great and
thick and were afoot, but anon they began to open behind;[5] for when they knew that the marshals'
battle was discomfited, they took their horses and departed, he that might best. Also they
saw a rout of Englishmen coming down a little mountain a-horseback, and many archers with them,
who brake in on the side of the duke's battle. True to say, the archers did their company that
day great advantage; for they shot so thick that the Frenchmen wist not on what side to take
heed, and little and little the Englishmen won ground on them.

      [4] 'Ne posient aler avant.'

      [5] 'Which was great and thick in front (pardevant), but anon
      it became open and thin behind.'

And when the men of arms of England saw that the marshals' battle was discomfited and that
the duke's battle began to disorder and open, they leapt then on their horses, the which they
had ready by them: then they assembled together and cried, 'Saint George! Guyenne!' and the
lord Chandos said to the prince: 'Sir, take your horse and ride forth; this journey is yours:
God is this day in your hands: get us to the French king's battle, for their lieth all the
sore of the matter. I think verily by his valiantness he will not fly: I trust we shall have
him by the grace of God and Saint George, so he be well fought withal: and, sir, I heard you
say that this day I should see you a good knight.' The prince said, 'Let us go forth; ye shall
not see me this day return back,' and said, 'Advance, banner, in the name of God and of Saint
George,' The knight that bare it did his commandment: there was then a sore battle and a perilous,
and many a man overthrown, and he that was once down could not be relieved again without great
succour and aid. As the prince rode and entered in among his enemies, he saw on his right hand
in a little bush lying dead the lord Robert of Duras and his banner by him,[6] and a ten or
twelve of his men about him. Then the prince said to two of his squires and to three archers:
'Sirs, take the body of this knight on a targe and bear him to Poitiers, and present him from
me to the cardinal of Perigord, and say how I salute him by that token.' And this was done.
The prince was informed that the cardinal's men were on the field against him, the which was
not pertaining to the right order of arms, for men of the church that cometh and goeth for
treaty of peace ought not by reason to bear harness nor to fight for neither of the parties;
they ought to be indifferent: and because these men had done so, the prince was displeased
with the cardinal, and therefore he sent unto him his nephew the lord Robert of Duras dead:
and the chatelain of Amposte was taken, and the prince would have had his head stricken off,
because he was pertaining to the cardinal, but then the lord Chandos said: 'Sir, suffer for
a season: intend to a greater matter: and peradventure the cardinal will make such excuse that
ye shall be content.'

      [6] The original adds, 'qui estoit de France au sentoir (sautoir)
      de gueulles.'

Then the prince and his company dressed them on the battle of the duke of Athens, constable
of France. There was many a man slain and cast to the earth. As the Frenchmen fought in companies,
they cried, 'Mountjoy! Saint Denis!' and the Englishmen, 'Saint George! Guyenne!' Anon the
prince with his company met with the battle of Almains, whereof the earl of Sarrebruck, the
earl Nassau and the earl Nidau were captains, but in a short space they were put to flight:
the archers shot so wholly together that none durst come in their dangers: they slew many a
man that could not come to no ransom: these three earls was there slain, and divers other knights
and squires of their company, and there was the lord d'Aubrecieourt rescued, by his own men
and set on horseback, and after he did that day many feats of arms and took good prisoners.
When the duke of Normandy's battle saw the prince approach, they thought to save themselves,
and so the duke and the king's children, the earl of Poitiers and the earl of Touraine, who
were right young, believed their governours and so departed from the field, and with them more
than eight hundred spears, that strake no stroke that day. Howbeit the lord Guichard d'Angle
and the lord John of Saintré, who were with the earl of Poitiers, would not fly, but entered
into the thickest press of the battle. The king's three sons took the way to Chauvigny, and
the lord John of Landas and the lord Thibauld of Vaudenay, who were set to await on the duke
of Normandy, when they had brought the duke a long league from the battle, then they took leave
of the duke and desired the lord of Saint-Venant that he should not leave the duke, but to
bring him in safeguard, whereby he should win more thank of the king than to abide still in
the field. Then they met also the duke of Orleans and a great company with him, who were also
departed from the field with clear hands: there were many good knights and squires, though
that their masters departed from the field, yet they had rather a died than to have had any
reproach.

Then the king's battle came on the Englishmen: there was a sore fight and many a great stroke
given and received. The king and his youngest son met with the battle of the English marshals,
the earl of Warwick and the earl of Suffolk, and with them of Gascons the captal of Buch, the
lord of Pommiers, the lord Amery of Tastes, the lord of Mussidan, the lord of Languiran and
the lord de Latrau. To the French party there came time enough the lord John of Landas and
the lord of Vaudenay; they alighted afoot and went into the king's battle, and a little beside
fought the duke of Athens, constable of France, and a little above him the duke of Bourbon
and many good knights of Bourbonnais and of Picardy with him, and a little on the one side
there were the Poitevins, the lord de Pons, the lord of Partenay, the lord of Dammartin, the
lord of Tannay-Bouton, the lord of Surgieres, the lord John Saintré, the lord Guichard d'Angle,
the lord Argenton, the lord of Linieres, the lord of Montendre and divers other, also the viscount
of Rochechouart and the earl of Aunay;[7] and of Burgoyne the lord James of Beaujeu, the lord
de Chateau-Vilain and other: in another part there was the earl of Ventadour and of Montpensier,
the lord James of Bourbon, the lord John d'Artois and also the lord James his brother, the
lord Arnold of Cervolles, called the archpriest, armed for the young earl of Alençon; and of
Auvergne there was the lord of Mercoeur, the lord de la Tour, the lord of Chalençon, the lord
of Montaigu, the lord of Rochfort, the lord d'Acier, the lord d'Acon; and of Limousin there
was the lord de Melval, the lord of Mareuil, the lord of Pierrebuffiere; and of Picardy there
was the lord William of Nesle, the lord Arnold of Rayneval, the lord Geoffrey of Saint-Dizier,
the lord of Chauny, the lord of Helly, the lord of Montsault, the lord of Hangest and divers
other: and also in the king's battle there was the earl Douglas of Scotland, who fought a season
right valiantly, but when he saw the discomfiture, he departed and saved himself; for in no
wise he would be taken of the Englishmen, he had rather been there slain. On the English part
the lord James Audley with the aid of his four squires fought always in the chief of the battle:
he was sore hurt in the body and in the visage: as long as his breath served him he fought;
at last at the end of the battle his four squires took and brought him out of the field and
laid him under a hedge side for to refresh him; and they unarmed him and bound up his wounds
as well as they could. On the French party king John was that day a full right good knight:
if the fourth part of his men had done their devoirs as well as he did, the journey had been
his by all likelihood. Howbeit they were all slain and taken that were there, except a few
that saved themselves, that were with the king.[8] There was slain the duke Peter of Bourbon,
the lord Guichard of Beaujeu, the lord of Landas, and the duke of Athens, constable of France,
the bishop of Chalons in Champagne, the lord William of Nesle, the lord Eustace of Ribemont,
the lord de la Tour, the lord William of Montaigu, sir Grismouton of Chambly, sir Baudrin de
la Heuse, and many other, as they fought by companies; and there were taken prisoners the lord
of Vaudenay, the lord of Pompadour, and the archpriest, sore hurt, the earl of Vaudimont, the
earl of Mons, the earl of Joinville, the earl of Vendome, sir Louis of Melval, the lord Pierrebuffiere
and the lord of Serignac: there were at that brunt, slain and taken more than two hundred knights.[9]

      [7] Le conte d'Aulnoy,' but it should be 'visconte.'

      [8] 'Howbeit they that stayed acquitted them as well as they
      might, so that they were all slain or taken. Few escaped of those
      that set themselves with the king': or according to the fuller
      text: 'Few escaped of those that alighted down on the sand by the
      side of the king their lord.'

      [9] The translator has chosen to rearrange the above list of
      killed, wounded or taken, which the French text gives in order
      as they fought, saying that in one part there fell the duke of
      Bourbon, sir Guichard of Beaujeu and sir John on Landas, and
      there were severely wounded or taken the arch-priest, sir Thibaud
      of Vodenay and sir Baudouin, d'Annequin; in another there were
      slain the duke of Athens and the bishop of Chalons, and taken the
      earl of Vaudemont and Joinville and the earl of Vendome: a little
      above this there were slain sir William de Nesle, sir Eustace de
      Ribemont and others, and taken sir Louis de Melval, the lord of
      Pierrebuffière and the lord of Seregnach.

OF TWO FRENCHMEN THAT FLED FROM THE BATTLE OF POITIERS AND TWO ENGLISHMEN THAT FOLLOWED THEM

Among the battles, recounterings, chases and pursuits that were made that day in the field,
it fortuned so to sir Oudart of Renty that when he departed from the field because he saw the
field was lost without recovery, he thought not to abide the danger of the Englishmen; wherefore
he fled all alone and was gone out of the field a league, and an English knight pursued him
and ever cried to him and said, 'Return again, sir knight, it is a shame to fly away thus.'
Then the knight turned, and the English knight thought to have stricken him with his spear
in the targe, but he failed, for sir Oudart swerved aside from the stroke, but he failed not
the English knight, for he strake him such a stroke on the helm with his sword, that he was
astonied and fell from his horse to the earth and lay still. Then sir Oudart alighted and came
to him or he could rise, and said, 'Yield you, rescue or no rescue, or else I shall slay you.'
The Englishman yielded and went with him, and afterward was ransomed. Also it fortuned that
another squire of Picardy called John de Hellenes was fled from the battle and met with his
page, who delivered him a new fresh horse, whereon he rode away alone. The same season there
was in the field the lord Berkeley of England, a young lusty knight, who the same day reared
his banner, and he all alone pursued the said John of Hellenes. And when he had followed the
space of a league, the said John turned again and laid his sword in the rest instead of a spear,
and so came running toward the lord Berkeley, who lift up his sword to have stricken the squire;
but when he saw the stroke come, he turned from it, so that the Englishman lost his stroke
and John strake him as he passed on the arm, that the lord Berkeley's sword fell into the field.
When he saw his sword down, he lighted suddenly off his horse and came to the place where his
sword lay, and as he stooped down to take up his sword, the French squire did pike his sword
at him, and by hap strake him through both the thighs, so that the knight fell to the earth
and could not help himself. And John alighted off his horse and took the knight's sword that
lay on the ground, and came to him and demanded if he would yield him or not. The knight then
demanded his name. 'Sir,' said he, 'I hight John of Hellenes; but what is your name?' 'Certainly,'
said the knight, 'my name is Thomas and am lord of Berkeley, a fair castle on the river of
Severn in the marches of Wales.' 'Well, sir,' quoth the squire, 'then ye shall be my prisoner,
and I shall bring you in safe-guard and I shall see that you shall be healed of your hurt.'
'Well,' said the knight, 'I am content to be your prisoner, for ye have by law of arms won
me.' There he sware to be his prisoner, rescue or no rescue. Then the squire drew forth the
sword out of the knight's thighs and the wound was open: then he wrapped and bound the wound
and set him on his horse and so brought him fair and easily to Chatelleraut, and there tarried
more than fifteen days for his sake and did get him remedy for his hurt: and when he was somewhat
amended, then he gat him a litter and so brought him at his ease to his house in Picardy. There
he was more than a year till he was perfectly whole; and when he departed he paid for his ransom
six thousand nobles, and so this squire was made a knight by reason of the profit that he had
of the lord Berkeley.

HOW KING JOHN WAS TAKEN PRISONER AT THE BATTLE OF POITIERS

Oftentimes the adventures of amours and of war are more fortunate and marvellous than any man
can think or wish. Truly this battle, the which was near to Poitiers in the fields of Beauvoir
and Maupertuis, was right great and perilous, and many deeds of arms there was done the which
all came not to knowledge. The fighters on both sides endured much pain: king John with his
own hands did that day marvels in arms: he had an axe in his hands wherewith he defended himself
and fought in the breaking of the press. Near to the king there was taken the earl of Tancarville,
sir Jaques of Bourbon earl of Ponthieu, and the lord John of Artois earl of Eu, and a little
above that under the banner of the capital of Buch was taken sir Charles of Artois and divers
other knights and squires. The chase endured to the gates of Poitiers: there were many slain
and beaten down, horse and man, for they of Poitiers closed their gates and would suffer none
to enter; wherefore in the street before the gate was horrible murder, men hurt and beaten
down. The Frenchmen yielded themselves as far off as they might know an Englishman: there were
divers English archers that had four, five or six prisoners: the lord of Pons, a great baron
of Poitou, was there slain, and many other knights and squires; and there was taken the earl
of Rochechouart, the lord of Dammartin, the lord of Partenay, and of Saintonge the lord of
Montendre and the lord John of Saintré, but he was so sore hurt that he had never health after:
he was reputed for one of the best knights in France. And there was left for dead among other
dead men the lord Guichard d'Angle, who fought that day by the king right valiantly, and so
did the lord of Charny, on whom was great press, because he bare the sovereign banner of the
king's: his own banner was also in the field, the which was of gules, three scutcheons silver.
So many Englishmen and Gascons come to that part, that perforce they opened the king's battle,
so that the Frenchmen were so mingled among their enemies that sometime there was five men
upon one gentleman. There was taken the lord of Pompadour and[1] the lord Bartholomew de Burghersh,
and there was slain sir Geoffrey of Charny with the king's banner in his hands: also the lord
Raynold Cobham slew the earl of Dammartin. Then there was a great press to take the king, and
such as knew him cried, 'Sir, yield you, or else ye are but dead.' There was a knight of Saint-Omer's,
retained in wages with the king of England, called sir Denis Morbeke, who had served the Englishmen
five year before, because in his youth he had forfeited the realm of France for a murder that
he did at Saint-Omer's. It happened so well for him, that he was next to the king when they
were about to take him: he stept forth into the press, and by strength of his body and arms
he came to the French king and said in good French, 'Sir, yield you,' The king beheld the knight
and said: 'To whom shall I yield me? Where is my cousin the prince of Wales? If I might see
him, I would speak with him.' Denis answered and said: 'Sir, he is not here; but yield you
to me and I shall bring you to him. 'Who be you?' quoth the king. 'Sir,' quoth he, 'I am Denis
of Morbeke, a knight of Artois; but I serve the king of England because I am banished the realm
of France and I have forfeited all that I had there,' Then the king gave him his right gauntlet,
saying, 'I yield me to you,' There was a great press about the king, for every man enforced
him to say,[2] 'I have taken him,' so that the king could not go forward with his young son
the lord Philip with him because of the press.

      [1] This 'and' should be 'by,' but the French text is responsible
      for the mistake.

      [2] 'S'efforçoit de dire.'

The prince of Wales, who was courageous and cruel as a lion, took that day great pleasure to
fight and to chase his enemies. The lord John Chandos, who was with him, of all that day never
left him nor never took heed of taking of any prisoner: then at the end of the battle he said
to the prince: 'Sir, it were good that you rested here and set your banner a-high in this bush,
that your people may draw hither, for they be sore spread abroad, nor I can see no more banners
nor pennons of the French party; wherefore, sir, rest and refresh you, for ye be sore chafed.'
Then the prince's banner was set up a-high on a bush, and trumpets and clarions began to sown.
Then the prince did off his bassenet, and the knights for his body and they of his chamber
were ready about him, and a red pavilion pight up, and then drink was brought forth to the
prince and for such lords as were about him, the which still increased as they came from the
chase: there they tarried and their prisoners with them. And when the two marshals were come
to the prince, he demanded of them if they knew any tiding of the French king. They answered
and said: 'Sir, we hear none of certainty, but we think verily he is other dead or taken, for
he is not gone out of the battles.' Then the prince said to the earl of Warwick and to sir
Raynold Cobham: 'Sirs, I require you go forth and see what ye can know, that at your return
ye may shew me the truth.' These two lords took their horses and departed from the prince and
rode up a little hill to look about them: then they perceived a flock of men of arms coming
together right wearily:[3] there was the French king afoot in great peril, for Englishmen and
Gascons were his masters; they had taken him from sir Denis Morbeke perforce, and such as were
most of force said, 'I have taken him,' 'Nay,' quoth another, 'I have taken him': so they strave
which should have him. Then the French king, to eschew that peril, said: 'Sirs, strive not:
lead me courteously, and my son, to my cousin the prince, and strive not for my taking, for
I am so great a lord to make you all rich.' The king's words somewhat appeased them; howbeit
ever as they went they made riot and brawled for the taking of the king. When the two foresaid
lords saw and heard that noise and strife among them, they came to them and said: 'Sirs, what
is the matter that ye strive for?' 'Sirs,' said one of them, 'it is for the French king, who
is here taken prisoner, and there be more than ten knights and squires that challenged the
taking of him and of his son.' Then the two lords entered into the press and caused every man
to draw aback, and commanded them in the prince's name on pain of their heads to make no more
noise nor to approach the king no nearer, without they were commanded. Then every man gave
room to the lords, and they alighted and did their reverence to the king, and so brought him
and his son in peace and rest to the prince of Wales.

      [3] 'Lentement.'

OF THE GIFT THAT THE PRINCE GAVE TO THE LORD AUDLEY AFTER THE BATTLE OF POITIERS

As soon as the earl of Warwick and the lord Cobham were departed from the prince, as ye have
heard before, then the prince demanded of the knights that were about him for the lord Audley,
if any knew anything of him. Some knights that were there answered and said: 'Sir, he is sore
hurt and lieth in a litter here beside.' 'By my faith,' said the prince, 'of his hurts I am
right sorry: go and know if he may be brought hither, or else I will go and see him thereas
he is.' Then two knights came to the lord Audley and said: 'Sir, the prince desireth greatly
to see you, other ye must go to him or else he will come to you.' 'Ah, sir,' said the knight,
'I thank the prince when he thinketh on so poor a knight as I am.' Then he called eight of
his servants and caused them to bear him in his litter to the place whereas the prince was.
Then the prince took him in his arms and kissed him and made him great cheer and said: 'Sir
James, I ought greatly to honour you, for by your valiance ye have this day achieved the grace
and renown of us all, and ye are reputed for the most valiant of all other,' 'Ah, sir,' said
the knight, 'ye say as it pleaseth you: I would it were so: and if I have this day anything
advanced myself to serve you and to accomplish the vow that I made, it ought not to be reputed
to me any prowess.' 'Sir James,' said the prince, 'I and all ours take you in this journey
for the best doer in arms, and to the intent to furnish you the better to pursue the wars,
I retain you for ever to be my knight with five hundred marks of yearly revenues, the which
I shall assign you on mine heritage in England.' 'Sir,' said the knight, 'God grant me to deserve
the great goodness that ye shew me': and so he took his leave of the prince, for he was right
feeble, and so his servants brought him to his lodging. And as soon as he was gone, the earl
of Warwick and the lord Cobham returned to the prince and presented to him the French king.
The prince made lowly reverence to the king and caused wine and spices to be brought forth,
and himself served the king in sign of great love.

HOW THE ENGLISHMEN WON GREATLY AT THE BATTLE OF POITIERS

Thus this battle was discomfited, as ye have heard, the which was in the fields of Maupertuis
a two leagues from Poitiers the twenty-second day of September the year of our Lord MCCCLVI.
It begun in the morning[1] and ended at noon, but as then all the Englishmen were not returned
from the chase; therefore the prince's banner stood on a bush to draw all his men together,
but it was well nigh night or all came from the chase. And as it was reported, there was slain
all the flower of France, and there was taken with the king and the lord Philip his son a seventeen
earls, beside barons, knights and squires, and slain a five or six thousand of one and other.
When every man was come from the chase, they had twice as many prisoners as they were in number
in all. Then it was counselled among them because of the great charge and doubt to keep so
many, that they should put many of them to ransom incontinent in the field, and so they did:
and the prisoners found the Englishmen and Gascons right courteous; there were many that day
put to ransom and let go all only on their promise of faith and truth to return again between
that and Christmas to Bordeaux with their ransoms. Then that night they lay in the field beside
whereas the battle had been: some unarmed them, but not all, and unarmed all their prisoners,
and every man made good cheer to his prisoner; for that day whosoever took any prisoner, he
was clear his and might quit or ransom him at his pleasure. All such as were there with the
prince were all made rich with honour and goods, as well by ransoming of prisoners as by winning
of gold, silver, plate, jewels, that was there found: there was no man that did set anything
by rich harness, whereof there was great plenty, for the Frenchmen came thither richly beseen,
weening to have had the journey for them.

      [1] 'Environ heure de prime.'

HOW THE LORD JAMES AUDLEY GAVE TO HIS FOUR SQUIRES THE FIVE HUNDRED MARKS OF REVENUES THAT
THE PRINCE HAD GIVEN HIM

When sir James Audley was brought to his lodging, then he sent for sir Peter Audley his brother
and for the lord Bartholomew of Burghersh, the lord Stephen of Cosington, the lord of Willoughby
and the lord Ralph Ferrers, all these were of his lineage, and then he called before him his
four squires, that had served him that day well and truly. Then he said to the said lords:
'Sirs, it hath pleased my lord the prince to give me five hundred marks of revenues by year
in heritage, for the which gift I have done him but small service with my body. Sirs, behold
here these four squires, who hath always served me truly and specially this day: that honour
that I have is by their valiantness. Wherefore I will reward them: I give and resign into their
hands the gift that my lord the prince hath given me of five hundred marks of yearly revenues,
to them and to their heirs for ever, in like manner as it was given me. I clearly disherit
me thereof and inherit them without any repeal[1] or condition. The lords and other that ere
there, every man beheld other and said among themselves: It cometh of a great nobleness to
give this gift.' They answered him with one voice: 'Sir, be it as God will; we shall bear witness
in this behalf wheresoever we be come.' Then they departed from him, and some of them went
to the prince, who the same night would make a supper to the French king and to the prisoners,
for they had enough to do withal, of that the Frenchmen brought with them,[2] for the Englishmen
wanted victual before, for some in three days had no bread before.

      [1] 'Rappel,' i.e. power of recalling the gift. The word
      'repeal' is a correction of 'rebel.'

      [2] 'Who was to give the king of France a supper of his own
      provisions; for the French had brought great abundance with
      them, and provisions had failed among the English,' etc.

HOW THE PRINCE MADE A SUPPER TO THE FRENCH KING THE SAME DAY OF THE BATTLE

The same day of the battle at night the prince made a supper in his lodging to the French king
and to the most part of the great lords that were prisoners. The prince made the king and his
son, the lord James of Bourbon, the lord John d'Artois, the earl of Tancarville, the earl of
Estampes, the earl Dammartin, the earl of Joinville and the lord of Partenay to sit all at
one board, and other lords, knights and squires at other tables; and always the prince served
before the king as humbly as he could, and would not sit at the king's board for any desire
that the king could make, but he said he was not sufficient to sit at the table with so great
a prince as the king was. But then he said to the king: 'Sir, for God's sake make none evil
nor heavy cheer, though God this day did not consent to follow your will; for, sir, surely
the king my father shall bear you as much honour and amity as he may do, and shall accord with
you so reasonably that ye shall ever be friends together after. And, sir, methinks ye ought
to rejoice, though the journey be not as ye would have had it, for this day ye have won the
high renown of prowess and have passed this day in valiantness all other of your party. Sir,
I say not this to mock you, for all that be on our party, that saw every man's deeds, are plainly
accorded by true sentence to give you the prize and chaplet.' Therewith the Frenchmen began
to murmur and said among themselves how the prince had spoken nobly, and that by all estimation
he should prove a noble man, if God send him life and to persevere in such good fortune.

HOW THE PRINCE RETURNED TO BORDEAUX AFTER THE BATTLE OF POITIERS

When supper was done, every man went to his lodging with their prisoners. The same night they
put many to ransom and believed them on their faiths and troths, and ransomed them but easily,
for they said they would set no knight's ransom so high, but that he might pay at his ease
and maintain still his degree. The next day, when they had heard mass and taken some repast
and that everything was trussed and ready, then they took their horses and rode towards Poitiers.
The same night there was come to Poitiers the lord of Roye with a hundred spears: he was not
at the battle, but he met the duke of Normandy near to Chauvigny, and the duke sent him to
Poitiers to keep the town till they heard other tidings. When the lord of Roye knew that the
Englishmen were so near coming to the city, he caused every man to be armed and every man to
go to his defence to the walls, towers and gates; and the Englishmen passed by without any
approaching, for they were so laded with gold, silver and prisoners, that in their returning
they assaulted no fortress; they thought it a great deed if they might bring the French king,
with their other prisoners and riches that they had won, in safeguard to Bordeaux. They rode
but small journeys because of their prisoners and great carriages that they had: they rode
in a day no more but four or five leagues and lodged ever betimes, and rode close together
in good array saving the marshals' battles, who rode ever before with five hundred men of arms
to open the passages as the prince should pass; but they found no encounters, for all the country
was so frayed that every man drew to the fortresses.

As the prince rode, it was shewed him how the lord Audley had given to his four squires the
gift of the five hundred marks that he had given unto him: then the prince sent for him and
he was brought in his litter to the prince, who received him courteously and said: 'Sir James,
we have knowledge that the revenues that we gave you, as soon as ye came to your lodging, you
gave the same to four squires: we would know why ye did so, and whether the gift was agreeable
to you or not.' 'Sir,' said the knight, 'it is of truth I have given it to them, and I shall
shew you why I did so. These four squires that be here present have a long season served me
well and truly in many great businesses and, sir, in this last battle they served me in such
wise that an they had never done nothing else I was bound to reward them, and before the same
day they had never nothing of me in reward. Sir, I am but a man alone: but by the aid and comfort
of them I took on me to accomplish my vow long before made. I had been dead in the battle an
they had not been: wherefore, sir, when I considered the love that they bare unto me, I had
not been courteous if I would not a rewarded them. I thank God I have had and shall have enough
as long as I live: I will never be abashed for lack of good. Sir, if I have done this without
your pleasure, I require you to pardon me, for, sir, both I and my squires shall serve you
as well as ever we did.' Then the prince said: 'Sir James, for anything that ye have done I
cannot blame you, but can you good thank therefor; and for the valiantness of these squires,
whom ye praise so much, I accord to them your gift, and I will render again to you six hundred
marks in like manner as ye had the other.'

Thus the prince and his company did so much that they passed through Poitou and Saintonge without
damage and came to Blaye, and there passed the river of Gironde and arrived in the good city
of Bordeaux. It cannot be recorded the great feast and cheer that they of the city with the
clergy made to the prince, and how honourably they were there received. The prince brought
the French king into the abbey of Saint Andrew's, and there they lodged both, the king in one
part and the prince in the other. The prince bought of the lords, knights and squires of Gascoyne
the most part of the earls of the realm of France, such as were prisoners, and paid ready money
for them. There was divers questions and challenges made between the knights and squires of
Gascoyne for taking of the French king; howbeit Denis Morbeke by right of arms and by true
tokens that he shewed challenged him for his prisoner. Another squire of Gascoyne called Bernard
of Truttes said how he had right to him: there was much ado and many words before the prince
and other lords that were there, and because these two challenged each other to fight in that
quarrel, the prince caused the matter to rest till they came in England and that no declaration
should be made but afore the king of England his father; but because the French king himself
aided to sustain the challenge of Denis Morbeke, for he inclined more to him than to any other,
the prince therefore privily caused to be delivered to the said sir Denis two thousand nobles
to maintain withal his estate.

Anon after the prince came to Bordeaux, the cardinal of Perigord came thither, who was sent
from the pope in legation, as it was said. He was there more than fifteen days or the prince
would speak with him because of the chatelain of Amposte and his men, who were against him
in the battle of Poitiers. The prince believed that the cardinal sent them thither, but the
cardinal did so much by the means of the lord of Caumont, the lord of Montferrand and the captal
of Buch, who were his cousins, they shewed so good reasons to the prince, that he was content
to hear him speak. And when he was before the prince, he excused himself so sagely that the
prince and his council held him excused, and so he fell again into the prince's love and redeemed
out his men by reasonable ransoms; and the chatelain was set to his ransom of ten thousand
franks, the which he paid after. Then the cardinal began to treat on the deliverance of the
French king, but I pass it briefly because nothing was done. Thus the prince, the Gascons and
Englishmen tarried still at Bordeaux till it was Lent in great mirth and revel, and spent foolishly
the gold and silver that they had won. In England also there was great joy when they heard
tidings of the battle of Poitiers, of the discomfiting of the Frenchmen and taking of the king:
great solemnities were made in all churches and great fires and wakes throughout all England.
The knights and squires, such as were come home from that journey, were much made of and praised
more than other.

WAT TYLER'S REBELLION

HOW THE COMMONS OF ENGLAND REBELLED AGAINST THE NOBLEMEN

In the mean season while this treaty was, there fell in England great mischief and rebellion
of moving of the common people, by which deed England was at a point to have been lost without
recovery. There was never realm nor country in so great adventure as it was in that time, and
all because of the ease and riches that the common people were of, which moved them to this
rebellion, as sometime they did in France, the which did much hurt, for by such incidents the
realm of France hath been greatly grieved.

It was a marvellous thing and of poor foundation that this mischief began in England, and to
give ensample to all manner of people I will speak hereof as it was done, as I was informed,
and of the incidents thereof. There was an usage in England, and yet is in divers countries,
that the noblemen hath great franchise over the commons and keepeth them in servage, that is
to say, their tenants ought by custom to labour the lords' lands, to gather and bring home
their corns, and some to thresh and to fan, and by servage to make their hay and to hew their
wood and bring it home. All these things they ought to do by servage, and there be more of
these people in England than in any other realm. Thus the noblemen and prelates are served
by them, and especially in the county of Kent, Essex, Sussex and Bedford. These unhappy people
of these said countries began to stir, because they said they were kept in great servage, and
in the beginning of the world, they said, there were no bondmen, wherefore they maintained
that none ought to be bond, without he did treason to his lord, as Lucifer did to God; but
they said they could have no such battle,[1] for they were neither angels nor spirits, but
men formed to the similitude of their lords, saying why should they then be kept so under like
beasts; the which they said they would no longer suffer, for they would be all one, and if
they laboured or did anything for their lords, they would have wages therefor as well as other.
And of this imagination was a foolish priest in the country of Kent called John Ball, for the
which foolish words he had been three times in the bishop of Canterbury's prison: for this
priest used oftentimes on the Sundays after mass, when the people were going out of the minster,
to go into the cloister and preach, and made the people to assemble about him, and would say
thus: 'Ah, ye good people, the matters goeth not well to pass in England, nor shall not do
till everything be common, and that there be no villains nor gentlemen, but that we may be
all united together, and that the lords be no greater masters than we be. What have we deserved,
or why should we be kept thus in servage? We be all come from one father and one mother, Adam
and Eve: whereby can they say or shew that they be greater lords than we be, saving by that
they cause us to win and labour for that they dispend? They are clothed in velvet and camlet
furred with grise, and we be vestured with poor cloth: they have their wines, spices and good
bread, and we have the drawing out of the chaff[2] and drink water; they dwell in fair houses,
and we have the pain and travail, rain and wind in the fields; and by that that cometh of our
labours they keep and maintain their estates: we be called their bondmen, and without we do
readily them service, we be beaten; and we have no sovereign to whom we may complain, nor that
will hear us nor do us right. Let us go to the king, he is young, and shew him what servage
we be in, and shew him how we will have it otherwise, or else we will provide us of some remedy;
and if we go together, all manner of people that be now in any bondage will follow us to the
intent to be made free; and when the king seeth us, we shall have some remedy, either by fairness
or otherwise.' Thus John Ball said on Sundays, when the people issued out of the churches in
the villages; wherefore many of the mean people loved him, and such as intended to no goodness
said how he said truth; and so they would murmur one with another in the fields and in the
ways as they went together, affirming how John Ball said truth.

      [1] The true text is, 'Mais ils n'avoient pas cette taille,'
      'but they were not of that nature.' The translator found the
      corruption 'bataille' for 'taille.'

      [2] Froissart says 'le seigle, le retrait et la paille,' 'the
      rye, the bran and the straw.' The translator's French text had
      'le seigle, le retraict de la paille.'

The archbishop of Canterbury, who was informed of the saying of this John Ball, caused him
to be taken and put in prison a two or three months to chastise him: howbeit, it had been much
better at the beginning that he had been condemned to perpetual prison or else to have died,
rather than to have suffered him to have been again delivered out of prison; but the bishop
had conscience to let him die. And when this John Ball was out of prison, he returned again
to his error, as he did before.

Of his words and deeds there were much people in London informed, such as had great envy at
them that were rich and such as were noble; and then they began to speak among them and said
how the realm of England was right evil governed, and how that gold and silver was taken from
them by them that were named noblemen: so thus these unhappy men of London began to rebel and
assembled them together, and sent word to the foresaid countries that they should come to London
and bring their people with them, promising them how they should find London open to receive
them and the commons of the city to be of the same accord, saying how they would do so much
to the king that there should not be one bondman in all England.

This promise moved so them of Kent, of Essex, of Sussex, of Bedford and of the countries about,
that they rose and came towards London to the number of sixty thousand. And they had a captain
called Water Tyler, and with him in company was Jack Straw and John Ball: these three were
chief sovereign captains, but the head of all was Water Tyler, and he was indeed a tiler of
houses, an ungracious patron. When these unhappy men began thus to stir, they of London, except
such as were of their band, were greatly affrayed. Then the mayor of London and the rich men
of the city took counsel together, and when they saw the people thus coming on every side,
they caused the gates of the city to be closed and would suffer no man to enter into the city.
But when they had well imagined, they advised not so to do, for they thought they should thereby
put their suburbs in great peril to be brent; and so they opened again the city, and there
entered in at the gates in some place a hundred, two hundred, by twenty and by thirty, and
so when they came to London, they entered and lodged: and yet of truth the third part[3] of
these people could not tell what to ask or demand, but followed each other like beasts, as
the shepherds[4] did of old time, saying how they would go conquer the Holy Land, and at last
all came to nothing. In like wise these villains and poor people came to London, a hundred
mile off, sixty mile, fifty mile, forty mile, and twenty mile off, and from all countries about
London, but the most part came from the countries before named, and as they came they demanded
ever for the king. The gentlemen of the countries, knights and squires, began to doubt, when
they saw the people began to rebel; and though they were in doubt, it was good reason; for
a less occasion they might have been affrayed. So the gentlemen drew together as well as they
might.

      [3] 'Bien les trois pars.'  i.e. 'three-fourths.'

      [4] 'Les pastoureaulx.' The reference no doubt is to the
      Pastoureaux of 1320, who were destroyed at Aigues-Mortes when
      attempting to obtain a passage to the Holy Land.

The same day that these unhappy people of Kent were coming to London, there returned from Canterbury
the king's mother, princess of Wales, coming from her pilgrimage. She was in great jeopardy
to have been lost, for these people came to her chare and dealt rudely with her, whereof the
good lady was in great doubt lest they would have done some villany to her or to her damosels.
Howbeit, God kept her, and she came in one day from Canterbury to London, for she never durst
tarry by the way. The same time king Richard her son was at the Tower of London: there his
mother found him, and with him there was the earl of Salisbury, the archbishop of Canterbury,
sir Robert of Namur, the lord of Gommegnies and divers other, who were in doubt of these people
that thus gathered together, and wist not what they demanded. This rebellion was well known
in the king's court, or any of these people began to stir out of their houses; but the king
nor his council did provide no remedy therefor, which was great marvel. And to the intent that
all lords and good people and such as would nothing but good should take ensample to correct
them that be evil and rebellious, I shall shew you plainly all the matter, as it was.

THE EVIL DEEDS THAT THESE COMMONS OF ENGLAND DID TO THE KING'S OFFICERS, AND HOW THEY SENT
A KNIGHT TO SPEAK WITH THE KING

The Monday before the feast of Corpus Christi the year of our Lord God a thousand three hundred
and eighty-one these people issued out of their houses to come to London to speak with the
king to be made free, for they would have had no bondman in England. And so first they came
to Saint Thomas of Canterbury, and there John Ball had thought to have found the bishop of
Canterbury, but he was at London with the king. When Wat Tyler and Jack Straw entered into
Canterbury, all the common people made great feast, for all the town was of their assent; and
there they took counsel to go to London to the king, and to send some of their company over
the river of Thames into Essex, into Sussex and into the counties of Stafford and Bedford,
to speak to the people that they should all come to the farther side of London and thereby
to close London round about, so that the king should not stop their passages, and that they
should all meet together on Corpus Christi day. They that were at Canterbury entered into Saint
Thomas' church and did there much hurt, and robbed and brake up the bishop's chamber, and in
robbing and bearing out their pillage they said: 'Ah, this chancellor of England hath had a
good market to get together all this riches: he shall give us now account of the revenues of
England and of the great profits that he hath gathered sith the king's coronation.' When they
had this Monday thus broken the abbey of Saint Vincent, they departed in the morning and all
the people of Canterbury with them, and so took the way to Rochester and sent their people
to the villages about. And in their going they beat down and robbed houses of advocates and
procurers of the king's court and of the archbishop, and had mercy of none. And when they were
come to Rochester, they had there good cheer; for the people of that town tarried for them,
for they were of the same sect, and then they went to the castle there and took the knight
that had the rule thereof, he was called sir John Newton, and they said to him: 'Sir, it behoveth
you to go with us and you shall be our sovereign captain and to do that we will have you,'
The knight excused himself honestly and shewed them divers considerations and excuses, but
all availed him nothing, for they said unto him: 'Sir John, if ye do not as we will have you,
ye are but dead,' The knight, seeing these people in that fury and ready to slay him, he then
doubted death and agreed to them, and so they took him with them against his inward will; and
in like wise did they of other counties in England, as Essex, Sussex, Stafford, Bedford and
Warwick, even to Lincoln; for they brought the knights and gentlemen into such obeisance, that
they caused them to go with them, whether they would or not, as the lord Moylays, a great baron,
sir Stephen of Hales and sir Thomas of Cosington and other.

Now behold the great fortune. If they might have come to their intents, they would have destroyed
all the noblemen of England, and thereafter all other nations would have followed the same
and have taken foot and ensample by them and by them of Gaunt and Flanders, who rebelled against
their lord. The same year the Parisians rebelled in like wise and found out the mallets of
iron, of whom there were more than twenty thousand, as ye shall hear after in this history;
but first we will speak of them of England.

When these people thus lodged at Rochester departed, and passed the river and came to Brentford,
alway keeping still their opinions, beating down before them and all about the places and houses
of advocates and procurers, and striking off the heads of divers persons. And so long they
went forward till they came within a four mile of London, and there lodged on a hill called
Blackheath; and as they went, they said ever they were the king's men and the noble commons
of England:[1] and when they of London knew that they were come so near to them, the mayor,
as ye have heard before, closed the gates and kept straitly all the passages. This order caused
the mayor, who was called Nicholas Walworth,[2] and divers other rich burgesses of the city,
who were not of their sect; but there were in London of their unhappy opinions more than thirty
thousand.

      [1] 'That they were for the king and the noble commons (or
      commonwealth) of England.'

      [2] Froissart calls him John: his name was really William.

Then these people thus being lodged on Blackheath determined to send their knight to speak
with the king and to shew him how all that they have done or will do is for him and his honour,
and how the realm of England hath not been well governed a great space for the honour of the
realm nor for the common profit by his uncles and by the clergy, and specially by the archbishop
of Canterbury his chancellor; whereof they would have account. This knight durst do none otherwise,
but so came by the river of Thames to the Tower. The king and they that were with him in the
Tower, desiring to hear tidings, seeing this knight coming made him way, and was brought before
the king into a chamber; and with the king was the princess his mother and his two brethren,
the earl of Kent and the lord John Holland, the earl of Salisbury, the earl of Warwick, the
earl of Oxford, the archbishop of Canterbury, the lord of Saint John's,[3] sir Robert of Namur,
the lord of Vertaing, the lord of Gommegnies, sir Henry of Senzeille, the mayor of London and
divers other notable burgesses. This knight sir John Newton, who was well known among them,
for he was one of the king's officers, he kneeled down before the king and said: 'My right
redoubted lord, let it not displease your grace the message that I must needs shew you, for,
dear sir, it is by force and against my will.' 'Sir John,' said the king, 'say what ye will:
I hold you excused.' 'Sir, the commons of this your realm hath sent me to you to desire you
to come and speak with them on Blackheath; for they desire to have none but you: and, sir,
ye need not to have any doubt of your person, for they will do you no hurt; for they hold and
will hold you for their king. But, sir, they say they will shew you divers things, the which
shall be right necessary for you to take heed of, when they speak with you; of the which things,
sir, I have no charge to shew you: but, sir, it may please you to give me an answer such as
may appease them and that they may know for truth that I have spoken with you; for they have
my children in hostage till I return again to them, and without I return again, they will slay
my children incontinent.'

      [3] That is, the grand prior of the Hospital.

Then the king made him an answer and said: 'Sir, ye shall have an answer shortly.' Then the
king took counsel what was best for him to do, and it was anon determined that the next morning
the king should go down the river by water and without fail to speak with them. And when sir
John Newton heard that answer, he desired nothing else and so took his leave of the king and
of the lords and returned again into his vessel, and passed the Thames and went to Blackheath,
where he had left more than threescore thousand men. And there he answered them that the next
morning they should send some of their council to the Thames, and there the king would come
and speak with them.[4] This answer greatly pleased them, and so passed that night as well
as they might, and the fourth part of them fasted for lack of victual for they had none, wherewith
they were sore displeased, which was good reason.

      [4] 'Les quatre pars d'eux,' 'four-fifths of them.'

All this season the earl of Buckingham was in Wales, for there he had fair heritages by reason
of his wife, who was daughter to the earl of Northumberland and Hereford; but the voice was
all through London how he was among these people. And some said certainly how they had seen
him there among them; and all was because there was one Thomas in their company, a man of the
county of Cambridge, that was very like the earl. Also the lords that lay at Plymouth to go
into Portugal were well informed of this rebellion and of the people that thus began to rise;
wherefore they doubted lest their viage should have been broken, or else they feared lest the
commons about Hampton, Winchester and Arundel would have come on them: wherefore they weighed
up their anchors and issued out of the haven with great pain, for the wind was sore against
them, and so took the sea and there cast anchor abiding for the wind. And the duke of Lancaster,
who was in the marches of Scotland between Moorlane and Roxburgh entreating with the Scots,
where it was shewed him of the rebellion, whereof he was in doubt, for he knew well he was
but little beloved with the commons of England; howbeit, for all those tidings, yet he did
sagely demean himself as touching the treaty with the Scots. The earl Douglas, the earl of
Moray, the earl of Sutherland and the earl Thomas Versy, and the Scots that were there for
the treaty knew right well the rebellion in England, how the common people in every part began
to rebel against the noblemen; wherefore the Scots thought that England was in great danger
to be lost, and therefore in their treaties they were the more stiffer against the duke of
Lancaster and his council.

Now let us speak of the commons of England and how they persevered.

HOW THE COMMONS OF ENGLAND ENTERED INTO LONDON, AND OF THE GREAT EVIL THAT THEY DID, AND OF
THE DEATH OF THE BISHOP OF CANTERBURY AND DIVERS OTHER

In the morning on Corpus Christi day king Richard heard mass in the Tower of London, and all
his lords, and then he took his barge with the earl of Salisbury, the earl of Warwick, the
earl of Oxford and certain knights, and so rowed down along the Thames to Rotherhithe, whereas
was descended down the hill a ten thousand men to see the king and to speak with him. And when
they saw the king's barge coming, they began to shout, and made such a cry, as though all the
devils of hell had been among them. And they had brought with them sir John Newton to the intent
that, if the king had not come, they would have stricken him all to pieces, and so they had
promised him. And when the king and his lords saw the demeanour of the people, the best assured
of them were in dread; and so the king was counselled by his barons not to take any landing
there, but so rowed up and down the river. And the king demanded of them what they would, and
said how he was come thither to speak with them, and they said all with one voice: 'We would
that ye should come aland, and then we shall shew you what we lack.' Then the earl of Salisbury
answered for the king and said: 'Sirs, ye be not in such order nor array that the king ought
to speak with you.' And so with those words no more said: and then the king was counselled
to return again to the Tower of London, and so he did.

And when these people saw that, they were inflamed with ire and returned to the hill where
the great band was, and there shewed them what answer they had and how the king was returned
to the Tower of London. Then they cried all with one voice, 'Let us go to London,' and so they
took their way thither; and in their going they beat down abbeys and houses of advocates and
of men of the court, and so came into the suburbs of London, which were great and fair, and
there beat down divers fair houses, and specially they brake up the king's prisons, as the
Marshalsea and other, and delivered out all the prisoners that were within: and there they
did much hurt, and at the bridge foot they threat them of London because the gates of the bridge
were closed, saying how they would bren all the suburbs and so conquer London by force, and
to slay and bren all the commons of the city. There were many within the city of their accord,
and so they drew together and said: 'Why do we not let these good people enter into the city?
they are your fellows, and that that they do is for us,' So therewith the gates were opened,
and then these people entered into the city and went into houses and sat down to eat and drink.
They desired nothing but it was incontinent brought to them, for every man was ready to make
them good cheer and to give them meat and drink to appease them.

Then the captains, as John Ball, Jack Straw and Wat Tyler, went throughout London and a twenty
thousand with them, and so came to the Savoy in the way to Westminster, which was a goodly
house and it pertained to the duke of Lancaster. And when they entered, they slew the keepers
thereof and robbed and pilled the house, and when they had so done, then they set fire on it
and clean destroyed and brent it. And when they had done that outrage, they left not therewith,
but went straight to the fair hospital of the Rhodes called Saint John's,[1] and there they
brent house, hospital, minster and all. Then they went from street to street and slew all the
Flemings that they could find in church or in any other place, there was none respited from
death. And they brake up divers houses of the Lombards and robbed them and took their goods
at their pleasure, for there was none that durst say them nay. And they slew in the city a
rich merchant called Richard Lyon, to whom before that time Wat Tyler had done service in France;
and on a time this Richard Lyon had beaten him, while he was his varlet, the which Wat Tyler
then remembered and so came to his house and strake off his head and caused it to be borne
on a spear-point before him all about the city. Thus these ungracious people demeaned themselves
like people enraged and wood, and so that day they did much sorrow in London.

      [1] This is called afterwards 'l'Ospital de Saint Jehan du
      Temple,' and therefore would probably be the Temple, to which
      the Hospitallers had suceeded. They had, however, another house
      at Clerkenwell, which also had been once the property of the
      Templars.

And so against night they went to lodge at Saint Katherine's before the Tower of London, saying
how they would never depart thence till they had the king at their pleasure and till he had
accorded to them all (they would ask, and) that they would ask accounts of the chancellor of
England, to know where all the good was become that he had levied through the realm, and without
he made a good account to them thereof, it should not be for his profit. And so when they had
done all these evils to the strangers all the day, at night they lodged before the Tower.

Ye may well know and believe that it was great pity for the danger that the king and such as
were with him were in. For some time these unhappy people shouted and cried so loud, as though
all the devils of hell had been among them. In this evening the king was counselled by his
brethren and lords and by sir Nicholas Walworth, mayor of London, and divers other notable
and rich burgesses, that in the night time they should issue out of the Tower and enter into
the city, and so to slay all these unhappy people, while they were at their rest and asleep;
for it was thought that many of them were drunken, whereby they should be slain like flies;
also of twenty of them there was scant one in harness. And surely the good men of London might
well have done this at their ease, for they had in their houses secretly their friends and
servants ready in harness, and also sir Robert Knolles was in his lodging keeping his treasure
with a sixscore ready at his commandment; in like wise was sir Perducas d'Albret, who was as
then in London, insomuch that there might well (have) assembled together an eight thousand
men ready in harness. Howbeit, there was nothing done, for the residue of the commons of the
city were sore doubted, lest they should rise also, and the commons before were a threescore
thousand or more. Then the earl of Salisbury and the wise men about the king said: 'Sir, if
ye can appease them with fairness, it were best and most profitable, and to grant them everything
that they desire, for if we should begin a thing the which we could not achieve, we should
never recover it again, but we and our heirs ever to be disinherited,' So this counsel was
taken and the mayor countermanded, and so commanded that he should not stir; and he did as
he was commanded, as reason was. And in the city with the mayor there were twelve aldermen,
whereof nine of them held with the king and the other three took part with these ungracious
people, as it was after well known, the which they full dearly bought.

And on the Friday in the morning the people, being at Saint Katharine's near to the Tower,
began to apparel themselves and to cry and shout, and said, without the king would come out
and speak with them, they would assail the Tower and take it by force, and slay all them that
were within. Then the king doubted these words and so was counselled that he should issue out
to speak with them: and then the king sent to them that they should all draw to a fair plain
place called Mile-end, whereas the people of the city did sport them in the summer season,
and there the king to grant them that they desired; and there it was cried in the king's name,
that whosoever would speak with the king let him go to the said place, and there he should
not fail to find the king. Then the people began to depart, specially the commons of the villages,
and went to the same place: but all went not thither, for they were not all of one condition;
for there were some that desired nothing but riches and the utter destruction of the noblemen
and to have London robbed and pilled; that was the principal matter of their beginning, the
which they well shewed, for as soon as the Tower gate opened and that the king was issued out
with his two brethren and the earl of Salisbury, the earl of Warwick, the earl of Oxford, sir
Robert of Namur, the lord of Vertaing, the lord Gommegnies and divers other, then Wat Tyler,
Jack Straw and John Ball and more than four hundred entered into the Tower and brake up chamber
after chamber, and at last found the archbishop of Canterbury, called Simon, a valiant man
and a wise, and chief chancellor of England, and a little before he had said mass before the
king. These gluttons took him and strake off his head, and also they beheaded the lord of Saint
John's and a friar minor, master in medicine, pertaining to the duke of Lancaster, they slew
him in despite of his master, and a sergeant at arms called John Leg; and these four heads
were set on four long spears and they made them to be borne before them through the streets
of London and at last set them a-high on London bridge, as though they had been traitors to
the king and to the realm. Also these gluttons entered into the princess' chamber and brake
her bed, whereby she was so sore affrayed that she swooned; and there she was taken up and
borne to the water side and put into a barge and covered, and so conveyed to a place called
the Queen's Wardrobe;[2] and there she was all that day and night like a woman half dead, till
she was comforted with the king her son, as ye shall hear after.

      [2] The Queen's Wardrobe was in the 'Royal' (called by Froissart
      or his copyist 'la Réole'), a palace near Blackfriars.

HOW THE NOBLES OF ENGLAND WERE IN GREAT PERIL TO HAVE BEEN DESTROYED, AND HOW THESE REBELS
WERE PUNISHED AND SENT HOME TO THEIR OWN HOUSES

When the king came to the said place of Mile-end without London, he put out of his company
his two brethren, the earl of Kent and sir John Holland, and the lord of Gommegnies, for they
durst not appear before the people: and when the king and his other lords were there, he found
there a threescore thousand men of divers villages and of sundry countries in England; so the
king entered in among them and said to them sweetly: 'Ah, ye good people, I am your king: what
lack ye? what will ye say?' Then such as understood him said: 'We will that ye make us free
for ever, ourselves, our heirs and our lands, and that we be called no more bond nor so reputed.'
'Sirs,' said the king, 'I am well agreed thereto. Withdraw you home into your own houses and
into such villages as ye came from, and leave behind you of every village two or three, and
I shall cause writings to be made and seal them with my seal, the which they shall have with
them, containing everything that ye demand; and to the intent that ye shall be the better assured,
I shall cause my banners to be delivered into every bailiwick, shire and countries.'

These words appeased well the common people, such as were simple and good plain men, that were
come thither and wist not why. They said, 'It was well said, we desire no better.' Thus these
people began to be appeased and began to withdraw them into the city of London. And the king
also said a word, the which greatly contented them. He said: 'Sirs, among you good men of Kent
ye shall have one of my banners with you, and ye of Essex another, and ye of Sussex, of Bedford,
of Cambridge, of Yarmouth, of Stafford and of Lynn, each of you one; and also I pardon everything
that ye have done hitherto, so that ye follow my banners and return home to your houses.' They
all answered how they would so do: thus these people departed and went into London. Then the
king ordained more than thirty clerks the same Friday, to write with all diligence letter patents
and sealed with the king's seal, and delivered them to these people; and when they had received
the writing, they departed and returned into their own countries: but the great venom remained
still behind, for Wat Tyler, Jack Straw and John Ball said, for all that these people were
thus appeased, yet they would not depart so, and they had of their accord more than thirty
thousand. So they abode still and made no press to have the king's writing nor seal, for all
their intents was to put the city to trouble in such wise as to slay all the rich and honest
persons and to rob and pill their houses. They of London were in great fear of this, wherefore
they kept their houses privily with their friends and such servants as they had, every man
according to his puissance. And when these said people were this Friday thus somewhat appeased,
and that they should depart as soon as they had their writings, every man home into his own
country, then king Richard came into the Royal, where the queen his mother was, right sore
affrayed: so he comforted her as well as he could and tarried there with her all that night.

Yet I shall shew you of an adventure that fell by these ungracious people before the city of
Norwich, by a captain among them called Guilliam Lister of Stafford. The same day of Corpus
Christi that these people entered into London and brent the duke of Lancaster's house, called
the Savoy; and the hospital of Saint John's and brake up the king's prisons and did all this
hurt, as ye have heard before, the same time there assembled together they of Stafford, of
Lynn, of Cambridge, of Bedford and of Yarmouth; and as they were coming towards London, they
had a captain among them called Lister. And as they came, they rested them before Norwich,
and in their coming they caused every man to rise with them, so that they left no villains
behind them. The cause why they rested before Norwich I shall shew you. There was a knight,
captain of the town, called sir Robert Sale. He was no gentleman born, but he had the grace
to be reputed sage and valiant in arms, and for his valiantness king Edward made him knight.
He was of his body one of the biggest knights in all England. Lister and his company thought
to have had this knight with them and to make him their chief captain, to the intent to be
the more feared and beloved: so they sent to him that he should come and speak with them in
the field, or else they would bren the town. The knight considered that it was better for him
to go and speak with them rather than they should do that outrage to the town: then he mounted
on his horse and issued out of the town all alone, and so came to speak with them. And when
they saw him, they made him great cheer and honoured him much, desiring him to alight off his
horse and to speak with them, and so he did: wherein he did great folly; for when he was alighted,
they came round about him and began to speak fair to him and said: 'Sir Robert, ye are a knight
and a man greatly beloved in this country and renowned a valiant man; and though ye be thus,
yet we know you well, ye be no gentleman born, but son to a villain such as we be. Therefore
come you with us and be our master, and we shall make you so great a lord, that one quarter
of England shall be under your obeisance,' When the knight heard them speak thus, it was greatly
contrarious to his mind, for he thought never to make any such bargain, and answered them with
a felonous regard: 'Fly away, ye ungracious people, false and evil traitors that ye be: would
you that I should forsake my natural lord for such a company of knaves as ye be, to my dishonour
for ever? I had rather ye were all hanged, as ye shall be; for that shall be your end.' And
with those words he had thought to have leapt again upon his horse, but he failed of the stirrup
and the horse started away. Then they cried all at him and said: 'Slay him without mercy.'
When he heard those words, he let his horse go and drew out a good sword and began to scrimmish
with them, and made a great place about him, that it was pleasure to behold him. There was
none that durst approach near him: there were some that approached near him, but at every stroke
that he gave he cut off other leg, head or arm: there was none so hardy but that they feared
him: he did there such deeds of arms that it was marvel to regard. But there were more than
forty thousand of these unhappy people: they shot and cast at him, and he was unarmed: to say
truth, if he had been of iron or steel, yet he must needs have been slain; but yet, or he died,
he slew twelve out of hand, beside them that he hurt. Finally he was stricken to the earth,
and they cut off his arms and legs and then strake his body all to pieces. This was the end
of sir Robert Sale, which was great damage; for which deed afterward all the knights and squires
of England were angry and sore displeased when they heard thereof.

Now let us return to the king. The Saturday the king departed from the Wardrobe in the Royal
and went to Westminster and heard mass in the church there, and all his lords with him. And
beside the church there was a little chapel with an image of our Lady, which did great miracles
and in whom the kings of England had ever great trust and confidence. The king made his orisons
before this image and did there his offering; and then he leapt on his horse, and all his lords,
and so the king rode toward London; and when he had ridden a little way, on the left hand there
was a way to pass without London.[1]

      [1] Or rather, 'he found a place on the left hand to pass
      without London.'

The same proper morning Wat Tyler, Jack Straw and John Ball had assembled their company to
common together in a place called Smithfield, whereas every Friday there is a market of horses;
and there were together all of affinity more than twenty thousand, and yet there were many
still in the town, drinking and making merry in the taverns and paid nothing, for they were
happy that made them best cheer. And these people in Smithfield had with them the king's banners,
the which were delivered them the day before, and all these gluttons were in mind to overrun
and to rob London the same day; for their captains said how they had done nothing as yet. 'These
liberties that the king hath given us is to us but a small profit: therefore let us be all
of one accord and let us overrun this rich and puissant city, or they of Essex, of Sussex,
of Cambridge, of Bedford, of Arundel, of Warwick, of Reading, of Oxford, of Guildford, of Lynn,
of Stafford, of Yarmouth, of Lincoln, of York and of Durham do come hither. For all these will
come hither; Baker and Lister will bring them hither; and if we be first lords of London and
have the possession of the riches that is therein, we shall not repent us; for if we leave
it, they that come after will have it from us.'

To this counsel they all agreed; and therewith the king came the same way unware of them, for
he had thought to have passed that way without London, and with him a forty horse. And when
he came before the abbey of Saint Bartholomew and beheld all these people, then the king rested
and said how he would go no farther till he knew what these people ailed, saying, if they were
in any trouble, how he would rappease them again. The lords that were with him tarried also,
as reason was when they saw the king tarry. And when Wat Tyler saw the king tarry, he said
to his people: 'Sirs, yonder is the king: I will go and speak with him. Stir not from hence,
without I make you a sign; and when I make you that sign, come on and slay all them except
the king; but do the king no hurt, he is young, we shall do with him as we list and shall lead
him with us all about England, and so shall we be lords of all the realm without doubt.' And
there was a doublet-maker of London called John Tycle, and he had brought to these gluttons
a sixty doublets, the which they ware: then he demanded of these captains who should pay him
for his doublets; he demanded thirty mark. Wat Tyler answered him and said: 'Friend, appease
yourself, thou shalt be well paid or this day be ended. Keep thee near me; I shall be thy creditor.'
And therewith he spurred his horse and departed from his company and came to the king, so near
him that his horse head touched the croup of the king's horse, and the first word that he said
was this: 'Sir king, seest thou all yonder people?' 'Yea truly,' said the king, 'wherefore
sayest thou?' 'Because,' said he, 'they be all at my commandment and have sworn to me faith
and truth, to do all that I will have them' 'In a good time,' said the king, 'I will well it
be so.' Then Wat Tyler said, as he that nothing demanded but riot: 'What believest thou, king,
that these people and as many more as be in London at my commandment, that they will depart
from thee thus without having thy letters?' 'No,' said the king, 'ye shall have them: they
be ordained for you and shall be delivered every one each after other. Wherefore, good fellows,
withdraw fair and easily to your people and cause them to depart out of London; for it is our
intent that each of you by villages and townships shall have letters patents, as I have promised
you.'

With those words Wat Tyler cast his eyen on a squire that was there with the king bearing the
king's sword, and Wat Tyler hated greatly the same squire, for the same squire had displeased
him before for words between them. 'What,' said Tyler, 'art thou there? Give me thy dagger.'
'Nay,' said the squire, 'that will I not do: wherefore should I give it thee?' The king beheld
the squire and said: 'Give it him; let him have it.' And so the squire took it him sore against
his will. And when this Wat Tyler had it, he began to play therewith and turned it in his hand,
and said again to the squire: 'Give me also that sword.' 'Nay,' said the squire, 'it is the
king's sword: thou art not worthy to have it, for thou art but a knave; and if there were no
more here but thou and I, thou durst not speak those words for as much gold in quantity as
all yonder abbey.'[2] 'By my faith,' said Wat Tyler, 'I shall never eat meat till I have thy
head': and with those words the mayor of London came to the king with a twelve horses well
armed under their coats, and so he brake the press and saw and heard how Wat Tyler demeaned
himself, and said to him: 'Ha, thou knave, how art thou so hardy in the king's presence to
speak such words? It is too much for thee so to do.' Then the king began to chafe and said
to the mayor: 'Set hands on him.' And while the king said so, Tyler said to the mayor: 'A God's
name what have I said to displease thee?' 'Yes truly,' quoth the mayor, 'thou false stinking
knave, shalt thou speak thus in the presence of the king my natural lord? I commit never to
live, without thou shalt dearly abye it.'[3] And with those words the mayor drew out his sword
and strake Tyler so great a stroke on the head, that he fell down at the feet of his horse,
and as soon as he was fallen, they environed him all about, whereby he was not seen of his
company. Then a squire of the king's alighted, called John Standish, and he drew out his sword
and put it into Wat Tyler's belly, and so he died.

      [2] The full text has, 'for as much gold as that minster of
      Saint Paul is great.'

      [3] 'Jamais je veux vivre, si tu ne le compares.'

Then the ungracious people there assembled, perceiving their captain slain, began to murmur
among themselves and said: 'Ah, our captain is slain, let us go and slay them all': and therewith
they arranged themselves on the place in manner of battle, and their bows before them. Thus
the king began a great outrage;[4] howbeit, all turned to the best: for as soon as Tyler was
on the earth, the king departed from all his company and all alone he rode to these people,
and said to his own men: 'Sirs, none of you follow me; let me alone.' And so when he came before
these ungracious people, who put themselves in ordinance to revenge their captain, then the
king said to them: 'Sirs, what aileth you? Ye shall have no captain but me: I am your king:
be all in rest and peace.' And so the most part of the people that heard the king speak and
saw him among them, were shamefast and began to wax peaceable and to depart; but some, such
as were malicious and evil, would not depart, but made semblant as though they would do somewhat.

      [4] 'Outrage' here means 'act of boldness,' as elsewhere, e.g.
      'si fist une grant apertise d'armes et un grant outrage.'

Then the king returned to his own company and demanded of them what was best to be done. Then
he was counselled to draw into the field, for to fly away was no boot. Then said the mayor:
'It is good that we do so, for I think surely we shall have shortly some comfort of them of
London and of such good men as be of our part, who are purveyed and have their friends and
men ready armed in their houses.' And in the mean time voice and bruit ran through London how
these unhappy people were likely to slay the king and the mayor in Smithfield; through the
which noise all manner of good men of the king's party issued out of their houses and lodgings
well armed, and so came all to Smithfield and to the field where the king was, and they were
anon to the number of seven or eight thousand men well armed. And first thither came sir Robert
Knolles and sir Perducas d'Albret, well accompanied, and divers of the aldermen of London,
and with them a six hundred men in harness, and a puissant man of the city, who was the king's
draper,[5] called Nicholas Bramber, and he brought with him a great company; and ever as they
came, they ranged them afoot in order of battle: and on the other part these unhappy people
were ready ranged, making semblance to give battle, and they had with them divers of the king's
banners. There the king made three knights, the one the mayor of London sir Nicholas Walworth,
sir John Standish and sir Nicholas Bramber. Then the lords said among themselves: 'What shall
we do? We see here our enemies, who would gladly slay us, if they might have the better hand
of us.' Sir Robert Knolles counselled to go and fight with them and slay them all; yet the
king would not consent thereto, but said: 'Nay, I will not so: I will send to them commanding
them to send me again my banners and thereby we shall see what they will do. Howbeit, other
by fairness or otherwise, I will have them.' 'That is well said, sir,' quoth the earl of Salisbury.
Then these new knights were sent to them, and these knights made token to them not to shoot
at them, and when they came so near them that their speech might be heard, they said: 'Sirs,
the king commandeth you to send to him again his banners, and we think he will have mercy of
you.' And incontinent they delivered again the banners and sent them to the king. Also they
were commanded on pain of their heads, that all such as had letters of the king to bring them
forth and to send them again to the king; and so many of them delivered their letters, but
not all. Then the king made them to be all to torn in their presence; and as soon as the king's
banners were delivered again, these unhappy people kept none array, but the most part of them
did cast down their bows, and so brake their array and returned into London. Sir Robert Knolles
was sore displeased in that he might not go to slay them all: but the king would not consent
thereto, but said he would be revenged of them well enough; and so he was after.

      [5] 'Qui estoit des draps du roy.' He owned large estates in
      Essex and also shops in London. He became one of the councillors
      of Richard II.

Thus these foolish people departed, some one way and some another; and the king and his lords
and all his company right ordinately entered into London with great joy. And the first journey
that the king made he went to the lady princess his mother, who was in a castle in the Royal
called the Queen's Wardrobe, and there she had tarried two days and two nights right sore abashed,
as she had good reason; and when she saw the king her son, she was greatly rejoiced and said:
'Ah, fair son, what pain and great sorrow that I have suffered for you this day!' Then the
king answered and said: 'Certainly, madam, I know it well; but now rejoice yourself and thank
God, for now it is time. I have this day recovered mine heritage and the realm of England,
the which I had near lost.' Thus the king tarried that day with his mother, and every lord
went peaceably to their own lodgings. Then there was a cry made in every street in the king's
name, that all manner of men, not being of the city of London and have not dwelt there the
space of one year, to depart; and if any such be found there the Sunday by the sun-rising,
that they should be taken as traitors to the king and to lose their heads. This cry thus made,
there was none that durst brake it, and so all manner of people departed and sparkled abroad
every man to their own places. John Ball and Jack Straw were found in an old house hidden,
thinking to have stolen away, but they could not, for they were accused by their own men. Of
the taking of them the king and his lords were glad, and then strake off their heads and Wat
Tyler's also, and they were set on London bridge, and the valiant men's heads taken down that
they had set on the Thursday before. These tidings anon spread abroad, so that the people of
the strange countries, which were coming towards London, returned back again to their own houses
and durst come no farther.

THE BATTLE OF OTTERBURN

HOW THE EARL DOUGLAS WON THE PENNON OF SIR HENRY PERCY AT THE BARRIERS BEFORE NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE,
AND HOW THE SCOTS BRENT THE CASTLE OF PONTLAND, AND HOW SIR HENRY PERCY AND SIR RALPH HIS BROTHER
TOOK ADVICE TO FOLLOW THE SCOTS TO CONQUER AGAIN THE PENNON THAT WAS LOST AT THE SCRIMMISH

When the English lords saw that their squire returned not again at the time appointed, and
could know nothing what the Scots did, nor what they were purposed to do, then they thought
well that their squire was taken. The lords sent each to other, to be ready whensoever they
should hear that the Scots were abroad: as for their messenger, they thought him but lost.

Now let us speak of the earl Douglas and other, for they had more to do than they that went
by Carlisle. When the earls of Douglas, of Moray, of March, and Dunbar[1] departed from the
great host, they took their way thinking to pass the water and to enter into the bishopric
of Durham, and to ride to the town and then to return, brenning and exiling the country and
so to come to Newcastle and to lodge there in the town in the despite of all the Englishmen.
And as they determined, so they did assay to put it in use, for they rode a great pace under
covert without doing of any pillage by the way or assaulting of any castle, tower or house,
but so came into the lord Percy's land and passed the river of Tyne without any let a three
leagues above Newcastle not far from Brancepeth, and at last entered into the bishopric of
Durham, where they found a good country. Then they began to make war, to slay people and to
bren villages and to do many sore displeasures.

      [1] George, earl of March and Dunbar: the text gives Mare, but
      there was at this time no earl of Mar.

As at that time the earl of Northumberland and the other lords and knights of that country
knew nothing of their coming. When tidings came to Newcastle and to Durham that the Scots were
abroad, and that they might well see by the fires and smoke abroad in the country, the earl
sent to Newcastle his two sons and sent commandment to every man to draw to Newcastle, saying
to his sons: 'Ye shall go to Newcastle and all the country shall assemble there, and I shall
tarry at Alnwick, which is a passage that they must pass by. If we may enclose them, we shall
speed well.' Sir Henry Percy and sir Ralph his brother obeyed their father's commandment and
came thither with them of the country. The Scots rode burning and exiling the country, that
the smoke thereof came to Newcastle. The Scots came to the gates of Durham and scrimmished
there; but they tarried not long but returned, as they had ordained before to do, and that
they found by the way took and destroyed it. Between Durham and Newcastle is but twelve leagues
English and a good country: there was no town, without it were closed, but it was brent, and
they repassed the river of Tyne where they had passed before, and then came before Newcastle
and there rested. All the English knights and squires of the country of York and bishopric
of Durham were assembled at Newcastle, and thither came the seneschal of York, sir Ralph Lumley,
sir Matthew Redman, captain of Berwick, sir Robert Ogle, sir Thomas Grey, sir Thomas Holton,
sir John Felton, sir John Lilleburn, sir Thomas Abingdon, the baron of Hilton, sir John Coppledike
and divers other, so that the town was so full of people that they wist not where to lodge.

When these three Scottish earls who were chief captains had made their enterprise in the bishopric
of Durham and had sore overrun the country, then they returned to Newcastle and there rested
and tarried two days, and every day they scrimmished. The earl of Northumberland's two sons
were two young lusty knights and were ever foremost at the barriers to scrimmish. There were
many proper feats of arms done and achieved: there was fighting hand to hand: among other there
fought hand to hand the earl Douglas and sir Henry Percy, and by force of arms the earl Douglas
won the pennon of sir Henry Percy's, wherewith he was sore displeased and so were all the Englishmen.
And the earl Douglas said to sir Henry Percy: 'Sir, I shall bear this token of your prowess
into Scotland and shall set it on high on my castle of Dalkeith, that it may be seen far off,'
'Sir,' quoth sir Henry, 'ye may be sure ye shall not pass the bounds of this country till ye
be met withal in such wise that ye shall make none avaunt thereof,' 'Well, sir,' quoth the
earl Douglas, 'come this night to my lodging and seek for your pennon: I shall set it before
my lodging and see if ye will come to take it away.' So then it was late, and the Scots withdrew
to their lodgings and refreshed them with such as they had. They had flesh enough: they made
that night good watch, for they thought surely to be awaked for the words they had spoken,
but they were not, for sir Henry Percy was counselled not so to do.

The next day the Scots dislodged and returned towards their own country, and so came to a castle
and a town called Pontland, whereof sir Edmund of Alphel was lord, who was a right good knight.
There the Scots rested, for they came thither betimes, and understood that the knight was in
his castle. Then they ordained to assail the castle, and gave a great assault, so that by force
of arms they won it and the knight within it. Then the town and castle was brent; and from
thence the Scots went to the town and castle of Otterburn, an eight English mile from Newcastle[2]
and there lodged. That day they made none assault, but the next morning they blew their horns
and made ready to assail the castle, which was strong, for it stood in the marish. That day
they assaulted till they were weary, and did nothing. Then they sowned the retreat and returned
to their lodgings. Then the lords drew to council to determine what they should do. The most
part were of the accord that the next day they should dislodge without giving of any assault
and to draw fair and easily towards Carlisle. But the earl Douglas brake that counsel and said:
'In despite of sir Henry Percy, who said he would come and win again his pennon, let us not
depart hence for two or three days. Let us assail this castle: it is pregnable: we shall have
double honour. And then let us see if he will come and fetch his pennon: he shall be well defended.'[3]
Every man accorded to his saying, what for their honour and for the love of him. Also they
lodged there at their ease, for there was none that troubled them: they made many lodgings
of boughs and great herbs and fortified their camp sagely with the marish that was thereby,
and their carriages were set at the entry into the marishes and had all their beasts within
the marish. Then they apparelled for to assault the next day: this was their intention.

      [2] Froissart says 'eight English leagues.' In the next chapter
      the distance becomes 'seven little leagues,' and later on, 'a
      six English miles,' where the original is 'lieues.' The actual
      distance is about thirty miles. The translator gives the form
      'Combur' here, but 'Ottenburge' in the next chapter, as the
      name of the place. It is remarkable indeed how little trouble
      he seems to have taken generally to give English names correctly.
      In this chapter we have 'Nymyche' for 'Alnwick' and 'Pouclan'
      for 'Pontland,' forms rather less like the real names than those
      which he found in the French text, viz. Nynich and Ponclau.

      [3] Froissart says, 'if he comes, it shall be defended.' The
      translator perhaps means 'he shall be prevented.'

Now let us speak of sir Henry Percy and of sir Ralph his brother and shew somewhat what they
did. They were sore displeased that the earl Douglas had won the pennon of their arms: also
it touched greatly their honours, if they did not as sir Henry Percy said he would; for he
had said to the earl Douglas that he should not carry his pennon out of England, and also he
had openly spoken it before all the knights and squires that were at Newcastle. The Englishmen
there thought surely that the earl Douglas' band was but the Scots' vanguard and that their
host was left behind. The knights of the country, such as were well expert in arms, spake against
sir Henry Percy's opinion and said to him: 'Sir, there fortuneth in war oftentimes many losses.
If the earl Douglas have won your pennon, he bought it dear, for he came to the gate to seek
it and was well beaten:[4] another day ye shall win as much of him or more. Sir, we say this
because we know well all the power of Scotland is abroad in the fields, and if we issue out
and be not men enow to fight with them, and peradventure they have made this scrimmish with
us to the intent to draw us out of the town, and the number that they be of, as it is said,
above forty thousand men, they may soon enclose us and do with us what they will. Yet it were
better to lose a pennon than two or three hundred knights and squires and put all our country
in adventure,' These words refrained sir Henry and his brother, for they would do nothing against
counsel. Then tidings came to them by such as had seen the Scots and seen all their demeanour
and what way they took and where they rested.

      [4] i.e. 'well fought with.'

HOW SIR HENRY PERCY AND HIS BROTHER WITH A GOOD NUMBER OF MEN OF ARMS AND ARCHERS WENT AFTER
THE SCOTS, TO WIN AGAIN HIS PENNON THAT THE EARL DOUGLAS HAD WON BEFORE NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE,
AND HOW THEY ASSAILED THE SCOTS BEFORE OTTERBURN IN THEIR LODGINGS

It was shewed to sir Henry Percy and to his brother and to the other knights and squires that
were there, by such as had followed the Scots from Newcastle and had well advised their doing,
who said to sir Henry and to sir Ralph: 'Sirs, we have followed the Scots privily and have
discovered all the country. The Scots be at Pontland and have taken sir Edmund Alphel in his
own castle, and from thence they be gone to Otterburn and there they lay this night. What they
will do to-morrow we know not: they are ordained to abide there: and, sirs, surely their great
host is not with them, for in all they pass not there a three thousand men,' When sir Henry
heard that, he was joyful and said: 'Sirs, let us leap on our horses, for by the faith I owe
to God and to my lord my father I will go seek for my pennon and dislodge them this same night.'
Knights and squires that heard him agreed thereto and were joyous, and every man made him ready.

The same evening the bishop of Durham came thither with a good company, for he heard at Durham
how the Scots were before Newcastle and how that the lord Percy's sons with other lords and
knights should fight with the Scots: therefore the bishop of Durham to come to the rescue had
assembled up all the country and so was coming to Newcastle. But sir Henry Percy would not
abide his coming, for he had with him six hundred spears, knights and squires, and an eight
thousand footmen. They thought that sufficient number to fight with the Scots, if they were
not but three hundred spears and three thousand of other. Thus they departed from Newcastle
after dinner and set forth in good order, and took the same way as the Scots had gone and rode
to Otterburn, a seven little leagues from thence and fair way, but they could not ride fast
because of their foot-men. And when the Scots had supped and some laid down to their rest,
and were weary of travailing and assaulting of the castle all that day, and thought to rise
early in the morning in cool of the day to give a new assault, therewith suddenly the Englishmen
came on them and entered into the lodgings, weening it had been the masters' lodgings, and
therein were but varlets and servants. Then the Englishmen cried, 'Percy, Percy!' and entered
into the lodgings, and ye know well where such affray is noise is soon raised: and it fortuned
well for the Scots, for when they saw the Englishmen came to wake them, then the lord sent
a certain of their servants of foot-men to scrimmish with the Englishmen at the entry of the
lodgings, and in the mean time they armed and apparelled them, every man under his banner and
under his captain's pennon. The night was far on, but the moon shone so bright as an it had
been in a manner day. It was in the month of August and the weather fair and temperate.

Thus the Scots were drawn together and without any noise departed from their lodgings and went
about a little mountain, which was greatly for their advantage. For all the day before they
had well advised the place and said among themselves: 'If the Englishmen come on us suddenly,
then we will do thus and thus, for it is a jeopardous thing in the night if men of war enter
into our lodgings. If they do, then we will draw to such a place, and thereby other we shall
win or lose.' When the Englishmen entered into the field, at the first they soon overcame the
varlets, and as they entered further in, always they found new men to busy them and to scrimmish
with them. Then suddenly came the Scots from about the mountain and set on the Englishmen or
they were ware, and cried their cries; whereof the Englishmen were sore astonied. Then they
cried 'Percy!' and the other party cried 'Douglas!'

There began a cruel battle and at the first encounter many were overthrown of both parties;
and because the Englishmen were a great number and greatly desired to vanquish their enemies,
and rested at their pace[1] and greatly did put aback the Scots, so that the Scots were near
discomfited. Then the earl James Douglas, who was young and strong and of great desire to get
praise and grace, and was willing to deserve to have it, and cared for no pain nor travail,
came forth with his banner and cried, 'Douglas, Douglas!' and sir Henry Percy and sir Ralph
his brother, who had great indignation against the earl Douglas because he had won the pennon
of their arms at the barriers before Newcastle, came to that part and cried, 'Percy!' Their
two banners met and their men: there was a sore fight: the Englishmen were so strong and fought
so valiantly that they reculed the Scots back. There were two valiant knights of Scots under
the banner of the earl Douglas, called sir Patrick of Hepbourn and sir Patrick his son. They
acquitted themselves that day valiantly: the earl's banner had been won, an they had not been:
they defended it so valiantly and in the rescuing thereof did such feats of arms, that it was
greatly to their recommendation and to their heirs' for ever after.

      [1] In French, 'ilz se arresterent,' without 'and.'

It was shewed me by such as had been at the same battle, as well by knights and squires of
England as of Scotland, at the house of the earl of Foix,--for anon after this battle was done
I met at Orthez two squires of England called John of Chateauneuf and John of Cantiron; also
when I returned to Avignon I found also there a knight and a squire of Scotland; I knew them
and they knew me by such tokens as I shewed them of their country, for I, author of this book,
in my youth had ridden nigh over all the realm of Scotland, and I was as then a fifteen days
in the house of earl William Douglas, father to the same earl James, of whom I spake of now,
in a castle of five leagues from Edinburgh in the country of Dalkeith;[2] the same time I saw
there this earl James, a fair young child, and a sister of his called the lady Blanche,--and
I was informed by both these parties[3] how this battle was as sore a battle fought as lightly
hath been heard of before of such a number; and I believe it well, for Englishmen on the one
party and Scots on the other party are good men of war, for when they meet there is a hard
fight without sparing, there is no ho between them as long as spears, swords, axes or daggers
will endure, but lay on each upon other, and when they be well beaten[4] and that the one party
hath obtained the victory, they then glorify so in their deeds of arms and are so joyful, that
such as be taken they shall be ransomed or they go out of the field, so that shortly each of
them is so content with other that at their departing-courteously they will say, 'God thank
you'; but in fighting one with another there is no play nor sparing, and this is true, and
that shall well appear by this said rencounter, for it was as valiantly foughten as could be
devised, as ye shall hear.

      [2] 'Which is called in the country Dalkeith.' The French has
      'que on nomme au pays Dacquest,' of which the translator makes
      'in the countrey of Alquest.'

      [3] 'By both sides,' i.e. Scotch and English.

      [4] 'When they have well fought.'

HOW THE EARL JAMES DOUGLAS BY HIS VALIANTNESS ENCOURAGED HIS MEN, WHO WERE RECULED AND IN A
MANNER DISCOMFITED, AND IN HIS SO DOING HE WAS WOUNDED TO DEATH

Knights and squires were of good courage on both parties to fight valiantly: cowards there
had no place, but hardiness reigned with goodly feats of arms, for knights and squires were
so joined together at hand strokes, that archers had no place of nother party. There the Scots
shewed great hardiness and fought merrily with great desire of honour: the Englishmen were
three to one: howbeit, I say not but Englishmen did nobly acquit themselves, for ever the Englishmen
had rather been slain or taken in the place than to fly. Thus, as I have said, the banners
of Douglas and Percy and their men were met each against other, envious who should win the
honour of that journey. At the beginning the Englishmen were so strong that they reculed back
their enemies: then the earl Douglas, who was of great heart and high of enterprise, seeing
his men recule back, then to recover the place and to shew knightly valour he took his axe
in both his hands, and entered so into the press that he made himself way in such wise, that
none durst approach near him, and he was so well armed that he bare well off such strokes as
he received.[1] Thus he went ever forward like a hardy Hector, willing alone to conquer the
field and to discomfit his enemies: but at last he was encountered with three spears all at
once, the one strake him on the shoulder, the other on the breast and the stroke glinted down
to his belly, and the third strake him in the thigh, and sore hurt with all three strokes,
so that he was borne perforce to the earth and after that he could not be again relieved. Some
of his knights and squires followed him, but not all, for it was night, and no light but by
the shining of the moon. The Englishmen knew well they had borne one down to the earth, but
they wist not who it was; for if they had known that it had been the earl Douglas, they had
been thereof so joyful and so proud that the victory had been theirs. Nor also the Scots knew
not of that adventure till the end of the battle; for if they had known it, they should have
been so sore despaired and discouraged that they would have fled away. Thus as the earl Douglas
was felled to the earth, he was stricken into the head with an axe, and another stroke through
the thigh: the Englishmen passed forth and took no heed of him: they thought none otherwise
but that they had slain a man of arms. On the other part the earl George de la March and of
Dunbar fought right valiantly and gave the Englishmen much ado, and cried, 'Follow Douglas,'
and set on the sons of Percy: also earl John of Moray with his banner and men fought valiantly
and set fiercely on the Englishmen, and gave them so much to do that they wist not to whom
to attend.

      [1] 'No man was so well armed that he did not fear the great
      strokes which he gave.'

HOW IN THIS BATTLE SIR RALPH PERCY WAS SORE HURT AND TAKEN PRISONER BY A SCOTTISH KNIGHT

Of all the battles and encounterings that I have made mention of herebefore in all this history,
great or small, this battle that I treat of now was one of the sorest and best foughten without
cowardice or faint hearts. For there was nother knight nor squire but that did his devoir and
fought hand to hand: this battle was like the battle of Becherel,[1] the which was valiantly
fought and endured. The earl of Northumberland's sons, sir Henry and sir Ralph Percy, who were
chief sovereign captains, acquitted themselves nobly, and sir Ralph Percy entered in so far
among his enemies that he was closed in and hurt, and so sore handled that his breath was so
short, that he was taken prisoner by a knight of the earl of Moray's called sir John Maxwell.
In the taking the Scottish knight demanded what he was, for it was in the night, so that he
knew him not, and sir Ralph was so sore overcome and bled fast, that at last he said: 'I am
Ralph Percy.' Then the Scot said: 'Sir Ralph, rescue or no rescue I take you for my prisoner:
I am Maxwell.' 'Well,' quoth sir Ralph, 'I am content: but then take heed to me, for I am sore
hurt, my hosen and my greaves are full of blood,' Then the knight saw by him the earl Moray
and said: 'Sir, here I deliver to you sir Ralph Percy as prisoner; but, sir, let good heed
be taken to him, for he is sore hurt.' The earl was joyful of these words and said: 'Maxwell,
thou hast well won thy spurs.' Then he delivered sir Ralph Percy to certain of his men, and
they stopped and wrapped his wounds: and still the battle endured, not knowing who had as then
the better, for there were many taken and rescued again that came to no knowledge.

      [1] Or, according to another reading, 'Cocherel.'

Now let us speak of the young James earl of Douglas, who did marvels in arms or he was beaten
down. When he was overthrown, the press was great about him, so that he could not relieve,
for with an axe he had his death's wound. His men followed him as near as they could, and there
came to him sir James Lindsay his cousin and sir John and sir Walter Sinclair and other knights
and squires. And by him was a gentle knight of his, who followed him all the day, and a chaplain
of his, not like a priest but like a valiant man of arms, for all that night he followed the
earl with a good axe in his hands and still scrimmished about the earl thereas he lay, and
reculed back some of the Englishmen with great strokes that he gave. Thus he was found fighting
near to his master, whereby he had great praise, and thereby the same year he was made archdeacon
of Aberdeen. This priest was called sir William of North Berwick: he was a tall man and a hardy
and was sore hurt. When these knights came to the earl, they found him in an evil case and
a knight of his lying by him called sir Robert Hart: he had a fifteen wounds in one place and
other. Then sir John Sinclair demanded of the earl how he did. 'Right evil, cousin,' quoth
the earl, 'but thanked be God there hath been but a few of mine ancestors that hath died in
their beds: but, cousin, I require you think to revenge me, for I reckon myself but dead, for
my heart fainteth oftentimes. My cousin Walter and you, I pray you raise up again my banner
which lieth on the ground, and my squire Davie Collemine slain: but, sirs, shew nother to friend
nor foe in what case ye see me in; for if mine enemies knew it, they would rejoice, and our
friends discomforted.' The two brethren of Sinclair and sir James Lindsay did as the earl had
desired them and raised up again his banner and cried 'Douglas!' Such as were behind and heard
that cry drew together and set on their enemies valiantly and reculed back the Englishmen and
many overthrown, and so drave the Englishmen back beyond the place whereas the earl lay, who
was by that time dead, and so came to the earl's banner, the which sir John Sinclair held in
his hands, and many good knights and squires of Scotland about him, and still company drew
to the cry of 'Douglas.' Thither came the earl Moray with his banner well accompanied, and
also the earl de la March and of Dunbar, and when they saw the Englishmen recule and their
company assembled together, they renewed again the battle and gave many hard and sad strokes.

HOW THE SCOTS WON THE BATTLE AGAINST THE ENGLISHMEN BESIDE OTTERBURN, AND THERE WAS TAKEN PRISONERS
SIR HENRY AND SIR RALPH PERCY, AND HOW AN ENGLISH SQUIRE WOULD NOT YIELD HIM, NO MORE WOULD
A SCOTTISH SQUIRE, AND SO DIED BOTH; AND HOW THE BISHOP OF DURHAM AND HIS COMPANY WERE DISCOMFITED
AMONG THEMSELVES

To say truth, the Englishmen were sorer travailed than the Scots, for they came the same day
from Newcastle-upon-Tyne, a six English miles, and went a great pace to the intent to find
the Scots, which they did; so that by their fast going they were near out of breath, and the
Scots were fresh and well rested, which greatly availed them when time was of their business:
for in the last scrimmish they reculed back the Englishmen in such wise, that after that they
could no more assemble together, for the Scots passed through their battles. And it fortuned
that sir Henry Percy and the lord of Montgomery, a valiant knight of Scotland, fought together
hand to hand right valiantly without letting of any other, for every man had enough to do.
So long they two fought that per force of arms sir Henry Percy was taken prisoner by the said
lord of Montgomery.

The knights and squires of Scotland, as sir Marc Adreman,[1] sir Thomas Erskine, sir William,
sir James and sir Alexander Lindsay, the lord of Fenton, sir John of Saint-Moreaulx,[2] sir
Patrick of Dunbar, sir John and sir Walter Sinclair, sir John Maxwell, sir Guy Stuart, sir
John Haliburton, sir Alexander Ramsay, Robert Collemine[3] and his two sons John and Robert;
who were there made knights, and a hundred knights and squires that I cannot name, all these
right valiantly did acquit themselves. And on the English party, before that the lord Percy
was taken and after, there fought valiantly sir Ralph Lumley, sir Matthew Redman, sir Thomas
Ogle, sir Thomas Gray, sir Thomas Helton, sir Thomas Abingdon, sir John Lilleburn, sir William
Walsingham, the baron of Helton, sir John of Colpedich,[4] the seneschal of York and divers
other footmen. Whereto should I write long process? This was a sore battle and well foughten;
and as fortune is always changeable, though the Englishmen were more in number than the Scots
and were right valiant men of war and well expert, and that at the first front they reculed
back the Scots, yet finally the Scots obtained the place and victory, and all the foresaid
Englishmen taken, and a hundred more, saving sir Matthew Redman, captain of Berwick, who when
he knew no remedy nor recoverance, and saw his company fly from the Scots and yielded them
on every side, then he took his horse and departed to save himself.

      [1] Perhaps 'Malcolm Drummond.'

      [2] The true reading seems to be 'Sandilands.'

      [3] Perhaps 'Coningham.'

      [4] Either 'Copeland' or 'Copeldike.'

The same season about the end of this discomfiture there was an English squire called Thomas
Waltham, a goodly and a valiant man, and that was well seen, for of all that night he would
nother fly nor yet yield him. It was said he had made a vow at a feast in England, that the
first time that ever he saw Englishmen and Scots in battle, he would so do his devoir to his
power, in such wise that either he would be reputed for the best doer on both sides or else
to die in the pain. He was called a valiant and a hardy man and did so much by his prowess,
that under the banner of the earl of Moray he did such valiantness in arms, that the Scots
had marvel thereof, and so was slain in fighting: the Scots would gladly have taken him alive,
but he would never yield, he hoped ever to have been rescued. And with him there was a Scottish
squire slain, cousin to the king of Scots, called Simon Glendowyn; his death was greatly complained
of the Scots.

This battle was fierce and cruel till it came to the end of the discomfiture; but when the
Scots saw the Englishmen recule and yield themselves, then the Scots were courteous and set
them to their ransom, and every man said to his prisoner: 'Sirs, go and unarm you and take
your ease; I am your master:' and so made their prisoners as good cheer as though they had
been brethren, without doing to them any damage. The chase endured a five English miles, and
if the Scots had been men enow, there had none scaped, but other they had been taken or slain.
And if Archambault Douglas and the earl of Fife, the earl Sutherland and other of the great
company who were gone towards Carlisle had been there, by all likelihood they had taken the
bishop of Durham and the town of Newcastle-upon-Tyne. I shall shew you how. The same evening
that the Percies departed from Newcastle, as ye have heard before, the bishop of Durham with
the rearband came to Newcastle and supped: and as he sat at the table, he had imagination in
himself how he did not acquit himself well to see the Englishmen in the field and he to be
within the town. Incontinent he caused the table to be taken away and commanded to saddle his
horses and to sown the trumpets, and called up men in the town to arm themselves and to mount
on their horses, and foot-men to order themselves to depart. And thus every man departed out
of the town to the number of seven thousand, two thousand on horseback and five thousand afoot;
they took their way toward Otterburn, whereas the battle had been. And by that time they had
gone two mile[5] from Newcastle tidings came to them how their men were fighting with the Scots.
Therewith the bishop rested there, and incontinent came more flying fast, that they were out
of breath. Then they were demanded how the matter went. They answered and said: 'Right evil;
we be all discomfited: here cometh the Scots chasing of us.' These tidings troubled the Englishmen,
and began to doubt. And again the third time men came flying as fast as they might. When the
men of the bishopric of Durham heard of these evil tidings, they were abashed in such wise
that they brake their array, so that the bishop could not hold together the number of five
hundred. It was thought that if the Scots had followed them in any number, seeing that it was
night, that in the entering into the town, and the Englishmen so abashed, the town had been won.

      [5] The word 'lieue' is translated 'mile' throughout.

The bishop of Durham, being in the field, had good will to have succoured the Englishmen and
recomforted his men as much as he could; but he saw his own men fly as well as other. Then
he demanded counsel of sir William Lucy and of sir Thomas Clifford and of other knights, what
was best to do. These knights for their honour would give him no counsel; for they thought
to return again and do nothing should sown greatly to their blame, and to go forth might be
to their great damage; and so stood still and would give none answer, and the longer they stood,
the fewer they were, for some still stale away. Then the bishop said: 'Sirs, all things considered,
it is none honour to put all in peril, nor to make of one evil damage twain. We hear how our
company be discomfited, and we cannot remedy it: for to go to recover them, we know not with
whom nor with what number we shall meet. Let us return fair and easily for this night to Newcastle,
and to-morrow let us draw together and go look on our enemies.' Every man answered: 'As God
will, so be it.' Therewith they returned to Newcastle. Thus a man may consider the great default
that is in men that be abashed and discomfited: for if they had kept them together and have
turned again such as fled, they had discomfited the Scots. This was the opinion of divers;
and because they did not thus, the Scots had the victory.

HOW SIR MATTHEW REDMEN DEPARTED FROM THE BATTLE TO SAVE HIMSELF; AND HOW SIR JAMES LINDSAY
WAS TAKEN PRISONER BY THE BISHOP OF DURHAM; AND HOW AFTER THE BATTLE SCURRERS WERE SENT FORTH
TO DISCOVER THE COUNTRY

I shall shew you of sir Matthew Redman, who was on horseback to save himself, for he alone
could not remedy the matter. At his departing sir James Lindsay was near to him and saw how
sir Matthew departed, and this sir James, to win honour, followed in chase sir Matthew Redman,
and came so near him that he might have striken him with his spear, if he had list. Then he
said: 'Ah, sir knight, turn; it is a shame thus to fly: I am James of Lindsay: if ye will not
turn, I shall strike you on the back with my spear.' Sir Matthew spake no word, but strake
his horse with the spurs sorer than he did before. In this manner he chased him more than three
miles, and at last sir Matthew Redman's horse foundered and fell under him. Then he stept forth
on the earth and drew out his sword, and took courage to defend himself; and the Scot thought
to have stricken him on the breast, but sir Matthew Redman swerved from the stroke, and the
spear-point entered into the earth. Then sir Matthew strake asunder the spear with his sword;
and when sir James Lindsay saw how he had lost his spear, he cast away the truncheon and lighted
afoot, and took a little battle-axe that he carried at his back and handled it with his one
hand quickly and deliverly, in the which feat Scots be well expert, and then he set at sir
Matthew and he defended himself properly. Thus they tourneyed together, one with an axe and
the other with a sword, a long season, and no man to let them. Finally sir James Lindsay gave
the knight such strokes and held him so short, that he was put out of breath in such wise that
he yielded himself, and said: 'Sir James Lindsay, I yield me to you.' 'Well,' quoth he, 'and
I receive you, rescue or no rescue,' 'I am content,' quoth Redman, 'so ye deal with me like
a good companion.' 'I shall not fail that,' quoth Lindsay, and so put up his sword. 'Well,
sir,' quoth Redman, 'what will you now that I shall do? I am your prisoner, ye have conquered
me. I would gladly go again to Newcastle, and within fifteen days I shall come to you into
Scotland, whereas ye shall assign me.' 'I am content,' quoth Lindsay: 'ye shall promise by
your faith to present yourself within this three weeks at Edinboro, and wheresoever ye go,
to repute yourself my prisoner,' All this sir Matthew sware and promised to fulfil. Then each
of them took their horses and took leave each of other. Sir James returned, and his intent
was to go to his own company the same way that he came, and sir Matthew Redman to Newcastle.

Sir James Lindsay could not keep the right way as he came: it was dark and a mist, and he had
not ridden half a mile, but he met face to face with the bishop of Durham and more than five
hundred Englishmen with him. He might well escaped if he had would, but he supposed it had
been his own company, that had pursued the Englishmen. When he was among them, one demanded
of him what he was. 'I am,' quoth he, 'sir James Lindsay,' The bishop heard those words and
stept to him and said: 'Lindsay, ye are taken: yield ye to me.' 'Who be you?' quoth Lindsay.
'l am,' quoth he, 'the bishop of Durham.' 'And from whence come you, sir?' quoth Lindsay. 'I
come from the battle,' quoth the bishop, 'but I struck never a stroke there. I go back to Newcastle
for this night, and ye shall go with me,' 'I may not choose,' quoth Lindsay, 'sith ye will
have it so. I have taken and I am taken; such is the adventures of arms.' 'Whom have ye taken?'
quoth the bishop. 'Sir,' quoth he, 'I took in the chase sir Matthew Redman.' 'And where is
he?' quoth the bishop. 'By my faith, sir, he is returned to Newcastle: he desired me to trust
him on his faith for three weeks, and so have I done,' 'Well,' quoth the bishop, 'let us go
to Newcastle, and there ye shall speak with him.' Thus they rode to Newcastle together, and
sir James Lindsay was prisoner to the bishop of Durham.

Under the banner of the earl de la March and of Dunbar was taken a squire of Gascoyne, called
John of Chateauneuf, and under the banner of the earl of Moray was taken his companion John
de Camiron. Thus the field was clean avoided, or the day appeared. The Scots drew together
and took guides and sent out scurrers to see if any men were in the way from Newcastle, to
the intent that they would not be troubled in their lodgings; wherein they did wisely, for
when the bishop of Durham was come again to Newcastle and in his lodging, he was sore pensive
and wist not what to say nor do; for he heard say how his cousins the Percies were slain or
taken, and all the knights that were with them. Then he sent for all the knights and squires
that were in the town; and when they were come, he demanded of them if they should leave the
matter in that case, and said: 'Sirs, we shall bear great blame if we thus return without looking
on our enemies,' Then they concluded by the sun-rising every man to be armed, and on horseback
and afoot to depart out of the town and to go to Otterburn to fight with the Scots. This was
warned through the town by a trumpet, and every man armed them and assembled before the bridge,
and by the sun-rising they departed by the gate towards Berwick and took the way towards Otterburn
to the number of ten thousand, what afoot and a-horseback. They were not gone past two mile
from Newcastle, when the Scots were signified that the bishop of Durham was coming to themward
to fight: this they knew by their spies, such as they had set in the fields.

After that sir Matthew Redman was returned to Newcastle and had shewed to divers how he had
been taken prisoner by sir James Lindsay, then it was shewed him how the bishop of Durham had
taken the said sir James Lindsay and how that he was there in the town as his prisoner. As
soon as the bishop was departed, sir Matthew Redman went to the bishop's lodging to see his
master, and there he found him in a study, lying in a window,[1] and said: 'What, sir James
Lindsay, what make you here?' Then sir James came forth of the study to him and gave him good
morrow, and said: 'By my faith, sir Matthew, fortune hath brought me hither; for as soon as
I was departed from you, I met by chance the bishop of Durham, to whom I am prisoner, as ye
be to me. I believe ye shall not need to come to Edinboro to me to make your finance: I think
rather we shall make an exchange one for another, if the bishop be so content.' 'Well, sir,'
quoth Redman, 'we shall accord right well together, ye shall dine this day with me: the bishop
and our men be gone forth to fight with your men, I cannot tell what shall fall, we shall know
at their return.' 'I am content to dine with you,' quoth Lindsay. Thus these two knights dined
together in Newcastle.

      [1] Or rather, 'very pensive leaning against a window,' and
      afterwards the expression 'came forth of the study to him'
      should be 'broke off his thought and came towards him.'

When the knights of Scotland were informed how the bishop of Durham came on them with ten thousand
men, they drew to council to see what was best for them to do, other to depart or else to abide
the adventure. All things considered, they concluded to abide, for they said they could not
be in a better nor a stronger place than they were in already; they had many prisoners and
they could not carry them away, if they should have departed; and also they had many of their
men hurt and also some of their prisoners, whom they thought they would not leave behind them.
Thus they drew together and ordered so their field, that there was no entry but one way, and
they set all their prisoners together and made them to promise how that, rescue or no rescue,
they should be their prisoners. After that they made all their minstrels to blow up all at
once and made the greatest revel of the world. Lightly it is the usage of Scots, that when
they be thus assembled together in arms, the footmen beareth about their necks horns in manner
like hunters, some great, some small, and of all sorts, so that when they blow all at once,
they make such a noise, that it may be heard nigh four miles off: thus they do to abash their
enemies and to rejoice themselves. When the bishop of Durham with his banner and ten thousand
men with him were approached, within a league, then the Scots blew their horns in such wise,
that it seemed that all the devils in hell had been among them, so that such as heard them
and knew not of their usage were sore abashed. This blowing and noise endured a long space
and then ceased: and by that time the Englishmen were within less than a mile. Then the Scots
began to blow again and made a great noise, and as long endured as it did before. Then the
bishop approached with his battle well ranged in good order and came within the sight of the
Scots, as within two bow-shot or less: then the Scots blew again their horns a long space.
The bishop stood still to see what the Scots would do and aviewed them well and saw how they
were in a strong ground greatly to their advantage. Then the bishop took counsel what was best
for him to do; but all things well advised, they were not in purpose to enter in among the
Scots to assail them, but returned without doing of anything, for they saw well they might
rather lose than win.

When the Scots saw the Englishmen recule and that they should have no battle, they went to
their lodgings and made merry, and then ordained to depart from thence. And because that sir
Ralph Percy was sore hurt, he desired of his master that he might return to Newcastle or into
some place, whereas it pleased him unto such time as he were whole of his hurts, promising,
as soon as he were able to ride, to return into Scotland, other to Edinboro or into any other
place appointed. The earl of March, under whom he was taken, agreed thereto and delivered him
a horse litter and sent him away; and by like covenant divers other knights and squires were
suffered to return and took term other to return or else to pay their finance, such as they
were appointed unto. It was shewed me by the information of the Scots, such as had been at
this said battle that was between Newcastle and Otterburn in the year of our Lord God a thousand
three hundred fourscore and eight, the nineteenth day of August, how that there were taken
prisoners of the English party a thousand and forty men, one and other, and slain in the field
and in the chase eighteen hundred and forty, and sore hurt more than a thousand: and of the
Scots there were a hundred slain, and taken in the chase more than two hundred; for as the
Englishmen fled, when they saw any advantage they returned again and fought: by that means
the Scots were taken and none otherwise. Every man may well consider that it was a well fought
field, when there were so many slain and taken on both parties.

HOW THE SCOTS DEPARTED AND CARRIED WITH THEM THE EARL DOUGLAS DEAD, AND BURIED HIM IN THE ABBEY
OF MELROSE; AND HOW SIR ARCHAMBAULT DOUGLAS AND HIS COMPANY DEPARTED FROM BEFORE CARLISLE AND
RETURNED INTO SCOTLAND

After this battle thus finished, every man returned,[1] and the earl Douglas' dead body chested
and laid in a chare, and with him sir Robert Hart and Simon Glendowyn, then they prepared to
depart: so they departed and led with them sir Henry Percy and more than forty knights of England,
and took the way to the abbey of Melrose. At their departing they set fire in their lodgings,
and rode all the day, and yet lay that night in the English ground: none denied them. The next
day they dislodged early in the morning and so came that day to Melrose. It is an abbey of
black monks on the border between both realms. There they rested and buried the earl James
Douglas. The second day after his obsequy was done reverently, and on his body laid a tomb
of stone and his banner hanging over him. Whether there were as then any more earls of Douglas,
to whom the land returned, or not, I cannot tell; for I, sir John Froissart, author of the
book, was in Scotland in the earl's castle of Dalkeith, living earl William, at which time
he had two children, a son and a daughter; but after there were many of the Douglases, for
I have seen a five brethren, all squires, bearing the name of Douglas, in the king of Scotland's
house, David; they were sons to a knight in Scotland called sir James Douglas, and they bare
in their arms gold, three oreilles gules, but as for the heritage, I know not who had it: as
for sir Archambault Douglas, of whom I have spoken before in this history in divers places,
who was a valiant knight, and greatly redoubted of the Englishmen, he was but a bastard.

      [1] That is, 'After the battle was over and every man had
      returned,' but it should be, 'After all this was done and
      everything was gathered together.'

When these Scots had been at Melrose abbey and done there all that they came thither for, then
they departed each from other and went into their own countries, and such as had prisoners,
some led them away with them and some were ransomed and suffered to return. Thus the Englishmen
found the Scots right courteous and gentle in their deliverance and ransom, so that they were
well content. This was shewed me in the country of Bearn in the earl of Foix's house by a knight
named John of Chateauneuf, who was taken prisoner at the same journey under the banner of the
earl of March and Dunbar: and he greatly praised the said earl, for he suffered him to pass
in manner as he desired himself.

Thus these men of war of Scotland departed, and ransomed their prisoners as soon as they might
right courteously, and so returned little and little into their own countries. And it was shewed
me and I believe it well, that the Scots had by reason of that journey two hundred thousand
franks for ransoming of prisoners: for sith the battle that was before Stirling in Scotland,
whereas sir Robert of Bruce, sir William Douglas, sir Robert Versy, sir Simon Fraser and other
Scots chased the Englishmen three days, they never had journey so profitable nor so honourable
for them, as this was. When tidings came to the other company of the Scots that were beside
Carlisle, how their company had distressed the Englishmen beside Otterburn, they were greatly
rejoiced, and displeased in their minds that they had not been there. Then they determined
to dislodge and to draw into their own countries, seeing their other company were withdrawn.
Thus they dislodged and entered into Scotland.

Now let us leave to speak of the Scots and of the Englishmen for this time, and let us return
to the young Charles of France, who with a great people went into Almaine, to bring the duke
of Gueldres to reason.

When the French king and all his army were past the river of Meuse at the bridge of Morsay,
they took the way of Ardennes and of Luxembourg, and always the pioneers were before, beating
woods and bushes and making the ways plain. The duke of Juliers and his country greatly doubted
the coming of the French king, for they knew well they should have the first assault and bear
the first burden: and the land of Juliers is a plain country; in one day the men of war should
do much damage there, and destroy and waste all, except the castles and good towns. Thus the
French king entered into the country of Luxembourg and came to an abbey, whereas Wenceslas
sometime duke of Brabant was buried. There the king tarried two days: then he departed and
took the way through Bastogne, and lodged within a league whereas the duchess of Brabant lay.
She sent word of her being there to the duke of Burgoyne, and he brought her into the field
to speak with the king, who received her right honourably, and there communed together. Then
the duchess returned to Bastogne, and thither she was conveyed with sir John of Vienne and
sir Guy of Tremouille; and the next day the king went forward, approaching to the land of his
enemies, and came to the entering into Almaine, on the frontiers of the duchy of Juliers. But
or he came so far forward, Arnold bishop of Liege had been with the king and had greatly entreated
for the duke of Juliers, that the king should not be miscontent with him, though he were father
to the duke of Gueldres; for he excused him of the defiance that his son had made, affirming
how it was not by his knowledge nor consent, wherefore, he said, it were pity that the father
should bear the default of the son. This excuse was not sufficient to the king nor to his uncles:
for the intent of the king and his council was, without the duke of Juliers would come and
make other manner of excuse, and to yield himself to the king's pleasure, his country should
be the first that should bear the burden. Then the bishop of Liege and the lords of Hesbaing
and the councils of the good towns offered to the king and his council wholly the bishopric
of Liege for his army to pass and repass paying for their expenses, and to rest and refresh
them there as long as it pleased them. The king thanked them, and so did his uncles, and would
not refuse their offer, for he knew not what need he should have after.

THE HOLY GRAIL FROM THE BOOK OF KING ARTHUR

BY

SIR THOMAS MALORY

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

The earliest extant form of the story of the Holy Grail is the French metrical romance of "Perceval"
or "Le Conte du Graal" of Chrétien de Troies, written about 1175. Chrétien died leaving the
poem unfinished, and it was continued by three other authors till it reached the vast size
of 63,000 lines. The religious signification of the Grail is supposed to have been attached
to it early in the thirteenth century by Robert de Boron; and, perhaps a little later, in the
French prose "Quest of the Holy Grail," Galahad takes the place of Perceval as the hero of
the story. The later history of the various versions of the legend is highly intricate, and
in many points uncertain. It was from a form of it embodied in the French prose "Lancelot"
that Sir Thomas Malory drew the chapters of his "Morte d'Arthur" which are here reprinted,
and which, more than the earlier versions, are the source from which the legend has passed
into modern English poetry.

Until a few years ago Malory himself was little more than a name, our information about him
being limited to the statement in Caxton's edition of the "Morte d'Arthur" that he was the
author. It now appears probable, however, that Sir Thomas Malory was an English knight born
about 1400, of an old Warwickshire family. He served in the French wars under Richard Beauchamp,
Earl of Warwick, "whom all Europe recognized as embodying the knightly ideal of the age" and
may well have owed his enthusiasm for chivalry to his association with this distinguished nobleman.
He died in 1471.

Malory's book is a compilation from French and English sources. These are chosen without much
discrimination, and put together without great skill in arrangement. But the author's whole-hearted
enthusiasm for chivalrous ideals and the noble simplicity and fine rhythm of his prose have
combined to give his work a unique place in English literature. In it the age of chivalry is
summed up and closed. It is not without reason that the date of its publication by Caxton,
1485, should be conventionally accepted as the end of the Middle Ages in England. Romance had
passed under the printing press, and a new age had begun.

THE HOLY GRAIL

BEING BOOKS XIII, XIV, XV, XVI and XVII OF THE BOOK OF KING ARTHUR AND OF HIS NOBLE KNIGHTS
OF THE ROUND TABLE

THE THIRTEENTH BOOK. In the name of God, said Sir Galahad. Well, said King Bagdemagus, I wot
well that I am not the best knight of the world, but yet shall I essay to bear it. And so he
bare it out of the monastery; and then he said unto Sir Galahad: If it will please you I pray
you abide here still, till ye know how I shall speed. I shall abide you here, said Galahad.
For this fourteen year I never discovered one thing that I have used, and that may I now wyte
my shame and my misadventure. And then he told there that good man all his life. And then Sir
Launcelot repented him greatly.

Here leaveth of the history of syr launcelot. And here followeth of sir Percyvale de galys
which is the xiiii book. And here followeth of syre Launcelot, whiche is the fyftenth book.
No, said one of them, it shall be essayed.

Here leveth of the story of syr launcelot. And speke we of sir gawayne, the whiche is the xvi.
book. Right so alit a cloud betwixt them in likeness of a fire and a marvellous flame, that
both their two shields burnt.

And here followeth the sevententh book, whiche is of the noble Knyghte syre Galahad. So the
good man was fain when he saw he was a knight errant. Then he withdrew him aback right heavy.
Then they asked how it stood with him. And he went down upon gretys, and came nigh the tomb.
Sir, said he, I will as ye will.

Thus endeth thistory of the Sancgreal, that was breuely drawen oute of Frensshe in to Englysshe,
the whiche is a story cronycled for one of the truest and the holyest that is in thys world,
the which is the xvii. book. Raphael Holinshed had charge of the histories of England, Scotland,
and Ireland, the only part of the work ever published; and these were issued in 1577, and have
since been known as "Holinshed's Chronicles." From them Shakespeare drew most of the material
for his historical plays.

Among Holinshed's collaborators was one William Harrison, chaplain to Lord Cobham, and later
Rector of Radwinter in Essex and Canon of Windsor. To him was allotted the task of writing
the "Descriptions of Britain and England" from which the following chapters are drawn. He gathered
his facts from books, letters, maps, conversations, and, most important of all, his own observation
and experience; and he put them loosely together into what he calls "this foul frizzled treatise."
Yet, with all his modesty, he claims to "have had an especial eye to the truth of things";
and as a result we have in his pages the most vivid and detailed picture in existence of the
England into which Shakespeare was born.

In 1876 Dr. Furnivall condensed Harrison's chapters for the New Shakspere Society, and these
have since been reprinted by Mr. Lothrop Withington in the modern dress in which the most interesting
of them appear here. No apology is needed for thus selecting and rearranging, since in their
original form they were without unity, and formed part of a vast compilation.

Harrison's merit does not lie in the rich interest of his matter alone. He wrote a racy style
with a strong individual as well as Elizabethan flavor; and his personal comment upon the manners
of his time serves as a piquant sauce to the solid meat of his historical information.

A DESCRIPTION OF ELIZABETHAN ENGLAND

CHAPTER I

OF DEGREES OF PEOPLE IN THE COMMONWEALTH OF ELIZABETHAN ENGLAND

[1577, Book III., Chapter 4; 1587, Book II., Chapter 5.][1]

      [1] These references are to the first two editions of
      Holinshed's Chronicles. The modernization of the spelling,
      etc., follows that of Mr. L. Wilkington, whose notes are signed
      W.

We in England, divide our people commonly into four sorts, as gentlemen, citizens or burgesses,
yeomen, and artificers or labourers. Of gentlemen the first and chief (next the king) be the
prince, dukes, marquesses, earls, viscounts, and barons; and these are called gentlemen of
the greater sort, or (as our common usage of speech is) lords and noblemen: and next unto them
be knights, esquires, and, last of all, they that are simply called gentlemen. So that in effect
our gentlemen are divided into their conditions, whereof in this chapter I will make particular
rehearsal.

The title of prince doth peculiarly belong with us to the king's eldest son, who is called
Prince of Wales, and is the heir-apparent to the crown; as in France the king's eldest son
hath the title of Dauphin, and is named peculiarly Monsieur. So that the prince is so termed
of the Latin word Princeps, since he is (as I may call him) the chief or principal next the
king. The king's younger sons be but gentlemen by birth (till they have received creation or
donation from their father of higher estate, as to be either viscounts, earls, or dukes) and
called after their names, as Lord Henry, or Lord Edward, with the addition of the word Grace,
properly assigned to the king and prince, and now also by custom conveyed to dukes, archbishops,
and (as some say) to marquesses and their wives.[2]...

      [2] Here follow etymologies of the terms "Duke," "Marquess,"
      and "Baron."--W.

Unto this place I also refer our bishops, who are accounted honourable, called lords, and hold
the same room in the Parliament house with the barons, albeit for honour sake the right hand
of the prince is given unto them, and whose countenances in time past were much more glorious
than at this present it is, because those lusty prelates sought after earthly estimation and
authority with far more diligence than after the lost sheep of Christ, of which they had small
regard, as men being otherwise occupied and void of leisure to attend upon the same. Howbeit
in these days their estate remaineth no less reverend than before, and the more virtuous they
are that be of this calling the better are they esteemed with high and low. They retain also
the ancient name ("lord") still, although it be not a little impugned by such as love either
to hear of change of all things or can abide no superiors. For notwithstanding it be true that
in respect of function the office of the eldership[3] is equally distributed between the bishop
and the minister, yet for civil government's sake the first have more authority given unto
them by kings and princes, to the end that the rest may thereby be with more ease retained
within a limited compass of uniformity than otherwise they would be if each one were suffered
to walk in his own course. This also is more to be marvelled at, that very many call for an
alteration of their estate, crying to have the word "lord" abolished, their civil authority
taken from them, and the present condition of the church in other things reformed; whereas,
to say truly, few of them do agree upon form of discipline and government of the church succeedent,
wherein they resemble the Capuans (of whom Livy doth speak) in the slaughter of their senate.
Neither is it possible to frame a whole monarchy after the pattern of one town or city, or
to stir up such an exquisite face of the church as we imagine or desire, sith our corruption
is such that it will never yield to so great perfection; for that which is not able to be performed
in a private house will be much less be brought to pass in a commonwealth and kingdom, before
such a prince be found as Xenophon describeth, or such an orator as Tully hath devised.[4]...

      [3] 1 Sam. ii. 15; 1 Kings i. 7.--H.

      [4] Here follows a long paragraph on the character of the clergy
      which is more appropriate to the chapter on "The Church."--W.

Dukes, marquesses, earls, viscounts, and barons either be created of the prince or come to
that honour by being the eldest sons or highest in succession to their parents. For the eldest
son of a duke during his father's life is an earl, the eldest son of an earl is a baron, or
sometimes a viscount, according as the creation is. The creation I call the original donation
and condition of the honour given by the prince for good service done by the first ancestor,
with some advancement, which, with the title of that honour, is always given to him and his
heirs males only. The rest of the sons of the nobility by the rigour of the law be but esquires;
yet in common speech all dukes' and marquesses' sons and earls' eldest sons be called lords,
the which name commonly doth agree to none of lower degree than barons, yet by law and use
these be not esteemed barons.

The barony or degree of lords doth answer to the degree of senators of Rome (as I said) and
the title of nobility (as we used to call it in England) to the Roman Patricii. Also in England
no man is commonly created baron except he may dispend of yearly revenues a thousand pounds,
or so much as may fully maintain and bear out his countenance and port. But viscounts, earls,
marquesses, and dukes exceed them according to the proportion of their degree and honour. But
though by chance he or his son have less, yet he keepeth this degree: but if the decay be excessive,
and not able to maintain the honour (as Senatores Romani were amoti à senatu), so sometimes
they are not admitted to the upper house in the parliament, although they keep the name of
"lord" still, which cannot be taken from them upon any such occasion.

The most of these names have descended from the French invention, in whose histories we shall
read of them eight hundred years past.[5]...

      [5] Here follows a learned disquisition upon "Valvasors."--W.

Knights be not born, neither is any man a knight by succession, no, not the king or prince:
but they are made either before the battle, to encourage them the more to adventure and try
their manhood; or after the battle ended, as an advancement for their courage and prowess already
shewed, and then are they called Milites; or out of the wars for some great service done, or
for the singular virtues which do appear in them, and then are they named Equites Aurati, as
common custom intendeth. They are made either by the king himself, or by his commission and
royal authority given for the same purpose, or by his lieutenant in the wars.[6]...

      [6] Here follows a discourse upon Equites Aurati.--W.

Sometime diverse ancient gentlemen, burgesses, and lawyers are called unto knighthood by the
prince, and nevertheless refuse to take that state upon them, for which they are of custom
punished by a fine, that redoundeth unto his coffers, and (to say truth) is oftentimes more
profitable unto him than otherwise their service should be, if they did yield unto knighthood.
And this also is a cause wherefore there be many in England able to dispend a knight's living,
which never come unto that countenance, and by their own consents. The number of the knights
in Rome was also uncertain: and so is it of knights likewise, with us, as at the pleasure of
the prince. And whereas the Equites Romani had Equum Publicum of custom bestowed upon them,
the knights of England have not so, but bear their own charges in that also, as in other kind
of furniture, as armour meet for their defence and service. This nevertheless is certain, that
whoso may dispend forty pounds by the year of free land, either at the coronation of the king,
or marriage of his daughter, or time of his dubbing, may be informed unto the taking of that
degree, or otherwise pay the revenues of his land for one year, which is only forty pounds
by an old proportion, and so for a time be acquitted of that title.[7]...

      [7] Here is a description of dubbing a knight.--W.

At the coronation of a king or queen, there be other knights made with longer and more curious
ceremonies, called "knights of the bath." But howsoever one be dubbed or made knight, his wife
is by-and-by called "Madam," or "Lady," so well as the baron's wife: he himself having added
to his name in common appellation this syllable "Sir," which is the title whereby we call our
knights in England. His wife also of courtesy so long as she liveth is called "my lady," although
she happen to marry with a gentleman or man of mean calling, albeit that by the common law
she hath no such prerogative. If her first husband also be of better birth than her second,
though this latter likewise be a knight, yet in that she pretendeth a privilege to lose no
honour through courtesy yielded to her sex, she will be named after the most honourable or
worshipful of both, which is not seen elsewhere.

The other order of knighthood in England, and the most honourable, is that of the garter, instituted
by King Edward the Third, who, after he had gained many notable victories, taken King John
of France, and King James of Scotland (and kept them both prisoners in the Tower o£ London
at one time), expelled King Henry of Castille, the bastard, out of his realm, and restored
Don Pedro unto it (by the help of the Prince of Wales and Duke of Aquitaine, his eldest son,
called the Black Prince), he then invented this society of honour, and made a choice out of
his own realm and dominions, and throughout all Christendom of the best, most excellent, and
renowned persons in all virtues and honour, and adorned them with that title to be knights
of his order, giving them a garter garnished with gold and precious stones, to wear daily on
the left leg only; also a kirtle, gown, cloak, chaperon, collar, and other solemn and magnificent
apparel, both of stuff and fashion exquisite and heroical to wear at high feasts, and as to
so high and princely an order appertaineth....

The order of the garter therefore was devised in the time of King Edward the Third, and (as
some write) upon this occasion. The queen's majesty then living, being departed from his presence
the next way toward her lodging, he following soon after happened to find her garter, which
slacked by chance and so fell from her leg, unespied in the throng by such as attended upon
her. His grooms and gentlemen also passed by it, as disdaining to stoop and take up such a
trifle: but he, knowing the owner, commanded one of them to stay and reach it up to him. "Why,
and like your grace," saith a gentleman, "it is but some woman's garter that hath fallen from
her as she followed the queen's majesty." "Whatsoever it be," quoth the king, "take it up and
give it me." So when he had received the garter, he said to such as stood about him: "You,
my masters, do make small account of this bule garter here," and therewith held it out, "but,
if God lend me life for a few months, I will make the proudest of you all to reverence the
like." And even upon this slender occasion he gave himself to the devising of this order. Certes,
I have not read of anything that having had so simple a beginning hath grown in the end to
so great honour and estimation.[8]...

      [8] Long details are given of Garter history, very inaccurate,
      both here and in the last omitted passage.--W.

There is yet another order of knights In England called knights bannerets, who are made in
the field with the ceremony of cutting away the point of his pennant of arms, and making it
as it were a banner, so that, being before but a bachelor knight, he is now of an higher degree,
and allowed to display his arms in a banner, as barons do. Howbeit these knights are never
made but in the wars, the king's standard being unfolded.[9]...

      [9] Derivations of "Esquire" and "Gentleman" are given.--W.

Moreover, as the king doth dub knights, and createth the barons and higher degrees, so gentlemen
whose ancestors are not known to come in with William Duke of Normandy (for of the Saxon races
yet remaining we now make none accounted, much less of the British issue) do take their beginning
in England, after this manner in our times.

Whosoever studieth the laws of the realm, whoso abideth in the university (giving his mind
to his book), or professeth physic and the liberal sciences, or beside his service in the room
of a captain in the wars, or good counsel given at home, whereby his commonwealth is benefited,
can live without manual labour, and thereto is able and will bear the port, charge, and countenance
of a gentleman, he shall for money have a coat and arms bestowed upon him by heralds (who in
the charter of the same do of custom pretend antiquity and service, and many gay things), and
thereunto, being made so good cheap, be called master (which is the title that men give to
esquires and gentlemen), and reputed for a gentleman ever after, which is so much less to be
disallowed of for that the prince doth lose nothing by it, the gentleman being so much subject
to taxes and public payments as is the yeoman or husbandman, which he likewise doth bear the
gladlier for the saving of his reputation. Being called also to the wars (for with the government
of the commonwealth he meddleth little), whatsoever it cost him, he will both array and arm
himself accordingly, and shew the more manly courage, and all the tokens of the person which
he represented. No man hath hurt by it but himself, who peradventure will go in wider buskins
than his legs will bear, or, as our proverb saith, "now and then bear a bigger sail than his
boat is able to sustain."

Certes the making of new gentlemen bred great strife sometimes amongst the Romans, I mean when
those which were Novi homines were more allowed of for their virtues newly seen and shewed
than the old smell of ancient race, lately defaced by the cowardice and evil life of their
nephews and descendants, could make the other to be. But as envy hath no affinity with justice
and equity, so it forceth not what language the malicious do give out, against such as are
exalted for their wisdoms. This nevertheless is generally to be reprehended in all estates
of gentility, and which in short time will turn to the great ruin of our country, and that
is, the usual sending of noblemen's and mean gentlemen's sons into Italy, from whence they
bring home nothing but mere atheism, infidelity, vicious conversation, and ambitious and proud
behaviour, whereby it cometh to pass that they return far worse men than they went out. A gentleman
at this present is newly come out of Italy, who went thither an earnest Protestant; but coming
home he could say after this manner; "Faith and truth is to be kept where no loss or hindrance
of a future purpose is sustained by holding of the same; and forgiveness only to be shewed
when full revenge is made." Another no less forward than he, at his return from thence, could
add thus much: "He is a fool that maketh account of any religion, but more fool that will lose
any part of his wealth or will come in trouble for constant leaning to any; but if he yield
to lose his life for his possession, he is stark mad, and worthy to be taken for most fool
of all the rest." This gay booty got these gentlemen by going Into Italy; and hereby a man
may see what fruit is afterward to be looked for where such blossoms do appear. "I care not,"
saith a third, "what you talk to me of God, so as I may have the prince and the laws of the
realm on my side." Such men as this last are easily known; for they have learned in Italy to
go up and down also in England with pages at their heels finely apparelled, whose face and
countenance shall be such as sheweth the master not to be blind in his choice. But lest I should
offend too much, I pass over to say any more of these Italianates and their demeanour, which,
alas! is too open and manifest to the world, and yet not called into question.

Citizens and burgesses have next place to gentlemen, who be those that are free within the
cities, and are of some likely substance to bear office in the same. But these citizens or
burgesses are to serve the commonwealth in their cities and boroughs, or in corporate towns
where they dwell, and in the common assembly of the realm wherein our laws are made (for in
the counties they bear but little sway), which assembly is called the High Court of Parliament:
the ancient cities appoint four and the borough two burgesses to have voices in it, and give
their consent or dissent unto such things as pass, to stay there in the name of the city or
borough for which they are appointed.

In this place also are our merchants to be installed as amongst the citizens (although they
often change estate with gentlemen, as gentlemen do with them, by a mutual conversion of the
one into the other), whose number is so increased in these our days that their only maintenance
is the cause of the exceeding prices of foreign wares, which otherwise, when every nation was
permitted to bring in her own commodities, were far better, cheaper, and more plentifully to
be had. Of the want of our commodities here at home, by their great transportation of them
into other countries, I speak not, sith the matter will easily betray itself. Certes among
the Lacedæmonians it was found out that great numbers of merchants were nothing to the furtherance
of the state of the commonwealth: wherefore it is to be wished that the huge heap of them were
somewhat restrained, as also of our lawyers, so should the rest live more easily upon their
own, and few honest chapmen be brought to decay by breaking of the bankrupt. I do not deny
but that the navy of the land is in part maintained by their traffic, and so are the high prices
of wares kept up, now they have gotten the only sale of things upon pretence of better furtherance
of the commonwealth into their own hands: whereas in times past, when the strange bottoms were
suffered to come in, we had sugar for fourpence the pound, that now at the writing of this
Treatise is well worth half-a-crown; raisins or currants for a penny that now are holden at
sixpence, and sometimes at eightpence and tenpence the pound; nutmegs at twopence halfpenny
the ounce, ginger at a penny an ounce, prunes at halfpenny farthing, great raisins three pounds
for a penny, cinnamon at fourpence the ounce, cloves at twopence, and pepper at twelve and
sixteen pence the pound. Whereby we may see the sequel of things not always, but very seldom,
to be such as is pretended in the beginning. The wares that they carry out of the realm are
for the most part broad clothes and carsies[10] of all colours, likewise cottons, friezes,
rugs, tin, wool, our best beer, baize, bustian, mockadoes (tufted and plain), rash, lead, fells,
etc.: which, being shipped at sundry ports of our coasts, are borne from thence into all quarters
of the world, and there either exchanged for other wares or ready money, to the great gain
and commodity of our merchants. And whereas in times past their chief trade was into Spain,
Portugal, France, Flanders, Danske (Denmark), Norway, Scotland, and Ireland only, now in these
days, as men not contented with these journeys, they have sought out the East and West Indies,
and made now and then suspicious voyages, not only unto the Canaries and New Spain, but likewise
into Cathay, Muscovy, and Tartaria, and the regions thereabout, from whence (as they say) they
bring home great commodities. But alas! I see not by all their travel that the prices of things
are any whit abated. Certes this enormity (for so I do account of it) was sufficiently provided
for (Ann. 9 Edward III.) by a noble statute made in that behalf, but upon what occasion the
general execution thereof is stayed or not called on, in good sooth, I cannot tell. This only
I know, that every function and several vocation striveth with other, which of them should
have all the water of commodity run into her own cistern.

      [10] Kerseys.

Yeomen are those which by our law are called Legales homines, free men born English, and may
dispend of their own free land in yearly revenue to the sum of forty shillings sterling, or
six pounds as money goeth in our times. Some are of the opinion, by Cap. 2 Rich. 2 Ann. 20,
that they are the same which the Frenchmen call varlets, but, as that phrase is used in my
time, it is very unlikely to be so. The truth is that the word is derived from the Saxon term,
Zeoman, or Geoman, which signifieth (as I have read) a settled or staid man, such I mean as,
being married and of some years, betaketh himself to stay in the place of his abode for the
better maintenance of himself and his family, whereof the single sort have no regard, but are
likely to be still fleeting now hither now thither, which argueth want of stability in determination
and resolution of judgment, for the execution of things of any importance. This sort of people
have a certain pre-eminence, and more estimation than labourers and the common sort of artificers,
and these commonly live wealthily, keep good houses, and travel to get riches. They are also
for the most part farmers to gentlemen (in old time called Pagani, et opponuntur militibus,
and therefore Persius calleth himself Semipaganus), or at the leastwise artificers, and with
grazing, frequenting of markets, and keeping of servants (not idle servants, as the gentlemen
do, but such as get both their own and part of their masters' living), do come to great wealth,
insomuch that many of them are able and do buy the lands of unthrifty gentlemen, and often
setting their sons to the schools, to the universities, and to the Inns of the Court, or, otherwise
leaving them sufficient lands whereupon they may live without labour, do make them by those
means to become gentlemen. These were they that in times past made all France afraid. And albeit
they be not called "Master," as gentlemen are, or "Sir," as to knights appertaineth, but only
"John" and "Thomas," etc., yet have they been found to have done very good service.

The kings of England in foughten battles were wont to remain among them (who were their footmen)
as the French kings did amongst their horsemen, the prince thereby shewing where his chief
strength did consist.

The fourth and last sort of people in England are day-labourers, poor husbandmen, and some
retailers (which have no free land) copyholders, and all artificers, as tailors, shoemakers,
carpenters, brickmakers, masons, etc.[11]

      [11] Capite censi, or Proletarii--H.

As for slaves and bondmen, we have none; nay, such is the privilege of our country by the especial
grace of God and bounty of our princes, that if any come hither from other realms, so soon
as they set foot on land they become so free of condition as their masters, whereby all note
of servile bondage is utterly removed from them, wherein we resemble (not the Germans, who
had slaves also, though such as in respect of the slaves of other countries might well be reputed
free, but) the old Indians and the Taprobanes,[12] who supposed it a great injury to Nature
to make or suffer them to be bond, whom she in her wonted course doth product and bring forth
free. This fourth and last sort of people therefore have neither voice nor authority in the
commonwealth, but are to be ruled and not to rule other: yet they are not altogether neglected,
for in cities and corporate towns, for default of yeomen, they are fain to make up their inquests
of such manner of people. And in villages they are commonly made churchwardens, sidesmen, aleconners,
now and then constables, and many times enjoy the name of head boroughs. Unto this sort also
may our great swarms of idle serving-men be referred, of whom there runneth a proverb, "Young
servingmen, old beggars," because service is none heritage. These men are profitable to none;
for, if their condition be well perused, they are enemies to their masters; to their friends,
and to themselves: for by them oftentimes their masters are encouraged unto unlawful exactions
of their tenants, their friends brought unto poverty by their rents enhanced, and they themselves
brought to confusion by their own prodigality and errors, as men that, having not wherewith
of their own to maintain their excesses, do search in highways, budgets, coffers, mails, and
stables, which way to supply their wants. How divers of them also, coveting to bear an high
sail, do insinuate themselves with young gentlemen and noblemen newly come to their lands,
the case is too much apparent, whereby the good natures of the parties are not only a little
impaired, but also their livelihoods and revenues so wasted and consumed that, if at all, yet
not in many years, they shall be able to recover themselves. It were very good therefore that
the superfluous heaps of them were in part diminished. And since necessity enforceth to have
some, yet let wisdom moderate their numbers, so shall their masters be rid of unnecessary charge,
and the commonwealth of many thieves. No nation cherisheth such store of them as we do here
in England, in hope of which maintenance many give themselves to idleness that otherwise would
be brought to labour, and live in order like subjects. Of their whoredoms I will not speak
anything at all, more than of their swearing; yet is it found that some of them do make the
first a chief pillar of their building, consuming not only the goods but also the health and
welfare of many honest gentlemen, citizens, wealthy yeomen, etc., by such unlawful dealings.
But how far have I waded in this point, or how far may I sail in such a large sea? I will therefore
now stay to speak any more of those kind of men. In returning therefore to my matter, this
furthermore among other things I have to say of our husbandmen and artificers, that they were
never so excellent in their trades as at this present. But as the workmanship of the latter
sort was newer, more fine, and curious to the eye, so was it never less strong and substantial
for continuance and benefit of the buyers. Neither is there anything that hurteth the common
sort of our artificers more than haste, and a barbarous or slavish desire to turn the penny,
and, by ridding their work, to make speedy utterance of their wares: which enforceth them to
bungle up and despatch many things they care not how so they be out of their hands, whereby
the buyer is often sore defrauded, and findeth to his cost that haste maketh waste, according
to the proverb.

      [12] The Ceylonese. The Greek name for the island of Ceylon was
      Taprobane, which Harrison used merely as a classical scholar.--W.

Oh, how many trades and handicrafts are now in England whereof the commonwealth hath no need!
How many needful commodities have we which are perfected with great cost, etc., and yet may
with far more ease and less cost be provided from other countries if we could use the means!
I will not speak of iron, glass, and such like, which spoil much wood, and yet are brought
from other countries better cheap than we can make them here at home; I could exemplify also
in many other. But to leave these things and proceed with our purpose, and herein (as occasion
serveth) generally, by way of conclusion, to speak of the commonwealth of England, I find that
it is governed and maintained by three sorts of persons--

1. The prince, monarch, and head governor, which is called the king, or (if the crown fall
to a woman) the queen: in whose name and by whose authority all things are administered.

2. The gentlemen which be divided into two sorts, as the barony or estate of lords (which containeth
barons and all above that degree), and also those that be no lords, as knights, esquires, and
simple gentlemen, as I have noted already. Out of these also are the great deputies and high
presidents chosen, of which one serveth in Ireland, as another did some time in Calais, and
the captain now at Berwick, as one lord president doth govern in Wales, and the other the north
parts of this island, which later, with certain counsellors and judges, were erected by King
Henry the Eighth. But, for so much as I have touched their conditions elsewhere, it shall be
enough to have remembered them at this time.

3. The third and last sort is named the yeomanry, of whom and their sequel, the labourers and
artificers, I have said somewhat even now. Whereto I add that they may not be called masters
and gentlemen, but goodmen, as Goodman Smith, Goodman Coot, Goodman Cornell, Goodman Mascall,
Goodman Cockswet, etc., and in matters of law these and the like are called thus, Giles Jewd,
yeoman; Edward Mountford, yeoman; James Cocke, yeoman; Harry Butcher, yeoman, etc.; by which
addition they are exempt from the vulgar and common sorts. Cato calleth them "Aratores et optimos
cives rei publicæ," of whom also you may read more in the book of commonwealth which Sir Thomas
Smith some time penned of this land.

CHAPTER II

OF CITIES AND TOWNS IN ENGLAND

[1577, Book II., Chapter 7, 1587, Book II., Chapter 13.]

As in old time we read that there were eight-and-twenty flamines and archflamines in the south
part of this isle, and so many great cities under their jurisdiction, so in these our days
there is but one or two fewer, and each of them also under the ecclesiastical regiment of some
one bishop or archbishop, who in spiritual cases have the charge and oversight of the same.
So many cities therefore are there in England and Wales as there be bishoprics and archbishoprics.[1]
For, notwithstanding that Lichfield and Coventry and Bath and Wells do seem to extend the aforesaid
number unto nine-and-twenty, yet neither of these couples are to be accounted but as one entire
city and see of the bishop, sith one bishopric can have relation but unto one see, and the
said see be situate but in one place, after which the bishop doth take his name.[2]...

      [1] If Harrison means to give us the impression that a city has
      any direct connection with episcopal affairs, he is quite in
      error. Cities are distinctly royal and imperial institutions.
      The accident of the number of cities and sees being the same
      comes from the natural tendency of the two institutions to drift
      together, though of distinct origin--W.

      [2] Here follows a long and learned disquisition upon the Roman
      and other early towns, especially about St. Albans, a portion of
      which will be found in the Appendix.--W.

Certes I would gladly set down, with the names and number of the cities, all the towns and
villages in England and Wales with their true longitudes and latitudes, but as yet I cannot
come by them in such order as I would; howbeit the tale of our cities is soon found by the
bishoprics, sith every see hath such prerogative given unto it as to bear the name of a city
and to use Regaleius within her own limits. Which privilege also is granted to sundry ancient
towns in England, especially northward, where more plenty of them is to be found by a great
deal than in the south, The names therefore of our cities are these: London, York, Canterbury,
Winchester, Carlisle, Durham, Ely, Norwich, Lincoln, Worcester, Gloucester, Hereford, Salisbury,
Exeter, Bath, Lichfield, Bristol, Rochester, Chester, Chichester, Oxford, Peterborough, Llandaff,
St. Davids, Bangor, St. Asaph, whose particular plots and models, with their descriptions,
shall ensue, if it may be brought to pass that the cutters can make despatch of them before
this history be published.

Of towns and villages likewise thus much will I say, that there were greater store in old time
(I mean within three or four hundred years passed) than at this present. And this I note out
of divers records, charters, and donations (made in times past unto sundry religious houses,
as Glastonbury, Abingdon, Ramsey, Ely, and such like), and whereof in these days I find not
so much as the ruins. Leland, in sundry places, complaineth likewise of the decay of parishes
in great cities and towns, missing in some six or eight or twelve churches and more, of all
which he giveth particular notice. For albeit that the Saxons builded many towns and villages,
and the Normans well more at their first coming, yet since the first two hundred years after
the latter conquest, they have gone so fast again to decay that the ancient number of them
is very much abated. Ranulph, the monk of Chester, telleth of general survey made in the fourth,
sixteenth, and nineteenth of the reign of William Conqueror, surnamed the Bastard, wherein
it was found that (notwithstanding the Danes had overthrown a great many) there were to the
number of 52,000 towns, 45,002 parish churches, and 75,000 knights' fees, whereof the clergy
held 28,015. He addeth moreover that there were divers other builded since that time, within
the space of a hundred years after the coming of the Bastard, as it were in lieu or recompense
of those that William Rufus pulled down for the erection of his New Forest. For by an old book
which I have, and some time written as it seemeth by an under-sheriff of Nottingham, I find
even in the time of Edward IV. 45,120 parish churches, and but 60,216 knights' fees, whereof
the clergy held as before 28,015, or at the least 28,000; for so small is the difference which
he doth seem to use. Howbeit, if the assertions of such as write in our time concerning this
matter either are or ought to be of any credit in this behalf, you shall not find above 17,000
towns and villages, and 9210 in the whole, which is little more than a fourth part of the aforesaid
number, if it be thoroughly scanned.[3]...

      [3] Here follows an allusion to the decay of Eastern cities.--W.

In time past in Lincoln (as the same goeth) there have been two-and-fifty parish churches,
and good record appeareth for eight-and-thirty, but now, if there be four-and-twenty, it is
all. This inconvenience hath grown altogether to the church by appropriations made unto monasteries
and religious houses--a terrible canker and enemy to religion.

But to leave this lamentable discourse of so notable and grievous an inconvenience, growing
as I said by encroaching and joining of house to house and laying land to land, whereby the
inhabitants of many places of our country are devoured and eaten up, and their houses either
altogether pulled down or suffered to decay little by little, although some time a poor man
per adventure doth dwell in one of them, who, not being able to repair it, suffereth it to
fall down--and thereto thinketh himself very friendly dealt withal, if he may have an acre
of ground assigned unto him, wherein to keep a cow, or wherein to set cabbages, radishes, parsnips,
carrots, melons, pompons,[4] or such like stuff, by which he and his poor household liveth
as by their principal food, sith they can do no better. And as for wheaten bread, they eat
it when they can reach unto the price of it, contenting themselves in the meantime with bread
made of oats or barley: a poor estate, God wot! Howbeit, what care our great encroachers? But
in divers places where rich men dwelled some time in good tenements, there be now no houses
at all, but hop-yards, and sheds for poles, or peradventure gardens, as we may see in Castle
Hedingham, and divers other places. But to proceed.

      [4] The old and proper form of the modern pumpkin.--W.

It is so that, our soil being divided into champaign ground and woodland, the houses of the
first lie uniformly builded in every town together, with streets and lanes; whereas in the
woodland countries (except here and there in great market towns) they stand scattered abroad,
each one dwelling in the midst of his own occupying. And as in many and most great market towns,
there are commonly three hundred or four hundred families or mansions, and two thousand communicants
(or peradventure more), so in the other, whether they be woodland or champaign, we find not
often above forty, fifty, or three score households, and two or three hundred communicants,
whereof the greatest part nevertheless are very poor folks, oftentimes without all manner of
occupying, sith the ground of the parish is gotten up into a few men's hands, yea sometimes
into the tenure of one or two or three, whereby the rest are compelled either to be hired servants
unto the other or else to beg their bread in misery from door to door.

There are some (saith Leland) which are not so favourable, when they have gotten such lands,
as to let the houses remain upon them to the use of the poor; but they will compound with the
lord of the soil to pull them down for altogether, saying that "if they did let them stand,
they should but toll beggars to the town, thereby to surcharge the rest of the parish, and
lay more burden upon them." But alas! these pitiful men see not that they themselves hereby
do lay the greatest log upon their neighbours' necks. For, sith the prince doth commonly loose
nothing of his duties accustomable to be paid, the rest of the parishioners that remain must
answer and bear them out: for they plead more charge other ways, saying: "I am charged already
with a light horse; I am to answer in this sort, and after that matter." And it is not yet
altogether out of knowledge that, where the king had seven pounds thirteen shillings at a task
gathered of fifty wealthy householders of a parish in England, now, a gentleman having three
parts of the town in his own hands, four households do bear all the aforesaid payment, or else
Leland is deceived in his Commentaries, lib. 13, lately come to my hands, which thing he especially
noted in his travel over this isle. A common plague and enormity, both in the heart of the
land and likewise upon the coasts. Certes a great number complain of the increase of poverty,
laying the cause upon God, as though he were in fault for sending such increase of people,
or want of wars that should consume them, affirming that the land was never so full, etc.;
but few men do see the very root from whence it doth proceed. Yet the Romans found it out,
when they flourished, and therefore prescribed limits to every man's tenure and occupying.
Homer commendeth Achilles for overthrowing of five-and-twenty cities: but in mine opinion Ganges
is much better preferred by Suidas for building of three score in India, where he did plant
himself. I could (if need required) set down in this place the number of religious houses and
monasteries, with the names of their founders, that have been in this island: but, sith it
is a thing of small importance, I pass it over as impertinent to my purpose. Yet herein I will
commend sundry of the monastical votaries, especially monks, for that they were authors of
many goodly borowes and endwares,[5] near unto their dwellings although otherwise they pretended
to be men separated from the world. But alas! their covetous minds, one way in enlarging their
revenues, and carnal intent another, appeared herein too, too much. For, being bold from time
to time to visit their tenants, they wrought oft great wickedness, and made those endwares
little better than brothel-houses, especially where nunneries were far off, or else no safe
access unto them. But what do I spend my time in the rehearsal of these filthinesses? Would
to God the memory of them might perish with the malefactors! My purpose was also at the end
of this chapter to have set down a table of the parish churches and market towns throughout
all England and Wales; but, sith I cannot perform the same as I would, I am forced to give
over my purpose; yet by these few that ensue you shall easily see what I would have used according
to the shires, if I might have brought it to pass.

      [5] The first is a variant on a Keltic, the second on a Saxon
      word, both relating to matters sufficiently indicated in the
      text.--W.

Shires.                  Market Towns.    Parishes.

Middlesex                     3              73 London within the walls and without       
120 Surrey                        6             140 Sussex                       18       
312 Kent                         17             398 Cambridge                     4       
163 Bedford                       9              13 Huntingdon                    5       
78 Rutland                       2              47 Berkshire                    11        
150 Northampton                  10             326 Buckingham                   11       
196 Oxford                       10             216 Southampton                  18       
248 Dorset                       19             279 Norfolk                      26       
625 Suffolk                      25             575 Essex                        18             415

And these I had of a friend of mine, by whose travel and his master's excessive charges I doubt
not but my countrymen ere long shall see all England set forth in several shires after the
same manner that Ortelius hath dealt with other countries of the main, to the great benefit
of our nation and everlasting fame of the aforesaid parties.

CHAPTER III

OF GARDENS AND ORCHARDS

[1587, Book II., Chapter 20.]

After such time as Calais was won from the French, and that our countrymen had learned to trade
into divers countries (whereby they grew rich), they began to wax idle also, and thereupon
not only left off their former painfulness and frugality, but in like sort gave themselves
to live in excess and vanity, whereby many goodly commodities failed, and in short time were
not to be had amongst us. Such strangers also as dwelled here with us, perceiving our sluggishness,
and espying that this idleness of ours might redound to their great profit, forthwith employed
their endeavors to bring in the supply of such things as we lacked continually from foreign
countries, which yet more augmented our idleness. For, having all things at reasonable prices
(as we supposed) by such means from them, we thought it mere madness to spend either time or
cost about the same here at home. And thus we became enemies to our own welfare, as men that
in those days reposed our felicity in following the wars, wherewith we were often exercised
both at home and other places. Besides this, the natural desire that mankind hath to esteem
of things far sought, because they be rare and costly, and the irksome contempt of things near
hand, for that they are common and plentiful, hath borne no small sway also in this behalf
amongst us. For hereby we have neglected our own good gifts of God, growing here at home, as
vile and of no value, and had every trifle and toy in admiration that is brought hither from
far countries, ascribing I wot not what great forces and solemn estimation unto them, until
they also have waxen old, after which they have been so little regarded, if not more despised,
amongst us than our own. Examples hereof I could set down many and in many things; but, sith
my purpose is to deal at this time with gardens and orchards, it shall suffice that I touch
them only, and show our inconstancy in the same, so far as shall seem and be convenient for
my turn. I comprehend therefore under the word "garden" all such grounds as are wrought with
the spade by man's hand, for so the case requireth.

Of wine I have written already elsewhere sufficiently, which commodity (as I have learned further
since the penning of that book) hath been very plentiful in this island, not only in the time
of the Romans, but also since the Conquest, as I have seen by record; yet at this present have
we none at all (or else very little to speak of) growing in this island, which I impute not
unto the soil, but the negligence of my countrymen. Such herbs, fruits, and roots also as grow
yearly out of the ground, of seed, have been very plentiful in this land, in the time of the
first Edward, and after his days; but in process of time they grew also to be neglected, so
that from Henry the Fourth till the latter end of Henry the Seventh and beginning of Henry
the Eighth, there was little or no use of them in England, but they remained either unknown
or supposed as food more meet for hogs and savage beasts to feed upon than mankind. Whereas
in my time their use is not only resumed among the poor commons. I mean of melons, pompons,
gourds, cucumbers, radishes, skirets,[1] parsnips, carrots, cabbages, navews,[2] turnips, and
all kinds of salad herbs--but also fed upon as dainty dishes at the tables of delicate merchants,
gentlemen, and the nobility, who make their provision yearly for new seeds out of strange countries,
from whence they have them abundantly. Neither do they now stay with such of these fruits as
are wholesome in their kinds, but adventure further upon such as are very dangerous and hurtful,
as the verangenes, mushrooms, etc., as if nature had ordained all for the belly, or that all
things were to be eaten for whose mischievous operation the Lord in some measure hath given
and provided a remedy.

      [1] A vegetable something like a carrot.

      [2] A kind of turnip.

Hops in time past were plentiful in this land. Afterwards also their maintenance did cease.
And now, being revived, where are any better to be found? Where any greater commodity to be
raised by them? Only poles are accounted to be their greatest charge. But, sith men have learned
of late to sow ashen kexes in ashyards by themselves, that inconvenience in short time will
be redressed.

Madder hath grown abundantly in this island, but of long time neglected, and now a little revived,
and offereth itself to prove no small benefit unto our country, as many other things else,
which are now fetched from us: as we before time, when we gave ourselves to idleness, were
glad to have them other.

If you look into our gardens annexed to our houses, how wonderfully is their beauty increased,
not only with flowers, which Columella calleth Terrena sydera[3] saying,

  "Pingit et in varios terrestria sydera flores,"[4]

and variety of curious and costly workmanship, but also with rare and medicinable herbs sought
up in the land within these forty years: so that, in comparison of this present, the ancient
gardens were but dunghills and laistowes,[5] to such as did possess them. How art also helpeth
nature in the daily colouring, doubling, and enlarging the proportion of our flowers, it is
incredible to report: for so curious and cunning are our gardeners now in these days that they
presume to do in manner what they list with nature, and moderate her course in things as if
they were her superiors. It is a world also to see how many strange herbs, plants, and annual
fruits are daily brought unto us from the Indies, Americans, Taprobane, Canary Isles, and all
parts of the world: the which, albeit that in respect of the constitutions of our bodies they
do not grow for us (because that God hath bestowed sufficient commodities upon every country
for her own necessity), yet, for delectation sake unto the eye and their odoriferous savours
unto the nose, they are to be cherished, and God to be glorified also in them, because they
are his good gifts, and created to do man help and service. There is not almost one nobleman,
gentleman, or merchant that hath not great store of these flowers, which now also do begin
to wax so well acquainted with our soils that we may almost account of them as parcel of our
own commodities. They have no less regard in like sort to cherish medicinable herbs fetched
out of other regions nearer hand, insomuch that I have seen in some one garden to the number
of three hundred or four hundred of them, if not more, of the half of whose names within forty
years past we had no manner of knowledge. But herein I find some cause of just complaint, for
that we extol their uses so far that we fall into contempt of our own, which are in truth more
beneficial and apt for us than such as grow elsewhere, sith (as I said before) every region
hath abundantly within her own limits whatsoever is needful and most convenient for them that
dwell therein. How do men extol the use of tobacco in my time, whereas in truth (whether the
cause be in the repugnancy of our constitution unto the operation thereof, or that the ground
doth alter her force, I cannot tell) it is not found of so great efficacy as they write. And
beside this, our common germander or thistle benet is found and known to be so wholesome and
of so great power in medicine as any other herb, if they be used accordingly. I could exemplify
after the like manner in sundry other, as the Salsa parilla, Mochoacan, etc., but I forbear
so to do, because I covet to be brief. And truly, the estimation and credit that we yield and
give unto compound medicines made with foreign drugs is one great cause wherefore the full
knowledge and use of our own simples hath been so long raked up in the embers. And as this
may be verified so to be one sound conclusion, for, the greater number of simples that go unto
any compound medicine, the greater confusion is found therein, because the qualities and operations
of very few of the particulars are thoroughly known. And even so our continual desire of strange
drugs, whereby the physician and apothecary only hath the benefit, is no small cause that the
use of our simples here at home doth go to loss, and that we tread those herbs under our feet,
whose forces if we knew, and could apply them to our necessities, we would honour and have
in reverence as to their case behoveth. Alas! what have we to do with such Arabian and Grecian
stuff as is daily brought from those parties which lie in another clime? And therefore the
bodies of such as dwell there are of another constitution than ours are here at home. Certes
they grow not for us, but for the Arabians and Grecians. And albeit that they may by skill
be applied unto our benefit, yet to be more skilful in them than in our own is folly; and to
use foreign wares, when our own may serve the turn, is more folly; but to despise our own,
and magnify above measure the use of them that are sought and brought from far, is most folly
of all: for it savoureth of ignorance, or at the leastwise of negligence, and therefore worthy
of reproach.

      [3] Earthly stars.

      [4] "And paints terrestrial constellations with varied flowers."

      [5] Refuse-heaps.

Among the Indians, who have the most present cures for every disease of their own nation, there
is small regard of compound medicines, and less of foreign drugs, because they neither know
them nor can use them, but work wonders even with their own simples. With them also the difference
of the clime doth show her full effect. For, whereas they will heal one another in short time
with application of one simple, etc., if a Spaniard or Englishman stand in need of their help,
they are driven to have a longer space in their cures, and now and then also to use some addition
of two or three simples at the most, whose forces unto them are thoroughly known, because their
exercise is only in their own, as men that never sought or heard what virtue was in those that
came from other countries. And even so did Marcus Cato, the learned Roman, endeavour to deal
in his cures of sundry diseases, wherein he not only used such simples as were to be had in
his own country, but also examined and learned the forces of each of them, wherewith he dealt
so diligently that in all his lifetime he could attain to the exact knowledge but of a few,
and thereto wrote of those most learnedly, as would easily be seen if those his books were
extant. For the space also of six hundred years the colewort only was a medicine in Rome for
all diseases, so that his virtues were thoroughly known in those parts. * * *

For my part, I doubt not if the use of outlandish drugs had not blinded our physicians of England
in times past, but that the virtues of our simples here at home would have been far better
known, and so well unto us as those of India are to the practitioners of those parts, and thereunto
be found more profitable for us than the foreign either are or may be. This also will I add,
that even those which are most common by reason of their plenty, and most vile because of their
abundance, are not without some universal and special efficacy, if it were known, for our benefit:
sith God in nature hath so disposed his creatures that the most needful are the most plentiful
and serving for such general diseases as our constitution most commonly is affected withal.
Great thanks therefore be given unto the physicians of our age and country, who not only endeavour
to search out the use of such simples as our soil doth yield and bring forth, but also to procure
such as grow elsewhere, upon purpose so to acquaint them with our clime that they in time,
through some alteration received from the nature of the earth, may likewise turn to our benefit
and commodity and be used as our own.

The chief workman (or, as I may call him, the founder of this device) is Carolus Clusius, the
noble herbarist whose industry hath wonderfully stirred them up into this good act. For albeit
that Matthiolus, Rembert, Lobell, and others have travelled very far in this behalf, yet none
hath come near to Clusius, much less gone further in the finding and true descriptions of such
herbs as of late are brought to light. I doubt not but, if this man were in England but one
seven years, he would reveal a number of herbs growing with us whereof neither our physicians
nor apothecaries as yet have any knowledge. And even like thanks be given unto our nobility,
gentlemen, and others, for their continual nutriture and cherishing of such homeborne and foreign
simples in their gardens: for hereby they shall not only be had at hand and preserved, but
also their forms made more familiar to be discerned and their forces better known than hitherto
they have been.

And even as it fareth with our gardens, so doth it with our orchards, which were never furnished
with so good fruit nor with such variety as at this present. For, beside that we have most
delicate apples, plums, pears, walnuts, filberts, etc., and those of sundry sorts, planted
within forty years past, in comparison of which most of the old trees are nothing worth, so
have we no less store of strange fruit, as apricots, almonds, peaches, figs, corn-trees[6]
in noblemen's orchards. I have seen capers, oranges, and lemons, and heard of wild olives growing
here, beside other strange trees, brought from far, whose names I know not. So that England
for these commodities was never better furnished, neither any nation under their clime more
plentifully endued with these and other blessings from the most high God, who grant us grace
withal to use the same to his honour and glory! And not as instruments and provocations into
further excess and vanity, wherewith his displeasure may be kindled, lest these his benefits
do turn unto thorns and briers unto us for our annoyance and punishment, which he hath bestowed
upon us for our consolation and comfort.

      [6] Probably cornels.

We have in like sort such workmen as are not only excellent in grafting the natural fruits,
but their artificial mixtures, whereby one tree bringeth forth sundry fruits, and one and the
same fruit of divers colours and tastes, dallying as it were with nature and her course, as
if her whole trade were perfectly known unto them: of hard fruits they will make tender, of
sour sweet, of sweet yet more delicate, bereaving also some of their kernels, other of their
cores, and finally enduing them with the savour of musk, amber, or sweet spices, at their pleasures.
Divers also have written at large of these several practices, and some of them how to convert
the kernels of peaches into almonds, of small fruit to make far greater, and to remove or add
superfluous or necessary moisture to the trees, with other things belonging to their preservation,
and with no less diligence than our physicians do commonly show upon our own diseased bodies,
which to me doth seem right strange. And even so do our gardeners with their herbs, whereby
they are strengthened against noisome blasts, and preserved from putrefaction and hindrance:
whereby some such as were annual are now made perpetual, being yearly taken up, and either
reserved in the house, or, having the ross pulled from their roots, laid again into the earth,
where they remain in safety. With choice they make also in their waters, and wherewith some
of them do now and then keep them moist, it is a world to see, insomuch that the apothecaries'
shops may seem to be needful also to our gardens and orchards, and that in sundry wise: nay,
the kitchen itself is so far from being able to be missed among them that even the very dish-water
is not without some use amongst our finest plants. Whereby, and sundry other circumstances
not here to be remembered, I am persuaded that, albeit the gardens of the Hesperides were in
times past so greatly accounted of, because of their delicacy, yet, if it were possible to
have such an equal judge as by certain knowledge of both were able to pronounce upon them,
I doubt not but he would give the prize unto the gardens of our days, and generally over all
Europe, in comparison of those times wherein the old exceeded. Pliny and others speak of a
rose that had three score leaves growing upon one button: but if I should tell of one which
bare a triple number unto that proportion, I know I shall not be believed, and no great matter
though I were not; howbeit such a one was to be seen in Antwerp, 1585, as I have heard, and
I know who might have had a slip or stallon thereof, if he would have ventured ten pounds upon
the growth of the same, which should have been but a tickle hazard, and therefore better undone,
as I did always imagine. For mine own part, good reader, let me boast a little of my garden,
which is but small, and the whole area thereof little above 300 foot of ground, and yet, such
hath been my good luck in purchase of the variety of simples, that, notwithstanding my small
ability, there are very near three hundred of one sort and other contained therein, no one
of them being common or usually to be had. If therefore my little plot, void of all cost in
keeping, be so well furnished, what shall we think of those of Hampton Court, Nonsuch, Tibaults,
Cobham Garden, and sundry others appertaining to divers citizens of London, whom I could particularly
name, if I should not seem to offend them by such my demeanour and dealing.

CHAPTER IV

OF FAIRS AND MARKETS

[1577, Book II., Chapter 11; 1587, Book II., Chapter 18.]

There are (as I take it) few great towns in England that have not their weekly markets, one
or more granted from the prince, in which all manner of provision for household is to be bought
and sold, for ease and benefit of the country round about. Whereby, as it cometh to pass that
no buyer shall make any great journey in the purveyance of his necessities, so no occupier
shall have occasion to travel far off with his commodities, except it be to seek for the highest
prices, which commonly are near unto great cities, where round[1] and speediest utterance[2]
is always to be had. And, as these have been in times past erected for the benefit of the realm,
so are they in many places too, too much abused: for the relief and ease of the buyer is not
so much intended in them as the benefit of the seller. Neither are the magistrates for the
most part (as men loath to displease their neighbours for their one year's dignity) so careful
in their offices as of right and duty they should be. For, in most of these markets, neither
assizes of bread nor orders for goodness and sweetness of grain and other commodities that
are brought thither to be sold are any whit looked unto, but each one suffered to sell or set
up what and how himself listeth: and this is one evident cause of dearth and scarcity in time
of great abundance.

      [1] Direct.

      [2] Market.

I could (if I would) exemplify in many, but I will touch no one particularly, sith it is rare
to see in any country town (as I said) the assize of bread well kept according to the statute;
and yet, if any country baker happen to come in among them on the market day with bread of
better quantity, they find fault by-and-by with one thing or other in his stuff, whereby the
honest poor man (whom the law of nations do commend, for that he endeavoureth to live by any
lawful means) is driven away, and no more to come there, upon some round penalty, by virtue
of their privileges. Howbeit, though they are so nice in the proportion of their bread, yet,
in lieu of the same, there is such heady ale and beer in most of them as for the mightiness
thereof among such as seek it out is commonly called "huffcap," "the mad dog," "Father Whoreson,"
"angels' food," "dragon's milk," "go-by-the-wall," "stride wide," and "lift leg," etc. And
this is more to be noted, that when one of late fell by God's providence into a troubled conscience,
after he had considered well of his reachless life and dangerous estate, another, thinking
belike to change his colour and not his mind, carried him straight away to the strongest ale,
as to the next physician. It is incredible to say how our malt-bugs lug at this liquor, even
as pigs should lie in a row lugging at their dame's teats, till they lie still again and be
not able to wag. Neither did Romulus and Remus suck their she-wolf or shepherd's wife Lupa
with such eager and sharp devotion as these men hale at "huffcap," till they be red as cocks
and little wiser than their combs. But how am I fallen from the market into the ale-house?
In returning therefore unto my purpose, I find that in corn great abuse is daily suffered,
to the great prejudice of the town and country, especially the poor artificer and householder,
which tilleth no land, but, labouring all the week to buy a bushel or two of grain on the market
day, can there have none for his money: because bodgers, loaders, and common carriers of corn
do not only buy up all, but give above the price, to be served of great quantities. Shall I
go any further? Well, I will say yet a little more, and somewhat by mine own experience.

At Michaelmas time poor men must make money of their grain, that they may pay their rents.
So long then as the poor man hath to sell, rich men bring out none, but rather buy up that
which the poor bring, under pretence of seed corn or alteration of grain, although they bring
none of their own, because one wheat often sown without change of seed will soon decay and
be converted into darnel. For this cause therefore they must needs buy in the markets, though
they be twenty miles off, and where they be not known, promising there, if they happen to be
espied (which, God wot, is very seldom), to send so much to their next market, to be performed
I wot not when.

If this shift serve not (neither doth the fox use always one track for fear of a snare), they
will compound with some one of the town where the market is holden, who for a pot of "huffcap"
or "merry-go-down," will not let to buy it for them, and that in his own name. Or else they
wage one poor man or other to become a bodger, and thereto get him a licence upon some forged
surmise, which being done, they will feed him with money to buy for them till he hath filled
their lofts, and then, if he can do any good for himself, so it is; if not, they will give
him somewhat for his pains at this time, and reserve him for another year. How many of the
like providers stumble upon blind creeks at the sea coast, I wot not well; but that some have
so done and yet do under other men's wings, the case is too, too plain. But who dare find fault
with them, when they have once a licence? yes, though it be but to serve a mean gentleman's
house with corn, who hath cast up all his tillage, because he boasteth how he can buy his grain
in the market better cheap than he can sow his land, as the rich grazier often doth also upon
the like device, because grazing requireth a smaller household and less attendance and charge.
If any man come to buy a bushel or two for his expenses unto the market cross, answer is made:
"Forsooth, here was one even now that bade me money for it, and I hope he will have it." And
to say the truth, these bodgers are fair chapmen; for there are no more words with them, but
"Let me see it! What shall I give you? Knit it up! I will have it--go carry it to such a chamber,
and if you bring in twenty seme[3] more in the weekday to such an inn or sollar[4] where I
lay my corn, I will have it, and give you (   ) pence or more in every bushel for six weeks'
day of payment than another will." Thus the bodgers bear away all, so that the poor artificer
and labourer cannot make his provision in the markets, sith they will hardly nowadays sell
by the bushel, nor break their measure; and so much the rather for that the buyer will look
(as they say) for so much over measure in the bushel as the bodger will do in a quarter. Nay,
the poor man cannot oft get any of the farmer at home, because he provideth altogether to serve
the bodger, or hath an hope, grounded upon a greedy and insatiable desire of gain, that the
sale will be better in the market, so that he must give twopence or a groat more in the bushel
at his house than the last market craved, or else go without it, and sleep with a hungry belly.
Of the common carriage of corn over unto the parts beyond the seas I speak not; or at the leastwise,
if I should, I could not touch it alone, but needs must join other provision withal, whereby
not only our friends abroad, but also many of our adversaries and countrymen, the papists,
are abundantly relieved (as the report goeth); but sith I see it not, I will not so trust mine
ears as to write it for a truth. But to return to our markets again.

      [3] Horse-loads.

      [4] Loft.

By this time the poor occupier hath sold all his crop for need of money, being ready peradventure
to buy again ere long. And now is the whole sale of corn in the great occupiers' hands, who
hitherto have threshed little or none of their own, but bought up of other men as much as they
could come by. Henceforth also they begin to sell, not by the quarter or load at the first
(for marring the market) but by the bushel or two, or a horseload at the most, thereby to be
seen to keep the cross, either for a show, or to make men eager to buy, and so, as they may
have it for money, not to regard what they pay. And thus corn waxeth dear; but it will be dearer
the next market day. It is possible also that they mislike the price in the beginning for the
whole year ensuing, as men supposing that corn will be little worth for this and of better
price the next year. For they have certain superstitious observations whereby they will give
a guess at the sale of corn for the year following. And our countrymen do use commonly for
barley, where I dwell, to judge after the price at Baldock upon St. Matthew's day; and for
wheat, as it is sold in seed time. They take in like sort experiment by sight of the first
flocks of cranes that flee southward in winter, the age of the moon in the beginning of January,
and such other apish toys as by laying twelve corns upon the hot hearth for the twelve months,
etc., whereby they shew themselves to be scant good Christians; but what care they, so that
they come by money? Hereupon also will they thresh out three parts of the old corn, towards
the latter end of the summer, when new cometh apace to hand, and cast the same in the fourth
unthreshed, where it shall lie until the next spring, or peradventure till it must and putrify.
Certes it is not dainty to see musty corn in many of our great markets of England which these
great occupiers bring forth when they can keep it no longer. But as they are enforced oftentimes
upon this one occasion somewhat to abate the price, so a plague is not seldom engendered thereby
among the poorer sort that of necessity must buy the same, whereby many thousands of all degrees
are consumed, of whose death (in mine opinion) these farmers are not unguilty. But to proceed.
If they lay not up their grain or wheat in this manner, they have yet another policy, whereby
they will seem to have but small store left in their barns: for else they will gird their sheaves
by the band, and stack it up anew in less room, to the end it may not only seem less in quantity,
but also give place to the corn that is yet to come into the barn or growing in the field.
If there happen to be such plenty in the market on any market day that they cannot sell at
their own price, then will they set it up in some friend's house, against another on the third
day, and not bring it forth till they like of the sale. If they sell any at home, beside harder
measure, it shall be dearer to the poor man that buyeth it by twopence or a groat in a bushel
than they may sell it in the market. But, as these things are worthy redress, so I wish that
God would once open their eyes that deal thus to see their own errors: for as yet some of them
little care how many poor men suffer extremity, so that they fill their purses and carry away
the gain.

It is a world also to see how most places of the realm are pestered with purveyors, who take
up eggs, butter, cheese, pigs, capons, hens, chickens, hogs, bacon, etc., in one market under
pretence of their commissions, and suffer their wives to sell the same in another, or to poulterers
of London. If these chapmen be absent but two or three market days then we may perfectly see
these wares to be more reasonably sold, and thereunto the crosses sufficiently furnished of
all things. In like sort, since the number of buttermen have so much increased, and since they
travel in such wise that they come to men's houses for their butter faster than they can make
it, it is almost incredible to see how the price of butter is augmented: whereas when the owners
were enforced to bring it to the market towns, and fewer of these butter buyers were stirring,
our butter was scarcely worth eighteen pence the gallon that now is worth three shillings fourpence
and perhaps five shillings. Whereby also I gather that the maintenance of a superfluous number
of dealers in most trades, tillage always excepted, is one of the greatest causes why the prices
of things became excessive: for one of them do commonly use to outbid another. And whilst our
country commodities are commonly bought and sold at our private houses, I never look to see
this enormity redressed or the markets well furnished.

I could say more, but this is even enough, and more peradventure than I shall be well thanked
for: yet true it is, though some think it no trespass. This moreover is to be lamented, that
one general measure is not in use throughout all England, but every market town hath in manner
a several bushel; and the lesser it be, the more sellers it draweth to resort unto the same.
Such also is the covetousness of many clerks of the market, that in taking a view of measures
they will always so provide that one and the same bushel shall be either too big or too little
at their next coming, and yet not depart without a fee at the first so that what by their mending
at one time, and impairing the same at another, the country is greatly charged, and few just
measures to be had in any steed. It is oft found likewise that divers unconscionable dealers
have one measure to sell by and another to buy withal; the like is also in weights, and yet
all sealed and branded. Wherefore it were very good that these two were reduced unto one standard,
that is, one bushel, one pound, one quarter, one hundred, one tale, one number: so should things
in time fall into better order and fewer causes of contention be moved in this land. Of the
complaint of such poor tenants as pay rent corn unto their landlords, I speak not, who are
often dealt withal very hardly. For, beside that in measuring of ten quarters for the most
part they lose one through the iniquity of the bushel (such is the greediness of the appointed
receivers thereof), fault is found also with the goodness and cleanness of the grain. Whereby
some piece of money must needs pass unto their purses to stop their mouths withal, or else
"My lord will not like of the corn," "Thou art worthy to lose thy lease," etc. Or, if it be
cheaper in the market than the rate allowed for it is in their rents, then must they pay money
and no corn, which is no small extremity. And thereby we may see how each one of us endeavoureth
to fleece and eat up another.

Another thing there is in our markets worthy to be looked into, and that is the recarriage
of grain from the same into lofts and cellars, of which before I gave some intimation; wherefore
if it were ordered that every seller should make his market by an hour, or else the bailey
or clerk of the said market to make sale thereof, according to his discretion, without liberty
to the farmers to set up their corn in houses and chambers, I am persuaded that the prices
of our grain would soon be abated. Again, if it were enacted that each one should keep his
next market with his grain (and not to run six, eight, ten, fourteen, or twenty miles from
home to sell his corn where he doth find the highest price, and thereby leaveth his neighbours
unfurnished), I do not think but that our markets would be far better served than at this present
they are. Finally, if men's barns might be indifferently viewed immediately after harvest,
and a note gathered by an estimate, and kept by some appointed and trusty person for that purpose,
we should have much more plenty of corn in our town crosses than as yet is commonly seen: because
each one hideth and hoardeth what he may, upon purpose either that it will be dearer, or that
he shall have some privy vein by bodgers, who do accustomably so deal that the sea doth load
away no small part thereof into other countries and our enemies, to the great hindrance of
our commonwealth at home, and more likely yet to be, except some remedy be found. But what
do I talk of these things, or desire the suppression of bodgers, being a minister? Certes I
may speak of them right well as feeling the harm in that I am a buyer, nevertheless I speak
generally in each of them.

To conclude therefore, in our markets all things are to be sold necessary for man's use; and
there is our provision made commonly for all the week ensuing. Therefore, as there are no great
towns without one weekly market at least, so there are very few of them that have not one or
two fairs or more within the compass of the year, assigned unto them by the prince And albeit
that some of them are not much better than Louse fair,[5] or the common kirkemesses,[6] beyond
the sea, yet there are divers not inferior to the greatest marts in Europe, as Stourbridge
fair near to Cambridge, Bristow fair, Bartholomew fair at London, Lynn mart, Cold fair at Newport
pond for cattle, and divers other, all which, or at leastwise the greatest part of them (to
the end I may with the more ease to the reader and less travel to myself fulfil my task in
their recital), I have set down according to the names of the months wherein they are holden
at the end of this book, where you shall find them at large as I borrowed the same from J.
Stow and the reports of others.

      [5] The ancient London counterpart of the more modern "Rag
      Fair" known to literary fame.--W.

      [6] The Kermess, or literally, "Church mass," so famous in
      "Faust."--W.

CHAPTER V

OF THE ANCIENT AND PRESENT ESTATE OF THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND

[1577, Book II., Chapter 5, 1585, Book II., Chapter 1.]

There are now two provinces only in England, of which the first and greatest is subject to
the see of Canterbury, comprehending a part of Lhoegres, whole Cambria, and also Ireland, which
in time past were several, and brought into one by the archbishop of the said see, and assistance
of the pope, who, in respect of meed, did yield unto the ambitious desires of sundry archbishops
of Canterbury, as I have elsewhere declared. The second province is under the see of York.
And, of these, each hath her archbishop resident commonly within her own limits, who hath not
only the chief dealing in matters appertaining to the hierarchy and jurisdiction of the church,
but also great authority in civil affairs touching the government of the commonwealth, so far
forth as their commissions and several circuits do extend.

In old time there were three archbishops, and so many provinces in this isle, of which one
kept at London, another at York, and the third at Caerleon upon Usk. But as that of London
was translated to Canterbury by Augustine, and that of York remaineth (notwithstanding that
the greatest part of his jurisdiction is now bereft him and given to the Scottish archbishop),
so that of Caerleon is utterly extinguished, and the government of the country united to that
of Canterbury in spiritual cases, after it was once before removed to St. David's in Wales,
by David, successor to Dubritius, and uncle to King Arthur, in the 519 of Grace, to the end
that he and his clerks might be further off from the cruelty of the Saxons, where it remained
till the time of the Bastard, and for a season after, before it was annexed to the see of Canterbury.

The Archbishop of Canterbury is commonly called the Primate of all England; and in the coronations
of the kings of this land, and all other times wherein it shall please the prince to wear and
put on his crown, his office is to set it upon their heads. They bear also the name of their
high chaplains continually, although not a few of them have presumed (in time past) to be their
equals, and void of subjection unto them. That this is true, it may easily appear by their
own acts yet kept in record, beside their epistles and answers written or in print, wherein
they have sought not only to match but also to mate[1] them with great rigour and more than
open tyranny. Our adversaries will peradventure deny this absolutely, as they do many other
things apparent, though not without shameless impudence, or at the leastwise defend it as just
and not swerving from common equity, because they imagine every archbishop to be the king's
equal in his own province. But how well their doing herein agreeth with the saying of Peter
and examples of the primitive church it may easily appear. Some examples also of their demeanour--I
mean in the time of popery--I will not let to remember, lest they should say I speak of malice,
and without all ground of likelihood.

      [1] Overcome.

Of their practices with mean persons I speak not, neither will I begin at Dunstan, the author
of all their pride and presumption here in England....

Wherefore I refer you to those reports of Anselm and Becket sufficiently penned by other, the
which Anselm also making a shew as if he had been very unwilling to be placed in the see of
Canterbury, gave this answer to the letters of such his friends as did make request unto him
to take the charge upon him--

    "Secularia negotia, nescio, quia scire nolo, eorum námque
    occupationes horreo, liberum affectans animum. Voluntati sacrarum
    intendo scripturarum, vos dissonantiam facitis, verendumque est né
    aratrum sancta ecclesia, quod in Anglia duo boves validi et pari
    fortitudine, ad bonum certantes, id est, rex et archepiscopus,
    debeant trahere nunc ove verula cum tauro indomito jugata,
    distorqueatur a recto. Ego ovis verula, qui si quietus essem,
    verbi Dei lacte, et operinento lanæ, aliquibus possèm fortassis
    non ingratus esse, sed si me cum hoc tauro coniungitis, videbitis
    pro disparilitate trahentium, aratrum non rectè procedere," etc.

Which is in English thus--

    "Of secular affairs I have no skill, because I will not know them;
    for I even abhor the troubles that rise about them, as one that
    desireth to have his mind at liberty. I apply my whole endeavour
    to the rule of the Scriptures; you lead me to the contrary; and it
    is to be feared lest the plough of holy church, which two strong
    oxen of equal force, and both like earnest to contend unto that
    which is good (that is, the king and the archbishop), ought to
    draw, should thereby now swerve from the right furrow, by matching
    of an old sheep with a wild, untamed bull. I am that old sheep,
    who, if I might be quiet, could peradventure shew myself not
    altogether ungrateful to some, by feeding them with the milk of
    the Word of God, and covering them with wool: but if you match me
    with this bull, you shall see that, through want of equality in
    draught, the plough will not go to right," etc.

As followeth in the process of his letters. The said Thomas Becket was so proud that he wrote
to King Henry the Second, as to his lord, to his king, and to his son, offering him his counsel,
his reverence, and due correction, etc. Others in like sort have protested that they owed nothing
to the kings of this land, but their council only, reserving all obedience unto the see of
Rome, whereby we may easily see the pride and ambition of the clergy in the blind time of ignorance.

And as the old cock of Canterbury did crow in this behalf, so the young cockerels of other
sees did imitate his demeanour, as may be seen by this one example also in King Stephen's time,
worthy to be remembered; unto whom the Bishop of London would not so much as swear to be true
subject: wherein also he was maintained by the pope....

Thus we see that kings were to rule no further than it pleased the pope to like of; neither
to challenge more obedience of their subjects than stood also with their good will and pleasure.
He wrote in like sort unto Queen Maud about the same matter, making her "Samson's calf"[2]
(the better to bring his purpose to pass)....

      [2] A fool or dupe.

Is it not strange that a peevish order of religion (devised by man) should break the express
law of God, who commandeth all men to honour and obey their kings and princes, in whom some
part of the power of God is manifest and laid open unto us? And even unto this end the cardinal
of Hostia also wrote to the canons of Paul's after this manner, covertly encouraging them to
stand to their election of the said Robert, who was no more willing to give over his new bishopric
than they careful to offend the king, but rather imagined which way to keep it still, maugre
his displeasure, and yet not to swear obedience unto him for all that he should be able to
do or perform unto the contrary....

Hereby you see how King Stephen was dealt withal. And albeit the Archbishop of Canterbury is
not openly to be touched herewith, yet it is not to be doubted but he was a doer in it, so
far as might tend to the maintenance of the right and prerogative of holy church. And even
no less unquietness had another of our princes with Thomas of Arundel, who fled to Rome for
fear of his head, and caused the pope to write an ambitious and contumelious letter unto his
sovereign about his restitution. But when (by the king's letters yet extant, and beginning
thus: "Thomas proditionis non expers nostræ regiæ majestati insidias fabricavit"[3]) the pope
understood the bottom of the matter, he was contented that Thomas should be deprived, and another
archbishop chosen in his stead.

      [3] "Thomas, not innocent of treason, has intrigued against
      the majesty of our court."

Neither did this pride stay at archbishops and bishops, but descended lower, even to the rake-hells
of the clergy and puddles of all ungodliness. For, beside the injury received of their superiors,
how was King John dealt withal by the vile Cistertians at Lincoln in the second of his reign?
Certes when he had (upon just occasion) conceived some grudge against them for their ambitious
demeanour, and upon denial to pay such sums of money as were allotted unto them, he had caused
seizure to be made of such horses, swine, neat, and other things of theirs as were maintained
in his forests, they denounced him as fast amongst themselves with bell, book, and candle,
to be accursed and excommunicated. Thereunto they so handled the matter with the pope and their
friends that the king was fain to yield to their good graces, insomuch that a meeting for pacification
was appointed between them at Lincoln, by means of the present Archbishop of Canterbury, who
went off between him and the Cistertian commissioners before the matter could be finished.
In the end the king himself came also unto the said commissioners as they sat in their chapterhouse,
and there with tears fell down at their feet, craving pardon for his trespasses against them,
and heartily requiring that they would (from henceforth) commend him and his realm in their
prayers unto the protection of the Almighty, and receive him into their fraternity, promising
moreover full satisfaction of their damages sustained, and to build an house of their order
in whatsoever place of England it should please them to assign. And this he confirmed by charter
bearing date the seven-and-twentieth of November, after the Scottish king was returned into
Scotland, and departed from the king. Whereby (and by other the like, as between John Stratford
and Edward the Third, etc.) a man may easily conceive how proud the clergymen have been in
former times, as wholly presuming upon the primacy of their pope. More matter could I allege
of these and the like broils, not to be found among our common historiographers. Howbeit, reserving
the same unto places more convenient, I will cease to speak of them at this time, and go forward
with such other things as my purpose is to speak of. At the first, therefore, there was like
and equal authority in both our archbishops, but as he of Canterbury hath long since obtained
the prerogative above York (although I say not without great trouble, suit, some bloodshed,
and contention), so the Archbishop of York is nevertheless written Primate of England, as one
contenting himself with a piece of a title at the least, when all could not be gotten. And
as he of Canterbury crowneth the king, so this of York doth the like to the queen, whose perpetual
chaplain he is, and hath been from time to time, since the determination of this controversy,
as writers do report. The first also hath under his jurisdiction to the number of one-and-twenty
inferior bishops; the other hath only four, by reason that the churches of Scotland are now
removed from his obedience unto an archbishop of their own, whereby the greatness and circuit
of the jurisdiction of York is not a little diminished. In like sort, each of these seven-and-twenty
sees have their cathedral churches, wherein the deans (a calling not known in England before
the Conquest) do bear the chief rule, being men especially chosen to that vocation, both for
their learning and godliness, so near as can be possible. These cathedral churches have in
like manner other dignities and canonries still remaining unto them, as heretofore under the
popish regiment. Howbeit those that are chosen to the same are no idle and unprofitable persons
(as in times past they have been when most of these livings were either furnished with strangers,
especially out of Italy, boys, or such idiots as had least skill of all in discharging of those
functions whereunto they were called by virtue of these stipends), but such as by preaching
and teaching can and do learnedly set forth the glory of God, and further the overthrow of
anti-Christ to the uttermost of their powers.

These churches are called cathedral, because the bishops dwell or lie near unto the same, as
bound to keep continual residence within their jurisdictions for the better oversight and governance
of the same, the word being derived a cathedra--that is to say, a chair or seat where he resteth,
and for the most part abideth. At the first there was but one church in every jurisdiction,
whereinto no man entered to pray but with some oblation or other toward the maintenance of
the pastor. For as it was reputed an infamy to pass by any of them without visitation, so it
was no less reproach to appear empty before the Lord. And for this occasion also they were
builded very huge and great; for otherwise they were not capable to such multitude as came
daily unto them to hear the Word and receive the sacraments.

But as the number of Christians increased, so first monasteries, then finally parish churches,
were builded in every jurisdiction: from whence I take our deanery churches to have their original
(now called "mother churches," and their incumbents, archpriests), the rest being added since
the Conquest, either by the lords of every town, or zealous men, loth to travel far, and willing
to have some ease by building them near hand. Unto these deanery churches also the clergy in
old time of the same deanery were appointed to repair at sundry seasons, there to receive wholesome
ordinances, and to consult upon the necessary affairs of the whole jurisdiction if necessity
so required; and some image hereof is yet to be seen in the north parts. But as the number
of churches increased, so the repair of the faithful unto the cathedrals did diminish; whereby
they now become, especially in their nether parts, rather markets and shops for merchandise
than solemn places of prayer, whereunto they were first erected. Moreover, in the said cathedral
churches upon Sundays and festival days the canons do make certain ordinary sermons by course,
whereunto great numbers of all estates do orderly resort; and upon the working days, thrice
in the week, one of the said canons (or some other in his stead) doth read and expound some
piece of holy Scripture, whereunto the people do very reverently repair. The bishops themselves
in like sort are not idle in their callings; for, being now exempt from court and council,
which is one (and a no small) piece of their felicity (although Richard Archbishop of Canterbury
thought otherwise, as yet appeareth by his letters to Pope Alexander, Epistola 44, Petri Blesensis,
where he saith, because the clergy of his time were somewhat narrowly looked unto, "Supra dorsum
ecclesiæ fabricant peccatores," etc.),[4] they so apply their minds to the setting forth of
the Word that there are very few of them which do not every Sunday or oftener resort to some
place or other within their jurisdictions where they expound the Scriptures with much gravity
and skill, and yet not without the great misliking and contempt of such as hate the Word. Of
their manifold translations from one see to another I will say nothing, which is not now done
for the benefit of the flock as the preferment of the party favoured and advantage unto the
prince, a matter in time past much doubted of--to wit, whether a bishop or pastor might be
translated from one see to another, and left undecided till prescription by royal authority
made it good. For, among princes, a thing once done is well done, and to be done oftentimes,
though no warrant be to be found therefore.

      [4] "Sinners build on the back of the church."

They have under them also their archdeacons, some one, divers two, and many four or more, as
their circuits are in quantity, which archdeacons are termed in law the bishops' eyes; and
these (beside their ordinary courts, which are holden within so many or more of their several
deaneries by themselves or their officials once in a month at the least) do keep yearly two
visitations or synods (as the bishop doth in every third year, wherein he confirmeth some children,
though most care but a little for that ceremony), in which they make diligent inquisition and
search, as well for the doctrine and behaviour of the ministers as the orderly dealing of the
parishioners in resorting to their parish churches and conformity unto religion. They punish
also with great severity all such trespassers, either in person or by the purse (where permutation
of penance is thought more grievous to the offender), as are presented unto them; or, if the
cause be of the more weight, as in cases of heresy, pertinacy, contempt, and such like, they
refer them either to the bishop of the diocese, or his chancellor, or else to sundry grave
persons set in authority, by virtue of an high commission directed unto them from the prince
to that end, who in very courteous manner do see the offenders gently reformed or else severely
punished if necessity so enforce.

Beside this, in many of our archdeaconries, we have an exercise lately begun which for the
most part is called a prophecy or conference, and erected only for the examination or trial
of the diligence of the clergy in their study of holy Scriptures. Howbeit, such is the thirsty
desire of the people in these days to hear the Word of God that they also have as it were with
zealous violence intruded themselves among them (but as hearers only) to come by more knowledge
through their presence at the same. Herein also (for the most part) two of the younger sort
of ministers do expound each after other some piece of the Scriptures ordinarily appointed
unto them in their courses (wherein they orderly go through with some one of the Evangelists,
or of the Epistles, as it pleaseth the whole assembly to choose at the first in every of these
conferences); and when they have spent an hour or a little more between them, then cometh one
of the better learned sort, who, being a graduate for the most part, or known to be a preacher
sufficiently authorised and of a sound judgment, supplieth the room of a moderator, making
first a brief rehearsal of their discourses, and then adding what him thinketh good of his
own knowledge, whereby two hours are thus commonly spent at this most profitable meeting. When
all is done, if the first speakers have shewed any piece of diligence, they are commended for
their travel, and encouraged to go forward. If they have been found to be slack, or not sound
in delivery of their doctrine, their negligence and error is openly reproved before all their
brethren, who go aside of purpose from the laity after the exercise ended to judge of these
matters, and consult of the next speakers and quantity of the text to be handled in that place.
The laity never speak, of course (except some vain and busy head will now and then intrude
themselves with offence), but are only hearers; and, as it is used in some places weekly, in
other once in fourteen days, in divers monthly, and elsewhere twice in a year, so is it a notable
spur unto all the ministers thereby to apply their books, which otherwise (as in times past)
would give themselves to hawking, hunting, tables, cards, dice, tippling at the alehouse, shooting
of matches, and other like vanities, nothing commendable in such as should be godly and zealous
stewards of the good gifts of God, faithful distributors of his Word unto the people, and diligent
pastors according to their calling.

But alas! as Sathan, the author of all mischief, hath in sundry manners heretofore hindered
the erection and maintenance of many good things, so in this he hath stirred up adversaries
of late unto this most profitable exercise, who, not regarding the commodity that riseth thereby
so well to the hearers as speakers, but either stumbling (I cannot tell how) at words and terms,
or at the leastwise not liking to hear of the reprehension of vice, or peradventure taking
a misliking at the slender demeanours of such negligent ministers as now and then in their
course do occupy the rooms, have either by their own practice, their sinister information,
or suggestions made upon surmises unto other, procured the suppression of these conferences,
condemning them as hurtful, pernicious, and daily breeders of no small hurt and inconvenience.
But hereof let God be judge, unto the cause belongeth.

Our elders or ministers and deacons (for subdeacons and the other inferior orders sometime
used in popish church we have not) are made according to a certain form of consecration concluded
upon in the time of King Edward the Sixth by the clergy of England, and soon after confirmed
by the three estates of the realm in the high court of parliament. And out of the first sort--that
is to say, of such as are called to the ministry (without respect whether they be married or
not)--are bishops, deans, archdeacons, and such as have the higher places in the hierarchy
of the church elected; and these also, as all the rest, at the first coming unto any spiritual
promotion do yield unto the prince the entire tax of that their living for one whole year,
if it amount in value unto ten pounds and upwards, and this under the name and title of first
fruits.

With us also it is permitted that a sufficient man may (by dispensation from the prince) hold
two livings, not distant either from other above thirty miles; whereby it cometh to pass that,
as her Majesty doth reap some commodity by the faculty, so that the unition of two in one man
doth bring oftentimes more benefit to one of them in a month (I mean for doctrine) than they
have had before peradventure in many years.

Many exclaim against such faculties, as if there were more good preachers that want maintenance
than livings to maintain them. Indeed when a living is void there are so many suitors for it
that a man would think the report to be true, and most certain; but when it cometh to the trial
(who are sufficient and who not, who are staid men in conversation, judgment, and learning),
of that great number you shall hardly find one or two such as they ought to be, and yet none
more earnest to make suit, to promise largely, bear a better shew, or find fault with the stage
of things than they. Nevertheless I do not think that their exclamations, if they were wisely
handled, are altogether grounded upon rumours or ambitious minds, if you respect the state
of the thing itself, and not the necessity growing through want of able men to furnish out
all the cures in England, which both our universities are never able to perform. For if you
observe what numbers of preachers Cambridge and Oxford do yearly send forth, and how many new
compositions are made in the Court of First Fruits by the deaths of the last incumbents, you
shall soon see a difference. Wherefore, if in country towns and cities, yea even in London
itself, four or five of the little churches were brought into one, the inconvenience would
in great part be redressed and amended.

And, to say truth, one most commonly of those small livings is of so little value that it is
not able to maintain a mean scholar, much less a learned man, as not being above ten, twelve,
sixteen, seventeen, twenty, or thirty pounds at the most, toward their charges, which now (more
than before time) do go out of the same. I say more than before, because every small trifle,
nobleman's request, or courtesy craved by the bishop, doth impose and command a twentieth part,
a three score part, or twopence in the pound, etc., out of the livings, which hitherto hath
not been usually granted, but by the consent of a synod, wherein things were decided according
to equity, and the poorer sort considered of, which now are equally burdened.

We pay also the tenths of our livings to the prince yearly, according to such valuation of
each of them as hath been lately made: which nevertheless in time past were not annual, but
voluntary, and paid at request of king or pope.[5]...

      [5] Here follows a story about the bootless errand of a pope's
      legate in 1452.--W.

But to return to our tenths, a payment first as devised by the pope, and afterward taken up
as by the prescription of the king, whereunto we may join also our first fruits, which is one
whole year's commodity of our living, due at our entrance into the same, the tenths abated
unto the prince's coffers, and paid commonly in two years. For the receipt also of these two
payments an especial office or court is erected, which beareth name of First Fruits and Tenths,
whereunto, if the party to be preferred do not make his dutiful repair by an appointed time
after possession taken, there to compound for the payment of his said fruits, he incurreth
the danger of a great penalty, limited by a certain statute provided in that behalf against
such as do intrude into the ecclesiastical function and refuse to pay the accustomed duties
belonging to the same.

They pay likewise subsidies with the temporalty, but in such sort that if these pay after four
shillings for land, the clergy contribute commonly after six shillings of the pound, so that
of a benefice of twenty pounds by the year the incumbent thinketh himself well acquitted if,
all ordinary payments being discharged, he may reserve thirteen pounds six shillings eightpence
towards his own sustentation or maintenance of his family. Seldom also are they without the
compass of a subsidy; for if they be one year clear from this payment (a thing not often seen
of late years), they are like in the next to hear of another grant: so that I say again they
are seldom without the limit of a subsidy. Herein also they somewhat find themselves grieved
that the laity may at every taxation help themselves, and so they do, through consideration
had of their decay and hindrance, and yet their impoverishment cannot but touch also the parson
or vicar, unto whom such liberty is denied, as is daily to be seen in their accounts and tithings.

Some of them also, after the marriages of their children, will have their proportions qualified,
or by friendship get themselves quite out of the book. But what stand I upon these things,
who have rather to complain of the injury offered by some of our neighbours of the laity, which
daily endeavour to bring us also within the compass of their fifteens or taxes for their own
ease, whereas the tax of the whole realm, which is commonly greater in the champagne than woodland
soil, amounteth only to 37,930 pounds ninepence halfpenny, is a burden easy enough to be borne
upon so many shoulders, without the help of the clergy, whose tenths and subsidies make up
commonly a double, if not treble sum unto their aforesaid payments? Sometimes also we are threatened
with a Melius inquirendum, as if our livings were not racked high enough already. But if a
man should seek out where all those church lands which in time past did contribute unto the
old sum required or to be made up, no doubt no small number of the laity of all states should
be contributors also with us, the prince not defrauded of her expectation and right. We are
also charged with armour and munitions from thirty pounds upwards, a thing more needful than
divers other charges imposed upon us are convenient, by which and other burdens our ease groweth
to be more heavy by a great deal (notwithstanding our immunity from temporal services) than
that of the laity, and, for aught that I see, not likely to be diminished, as if the church
were now become the ass whereon every market man is to ride and cast his wallet.

The other payments due unto the archbishop and bishop at their several visitations (of which
the first is double to the latter), and such also as the archdeacon receive that his synods,
etc., remain still as they did without any alteration. Only this I think he added within memory
of man, that at the coming of every prince his appointed officers do commonly visit the whole
realm under the form of an ecclesiastical inquisition, in which the clergy do usually pay double
fees, as unto the archbishop.

Hereby then, and by those already remembered, it is found that the Church of England is no
less commodious to the prince's coffers than the state of the laity, if it do not far exceed
the same, since their payments are certain, continual, and seldom abated, howsoever they gather
up their own duties with grudging, murmuring, suit, and slanderous speeches of the payers,
or have their livings otherwise hardly valued unto the uttermost farthing, or shrewdly cancelled
by the covetousness of the patrons, of whom some do bestow advowsons of benefices upon their
bakers, butlers, cooks, good archers, falconers, and horsekeepers, instead of other recompense,
for their long and faithful service, which they employ afterward unto the most advantage.

Certes here they resemble the pope very much; for, as he sendeth out his idols, so do they
their parasites, pages, chamberlains, stewards, grooms, and lackeys; and yet these be the men
that first exclaim of the insufficiency of the ministers, as hoping thereby in due time to
get also their glebes and grounds into their hands. In times past bishoprics went almost after
the same manner under the lay princes, and then under the pope, so that he which helped a clerk
unto a see was sure to have a present or purse fine, if not an annual pension, besides that
which went to the pope's coffers, and was thought to be very good merchandise.

To proceed therefore with the rest, I think it good also to remember that the names usually
given unto such as feed the flock remain in like sort as in times past, so that these words,
parson, vicar, curate, and such, are not yet abolished more than the canon law itself, which
is daily pleaded, as I have said elsewhere, although the statutes of the realm have greatly
infringed the large scope and brought the exercise of the same into some narrower limits. There
is nothing read in our churches but the canonical Scriptures, whereby it cometh to pass that
the Psalter is said over once in thirty days, the New Testament four times, and the Old Testament
once in the year. And hereunto, if the curate be adjudged by the bishop or his deputies sufficiently
instructed in the holy Scriptures, and therewithal able to teach, he permitteth him to make
some exposition or exhortation in his parish unto amendment of life. And for so much as our
churches and universities have been so spoiled in time of error, as there cannot yet be had
such number of able pastors as may suffice for every parish to have one, there are (beside
four sermons appointed by public order in the year) certain sermons or homilies (devised by
sundry learned men, confirmed for sound doctrine by consent of the divines, and public authority
of the prince), and those appointed to be read by the curates of mean understanding (which
homilies do comprehend the principal parts of Christian doctrine, as of original sin, of justification
by faith, of charity, and such like) upon the Sabbath days unto the congregation. And, after
a certain number of psalms read, which are limited according to the dates of the month, for
morning and evening prayer we have two lessons, whereof the first is taken out of the Old Testament,
the second out of the New; and of these latter, that in the morning is out of the Gospels,
the other in the afternoon out of some one of the Epistles. After morning prayer also, we have
the Litany and suffrages, an invocation in mine opinion not devised without the great assistance
of the Spirit of God, although many curious mind-sick persons utterly condemn it as superstitious,
and savouring of conjuration and sorcery.

This being done, we proceed unto the communion, if any communicants be to receive the Eucharist;
if not, we read the Decalogue, Epistle, and Gospel, with the Nicene Creed (of some in derision
called the "dry communion"), and then proceed unto an homily or sermon, which hath a psalm
before and after it, and finally unto the baptism of such infants as on every Sabbath day (if
occasion so require) are brought unto the churches; and thus is the forenoon bestowed. In the
afternoon likewise we meet again, and, after the psalms and lessons ended, we have commonly
a sermon, or at the leastwise our youth catechised by the space of an hour. And thus do we
spend the Sabbath day in good and godly exercises, all done in our vulgar tongue, that each
one present may hear and understand the same, which also in cathedral and collegiate churches
is so ordered that the psalms only are sung by note, the rest being read (as in common parish
churches) by the minister with a loud voice, saving that in the administration of the communion
the choir singeth the answers, the creed, and sundry other things appointed, but in so plain,
I say, and distinct manner that each one present may understand what they sing, every word
having but one note, though the whole Harmony consist of many parts, and those very cunningly
set by the skilful in that science.

Certes this translation of the service of the church into the vulgar tongue hath not a little
offended the pope almost in every age, as a thing very often attempted by divers princes, but
never generally obtained, for fear lest the consenting thereunto might breed the overthrow
(as it would indeed) of all his religion and hierarchy; nevertheless, in some places where
the kings and princes dwelled not under his nose, it was performed maugre his resistance. Wratislaus,
Duke of Bohemia, would long since have done the like also in his kingdom; but, not daring to
venture so far without the consent of the pope, he wrote unto him thereof, and received his
answer inhibitory unto all his proceeding in the same....

I would set down two or three more of the like instruments passed from that see unto the like
end, but this shall suffice, being less common than the other, which are to be had more plentifully.

As for our churches themselves, bells and times of morning and evening prayer remain as in
times past, saving that all images, shrines, tabernacles, rood-lofts, and monuments of idolatry
are removed, taken down, and defaced, only the stories in glass windows excepted, which, for
want of sufficient store of new stuff, and by reason of extreme charge that should grow by
the alteration of the same into white panes throughout the realm, are not altogether abolished
in most places at once, but by little and little suffered to decay, that white glass may be
provided and set up in their rooms. Finally, whereas there was wont to be a great partition
between the choir and the body of the church, now it is either very small or none at all, and
(to say the truth) altogether needless, sith the minister saith his service commonly in the
body of the church, with his face toward the people, in a little tabernacle of wainscot provided
for the purpose, by which means the ignorant do not only learn divers of the psalms and usual
prayers by heart, but also such as can read do pray together with him, so that the whole congregation
at one instant pour out their petitions unto the living God for the whole estate of His church
in most earnest and fervent manner. Our holy and festival days are very well reduced also unto
a less number; for whereas (not long since) we had under the pope four score and fifteen, called
festival, and thirty profesti, beside the Sundays, they are all brought unto seven and twenty,
and, with them, the superfluous numbers of idle wakes, guilds, fraternities, church-ales, help-ales,
and soul-ales, called also dirge-ales, with the heathenish rioting at bride-ales, are well
diminished and laid aside. And no great matter were it if the feasts of all our apostles, evangelists,
and martyrs, with that of all saints, were brought to the holy days that follow upon Christmas,
Easter, and Whitsuntide, and those of the Virgin Mary, with the rest, utterly removed from
the calendars, as neither necessary nor commendable in a reformed church.

The apparel in like sort of our clergymen is comely, and, in truth, more decent than ever it
was in the popish church, before the universities bound their graduates unto a stable attire,
afterward usurped also even by the blind Sir Johns. For, if you peruse well my Chronology ensuing,
you shall find that they went either in divers colours like players, or in garments of light
hue, as yellow, red, green, etc., with their shoes piked, their hair crisped, their girdles
armed with silver, their shoes, spurs, bridles, etc., buckled with like metal, their apparel
(for the most part) of silk, and richly furred, their caps laced and buttoned with gold, so
that to meet a priest in those days was to behold a peacock that spreadeth his tail when he
danceth before the hen, which now (I say) is well reformed. Touching hospitality, there was
never any greater used in England, sith by reason that marriage is permitted to him that will
choose that kind of life, their meat and drink is more orderly and frugally dressed, their
furniture of household more convenient and better looked unto, and the poor oftener fed generally
than heretofore they have been, when only a few bishops and double or treble beneficed men
did make good cheer at Christmas only, or otherwise kept great houses for the entertainment
of the rich, which did often see and visit them. It is thought much peradventure that some
bishops, etc., in our time do come short of the ancient gluttony and prodigality of their predecessors;
but to such as do consider of the curtailing of their livings, or excessive prices whereunto
things are grown, and how their course is limited by law, and estate looked into on every side,
the cause of their so doing is well enough perceived. This also offended many, that they should,
after their deaths, leave their substances to their wives and children, whereas they consider
not that in old time such as had no lemans nor bastards (very few were there, God wot, of this
sort) did leave their goods and possessions to their brethren and kinsfolks, whereby (as I
can shew by good record) many houses of gentility have grown and been erected. If in any age
some one of them did found a college, almshouse, or school, if you look unto these our times,
you shall see no fewer deeds of charity done, nor better grounded upon the right stub of piety
than before. If you say that their wives be fond, after the decease of their husbands, and
bestow themselves not so advisedly as their calling requireth (which, God knoweth, these curious
surveyors make small account of truth, further than thereby to gather matter of reprehension),
I beseech you then to look into all states of the laity, and tell me whether some duchesses,
countesses, barons' or knights' wives, do not fully so often offend in the like as they? For
Eve will be Eve, though Adam would say nay. Not a few also find fault with our threadbare gowns,
as if not our patrons but our wives were causes of our woe. But if it were known to all that
I know to have been performed of late in Essex, where a minister taking a benefice (of less
than twenty pounds in the Queen's books, so far as I remember) was enforced to pay to his patron
twenty quarters of oats, ten quarters of wheat, and sixteen yearly of barley (which he called
hawks' meat), and another let the like in farm to his patron for ten pounds by the year which
is well worth forty at the least, the cause of our threadbare gowns would easily appear: for
such patrons do scrape the wool from our cloaks. Wherefore I may well say that such a threadbare
minister is either an ill man or hath an ill patron, or both; and when such cooks and cobbling
shifters shall be removed and weeded out of the ministry, I doubt not but our patrons will
prove better men, and be reformed whether they will or not, or else the single-minded bishops
shall see the living bestowed upon such as do deserve it. When the Pragmatic Sanction took
place first in France, it was supposed that these enormities should utterly have ceased; but
when the elections of bishops came once into the hands of the canons and spiritual men, it
grew to be far worse. For they also, within a while waxing covetous, by their own experience
learned aforehand, raised the markets, and sought after new gains by the gifts of the greatest
livings in that country, wherein (as Machiavelli writeth) are eighteen archbishoprics, one
hundred forty and five bishoprics, 740 abbeys, eleven universities, 1,000,700 steeples (if
his report be sound). Some are of the opinion that, if sufficient men in every town might be
sent for from the universities, this mischief would soon be remedied; but I am clean of another
mind. For, when I consider whereunto the gifts of fellowships in some places are grown, the
profit that ariseth at sundry elections of scholars out of grammar schools to the posers, schoolmasters,
and preferers of them to our universities, the gifts of a great number of almshouses builded
for the maimed and impotent soldiers by princes and good men heretofore moved with a pitiful
consideration of the poor distressed, how rewards, pensions, and annuities also do reign in
other cases whereby the giver is brought sometimes into extreme misery, and that not so much
as the room of a common soldier is not obtained oftentimes without a "What will you give me?"
I am brought into such a mistrust of the sequel of this device that I dare pronounce (almost
for certain) that, if Homer were now alive, it should be said to him:

    "Tuque licet venias musis comitatus Homere,
    Si nihil attuleris, ibis Homere foras!"

More I could say, and more I would say, of these and other things, were it not that in mine
own judgment I have said enough already for the advertisement of such as be wise. Nevertheless,
before I finish this chapter, I will add a word or two (so briefly as I can) of the old estate
of cathedral churches, which I have collected together here and there among the writers, and
whereby it shall easily be seen what they were, and how near the government of ours do in these
days approach unto them; for that there is an irreconcilable odds between them and those of
the Papists. I hope there is no learned man indeed but will acknowledge and yield unto it.

We find therefore in the time of the primitive church that there was in every see or jurisdiction
one school at the least, whereunto such as were catechists in Christian religion did resort.
And hereof, as we may find great testimony for Alexandria, Antioch, Rome, and Jerusalem, so
no small notice is left of the like in the inferior sort, if the names of such as taught in
them be called to mind, and the histories well read which make report of the same. These schools
were under the jurisdiction of the bishops, and from thence did they and the rest of the elders
choose out such as were the ripest scholars, and willing to serve in the ministry, whom they
placed also in their cathedral churches, there not only to be further instructed in the knowledge
of the world, but also to inure them to the delivery of the same unto the people in sound manner,
to minister the sacraments, to visit the sick and brethren imprisoned, and to perform such
other duties as then belonged to their charges. The bishop himself and elders of the church
were also hearers and examiners of their doctrine; and, being in process of time found meet
workmen for the Lord's harvest, they were forthwith sent abroad (after imposition of hands
and prayer generally made for their good proceeding) to some place or other then destitute
of her pastor, and other taken from the school also placed in their rooms. What number of such
clerks belonged now and then to some one see, the Chronology following shall easily declare;
and, in like sort, what officers, widows, and other persons were daily maintained in those
seasons by the offerings and oblations of the faithful it is incredible to be reported, if
we compare the same with the decays and oblations seen and practised at this present. But what
is that in all the world which avarice and negligence will not corrupt and impair? And, as
this is a pattern of the estate of the cathedral churches in those times, so I wish that the
like order of government might once again be restored unto the same, which may be done with
ease, sith the schools are already builded in every diocese, the universities, places of their
preferment unto further knowledge, and the cathedral churches great enough to receive so many
as shall come from thence to be instructed unto doctrine. But one hindrance of this is already
and more and more to be looked for (beside the plucking and snatching commonly seen from such
houses and the church), and that is, the general contempt of the ministry, and small consideration
of their former pains taken, whereby less and less hope of competent maintenance by preaching
the word is likely to ensue. Wherefore the greatest part of the more excellent wits choose
rather to employ their studies unto physic and the laws, utterly giving over the study of the
Scriptures, for fear lest they should in time not get their bread by the same. By this means
also the stalls in their choirs would be better filled, which now (for the most part) are empty,
and prebends should be prebends indeed, there to live till they were preferred to some ecclesiastical
function, and then other men chosen to succeed them in their rooms, whereas now prebends are
but superfluous additiments unto former excesses, and perpetual commodities unto the owners,
which before time were but temporal (as I have said before). But as I have good leisure to
wish for these things, so it shall be a longer time before it will be brought to pass. Nevertheless,
as I will pray for a reformation in this behold, so will I here conclude my discourse on the
estate of our churches.

CHAPTER VI

OF THE FOOD AND DIET OF THE ENGLISH

[1577, Book III., Chapter 1; 1587, Book II., Chapter 6.]

The situation of our region, lying near unto the north, doth cause the heat of our stomachs
to be of somewhat greater force: therefore our bodies do crave a little more ample nourishment
than the inhabitants of the hotter regions are accustomed withal, whose digestive force is
not altogether so vehement, because their internal heat is not so strong as ours, which is
kept in by the coldness of the air that from time to time (especially in winter) doth environ
our bodies.

It is no marvel therefore that our tables are oftentimes more plentifully garnished than those
of other nations, and this trade hath continued with us even since the very beginning. For,
before the Romans found out and knew the way unto our country, our predecessors fed largely
upon flesh and milk, whereof there was great abundance in this isle, because they applied their
chief studies unto pasturage and feeding. After this manner also did our Welsh Britons order
themselves in their diet so long as they lived of themselves, but after they became to be united
and made equal with the English they framed their appetites to live after our manner, so that
at this day there is very little difference between us in our diets.

In Scotland likewise they have given themselves (of late years to speak of) unto very ample
and large diet, wherein as for some respect nature doth make them equal with us, so otherwise
they far exceed us in over much and distemperate gormandise, and so ingross their bodies that
divers of them do oft become unapt to any other purpose than to spend their times in large
tabling and belly cheer. Against this pampering of their carcasses doth Hector Boethius in
his description of the country very sharply inveigh in the first chapter of that treatise.
Henry Wardlaw also, bishop of St. Andrews, noting their vehement alteration from competent
frugality into excessive gluttony to be brought out of England with James the First (who had
been long time prisoner there under the fourth and fifth Henries, and at his return carried
divers English gentlemen into his country with him, whom he very honourably preferred there),
doth vehemently exclaim against the same in open Parliament holden at Perth, 1433, before the
three estates, and so bringeth his purpose to pass in the end, by force of his learned persuasions,
that a law was presently made there for the restraint of superfluous diet; amongst other things,
baked meats (dishes never before this man's days seen in Scotland) were generally so provided
for by virtue of this Act that it was not lawful for any to eat of the same under the degree
of a gentleman, and those only but on high and festival days. But, alas, it was soon forgotten!

In old time these north Britons did give themselves universally to great abstinence, and in
time of wars their soldiers would often feed but once or twice at the most in two or three
days (especially if they held themselves in secret, or could have no issue out of their bogs
and marshes, through the presence of the enemy), and in this distress they used to eat a certain
kind of confection, whereof so much as a bean would qualify their hunger above common expectation.
In woods moreover they lived with herbs and roots, or, if these shifts served not through want
of such provision at hand, then used they to creep into the water or said moorish plots up
unto the chins, and there remain a long time, only to qualify the heats of their stomachs by
violence, which otherwise would have wrought and been ready to oppress them for hunger and
want of sustenance. In those days likewise it was taken for a great offence over all to eat
either goose, hare, or hen, because of a certain superstitious opinion which they had conceived
of those three creatures; howbeit after that the Romans, I say, had once found an entrance
into this island it was not long ere open shipwreck was made of this religious observation,
so that in process of time so well the north and south Britons as the Romans gave over to make
such difference in meats as they had done before.

From thenceforth also unto our days, and even in this season wherein we live, there is no restraint
of any meat either for religious sake or public order in England, but it is lawful for every
man to feed upon whatsoever he is able to purchase, except it be upon those days whereon eating
of flesh is especially forbidden by the laws of the realm, which order is taken only to the
end our numbers of cattle may be the better increased and that abundance of fish which the
sea yieldeth more generally received. Besides this, there is great consideration had in making
this law for the preservation of the navy and maintenance of convenient numbers of seafaring
men, both which would otherwise greatly decay if some means were not found whereby they might
be increased. But, howsoever this case standeth, white meats, milk, butter, and cheese (which
were never so dear as in my time, and wont to be accounted of as one of the chief stays throughout
the island) are now reputed as food appertinent only to the inferior sort, whilst such as are
more wealthy do feed upon the flesh of all kinds of cattle accustomed to be eaten, all sorts
of fish taken upon our coasts and in our fresh rivers, and such diversity of wild and tame
fowls as are either bred in our island or brought over unto us from other countries of the main.

In number of dishes and change of meat the nobility of England (whose cooks are for the most
part musical-headed Frenchmen and strangers) do most exceed, sith there is no day in manner
that passeth over their heads wherein they have not only beef, mutton, veal, lamb, kid, pork,
cony, capon, pig, or so many of these as the season yieldeth, but also some portion of the
red or fallow deer, beside great variety of fish and wild fowl, and thereto sundry other delicates
wherein the sweet hand of the seafaring Portugal is not wanting: so that for a man to dine
with one of them, and to taste of every dish that standeth before him (which few used to do,
but each one feedeth upon that meat him best liketh for the time, the beginning of every dish
notwithstanding being reserved unto the greatest personage that sitteth at the table, to whom
it is drawn up still by the waiters as order requireth, and from whom it descendeth again even
to the lower end, whereby each one may taste thereof), is rather to yield unto a conspiracy
with a great deal of meat for the speedy suppression of natural health than the use of a necessary
mean to satisfy himself with a competent repast to sustain his body withal. But, as this large
feeding is not seen in their guests, no more is it in their own persons; for, sith they have
daily much resort unto their tables (and many times unlooked for), and thereto retain great
numbers of servants, it is very requisite and expedient for them to be somewhat plentiful in
this behalf.

The chief part likewise of their daily provision is brought in before them (commonly in silver
vessels, if they be of the degree of barons, bishops, and upwards) and placed on their tables,
whereof, when they have taken what it pleaseth them, the rest is reserved, and afterwards sent
down to their serving men and waiters, who feed thereon in like sort with convenient moderation,
their reversion also being bestowed upon the poor which lie ready at their gates in great numbers
to receive the same. This is spoken of the principal tables whereat the nobleman, his lady,
and guests are accustomed to sit; besides which they have a certain ordinary allowance daily
appointed for their halls, where the chief officers and household servants (for all are not
permitted by custom to wait upon their master), and with them such inferior guests do feed
as are not of calling to associate the nobleman himself; so that, besides those afore-mentioned,
which are called to the principal table, there are commonly forty or three score persons fed
in those halls, to the great relief of such poor suitors and strangers also as oft be partakers
thereof and otherwise like to dine hardly. As for drink, it is usually filled in pots, goblets,
jugs, bowls of silver, in noblemen's houses; also in fine Venice glasses of all forms; and,
for want of these elsewhere, in pots of earth of sundry colours and moulds, whereof many are
garnished with silver, or at the leastwise in pewter, all which notwithstanding are seldom
set on the table, but each one, as necessity urgeth, calleth for a cup of such drink as him
listeth to have, so that, when he has tasted of it, he delivered the cup again to some one
of the standers by, who, making it clean by pouring out the drink that remaineth, restoreth
it to the cupboard from whence he fetched the same. By this device (a thing brought up at the
first by Mnesitheus of Athens, in conservation of the honour of Orestes, who had not yet made
expiation for the death of his adulterous parents, Aegisthus and Clytemnestra) much idle tippling
is furthermore cut off; for, if the full pots should continually stand at the elbow or near
the trencher, divers would always be dealing with them, whereas now they drink seldom, and
only when necessity urgeth, and so avoid the note of great drinking, or often troubling of
the servitors with filling of their bowls. Nevertheless in the noblemen's halls this order
is not used, neither is any man's house commonly under the degree of a knight or esquire of
great revenues. It is a world to see in these our days, wherein gold and silver most aboundeth,
how that our gentility, as loathing those metals (because of the plenty) do now generally choose
rather the Venice glasses, both for our wine and beer, than any of those metals or stone wherein
before time we have been accustomed to drink; but such is the nature of man generally that
it most coveteth things difficult to be attained; and such is the estimation of this stuff
that many become rich only with their new trade unto Murana (a town near to Venice, situate
on the Adriatic Sea), from whence the very best are daily to be had, and such as for beauty
do well near match the crystal or the ancient murrhina vasa whereof now no man hath knowledge.
And as this is seen in the gentility, so in the wealthy communalty the like desire of glass
is not neglected, whereby the gain gotten by their purchase is yet much more increased to the
benefit of the merchant. The poorest also will have glass if they may; but, sith the Venetian
is somewhat too dear for them, they content themselves with such as are made at home of fern
and burned stone; but in fine all go one way--that is, to shards at the last, so that our great
expenses in glasses (beside that they breed much strife toward such as have the charge of them)
are worst of all bestowed in mine opinion, because their pieces do turn unto no profit. If
the philosopher's stone were once found, and one part hereof mixed with forty of molten glass,
it would induce such a metallical toughness thereunto that a fall should nothing hurt it in
such manner; yet it might peradventure bunch or batter it; nevertheless that inconvenience
were quickly to be redressed by the hammer. But whither am I slipped?

The gentlemen and merchants keep much about one rate, and each of them contenteth himself with
four, five, or six dishes, when they have but small resort, or peradventure with one, or two,
or three at the most, when they have no strangers to accompany them at their tables. And yet
their servants have their ordinary diet assigned, beside such as is left at their master's
boards, and not appointed to be brought thither the second time, which nevertheless is often
seen, generally in venison, lamb, or some especial dish, whereon the merchantman himself liketh
to feed when it is cold, or peradventure for sundry causes incident to the feeder is better
so than if it were warm or hot. To be short, at such times as the merchants do make their ordinary
or voluntary feasts, it is a world to see what great provision is made of all manner of delicate
meats, from every quarter of the country, wherein, beside that they are often comparable herein
to the nobility of the land, they will seldom regard anything that the butcher usually killeth,
but reject the same as not worthy to come in place. In such cases also jellies of all colours,
mixed with a variety in the representation of sundry flowers, herbs, trees, forms of beasts,
fish, fowls, and fruits, and thereunto marchpane wrought with no small curiosity, tarts of
divers hues, and sundry denominations, conserves of old fruits, foreign and home-bred, suckets,
codinacs, marmalades, marchpane, sugar-bread, gingerbread, florentines, wild fowls, venison
of all sorts, and sundry outlandish confections, altogether seasoned with sugar (which Pliny
calleth mel ex arundinibus, a device not common nor greatly used in old time at the table,
but only in medicine, although it grew in Arabia, India, and Sicilia), do generally bear the
sway, besides infinite devices of our own not possible for me to remember. Of the potato, and
such venerous roots as are brought out of Spain, Portugal, and the Indies to furnish up our
banquets, I speak not, wherein our mures[1] of no less force, and to be had about Crosby-Ravenswath,
do now begin to have place.

      [1] Sweet cicely, sometimes miscalled myrrh. Mure is the Saxon
      word. At one time the plant was not uncommon as a salad.--W.

But among all these, the kind of meat which is obtained with most difficulty and costs, is
commonly taken for the most delicate, and thereupon each guest will soonest desire to feed.
And as all estates do exceed herein, I mean for strangeness and number of costly dishes, so
these forget not to use the like excess in wine, insomuch as there is no kind to be had, neither
anywhere more store of all sorts than in England, although we have none growing with us but
yearly to the proportion of 20,000 of 30,000 tun and upwards, notwithstanding the daily restraints
of the same brought over unto us, whereof at great meetings there is not some store to be had.
Neither do I mean this of small wines only, as claret, white, red, French, etc., which amount
to about fifty-six sorts, according to the number of regions from whence they came, but also
of the thirty kinds of Italian, Grecian, Spanish, Canarian, etc., whereof vernage, catepument,
raspis, muscadell, romnie, bastard lire, osy caprie, clary, and malmesey, are not least of
all accompted of, because of their strength and valour. For, as I have said in meat, so, the
stronger the wine is, the more it is desired, by means whereof, in old time, the best was called
theologicum, because it was had from the clergy and religious men, unto whose houses many of
the laity would often send for bottles filled with the same, being sure they would neither
drink nor be served of the worst, or such as was any ways mingled or brewed by the vinterer:
nay, the merchant would have thought that his soul should have gone straightway to the devil
if he should have served them with other than the best. Furthermore, when these have had their
course which nature yieldeth, sundry sorts of artificial stuff as ypocras and wormwood wine
must in like manner succeed in their turns, beside stale ale and strong beer, which nevertheless
bear the greatest brunt in drinking, and are of so many sorts and ages as it pleaseth the brewer
to make them.

The beer that is used at noblemen's tables in their fixed and standing houses is commonly a
year old, or peradventure of two years' tunning or more; but this is not general. It is also
brewed in March, and therefore called March beer; but, for the household, it is usually not
under a month's age, each one coveting to have the same stale as he may, so that it be not
sour, and his bread new as is possible, so that it be not hot.

The artificer and husbandman makes greatest account of such meat as they may soonest come by,
and have it quickliest ready, except it be in London when the companies of every trade do meet
on their quarter days, at which time they be nothing inferior to the nobility. This also is
commonly seen at these banquets, that the good man of the house is not charged with anything
saving bread, drink, sauce, house-room, and fire. But the artificers in cities and good towns
do deal far otherwise; for, albeit that some of them do suffer their jaws to go oft before
their claws, and divers of them, by making good cheer, do hinder themselves and other men,
yet the wiser sort can handle the matter well enough in these junketings, and therefore their
frugality deserveth commendation. To conclude, both the artificer and the husbandman are sufficiently
liberal, and very friendly at their tables; and, when they meet, they are so merry without
malice, and plain without inward Italian or French craft and subtlety, that it would do a man
good to be in company among them. Herein only are the inferior sort somewhat to be blamed,
that, being thus assembled, their talk is now and then such as savoureth of scurrility and
ribaldry, a thing naturally incident to carters and clowns, who think themselves not to be
merry and welcome if their foolish veins in this behalf be never so little restrained. This
is moreover to be added in these meetings, that if they happen to stumble upon a piece of venison
and a cup of wine or very strong beer or ale (which latter they commonly provide against their
appointed days), they think their cheer so great, and themselves to have fared so well, as
the Lord Mayor of London, with whom, when their bellies be full, they will not often stick
to make comparison, because that of a subject there is no public officer of any city in Europe
that may compare in port and countenance with him during the time of his office.

I might here talk somewhat of the great silence that is used at the tables of the honourable
and wiser sort generally over all the realm (albeit that too much deserveth no commendation,
for it belongeth to guests neither to be muti nor loquaces[2]), likewise of the moderate eating
and drinking that is daily seen, and finally of the regard that each one hath to keep himself
from the note of surfeiting and drunkenness (for which cause salt meat, except beef, bacon,
and pork, are not any whit esteemed, and yet these three may not be much powdered); but, as
in rehearsal thereof I should commend the nobleman, merchant, and frugal artificer, so I could
not clear the meaner sort of husbandmen and country inhabitants of very much babbling (except
it be here and there some odd yeoman), with whom he is thought to be the merriest that talketh
of most ribaldry or the wisest man that speaketh fastest among them, and now and then surfeiting
and drunkenness which they rather fall into for want of heed taking than wilfully following
or delighting in those errors of set mind and purpose. It may be that divers of them living
at home, with hard and pinching diet, small drink, and some of them having scarce enough of
that, are soonest overtaken when they come into such banquets, howbeit they take it generally
as no small disgrace if they happen to be cupshotten, so that it is a grief unto them, though
now sans remedy, sith the thing is done and past. If the friends also of the wealthier sort
come to their houses from far, they are commonly so welcome till they depart as upon the first
day of their coming; whereas in good towns and cities, as London, etc., men oftentimes complain
of little room, and, in reward of a fat capon or plenty of beef and mutton largely bestowed
upon them in the country, a cup of wine or beer with a napkin to wipe their lips and an "You
are heartily welcome!" is thought to be a great entertainment; and therefore the old country
clerks have framed this saying in that behalf, I mean upon the entertainment of townsmen and
Londoners after the days of their abode, in this manner:

    "Primus jucundus, tollerabilis estque secundus,
    Tertius est vanus, sed fetet quatriduanus."

      [2] Neither "silent" nor "garrulous."

      [3] A famine at hand is first seen in the horse-manger, when
      the poor do fall to horse corn.--H.

Of bread made of wheat we have sundry sorts daily brought to the table, whereof the first and
most excellent is the manchet, which we commonly call white bread, in Latin primarius panis,
whereof Budeus also speaketh, in his first book De asse; and our good workmen deliver commonly
such proportion that of the flour of one bushel with another they make forty cast of manchet,
of which every loaf weigheth eight ounces into the oven, and six ounces out, as I have been
informed. The second is the cheat or wheaten bread, so named because the colour thereof resembleth
the grey or yellowish wheat, being clean and well dressed, and out of this is the coarsest
of the bran (usually called gurgeons or pollard) taken. The ravelled is a kind of cheat bread
also, but it retaineth more of the gross, and less of the pure substance of the wheat; and
this, being more slightly wrought up, is used in the halls of the nobility and gentry only,
whereas the other either is or should be baked in cities and good towns of an appointed size
(according to such price as the corn doth bear), and by a statute provided by King John in
that behalf.[4] The ravelled cheat therefore is generally so made that out of one bushel of
meal, after two and twenty pounds of bran be sifted and taken from it (whereunto they add the
gurgeons that rise from the manchet), they make thirty cast, every loaf weighing eighteen ounces
into the oven, and sixteen ounces out; and, beside this, they so handle the matter that to
every bushel of meal they add only two and twenty, or three and twenty, pound of water, washing
also (in some houses) their corn before it go to the mill, whereby their manchet bread is more
excellent in colour, and pleasing to the eye, than otherwise it would be. The next sort is
named brown bread, of the colour of which we have two sorts one baked up as it cometh from
the mill, so that neither the bran nor the flour are any whit diminished; this, Celsus called
autopirus panis, lib. 2, and putteth it in the second place of nourishment. The other hath
little or no flour left therein at all, howbeit he calleth it Panem Cibarium, and it is not
only the worst and weakest of all the other sorts, but also appointed in old time for servants,
slaves, and the inferior kind of people to feed upon. Hereunto likewise, because it is dry
and brickle in the working (for it will hardly be made up handsomely into loaves), some add
a portion of rye meal in our time, whereby the rough dryness or dry roughness thereof is somewhat
qualified, and then it is named miscelin, that is, bread made of mingled corn, albeit that
divers do sow or mingle wheat and rye of set purpose at the mill, or before it come there,
and sell the same at the markets under the aforesaid name.

      [4] The size of bread is very ill kept or not at all looked
      unto in the country towns or markets.--H.

In champaign countries much rye and barley bread is eaten, but especially where wheat is scant
and geson. As for the difference that it is between the summer and winter wheat, most husbandmen
know it not, sith they are neither acquainted with summer wheat nor winter barley; yet here
and there I find of both sorts, specially in the north and about Kendal, where they call it
March wheat, and also of summer rye, but in so small quantities as that I dare not pronounce
them to be greatly common among us.

Our drink, whose force and continuance is partly touched already, is made of barley, water,
and hops, sodden and mingled together, by the industry of our brewers in a certain exact proportion.
But, before our barley do come into their hands, it sustaineth great alteration, and is converted
into malt, the making whereof I will here set down in such order as my skill therein may extend
unto (for I am scarce a good maltster), chiefly for that foreign writers have attempted to
describe the same, and the making of our beer, wherein they have shot so far wide, as the quantity
of ground was between themselves and their mark. In the meantime bear with me, gentle reader
(I beseech thee), that lead thee from the description of the plentiful diet of our country
unto the fond report of a servile trade, or rather from a table delicately furnished into a
musty malt-house; but such is now thy hap, wherefore I pray thee be contented.

Our malt is made all the year long in some great towns; but in gentlemen's and yeomen's houses,
who commonly make sufficient for their own expenses only, the winter half is thought most meet
for that commodity: howbeit the malt that is made when the willow doth bud is commonly worst
of all. Nevertheless each one endeavoureth to make it of the best barley, which is steeped
in a cistern, in greater or less quantity, by the space of three days and three nights, until
it be thoroughly soaked. This being done, the water is drained from it by little and little,
till it be quite gone. Afterward they take it out, and, laying it upon the clean floor on a
round heap, it resteth so until it be ready to shoot at the root end, which maltsters call
combing. When it beginneth therefore to shoot in this manner, they say it is come, and then
forthwith they spread it abroad, first thick, and afterwards thinner and thinner upon the said
floor (as it combeth), and there it lieth (with turning every day four or five times) by the
space of one and twenty days at the least, the workmen not suffering it in any wise to take
any heat, whereby the bud end should spire, that bringeth forth the blade, and by which oversight
or hurt of the stuff itself the malt would be spoiled and turn small commodity to the brewer.
When it hath gone, or been turned, so long upon the floor, they carry it to a kiln covered
with hair cloth, where they give it gentle heats (after they have spread it there very thin
abroad) till it be dry, and in the meanwhile they turn it often, that it may be uniformly dried.
For the more it be dried (yet must it be done with soft fire) the sweeter and better the malt
is, and the longer it will continue, whereas, if it be not dried down (as they call it), but
slackly handled, it will breed a kind of worm called a weevil, which groweth in the flour of
the corn, and in process of time will so eat out itself that nothing shall remain of the grain
but even the very rind or husk.

The best malt is tried by the hardness and colour; for, if it look fresh with a yellow hue,
and thereto will write like a piece of chalk, after you have bitten a kernel in sunder in the
midst, then you may assure yourself that it is dried down. In some places it is dried at leisure
with wood alone or straw alone, in others with wood and straw together; but, of all, the straw
dried is the most excellent. For the wood-dried malt when it is brewed, beside that the drink
is higher of colour, it doth hurt and annoy the head of him that is not used thereto, because
of the smoke. Such also as use both indifferently do bark, cleave, and dry their wood in an
oven, thereby to remove all moisture that should procure the fume; and this malt is in the
second place, and, with the same likewise, that which is made with dried furze, broom, etc.:
whereas, if they also be occupied green, they are in manner so prejudicial to the corn as is
the moist wood. And thus much of our malts, in brewing whereof some grind the same somewhat
grossly, and, in seething well the liquor that shall be put into it, they add to every nine
quarters of malt one of headcorn (which consisteth of sundry grain, as wheat and oats ground).
But what have I to do with this matter, or rather so great a quantity, wherewith I am not acquainted?
Nevertheless, sith I have taken occasion to speak of brewing, I will exemplify in such a proportion
as I am best skilled in, because it is the usual rate for mine own family, and once in a month
practised by my wife and her maid-servants, who proceed withal after this manner, as she hath
oft informed me.

Having therefore ground eight bushels of good malt upon our quern, where the toll is saved,
she addeth unto it half a bushel of wheat meal, and so much of oats small ground, and so tempereth
or mixeth them with the malt that you cannot easily discern the one from the other; otherwise
these latter would clunter, fall into lumps, and thereby become unprofitable. The first liquor
(which is full eighty gallons, according to the proportion of our furnace) she maketh boiling
hot, and then poureth it softly into the malt, where it resteth (but without stirring) until
her second liquor be almost ready to boil. This done, she letteth her mash run till the malt
be left without liquor, or at the leastwise the greatest part of the moisture, which she perceiveth
by the stay and soft issue thereof; and by this time her second liquor in the furnace is ready
to seethe, which is put also to the malt, as the first woort also again into the furnace, whereunto
she addeth two pounds of the best English hops, and so letteth them seethe together by the
space of two hours in summer or an hour and a half in winter, whereby it getteth an excellent
colour, and continuance without impeachment or any superfluous tartness. But, before she putteth
her first woort into the furnace, or mingleth it with the hops, she taketh out a vessel full,
of eight or nine gallons, which she shutteth up close, and suffereth no air to come into it
till it become yellow, and this she reserveth by itself unto further use, as shall appear hereafter,
calling it brackwoort or charwoort, and, as she saith, it addeth also to the colour of the
drink, whereby it yieldeth not unto amber or fine gold in hue unto the eye. By this time also
her second woort is let run; and, the first being taken out of the furnace, and placed to cool,
she returneth the middle woort unto the furnace, where it is stricken over, or from whence
it is taken again, when it beginneth to boil, and mashed the second time, whilst the third
liquor is heat (for there are three liquors), and this last put into the furnace, when the
second is mashed again. When she hath mashed also the last liquor (and set the second to cool
by the first), she letteth it run, and then seetheth it again with a pound and a half of new
hops, or peradventure two pounds, as she seeth cause by the goodness or baseness of the hops,
and, when it hath sodden, in summer two hours, and in winter an hour and a half, she striketh
it also, and reserveth it unto mixture with the rest when time doth serve therefore. Finally,
when she setteth her drink together, she addeth to her brackwoort or charwoort half an ounce
of arras, and half a quarter of an ounce of bayberries, finely powdered, and then, putting
the same into her woort, with a handful of wheat flour, she proceedeth in such usual order
as common brewing requireth, Some, instead of arras and bays, add so much long pepper only,
but, in her opinion and my liking, it is not so good as the first, and hereof we make three
hogsheads of good beer, such (I mean) as is meet for poor men as I am to live withal, whoso
small maintenance (for what great thing is forty pounds a year, computatis computandis, able
to perform?) may endure no deeper cut, the charges whereof groweth in this manner. I value
my malt at ten shillings, my wood at four shillings (which I buy), my hops at twenty pence,
the spice at twopence, servants' wages two shillings sixpence, with meat and drink, and the
wearing of my vessel at twenty pence, so that for my twenty shillings I have ten score gallons
of beer or more, notwithstanding the loss in seething, which some, being loth to forego, do
not observe the time, and therefore speed thereafter in their success, and worthily. The continuance
of the drink is always determined after the quantity of the hops, so that being well hopt it
lasteth longer. For it feedeth upon the hop, and holdeth out so long as the force of the same
continueth, which being extinguished, the drink must be spent, or else it dieth and becometh
of no value.

In this trade also our brewers observe very diligently the nature of the water, which they
daily occupy, and soil through which it passeth, for all waters are not of like goodness, sith
the fattest standing water is always the best; for, although the waters that run by chalk or
cledgy soils be good, and next unto the Thames water, which is the most excellent, yet the
water that standeth in either of these is the best for us that dwell in the country, as whereon
the sun lieth longest, and fattest fish is bred. But, of all other, the fenny and marsh is
the worst, and the clearest spring water next unto it. In this business therefore the skilful
workman doth redeem the iniquity of that element, by changing of his proportions, which trouble
in ale (sometime our only, but now taken with many for old and sick men's drink) is never seen
nor heard of. Howbeit, as the beer well sodden in the brewing, and stale, is clear and well
coloured as muscadel or malvesey, or rather yellow as the gold noble, as our pot-knights call
it, so our ale, which is not at all or very little sodden, and without hops, is more thick,
fulsome, and of no such continuance, which are three notable things to be considered in that
liquor. But what for that? Certes I know some ale-knights so much addicted thereunto that they
will not cease from morrow until even to visit the same, cleansing house after house, till
they defile themselves, and either fall quite under the board, or else, not daring to stir
from their stools, sit still pinking with their narrow eyes, as half sleeping, till the fume
of their adversary be digested that he may go to it afresh. Such slights also have the ale-wives
for the utterance of this drink that they will mix it with rosen and salt; but if you heat
a knife red-hot, and quench it in the ale so near the bottom of the pot as you can put it,
you shall see the rosen come forth hanging on the knife. As for the force of salt, it is well
known by the effect, for the more the drinker tippleth, the more he may, and so doth he carry
off a dry drunken noll to bed with him, except his luck be the better. But to my purpose.

In some places of England there is a kind of drink made of apples which they call cider or
pomage, but that of pears is called perry, and both are ground and pressed in presses made
for the nonce. Certes these two are very common in Sussex, Kent, Worcester, and other steeds
where these sorts of fruit do abound, howbeit they are not their only drink at all times, but
referred unto the delicate sorts of drink, as metheglin is in Wales, whereof the Welshmen make
no less account (and not without cause, if it be well handled) than the Greeks did of their
ambrosia or nectar, which for the pleasantness thereof was supposed to be such as the gods
themselves did delight in. There is a kind of swish-swash made also in Essex, and divers other
places, with honeycombs and water, which the homely country wives, putting some pepper and
a little other spice among, call mead, very good in mine opinion for such as love to be loose
bodied at large, or a little eased of the cough. Otherwise it differeth so much from the true
metheglin as chalk from cheese. Truly it is nothing else but the washing of the combs, when
the honey is wrung out, and one of the best things that I know belonging thereto is that they
spend but little labour, and less cost, in making of the same, and therefore no great loss
if it were never occupied. Hitherto of the diet of my countrymen, and somewhat more at large
peradventure than many men will like of, wherefore I think good now to finish this tractation,
and so will I when I have added a few other things incident unto that which goeth before, whereby
the whole process of the same shall fully be delivered, and my promise to my friend[5] in this
behalf performed.

      [5] Holinshed. This occurs in the last of Harrison's prefatory
      matter.--W.

Heretofore there hath been much more time spent in eating and drinking than commonly is in
these days; for whereas of old we had breakfast in the forenoon, beverages or nunchions[6]
after dinner, and thereto rear suppers generally when it was time to go to rest (a toy brought
into England by hardy Canutus, and a custom whereof Athenaeus also speaketh, lib. 1, albeit
Hippocrates speaks but of twice at the most, lib. 2, De rat vict. in feb ac). Now, these odd
repasts--thanked be God!--are very well left, and each one in manner (except here and there
some young, hungry stomach that cannot fast till dinner-time) contenteth himself with dinner
and supper only. The Normans, misliking the gormandise of Canutus, ordained after their arrival
that no table should be covered above once in the day, which Huntingdon imputeth to their avarice;
but in the end, either waxing weary of their own frugality, or suffering the cockle of old
custom to overgrow the good corn of their new constitution, they fell to such liberty that
in often-feeding they surmounted Canutus surnamed the Hardy. For, whereas he covered his table
but three or four times in the day, these spread their cloths five or six times, and in such
wise as I before rehearsed. They brought in also the custom of long and stately sitting at
meat, whereby their feasts resembled those ancient pontifical banquets whereof Macrobius speaketh
(lib. 3, cap. 13), and Pliny (lib. 10, cap. 10), and which for sumptuousness of fare, long
sitting, and curiosity shewed in the same, exceeded all other men's feasting; which fondness
is not yet left with us, notwithstanding that it proveth very beneficial for the physicians,
who most abound where most excess and misgovernment of our bodies do appear, although it be
a great expense of time, and worthy of reprehension. For the nobility, gentlemen, and merchantmen,
especially at great meetings, do sit commonly till two or three of the clock at afternoon,
so that with many it is a hard matter to rise from the table to go to evening prayer, and return
from thence to come time enough to supper.[7]...

      [6] This word is not obsolete. South coast countrymen still
      eat nuntions and not luncheons.--W.

      [7] Here follows a disquisition upon the table practices of
      the ancients.--W.

With us the nobility, gentry, and students do ordinarily go to dinner at eleven before noon,
and to supper at five, or between five and six at afternoon. The merchants dine and sup seldom
before twelve at noon, and six at night, especially in London. The husbandmen dine also at
high noon as they call it, and sup at seven or eight; but out of the term in our universities
the scholars dine at ten. As for the poorest sort they generally dine and sup when they may,
so that to talk of their order of repast it were but a needless matter. I might here take occasion
also to set down the variety used by antiquity in their beginnings of their diets, wherein
almost every nation had a several fashion, some beginning of custom (as we do in summer time)
with salads at supper, and some ending with lettuce, some making their entry with eggs, and
shutting up their tables with mulberries, as we do with fruit and conceits of all sorts. Divers
(as the old Romans) began with a few crops of rue, as the Venetians did with the fish called
gobius; the Belgres with butter, or (as we do yet also) with butter and eggs upon fish days.
But whereas we commonly begin with the most gross food, and end with the most delicate, the
Scot, thinking much to leave the best for his menial servants, maketh his entrance at the best,
so that he is sure thereby to leave the worst. We use also our wines by degrees, so that the
hostess cometh last to the table: but to stand upon such toys would spend much time, and turn
to small profit. Wherefore I will deal with other things more necessary for this turn.

CHAPTER VII

OF OUR APPAREL AND ATTIRE

[1577, Book III., Chapter 2; 1587, Book II., Chapter 7.]

An Englishman, endeavouring sometime to write of our attire, made sundry platforms for his
purpose, supposing by some of them to find out one steadfast ground whereon to build the sum
of his discourse. But in the end (like an orator long without exercise), when he saw what a
difficult piece of work he had taken in hand, he gave over his travel, and only drew the picture
of a naked man[1], unto whom he gave a pair of shears in the one hand and a piece of cloth
in the other, to the end he should shape his apparel after such fashion as himself liked, sith
he could find no kind of garment that could please him any while together; and this he called
an Englishman. Certes this writer (otherwise being a lewd popish hypocrite and ungracious priest)
shewed himself herein not to be altogether void of judgment, sith the phantastical folly of
our nation (even from the courtier to the carter) is such that no form of apparel liketh us
longer than the first garment is in the wearing, if it continue so long, and be not laid aside
to receive some other trinket newly devised by the fickle-headed tailors, who covet to have
several tricks in cutting, thereby to draw fond customers to more expense of money. For my
part, I can tell better how to inveigh against this enormity than describe any certainty of
our attire; sithence such is our mutability that to-day there is none to the Spanish guise,
to-morrow the French toys are most fine and delectable, ere long no such apparel as that which
is after the high Almaine fashion, by-and-by the Turkish manner is generally best liked of,
otherwise the Morisco gowns, the Barbarian fleeces, the mandilion worn to Colley-Weston ward,
and the short French breeches make such a comely vesture that, except it were a dog in a doublet,
you shall not see any so disguised as are my countrymen of England. And as these fashions are
diverse, so likewise it is a world to see the costliness and the curiosity, the excess and
the vanity, the pomp and the bravery, the change and the variety, and finally the fickleness
and the folly, that is in all degrees, insomuch that nothing is more constant in England than
inconstancy of attire. Oh, how much cost is bestowed nowadays upon our bodies, and how little
upon our souls! How many suits of apparel hath the one, and how little furniture hath the other!
How long time is asked in decking up of the first, and how little space left wherein to feed
the latter! How curious, how nice also, are a number of men and women, and how hardly can the
tailor please them in making it fit for their bodies! How many times must it be sent back again
to him that made it! What chafing, what fretting, what reproachful language, doth the poor
workman bear away! And many times when he doth nothing to it at all, yet when it is brought
home again it is very fit and handsome; then must we put it on, then must the long seams of
our hose be set by a plumb-line, then we puff, then we blow, and finally sweat till we drop,
that our clothes may stand well upon us. I will say nothing of our heads, which sometimes are
polled, sometimes curled, or suffered to grow at length like woman's locks, many times cut
off, above or under the ears, round as by a wooden dish. Neither will I meddle with our variety
of beards, of which some are shaven from the chin like those of Turks, not a few cut short
like to the beard of Marquess Otto, some made round like a rubbing brush, others with a pique
de vant (O! fine fashion!), or now and then suffered to grow long, the barbers being grown
to be so cunning in this behalf as the tailors. And therefore if a man have a lean and straight
face, a Marquess Otton's cut will make it broad and large; if it be platter-like, a long, slender
beard will make it seem the narrower; if he be weasel-becked, then much hair left on the cheeks
will make the owner look big like a bowdled hen, and as grim as a goose, if Cornells of Chelmersford
say true. Many old men do wear no beards at all. Some lusty courtiers also and gentlemen of
courage do wear either rings of gold, stones, or pearl, in their ears, whereby they imagine
the workmanship of God not to be a little amended. But herein they rather disgrace than adorn
their persons, as by their niceness in apparel, for which I say most nations do not unjustly
deride us, as also for that we do seem to imitate all nations round about us, wherein we be
like to the polypus or chameleon; and thereunto bestow most cost upon our arses, and much more
than upon all the rest of our bodies, as women do likewise upon their heads and shoulders.
In women also, it is most to be lamented, that they do now far exceed the lightness of our
men (who nevertheless are transformed from the cap even to the very shoe), and such staring
attire as in time past was supposed meet for none but light housewives only is now become a
habit for chaste and sober matrons. What should I say of their doublets with pendant codpieces
on the breast full of jags and cuts, and sleeves of sundry colours? Their galligascons to bear
out their bums and make their attire to fit plum round (as they term it) about them. Their
fardingals, and diversely coloured nether stocks of silk, jerdsey, and such like, whereby their
bodies are rather deformed than commended? I have met with some of these trulls in London so
disguised that it hath passed my skill to discern whether they were men or women.

      [1] (COS.)

        "I am an English man and naked I stand here,
        Musying in my mynde what rayment I shall were;
        For now I will were thys, and now I will were that;
        Now I will were I cannot tell what.
        All new fashyons be plesaunt in me;
        I wyl haue them, whether I thryve or thee."

      From Andrew Boorde's Introduction (1541), and Dyetary (1542),
      edited by F.J.F. for Early English Text Society, 1870, p. 116. (A
      most quaint and interesting volume, though I say so.)--Furnivall.

Thus it is now come to pass, that women are become men, and men transformed into monsters;
and those good gifts which Almighty God hath given unto us to relieve our necessities withal
(as a nation turning altogether the grace of God into wantonness, for

  "Luxuriant animi rebus plerunque fecundis,")

not otherwise bestowed than in all excess, as if we wist not otherwise how to consume and waste
them. I pray God that in this behalf our sin be not like unto that of Sodom and Gomorrah, whose
errors were pride, excess of diet, and abuse of God's benefits abundantly bestowed upon them,
beside want of charity towards the poor, and certain other points which the prophet shutteth
up in silence. Certes the commonwealth cannot be said to nourish where these abuses reign,
but is rather oppressed by unreasonable exactions made upon rich farmers, and of poor tenants,
wherewith to maintain the same. Neither was it ever merrier with England than when an Englishman
was known abroad by his own cloth, and contented himself at home with his fine carsey hosen,
and a mean slop; his coat, gown, and cloak of brown, blue, or puke, with some pretty furniture
of velvet or fur, and a doublet of sad tawny, or black velvet, or other comely silk, without
such cuts and garish colours as are worn in these days, and never brought in but by the consent
of the French, who think themselves the gayest men when they have most diversities of jags
and change of colours about them. Certes of all estates our merchants do least alter their
attire, and therefore are most to be commended; for albeit that which they wear be very fine
and costly, yet in form and colour it representeth a great piece of the ancient gravity appertaining
to citizens and burgesses, albeit the younger sort of their wives, both in attire and costly
housekeeping, cannot tell when and how to make an end, as being women indeed in whom all kind
of curiosity is to be found and seen, and in far greater measure than in women of higher calling.
I might here name a sort of hues devised for the nonce, wherewith to please fantastical heads,
as goose-turd green, peas-porridge tawny, popingay blue, lusty gallant, the devil-in-the-head
(I should say the hedge), and such like; but I pass them over, thinking it sufficient to have
said thus much of apparel generally, when nothing can particularly be spoken of any constancy
thereof.

CHAPTER VIII

OF THE MANNER OF BUILDING AND FURNITURE OF OUR HOUSES

[1577, Book II., Chapter 10; 1587, Book II., Chapter 12.]

The greatest part of our building in the cities and good towns of England consisteth only of
timber, for as yet few of the houses of the communalty (except here and there in the West-country
towns) are made of stone, although they may (in my opinion) in divers other places be builded
so good cheap of the one as of the other. In old time the houses of the Britons were slightly
set up with a few posts and many raddles, with stable and all offices under one roof, the like
whereof almost is to be seen in the fenny countries and northern parts unto this day, where
for lack of wood they are enforced to continue this ancient manner of building. It is not in
vain, therefore, in speaking of building, to make a distinction between the plain and woody
soils; for as in these, our houses are commonly strong and well-timbered (so that in many places
there are not above four, six, or nine inches between stud and stud), so in the open champaign
countries they are forced, for want of stuff, to use no studs at all, but only frankposts,
raisins, beams, prickposts, groundsels, summers (or dormants), transoms, and such principals,
with here and there a girding, whereunto they fasten their splints or raddles, and then cast
it all over with thick clay to keep out the wind, which otherwise would annoy them. Certes
this rude kind of building made the Spaniards in Queen Mary's days to wonder, but chiefly when
they saw what large diet was used in many of these so homely cottages; insomuch that one of
no small reputation amongst them said after this manner--"These English (quoth he) have their
houses made of sticks and dirt, but they fare commonly so well as the king." Whereby it appeareth
that he liked better of our good fare in such coarse cabins than of their own thin diet in
their prince-like habitations and palaces. In like sort as every country house is thus apparelled
on the outside, so is it inwardly divided into sundry rooms above and beneath; and, where plenty
of wood is, they cover them with tiles, otherwise with straw, sedge, or reed, except some quarry
of slate be near hand, from whence they have for their money much as may suffice them. The
clay wherewith our houses are impannelled is either white, red, or blue; and of these the first
doth participate very much of the nature of our chalk; the second is called loam; but the third
eftsoons changeth colour as soon as it is wrought, notwithstanding that it looks blue when
it is thrown out of the pit. Of chalk also we have our excellent asbestos or white lime, made
in most places, wherewith being quenched, we strike over our clay works and stone walls, in
cities, good towns, rich farmers' and gentlemen's houses: otherwise, instead of chalk (where
it wanteth, for it is so scant that in some places it is sold by the pound), they are compelled
to burn a certain kind of red stone, as in Wales, and elsewhere other stones and shells of
oysters and like fish found upon the sea coast, which, being converted into lime, doth naturally
(as the other) abhor and eschew water, whereby it is dissolved, and nevertheless desire oil,
wherewith it is easily mixed, as I have seen by experience. Within their doors also, such as
are of ability do oft make their floors and parget of fine alabaster burned, which they call
plaster of Paris, whereof in some places we have great plenty, and that very profitable against
the rage of fire. In plastering likewise of our fairest houses over our heads, we use to lay
first a line or two of white mortar, tempered with hair, upon laths, which are nailed one by
another (or sometimes upon reed of wickers more dangerous for fire, and make fast here and
there saplaths for falling down), and finally cover all with the aforesaid plaster, which,
beside the delectable whiteness of the stuff itself, is laid on so even and smoothly as nothing
in my judgment can be done with more exactness. The walls of our houses on the inner sides
in like sort be either hanged with tapestry, arras work, or painted cloths, wherein either
divers histories, or herbs, beasts, knots, and such like are stained, or else they are ceiled
with oak of our own, or wainscot brought hither out of the east countries, whereby the rooms
are not a little commended, made warm, and much more close than otherwise they would be. As
for stoves, we have not hitherto used them greatly, yet do they now begin to be made in divers
houses of the gentry and wealthy citizens, who build them not to work and feed in, as in Germany
and elsewhere, but now and then to sweat in, as occasion and need shall require it.

This also hath been common in England, contrary to the customs of all other nations, and yet
to be seen (for example, in most streets of London), that many of our greatest houses have
outwardly been very simple and plain to sight, which inwardly have been able to receive a duke
with his whole train, and lodge them at their ease. Hereby, moreover, it is come to pass that
the fronts of our streets have not been so uniform and orderly builded as those of foreign
cities, where (to say truth) the outer side of their mansions and dwellings have oft more cost
bestowed upon them than all the rest of the house, which are often very simple and uneasy within,
as experience doth confirm. Of old time, our country houses, instead of glass, did use much
lattice, and that made either of wicker or fine rifts of oak in checkerwise. I read also that
some of the better sort, in and before the times of the Saxons (who notwithstanding used some
glass also since the time of Benedict Biscop, the monk that brought the feat of glazing first
into this land), did make panels of horn instead of glass, and fix them in wooden calmes. But
as horn in windows is now quite laid down in every place, so our lattices are also grown into
less use, because glass is come to be so plentiful, and within a very little so good cheap,
if not better than the other. I find obscure mention of the specular stone also to have been
found and applied to this use in England, but in such doubtful sort as I dare not affirm it
for certain. Nevertheless certain it is that antiquity used it before glass was known, under
the name of selenites. And how glass was first found I care not greatly to remember, even at
this present, although it be directly beside my purposed matter. In Syria Phenices, which bordereth
upon Jewry, and near to the foot of Mount Carmel, there is a moor or marsh whereout riseth
a brook called sometime Belus, and falleth into the sea near to Ptolemais. This river was fondly
ascribed unto Baal, and also honoured under that name by the infidels long time before there
was any king in Israel. It came to pass also, as a certain merchant sailed that way, loaden
with nitrum, the passengers went to land for to repose themselves, and to take in some store
of fresh water into their vessel. Being also on the shore, they kindled a fire and made provision
for their dinner, but (because they wanted trevets or stones whereon to set their kettles on)
ran by chance into the ship, and brought great pieces of nitrum with them, which served their
turn for that present. To be short, the said substance being hot, and beginning to melt, it
mixed by chance with the gravel that lay under it, and so brought forth that shining substance
which now is called glass, and about the time of Semiramis. When the company saw this, they
made no small accompt of their success, and forthwith began to practise the like in other mixtures,
whereby great variety of the said stuff did also ensue. Certes for the time this history may
well be true, for I read of glass in Job; but, for the rest, I refer me to the common opinion
conceived by writers. Now, to turn again to our windows. Heretofore also the houses of our
princes and noblemen were often glazed with beryl (an example whereof is yet to be seen in
Sudeley Castle) and in divers other places with fine crystal, but this especially in the time
of the Romans, whereof also some fragments have been taken up in old ruins. But now these are
not in use, so that only the clearest glass is most esteemed: for we have divers sorts, some
brought out of Burgundy, some out of Normandy, much out of Flanders, beside that which is made
in England, which would be so good as the best if we were diligent and careful to bestow more
cost upon it, and yet as it is each one that may will have it for his building. Moreover the
mansion houses of our country towns and villages (which in champaign ground stand altogether
by streets, and joining one to another, but in woodland soils dispersed here and there, each
one upon the several grounds of their owners) are builded in such sort generally as that they
have neither dairy, stable, nor brew-house annexed unto them under the same roof (as in many
places beyond the sea and some of the north parts of our country), but all separate from the
first, and one of them from another. And yet, for all this, they are not so far distant in
sunder but that the goodman lying in his bed may lightly hear what is done in each of them
with ease, and call quickly unto his many if any danger should attack him.

The ancient manors and houses of our gentlemen are yet and for the most part of strong timber,
in framing whereof our carpenters have been and are worthily preferred before those of like
science among all other nations. Howbeit such as be lately builded are commonly either of brick
or hard stone, or both, their rooms large and comely, and houses of office further distant
from their lodgings. Those of the nobility are likewise wrought with brick and hard stone,
as provision may best be made, but so magnificent and stately as the basest house of a baron
doth often match in our days with some honours of a princes in old time. So that, if ever curious
building did flourish in England, it is in these our years wherein our workmen excel and are
in manner comparable in skill with old Vitruvius, Leo Baptista, and Serlo. Nevertheless their
estimation, more than their greedy and servile covetousness, joined with a lingering humour,
causeth them often to be rejected, and strangers preferred to greater bargains, who are more
reasonable in their takings, and less wasters of time by a great deal than our own.

The furniture of our houses also exceedeth, and is grown in manner even to passing delicacy:
and herein I do not speak of the nobility and gentry only, but likewise of the lowest sort
in most places of our south country that have anything at all to take to. Certes in noblemen's
houses it is not rare to see abundance of arras, rich hangings of tapestry, silver vessels,
and so much other plate as may furnish sundry cupboards to the sum oftentimes of a thousand
or two thousand pounds at the least, whereby the value of this and the rest of their stuff
doth grow to be almost inestimable. Likewise in the houses of knights, gentlemen, merchantmen,
and some other wealthy citizens, it is not geson to behold generally their great provision
of tapestry, Turkey work, pewter, brass, fine linen, and thereto costly cupboards of plate,
worth five or six hundred or a thousand pounds to be deemed by estimation. But, as herein all
these sorts do far exceed their elders and predecessors, and in neatness and curiosity the
merchant all other, so in times past the costly furniture stayed there, whereas now it is descended
yet lower even unto the inferior artificers and many farmers, who, by virtue of their old and
not of their new leases, have, for the most part, learned also to garnish their cupboards with
plate, their joined beds with tapestry and silk hangings, and their tables with carpets and
fine napery, whereby the wealth of our country (God be praised therefore, and give us grace
to employ it well) doth infinitely appear. Neither do I speak this in reproach of any man,
God is my judge, but to shew that I do rejoice rather to see how God hath blessed us with his
good gifts; and whilst, I behold how (in a time wherein all things are grown to most excessive
prices, and what commodity so ever is to be had is daily plucked from the communalty by such
as look into every trade) we do yet find the means to obtain and achieve such furniture as
heretofore hath been unpossible.

There are old men yet dwelling in the village where I remain which have noted three things
to be marvellously altered in England within their sound remembrance, and other three things
too too much increased.

One is the multitude of chimneys lately erected, whereas in their young days there were not
above two or three, if so many, in most uplandish towns of the realm (the religious houses
and manor places of their lords always excepted, and peradventure some great personages), but
each one made his fire against a reredos in the hall, where he dined and dressed his meat.

The second is the great (although not general) amendment of lodging; for, said they, our fathers,
yea and we ourselves also, have lain full oft upon straw pallets, on rough mats covered only
with a sheet, under coverlets made of dagswain or hopharlots (I use their own terms), and a
good round log under their heads instead of a bolster or pillow. If it were so that our fathers--or
the good man of the house had within seven years after his marriage purchased a mattress or
flock bed, and thereto a stack of chaff to rest his head upon, he thought himself to be as
well lodged as the lord of the town, that peradventure lay seldom in a bed of down or whole
feathers, so well were they content, and with such base kind of furniture: which also is not
very much amended as yet in some parts of Bedfordshire, and elsewhere, further off from our
southern parts. Pillows (said they) were thought meet only for women in childbed. As for servants,
if they had any sheet above them, it was well, for seldom had they any under their bodies to
keep them from the pricking straws that ran oft through the canvas of the pallet and rased
their hardened hides.

The third thing they tell of is the exchange of vessel, as of treen platters into pewter, and
wooden spoons into silver or tin. For so common were all sorts of treen stuff in old time that
a man should hardly find four pieces of pewter (of which one was peradventure a salt) in a
good farmer's house, and yet for all this frugality (if it may so be justly called) they were
scarce able to live and pay their rents at their days without selling of a cow, or a horse
or more,[1] although they paid but four pounds at the uttermost by the year. Such also was
their poverty that, if some one odd farmer or husbandman had been at the ale-house, a thing
greatly used in those days, amongst six or seven of his neighbours, and there in a bravery,
to shew what store he had, did cast down his purse, and therein a noble or six shillings in
silver, unto them (for few such men then cared for gold, because it was not so ready payment,
and they were oft enforced to give a penny for the exchange of an angel), it was very likely
that all the rest could not lay down so much against it; whereas in my time, although peradventure
four pounds of old rent be improved to forty, fifty, or a hundred pounds, yet will the farmer,
as another palm of date tree, think his gains very small toward the end of his term if he have
not six or seven years' rent lying by him, therewith to purchase a new lease, beside a fair
garnish of pewter oft his cupboard, with so much more in odd vessel going about the house,
three or four feather beds, so many coverlids and carpets of tapestry, a silver salt, a bowl
for wine (if not a whole neast), and a dozen of spoons to furnish up the suit. This also he
takes to be his own clear, for what stock of money soever he gathereth and layeth up in all
his years it is often seen that the landlord will take such order with him for the same when
he reneweth his lease, which is commonly eight or six years before the old be expired (sith
it is now grown almost to a custom that if he come not to his lord so long before another shall
step in for a reversion, and so defeat him outright), that it shall never trouble him more
than the hair of his beard when the barber hath washed and shaved it from his chin. The third
thing they talk of is usury, a trade brought in by the Jews, now perfectly practised almost
by every Christian, and so commonly that he is accompted but for a fool that doth lend his
money for nothing. In time past it was sors pro sorte--that is, the principal only for the
principal; but now, beside that which is above the principal properly called Usura, we challenge
Foenus--that is, commodity of soil and fruits of the earth, If not the ground itself. In time
past also one of the hundred was much; from thence it rose unto two, called in Latin Usura,
Ex sextante; three, to wit Ex quadrante; then to four, to wit, Ex triente; then to five, which
is Ex quincunce; then to six, called Ex semisse, etc. As the accompt of the Assis ariseth,
and coming at the last unto Usura ex asse, it amounteth to twelve in the hundred, and therefore
the Latins call it Centesima, for that in the hundred month it doubleth the principal; but
more of this elsewhere. See Cicero against Verres, Demosthenes against Aphobus, and Athenaeus,
lib. 13, in fine; and, when thou hast read them well, help I pray thee in lawful manner to
hang up such as take Centum pro cento, for they are no better worthy as I do judge in conscience.
Forget not also such landlords as used to value their leases at a secret estimation given of
the wealth and credit of the taker, whereby they seem (as it were) to eat them up, and deal
with bondmen, so that if the lessee be thought to be worth a hundred pounds he shall pay no
less for his new term, or else another to enter with hard and doubtful covenants. I am sorry
to report it, much more grieved to understand of the practice, but most sorrowful of all to
understand that men of great port and countenance are so far from suffering their farmers to
have any gain at all that they themselves become graziers, butchers, tanners, sheepmasters,
woodmen, and denique quid non, thereby to enrich themselves, and bring all the wealth of the
country into their own hands, leaving the communalty weak, or as an idol with broken or feeble
arms, which may in a time of peace have a plausible shew, but when necessity shall enforce
have a heavy and bitter sequel.

CHAPTER IX

OF PROVISION MADE FOR THE POOR

[1577, Book III., Chapter 5; 1587, Book II., Chapter 10.]

There is no commonwealth at this day in Europe wherein there is not great store of poor people,
and those necessarily to be relieved by the wealthier sort, which otherwise would starve and
come to utter confusion. With us the poor is commonly divided into three sorts, so that some
are poor by impotence, as the fatherless child, the aged, blind, and lame, and the diseased
person that is judged to be incurable; the second are poor by casualty, as the wounded soldier,
the decayed householder, and the sick person visited with grievous and painful diseases; the
third consisteth of thriftless poor, as the rioter that hath consumed all, the vagabond that
will abide nowhere, but runneth up and down from place to place (as it were seeking work and
finding none), and finally the rogue and the strumpet, which are not possible to be divided
in sunder, but run to and fro over all the realm, chiefly keeping the champaign soils in summer
to avoid the scorching heat, and the woodland grounds in winter to eschew the blustering winds.

For the first two sorts (that is to say, the poor by impotence and poor by casualty, which
are the true poor indeed, and for whom the Word doth bind us to make some daily provision),
there is order taken throughout every parish in the realm that weekly collection shall be made
for their help and sustentation--to the end they shall not scatter abroad, and, by begging
here and there, annoy both town and country. Authority also is given unto the justices in every
county (and great penalties appointed for such as make default) to see that the intent of the
statute in this behalf be truly executed according to the purpose and meaning of the same,
so that these two sorts are sufficiently provided for; and such as can live within the limits
of their allowance (as each one will do that is godly and well disposed) may well forbear to
roam and range about. But if they refuse to be supported by this benefit of the law, and will
rather endeavour by going to and fro to maintain their idle trades, then are they adjudged
to be parcel of the third sort, and so, instead of courteous refreshing at home, are often
corrected with sharp execution and whip of justice abroad. Many there are which, notwithstanding
the rigour of the laws provided in that behalf, yield rather with this liberty (as they call
it) to be daily under the fear and terror of the whip than, by abiding where they were born
or bred, to be provided for by the devotion of the parishes. I found not long since a note
of these latter sort, the effect whereof ensueth. Idle beggars are such either through other
men's occasion or through their own default--by other men's occasion (as one way for example)
when some covetous man (such, I mean, as have the cast or right vein daily to make beggars
enough whereby to pester the land, espying a further commodity in their commons, holds, and
tenures) doth find such means as thereby to wipe many out of their occupyings and turn the
same unto his private gains.[1] Hereupon it followeth that, although the wise and better-minded
do either forsake the realm for altogether, and seek to live in other countries, as France,
Germany, Barbary, India, Muscovia, and very Calcutta, complaining of no room to be left for
them at home, do so behave themselves that they are worthily to be accounted among the second
sort, yet the greater part, commonly having nothing to stay upon, are wilful, and thereupon
do either prove idle beggars or else continue stark thieves till the gallows do eat them up,
which is a lamentable case. Certes in some men's judgment these things are but trifles, and
not worthy the regarding. Some also do grudge at the great increase of people in these days,
thinking a necessary brood of cattle far better than a superfluous augmentation of mankind.
But I can liken such men best of all unto the pope and the devil, who practise the hindrance
of the furniture of the number of the elect to their uttermost, to the end the authority of
the one upon the earth, the deferring of the locking up of the other in everlasting chains,
and the great gains of the first, may continue and endure the longer. But if it should come
to pass that any foreign invasion should be made--which the Lord God forbid for his mercies'
sake!--then should these men find that a wall of men is far better than stacks of corn and
bags of money, and complain of the want when it is too late to seek remedy. The like occasion
caused the Romans to devise their law Agraria: but the rich, not liking of it, and the covetous,
utterly condemning it as rigorous and unprofitable, never ceased to practise disturbance till
it was quite abolished. But to proceed with my purpose.

      [1] At whose hands shall the blood of these men be required?--H.

Such as are idle beggars through their own default are of two sorts, and continue their estates
either by casual or mere voluntary means: those that are such by casual means are in the beginning
justly to be referred either to the first or second sort of poor aforementioned, but, degenerating
into the thriftless sort, they do what they can to continue their misery, and, with such impediments
as they have, to stray and wander about, as creatures abhorring all labour and every honest
exercise. Certes I call these casual means, not in the respect of the original of all poverty,
but of the continuance of the same, from whence they will not be delivered, such is their own
ungracious lewdness and froward disposition. The voluntary means proceed from outward causes,
as by making of corrosives, and applying the same to the more fleshy parts of their bodies,
and also laying of ratsbane, spearwort, crowfoot, and such like unto their whole members, thereby
to raise pitiful and odious sores, and move the hearts of the goers-by such places where they
lie, to yearn at their misery, and thereupon bestow large alms upon them. How artificially
they beg, what forcible speech, and how they select and choose out words of vehemence, whereby
they do in manner conjure or adjure the goer-by to pity their cases, I pass over to remember,
as judging the name of God and Christ to be more conversant in the mouths of none and yet the
presence of the Heavenly Majesty further off from no men than from this ungracious company.
Which maketh me to think that punishment is far meeter for them than liberality or alms, and
sith Christ willeth us chiefly to have a regard to Himself and his poor members.

Unto this nest is another sort to be referred, more sturdy than the rest, which, having sound
and perfect limbs, do yet notwithstanding sometime counterfeit the possession of all sorts
of diseases. Divers times in their apparel also they will be like serving men or labourers:
oftentimes they can play the mariners, and seek for ships which they never lost. But in fine
they are all thieves and caterpillars in the commonwealth, and by the Word of God not permitted
to eat, sith they do but lick the sweat from the true labourers' brows, and bereave the godly
poor of that which is due unto them, to maintain their excess, consuming the charity of well-disposed
people bestowed upon them, after a most wicked and detestable manner.

It is not yet full threescore years since this trade began: but how it hath prospered since
that time it is easy to judge, for they are now supposed, of one sex and another, to amount
unto above 10,000 persons, as I have heard reported. Moreover, in counterfeiting the Egyptian
rogues, they have devised a language among themselves, which they name "Canting," but others,
"pedler's French," a speech compact thirty years since, of English and a great number of odd
words of their own devising, without all order or reason, and yet such is it as none but themselves
are able to understand. The first deviser thereof was hanged by the neck--a just reward, no
doubt, for his deserts, and a common end to all of that profession.

A gentleman also of late hath taken great pains to search out the secret practices of this
ungracious rabble. And among other things he setteth down and describeth three and twenty sorts
of them, whose names it shall not be amiss to remember whereby each one may take occasion to
read and know as also by his industry what wicked people they are, and what villainy remaineth
in them.

The several disorders and degrees amongst our idle vagabonds.

 1. Rufflers.
 2. Uprightmen.
 3. Hookers or anglers.
 4. Rogues.
 5. Wild rogues.
 6. Priggers or pransers.
 7. Palliards.
 8. Fraters.
 9. Abrams.
10. Freshwater mariners or whipjacks.
11. Drummerers.
12. Drunken tinkers.
13. Swadders or pedlers.
14. Jarkemen or patricoes.

Of the women kind.

1. Demanders for glimmar or fire. 2. Bawdy-baskets. 3. Mortes. 4. Autem mortem. 5. Walking
mortes. 6. Doxies. 7. Dells. 8. Kinching mortes. 9. Kinching cooes.

The punishment that is ordained for this kind of people is very sharp, and yet it cannot restrain
them from their gadding: wherefore the end must needs be martial law,[2] to be exercised upon
them, as upon thieves, robbers, despisers of all laws, and enemies to the commonwealth and
welfare of the land. What notable robberies, pilferies, murders, rapes, and stealings of young
children, burning, breaking, and disfiguring their limbs to make them pitiful in the sight
of the people, I need not to rehearse; but for their idle rogueing about the country, the law
ordaineth this manner of correction. The rogue being apprehended, committed to prison, and
tried in the next assizes (whether they be of gaol delivery or sessions of the peace), if he
happen to be convicted for a vagabond, either by inquest of office or the testimony of two
honest and credible witnesses upon their oaths, he is then immediately adjudged to be grievously
whipped and burned through the gristle of the right ear with a hot iron of the compass of an
inch about, as a manifestation of his wicked life, and due punishment received for the same.
And this judgment is to be executed upon him except some honest person worth five pounds in
the queen's books in goods, or twenty shillings in land, or some rich householder to be allowed
by the justices, will be bound in recognisance to retain him in his service for one whole year.
If he be taken the second time, and proved to have forsaken his said service, he shall then
be whipped again, bored likewise through the other ear, and set to service: from whence if
he depart before a year be expired, and happen afterwards to be attached again, he is condemned
to suffer pains of death as a felon (except before excepted) without benefit of clergy or sanctuary,
as by the statute doth appear. Among rogues and idle persons, finally, we find to be comprised
all proctors that go up and down with counterfeit licences, cozeners, and such as gad about
the country, using unlawful games, practisers of physiogonomy and palmestry, tellers of fortunes,
fencers, players, minstrels, jugglers, pedlers, tinkers, pretended scholars, shipmen, prisoners
gathering for fees, and others so oft as they be taken without sufficient licence. From among
which company our bearwards are not excepted, and just cause: for I have read that they have,
either voluntarily or for want of power to master their savage beasts, been occasion of the
death and devouration of many children in sundry countries by which they have passed, whose
parents never knew what was become of them. And for that cause there is and have been many
sharp laws made for bearwards in Germany, whereof you may read in other. But to our rogues.
Each one also that harboureth or aideth them with meat or money is taxed and compelled to fine
with the queen's majesty for every time that he doth succour them as it shall please the justices
of peace to assign, so that the taxation exceed not twenty, as I have been informed. And thus
much of the poor and such provision as is appointed for them within the realm of England.

      [2] Law of the Marshal.--Furnivall.

CHAPTER X

OF THE AIR AND SOIL AND COMMODITIES OF THIS ISLAND

[1577, Book I., Chapter 13; 1587, Book I., Chapter 18.]

The air (for the most part) throughout the island is such as by reason in manner of continual
clouds is reputed to be gross, and nothing so pleasant as that of the main. Howbeit, as they
which affirm these things have only respect to the impediment or hindrance of the sunbeams
by the interposition of the clouds and of ingrossed air, so experience teacheth us that it
is no less pure, wholesome, and commodious than is that of other countries, and (as Caesar
himself hereto addeth) much more temperate in summer than that of the Gauls, from whom he adventured
hither. Neither is there any thing found in the air of our region that is not usually seen
amongst other nations lying beyond the seas. Wherefore we must needs confess that the situation
of our island (for benefit of the heavens) is nothing inferior to that of any country of the
main, wheresoever it lie under the open firmament. And this Plutarch knew full well, who affirmeth
a part of the Elysian Fields to be found in Britain, and the isles that are situated about
it in the ocean.

The soil of Britain is such as by the testimonies and reports both of the old and new writers,
and experience also of such as now inhabit the same, is very fruitful, and such indeed as bringeth
forth many commodities, whereof other countries have need, and yet itself (if fond niceness
were abolished) needless of those that are daily brought from other places. Nevertheless it
is more inclined to feeding and grazing than profitable for tillage and bearing of corn, by
reason whereof the country is wonderfully replenished with neat and all kind of cattle; and
such store is there also of the same in every place that the fourth part of the land is scarcely
manured for the provision and maintenance of grain. Certes this fruitfulness was not unknown
unto the Britons long before Caesar's time, which was the cause wherefore our predecessors
living in those days in manner neglected tillage and lived by feeding and grazing only. The
graziers themselves also then dwelled in movable villages by companies, whose custom was to
divide the ground amongst them, and each one not to depart from the place where his lot lay
(a thing much like the Irish Criacht) till, by eating up of the country about him, he was enforced
to remove further and seek for better pasture. And this was the British custom, as I learn,
at first. It hath been commonly reported that the ground of Wales is neither so fruitful as
that of England, neither the soil of Scotland so bountiful as that of Wales, which is true
for corn and for the most part; otherwise there is so good ground in some parts of Wales as
is in England, albeit the best of Scotland be scarcely comparable to the mean of either of
both. Howbeit, as the bounty of the Scotch doth fail in some respect, so doth it surmount in
other, God and nature having not appointed all countries to yield forth like commodities.

But where our ground is not so good as we would wish, we have--if need be--sufficient help
to cherish our ground withal, and to make it more fruitful. For, beside the compest that is
carried out of the husbandmen's yards, ditches, ponds, dung-houses, or cities and great towns,
we have with us a kind of white marl which is of so great force that if it be cast over a piece
of land but once in threescore years it shall not need of any further compesting. Hereof also
doth Pliny speak (lib. 17, cap. 6, 7, 8), where he affirmeth that our marl endureth upon the
earth by the space of fourscore years: insomuch that it is laid upon the same but once in a
man's life, whereby the owner shall not need to travel twice in procuring to commend and better
his soil. He calleth it marga, and, making divers kinds thereof, he finally commendeth ours,
and that of France, above all other, which lieth sometime a hundred foot deep, and far better
than the scattering of chalk upon the same, as the Hedui and Pictones did in his time, or as
some of our days also do practise: albeit divers do like better to cast on lime, but it will
not so long endure, as I have heard reported.

There are also in this island great plenty of fresh rivers and streams, as you have heard already,
and these thoroughly fraught with all kinds of delicate fish accustomed to be found in rivers.
The whole isle likewise is very full of hills, of which some (though not very many) are of
exceeding height, and divers extending themselves very far from the beginning; as we may see
by Shooter's Hill, which, rising east of London and not far from the Thames, runneth along
the south side of the island westward until it come to Cornwall. Like unto these also are the
Crowdon Hills, which, though under divers names (as also the other from the Peak), do run into
the borders of Scotland. What should I speak of the Cheviot Hills, which reach twenty miles
in length? of the Black Mountains in Wales, which go from ([1]) to ([1]) miles at the least
in length? of the Clee Hills in Shropshire, which come within four miles of Ludlow, and are
divided from some part of Worcester by the Leme? of the Crames in Scotland, and of our Chiltern,
which are eighteen miles at the least from one end of them, which reach from Henley in Oxfordshire
to Dunstable in Bedfordshire, and are very well replenished with wood and corn, notwithstanding
that the most part yield a sweet short grass, profitable for sheep? Wherein albeit they of
Scotland do somewhat come behind us, yet their outward defect is inwardly recompensed, not
only with plenty of quarries (and those of sundry kinds of marble, hard stone, and fine alabaster),
but also rich mines of metal, as shall be shewed hereafter.

      [1] Here lacks.--H.

In this island the winds are commonly more strong and fierce than in any other places of the
main (which Cardane also espied): and that is often seen upon the naked hills not guarded with
trees to bear and keep it off. That grievous inconvenience also enforceth our nobility, gentry,
and communality to build their houses in the valleys, leaving the high grounds unto their corn
and cattle, lest the cold and stormy blasts of winter should breed them greater annoyance;
whereas in other regions each one desireth to set his house aloft on the hill, not only to
be seen afar off, and cast forth his beams of stately and curious workmanship into every quarter
of the country, but also (in hot habitations) for coldness sake of the air, sith the heat is
never so vehement on the hill-top as in the valley, because the reverberation of the sun's
beams either reacheth not so far as the highest, or else becometh not so strong as when it
is reflected upon the lower soil.

But to leave our buildings unto the purposed place (which notwithstanding have very much increased,
I mean for curiosity and cost, in England, Wales, and Scotland, within these few years) and
to return to the soil again. Certainly it is even now in these our days grown to be much more
fruitful than it hath been in times past. The cause is for that our countrymen are grown to
be more painful, skilful, and careful through recompense of gain, than heretofore they have
been: insomuch that my synchroni or time fellows can reap at this present great commodity in
a little room; whereas of late years a great compass hath yielded but small profit, and this
only through the idle and negligent occupation of such as daily manured and had the same in
occupying. I might set down examples of these things out of all the parts of this island--that
is to say, many of England, more out of Scotland, but most of all out of Wales; in which two
last rehearsed, very other little food and livelihood was wont to be looked for (beside flesh)
more than the soil of itself and the cow gave, the people in the meantime living idly, dissolutely,
and by picking and stealing one from another. All which vices are now (for the most part) relinquished,
so that each nation manureth her own with triple commodity to that it was before time.

The pasture of this island is according to the nature and bounty of the soil, whereby in most
places it is plentiful, very fine, batable, and such as either fatteth our cattle with speed
or yieldeth great abundance of milk and cream whereof the yellowest butter and finest cheese
are made. But where the blue clay aboundeth (which hardly drinketh up the winter's water in
long season) there the grass is speary, rough, and very apt for bushes: by which occasion it
becometh nothing so profitable unto the owner as the other. The best pasture ground of all
England is in Wales, and of all the pasture in Wales that of Cardigan is the chief. I speak
of the same which is to be found in the mountains there, where the hundredth part of the grass
growing is not eaten, but suffered to rot on the ground, whereby the soil becometh matted and
divers bogs and quickmoors made withal in long continuance: because all the cattle in the country
are not able to eat it down. If it be accounted good soil on which a man may lay a wand over
night and on the morrow find it hidden and overgrown with grass, it is not hard to find plenty
thereof in many places of this land. Nevertheless such is the fruitfulness of the aforesaid
county that it far surmounteth this proportion, whereby it may be compared for batableness
with Italy, which in my time is called the paradise of the world, although by reason of the
wickedness of such as dwell therein it may be called the sink and drain of hell; so that whereas
they were wont to say of us that our land is good but our people evil, they did but only speak
it; whereas we know by experience that the soil of Italy is a noble soil, but the dwellers
therein far off any virtue or goodness.

Our meadows are either bottoms (whereof we have great store, and those very large, because
our soil is hilly) or else such as we call land meads, and borrowed from the best and fattest
pasturages. The first of them are yearly and often overflown by the rising of such streams
as pass through the same, or violent falls of land-waters, that descend from the hills about
them. The other are seldom or never overflown, and that is the cause wherefore their grass
is shorter than that of the bottoms, and yet is it far more fine, wholesome, and batable, sith
the hay of our low meadows is not only full of sandy cinder, which breedeth sundry diseases
in our cattle, but also more rowty, foggy, and full of flags, and therefore not so profitable
for store and forrage as the higher meads be. The difference furthermore in their commodities
is great; for, whereas in our land meadows we have not often above one good load of hay, or
peradventure a little more in an acre of ground (I use the word carrucata, or carruca, which
is a wain load, and, as I remember, used by Pliny, lib. 33, cap. 2), in low meadows we have
sometimes three, but commonly two or upwards, as experience hath oft confirmed.

Of such as are twice mowed I speak not, sith their later math is not so wholesome for cattle
as the first; although in the mouth more pleasant for the time: for thereby they become oftentimes
to be rotten, or to increase so fast in blood, that the garget and other diseases do consume
many of them before the owners can seek out any remedy, by phlebotomy or otherwise. Some superstitious
fools suppose that they which die of the garget are ridden with the nightmare, and therefore
they hang up stones which naturally have holes in them, and must be found unlooked for; as
if such a stone were an apt cockshot for the devil to run through and solace himself withal,
while the cattle go scot-free and are not molested by him! But if I should set down but half
the toys that superstition hath brought into our husbandmen's heads in this and other behalf,
it would ask a greater volume than is convenient for such a purpose, wherefore it shall suffice
to have said thus much of these things.

The yield of our corn-ground is also much after this rate following. Throughout the land (if
you please to make an estimate thereof by the acre) in mean and indifferent years, wherein
each acre of rye or wheat, well tilled and dressed, will yield commonly sixteen or twenty bushels,
an acre of barley six-and-thirty bushels, of oats and such like four or five quarters, which
proportion is notwithstanding oft abated toward the north, as it is oftentimes surmounted in
the south. Of mixed corn, as peas and beans, sown together, tares and oats (which they call
bulmong), rye and wheat (named miscelin), here is no place to speak, yet their yield is nevertheless
much after this proportion, as I have often marked. And yet is not this our great foison comparable
to that of hotter countries of the main. But, of all that I ever read, the increase which Eldred
Danus writeth of in his De imperie Judaeorum in Aethiopia surmounteth, where he saith that
in the field near to the Sabbatike river, called in old time Gosan, the ground is so fertile
that every grain of barley growing doth yield an hundred kernels at the least unto the owner.

Of late years also we have found and taken up a great trade in planting of hops, whereof our
moory hitherto and unprofitable grounds do yield such plenty and increase that there are few
farmers or occupiers in the country which have not gardens and hops growing of their own, and
those far better than do come from Flanders unto us. Certes the corruptions used by the Flemings,
and forgery daily practised in this kind of ware, gave us occasion to plant them here at home;
so that now we may spare and send many over unto them. And this I know by experience, that
some one man by conversion of his moory grounds into hopyards, whereof before he had no commodity,
doth raise yearly by so little as twelve acres in compass two hundred marks--all charges borne
towards the maintenance of his family. Which industry God continue! though some secret friends
of Flemings let not to exclaim against this commodity, as a spoil of wood, by reason of the
poles, which nevertheless after three years do also come to the fire, and spare their other fuel.

The cattle which we breed are commonly such as for greatness of bone, sweetness of flesh, and
other benefits to be reaped by the same, give place unto none other; as may appear first by
our oxen, whose largeness, height, weight, tallow, hides, and horns are such as none of any
other nation do commonly or may easily exceed them. Our sheep likewise, for good taste of flesh,
quantity of limbs, fineness of fleece, caused by their hardness of pasturage and abundance
of increase (for in many places they bring forth two or three at an caning), give no place
unto any, more than do our goats, who in like sort do follow the same order, and our deer come
not behind. As for our conies, I have seen them so fat in some soils, especially about Meall
and Disnege, that the grease of one being weighed hath peised very near six or seven ounces.
All which benefits we first refer to the grace and goodness of God, and next of all unto the
bounty of our soil, which he hath endued with so notable and commodious fruitfulness.

But, as I mean to intreat of these things more largely hereafter, so will I touch in this place
one benefit which our nation wanteth, and that is wine, the fault whereof is not in our soil,
but the negligence of our countrymen (especially of the south parts), who do not inure the
same to this commodity, and which by reason of long discontinuance is now become inapt to bear
any grapes almost for pleasure and shadow, much less then the plain fields or several vineyards
for advantage and commodity. Yet of late time some have essayed to deal for wine (as to your
lordship also is right well known). But sith that liquor, when it cometh to the drinking, hath
been found more hard than that which is brought from beyond the sea, and the cost of planting
and keeping thereof so chargeable that they may buy it far better cheap from other countries,
they have given over their enterprises without any consideration that, as in all other things,
so neither the ground itself in the beginning, nor success of their travel, can answer their
expectation at the first, until such time as the soil be brought as it were into acquaintance
with this commodity, and that provision may be made for the more easiness of charge to be employed
upon the same.

If it be true that where wine doth last and endure well there it will grow no worse, I muse
not a little wherefore the planting of vines should be neglected in England. That this liquor
might have grown in this island heretofore, first the charter that Probus the Emperor gave
equally to us, the Gauls, and Spaniards, is one sufficient testimony. And that it did grow
here (beside the testimony of Beda, lib. 1., cap. 1) the old notes of tithes for wine that
yet remain in the accounts of some parsons and vicars in Kent, elsewhere, besides the records
of sundry suits, commenced in divers ecclesiastical courts, both in Kent, Surrey, etc., also
the enclosed parcels almost in every abbey yet called the vineyards, may be a notable witness,
as also the plot which we now call East Smithfield in London, given by Canutus, sometime king
of this land, with other soil thereabout, unto certain of his knights, with the liberty of
a Guild which thereof was called Knighton Guild. The truth is (saith John Stow, our countryman
and diligent traveller in the old estate of this my native city) that it is now named Portsoken
Ward, and given in time past to the religious house within Aldgate. Howbeit first Otwell, the
archovel, Otto, and finally Geffrey Earl of Essex, constables of the of London, withheld that
portion from the said house until the reign of King Stephen, and thereof made a vineyard to
their great commodity and lucre. The Isle of Ely also was in the first times of the Normans
called Le Ile des Vignes. And good record appeareth that the bishop there had yearly three
or four tun at the least given him nomine decimæ, beside whatsoever over-sum of the liquor
did accrue to him by leases and other excheats whereof also I have seen mention. Wherefore
our soil is not to be blamed, as though our nights were so exceeding short that in August and
September the moon, which is lady of moisture and chief ripener of this liquor, cannot in any
wise shine long enough upon the same: a very mere toy and fable, right worthy to be suppressed,
because experience convinceth the upholders thereof even in the Rhenish wines.

The time hath been also that woad, wherewith our countrymen dyed their faces (as Cæsar saith),
that they might seem terrible to their enemies in the field (and also women and their daughters-in-law
did stain their bodies and go naked, in that pickle, to the sacrifices of their gods, coveting
to resemble therein the Ethiopians, as Pliny saith, [lib. 22, cap. 1]), and also madder have
been (next unto our tin and wools) the chief commodities and merchandise of this realm, I find
also that rape oil hath been made within this land. But now our soil either will not, or at
the leastwise may not, bear either woad or madder. I say not that the ground is not able so
to do, but that we are negligent, afraid of the pilling of our grounds, and careless of our
own profits, as men rather willing to buy the same of others than take any pain to plant them
here at home. The like I may say of flax, which by law ought to be sown in every country town
in England, more or less; but I see no success of that good and wholesome law; sith it is rather
contemptuously rejected than otherwise dutifully kept in any place in England.

Some say that our great number of laws do breed a general negligence and contempt of all good
order, because we have so many that no subject can live without the transgression of some of
them, and that the often alteration of our ordinances doth much harm in this respect, which
(after Aristotle) doth seem to carry some reason withal, for (as Cornelius Gallus hath)--

  "Eventus varios res nova semper habet."[1]

      [1] "An innovation, has always mixed effects."

But very many let not to affirm that the greedy corruption of the promoters on the one side,
facility in dispensing with good laws and first breach of the same in the lawmakers and superiors
and private respects of their establishment on the other, are the greatest causes why the inferiors
regard no good order, being always so ready to offend without any faculty one way as they are
otherwise to presume upon the examples of their betters when any hold is to be taken. But as
in these things I have no skill, so I wish that fewer licences for the private commodity but
of a few were granted (not that thereby I deny the maintenance of the prerogative royal, but
rather would with all my heart that it might be yet more honourably increased), and that every
one which by fee'd friendship (or otherwise) doth attempt to procure ought from the prince
that may profit but few and prove hurtful to many might be at open assizes and sessions denounced
enemy to his country and commonwealth of the land.

Glass also hath been made here in great plenty before, and in the time of the Romans; and the
said stuff also, beside fine scissors, shears, collars of gold and silver for women's necks,
cruises and cups of amber, were a parcel of the tribute which Augustus in his days laid upon
this island. In like sort he charged the Britons with certain implements and vessels of ivory
(as Strabo saith); whereby it appeareth that in old time our countrymen were far more industrious
and painful in the use and application of the benefits of their country than either after the
coming of the Saxons or Normans, in which they gave themselves more to idleness and following
of the wars.

If it were requisite that I should speak of the sundry kinds of mould, as the cledgy, or clay,
whereof are divers sorts (red, blue, black, and white), also the red or white sandy, the loamy,
roselly, gravelly, chalky, or black, I could say that there are so many divers veins in Britain
as elsewhere in any quarter of like quantity in the world. Howbeit this I must need confess,
that the sand and clay do bear great sway: but clay most of all, as hath been and yet is always
seen and felt through plenty and dearth of corn. For if this latter (I mean the clay) do yield
her full increase (which it doth commonly in dry years for wheat), then is there general plenty:
whereas if it fail, then have we scarcity, according to the old rude verse set down of England,
but to be understood of the whole island, as experience doth confirm--

  "When the sand doth serve the clay,
  Then may we sing well-away;
  But when the clay doth serve the sand,
  Then is it merry with England."

I might here intreat of the famous valleys in England, of which one is called the Vale of White
Horse, another of Evesham (commonly taken for the granary of Worcestershire), the third of
Aylesbury, that goeth by Thame, the roots of Chiltern Hills, to Dunstable, Newport Pagnel,
Stony Stratford, Buckingham, Birstane Park, etc. Likewise of the fourth, of Whitehart or Blackmoor
in Dorsetshire. The fifth, of Ringdale or Renidale, corruptly called Kingtaile, that lieth
(as mine author saith) upon the edge of Essex and Cambridgeshire, and also the Marshwood Vale:
but, forsomuch as I know not well their several limits, I give over to go any further in their
description. In like sort it should not be amiss to speak of our fens, although our country
be not so full of this kind of soil as the parts beyond the seas (to wit, Narbonne, etc.),
and thereto of other pleasant bottoms, the which are not only endued with excellent rivers
and great store of corn and fine fodder for neat and horses in time of the year (whereby they
are exceeding beneficial unto their owners), but also of no small compass and quantity in ground.
For some of our fens are well known to be either of ten, twelve, sixteen, twenty, or thirty
miles in length, that of the Girwies yet passing all the rest, which is full sixty (as I have
often read). Wherein also Ely, the famous isle, standeth, which is seven miles every way, and
whereunto there is no access but by three causies, whose inhabitants in like sort by an old
privilege may take wood, sedge turf, etc., to burn, likewise hay for their cattle and thatch
for their houses of custom, and each occupier in his appointed quantity throughout the isle;
albeit that covetousness hath now begun somewhat to abridge this large benevolence and commodity,
as well in the said isle as most other places of this land.

Finally, I might discourse in like order of the large commons, laid out heretofore by the lords
of the soil for the benefit of such poor as inhabit within the compass of their manors. But,
as the true intent of the givers is now in most places defrauded, insomuch that not the poor
tenants inhabitating upon the same, but their landlords, have all the commodity and gain. Wherefore
I mean not at this present to deal withal, but reserve the same wholly unto the due place,
whilst I go forward with the rest, setting down nevertheless by the way a general commendation
of the whole island, which I find in an ancient monument, much unto this effect--

  "Illa quidem longè celebris splendore, beata,
  Glebis, lacte, favis, supereminet insula cunctis,
  Quas regit ille Deus, spumanti cujus ab oro
  Proffuit oceanus," etc.

And a little after--

  "Testis Lundoniurntibus, Wintonia Baccho,
  Herefordia grege, Worcestria frugeredundans,
  Batha lacu, Salabyra feris, Cantuarin pisce,
  Eboraca sylvis, Excestria clara metallis,
  Norwicum Dacis hybernis, Cestria Gallis,
  Cicestrum Norwagenis, Dunelmia præpinguia,
  Testis Lincolnia gens infinita decore,
  Testis Ell formosa situ, Doncastria visu," etc.

CHAPTER XI

OF SUNDRY MINERALS AND METALS

[1577, Book III., Chapters 16 and 18; 1587, Book III., Chapters 10 and 11.]

With how great benefits this island of ours hath been endued from the beginning I hope there
is no godly man but will readily confess, and yield unto the Lord God his due honour for the
same. For we are blessed every way, and there is no temporal commodity necessary to be had
or craved by any nation at God's hand that he hath not in most abundant manner bestowed upon
us Englishmen, if we could see to use it, and be thankful for the same. But alas! (as said
in the chapter precedent) we love to enrich them that care not for us, but for our great commodities:
and one trifling toy not worth the carriage, coming (as the proverb saith) in three ships from
beyond the sea, is more worth with us than a right good jewel easy to be had at home. They
have also the cast to teach us to neglect our own things; for, if they see that we begin to
make any account of our commodities (if it be so that they have also the like in their own
countries) they will suddenly abase the same to so low a price that our gain not being worthy
our travel, and the same commodity with less cost ready to be had at home from other countries
(though but for a while), it causeth us to give over our endeavours and as it were by-and-by
to forget the matter whereabout we went before, to obtain them at their hands. And this is
the only cause wherefore our commodities are oft so little esteemed of. Some of them can say,
without any teacher, that they will buy the case of a fox of an Englishman for a groat, and
make him afterwards give twelve pence for the tail. Would to God we might once wax wiser, and
each one endeavour that the commonwealth of England may nourish again in her old rate, and
that our commodities may be fully wrought at home (as cloth if you will for an example) and
not carried out to be shorn and dressed abroad, while our clothworkers here do starve and beg
their bread, and for lack of daily practice utterly neglect to be skilful in this science!
But to my purpose.

We have in England great plenty of quicksilver, antimony, sulphur, black lead, and orpiment
red and yellow. We have also the finest alum (wherein the diligence of one of the greatest
favourers of the commonwealth of England of a subject[1] hath been of late egregriously abused,
and even almost with barbarous incivility) and of no less force against fire, if it were used
in our parietings, than that of Lipari, which only was in use sometime amongst the Asians and
Romans and whereof Sylla had such trial that when he meant to have burned a tower of wood erected
by Archelaus, the lieutenant of Mithridates, he could by no means set it on fire in a long
time, because it was washed over with alum, as were also the gates of the temple of Jerusalem
with like effect, and perceived when Titus commanded fire to be put unto the same. Besides
this, we have also the natural cinnabarum or vermillion, the sulphurous glebe called bitumen
in old time, for mortar, and yet burned in lamps where oil is scant and geson; the chrysocolla,
copperas, and mineral stone, whereof petriolum is made, and that which is most strange, the
mineral pearl, which as they are for greatness and colour most excellent of all other, so are
they digged out of the main land and in sundry places far distant from the shore. Certes the
western part of the land hath in times past greatly abounded with these and many other rare
and excellent commodities, but now they are washed away by the violence of the sea, which hath
devoured the greatest part of Cornwall and Devonshire on either side; and it doth appear yet
by good record that, whereas now there is a great distance between the Scilly Isles and the
point of the Land's End, there was of late years to speak of scarcely a brook or drain of one
fathom water between them, if so much, as by those evidences appeareth, and are yet to be seen
in the hands of the lord and chief owner of those isles. But to proceed.

      [1] The Lord Mountjoy.--H.

Of coal-mines we have such plenty in the north and western parts of our island as may suffice
for all the realm of England; and so must they do hereafter indeed, if wood be not better cherished
than it is at this present. And so say the truth, notwithstanding that very many of them are
carried into other countries of the main, yet their greatest trade beginneth now to grow from
the forge into the kitchen and hall, as may appear already in most cities and towns that lie
about the coast, where they have but little other fuel except it be turf and hassock. I marvel
not a little that there is no trade of these into Sussex and Southamptonshire, for want thereof
the smiths do work their iron with charcoal. I think that far carriage be the only cause, which
is but a slender excuse to enforce us to carry them into the main from hence.

Besides our coal-mines, we have pits in like sort of white plaster, and of fat and white and
other coloured marble, wherewith in many places the inhabitors do compest their soil, and which
doth benefit their land in ample manner for many years to come. We have saltpetre for our ordinance
and salt soda for our glass, and thereto in one place a kind of earth (in Southery; as I ween,
hard by Codington, and sometime in the tenure of one Croxton of London) which is so fine to
make moulds for goldsmiths and casters of metal, that a load of it was worth five shillings
thirty years ago; none such again they say in England. But whether there be or not, let us
not be unthankful to God, for these and other his benefits bestowed upon us, whereby he sheweth
himself a loving and merciful father unto us, which contrariwise return unto him in lieu of
humility and obedience nothing but wickedness, avarice, mere contempt of his will, pride, excess,
atheism, and no less than Jewish ingratitude.[2]

      [2] Here ends the chapter entitled "Minerals," and the one
      on "Metals" begins.--W.

All metals receive their beginning of quicksilver and sulphur, which are as mother and father
to them. And such is the purpose of nature in their generations that she tendeth always to
the procreation of gold; nevertheless she seldom reacheth unto that her end, because of the
unequal mixture and proportion of these two in the substance engendered, whereby impediment
and corruption is induced, which as it is more or less doth shew itself in the metal that is
produced....

And albeit that we have no such abundance of these (as some other countries do yield), yet
have my rich countrymen store enough of both in their purses, where in time past they were
wont to have least, because the garnishing of our churches, tabernacles, images, shrines, and
apparel of the priests consumed the greatest part, as experience hath confirmed.

Of late my countrymen have found out I wot not what voyage into the West Indies, from whence
they have brought some gold, whereby our country is enriched; but of all that ever adventured
into those parts, none have sped better than Sir Francis Drake, whose success (1582) hath far
passed even his own expectation. One John Frobisher in like manner, attempting to seek out
a shorter cut by the northerly regions into the peaceable sea and kingdom of Cathay, happened
(1577) upon certain islands by the way, wherein great plenty of much gold appeared, and so
much that some letted not to give out for certainty that Solomon had his gold from thence,
wherewith he builded the temple. This golden shew made him so desirous also of like success
that he left off his former voyage and returned home to bring news of such things as he had
seen. But, when after another voyage it was found to be but dross, he gave over both the enterprises,
and now keepeth home without any desire at all to seek into far countries. In truth, such was
the plenty of ore there seen and to be had that, if it had holden perfect, might have furnished
all the world with abundance of that metal; the journey also was short and performed in four
or five months, which was a notable encouragement. But to proceed.

Tin and lead, metals which Strabo noteth in his time to be carried unto Marsilis from hence,
as Diodorus also confirmeth, are very plentiful with us, the one in Cornwall, Devonshire, and
elsewhere in the north, the other in Derbyshire, Weredale, and sundry places of this island;
whereby my countrymen do reap no small commodity, but especially our pewterers, who in times
past employed the use of pewter only upon dishes, pots, and a few other trifles for service
here at home, whereas now they are grown unto such exquisite cunning that they can in manner
imitate by infusion any form or fashion of cup, dish, salt bowl, or goblet, which is made by
goldsmiths' craft, though they be never so curious, exquisite, and artificially forged. Such
furniture of household of this metal as we commonly call by the name of vessel is sold usually
by the garnish, which doth contain twelve platters, twelve dishes, twelve saucers, and those
are either of silver fashion or else with broad or narrow brims, and bought by the pound, which
is now valued at six or seven pence, or peradventure at eight pence. Of porringers, pots, and
other like, I speak not, albeit that in the making of all these things there is such exquisite
diligence used, I mean for the mixture of the metal and true making of this commodity (by reason
of sharp laws provided in that behalf), as the like is not to be found in any other trade.
I have been also informed that it consisteth of a composition which hath thirty pounds of kettle
brass to a thousand pounds of tin, whereunto they add three or four pounds of tin-glass; but
as too much of this doth make the stuff brickle, so the more the brass be, the better is the
pewter, and more profitable unto him that doth buy and purchase the same. But to proceed.

In some places beyond the sea a garnish of good flat English pewter of an ordinary making (I
say flat, because dishes and platters in my time begin to be made deep like basins, and are
indeed more convenient both for sauce, broth, and keeping the meat warm) is esteemed almost
so precious as the like number of vessels that are made of fine silver, and in manner no less
desired amongst the great estates, whose workmen are nothing so skilful in that trade as ours,
neither their metal so good, nor plenty so great, as we have here in England. The Romans made
excellent looking-glasses of our English tin, howbeit our workmen were not then so exquisite
in that feat as the Brundusians, wherefore the wrought metal was carried over unto them by
way of merchandise, and very highly were those glasses esteemed of till silver came generally
in place, which in the end brought the tin into such contempt that in manner every dishwasher
refused to look in other than silver glasses for the attiring of her head. Howbeit the making
of silver glasses had been in use before Britain was known unto the Romans, for I read that
one Praxiteles devised them in the young time of Pompey, which was before the coming of Caesar
into this island.

There were mines of lead sometimes also in Wales, which endured so long till the people had
consumed all their wood by melting of the same (as they did also at Comeriswith, six miles
from Stradfleur), and I suppose that in Pliny's time the abundance of lead (whereof he speaketh)
was to be found in those parts, in the seventeenth of his thirty-fourth book; also he affirmeth
that it lay in the very sward of the earth, and daily gotten in such plenty that the Romans
made a restraint of the carriage thereof to Rome, limiting how much should yearly be wrought
and transported over the sea.[3]

      [3] Here follow two stories about crows and miners.--W.

Iron is found in many places, as in Sussex, Kent, Weredale, Mendip, Walshall, as also in Shropshire,
but chiefly in the woods betwixt Belvos and Willock (or Wicberry) near Manchester, and elsewhere
in Wales. Of which mines divers do bring forth so fine and good stuff as any that cometh from
beyond the sea, beside the infinite gains to the owners, if we would so accept it, or bestow
a little more cost in the refining of it. It is also of such toughness, that it yieldeth to
the making of claricord wire in some places of the realm. Nevertheless, it was better cheap
with us when strangers only brought it hither; for it is our quality when we get any commodity
to use it with extremity towards our own nation, after we have once found the means to shut
out foreigners from the bringing in of the like. It breedeth in like manner great expense and
waste of wood, as doth the making of our pots and table vessels of glass, wherein is much loss,
sith it is so quickly broken; and yet (as I think) easy to be made tougher, if our alchemists
could once find the true birth or production of the red man, whose mixture would induce a metallic
toughness unto it, whereby it should abide the hammer.

Copper is lately not found, but rather restored again to light. For I have read of copper to
have been heretofore gotten in our island; howbeit as strangers have most commonly the governance
of our mines, so they hitherto make small gains of this in hand in the north parts; for (as
I am informed) the profit doth very hardly countervail the charges, whereat wise men do not
a little marvel, considering the abundance which that mine doth seem to offer, and, as it were,
at hand. Leland, our countryman, noteth sundry great likelihoods of natural copper mines to
be eastwards, as between Dudman and Trewardth, in the sea cliffs, beside other places, whereof
divers are noted here and there in sundry places of this book already, and therefore it shall
be but in vain to repeat them here again. As for that which is gotten out of the marchasite,
I speak not of it, sith it is not incident to my purpose. In Dorsetshire also a copper mine
lately found is brought to good perfection.

As for our steel, it is not so good for edge-tools as that of Cologne, and yet the one is often
sold for the other, and like talc used in both, that is to say, thirty gads to the sheaf, and
twelve sheaves to the burden.

Our alchemy is artificial, and thereof our spoons and some salts are commonly made and preferred
before our pewter with some,[4] albeit in truth it be much subject to corruption, putrefaction,
more heavy and foul to handle than our pewter; yet some ignorant persons affirm it to be a
metal more natural, and the very same which Encelius calleth plumbum cincreum, the Germans
wisemute, mithan, and counterfeie, adding that where it groweth silver cannot be far off. Nevertheless
it is known to be a mixture of brass, lead, and tin (of which this latter occupieth the one-half),
but after another proportion than is used in pewter. But alas, I am persuaded that neither
the old Arabians nor new alchemists of our time did ever hear of it, albeit that the name thereof
do seem to come out of their forge. For the common sort indeed do call it alchemy, an unwholesome
metal (God wot) and worthy to be banished and driven out of the land. And thus I conclude with
this discourse, as having no more to say of the metals of my country, except I should talk
of brass, bell metal, and such as are brought over for merchandise from other countries; and
yet I cannot but say that there is some brass found also in England, but so small is the quantity
that it is not greatly to be esteemed or accounted for.

      [4] Some tell me that it is a mixture of brass, lead, and
      tin.--H.

CHAPTER XII

OF CATTLE KEPT FOR PROFIT

[1577, Book III., Chapter 8; 1587, Book III., Chapter 1.]

There is no kind of tame cattle usually to be seen in these parts of the world whereof we have
not some, and that great store, in England, as horses, oxen, sheep, goats, swine, and far surmounting
the like in other countries, as may be proved with ease. For where are oxen commonly made more
large of bone, horses more decent and pleasant in pace, kine more commodious for the pail,
sheep more profitable for wool, swine more wholesome of flesh, and goats more gainful to their
keepers than here with us in England? But, to speak of them peculiarly, I suppose that our
kine are so abundant in yield of milk, whereof we make our butter and cheese, as the like any
where else, and so apt for the plough in divers places as either our horses or oxen. And, albeit
they now and then twin, yet herein they seem to come short of that commodity which is looked
for in other countries, to wit, in that they bring forth most commonly but one calf at once.
The gains also gotten by a cow (all charges borne) hath been valued at twenty shillings yearly;
but now, as land is enhanced, this proportion of gain is much abated, and likely to decay more
and more, if ground arise to be yet dearer--which God forbid, if it be His will and pleasure.
I heard of late of a cow in Warwickshire, belonging to Thomas Breuer of Studley, which in six
years had sixteen calves, that is four at once in three calvings and twice twins, which unto
many may seem a thing incredible. In like manner our oxen are such as the like are not to be
found in any country of Europe, both for greatness of body and sweetness of flesh or else would
not the Roman writers have preferred them before those of Liguria. In most places our graziers
are now grown to be so cunning that if they do but see an ox or bullock, and come to the feeling
of him, they will give a guess at his weight, and how many score or stone of flesh and tallow
he beareth, how the butcher may live by the sale, and what he may have for the skin and tallow,
which is a point of skill not commonly practised heretofore. Some such graziers also are reported
to ride with velvet coats and chains of gold about them and in their absence their wives will
not let to supply those turns with no less skill than their husbands: which is a hard work
for the poor butcher, sith he through this means can seldom be rich or wealthy by his trade.
In like sort the flesh of our oxen and kine is sold both by hand and by weight as the buyer
will; but in young ware rather by weight especially for the steer and heifer, sith the finer
beef is the lightest, whereas the flesh of bulls and old kine, etc., is of sadder substance,
and therefore much heavier as it lieth in the scale. Their horns also are known to be more
fair and large in England than in any other places, except those which are to be seen among
the Paeones, which quality, albeit that it be given to our breed generally by nature, yet it
is now and then helped also by art. For, when they be very young, many graziers will oftentimes
anoint their budding horns or tender tips with honey, which mollifieth the natural hardness
of that substance, and thereby maketh them to grow unto a notable greatness. Certes it is not
strange in England to see oxen whose horns have the length of a yard or three feet between
the tips, and they themselves thereto so tall as the height of a man of mean and indifferent
stature is scarce equal unto them. Nevertheless it is much to be lamented that our general
breed of cattle is not better looked unto; for the greatest occupiers wean least store, because
they can buy them (as they say) far better cheap than to raise and bring them up. In my time
a cow hath risen from four nobles to four marks by this means, which notwithstanding were no
great price if they did yearly bring forth more than one calf a piece, as I hear they do in
other countries.

Our horses, moreover, are high, and, although not commonly of such huge greatness as in other
places of the main, yet, if you respect the easiness of their pace, it is hard to say where
their like are to be had. Our land doth yield no asses, and therefore we want the generation
also of mules and somers, and therefore the most part of our carriages is made by these, which,
remaining stoned, are either reserved for the cart or appointed to bear such burdens as are
convenient for them. Our cart or plough horses (for we use them indifferently) are commonly
so strong that five or six of them (at the most) will draw three thousand weight of the greatest
tale with ease for a long journey, although it be not a load of common usage, which consisteth
only of two thousand, or fifty foot of timber, forty bushels of white salt, or six-and-thirty
of bay, of five quarters of wheat, experience daily teacheth, and I have elsewhere remembered.
Such as are kept also for burden will carry four hundredweight commonly without any hurt or
hindrance. This furthermore is to be noted, that our princes and the nobility have their carriage
commonly made by carts, whereby it cometh to pass that when the queen's majesty doth remove
from any one place to another, there are usually 400 carewares, which amount to the sum of
2400 horses, appointed out of the countries adjoining, whereby her carriage is conveyed safely
unto the appointed place. Hereby also the ancient use of somers and sumpter horses is in manner
utterly relinquished, which causeth the trains of our princes in their progresses to shew far
less than those of the kings of other nations.

Such as serve for the saddle are commonly gelded, and now grew to be very dear among us, especially
if they be well coloured, justly limbed, and have thereto an easy ambling pace. For our countrymen,
seeking their ease in every corner where it is to be had, delight very much in those qualities,
but chiefly in their excellent paces, which, besides that it is in manner peculiar unto horses
of our soil, and not hurtful to the rider or owner sitting on their backs, it is moreover very
pleasant and delectable in his ears, in that the noise of their well-proportioned pace doth
yield comfortable sound as he travelleth by the way. Yet is there no greater deceit used anywhere
than among our horsekeepers, horsecoursers, and hostlers; for such is the subtle knavery of
a great sort of them (without exception of any of them be it spoken which deal for private
gain) that an honest-meaning man shall have very good luck among them if he be not deceived
by some false trick or other.

There are certain notable markets wherein great plenty of horses and colts is bought and sold,
and whereunto such as have need resort yearly to buy and make their necessary provision of
them, as Ripon, Newport Pond, Wolfpit, Harboro', and divers others. But, as most drovers are
very diligent to bring great store of these unto those places, so many of them are too too
lewd in abusing such as buy them. For they have a custom, to make them look fair to the eye,
when they come within two days' journey of the market to drive them till they sweat, and for
the space of eight or twelve hours, which, being done, they turn them all over the backs into
some water, where they stand for a season, and then go forward with them to the place appointed,
where they make sale of their infected ware, and such as by this means do fall into many diseases
and maladies. Of such outlandish horses as are daily brought over unto us I speak not, as the
jennet of Spain, the courser of Naples, the hobby of Ireland, the Flemish roile and the Scottish
nag, because that further speech of them cometh not within the compass of this treatise, and
for whose breed and maintenance (especially of the greatest sort) King Henry the Eighth erected
a noble studdery, and for a time had very good success with them, till the officers, waxing
weary, procured a mixed brood of bastard races, whereby his good purpose came to little effect.
Sir Nicholas Arnold of late hath bred the best horses in England, and written of the manner
of their production: would to God his compass of ground were like to that of Pella in Syria,
wherein the king of that nation had usually a studdery of 30,000 mares and 300 stallions, as
Strabo doth remember, lib. 16. But to leave this, let us see what may be said of sheep.

Our sheep are very excellent, sith for sweetness of flesh they pass all other. And so much
are our wools to be preferred before those of Milesia and other places that if Jason had known
the value of them that are bred and to be had in Britain he would never have gone to Colchis
to look for any there. For, as Dionysius Alexandrinus saith in his De situ Orbis, it may by
spinning be made comparable to the spider's web. What fools then are our countrymen, in that
they seek to bereave themselves of this commodity by practising daily how to transfer the same
to other nations, in carrying over their rams and ewes to breed and increase among them! The
first example hereof was given under Edward the Fourth, who, not understanding the bottom of
the suit of sundry traítorous merchants that sought a present gain with the perpetual hindrance
of their country licensed them to carry over certain numbers of them into Spain, who, having
licence but for a few, shipped very many: a thing practised in other commodities also, whereby
the prince and his land are not seldom times defrauded. But such is our nature, and so blind
are we indeed, that we see no inconvenience before we feel it; and for a present gain we regard
not what damage may ensue to our posterity. Hereto some other man would add also the desire
that we have to benefit other countries and to impeach our own. And it is, so sure as God liveth,
that every trifle which cometh from beyond the sea, though it be not worth threepence, is more
esteemed than a continual commodity at home with us, which far exceedeth that value. In time
past the use of this commodity consisteth (for the most part) in cloth and woolsteds; but now,
by means of strangers succoured here from domestic persecution, the same hath been employed
unto sundry other uses, as mockados, bays, vellures, grograines, etc., whereby the makers have
reaped no small commodity. It is furthermore to be noted, for the low countries of Belgie know
it, and daily experience (notwithstanding the sharpness of our laws to the contrary) doth yet
confirm it, that, although our rams and wethers do go thither from us never so well headed
according to their kind, yet after they have remained there a while they cast there their heads,
and from thenceforth they remain polled without any horns at all. Certes this kind of cattle
is more cherished in England than standeth well with the commodity of the commons or prosperity
of divers towns, whereof some are wholly converted to their feeding; yet such a profitable
sweetness is their fleece, such necessity in their flesh, and so great a benefit in the manuring
of barren soil with their dung and piss, that their superfluous members are the better born
withal. And there is never a husbandman (for now I speak not of our great sheepmasters, of
whom some one man hath 20,000) but hath more or less of this cattle feeding on his fallows
and short grounds, which yield the finer fleece.

Nevertheless the sheep of our country are often troubled with the rot (as are our swine with
the measles, though never so generally), and many men are now and then great losers by the
same; but, after the calamity is over, if they can recover and keep their new stock sound for
seven years together, the former loss will easily be recompensed with double commodity. Cardan
writeth that our waters are hurtful to our sheep; howbeit this is but his conjecture, for we
know that our sheep are infected by going to the water, and take the same as a sure and certain
token that a rot hath gotten hold of them, their livers and lights being already distempered
through excessive heat, which enforceth them the rather to seek unto the water. Certes there
is no parcel of the main wherein a man shall generally find more fine and wholesome water than
in England; and therefore it is impossible that our sheep should decay by tasting of the same.
Wherefore the hindrance by rot is rather to be ascribed to the unseasonableness and moisture
of the weather in summer, also their licking in of mildews, gossamire, rowtie fogs, and rank
grass, full of superfluous juice, but especially (I say) to over moist weather, whereby the
continual rain piercing into their hollow fells soaketh forthwith into their flesh, which bringeth
them to their baines. Being also infected, their first shew of sickness is their desire to
drink, so that our waters are not unto them causa aegritudinis, but signum morbi, whatsoever
Cardan do maintain to the contrary. There are (and peradventure no small babes) which are grown
to be such good husbands that they can make account of every ten kine to be clearly worth twenty
pounds in common and indifferent years, if the milk of five sheep be daily added to the same.
But, as I wot not how true this surmise is, because it is no part of my trade, so I am sure
hereof that some housewives can and do add daily a less portion of ewe's milk unto the cheese
of so many kine, whereby their cheese doth the longer abide moist and eateth more brickle and
mellow than otherwise it would.

Goats we have plenty, and of sundry colours, in the west parts of England, especially in and
towards Wales and amongst the rocky hills, by whom the owners do reap so small advantage: some
also are cherished elsewhere in divers steeds, for the benefit of such as are diseased with
sundry maladies, unto whom (as I hear) their milk, cheese, and bodies of their young kids are
judged very profitable, and therefore inquired for of many far and near. Certes I find among
the writers that the milk of a goat is next in estimation to that of the woman, for that it
helpeth the stomach, removeth oppilations and stoppings of the liver, and looseth the belly.
Some place also next unto it the milk of the ewe, and thirdly that of the cow. But hereof I
can shew no reason; only this I know, that ewe's milk is fulsome, sweet, and such in taste
as (except such as are used unto it) no man will gladly yield to live and feed withal.

As for swine, there is no place that hath greater store, nor more wholesome in eating, than
are these here in England, which nevertheless do never any good till they come to the table.
Of these some we eat green for pork, and other dried up into bacon to have it in more continuance.
Lard we make some, though very little, because it is chargeable: neither have we such use thereof
as is to be seen in France and other countries, sith we do either bake our meat with sweet
suet of beef or mutton and baste all our meat with sweet or salt butter or suffer the fattest
to baste itself by leisure. In champaign countries they are kept by herds, and a hogherd appointed
to attend and wait upon them, who commonly gathereth them together by his noise and cry, and
leadeth them forth to feed abroad in the fields. In some places also women do scour and wet
their clothes with their dung, as other do with hemlocks and nettles; but such is the savour
of the clothes touched withal that I cannot abide to wear them on my body, more than such as
are scoured with the refuse soap, than the which (in mine opinion) there is none more unkindly
savour.

Of our tame boars we make brawn, which is a kind of meat not usually known to strangers (as
I take it), otherwise would not the swart Rutters and French cooks, at the loss of Calais (where
they found great store of this provision almost in every house), have attempted with ridiculous
success to roast, bake, broil, and fry the same for their masters, till they were better informed.
I have heard moreover how a nobleman of England not long since did send over a hogshead of
brawn ready soused to a Catholic gentleman of France, who, supposing it to be fish, reserved
it till Lent, at which time he did eat thereof with great frugality. Thereto he so well liked
the provision itself that he wrote over very earnestly, and with offer of great recompense,
for more of the same fish against the year ensuing; whereas if he had known it to have been
flesh he would not have touched it (I dare say) for a thousand crowns without the pope's dispensation.
A friend of mine also dwelling some time in Spain, having certain Jews at his table, did set
brawn before them, whereof they did eat very earnestly, supposing it to be a kind of fish not
common in those parts; but when the goodman of the house brought in the head in pastime among
them, to shew what they had eaten, they rose from the table, hied them home in haste, each
of them procuring himself to vomit, some by oil and some by other means, till (as they supposed)
they had cleansed their stomachs of that prohibited food. With us it is accounted a great piece
of service at the table from November until February be ended, but chiefly in the Christmas
time. With the same also we begin our dinners each day after other; and, because it is somewhat
hard of digestion, a draught of malvesey, bastard, or muscadel, is usually drank after it,
where either of them are conveniently to be had; otherwise the meaner sort content themselves
with their own drink, which at that season is generally very strong, and stronger indeed than
it is all the year beside. It is made commonly of the fore part of a tame boar, set up for
the purpose by the space of a whole year or two, especially in gentlemen's houses (for the
husbandmen and farmers never frank them for their own use above three or four months, or half
a year at the most), in which time he is dieted with oats and peason, and lodged on the bare
planks of an uneasy coat, till his fat be hardened sufficiently for their purpose: afterward
he is killed, scalded, and cut out, and then of his former parts is our brawn made. The rest
is nothing so fat, and therefore it beareth the name of sowse only, and is commonly reserved
for the serving-man and hind, except it please the owner to have any part thereof baked, which
are then handled of custom after this manner: the hinder parts being cut off, they are first
drawn with lard, and then sodden; being sodden, they are soused in claret wine and vinegar
a certain space, and afterward baked in pasties, and eaten of many instead of the wild boar,
and truly it is very good meat: the pestles may be hanged up a while to dry before they be
drawn with lard, if you will, and thereby prove the better. But hereof enough, and therefore
to come again unto our brawn. The neck pieces, being cut off round, are called collars of brawn,
the shoulders are named shilds, only the ribs retain the former denomination, so that these
aforesaid pieces deserve the name of brawn: the bowels of the beast are commonly cast away
because of their rankness, and so were likewise his stones, till a foolish fantasy got hold
of late amongst some delicate dames, who have now found the means to dress them also with great
cost for a dainty dish, and bring them to the board as a service among other of like sort,
though not without note of their desire to the provocation of fleshly lust which by this their
fond curiosity is not a little revealed. When the boar is thus cut out each piece is wrapped
up, either with bulrushes, ozier, peels, tape inkle,[1] or such like, and then sodden in a
lead or caldron together, till they be so tender that a man may thrust a bruised rush or straw
clean through the fat: which being done, they take it up and lay it abroad to cool. Afterward,
putting it into close vessels, they pour either good small ale or beer mingled with verjuice
and salt thereto till it be covered, and so let it lie (now and then altering and changing
the sousing drink lest it should wax sour) till occasion serve to spend it out of the way.
Some use to make brawn of great barrow hogs, and seethe them, and souse the whole as they do
that of the boar; and in my judgment it is the better of both, and more easy of digestion.
But of brawn thus much, and so much may seem sufficient.

      [1] Tape.

CHAPTER XIII

OF WILD AND TAME FOWLS

[1577, Book III., Chapters 9 and 11; 1587, Book III., Chapters 2 and 5.]

Order requireth that I speak somewhat of the fowls also of England, which I may easily divide
into the wild and tame; but, alas! such is my small skill in fowls that, to say the truth,
I can neither recite their numbers nor well distinguish one kind of them from another. Yet
this I have by general knowledge, that there is no nation under the sun which hath already
in the time of the year more plenty of wild fowl than we, for so many kinds as our island doth
bring forth, and much more would have if those of the higher soil might be spared but one year
or two from the greedy engines of covetous fowlers which set only for the pot and purse. Certes
this enormity bred great troubles in King John's days, insomuch that, going in progress about
the tenth of his reign, he found little or no game wherewith to solace himself or exercise
his falcons. Wherefore, being at Bristow in the Christmas ensuing, he restrained all manner
of hawking or taking of wild fowl throughout England for a season, whereby the land within
few years was thoroughly replenished again. But what stand I upon this impertinent discourse?
Of such therefore as are bred in our land, we have the crane, the bitter,[1] the wild and tame
swan, the bustard, the heron, curlew, snite, wildgoose, wind or doterell, brant, lark, plover
(of both sorts), lapwing, teal, widgeon, mallard, sheldrake, shoveller, peewitt, seamew, barnacle,
quail (who, only with man, are subject to the falling sickness), the knot, the oliet or olive,
the dunbird, woodcock, partridge, and pheasant, besides divers others, whose names to me are
utterly unknown, and much more the taste of their flesh, wherewith I was never acquainted.
But as these serve not at all seasons, so in their several turns there is no plenty of them
wanting whereby the tables of the nobility and gentry should seem at any time furnished. But
of all these the production of none is more marvellous, in my mind, than that of the barnacle,
whose place of generation we have sought ofttimes as far as the Orchades, whereas peradventure
we might have found the same nearer home, and not only upon the coasts of Ireland, but even
in our own rivers. If I should say how either these or some such other fowl not much unlike
unto them have bred of late times (for their place of generation is not perpetual, but as opportunity
serveth and the circumstances do minister occasion) in the Thames mouth, I do not think that
many will believe me; yet such a thing hath there been seen where a kind of fowl had his beginning
upon a short tender shrub standing near unto the shore, from whence, when their time came,
they fell down, either into the salt water and lived, or upon the dry land and perished, as
Pena the French herbarian hath also noted in the very end of his herbal. What I, for mine own
part, have seen here by experience, I have already so touched upon in the chapter of islands,
that it should be but time spent in vain to repeat it here again. Look therefore in the description
of Man (or Manaw) for more of these barnacles, as also in the eleventh chapter of the description
of Scotland, and I do not doubt but you shall in some respect be satisfied in the generation
of these fowls. As for egrets, pawpers, and such like, they are daily brought unto us from
beyond the sea, as if all the fowl of our country could not suffice to satisfy our delicate
appetites.

      [1] The proper English name of the bird which vulgar acceptance
      forces us to now call bittern.--W.

Our tame fowl are such (for the most part) as are common both to us and to other countries,
as cocks, hens, geese, ducks, peacocks of Ind, pigeons, now a hurtful fowl by reason of their
multitudes, and number of houses daily erected for their increase (which the boors of the country
call in scorn almshouses, and dens of thieves, and such like), whereof there is great plenty
in every farmer's yard. They are kept there also to be sold either for ready money in the open
markets, or else to be spent at home in good company amongst their neighbours without reprehension
or fines. Neither are we so miserable in England (a thing only granted unto us by the especial
grace of God and liberty of our princes) as to dine or sup with a quarter of a hen, or to make
as great a repast with a cock's comb as they do in some other countries; but, if occasion serve,
the whole carcases of many capons, hens, pigeons, and such like do oft go to wrack, beside
beef, mutton, veal, and lamb, all of which at every feast are taken for necessary dishes amongst
the communalty of England.

The gelding of cocks, whereby capons are made, Is an ancient practice brought in old time by
the Romans when they dwelt here in this land; but the gelding of turkeys or Indian peacocks
is a newer device, and certainly not used amiss, sith the rankness of that bird is very much
abated thereby and the strong taste of the flesh is sundry wise amended. If I should say that
ganders grow also to be gelded, I suppose that some will laugh me to scorn, neither have I
tasted at any time of such a fowl so served, yet have I heard it more than once to be used
in the country, where their geese are driven to the field like herds of cattle by a gooseherd,
a boy also no less to be marvelled at than the other. For, as it is rare to hear of a gelded
gander, so is it strange to me to see or hear of geese to be led to the field like sheep; yet
so it is, and their gooseherd carrieth a rattle of paper or parchment with him when he goeth
about in the morning to gather his goslings together, the noise whereof cometh no sooner to
their ears than they fall to gaggling, and hasten to go with him. If it happen that the gates
be not yet open, or that none of the house be stirring, it is ridiculous to see how they will
peep under the doors, and never leave creaking and gaggling till they be let out unto him to
overtake their fellows. With us, where I dwell, they are not kept in this sort, nor in many
other places, neither are they kept so much for their bodies as their feathers. Some hold furthermore
an opinion that in over rank soils their dung doth so qualify the batableness of the soil that
their cattle is thereby kept from the garget, and sundry other diseases, although some of them
come to their ends now and then by licking up of their feathers. I might here make mention
of other fowls produced by the industry of man, as between the pheasant cock and dunghill hen,
or between the pheasant and the ringdove, the peacock and the turkey hen, the partridge and
the pigeon; but, sith I have no more knowledge of these than what I have gotten by mine ear,
I will not meddle with them. Yet Cardan, speaking of the second sort, doth affirm it to be
a fowl of excellent beauty. I would likewise intreat of other fowls which we repute unclean,
as ravens, crows, pies, choughs, rooks, kites, jays, ringtails, starlings, woodspikes, woodnaws,
etc.; but, sith they abound in all countries, though peradventure most of all in England (by
reason of our negligence), I shall not need to spend any time in the rehearsal of them. Neither
are our crows and choughs cherished of purpose to catch up the worms that breed in our soils
(as Polydor supposeth), sith there are no uplandish towns but have (or should have) nets of
their own in store to catch them withal. Sundry acts of Parliament are likewise made for their
utter destruction, as also the spoil of other ravenous fowls hurtful to poultry, conies, lambs,
and kids, whose valuation of reward to him that killeth them is after the head: a device brought
from the Goths, who had the like ordinance for the destruction of their white crows, and tale
made by the beck, which killed both lambs and pigs. The like order is taken with us for our
vermin as with them also for the rootage out of their wild beasts, saving that they spared
their greatest bears, especially the white, whose skins are by custom and privilege reserved
to cover those planchers whereupon their priests do stand at mass, lest he should take some
unkind cold in such a long piece of work: and happy is the man that may provide them for him,
for he shall have pardon enough for that so religious an act, to last if he will till doomsday
do approach, and many thousands after. Nothing therefore can be more unlikely to be true than
that these noisome creatures are nourished amongst us to devour our worms, which do not abound
much more in England than elsewhere in other countries of the main. It may be that some look
for a discourse also of our other fowls in this place at my hand, as nightingales, thrushes,
blackbirds, mavises, ruddocks, redstarts or dunocks, larks, tivits, kingfishers, buntings,
turtles (white or grey), linnets, bullfinches, goldfinches, washtails, cherrycrackers, yellowhammers,
fieldfares, etc.; but I should then spend more time upon them than is convenient. Neither will
I speak of our costly and curious aviaries daily made for the better hearing of their melody,
and observation of their natures; but I cease also to go any further in these things, having
(as I think) said enough already of these that I have named.[2]...

      [2] Here ends the first chapter of "fowls," that which follows
      being restricted to "hawks and ravenous fowls."--W.

I cannot make as yet any just report how many sorts of hawks are bred within this realm. Howbeit
which of those that are usually had among us are disclosed within this land, I think it more
easy and less difficult to set down. First of all, therefore, that we have the eagle common
experience doth evidently confirm, and divers of our rocks whereon they breed, if speech did
serve, could well declare the same. But the most excellent eyrie of all is not much from Chester,
at a castle called Dinas Bren, sometime builded by Brennus, as our writers do remember. Certes
this castle is no great thing, but yet a pile sometime very strong and inaccessible for enemies,
though now all ruinous as many others are. It standeth upon a hard rock, in the side whereof
an eagle breedeth every year. This also is notable in the overthrow of her nest (a thing oft
attempted), that he which goeth thither must be sure of two large baskets, and so provide to
be let down thereto, that he may sit in the one and be covered with the other: for otherwise
the eagle would kill him and tear the flesh from his bones with her sharp talons, though his
apparel were never so good. The common people call this fowl an erne; but, as I am ignorant
whether the word eagle and erne do shew any difference of sex, I mean between the male and
the female, so we have great store of them. And, near to the places where they breed, the commons
complain of great harm to be done by them in their fields; for they are able to bear a young
lamb or kid unto their nests, therewith to feed their young and come again for more. I was
once of the opinion that there was a diversity of kind between the eagle and the erne, till
I perceived that our nation used the word erne in most places for the eagle. We have also the
lanner and the lanneret, the tersel and the goshawk, the musket and the sparhawk, the jack
and the hobby, and finally some (though very few) marleons. And these are all the hawks that
I do hear as yet to be bred within this island. Howbeit, as these are not wanting with us,
so are they not very plentiful: wherefore such as delight in hawking do make their chief purveyance
and provision for the same out of Danske, Germany, and the eastern countries, from whence we
have them in great abundance and at excellent prices, whereas at home and where they be bred
they are sold for almost right nought, and usually brought to the markets as chickens, pullets,
and pigeons are with us, and there bought up to be eaten (as we do the aforesaid fowl) almost
of every man. It is said that the sparhawk pryeth not upon the fowl in the morning, that she
taketh over even, but as loath to have double benefit by one seelie fowl doth let it go to
make some shift for itself. But hereof as I stand in some doubt. So this I find among the writers
worthy the noting: that the sparhawk is enemy to young children, as is also the ape, but of
the peacock she is marvellously afraid, and so appalled that all courage and stomach for a
time is taken from her upon the sight thereof. But to proceed with the rest. Of other ravenous
birds we have also very great plenty, as the buzzard, the kite, the ringtail, dunkite, and
such as often annoy our country dames by spoiling of their young breeds of chickens, ducks,
and goslings, whereunto our very ravens and crows have learned also the way: and so much are
ravens given to this kind of spoil that some idle and curious heads of set purpose have manned,
reclaimed, and used them instead of hawks, when other could not be had. Some do imagine that
the raven should be the vulture, and I was almost persuaded in times past to believe the same;
but, finding of late, a description of the vulture, which better agreeth with the form of a
second kind of eagle, I freely surcease to be longer of that opinion: for, as it hath, after
a sort, the shape, colour, and quantity of an eagle, so are the legs and feet more hairy and
rough, their sides under their wings better covered with thick down (wherewith also their gorge
or a part of their breast under their throats is armed, and not with feathers) than are the
like parts of the eagle, and unto which portraiture there is no member of the raven (who is
almost black of colour) that can have any resemblance: we have none of them in England to my
knowledge; if we have, they go generally under the name of eagle or erne. Neither have we the
pygargus or grip, wherefore I have no occasion to treat further. I have seen the carrion crows
so cunning also by their own industry of late that they have used to soar over great rivers
(as the Thames for example) and, suddenly coming down, have caught a small fish in their feet
and gone away withal without wetting of their wings. And even at this present the aforesaid
river is not without some of them, a thing (in my opinion) not a little to be wondered at.
We have also osprays, which breed with us in parks and woods, whereby the keepers of the same
do reap in breeding time no small commodity; for, so soon almost as the young are hatched,
they tie them to the butt ends or ground ends of sundry trees, where the old ones, finding
them, do never cease to bring fish unto them, which the keepers take and eat from them, and
commonly is such as is well fed or not of the worst sort. It hath not been my hap hitherto
to see any of these fowl, and partly through mine own negligence; but I hear that it hath one
foot like a hawk, to catch hold withal, and another resembling a goose, wherewith to swim;
but, whether it be so or not so, I refer the further search and trial thereof unto some other.
This nevertheless is certain, that both alive and dead, yea even her very oil, is a deadly
terror to such fish as come within the wind of it. There is no cause whereof I should describe
the cormorant amongst hawks, of which some be black and many pied, chiefly about the Isle of
Ely, where they are taken for the night raven, except I should call him a water hawk. But,
sith such dealing is not convenient, let us now see what may be said of our venomous worms,
and how many kinds we have of them within our realm and country.[3]

      [3] This on "venomous beasts" will be found included in the
      "savage beasts" of the following.

CHAPTER XIV

OF SAVAGE BEASTS AND VERMIN

[1577, Book III., Chapters 7 and 12; 1587, Book III., Chapters 4 and 6.]

It is none of the least blessings wherewith God hath endued this island that it is void of
noisome beasts, as lions, bears, tigers, pardes, wolves, and such like, by means whereof our
countrymen may travel in safety, and our herds and flocks remain for the most part abroad in
the field without any herdman or keeper.

This is chiefly spoken of the south and south-west parts of the island. For, whereas we that
dwell on this side of the Tweed may safely boast of our security in this behalf, yet cannot
the Scots do the like in every point wherein their kingdom, sith they have grievous wolves
and cruel foxes, beside some others of like disposition continually conversant among them,
to the general hindrance of their husbandmen, and no small damage unto the inhabitants of those
quarters. The happy and fortunate want of these beasts in England is universally ascribed to
the politic government of King Edgar.[1]...

      [1] Here follows an account of the extermination of wolves,
      and a reference to lions and wild bulls rampant in Scotland of
      old.--W.

Of foxes we have some, but no great store, and also badgers in our sandy and light grounds,
where woods, furze, broom, and plenty of shrubs are to shroud them in when they be from their
burrows, and thereunto warrens of conies at hand to feed upon at will. Otherwise in clay, which
we call the cledgy mould, we seldom hear of any, because the moisture and the toughness of
the soil is such as will not suffer them to draw and make their burrows deep. Certes, if I
may freely say what I think, I suppose that these two kinds (I mean foxes and badgers) are
rather preserved by gentlemen to hunt and have pastime withal at their own pleasures than otherwise
suffered to live as not able to be destroyed because of their great numbers. For such is the
scarcity of them here in England, in comparison of the plenty that is to be seen in other countries,
and so earnestly are the inhabitants bent to root them out, that, except it had been to bear
thus with the recreations of their superiors in this behalf, it could not otherwise have been
chosen but that they should have been utterly destroyed by many years agone.

I might here intreat largely of other vermin, as the polecat, the miniver, the weasel, stote,
fulmart, squirrel, fitchew, and such like, which Cardan includeth under the word Mustela: also
of the otter, and likewise of the beaver, whose hinder feet and tail only are supposed to be
fish. Certes the tail of this beast is like unto a thin whetstone, as the body unto a monstrous
rat: as the beast also itself is of such force in the teeth that it will gnaw a hole through
a thick plank, or shere through a double billet in a night; it loveth also the stillest rivers,
and it is given to them by nature to go by flocks unto the woods at hand, where they gather
sticks wherewith to build their nests, wherein their bodies lie dry above the water, although
they so provide most commonly that their tails may hang within the same. It is also reported
that their said tails are a delicate dish, and their stones of such medicinal force that (as
Vertomannus saith) four men smelling unto them each after other did bleed at the nose through
their attractive force, proceeding from a vehement savour wherewith they are endued. There
is greatest plenty of them in Persia, chiefly about Balascham, from whence they and their dried
cods are brought into all quarters of the world, though not without some forgery by such as
provide them. And of all these here remembered, as the first sorts are plentiful in every wood
and hedgerow, so these latter, especially the otter (for, to say the truth, we have not many
beavers, but only in the Teisie in Wales) is not wanting or to seek in many, but most, streams
and rivers of this isle; but it shall suffice in this sort to have named them, as I do finally
the martern, a beast of the chase, although for number I worthily doubt whether that of our
beavers or marterns may be thought to be the less.

Other pernicious beasts we have not, except you repute the great plenty of red and fallow deer
whose colours are oft garled white and black, all white or all black, and store of conies amongst
the hurtful sort. Which although that of themselves they are not offensive at all, yet their
great numbers are thought to be very prejudicial, and therefore justly reproved of many, as
are in like sort our huge flocks of sheep, whereon the greatest part of our soil is employed
almost in every place, and yet our mutton, wool, and felles never the better cheap. The young
males which our fallow deer do bring forth are commonly named according to their several ages:
for the first year it is a fawn, the second a pricket, the third a sorel, the fourth a soare,
the fifth a buck of the first head, not bearing the name of a buck till he be five years old:
and from henceforth his age is commonly known by his head or horns. Howbeit this notice of
his years is not so certain but that the best woodman may now and then be deceived in that
account: for in some grounds a buck of the first head will be as well headed as another in
a high rowtie soil will be in the fourth. It is also much to be marvelled at that, whereas
they do yearly mew and cast their horns, yet in fighting they never break off where they do
grife or mew. Furthermore, in examining the condition of our red deer, I find that the young
male is called in the first year a calf, in the second a broket, the third a spay, the fourth
a staggon or stag, the fifth a great stag, the sixth a hart, and so forth unto his death. And
with him in degree of venerie are accounted the hare, boar, and wolf. The fallow deer, as bucks
and does, are nourished in parks, and conies in warrens and burrows. As for hares, they run
at their own adventure, except some gentleman or other (for his pleasure) do make an enclosure
for them. Of these also the stag is accounted for the most noble game, the fallow deer is the
next, then the roe, whereof we have indifferent store, and last of all the hare, not the least
in estimation, because the hunting of that seely beast is mother to all the terms, blasts,
and artificial devices that hunters do use. All which (notwithstanding our custom) are pastimes
more meet for ladies and gentlewomen to exercise (whatsoever Franciscus Patritius saith to
the contrary in his Institution of a Prince) than for men of courage to follow, whose hunting
should practise their arms in tasting of their manhood, and dealing with such beasts as eftsoons
will turn again and offer them the hardest, rather than their horses' feet which many times
may carry them with dishonour from the field.[2]...

      [2] Here follows a discourse on ancient boar hunting, exalting
      it above the degenerate sports of the day. This ends the
      chapter on "savage beasts."--W.

If I should go about to make any long discourse of venomous beasts or worms bred in England,
I should attempt more than occasion itself would readily offer, sith we have very few worms,
but no beasts at all, that are thought by their natural qualities to be either venomous or
hurtful. First of all, therefore, we have the adder (in our old Saxon tongue called an atter),
which some men do not rashly take to be the viper. Certes, if it be so, then is not the viper
author of the death of her[3] parents, as some histories affirm, and thereto Encelius, a late
writer, in his De re Metallica, lib. 3, cap. 38, where he maketh mention of a she adder which
he saw in Sala, whose womb (as he saith) was eaten out after a like fashion, her young ones
lying by her in the sunshine, as if they had been earthworms. Nevertheless, as he nameth them
viperas, so he calleth the male echis. and the female echidna, concluding in the end that echis
is the same serpent which his countrymen to this day call ein atter, as I have also noted before
out of a Saxon dictionary. For my part I am persuaded that the slaughter of their parents is
either not true at all, or not always (although I doubt not but that nature hath right well
provided to inhibit their superfluous increase by some means or other), and so much the rather
am I led hereunto for that I gather by Nicander that of all venomous worms the viper only bringeth
out her young alive, and therefore is called in Latin vipera quasivivipara, but of her own
death he doth not (to my remembrance) say anything. It is testified also by other in other
words, and to the like sense, that "Echis id est vipera sola ex serpentibus non ova sed animalia
parit."[4] And it may well be, for I remember that I have read in Philostratus, De vita Appollonii,
how he saw a viper licking her young. I did see an adder once myself that lay (as I thought)
sleeping on a molehill, out of whose mouth came eleven young adders of twelve or thirteen inches
in length apiece, which played to and fro in the grass one with another, till some of them
espied me. So soon therefore as they saw my face they ran again into the mouth of their dam,
whom I killed, and then found each of them shrouded in a distinct cell or pannicle in her belly,
much like unto a soft white jelly, which maketh me to be of the opinion that our adder is the
viper indeed. The colour of their skin is for the most part like rusty iron or iron grey, but
such as be very old resemble a ruddy blue; and as once in the year (to wit, in April or about
the beginning of May) they cast their old skins (whereby as it is thought their age reneweth),
so their stinging bringeth death without present remedy be at hand, the wounded never ceasing
to swell, neither the venom to work till the skin of the one break, and the other ascend upward
to the heart, where it finisheth the natural effect, except the juice of dragons (in Latin
called dracunculus minor) be speedily ministered and drunk in strong ale, or else some other
medicine taken of like force that may countervail and overcome the venom of the same. The length
of them is most commonly two feet, and somewhat more, but seldom doth it extend into two feet
six inches, except it be in some rare and monstrous one, whereas our snakes are much longer,
and seen sometimes to surmount a yard, or three feet, although their poison be nothing so grievous
and deadly as the others. Our adders lie in winter under stones, as Aristotle also saith of
the viper (lib. 8, cap. 15), and in holes of the earth, rotten stubs of trees, and amongst
the dead leaves; but in the heat of the summer they come abroad, and lie either round in heaps
or at length upon some hillock, or elsewhere in the grass. They are found only in our woodland
countries and highest grounds, where sometimes (though seldom) a speckled stone called echites,
in Dutch ein atter stein, is gotten out of their dried carcases, which divers report to be
good against their poison.[5] As for our snakes, which in Latin are properly named angues,
they commonly are seen in moors, fens, loam, walls, and low bottoms.

      [3] Galenus, De Theriaca ad Pisonem; Pliny, lib. 10, cap.
      62.--H.

      [4] "The adder or viper alone among serpents brings forth not
      eggs but living creatures."

      [5] Sallust, cap. 40, Pliny, lib. 37, cap. 2.--H.

As we have great store of toads where adders commonly are found, so do frogs abound where snakes
do keep their residence. We have also the slow-worm, which is black and greyish of colour,
and somewhat shorter than an adder. I was at the killing once of one of them, and thereby perceived
that she was not so called of any want of nimble motion, but rather of the contrary. Nevertheless
we have a blind-worm, to be found under logs, in woods and timber that hath lain long in a
place, which some also do call (and upon better ground) by the name of slow-worms, and they
are known easily by their more or less variety of striped colours, drawn long-ways from their
heads, their whole bodies little exceeding a foot in length, and yet is their venom deadly.
This also is not to be omitted; and now and then in our fenny countries other kinds of serpents
are found of greater quantity than either our adder or our snake, but, as these are not ordinary
and oft to be seen, so I mean not to intreat of them among our common annoyances. Neither have
we the scorpion, a plague of God sent not long since into Italy, and whose poison (as Apollodorus
saith) is white, neither the tarantula or Neapolitan spider, whose poison bringeth death, except
music be at hand. Wherefore I suppose our country to be the more happy (I mean in part) for
that it is void of these two grievous annoyances wherewith other nations are plagued.

We have also efts both of the land and water, and likewise the noisome swifts, whereof to say
any more it would be but loss of time, sith they are all well known, and no region to my knowledge
found to be void of many of them. As for flies (sith it shall not be amiss a little to touch
them also), we have none that can do hurt or hindrance naturally unto any: for whether they
be cut-waisted or whole-bodied, they are void of poison and all venomous inclination. The cut
or girt waisted (for so I English the word insecta) are the hornets, wasps, bees, and such
like, whereof we have great store, and of which an opinion is conceived that the first do breed
of the corruption of dead horses, the second of pears and apples corrupted, and the last of
kine and oxen: which may be true, especially the first and latter in some parts of the beast,
and not their whole substances, as also in the second, sith we have never wasps but when our
fruit beginneth to wax ripe. Indeed Virgil and others speak of a generation of bees by killing
or smothering a bruised bullock or calf and laying his bowels or his flesh wrapped up in his
hide in a close house for a certain season; but how true it is, hitherto I have not tried.
Yet sure I am of this, that no one living creature corrupteth without the production of another,
as we may see by ourselves, whose flesh doth alter into lice, and also in sheep for excessive
numbers of flesh flies, if they be suffered to lie unburied or uneaten by the dogs and swine,
who often and happily present such needless generations.

As concerning bees, I think it good to remember that, whereas some ancient writers affirm it
to be a commodity wanting in our island, it is now found to be nothing so. In old times peradventure
we had none indeed; but in my days there is such plenty of them in manner everywhere that in
some uplandish towns there are one hundred or two hundred hives of them, although the said
hives are not so huge as those of the east country, but far less, and not able to contain above
one bushel of corn or five pecks at the most. Pliny (a man that of set purpose delighteth to
write of wonders), speaking of honey, noteth that in the north regions the hives in his time
were of such quantity that some one comb contained eight foot in length, and yet (as it should
seem) he speaketh not of the greatest. For in Podolia, which is now subject to the King of
Poland, their hives are so great, and combs so abundant, that huge boars, overturning and falling
into them, are drowned in the honey before they can recover and find the means to come out.

Our honey also is taken and reputed to be the best, because it is harder, better wrought, and
cleanlier vesselled up, than that which cometh from beyond the sea, where they stamp and strain
their combs, bees, and young blowings altogether into the stuff, as I have been informed. In
use also of medicine our physicians and apothecaries eschew the foreign, especially that of
Spain and Pontus, by reason of a venomous quality naturally planted in the same, as some write,
and choose the home-made: not only by reason of our soil (which hath no less plenty of wild
thyme growing therein than in Sicilia and about Athens, and maketh the best stuff) as also
for that it breedeth (being gotten in harvest time) less choler, and which is oftentimes (as
I have seen by experience) so white as sugar, and corned as if it were salt. Our hives are
made commonly of rye straw and wattled about with bramble quarters; but some make the same
of wicker, and cast them over with clay. We cherish none in trees, but set our hives somewhere
on the warmest side of the house, providing that they may stand dry and without danger both
of the mouse and the moth. This furthermore is to be noted, that whereas in vessels of oil
that which is nearest the top is counted the finest and of wine that in the middest, so of
honey the best which is heaviest and moistest is always next the bottom, and evermore casteth
and driveth his dregs upward toward the very top, contrary to the nature of other liquid substances,
whose grounds and leeze do generally settle downwards. And thus much as by the way of our bees
and English honey.

As for the whole-bodied, as the cantharides, and such venomous creatures of the same kind,
to be abundantly found in other countries, we hear not of them: yet have we beetles, horseflies,
turdbugs or dors (called in Latin scarabei), the locust or the grasshopper (which to me do
seem to be one thing, as I will anon declare), and such like, whereof let other intreat that
make an exercise in catching of flies, but a far greater sport in offering them to spiders,
as did Domitian sometime, and another prince yet living who delighted so much to see the jolly
combats betwixt a stout fly and an old spider that divers men have had great rewards given
them for their painful provision of flies made only for this purpose. Some parasites also,
in the time of the aforesaid emperor (when they were disposed to laugh at his folly, and yet
would seem in appearance to gratify his fantastical head with some shew of dutiful demeanour),
could devise to set their lord on work by letting a flesh fly privily into his chamber, which
he forthwith would eagerly have hunted (all other business set apart) and never ceased till
he had caught her into his fingers, wherewith arose the proverb, "Ne musca quidem" uttered
first by Vibius Priscus, who being asked whether anybody was with Domitian, answered "Ne musca
quidem" whereby he noted his folly. There are some cockscombs here and there in England, learning
it abroad as men transregionate, which make account also of this pastime, as of a notable matter,
telling what a sight is seen between them, if either of them be lusty and courageous in his
kind. One also hath made a book of the spider and the fly, wherein he dealeth so profoundly,
and beyond all measure of skill that neither he himself that made it nor any one that readeth
it can reach unto the meaning thereof. But if those jolly fellows, instead of the straw that
they must thrust into the fly's tail (a great injury no doubt to such a noble champion), would
bestow the cost to set a fool's cap upon their own heads, then might they with more security
and less reprehension behold these notable battles.

Now, as concerning the locust, I am led by divers of my country, who (as they say) were either
in Germany, Italy, or Pannonia, 1542, when those nations were greatly annoyed with that kind
of fly, and affirm very constantly that they saw none other creature than the grasshopper during
the time of that annoyance, which was said to come to them from the Meotides. In most of our
translations also of the Bible the word locusta is Englished a grasshopper, and thereunto (Leviticus
xi.) it is reputed among the clean food, otherwise John the Baptist would never have lived
with them in the wilderness. In Barbary, Numidia, and sundry other places of Africa, as they
have been,[6] so are they eaten to this day powdered in barrels, and therefore the people of
those parts are called Acedophagi: nevertheless they shorten the life of the eaters, by the
production at the last of an irksome and filthy disease. In India they are three foot long,
in Ethiopia much shorter, but in England seldom above an inch. As for the cricket, called in
Latin cicada, he hath some likelihood, but not very great, with the grasshopper, and therefore
he is not to be brought in as an umpire in this case. Finally, Matthiolus and so many as describe
the locust do set down none other form than that of our grasshopper, which maketh me so much
the more to rest upon my former imagination, which is that the locust and the grasshopper are one.

      [6] See Diodorus Siculus.--H.

CHAPTER XV

OF OUR ENGLISH DOGS AND THEIR QUALITIES

[1577, Book III., Chapter 13; 1587, Book III., Chapter 7.]

There is no country that may (as I take it) compare with ours in number, excellency, and diversity
of dogs.

The first sort therefore he divideth either into such as rouse the beast, and continue the
chase, or springeth the bird, and bewrayeth her flight by pursuit. And as these are commonly
called spaniels, so the other are named hounds, whereof he maketh eight sorts, of which the
foremost excelleth in perfect smelling, the second in quick espying, the third in swiftness
and quickness, the fourth in smelling and nimbleness, etc., and the last in subtlety and deceitfulness.
These (saith Strabo) are most apt for game, and called Sagaces by a general name, not only
because of their skill in hunting, but also for that they know their own and the names of their
fellows most exactly. For if the hunter see any one to follow skilfully, and with likelihood
of good success, he biddeth the rest to hark and follow such a dog, and they eftsoones obey
so soon as they hear his name. The first kind of these are often called harriers, whose game
is the fox, the hare, the wolf (if we had any), hart, buck, badger, otter, polecat, lopstart,
weasel, conie, etc.: the second height a terrier and it hunteth the badger and grey only: the
third a bloodhound, whose office is to follow the fierce, and now and then to pursue a thief
or beast by his dry foot: the fourth height a gazehound, who hunteth by the eye: the fifth
a greyhound, cherished for his strength and swiftness and stature, commended by Bratius in
his De Venatione, and not unremembered by Hercules Stroza in a like treatise, and above all
other those of Britain, where he saith: "Magna spectandi mole Britanni;" also by Nemesianus,
libro Cynegeticón, where he saith: "Divisa Britannia mittit Veloces nostrique orbis venatibus
aptos," of which sort also some be smooth, of sundry colours, and some shake-haired: the sixth
a liemer, that excelleth in smelling and swift-running: the seventh a tumbler: and the eighth
a thief whose offices (I mean of the latter two) incline only to deceit, wherein they are oft
so skilful that few men would think so mischievous a wit to remain in such silly creatures.
Having made this enumeration of dogs which are apt for the chase and hunting, he cometh next
to such as serve the falcons in their time, whereof he maketh also two sorts. One that findeth
his game on the land, another that putteth up such fowl as keepeth in the water: and of these
this is commonly most usual for the net or train, the other for the hawk, as he doth shew at
large. Of the first he saith that they have no peculiar names assigned to them severally, but
each of them is called after the bird which by natural appointment he is alloted to hunt or
serve, for which consideration some be named dogs for the pheasant, some for the falcon, and
some for the partridge. Howbeit the common name for all is spaniel (saith he), and thereupon
alluded as if these kinds of dogs had been brought hither out of Spain. In like sort we have
of water spaniels in their kind. The third sort of dogs of the gentle kind is the spaniel gentle,
or comforter, or (as the common term is) the fistinghound, and those are called Melitei, of
the Island Malta, from whence they were brought hither. These are little and pretty, proper
and fine, and sought out far and near to falsify the nice delicacy of dainty dames, and wanton
women's wills, instruments of folly to play and dally withal, in trifling away the treasure
of time, to withdraw their minds from more commendable exercises, and to content their corrupt
concupiscences with vain disport--a silly poor shift to shun their irksome idleness. The Sybaritical
puppies the smaller they be (and thereto if they have a hole in the fore parts of their heads)
the better they are accepted, the more pleasure also they provoke, as meet playfellows for
mincing mistresses to bear in their bosoms, to keep company withal in their chambers, to succour
with sleep in bed, and nourish with meat at board, to lie in their laps, and lick their lips
as they lie (like young Dianas) in their waggons and coaches. And good reason it should be
so, for coarseness with fineness hath no fellowship, but featness with neatness hath neighbourhood
enough. That plausible proverb therefore versified sometime upon a tyrant--namely, that he
loved his sow better than his son--may well be applied to some of this kind of people, who
delight more in their dogs, that are deprived of all possibility of reason, than they do in
children that are capable of wisdom and judgment. Yea, they oft feed them of the best where
the poor man's child at their doors can hardly come by the worst. But the former abuse peradventure
reigneth where there hath been long want of issue, else where barrenness is the best blossom
of beauty: or, finally, where poor men's children for want of their own issue are not ready
to be had. It is thought of some that it is very wholesome for a weak stomach to bear such
a dog in the bosom, as it is for him that hath the palsy to feel the daily smell and savour
of a fox. But how truly this is affirmed let the learned judge: only it shall suffice for Doctor
Caius to have said thus much of spaniels and dogs of the gentle kind.

Dogs of the homely kind are either shepherd's curs or mastiffs. The first are so common that
it needeth me not to speak of them. Their use also is so well known in keeping the herd together
(either when they grass or go before the shepherd) that it should be but in vain to spend any
time about them. Wherefore I will leave this cur unto his own kind, and go in hand with the
mastiff, tie dog, or band dog, so called because many of them are tied up in chains and strong
bonds in the daytime, for doing hurt abroad, which is a huge dog, stubborn, ugly, eager, burthenous
of body (and therefore of but little swiftness), terrible and fearful to behold, and oftentimes
more fierce and fell than any Archadian or Corsican cur. Our Englishmen, to the extent that
these dogs may be more cruel and fierce, assist nature with some art, use, and custom. For
although this kind of dog be capable of courage, violent, valiant, stout, and bold: yet will
they increase these their stomachs by teaching them to bait the bear, the bull, the lion, and
other such like cruel and bloody beasts (either brought over or kept up at home for the same
purpose), without any collar to defend their throats, and oftentimes there too they train them
up in fighting and wrestling with a man (having for the safeguard of his life either a pikestaff,
club, sword, privy coat), whereby they become the more fierce and cruel unto strangers. The
Caspians make so much account sometimes of such great dogs that every able man would nourish
sundry of them in his house of set purpose, to the end they should devour their carcases after
their deaths thinking the dog's bellies to be the most honourable sepulchres. The common people
also followed the same rate, and therefore there were tie dogs kept up by public ordinance,
to devour them after their deaths: by means whereof these beasts became the more eager, and
with great difficulty after a while restrained from falling upon the living. But whither am
I digressed? In returning therefore to our own, I say that of mastiffs, some bark only with
fierce and open mouth but will not bite; but the cruelest do either not bark at all or bite
before they bark, and therefore are more to be feared than any of the other. They take also
their name of the word "mase" and "thief" (or "master-thief" if you will), because they often
stound and put such persons to their shifts in towns and villages, and are the principal causes
of their apprehension and taking. The force which is in them surmounteth all belief, and the
fast hold which they take with their teeth exceedeth all credit: for three of them against
a bear, four against a lion, are sufficient to try mastries with them. King Henry the Seventh,
as the report goeth, commanded all such curs to be hanged, because they durst presume to fight
against the lion, who is their king and sovereign. The like he did with an excellent falcon,
as some say, because he feared not hand-to-hand match with an eagle, willing his falconers
in his own presence to pluck off his head after he was taken down, saying that it was not meet
for any subject to offer such wrong unto his lord and superior, wherein he had a further meaning.
But if King Henry the Seventh had lived in our time what would he have done to our English
mastiff, which alone and without any help at all pulled down first a huge bear, then a pard,
and last of all a lion, each after other before the French king in one day, when the Lord Buckhurst
was ambassador unto him, and whereof if I should write the circumstances, that is, how he took
his advantage being let loose unto them, and finally drave them into such exceeding fear, that
they were all glad to run away when he was taken from them, I should take much pains, and yet
reap but small credit: wherefore it shall suffice to have said thus much thereof. Some of our
mastiffs will rage only in the night, some are to be tied up both day and night. Such also
as are suffered to go loose about the house and yard are so gentle in the daytime that children
may ride on their backs and play with them at their pleasures. Divers of them likewise are
of such jealousy over their master and whosoever of his household, that if a stranger do embrace
or touch any of them, they will fall fiercely upon them, unto their extreme mischief if their
fury be not prevented. Such a one was the dog of Nichomedes, king sometime of Bithynia, who
seeing Consigne the queen to embrace and kiss her husband as they walked together in a garden,
did tear her all to pieces, maugre his resistance and the present aid of such as attended on
them. Some of them moreover will suffer a stranger to come in and walk about the house or yard
where he listeth, without giving over to follow him: but if he put forth his hand to touch
anything, then will they fly upon them and kill them if they may. I had one myself once, which
would not suffer any man to bring in his weapon further than my gate: neither those that were
of my house to be touched in his presence. Or if I had beaten any of my children, he would
gently have essayed to catch the rod in his teeth and take it out of my hand or else pluck
down their clothes to save them from the stripes: which in my opinion is not unworthy to be noted.

The last sort of dogs consisteth of the currish kind meet for many toys, of which the whappet
or prick-eared cur is one. Some men call them warners, because they are good for nothing else
but to bark and give warning when anybody doth stir or lie in wait about the house in the night
season. Certes it is impossible to describe these curs in any order, because they have no one
kind proper unto themselves, but are a confused company mixed of all the rest. The second sort
of them are called turnspits, whose office is not unknown to any. And as these are only reserved
for this purpose, so in many places our mastiffs (beside the use which tinkers have of them
in carrying their heavy budgets) are made to draw water in great wheels out of deep wells,
going much like unto those which are framed for our turnspits, as is to be seen at Roiston,
where this feat is often practised. Besides these also we have sholts or curs daily brought
out of Ireland, and made much of among us, because of their sauciness and quarrelling. Moreover
they bite very sore, and love candles exceedingly, as do the men and women of their country;
but I may say no more of them, because they are not bred with us. Yet this will I make report
of by the way, for pastime's sake, that when a great man of those parts came of late into one
of our ships which went thither for fish, to see the form and fashion of the same, his wife
apparelled in fine sables, abiding on the deck whilst her husband was under the hatches with
the mariners, espied a pound or two of candles hanging on the mast, and being loath to stand
there idle alone, she fell to and eat them up every one, supposing herself to have been at
a jolly banquet, and shewing very pleasant gesture when her husband came up again unto her.

The last kind of toyish curs are named dancers, and those being of a mongrel sort also, are
taught and exercised to dance in measure at the musical sound of an instrument, as at the just
stroke of a drum, sweet accent of the citharne, and pleasant harmony of the harp, shewing many
tricks by the gesture of their bodies: as to stand bolt upright, to lie flat on the ground,
to turn round as a ring holding their tails in their teeth, to saw and beg for meat, to take
a man's cap from his head, and sundry such properties, which they learn of their idle roguish
masters, whose instruments they are to gather gain, as old apes clothed in motley and coloured
short-waisted jackets are for the like vagabonds, who seek no better living than that which
they may get by fond pastime and idleness. I might here intreat of other dogs, as of those
which are bred between a bitch and a wolf, also between a bitch and a fox, or a bear and a
mastiff. But as we utterly want the first sort, except they be brought unto us: so it happeneth
sometimes that the other two are engendered and seen at home amongst us. But all the rest heretofore
remembered in this chapter there is none more ugly and odious in sight, cruel and fierce in
deed, nor untractable in hand, than that which is begotten between the bear and the bandog.
For whatsoever he catcheth hold of he taketh it so fast that a man may sooner tear and rend
his body in sunder than get open his mouth to separate his chaps. Certes he regardeth neither
wolf, bear, nor lion, and therefore may well be compared with those two dogs which were sent
to Alexander out of India (and procreated as it is thought between a mastiff and a male tiger,
as be those also of Hircania), or to them that are bred in Archadia, where copulation is oft
seen between lions and bitches, as the lion is in France (as I said) between she wolves and
dogs, whereof let this suffice, sith the further tractation of them doth not concern my purpose,
more than the confutation of Cardan's talk, De subt., lib. 10, who saith that after many generations
dogs do become wolves, and contrariwise, which if it were true, then could not England be without
many wolves: but nature hath set a difference between them, not only in outward form, but also
inward disposition of their bones, whereof it is impossible that his assertion can be sound.

CHAPTER XVI

OF THE NAVY OF ENGLAND

[1577, Book II., Chapter 13; 1587, Book II., Chapter 17.]

There is nothing that hath brought me into more admiration of the power and force of antiquity
than their diligence and care had of their navies: wherein, whether I consider their speedy
building, or great number of ships which some one kingdom or region possessed at one instant,
it giveth me still occasion either to suspect the history, or to think that in our times we
come very far behind them.[1]...

      [1] Here follows an account of Roman and Carthaginian galleys
      which "did not only match, but far exceed" in capacity our ships
      and galleys of 1587.--W.

I must needs confess therefore that the ancient vessels far exceeded ours for capacity, nevertheless
if you regard the form, and the assurance from peril of the sea, and therewithal the strength
and nimbleness of such as are made in our time, you shall easily find that ours are of more
value than theirs: for as the greatest vessel is not always the fastest, so that of most huge
capacity is not always the aptest to shift and brook the seas: as might be seen by the Great
Henry, the hugest vessel that ever England framed in our times. Neither were the ships of old
like unto ours in mould and manner of building above the water (for of low galleys in our seas
we make small account) nor so full of ease within, since time hath engendered more skill in
the wrights, and brought all things to more perfection than they had in the beginning. And
now to come unto our purpose at the first intended.

The navy of England may be divided into three sorts, of which the one serveth for the wars,
the other for burden, and the third for fishermen which get their living by fishing on the
sea. How many of the first order are maintained within the realm it passeth my cunning to express;
yet, since it may be parted into the navy royal and common fleet, I think good to speak of
those that belong unto the prince, and so much the rather, for that their number is certain
and well known to very many. Certainly there is no prince in Europe that hath a more beautiful
or gallant sort of ships than the queen's majesty of England at this present, and those generally
are of such exceeding force that two of them, being well appointed and furnished as they ought,
will not let to encounter with three or four of those of other countries, and either bowge
them or put them to flight, if they may not bring them home.

Neither are the moulds of any foreign barks so conveniently made, to brook so well one sea
as another lying upon the shore of any part of the continent, as those of England. And therefore
the common report that strangers make of our ships amongst themselves is daily confirmed to
be true, which is, that for strength, assurance, nimbleness, and swiftness of sailing, there
are no vessels in the world to be compared with ours. And all these are committed to the regiment
and safe custody of the admiral, who is so called (as some imagine) of the Greek word almiros,
a captain on the sea; for so saith Zonaras in Basilio Macedone and Basilio Porphyriogenito,
though others fetch it from ad mare, the Latin words, another sort from Amyras, the Saracen
magistrate, or from some French derivation: but these things are not for this place, and therefore
I pass them over. The queen's highness hath at this present (which is the four-and-twentieth
of her reign) already made and furnished, to the number of four or five-and-twenty great ships,
which lie for the most part in Gillingham Road, beside three galleys, of whose particular names
and furniture (so far forth as I can come by them) it shall not be amiss to make report at
this time.

The names of so many ships belonging to her majesty as I could come by at this present.

The Bonadventure.      White Bear. Elizabeth Jonas.[2]    Philip and Mary. Triumph.       
Aid. Bull.                  Handmaid. Tiger.[3]              Dreadnought. Antelope.       
Swallow. Hope.                  Genet. Lion.                  Bark of Bullen. Victory.    
Achates. Mary Rose.             Falcon. Foresight.             George. Swiftsure.         
Revenge.

      [2] A name devised by her grace in remembrance of her own
      deliverance from the fury of her enemies, from which in one
      respect she was no less miraculously preserved than was the
      prophet Jonas from the belly of the whale.--H.

      [3] So called of her exceeding nimbleness in sailing and
      swiftness of course.--H.

It is said that as kings and princes have in the young days of the world, and long since, framed
themselves to erect every year a city in some one place or other of their kingdom (and no small
wonder that Sardanapalus should begin and finish two, to wit, Anchialus and Tarsus, in one
day), so her grace doth yearly build one ship or other to the better defence of her frontiers
from the enemy. But, as of this report I have no assured certainty, so it shall suffice to
have said so much of these things; yet this I think worthy further to be added, that if they
should all be driven to service at one instance (which God forbid) she should have a power
by sea of about nine or ten thousand men, which were a notable company, beside the supply of
other vessels appertaining to her subjects to furnish up her voyage.

Beside these, her grace hath other in hand also, of whom hereafter, as their turns do come
about, I will not let to leave some further remembrance. She hath likewise three notable galleys:
the Speedwell, the Try Right, and the Black Galley, with the sight whereof, and the rest of
the navy royal, it is incredible to say how greatly her grace is delighted: and not without
great cause (I say) since by their means her coasts are kept in quiet, and sundry foreign enemies
put back, which otherwise would invade us. The number of those that serve for burden with the
other, whereof I have made mention already and whose use is daily seen, as occasion serveth
in time of the wars, is to me utterly unknown. Yet if the report of one record be anything
at all to be credited, there are one hundred and thirty-five ships that exceed five hundred
ton; topmen, under one hundred and above forty, six hundred and fifty-six; hoys, one hundred;
but of hulks, catches, fisherboats, and crayers, it lieth not in me to deliver the just account,
since they are hard to come by. Of these also there are some of the queen's majesty's subjects
that have two or three; some, four or six; and (as I heard of late) one man, whose name I suppress
for modesty's sake, hath been known not long since to have had sixteen or seventeen, and employed
them wholly to the wafting in and out of our merchants, whereby he hath reaped no small commodity
and gain. I might take occasion to tell of the notable and difficult voyages made into strange
countries by Englishmen, and of their daily success there; but as these things are nothing
incident to my purpose, so I surcease to speak of them. Only this will I add, to the end all
men shall understand somewhat of the great masses of treasure daily employed upon our navy,
how there are few of those ships, of the first and second sort, that, being apparelled and
made ready to sail, are not worth one thousand pounds, or three thousand ducats at the least,
if they should presently be sold. What shall we think then of the greater, but especially of
the navy royal, of which some one vessel is worth two of the other, as the shipwrights have
often told me? It is possible that some covetous person, hearing this report, will either not
credit it at all, or suppose money so employed to be nothing profitable to the queen's coffers:
as a good husband said once when he heard there should be a provision made for armour, wishing
the queen's money to be rather laid out to some speedier return of gain unto her grace, "because
the realm (saith he) is in case good enough," and so peradventure he thought. But if, as by
store of armour for the defence of the country, he had likewise understanded that the good
keeping of the sea is the safeguard of our land, he would have altered his censure, and soon
given over his judgment. For in times past, when our nation made small account of navigation,
how soon did the Romans, then the Saxons, and last of all the Danes, invade this island? whose
cruelty in the end enforced our countrymen, as it were even against their wills, to provide
for ships from other places, and build at home of their own whereby their enemies were oftentimes
distressed. But most of all were the Normans therein to be commended. For, in a short process
of time after the conquest of this island, and good consideration had for the well-keeping
of the same, they supposed nothing more commodious for the defence of the country than the
maintenance of a strong navy, which they speedily provided, maintained, and thereby reaped
in the end their wished security, wherewith before their times this island was never acquainted.
Before the coming of the Romans I do not read that we had any ships at all, except a few made
of wicker and covered with buffalo hides, like unto which there are some to be seen at this
present in Scotland (as I hear), although there be a little (I wot not well what) difference
between them. Of the same also Solinus speaketh, so far as I remember: nevertheless it may
be gathered from his words how the upper parts of them above the water only were framed of
the said wickers, and that the Britons did use to fast all the whiles they went to the sea
in them; but whether it were done for policy or superstition, as yet I do not read.

In the beginning of the Saxons' regiment we had some ships also; but as their number and mould
was little, and nothing to the purpose, so Egbert was the first prince that ever thoroughly
began to know this necessity of a navy and use the service thereof in the defence of his country.
After him also other princes, as Alfred, Edgar, Ethelred, etc., endeavoured more and more to
store themselves at the full with ships of all quantities, but chiefly Edgar, for he provided
a navy of 1600 aliàs 3600 sail, which he divided into four parts, and sent them to abide upon
four sundry coasts of the land, to keep the same from pirates. Next unto him (and worthy to
be remembered) is Ethelred, who made a law that every man that hold 310 hidelands should find
a ship furnished to serve him in the wars. Howbeit, as I said before, when all their navy was
at the greatest, it was not comparable for force and sure building to that which afterward
the Normans provided, neither that of the Normans anything like to the same that is to be seen
now in these our days. For the journeys also of our ships, you shall understand that a well-builded
vessel will run or sail commonly three hundred leagues or nine hundred miles in a week, or
peradventure some will go 2200 leagues in six weeks and a half. And surely, if their lading
be ready against they come thither, there be of them that will be here, at the West Indies,
and home again in twelve or thirteen weeks from Colchester, although the said Indies be eight
hundred leagues from the cape or point of Cornwall, as I have been informed. This also I understand
by report of some travellers, that, if any of our vessels happen to make a voyage to Hispaniola
or New Spain (called in time past Quinquegia and Haiti), which lieth between the north tropic
and the Equator, after they have once touched at the Canaries (which are eight days' sailing
or two hundred and fifty leagues from St. Lucas de Barameda, in Spain) they will be there in
thirty or forty days, and home again in Cornwall in other eight weeks, which is a goodly matter,
beside the safety and quietness in the passage, but more of this elsewhere.

CHAPTER XVII

OF SUNDRY KINDS OF PUNISHMENT APPOINTED FOR OFFENDERS

[1577, Book III., Chapter 6; 1587, Book II., Chapter 11.]

In cases of felony, manslaughter, robbery, murder, rape, piracy, and such capital crimes as
are not reputed for treason or hurt of the estate, our sentence pronounced upon the offender
is, to hang till he be dead. For of other punishments used in other countries we have no knowledge
or use; and yet so few grievous crimes committed with us as elsewhere in the world. To use
torment also or question by pain and torture in these common cases with us is greatly abhorred,
since we are found always to be such as despise death, and yet abhor to be tormented, choosing
rather frankly to open our minds than to yield our bodies unto such servile haulings and tearings
as are used in other countries. And this is one cause wherefore our condemned persons do go
so cheerfully to their deaths; for our nation is free, stout, haughty, prodigal of life and
blood, as Sir Thomas Smith saith, lib. 2, cap. 25, De Republica, and therefore cannot in any
wise digest to be used as villains and slaves, in suffering continually beating, servitude,
and servile torments. No, our gaolers are guilty of felony, by an old law of the land, if they
torment any prisoner committed to their custody for the revealing of his accomplices.

The greatest and most grievous punishment used in England for such as offend against the State
is drawing from the prison to the place of execution upon an hurdle or sled, where they are
hanged till they be half dead, and then taken down, and quartered alive; after that, their
members and bowels are cut from their bodies, and thrown into a fire, provided near hand and
within their own sight, even for the same purpose.

Sometimes, if the trespass be not the more heinous, they are suffered to hang till they be
quite dead. And whensoever any of the nobility are convicted of high treason by their peers,
that is to say, equals (for an inquest of yeomen passeth not upon them, but only of the lords
of parliament), this manner of their death is converted into the loss of their heads only,
notwithstanding that the sentence do run after the former order. In trial of cases concerning
treason, felony, or any other grievous crime not confessed, the party accused doth yield, if
he be a noble man, to be tried by an inquest (as I have said) and his peers; if a gentleman,
by gentlemen; and an inferior, by God and by the country, to wit, the yeomanry (for combat
or battle is not greatly in use), and, being condemned of felony, manslaughter, etc., he is
eftsoons hanged by the neck till he be dead, and then cut down and buried. But if he be convicted
of wilful murder, done either upon pretended malice or in any notable robbery, he is either
hanged alive in chains near the place where the fact was committed (or else upon compassion
taken, first strangled with a rope), and so continueth till his bones consume to nothing. We
have use neither of the wheel nor of the bar, as in other countries; but, when wilful manslaughter
is perpetrated, beside hanging, the offender hath his right hand commonly stricken off before
or near unto the place where the act was done, after which he is led forth to the place of
execution, and there put to death according to the law.

The word felon is derived of the Saxon words fell and one, that is to say, an evil and wicked
one, a one of untameable nature and lewdness not to be suffered for fear of evil example and
the corruption of others. In like sort in the word felony are many grievous crimes contained,
as breach of prison (Ann. I of Edward the Second), disfigurers of the prince's liege people
(Ann. 5 of Henry the Fourth), hunting by night with painted faces and visors (Ann. I of Henry
the Seventh), rape, or stealing of women and maidens (Ann. 3 of Henry Eight), conspiracies
against the person of the prince (Ann. 3 of Henry the Seventh), embezzling of goods committed
by the master to the servant above the value of forty shillings (Ann. 17 of Henry the Eighth),
carrying of horses or mares into Scotland (Ann. 23 of Henry Eight), sodomy and buggery (Ann.
25 of Henry the Eighth), conjuring, forgery, witchcraft, and digging up of crosses (Ann. 33
of Henry Eight), prophesying upon arms, cognisances, names, and badges (Ann. 33 of Henry Eight),
casting of slanderous bills (Ann. 37, Henry Eight), wilful killing by poison (Ann. 1 of Edward
the Sixth), departure of a soldier from the field (Ann. 2 of Edward the Sixth), diminution
of coin, all offences within case of premunire, embezzling of records, goods taken from dead
men by their servants, stealing of whatsoever cattle, robbing by the high way, upon the sea,
or of dwelling houses, letting out of ponds, cutting of purses, stealing of deer by night,
counterfeits of coin, evidences charters, and writings, and divers other needless to be remembered.
If a woman poison her husband, she is burned alive; if the servant kill his master, he is to
be executed for petty treason; he that poisoneth a man is to be boiled to death in water or
lead, although the party die not of the practice; in cases of murder, all the accessories are
to suffer pains of death accordingly. Perjury is punished by the pillory, burning in the forehead
with the letter P, the rewalting of the trees growing upon the grounds of the offenders, and
loss of all his movables. Many trespasses also are punished by the cutting off of one or both
ears from the head of the offender, as the utterance of seditious words against the magistrates,
fraymakers, petty robbers, etc. Rogues are burned through the ears; carriers of sheep out of
the land, by the loss of their hands; such as kill by poison are either boiled or scalded to
death in lead or seething water. Heretics are burned quick; harlots and their mates, by carting,
ducking, and doing of open penance in sheets in churches and market steeds, are often put to
rebuke. Howbeit, as this is counted with some either as no punishment at all to speak of, or
but little regarded of the offenders, so I would with adultery and fornication to have some
sharper law. For what great smart is it to be turned out of hot sheet into a cold, or after
a little washing in the water to be let loose again unto their former trades? Howbeit the dragging
of some of them over the Thames between Lambeth and Westminster at the tail of a boat is a
punishment that most terrifieth them which are condemned thereto; but this is inflicted upon
them by none other than the knight marshall, and that within the compass of his jurisdiction
and limits only. Canutus was the first that gave authority to the clergy to punish whoredom,
who at that time found fault with the former laws as being too severe in this behalf. For,
before the time of the said Canutus, the adulterer forfeited all his goods to the king and
his body to be at his pleasure; and the adulteress was to lose her eyes or nose, or both if
the case were more than common: whereby it appears of what estimation marriage was amongst
them, since the breakers of that holy estate were so grievously rewarded. But afterward the
clergy dealt more favourably with them, shooting rather at the punishments of such priests
and clerks as were married than the reformation of adultery and fornication, wherein you shall
find no example that any severity was shewed except upon such lay men as had defiled their
nuns. As in theft therefore, so in adultery and whoredom, I would wish the parties trespassing
to be made bond or slaves unto those that received the injury, to sell and give where they
listed, or to be condemned to the galleys: for that punishment would prove more bitter to them
than half-an-hour's hanging, or than standing in a sheet, though the weather be never so cold.

Manslaughter in time past was punished by the purse, wherein the quantity or quality of the
punishment was rated after the state and calling of the party killed: so that one was valued
sometime at 1200, another at 600, or 200 shillings. And by a statute made under Henry the First,
a citizen of London at 100, whereof elsewhere I have spoken more at large. Such as kill themselves
are buried in the field with a stake driven through their bodies.

Witches are hanged, or sometimes burned; but thieves are hanged (as I said before) generally
on the gibbet or gallows, saving in Halifax, where they are beheaded after a strange manner,
and whereof I find this report. There is and has been of ancient time a law, or rather a custom,
at Halifax, that whosoever does commit any felony, and is taken with the same, or confesses
the fact upon examination, if it be valued by four constables to amount to the sum of thirteenpence-halfpenny,
he is forthwith beheaded upon one of the next market days (which fall usually upon the Tuesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays), or else upon the same day that he is so convicted, if market be
then holden. The engine wherewith the execution is done is a square block of wood of the length
of four feet and a half, which does ride up and down in a slot, rabbet, or regall, between
two pieces of timber, that are framed and set upright, of five yards in height. In the nether
end of the sliding block is an axe, keyed or fastened with an iron into the wood, which being
drawn up to the top of the frame is there fastened by a wooden pin (with a notch made into
the same, after the manner of a Samson's post), unto the midst of which pin also there is a
long rope fastened that cometh down among the people, so that, when the offender hath made
his confession and hath laid his neck over the nethermost block, every man there present doth
either take hold of the rope (or putteth forth his arm so near to the same as he can get, in
token that he is willing to see true justice executed), and, pulling out the pin in this manner,
the head-block wherein the axe is fastened doth fall down with such a violence that, if the
neck of the transgressor were as big as that of a bull, it should be cut in sunder at a stroke
and roll from the body by a huge distance. If it be so that the offender be apprehended for
an ox, oxen, sheep, kine, horse, or any such cattle, the self beast or other of the same kind
shall have the end of the rope tied somewhere unto them, so that they, being driven, do draw
out the pin, whereby the offender is executed. Thus much of Halifax law, which I set down only
to shew the custom of that country in this behalf.

Rogues and vagabonds are often stocked and whipped; scolds are ducked upon cucking-stools in
the water. Such felons as stand mute, and speak not at their arraignment, are pressed to death
by huge weights laid upon a board, that lieth over their breast, and a sharp stone under their
backs; and these commonly held their peace, thereby to save their goods unto their wives and
children, which, if they were condemned, should be confiscated to the prince. Thieves that
are saved by their books and clergy, for the first offence, if they have stolen nothing else
but oxen, sheep, money, or such like, which be no open robberies, as by the highway side, or
assailing of any man's house in the night, without putting him in fear of his life, or breaking
up his walls or doors, are burned in the left hand, upon the brawn of the thumb, with a hot
iron, so that, if they be apprehended again, that mark betrayeth them to have been arraigned
of felony before, whereby they are sure at that time to have no mercy. I do not read that this
custom of saving by the book is used anywhere else than in England; neither do I find (after
much diligent enquiry) what Saxon prince ordained that law. Howbeit this I generally gather
thereof, that it was devised to train the inhabitants of this land to the love of learning,
which before contemned letters and all good knowledge, as men only giving themselves to husbandry
and the wars: the like whereof I read to have been amongst the Goths and Vandals, who for a
time would not suffer even their princes to be learned, for weakening of their courage, nor
any learned men to remain in the council house, but by open proclamation would command them
to avoid whensoever anything touching the state of the land was to be consulted upon. Pirates
and robbers by sea are condemned in the Court of the Admiralty, and hanged on the shore at
low-water mark, where they are left till three tides have overwashed them. Finally, such as
having walls and banks near unto the sea, and do suffer the same to decay (after convenient
admonition), whereby the water entereth and drowneth up the country, are by a certain ancient
custom apprehended, condemned, and staked in the breach, where they remain for ever as parcel
of the foundation of the new wall that is to be made upon them, as I have heard reported.

And thus much in part of the administration of justice used in our country, wherein, notwithstanding
that we do not often hear of horrible, merciless, and wilful murders (such I mean as are not
seldom seen in the countries of the main), yet now and then some manslaughter and bloody robberies
are perpetrated and committed, contrary to the laws, which be severely punished, and in such
wise as I have before reported. Certes there is no greater mischief done in England than by
robberies, the first by young shifting gentlemen, which oftentimes do bear more port than they
are able to maintain. Secondly by serving-men, whose wages cannot suffice so much as to find
them breeches; wherefore they are now and then constrained either to keep highways, and break
into the wealthy men's houses with the first sort, or else to walk up and down in gentlemen's
and rich farmers' pastures, there to see and view which horses feed best, whereby they many
times get something, although with hard adventure: it hath been known by their confession at
the gallows that some one such chapman hath had forty, fifty, or sixty stolen horses at pasture
here and there abroad in the country at a time, which they have sold at fairs and markets far
off, they themselves in the mean season being taken about home for honest yeomen, and very
wealthy drovers, till their dealings have been betrayed. It is not long since one of this company
was apprehended, who was before time reputed for a very honest and wealthy townsman; he uttered
also more horses than any of his trade, because he sold a reasonable pennyworth and was a fairspoken
man. It was his custom likewise to say, if any man hucked hard with him about the price of
a gelding, "So God help me, gentlemen (or sir), either he did cost me so much, or else, by
Jesus, I stole him!" Which talk was plain enough; and yet such was his estimation that each
believed the first part of his tale, and made no account of the latter, which was truer indeed.

Our third annoyers of the commonwealth are rogues, which do very great mischief in all places
where they become. For, whereas the rich only suffer injury by the first two, these spare neither
rich nor poor; but, whether it be great gain or small, all is fish that cometh to net with
them. And yet, I say, both they and the rest are trussed up apace. For there is not one year
commonly wherein three hundred or four hundred of them are not devoured and eaten up by the
gallows in one place and other. It appeareth by Cardan (who writeth it upon the report of the
bishop of Lexovia), in the geniture of King Edward the Sixth, how Henry the Eighth, executing
his laws very severely against such idle persons, I mean great thieves, petty thieves, and
rogues, did hang up threescore and twelve thousand of them in his time. He seemed for a while
greatly to have terrified the rest; but since his death the number of them is so increased,
yea, although we have had no wars, which are a great occasion of their breed (for it is the
custom of the more idle sort, having once served, or but seen the other side of the sea under
colour of service, to shake hand with labour for ever, thinking it a disgrace for himself to
return unto his former trade), that, except some better order be taken, or the laws already
made be better executed, such as dwell in uplandish towns and little villages shall live but
in small safety and rest. For the better apprehension also of thieves and mankillers, there
is an old law in England very well provided whereby it is ordered that, if he that is robbed
(or any man) complain and give warning of slaughter or murder committed, the constable of the
village whereunto he cometh and crieth for succour is to raise the parish about him, and to
search woods, groves, and all suspected houses and places, where the trespasser may be, or
is supposed to lurk; and not finding him there, he is to give warning unto the next constable,
and so one constable, after search made, to advertise another from parish to parish, till they
come to the same where the offender is harboured and found. It is also provided that, if any
parish in this business do not her duty, but suffereth the thief (for the avoiding of trouble
sake) in carrying him to the gaol, if he should be apprehended, or other letting of their work
to escape, the same parish is not only to make fine to the king, but also the same, with the
whole hundred wherein it standeth, to repay the party robbed his damages, and leave his estate
harmless. Certainly this is a good law; howbeit I have known by my own experience felons being
taken to have escaped out of the stocks, being rescued by other for want of watch and guard,
that thieves have been let pass, because the covetous and greedy parishioners would neither
take the pains nor be at the charge, to carry them to prison, if it were far off; that when
hue and cry have been made even to the faces of some constables, they have said: "God restore
your loss! I have other business at this time." And by such means the meaning of many a good
law is left unexecuted, malefactors emboldened, and many a poor man turned out of that which
he hath sweat and taken great pains toward the maintenance of himself and his poor children
and family.

CHAPTER XVIII

OF UNIVERSITIES

[1577, Book II., Chapter 6; 1587, Book II., Chapter 3.]

There have been heretofore, and at sundry times, divers famous universities in this island,
and those even in my days not altogether forgotten, as one at Bangor, erected by Lucius, and
afterward converted into a monastery, not by Congellus (as some write), but by Pelagius the
monk. The second at Caerleon-upon-Usk, near to the place where the river doth fall into the
Severn, founded by King Arthur. The third at Thetford, wherein were six hundred students, in
the time of one Rond, sometime king of that region. The fourth at Stamford, suppressed by Augustine
the monk. And likewise other in other places, as Salisbury, Eridon or Cricklade, Lachlade,
Reading, and Northampton; albeit that the two last rehearsed were not authorised, but only
arose to that name by the departure of the students from Oxford in time of civil dissension
unto the said towns, where also they continued but for a little season. When that of Salisbury
began I cannot tell; but that it flourished most under Henry the Third and Edward the First
I find good testimony by the writers, as also by the discord which fell, 1278, between the
chancellor for the scholars there on the one part and William the archdeacon on the other,
whereof you shall see more in the chronology here following. In my time there are three noble
universities in England--to wit, one at Oxford, the second at Cambridge, and the third in London;
of which the first two are the most famous, I mean Cambridge and Oxford, for that in them the
use of the tongues, philosophy, and the liberal sciences, besides the profound studies of the
civil law, physic, and theology, are daily taught and had: whereas in the latter the laws of
the realm are only read and learned by such as give their minds unto the knowledge of the same.
In the first there are not only divers goodly houses builded four square for the most part
of hard freestone or brick, with great numbers of lodgings and chambers in the same for students,
after a sumptuous sort, through the exceeding liberality of kings, queens, bishops, noblemen
and ladies of the land; but also large livings and great revenues bestowed upon them (the like
whereof is not to be seen in any other region, as Peter Martyr did oft affirm) to the maintenance
only of such convenient numbers of poor men's sons as the several stipends bestowed upon the
said houses are able to support.[1]...

      [1] Here follows a paragraph about the legendary foundation
      of the universities.--W.

Of these two, that of Oxford (which lieth west and by north from London) standeth most pleasantly,
being environed in manner round about with woods on the hills aloft, and goodly rivers in the
bottoms and valleys beneath, whose courses would breed no small commodity to that city and
country about if such impediments were removed as greatly annoy the same and hinder the carriage
which might be made thither also from London. That of Cambridge is distant from London about
forty and six miles north and by east, and standeth very well, saving that it is somewhat near
unto the fens, whereby the wholesomeness of the air is not a little corrupted. It is excellently
well served with all kinds of provisions, but especially of fresh water fish and wild fowl,
by reason of the river that passeth thereby; and thereto the Isle of Ely, which is so near
at hand. Only wood is the chief want to such as study there, wherefore this kind of provision
is brought them either from Essex and other places thereabouts, as is also their coal, or otherwise
the necessity thereof is supplied with gall (a bastard kind of mirtus as I take it) and seacoal,
whereof they have great plenty led thither by the Grant. Moreover it hath not such store of
meadow ground as may suffice for the ordinary expenses of the town and university, wherefore
the inhabitants are enforced in like sort to provide their hay from other villages about, which
minister the same unto them in very great abundance.

Oxford is supposed to contain in longitude eighteen degrees and eight and twenty minutes, and
in latitude one and fifty degrees and fifty minutes: whereas that of Cambridge standing more
northerly, hath twenty degrees and twenty minutes in longitude, and thereunto fifty and two
degrees and fifteen minutes in latitude, as by exact supputation is easy to be found.

The colleges of Oxford, for curious workmanship and private commodities, are much more stately,
magnificent, and commodious than those of Cambridge: and thereunto the streets of the town
for the most part are more large and comely. But for uniformity of building, orderly compaction,
and politic regiment, the town of Cambridge, as the newer workmanship,[2] exceeds that of Oxford
(which otherwise is, and hath been, the greater of the two) by many a fold (as I guess), although
I know divers that are of the contrary opinion. This also is certain, that whatsoever the difference
be in building of the town streets, the townsmen of both are glad when they may match and annoy
the students, by encroaching upon their liberties, and keep them bare by extreme sale of their
wares, whereby many of them become rich for a time, but afterward fall again into poverty,
because that goods evil gotten do seldom long endure.[3]...

      [2] Cambridge burned not long since.--H.

      [3] Here follows an account of Oxford and Cambridge castles, and
      the legend of the building of Osney Abbey by Robert and Edith
      D'Oyley.--W.

In each of these universities also is likewise a church dedicated to the Virgin Mary, wherein
once in the year--to wit, in July--the scholars are holden, and in which such as have been
called to any degree in the year precedent do there receive the accomplishment of the same,
in solemn and sumptuous manner. In Oxford this solemnity is called an Act, but in Cambridge
they use the French word Commencement; and such resort is made yearly unto the same from all
parts of the land by the friends of those who do proceed that all the town is hardly able to
receive and lodge those guests. When and by whom the churches aforesaid were built I have elsewhere
made relation. That of Oxford also was repaired in the time of Edward the Fourth and Henry
the Seventh, when Doctor Fitz James, a great helper in that work, was warden of Merton College;
but ere long, after it was finished, one tempest in a night so defaced the same that it left
few pinnacles standing about the church and steeple, which since that time have never been
repaired. There were sometime four and twenty parish churches in the town and suburbs; but
now there are scarcely sixteen. There have been also 1200 burgesses, of which 400 dwelt in
the suburbs; and so many students were there in the time of Henry the Third that he allowed
them twenty miles compass about the town for their provision of victuals.

The common schools of Cambridge also are far more beautiful than those of Oxford, only the
Divinity School of Oxford excepted, which for fine and excellent workmanship cometh next the
mould of the King's Chapel in Cambridge, than the which two, with the Chapel that King Henry
the Seventh did build at Westminster, there are not (in my opinion) made of lime and stone
three more notable piles within the compass of Europe.

In all the other things there is so great equality between these two universities as no man
can imagine how to set down any greater, so that they seem to be the body of one well-ordered
commonwealth, only divided by distance of place and not in friendly consent and orders. In
speaking therefore of the one I cannot but describe the other; and in commendation of the first
I cannot but extol the latter; and, so much the rather, for that they are both so dear unto
me as that I cannot readily tell unto whether of them I owe the most good-will. Would to God
my knowledge were such as that neither of them might have cause to be ashamed of their pupil,
or my power so great that I might worthily requite them both for those manifold kindnesses
that I have received of them! But to leave these things, and proceed with other more convenient
to my purpose.

The manner to live in these universities is not as in some other of foreign countries we see
daily to happen, where the students are enforced for want of such houses to dwell in common
inns, and taverns, without all order or discipline. But in these our colleges we live in such
exact order, and under so precise rules of government, as that the famous learned man Erasmus
of Rotterdam, being here among us fifty years passed, did not let to compare the trades in
living of students in these two places, even with the very rules and orders of the ancient
monks, affirming moreover, in flat words, our orders to be such as not only came near unto,
but rather far exceeded, all the monastical institutions that ever were devised.

In most of our colleges there are also great numbers of students, of which many are found by
the revenues of the houses and other by the purveyances and help of their rich friends, whereby
in some one college you shall have two hundred scholars, in others an hundred and fifty, in
divers a hundred and forty, and in the rest less numbers, as the capacity of the said houses
is able to receive: so that at this present, of one sort and other, there are about three thousand
students nourished in them both (as by a late survey it manifestly appeared). They were erected
by their founders at the first only for poor men's sons, whose parents were not able to bring
them up unto learning; but now they have the least benefit of them, by reason the rich do so
encroach upon them. And so far has this inconvenience spread itself that it is in my time a
hard matter for a poor man's child to come by a fellowship (though he be never so good a scholar
and worthy of that room). Such packing also is used at elections that not he which best deserveth,
but he that has most friends, though he be the worst scholar, is always surest to speed, which
will turn in the end to the overthrow of learning. That some gentlemen also whose friends have
been in times past benefactors to certain of those houses do intrude into the disposition of
their estates without all respect of order or statutes devised by the founders, only thereby
to place whom they think good (and not without some hope of gain), the case is too too evident:
and their attempt would soon take place if their superiors did not provide to bridle their
endeavours. In some grammar schools likewise which send scholars to these universities, it
is lamentable to see what bribery is used; for, ere the scholar can be preferred, such bribage
is made that poor men's children are commonly shut out, and the richer sort received (who in
time past thought it dishonour to live as it were upon alms), and yet, being placed, most of
them study little other than histories, tables, dice, and trifles, as men that make not the
living by their study the end of their purposes, which is a lamentable hearing. Beside this,
being for the most part either gentlemen or rich men's sons, they often bring the universities
into much slander. For, standing upon their reputation and liberty, they ruffle and roist it
out, exceeding in apparel, and banting riotous company (which draweth them from their books
unto another trade), and for excuse, when they are charged with breach of all good order, think
it sufficient to say that they be gentlemen, which grieveth many not a little. But to proceed
with the rest.

Every one of these colleges have in like manner their professors or readers of the tongues
and several sciences, as they call them, which daily trade up the youth there abiding privately
in their halls, to the end they may be able afterward (when their turn cometh about, which
is after twelve terms) to shew themselves abroad, by going from thence into the common schools
and public disputations (as it were "In aream") there to try their skill, and declare how they
have profited since their coming thither.

Moreover, in the public schools of both the universities, there are found at the prince's charge
(and that very largely) fine professors and readers, that is to say, of divinity, of the civil
law, physic, the Hebrew and the Greek tongues. And for the other lectures, as of philosophy,
logic, rhetoric, and the quadrivials (although the latter, I mean arithmetic, music, geometry,
and astronomy, and with them all skill in the perspectives, are now smally regarded in either
of them), the universities themselves do allow competent stipends to such as read the same,
whereby they are sufficiently provided for, touching the maintenance of their estates, and
no less encouraged to be diligent in their functions.

These professors in like sort have all the rule of disputations and other school exercises
which are daily used in common schools severally assigned to each of them, and such of their
hearers as by their skill shewed in the said disputations are thought to have attained to any
convenient ripeness of knowledge according to the custom of other universities (although not
in like order) are permitted solemnly to take their deserved degrees of school in the same
science and faculty wherein they have spent their travel. From that time forward also they
use such difference in apparel as becometh their callings, tendeth unto gravity, and maketh
them known to be called to some countenance.

The first degree is that of the general sophisters, from whence, when they have learned more
sufficiently the rules of logic, rhetoric, and obtained thereto competent skill in philosophy,
and in the mathematicals, they ascend higher unto the estate of bachelors of art, after four
years of their entrance into their sophistry. From thence also, giving their minds to more
perfect knowledge in some or all the other liberal sciences and the tongues, they rise at the
last (to wit, after other three or four years) to be called masters of art, each of them being
at that time reputed for a doctor in his faculty, if he profess but one of the said sciences
(besides philosophy), or for his general skill, if he be exercised in them all. After this
they are permitted to choose what other of the higher studies them liketh to follow, whether
it be divinity, law, or physic, so that, being once masters of art, the next degree, if they
follow physic, is the doctorship belonging to that profession; and likewise in the study of
the law, if they bend their minds to the knowledge of the same. But, if they mean to go forward
with divinity, this is the order used in that profession. First, after they have necessarily
proceeded masters of art, they preach one sermon to the people in English, and another to the
university in Latin. They answer all comers also in their own persons unto two several questions
of divinity in the open schools at one time for the space of two hours, and afterward reply
twice against some other man upon a like number and on two several dates in the same place,
which being done with commendation, he receiveth the fourth degree, that is, bachelor of divinity,
but not before he has been master of arts by the space of seven years, according to their statutes.

The next, and last degree of all, is the doctorship, after other three years, for the which
he must once again perform all such exercises and acts as are before remembered; and then is
he reputed able to govern and teach others, and likewise taken for a doctor. I have read that
John of Beverley was the first doctor that ever was in Oxford, as Beda was in Cambridge. But
I suppose herein that the word "doctor" is not so strictly to be taken in this report as it
is now used, since every teacher is in Latin called by that name, as also such in the primitive
church as kept schools of catechists, wherein they were trained up in the rudiments and principles
of religion, either before they were admitted unto baptism or any office in the Church.

Thus we see that from our entrance into the university unto the last degree received is commonly
eighteen or twenty years, in which time, if a student has not obtained sufficient learning
thereby to serve his own turn and benefit his commonwealth, let him never look by tarrying
longer to come by any more. For after this time, and forty years of age, the most part of students
do commonly give over their wonted diligence, and live like drone bees on the fat of colleges,
withholding better wits from the possession of their places, and yet doing little good in their
own vocation and calling. I could rehearse a number (if I listed) of this sort, as well in
one university as the other. But this shall suffice instead of a large report, that long continuance
in those places is either a sign of lack of friends, or of learning, or of good and upright
life, as Bishop Fox[4] sometime noted, who thought it sacrilege for a man to tarry any longer
at Oxford than he had a desire to profit.

      [4] This Fox builded Corpus Christi College, in Oxford.--H.

A man may (if he will) begin his study with the law, or physic (of which this giveth wealth,
the other honour), so soon as he cometh to the university, if his knowledge in the tongues
and ripeness of judgment serve therefor: which if he do, then his first degree is bachelor
of law, or physic; and for the same he must perform such acts in his own science as the bachelors
or doctors of divinity do for their parts, the only sermons except, which belong not to his
calling. Finally, this will I say, that the professors of either of those faculties come to
such perfection in both universities as the best students beyond the sea do in their own or
elsewhere. One thing only I mislike in them, and that is their usual going into Italy, from
whence very few without special grace do return good men whatsoever they pretend of conference
or practice, chiefly the physicians[5] who under pretence of seeking of foreign simples do
oftentimes learn the framing of such compositions as were better unknown than practised, as
I have heard often alleged, and therefore it is most true that Doctor Turner said: "Italy is
not to be seen without a guide, that is, without special grace given from God, because of the
licentious and corrupt behaviour of the people."

      [5] So much also may be inferred of lawyers.--H.

There is moreover in every house a master or provost, who has under him a president and certain
censors or deans, appointed to look to the behaviour and manners of the students there, whom
they punish very severely if they make any default, according to the quantity and quality of
their trespass. And these are the usual names of governors in Cambridge. Howbeit in Oxford
the heads of houses are now and then called presidents in respect of such bishops as are their
visitors and founders. In each of these also they have one or more treasurers, whom they call
bursarios or bursars, beside other officers whose charge is to see unto the welfare and maintenance
of these houses. Over each university also there is a several chancellor, whose offices are
perpetual, howbeit their substitutes, whom we call vice-chancellors, are changed every year,
as are also the proctors, taskers, masters of the streets, and other officers, for the better
maintenance of their policy and estate.

And thus much at this time of our two universities, in each of which I have received such degree
as they have vouchsafed--rather of their favour than my desert--to yield and bestow upon me,
and unto whose students I wish one thing, the execution whereof cannot be prejudicial to any
that meaneth well, as I am resolutely persuaded, and the case now standeth in these our days.
When any benefice therefor becometh void it were good that the patron did signify the vacation
thereof to the bishop, and the bishop the act of the patron to one of the universities, with
request that the vice-chancellor with his assistants might provide some such able man to succeed
in the place as should by their judgment be meet to take the charge upon him. Certainly if
this order were taken, then should the church be provided of good pastors, by whom God should
be glorified, the universities better stored, the simoniacal practices of a number of patrons
utterly abolished, and the people better trained to live in obedience toward God and their
prince, which were a happier estate.

To these two also we may in like sort add the third, which is at London (serving only for such
as study the laws of the realm) where there are sundry famous houses, of which three are called
by the name of Inns of the Court, the rest of the Chancery, and all built before time for the
furtherance and commodity of such as apply their minds to our common laws. Out of these also
come many scholars of great fame, whereof the most part have heretofore been brought up in
one of the aforesaid universities, and prove such commonly as in process of time rise up (only
through their profound skill) to great honour in the commonwealth of England. They have also
degrees of learning among themselves, and rules of discipline, under which they live most civilly
in their houses, albeit that the younger of them abroad in the streets are scarcely able to
be bridled by any good order at all. Certainly this error was wont also greatly to reign in
Cambridge and Oxford, between the students and the burgesses; but, as it is well left in these
two places, so in foreign countries it cannot yet be suppressed.

Besides these universities, also there are great number of grammar schools throughout the realm,
and those very liberally endowed, for the better relief of poor scholars, so that there are
not many corporate towns now under the Queen's dominion that have not one grammar school at
the least, with a sufficient living for a master and usher appointed to the same.

There are in like manner divers collegiate churches, as Windsor, Winchester, Eton, Westminster
(in which I was some time an unprofitable grammarian under the reverend father Master Nowell,
now dean of Paul's), and in those a great number of poor scholars, daily maintained by the
liberality of the founders, with meat, books, and apparel, from whence, after they have been
well entered in the knowledge of the Latin and Greek tongues, and rules of versifying (the
trial whereof is made by certain apposers yearly appointed to examine them), they are sent
to certain special houses in each university, where they are received and trained up in the
points of higher knowledge in their private halls, till they be adjudged meet to shew their
face's in the schools as I have said already.

And thus much have I thought good to note of our universities, and likewise of colleges in
the same, whose names I will also set down here, with those of their founders, to the end the
zeal which they bare unto learning may appear, and their remembrance never perish from among
the wise and learned.

OF THE COLLEGES OF CAMBRIDGE WITH THEIR FOUNDERS

Years of the Foundation     Colleges        Founders

1546   1 Trinity College       King Henry 8.

1441   2 The King's College    King Henry 6, Edward 4, Henry 7,
                               and Henry 8.

1511   3 St. John's            Lady Margaret, grandmother to Henry 8.

1505   4 Christ's College      King Henry 6 and the Lady Margaret
                               aforesaid.

1446   5 The Queen's College   Lady Margaret, wife to King Henry 6.

1496   6 Jesus College         John Alcock, bishop of Ely.

1342   7 Bennet College        The brethren of a Popish guild
                               called Corporis Christi.

1343   8 Pembroke Hall         Maria de Valentia, Countess of Pembroke.

1256   9 Peter College         Hugh Balsham, bishop of Ely.

1348  10 Gundewill and Caius   Edmund Gundevill, parson of
1557        College            Terrington, and John Caius,
                               doctor of physic.

1354  11 Trinity Hall          William Bateman, bishop of Norwich.

1326  12 Clare Hall            Richard Badow, chancellor of Cambridge.

1459  13 Catherine Hall        Robert Woodlark, doctor of divinity.

1519  14 Magdalen College      Edward, Duke of Buckingham, and
                               Thomas, lord Audley.

1585  15 Emanuel College       Sir Walter Mildmay, etc.

OF THE COLLEGES AT OXFORD

Years of the Foundation     Colleges        Founders

1539   1 Christ's Church       King Henry 8.

1459   2 Magdalen College      William Wainfleet, first fellow of
                               Merton College, then scholar at
                               Winchester, and afterwards bishop
                               there.[6]

1375   3 New College           William Wickham, bishop of Winchester.

1276   4 Merton College        Walter Merton, bishop of Rochester.

1437   5 All Souls' College    Henry Chicheley, archbishop of
                               Canterbury.

1516   6 Corpus Christi College  Richard Fox, bishop of Winchester.

1430   7 Lincoln College       Richard Fleming, bishop of Lincoln.

1323   8 Auriel College        Adam Broune, almoner to Edward 2.

1340   9 The Queen's College   R. Eglesfeld, chaplain to Philip,
                               queen of England, wife to Edward 3.

1263  10 Balliol College       John Balliol, king of Scotland.

1557  11 St. John's            Sir Thomas White, knight.

1556  12 Trinity College       Sir Thomas Pope, knight.

1316  13 Excester College      Walter Stapleten, bishop of Excester.

1513  14 Brasen Nose           William Smith, bishop of Lincoln.

1873  15 University College    William, archdeacon of Duresine.

      16 Gloucester College    John Crifford, who made it a cell
                               for thirteen monks.

      17 St. Mary's College

      18 Jesus College, now    Hugh ap Rice, doctor of the civil
         in hand               law.

      [6] He founded also a good part of Eton College, and a free
      school at Wainfleet, where he was born.

There are also in Oxford certain hotels or halls which may right well be called by the names
of colleges, if it were not that there is more liberty in them than is to be seen in the other.
In my opinion the livers in these are very like to those that are of the inns in the chancery,
their names also are these so far as I now remember:

Brodegates.            St. Mary Hall. Hart Hall.             White Hall. Magdalen Hall.   
New Inn. Alburne Hall.          Edmond Hall. Postminster Hall.

The students also that remain in them are called hostlers or halliers. Hereof it came of late
to pass that the right Reverend Father in God, Thomas, late archbishop of Canterbury, being
brought up in such an house at Cambridge, was of the ignorant sort of Londoners called an "Hostler,"
supposing that he had served with some inn-holder in the stable, and therefore, in despite,
divers hung up bottles of hay at his gate when he began to preach the gospel, whereas indeed
he was a gentleman born of an ancient house, and in the end a faithful witness of Jesus Christ,
in whose quarrel he refused not to shed his blood, and yield up his life, unto the fury of
his adversaries.

Besides these there is mention and record of divers other halls or hostels that have been there
in times past, as Beef Hall, Mutton Hall, etc., whose ruins yet appear: so that if antiquity
be to be judged by the shew of ancient buildings which is very plentiful in Oxford to be seen,
it should be an easy matter to conclude that Oxford is the elder university. Therein are also
many dwelling-houses of stone yet standing that have been halls for students, of very antique
workmanship, besides the old walls of sundry others, whose plots have been converted into gardens
since colleges were erected.

In London also the houses of students at the Common Law are these:

Sergeant's Inn.        Furnival's Inn. Gray's Inn.            Clifford's Inn. The Temple. 
Clement's Inn. Lincoln's Inn.         Lion's Inn. David's Inn.           Barnard's Inn. Staple
Inn.            Newmann.

And thus much in general of our noble universities, whose lands some greedy gripers do gape
wide for, and of late have (as I hear) propounded sundry reasons whereby they supposed to have
prevailed in their purposes. But who are those that have attempted this suit, other than such
as either hate learning, piety, and wisdom, or else have spent all their own, and know not
otherwise than by encroaching upon other men how to maintain themselves? When such a motion
was made by some unto King Henry the Eighth, he could answer them in this manner: "Ah, sirra!
I perceive the Abbey lands have fleshed you, and set your teeth on edge, to ask also those
colleges. And, whereas we had a regard only to pull down sin by defacing the monasteries, you
have a desire also to overthrow all goodness, by subversion of colleges. I tell you, sirs,
that I judge no land in England better bestowed than that which is given to our universities;
for by their maintenance our realm shall be well governed when we be dead and rotten. As you
love your welfares therefore, follow no more this vein, but content yourselves with that you
have already, or else seek honest means whereby to increase your livelihoods; for I love not
learning so ill that I will impair the revenues of any one house by a penny, whereby it may
be upholden." In King Edward's days likewise the same suit was once again attempted (as I have
heard), but in vain; for, saith the Duke of Somerset, among other speeches tending to that
end--who also made answer thereunto in the king's presence by his assignation: "If learning
decay, which of wild men maketh civil; of blockish and rash persons, wise and goodly counsellors;
of obstinate rebels, obedient subjects; and of evil men, good and godly Christians; what shall
we look for else but barbarism and tumult? For when the lands of colleges be gone, it shall
be hard to say whose staff shall stand next the door; for then I doubt not but the state of
bishops, rich farmers, merchants, and the nobility, shall be assailed, by such as live to spend
all, and think that whatsoever another man hath is more meet for them and to be at their commandment
than for the proper owner that has sweat and laboured for it." In Queen Mary's days the weather
was too warm for any such course to be taken in hand; but in the time of our gracious Queen
Elizabeth I hear that it was after a sort in talk the third time, but without success, as moved
also out of season; and so I hope it shall continue for ever. For what comfort should it be
for any good man to see his country brought into the estate of the old Goths and Vandals, who
made laws against learning, and would not suffer any skilful man to come into their council-house:
by means whereof those people became savage tyrants and merciless hell-hounds, till they restored
learning again and thereby fell to civility.

Planned and Designed at The Collier Press By William Patten

