Captain Sigsbee, too, has shown a wonderful amount of self-command in this time of great trial.
Cool and deliberate at the moment of the disaster, he gave his orders with absolute self-possession,
doing the very best that could be done to save his ship and men. The magazines were flooded
to prevent further damage, and every available step was taken with as much judgment as if he
had had the same terrible experience many times before. His first reports were worded with
the greatest care, for had he let slip one ill-advised remark it might have plunged this country
at once into the horrors of war. You will remember his despatch, and how he advised the country
to await facts before forming a judgment. This despatch did more than anything else toward
making the proper investigation possible, and the final action will in consequence be based
upon facts carefully ascertained and deliberately considered.

The latest news with regard to the movements of the board of inquiry is that it went to Key
West for a few days only, and with the intention of returning to Havana for further sittings.

       *       *       *       *       *

On February 23d, Secretary of War Long completed arrangements with the Merritt and Chapman
Wrecking Company, of New York city, and with the Boston Towboat Company, to undertake to raise
the Maine. It was agreed that they were to be paid $1,371 a day for their work, $871 a day
for the use of their regular appliances, and $500 a day in addition for the use of the great
floating derrick Monarch. On the delivery in New York of the hull of the wrecked vessel, $100,000
will be paid. It is, however, provided in the contract that the total cost of the work shall
not exceed $200,000.

The question as to the amount of the indemnity to be paid for the destruction of the Maine,
in case Spain is held liable for the disaster, has occasioned considerable comment in the press.
It has been asserted that the Government should demand at least $10,000,000, and even so large
an amount as $30,000,000 has by some been suggested as the proper sum to be asked. The ship
itself cost about $3,000,000, and the fittings several millions more. The indemnity should,
of course, cover not only the material loss of the vessel, but the loss of life and the injury
done to our Government.

       *       *       *       *       *

The divers at work on the wreck of the Maine have been steadily hampered by the difficult situation
of the vessel. In the first place, the hull is sinking into the mud at the rate of a foot a
day, and a week after the disaster the divers had to wade through mud up to their waists. Then,
too, the water is so dirty that they can hardly see below the surface.

Nevertheless, they have succeeded in bringing up many valuables, among others the paymaster's
safe containing $2,700.

       *       *       *       *       *

The opinion seems to be growing that we may never be able to discover the cause of the disaster.
The fact that the forward half of the ship has been completely destroyed adds probability to
this view. The after half, however, is reported to be practically intact.

As for the submarine mines, it may be that their existence will also remain problematical.
A prominent naval officer has explained that such mines consist merely of big metal cases filled
with gun-cotton, and that their explosion would blow them into atoms.

       *       *       *       *       *

In spite of our sensational newspapers, which had done their best to spread the "war scare,"
our country has acted in a thoroughly sensible and praiseworthy manner in relation to the disaster
of the Maine. The best of our newspapers, moreover, had also shown a willingness to avoid sensational
news for the sake of encouraging peace. This shows that we are a much less aggressive nation
than we have hitherto been thought to be.

In this connection it is worth while calling the attention of the readers of THE GREAT ROUND
WORLD to the immense influence that our newspapers may exert at a time like this. If all of
the papers had behaved as disgracefully as some have done, we might now be really on the verge
of war.

In other words, it is of the highest importance to us as a nation, with an absolutely free
press, to have for journalists men and women who possess not only ability, but character and
discretion as well. So much that was false was published in some of the papers that their reputation
for reliability has been entirely lost, and now no one pays very much attention to what they
say. They have certainly now a well-established reputation as monumental liars, and this reputation
will stick to them for a long time to come.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the minds of the public the question as to whether the Maine was blown up by accident or
design seems to have reduced itself to the question whether the harbor of Havana is fortified
with subterranean mines.

On this point some curious evidence has been presented by an American citizen who has just
returned from Cuba, where he has been for two years in the employ of a large importing house.
His name is J. P. Sherman, and he is a native of Chicago. In an interview recently published
in a New York paper, he stated that it is a fact well known to residents of Havana that its
harbor was fortified with both torpedo and submarine mines by order of General Weyler. Early
last spring Captain-General Weyler engaged the services of Charles A. Crandal, an American
torpedo expert, formerly a member of the crew of the United States ship San Francisco, to lay
out the mine and torpedo service of the harbor of Havana. Crandal worked at night, and during
the time that he was in the service of the Spanish Government he placed ten mines and seven
torpedoes in the harbor.

Crandal went to Havana in the latter part of 1895, and was employed by his firm as a packer.
He stated that he had served as a marine and diver on the United States cruiser San Francisco,
while Capt. W. T. Sampson, now president of the Maine board of inquiry, was in command of that
vessel.

Crandal left their employ in May of last year, and soon after said that he had entered General
Weyler's employ and was working on mines and torpedoes.

When General Weyler left Havana the map showing the location of these mines and torpedoes was
transferred to the custody of a spy, known throughout Havana as Captain del Pedrio, who was
seen on more than one occasion on board the battle-ship Maine in his capacity as captain of
the harbor police.

The mines and torpedoes were connected with an electric firing plant in the magazine diagonally
across the channel from Morro Castle, and it would have been one of the easiest things in the
world for one of the spies to have placed the switch and blown the Maine out of the water.

Weyler received in July or August a consignment of ten large casks, which Sherman himself saw
in the Custom-House shed. Crandal told him that these contained mines, which he claimed were
to be placed on the west side of the island to prevent filibustering. When Crandal had completed
his work of placing the mines and torpedoes in the harbor he was retained in the Spanish service,
but when General Weyler was recalled he took Crandal to Madrid with him.

In contradiction of Sherman's statement, one of the Madrid newspapers which is known to express
the views of General Weyler declares that it has the authority of one of the chiefs of the
army, supposed to be Weyler himself, for saying that there are no submarine mines beneath the
harbor of Havana.

       *       *       *       *       *

After staying for only a few days in the harbor of New York, the Vizcaya quietly sailed away
to Havana.

Her departure was a great relief to our Government, not because she was a menace to the safety
of New York, but because it was feared that harm might come to her while she was in American
waters.

The presence of the vessel, however, in the greatest of our ports at so critical a time made
the War Department realize the importance of protecting New York more carefully. So the United
States monitor Terror was sent to New York harbor and will remain there for the present. Work
is being pushed on other war-vessels that are in the shipyards for repair or in process of
construction, as it is quite possible that we may need our whole strength at any time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Last week we referred to the report that a strong feeling was growing in Washington in favor
of putting an end to the Cuban war by having the United States purchase Cuba.

The report has reached Spain and has brought out the following despatch from a correspondent
in Madrid:

"I have it on the highest authority that Spain will never, no matter what government is in
power, consider any such suggestion or any compromise in Cuba beyond the broad measure of autonomy
drafted by the liberal government.

"This is an absolute, irrevocable decision. People who suggest anything else are only wasting
time and arousing unfounded hopes in the minds of the rebels."

Spain's feeling whenever mention is made of possible interference in Cuba by another power
was lately shown by the indignation expressed in Madrid at the report that Bismarck wanted
the war to be settled by arbitration. The Spanish Premier, Señor Sagasta, refused to believe
the rumor, and declared that "No one would dare to propose such an absurdity," and that "No
Spanish government would listen to or dream of such a proposal."

In view of this news, the present attitude of Congress toward Cuba is by no means reassuring.
Many of the Republican Congressmen are strongly in favor of passing the Senate resolution recognizing
the belligerent rights of the Cuban insurgents. This resolution was "shelved" some time ago
by being referred to the House Committee of Foreign Affairs. So warm is the sentiment in favor
of Cuba throughout the country, that many members of the House of Representatives are said
to believe that they must pass a definite measure in support of the insurgents before Congress
adjourns.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is reported that Consul-General Lee has been quietly advising the American families in Havana
to leave Cuba. On the other hand, we have good authority for the statement that the captains
of the American ships in the harbor of Havana have been informed by our Government that they
are in no danger, and may, with assurance of safety, remain in the harbor.

This is an example of the contradictory news that is constantly coming to us from Cuba.

The fact remains, however, that there is in Havana a strong anti-American feeling. The Spaniards
seem to believe that we are not sincere in our declarations that we do not want to interfere
in the war or to secure possession of the island.

The friends of General Weyler seem to be particularly hostile to us. It is said that, in case
the destruction of the Maine is found to have been caused by a plot, they will join forces
with the other enemies of the United States in Cuba and attack the Americans in Havana.

       *       *       *       *       *

On February 26th, while King George of Greece was riding through the streets of Athens with
his daughter, the Princess Maria, two men fired several shots at him. The driver of his carriage
whipped up the horses and the King escaped injury. One of the footmen was wounded in the arm.

King George displayed great bravery. As soon as the first shot was fired he rose from his seat
and stood between the Princess and the would-be assassins.

It is supposed that the attack was due to the unpopularity which the King acquired among many
of his subjects during the late war between Greece and Turkey. The King's escape, however,
was made the cause of great rejoicing and thanksgiving in Athens. From all parts of the civilized
world, too, telegrams of congratulation were sent to him.

King George is the second son of the King of Denmark, and brother of the Princess of Wales.
He was born in Denmark in 1845, and was elected in 1863 by the National Assembly at Athens
to fill the vacancy in the Greek throne. Four years later he married the Grand Duchess Olga,
niece of the late Emperor Alexander II. of Russia.

Until the Græco-Turkish war broke out, King George was one of the most popular monarchs in
Europe. He believed in a liberal form of government and he lived in a very simple and democratic
style. His wife, too, was highly esteemed for her fine character and abilities. She soon became
known for her great love of the sea, and she is said to be the only woman in any navy in the
world who holds a commission as admiral.

When, about a year ago, King George defied Turkey and the great powers of Europe in his brave
defence of Crete, and actually went to war with a power vastly stronger than his own little
kingdom, he was applauded for his courage in nearly every country of the civilized world. It
was even thought that Greece was on the verge of winning back her old glory.

But the result proved to be a bitter disappointment. The Greeks were utterly routed, and King
George and Crown Prince Constantine, his son, were accused of having shamefully mismanaged
the war. At one time it looked as if the royal family would be driven from Greece. It was reported
also that King George intended to abdicate.

Since the close of the war, however, the King has appeared in some measure to have strengthened
his position in Athens. The attempt on his life, however, suggests that the feeling against
him among his people must still be strong. It is reported that during the last few months his
life has been repeatedly threatened.

Two days after the attack was made on the King, one of his assailants, while being searched
for, gave himself up.

He proved to be an ignorant man named Karditza. It is thought that his mind had been inflamed
against King George by the severe criticisms made on the King by some of the more violent newspapers
in Athens. He has made a confession showing that a conspiracy was formed by a political society
against the King's life.

A dynamite-bomb was discovered by the police near the spot where the shooting took place.

       *       *       *       *       *

England has maintained her firm position with regard to her claims in Western Africa. She has
informed France most emphatically that she does not propose to be interfered with there as
she was by the French colonists in Madagascar.

She has practically persuaded France to agree that she shall have absolute control of the Niger
River. This means that the river will be kept open to the commerce of the whole world.

It is said that at first Monsieur Hanotaux, the French foreign minister, did not believe that
Lord Salisbury would maintain his position in the matter, and that this belief encouraged him
to send the French troops into Western Africa. But, with the assistance of Mr. Chamberlain,
who is a shrewd diplomatist as well as a man of nerve, Lord Salisbury held firmly to his point.

It is now known that the difficulties have been practically settled, and that France, though
she has secured some concessions, has practically backed down in favor of England.

Nothing pleases the English more than to have their own way against the French. The English
and the French have been natural enemies for generations. The feeling of the French toward
the English is even more bitter than their hostility to the Germans.

