5. Next begin on line C-C at circle 1, and draw a line connecting it with D-D on circle 1´
then to line A-A on circle 2, and so on as before. This spiral represents the center of the
groove or the portion which is to be cut away. This is not shown in the diagram because more
or less confusion would be caused with the line representing the ridge of the spiral.

6. Begin on line C-C at circle 1, and saw to a depth of 3/4". Saw the entire length of the
cylinder leaving about 1-1/2" at the ends. Do not follow the line here, but switch off gradually
and follow circles 1 and 15, so as to allow the spiral to begin and end gradually and not abruptly.

7. Rough out with a knife or chisel by cutting on both sides of the saw cut. Then use a wood
rasp to finish shaping out the spiral. When properly shaped out allow the lathe to turn slowly
and smooth with sandpaper by following the spiral as the lathe turns.

8. Cut the design on both ends of the cylinder and polish.

PLATES B-V--2-a, a´, a´´. SINGLE SPIRAL. TAPERED SHAFT

To lay off a single spiral for the electric lamp shown in Figs. 24 and 24a proceed as follows:

1. Select your wood and bore a hole through it. Plug the hole and center the piece in the lathe.
This insures getting the hole exactly in the center, and it will not be cut into while the
cutting of the groove of the spiral proceeds. A groove may also be cut in two pieces of stock
and glued together to form a hole through the stock.

2. Turn a cylinder 2-1/2" in diameter, tapering it to 1-1/2" at the one end; this part should
be 12-1/8" long. Both ends should be left larger than 2-1/2" as the lower and upper designs
must be cut here.

3. Let the spindle revolve in the lathe and draw circles as shown in the layout (Plate B-V--2-a´).
The number of circles will vary with the taper. Since seven turns are needed in the present
spiral, 28 circles will be necessary--four circles for each turn of the spiral as shown in
the middle diagram. A good proportion to follow is to measure the diameter of the spindle at
circle 2 and lay off this distance from circle 1 to circle 3. Then measure the diameter at
circle 4 and lay off this diameter from circle 3 to circle 5 and so on until all circles have
been made. Then divide these large divisions into four equal parts.

4. Draw four lines the entire length of the spindle, each 90° apart as shown by the heavy lines
in the middle diagram. The heavy circles of the same diagram represent the complete turns of
the spiral.

5. Lay out the line representing the ridge of the spiral as shown in the middle diagram. Begin
on circle 1, where the straight line crosses it, draw to circle 1´ at the point where the next
straight line crosses it, then to 2--2´--3--3´ and so on until the end is reached. This forms
the ridge of the spiral as shown in diagram 3. Next it may be more convenient to draw another
line representing the groove. In this case begin at point X in the middle diagram, opposite
the point where first started, and continue in the preceding manner, making this line parallel
to the other line.

6. Saw on the line last made, being careful not to saw too deeply. The depth must be 1/4" less
than half the diameter of the spindle where the cut is made. This saw cut forms the groove
of the spiral. The groove is then cut out by hand with a chisel or knife, by working down the
wood on both sides of the saw cut. After the spirals have been roughed out, a rasp is used
to finish shaping them. The work is then sandpapered smooth, while the spindle is revolved
slowly in the lathe.

7. Cut designs on the ends of the cylinder and polish.

PLATES B-V--2-b, b´. DOUBLE SPIRAL. TAPERED SHAFT

To work out a double spiral for the electric lamp illustrated in Fig. 25 proceed as follows:

