In the Railway Traveller’s Handy Book, there is an account of an occurrence which took place
on the Eastern Counties line:—“A big hulking fellow, with bully written on his face, took his
seat in a second-class carriage, and forthwith commenced insulting everybody by his words and
gestures.  He was asked to desist, but only responded with language more abusive.  The guard
was then appealed to, who told him to mind what he was about, shut the door, and cried ‘all
right.’  Thus encouraged the miscreant continued his disgraceful conduct, and became every
moment more outrageous.  In one part of the carriage were four farmers sitting who all came
from the same neighbourhood, and to whom every part along the line was well known.  One of
these wrote on a slip of paper these words, ‘Let us souse him in Chuckley Slough.’  This paper
was handed from one to the other, and each nodded assent.  Now, Chuckley Slough was a pond
near one of the railway stations, not very deep, but the waters of which were black, muddy,
and somewhat repellent to the olfactory nerves.  The station was neared and arrived at; in
the meantime the bully’s conduct became worse and worse.  As they emerged from the station,
one of the farmers, aforesaid, said to the fellow, ‘Now, will you he quiet?’  ‘No, I won’t,’
was the answer.  ‘You won’t, won’t you?’ asked a second farmer. ‘You’re determined you won’t?’
inquired a third.  ‘You’re certain you won’t?’ asked the fourth.  To all of which queries the
response was in negatives, with certain inelegant expletives added thereto.  ‘Then,’ said the
four farmers speaking as one man, and rising in a body, ‘out you go.’ So saying, they seized
the giant form of the wretch, who struggled hard to escape but to no purpose; they forced him
to the window, and while the train was still travelling at a slow pace, and Chuckley Slough
appeared to view, they without more ado thrust the huge carcass through the window, and propelling
it forward with some force, landed it exactly in the centre of the black, filthy slough.  The
mingled cries and oaths of the man were something fearful to hear; his attempts at extrication
and incessant slipping still deeper in the mire, something ludicrous to witness; all the passengers
watched him with feelings of gratified revenge, and the last that was seen of him was a huge
black mass, having no traces of humanity about it, crawling up the bank in a state of utter
prostration.  In this instance the remedy was rather a violent one; but less active measures
had been found to fail, and there can be little doubt that this man took care ever afterwards
not to run the risk of a similar punishment by indulging in conduct of a like nature.”

LIABILITY OF COMPANIES FOR DELAY OF TRAINS.

There have been cases where claims have been made and recovered in courts of law for loss arising
from delay in the arrival of trains, but the law does not render the company’s liability unlimited.
A remarkable case occurred not long since.  A Mr. Le Blanche sued the London and North-Western
Company for the cost of a special train to Scarborough, which he had ordered in consequence
of his being brought from Liverpool to Leeds, too late for the ordinary train from Leeds to
Scarborough.  A judgment in the county court was given in favour of the applicant.

The railway company appealed to the superior court, and the points raised were argued by able
counsel, when the decision of the county court judge was confirmed.  The company was determined
to put the case to the utmost possible test, and on appealing to the Supreme Court of Judicature
the judgment was reversed, the decision being to the effect that, whilst there was some evidence
of wilful delay, the measure of damage was wrong.

                                       —Our Railways, by Joseph Parsloe.

THE DYING ENGINE DRIVER.

Doubts have been expressed whether our iron ships will ever be regarded in the same affectionate
way as “liners” used to be regarded by our “old salts.”  It has been supposed that the latest
creations of science will not nourish sentiment.  The following anecdote shows, however, as
romantic an attachment to iron as was ever manifested towards wood.  On the Great Western Railway,
the broad gauge and the narrow gauge are mixed; the former still existing to the delight of
travellers by the “Flying Dutchman,” whatever economical shareholders may have to say to the
contrary.  The officials who have been longest on the staff also cling to the broad gauge,
like faithful royalists to a fast disappearing dynasty.  The other day an ancient guard on
this line was knocked down and run over by an engine; and though good enough medical attendance
was at hand, had skill been of any use, the dying man wished to see “the company’s” doctor.
The gentleman, a man much esteemed by all the employés, was accordingly sent for.  “I am glad
you came to see me start, doctor, (as I hope) by the up-train,” said the poor man.  “I am only
sorry I can do nothing for you, my good fellow,” answered the other.  “I know that; it is all
over with me.  But there!—I’m glad it was not one of them narrow-gauge engines that did it!”

                                                  —Gentleman’s Magazine.

“DOWN BRAKES,” OR FORCE OF HABIT.

An Illinois captain, lately a railroad conductor, was drilling a squad, and while marching
them by flank, turned to speak to a friend for a moment.  On looking again toward his squad,
he saw they were in the act of “butting up” against a fence.  In his hurry to halt them, he
cried, “Down brakes!  Down brakes!”

TRENT STATION.

This station on the Midland system is often a source of no little perplexity to strangers.
Sir Edward Beckett thus humorously describes it:—“You arrive at Trent.  Where that is I cannot
tell.  I suppose it is somewhere near the river Trent, but then the Trent is a very long river.
You get out of your train to obtain refreshment, and having taken it, you endeavour to find
your train and your carriage.  But whether it is on this side or that, and whether it is going
north or south, this way or that way, you cannot tell.  Bewildered, you frantically rush into
your carriage; the train moves off round a curve, and then you are horrified to see some lights
glaring in front of you, and you are in immediate expectation of a collision, when your fellow-passenger
calms your fears by telling you that they are only the tail lamps of your own train.”

STEEL RAILS.

The first steel rail was made in 1857, by Mushet, at the Ebbw-Vale Iron Co.’s works in South
Wales.  It was rolled from cast blooms of Bessemer steel and laid down at Derby, England, and
remained sixteen years, during which time 250 trains and at least 250 detached engines and
tenders passed over it daily.  Taking 312 working days in each year, we have the total of 1,252,000
trains and 1,252,000 detached engines and tenders which passed over it from the time it was
first laid before it was removed to be worked over.

The substitution of steel for iron, to an extent rendered possible by the Bessemer process,
has worked a great and abiding change in the condition of our ways, giving greater endurance
both in respect of wear and in resistance to breaking strains and jars.

Two steel rails of twenty-one feet in length were laid on the 2nd of May, 1862, at the Chalk
Farm Bridge, side by side with two ordinary rails. After having outlasted sixteen faces of
the ordinary rails, the steel ones were taken up and examined, and it was found that at the
expiration of three years and three months, the surface was evenly worn to the extent of only
a little more than a quarter of an inch, and to all appearance they were capable of enduring
a great deal more work.  The result of this trial was to induce the London and North Western
to enter very extensively into the employment of steel rails.

                                       Knight’s Dictionary of Mechanics.

CURIOUS CASUALTY.

Out of three truck loads of cattle on the Great Western Railway two of the animals were struck
dead by the lightning on Monday afternoon, July 5, 1852, not very far from Swindon.  What renders
it remarkable is, that one animal only in each of the two trucks was struck, and five or six
animals in each escaped uninjured.  The animal killed in one of the trucks was a bull, the
cows escaping injury, and in the other truck it was a bull or an ox that was killed.

GEORGE STEPHENSON’S WEDDING PRESENT.

A correspondent, writing to the Derbyshire Courier the week following the Stephenson Centenary
celebration at Chesterfield, remarks:—“The other day I met a kindly and venerable gentleman
who possesses quite a fund of anecdotes relating to the Stephensons, father and son.  It appears
we have, or had, relations of old George residing in Derby.  Years ago, says my friend, an
old gentleman, who by his appearance and carriage was stamped as a man distinguished among
his fellow-men, was inquiring on Derby platform for a certain engine-driver in the North Midland
or the Birmingham and Derby service, whose name he gave.  On the driver being pointed out,
the gentleman, with the rough but pleasing north-country burr in his voice, said, after asking
his name, “Did you marry —?”  “Yes, sir.”  “Then she’s my niece, and I hope you’ll make her
a good husband. I have not had the chance of giving you a wedding present until now.” Then
slipping into his hand a bank note for £50, he talked of other matters.  The joy of the engine-driver
at receiving so welcome a present was not greater than being recognised and kindly received
by his wife’s illustrious uncle, George Stephenson.”

THE POLITE IRISHMAN.

It’s a small matter, but a gentleman always feels angry at himself after he has given up his
seat, in a railway car, to a female who lacks the good manners to acknowledge the favour. 
The following “hint” to the ladies will show that a trifle of politeness properly spread on,
often has a happy effect.

The seats were all full, one of which was occupied by a rough-looking Irishman; and at one
of the stations a couple of evidently well-bred and intelligent young ladies came in to procure
seats, but seeing no vacant ones, were about to go into a back car, when Patrick rose hastily,
and offered them his seat, with evident pleasure.  “But you will have no seat yourself?” responded
one of the young ladies with a smile, hesitating, with true politeness, as to accepting it.
“Never ye mind that!” said the Hibernian, “ye’r welcome to ’t!  I’d ride upon the cow-catcher
till New York, any time, for a smile from such jintlemanly ladies;” and retreated hastily to
the next car, amid the cheers of those who had witnessed the affair.

AN ENTERTAINING COMPANION.

Once, during a tour in the Western States, writes Mr. Florence, the actor, an incident occurred
in which I rather think I played the victim. We were en route from Cleveland to Cincinnati,
an eight or ten-hour journey.  After seeing my wife comfortably seated, I walked forward to
the smoking car, and, taking the only unoccupied place, pulled out my cigar case, and offered
a cigar to my next neighbour.  He was about sixty years of age, gentlemanly in appearance,
and of a somewhat reserved and bashful mien.  He gracefully accepted the cigar, and in a few
minutes we were engaged in conversation.

“Are you going far west?” I inquired.

“Merely so far as Columbus.”  (Columbus, I may explain is the capital of Ohio.)  “And you,
sir?” he added, interrogatively.

“I am journeying toward Cincinnati.  I am a theatrical man, and play there to-morrow night.”
I was a young man then, and fond of avowing my profession.

“Oh, indeed!  Your face seemed familiar to me as you entered the car.  I am confident we have
met before.”

“I have acted in almost every State in the Union,” said I.  “Mrs. Florence and I are pretty
generally known throughout the north-west.”

“Bless me?” said the stranger in surprise, “I have seen you act many times, sir, and the recollection
of Mrs. Florence’s ‘Yankee Girl,’ with her quaint songs, is still fresh in my memory.”

“Do you propose remaining long in Columbus?”

“Yes, for seven years,” replied my companion.

Thus we chatted for an hour or two.  At length my attention was attracted to a little, red-faced
man, with small sharp eyes, who sat immediately opposite us and amused himself by sucking the
knob of a large walking stick which he carried caressingly in his hand.  He had more than once
glanced at me in a knowing manner, and now and then gave a sly wink and shake of the head at
me, as much as to say, “Ah, old fellow, I know you, too.”

These attentions were so marked that I finally asked my companion if he had noticed them.

“That poor man acts like a lunatic,” said I, sotto voce.

“A poor half-witted fellow, possibly,” replied my fellow-traveller.  “In your travels through
the country, however, Mr. Florence, you must have often met such strange characters.”

We had now reached Crestline, the dinner station, and, after thanking the stranger for the
agreeable way in which he had enabled me to pass the journey up to this point, I asked him
if he would join Mrs. Florence and myself at dinner.  This produced an extraordinary series
of grimaces and winks from the red-faced party aforesaid.  The invitation to dinner was politely
declined.

The repast over, our train sped on toward Cincinnati.  I told my wife that in the smoking car
I had met a most entertaining gentleman, who was well posted in theatricals, and was on his
way to Columbus.  She suggested that I should bring him into our car, and present him to her.
I returned to the smoking car and proposed that the gentleman should accompany me to see Mrs.
Florence.  The proposal made the red-faced man undergo a species of spasmodic convulsions which
set the occupants of the car into roars of laughter.

“No, I thank you,” said my friend, “I feel obliged to you for the courtesy, but I prefer the
smoking car.  Have you another cigar?”

“Yes,” said I, producing another Partaga.

I again sat by his side, and once more our conversation began, and we were quite fraternal.
We talked about theatres and theatricals, and then adverted to political economy, the state
of the country, finance and commerce in turn, our intimacy evidently affording intense amusement
to the foxy-faced party near us.

Finally the shrill sound of the whistle and the entrance of the conductor indicated that we
had arrived at Columbus, and the train soon arrived at the station.

“Come,” said the red-faced individual, now rising from his seat and tapping my companion on
the shoulder, “This is your station, old man.”

My friend rose with some difficulty, dragging his hitherto concealed feet from under the seat,
when, for the first time, I discovered that he was shackled, and was a prisoner in charge of
the Sheriff, going for seven years to the state prison at Columbus.

NOVEL ATTACK.

Auxerre, November 15th, 1851.—Last week, at the moment when a railway tender was passing along
the line from Saint Florentin to Tonnerre, a wolf boldly leaped upon it and attacked the stoker.
The man immediately seized his shovel and repulsed the aggressor, who fell upon the rail and
was instantly crushed to pieces.

                                                              —National.

WOLVES ON A RAILWAY.

In 1867, “A cattle train on the Luxemburg Railway was stopped,” says the Nord, “two nights
back, between Libramont and Poix by the snow.  The brakesman was sent forward for aid to clear
the line, and while the guard, fireman, engine-driver, and a customs officer were engaged in
getting the snow from under the engine they were alarmed by wolves, of which there were five,
and which were attracted, no doubt, by the scent of the oxen and sheep cooped up in railed-in
carriages.  The men had no weapons save the fire utensils belonging to the engine.  The wolves
remained in a semicircle a few yards distant, looking keenly on.  The engine-driver let off
the steam and blew the whistle, and lanterns were waved to and fro, but the savage brutes did
not move.  The men then made their way, followed by the wolves, to the guard’s carriage.  Three
got in safe; whilst the fourth was on the step one of the animals sprang on him, but succeeded
only in tearing his coat.  They all then made an attack, but were beaten off, one being killed
by a blow on the head.  Two hours elapsed before assistance arrived, and during that time the
wolves made several attacks upon the sheep trucks, but failed to get in.  None of the cattle
were injured.”

ARTEMUS WARD’S SUGGESTION.

“I was once,” he remarks, “on a slow California train, and I went to the conductor and suggested
that the cowketcher was on the wrong end of the train; for I said, ‘You will never overtake
a cow, you know; but if you’d put it on the other end it might be useful, for now there’s nothin’
on earth to hinder a cow from walkin’ right in and bitin’ the folks!”

COACH VERSUS RAILWAY ACCIDENTS.

A coachman once remarked, “Why you see, sir, if a coach goes over and spills you in the road
there you are; but if you are blown up by an engine, where are you?”

BAVARIAN GUARDS AND BAVARIAN BEER.

“In England,” says Mr. Wilberforce, “the guard is content to be the servant of the train; in
Germany he is in command of the passengers. ‘When is the train going on?’ asked an Englishman
once of a foreign guard.  ‘Whenever I choose,’ was the answer.  To judge from the delays the
trains make at some of the stations, one would suppose that the guard had uncontrolled power
of causing stoppages.  You see him chatting with the station-master for several minutes after
all the carriages have been shut up, and at last, when the topics of conversation are exhausted,
he gives a condescending whistle to the engine-driver.  Time seems never to be considered by
either guards or passengers.  Bavarians always go to the station half-an-hour before the train
is due, and their indifference to delay is so well known that the directors can put on their
time book ‘As the time of departure from small stations cannot be guaranteed, the travellers
must be there twenty-five minutes beforehand.’”  Mr. Wilberforce should not have omitted to
mention the main cause of these delays, which appears at the same time to constitute the final
cause of a Bavarian’s existence—Beer.  Guards and passengers alike require alcoholic refreshment
at least at every other station.  At Culmbach, the fountain of the choicest variety of Bavarian
beer, the practice had risen to such a head that, as we found last summer, government had been
forced to interfere.  To prevent trains from dallying if there was beer to drink at Culmbach
was obviously impossible.  The temptation itself was removed; and no beer was any longer allowed
to be sold at that fated railway station, by reason of its being so superlatively excellent.

                                                 —Saturday Review, 1864.

THE RAILWAY SWITCH-TENDER AND HIS CHILD.

