Winter was one of those Lovelaces who never deceive a woman without robbing her. I thought
that amongst his victims I could find at least one, who, from a spirit of revenge, would be
disposed to put me on the scent of this monster. By dint of searching, I thought I had met
with a willing auxiliary, but as these Ariadnes, however ill used or forsaken they may be,
yet shrink from the immolation of their betrayer, I determined to accost the damsel I met with
cautiously. It was necessary, before I ventured my bark, to take soundings, and I took care
not to manifest any hostility towards Winter, and not to alarm that residue of tenderness,
which, despite of ill usage, always remains in a sensitive heart. I made my appearance in the
character of almoner of the regiment of which he was thought to command, and as such introduced
to the ci-devant mistress of the pretended colonel. The costume, the language, the manner I
assumed were in perfect unison with the character I was about to play, and I obtained to my
wish the confidence of the fair forsaken one, who gave me unwittingly all the information I
required. She pointed out to me her favoured rival, who, already ill-treated by Winter, had
still the weakness to see him, and could not forbear making fresh sacrifices for him.

I became acquainted with this charming lady, and to obtain favour in her eyes, announced myself
as a friend of her lover's family. The relatives of the young giddy pate had empowered me to
pay his debts; and if she could contrive an interview with him for me, she might rely on being
satisfied with the result of the first. Madame ------ was not sorry to have an opportunity
of repairing the dilapidations made on her property, and one morning sent me a note, stating
that she was going to dine with her lover the next day at the Boulevard du Temple, at La Galiote.
At four o'clock I went, disguised as a messenger, and stationed myself at the door of the restaurant's;
and after two hours' watch, I saw a colonel of hussars approach. It was Winter, attended by
two servants. I went up to him, and offered to take care of the horses, which proffer was accepted.
Winter alighted, he could not escape me, but his eyes met mine, and with one jump he flung
himself on his horse, spurred him, and disappeared.

I thought I had him, and my disappointment was great; but I did not despair of catching my
gentleman. Some time afterwards I learnt that he was to be at the Café Hardi, in the Boulevard
des Italiens. I went thither with some of my agents, and when he arrived all was so well arranged,
that he had only to get into a hackney coach, of which I paid the fare. Led before a commissary
of police, he asserted that he was not Winter; but, despite the insignia of the rank he had
conferred on himself, and the long string of orders hanging on his breast, he was properly
and officially identified as the individual mentioned in the warrant which I had for his apprehension.

Winter was sentenced to eight years' imprisonment, and would now be at liberty but for a forgery
which he committed while at Bicêtre, which, bringing on him a fresh sentence of eight years
at the galleys, he was conducted to the Bagne at the expiration of his original sentence, and
is there at present.

This adventurer does not want wit: he is, I am told, the author of a vast many songs, much
in fashion with the galley slaves, who consider him us their Anacreon.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT TYRE.

The Tyrians, although not so early celebrated either in sacred or profane history, had yet
attained greater renown than their Sidonian kinsmen. It is useless to conjecture at what period
or under what circumstances these eastern colonists had quitted the shores of the Persian gulf,
and fixed their seat on the narrow belt between the mountains of Lebanon and the sea. Probably
at first they were only factories, established for connecting the trade between the eastern
and western world. If so, their origin must be sought among the natives to the east of the
Assyrians, as that race of industrious cultivators possessed no shipping, and was hostile to
commerce. The colonists took root on this shore, became prosperous and wealthy, covered the
Mediterranean with their fleets, and its shores with their factories. Tyre in the course of
time became the dominant city, and under her supremacy were founded the Phoenician colonies
in Greece, Sicily, Africa, and Spain. The wealth of her merchant princes had often tempted
the cupidity of the despots of Asia. Salmanassar, the Assyrian conqueror of Israel, directed
his attacks against Tyre, and continued them for five years, but was finally compelled to raise
the siege. Nabuchadonosor was more persevering, and succeeded in capturing the city, after
a siege that lasted thirteen years. The old town, situated on the continent was never rebuilt;
but a new Tyre rose from its ruins. This occupied the area of a small island, described by
Pliny as two miles and a half in circumference. On this confined space a large population existed,
and remedied the want of extent by raising story upon story, on the plan followed by the ancient
inhabitants of Edinburgh. It was separated from the main land by an armlet of the sea, about
half a mile in breadth and about eighteen feet deep. The city was encircled by walls and fortifications
of great strength and height, and scarcely pregnable even if accessible.

Family Library, No. 3.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR WILLIAM DEVEREUX,

A Portrait--by the Author of Pelham.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Gatherer.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lord Sundon was one of the commissioners of the treasury in the reign of George II. The celebrated
Bob Doddington was a colleague of the noble lord, and was always complaining of his slowness
of comprehension. One day that lord Sundon laughed at something which Doddington had said,
Winnington, another member of the board, said to him, in a whisper, "You are very ungrateful:
you see lord Sundon takes your joke." "No, no," replied Doddington, "he is laughing now at
what I said last board day."--Monthly Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

STINGING MISTAKE.

A certain person, who shall be nameless, filled the situation of Plumian Professor of Astronomy
at Oxford. He was a great stickler for decorum, and all due respect to his office. One day
he received a letter by the post, directed to himself, as the Plumbian Professor. He shook
with indignation. What an insult! Plumbian professor! Leaden professor! Was it meant to insinuate
that there was any thing of a leaden quality in his lectures or writings! While thus irate,
a friend of the professor happened to drop in. He showed him the letter, and expatiated upon
the indignity of the superscription. His friend endeavoured to convince him that it must be
merely a slip of the pen. In vain. The professor would not be pacified. "Well," said his friend,
"at any rate, it is evident the b has stung you."--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

An Irish barrister had the failing of Goldsmith, in an eminent degree: that of believing he
could do every thing better than any other person. This propensity exhibited itself ludicrously
enough on one occasion, when a violent influenza prevailed in Dublin. A friend who happened
to meet him, mentioned a particular acquaintance, and observed that he had had the influenza
very bad. "Bad!" exclaimed the other, "I don't know how bad he has had it, but I am sure I
have had it quite as bad as he, or any one else."--"Not quite, I think," replied his friend,
"for poor Mr. Gillicuddy is dead."--"Well," rejoined our tenacious optimist, "and what of that?
I could have died too, if I had liked it."--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LATE SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, BART.

THE SUPPLEMENT, containing Title, Preface, and Index to Vol. xiii. and a fine Steel-plate

PORTRAIT OF SIR HUMPHRY DAVY, BART.

With a copious Memoir of his interesting Life and Discoveries, Notices of his Literary Works,
&c. is now Publishing.