The idlers on the benches showed no inclination to rise and approach the counter. Falco and
I occupied the interval vacated by Clemens and Vedia. Agathemer, of all men on earth, asked
what he could do for us. Falco stood there a long time, saw a goodly fraction of the finest
jewels in Orontides' possession and, manifestly, made as favorable impression of connoisseurship
on Agathemer as Agathemer made on him. They eyed each other as fellow-adepts. Falco asked that
he reserve an antique Babylonian seal cut in sardonyx and promised to send a messenger with
its price before dark. Agathemer, who was passing under the name of Eucleides, blandly replied
that Orontides would prefer to send the seal to Falco's residence. Falco agreed, of course,
and to my unutterable relief we finally departed.

Agathemer--Eucleides--brought the seal; and timed his arrival neatly as Falco returned from
the Baths of Titus just before dinner time. He was giving a big formal dinner and my dinner
was to be served in my apartment, which had a tiny triclinium; being as lavishly appointed,
and one in which I was as luxuriously lodged and served, as those I had had in Carthage and Utica.

I asked Agathemer if he could stay and dine with me and he accepted. We had a wonderful dinner.
The food, of course, was unsurpassable and our appetites keyed up by our mutual emotions. When
the dessert and wine were brought in I dismissed the waiters, made sure that no man or boy
of my retinue was in my apartment and bolted its door.

Then we fell into each other's arms.

After we had expressed our mutual affection I told him my story from the morning after the
massacre and he told me his, which was commonplace.

He had easily escaped from the slave-convoy between Narnia and Interamnia, had made his way
to Ameria and found shelter there with slaves as an ordinary runaway slave. After a discreet
interval he had travelled to Rome. There he had found old acquaintances to protect and shield
him. I was presumed to be dead and any fellow-slave would help him in his situation, he being
presumed to be legally a slave of the fiscus. He had no difficulty in disposing of a gem out
of his amulet-bag and then rented lodgings, passed as a freedman, by the name of Eucleides,
and gradually made himself known to various gem-experts who gave him as much protection as
had his fellow-slaves, his former acquaintances. Orontides perfectly knew who he was, yet engaged
him as an assistant by the name of Eucleides and as being a freedman. Ever since then he had
lived safe in his lodgings, and spent his days at Orontides' shop or about Rome at gem- dealers.
He declared that he was, if possible, more of a gem-expert than before our adventures began,
which was saying a great deal.

He laughed heartily and often at my disguise, acclaimed it a work of art in every detail and
in its total effect and vowed that he believed that I could spend years in Rome in Falco's
retinue and encounter all my old acquaintances and be in little danger from any and in no danger
except from such professional physiognomists as Galen and Gratillus.

I told him of what Galen had said to Tanno. Agathemer said he had had only two interviews with
Tanno, at which they had deplored my death, I having been believed to have perished with Nonius
Libo. They had also agreed to avoid each other, for fear of attracting the notice of some secret-service
agent or volunteer spy. Tanno had not mentioned Galen.

We agreed that we, also, must avoid each other and not meet oftener than say four times a year,
for fear of leading to my detection.

He told me of Marcia's unlimited power over Commodus, the whole Palace and the entire social
and governmental world of Rome. He also said that he was convinced that Ducconius Furfur was
domiciled in the Palace and that Commodus used him as dummy ceremonial Emperor, when he himself
was masquerading as Palus, the Gladiator, for he was now developing for public exhibitions
of his swordsmanship a mania as insensate as those he had had for charioteering and beast-fighting.

Next day, naturally, I had a visit from Tanno, who even sacrificed his afternoon bath and came
to see me while Falco was at the Baths of Titus.

He embraced me heartily, when we were alone, and talked with his habitual mask of jocularity.

"Three times dead, Caius," he said, "and still alive and fit. Dying seems to agree with you,
whether it is military execution, rural assassination, or drowning at sea. I am still incredulous
that you are really alive; we had the most circumstantial accounts of the loss of poor Libo's
yacht with all on board."

"That is odd," I said, "Rufius Libo survived and succeeded to his uncle's property."

"I knew he inherited all Nonius left," Tanno stated, "but I had no idea that Nonius had Rufius
with him here in Rome and that he was on the yacht; I thought he was in Carthage all the while.
Certainly every account we had specified that no one was rescued from that yacht."

I told him that Rufius had promised me to write him of my survival and that I had despatched
at least a score of letters to him and as many to Vedia. He was as puzzled as I that not one
had reached either of them.

I gave him an account of my life since he had seen me and he approved of my disguise as much
as had Agathemer and laughed at it even more heartily.

He said:

"Poor Flavius Clemens is in a daze. He cannot conjecture what has gone wrong with his wooing
again a second time. He behaved very tactfully after his first rebuff ensuing on Galen's tip
to me and mine to Vedia. He was so cautious about not thrusting himself on Vedia that their
acquaintance, quite naturally, warmed again gradually into mutual interest and romantic affection
and was ripening into love when the sight of you yesterday annihilated his excellent chances
of marrying her. He was just about to buy for her a two-million-sesterce pearl necklace. If
she had accepted the gift it would have been tantamount to a public pledge to marry him. Poor
fellow!"

When he left he gave me a letter from Vedia, a letter as loving as a lover could wish for.
She declared that she would not marry Flavius Clemens nor anybody except me and would wait
for me as long as might be necessary or stay unmarried until the end of her days, if, by any
misfortune, the end came to her before she and I were free to marry.

She said that we must avoid each other as much as possible and that I must not spoil my chances
of safety either by relying too recklessly on my disguise or through risking arousing suspicion
in Falco by any attempt at confining myself to my apartment, which would have been altogether
incongruous with the character I had assumed.

The rest of that year and all the winter I passed living the normal life of an indulged and
pampered favorite of an opulent bachelor dilettante noble. It was a life almost as enjoyable
as the life of a wealthy nobleman to which I had been born and brought up.

I had but one anxiety and that was not small and it steadily increased. It was caused by a
progressive alteration and deterioration in the character of my master. In all other respects
he remained the man he had been when he first bought me, but as a gem-fancier his hobby became
a passion which deepened into a mania and colored, or discolored, all he did. He had, as he
always had had, a very large surplus of income over and above what was needful to maintain
his huge estates in Africa, his many luxurious villas and town-palaces there, his yacht and
his palaces in Italy at Baiae and at Rome. The normal accumulation of this surplus had taxed
his sagacity as an investor, for it was always harder for him to find advantageous investments
for his redundant cash than to find cash for tempting investments. Certainly his excess income
more than sufficed for any reasonable indulgence in gem-collecting.

Yet his outlay for rare gems ran up to and outran and far outran his resources. The strange
result was that he, who had huge revenues from estates and safe investments, desired a still
greater income. He began to embark in risky ventures which promised large and quick returns.
He went into partnership with two different nobles, who made a practice of bidding on the taxes
of frontier provinces exposed to enemy raids. Bidders were shy of investing their cash in the
problematical returns of such regions and those who had the hardihood to enter into contracts
with the government made huge profits if lucky. Falco was lucky each time. He plunged again
and again.

He also embarked similarly in bidding for unpromising contracts and in buying up estates thrown
unexpectedly on the market. All his ventures turned out successfully, he gained great resources
for indulging his fad for gems and rare curios, his collection grew and became one of the most
famous private collections in Rome.

Also his mania for speculation grew as fast as his mania for collecting gems.

This led to my exposure to the oddest and most alarming peril which I had run since Agathemer
and I crawled through the drain-pipe at Villa Andivia; greater I think, than the risk I ran
when I nearly encountered Gratillus at Placentia. This happened about eleven months after I
came to Rome with Falco, in the spring of the year when Pedo Apronianus and Valerius Bradua
were consuls.

This occurrence and the circumstances which led up to it I cannot forbear narrating, but I
shall not go into details, for it involves at least allusion to behavior not at all creditable
to my owner and I am unwilling to disparage or seem to disparage one who was to me a dear friend
and a generous benefactor. The truth is that his passion for gem-collecting had not only undermined
his character but had, in a way, sapped the foundations of his native uprightness. If he had
remained the man he was when he bought me he would not have been capable of entertaining, let
alone of acting on, the considerations which actuated him.

He thought he saw a chance to make vast profits quickly with no risks. But to achieve this
he needed the presence and the countenance of another wealthy nobleman of the African province,
who, like him when he purchased me, had never been in Rome or, indeed, out of the colony. The
name of this man, whom I had met while in Thysdrus, was Salsonius Salinator. His wealth, inherited
by his father and grandfather from a long line of wealthy ancestors, came from many vast salt
works along the coast, which, by the custom of the province, remained private property and
merely paid the government a lease-tax or rent. The family had been, many generations before,
named from these works and was very proud of its names.

Now Falco had so far progressed with his negotiations that the other parties to the proposed
bargain were unwilling to close the deal and sign a contract with Falco and his associates
unless Salsonius Salinator, in person, appeared to make some necessary statements, and were
willing and eager to sign and seal, the projected agreement if he did appear in person and
did make those required statements. I am averse to smirching Falco's memory by going more minutely
into detail.

Now Salinator had written Falco that he was coming to Rome and later, when he received a letter
from Falco outlining the pending negotiations and their object, he had written promising to
be in Rome by a specified date. He was most enthusiastic as to Falco's project and thought
as well of it as did Falco. Falco told his associates of Salinator's letter and promise and
they adjusted their outstanding investments so as to be able to close the contract as soon
as Salinator appeared.

He did not appear on the date specified. Naturally Falco was perturbed, his associates vexed
and the men with whom they were dealing increasingly restive. They threatened to break off
the negotiations and close a contract with other bidders. Falco begged for an extension of
the time and they grudgingly granted it. Still no signs of or word from Salinator. The negotiations
appeared likely to fall through.

In his distress Falco conceived and set about putting into practice a scheme such as he would
never have thought of or entertained if he had been the man he was when he bought me. When
he was himself he had been the reverse of dishonorable. He came to me and said:

"We are at the end of our tether, Pullanius and his gang will break off negotiations tomorrow
if I can't get hold of Salinator. I have no hope of his arrival, he may have not yet sailed
from Carthage; he may have changed his mind about coming at all. I am not willing to lose so
brilliant a chance. I have thought of just what to do.

"You would look like a Roman if you had your beard trimmed and your hair cut and all that powder
and paint and rouge washed off your face: I took you for a full-blooded Roman when I first
set eyes on you. What is more you would look so utterly unlike what you look like in your fantastic
fripperies that no one would even suspect you of being the same man. Anyhow, Pullanius and
his crowd have never set eyes on you, not one of them.

"All you have to do is to have your beard cut to about the fashionable length and your hair
trimmed to conform similarly with current fashions for Roman noblemen and get into full-dress
shoes, a nobleman's tunic and toga, and you'll pass anywhere for a genuine, free-born, full-blooded
Roman.

"I'll take you to Pullanius tomorrow and introduce you as Salsonius Salinator. I'll coach you
carefully as to how to behave and what to say. You are clever enough to assume the natural
Roman demeanor to a nicety: also to rise to any unexpected situations and act and talk precisely
as would Salinator himself.

"It will be sharp practice, in a sense. But I know Salinator would say all I want him to say,
all Pullanius requires him to say, and more, if he were actually here. He is as keen on closing
this contract as I am. So I am not asking you to be a party to an actual fraud. You will only
be bringing about what would come about without you if something unforeseen had not prevented
Salinator from getting here in time."

Now I had often differed with Falco, argued with him, opposed him, refused requests of his,
and he had acquiesced and had acted as if I were not his property, but a free man and his complete
social equal. But this was a situation wholly different from any I had encountered before.
When it came to gem-collecting or to anything which gave him or would give him or was expected
to yield him surplus cash for buying more gems for his collection, Falco was a monomaniac.
I dared not refuse, or oppose him or argue or show any hesitation. A master can change in a
twinkling from an indulgent friend to an infuriated despot. In spite of the laws passed by
Hadrian and his successors limiting the authority of masters over their slaves and giving slaves
certain rights before magistrates, in practice an angry master can go to any length to coerce
a recalcitrant slave. I saw not only privations, discomforts, hunger, confinement and chains
threatening me, but scourging and torture.

I acquiesced.

Now I am not going into any details as to what I did and said to induce Pullanius and his associates
to execute the desired contract. I acted the part of Salinator to perfection and my imposture
succeeded completely.

But the negotiations dragged, for all that, and I had to impersonate Salsonius Salinator not
only before Pullanius and his partners but generally all over Rome: had to submit to being
shown the sights in my character of a provincial magnate in Rome for the first time; had to
allow myself to be dragged to morning receptions of senators and wealthy noblemen and introduced
to them; had to accept invitations to dinners given by noblemen and senators; even had to attend
a public morning reception in the Audience Hall of the Palace. That I escaped undetected was
more than miraculous; I could not believe it myself. But I did escape.

I escaped unsuspected the ordeal of being haled to a morning reception of Vedius Vedianus and
presented to him as Salsonius Salinator of Carthage, Nepte and Putea. I should have been lost
had he had at his elbow to jog his memory if he forgot a visitor's name the slave he had had
in that capacity seven years before, since that alert nomenclator would have recognized me
at once. But he had died of the plague and his successor had never set eyes on me. Vedius himself
would certainly have known me for my true self but for his inveterate selfishness, and self-absorption
and his incapacity for being diverted from whatever thought or idea happened to be uppermost
in his narrow mind. He was, for some reason, eager to be done with his reception and had no
eyes for any visitors except those from whom he expected immediate and positive advantage to
himself. I escaped, but I went out sweating and limp with excitement.

I was even more faint and weak after having to attend a Palace levee. Fortunately Commodus
had wearied of his father's methods of holding receptions and had reverted to the regulations
in vogue under Trajan and Hadrian, according to which only such senators as were summoned approached
the throne and were personally greeted by the Prince; the rest of the senators and all the
lesser noblemen merely passed before the Emperor as he stood in front of the throne, passing
four abreast along the main pavement at the foot of the steps of the dais and saluting him
as they passed. Amid this crush of mediocrities I passed unnoticed, unremarked, unscathed.

But I marvelled at my luck, for I knew many eyes of secret-service experts scanned that slow-moving
column of togaed noblemen and such adepts have a marvellous memory for the shape of an ear,
a nose, a chin, or any such feature. After my hair and beard had been trimmed to suit Falco's
notions and my face was innocent of powder, rouge and paint and I was habited in a tunic and
toga with stripes of the width belonging to Salinator's rank and dress-boots of the cut and
color proper for him I conned my reflection in the mirror in my dressing-room and was certain
that anyone who had known me as myself must recognize me at first glance.

My two worst ordeals came when I went out with Falco to my second and fourth formal dinner
in Rome in my character of provincial magnate. I went with him, altogether, to eight different
dinners at the houses of capitalists associated with or supposed to have influence with Pullanius.
Not once, in any of these eight perilous expeditions, did it occur to Falco to inform me beforehand
where I was to dine. And I thought it best not to ask him, since I reflected that his complete
ignorance of my past was an important factor in my chances of continued concealment and safety;
and since I felt that some word, tone or look of mine might put him on the road to suspecting
the truth about me. Therefore I set out to each of these eight dinners totally ignorant of
our destination.

The first time I knew I was to dine with Appellasius Clavviger, a Syrian capitalist who had
been in Rome not much longer than Falco himself. Judge of my feelings when, in the mellow light
which bathes Rome just after the sun has set from a clear sky and before day has begun to fade,
I perceived that my litter-bearers, following Falco's, were turning into the street where I
had lived before my ruin! Imagine my sensations when we halted before the palatial dwelling
which had been my uncle's abode and mine!  I was even more perturbed and overwhelmed by my
emotions when on entering behind Falco I found nothing changed, scarcely anything altered from
what had been there on the fatal morning on which, without any premonition of disaster, I had
set off to the Palace levee and had, on my way, been saved by Vedia's intervention and letter.
The appointments of the vestibule, of the porter's lodge, were as I had known them in my uncle's
lifetime. So were the furnishings of the atrium and tablinum. Scarcely a statue had been added
or so much as moved, most of the pictures being where my uncle had had them hung.  Appellasius,
a fat, jovial, jolly man, did not see my confusion. We were the last guests to arrive and he
was hungry. We passed at once into the triclinium. There also the wall-decorations were precisely
as I had last seen them; but the square table and three square sofas had vanished and, in their
place, was a new C-shaped sofa and a circular table covered with a magnificent embroidered
cloth.  In the course of the dinner, the company, as was natural with vulgarians newly enriched,
fell to talking of their residences, of their size, convenience, and cost. I took the opportunity
to compliment Appellasius on his abode and, as he warmed to the subject, I inquired whether
he had inherited it or bought it.

"Neither," said he. "I have merely leased it, and leased it furnished. It belongs to the fiscus;
it was confiscated some years ago when its owner was proscribed for joining in one of the conspiracies
against, the Emperor. It is a pearl. I am told that the father of its last owner was an art
connoisseur. Anyhow I could not improve on its decorations or furnishings. I have made few
changes, chiefly installing this up-to-date dining-outfit. The fittings of this room were all
of one hundred years old, very fine in material and ornamentation, but unbearably inconvenient."

I had learned all I hoped for or dared attempt, and for the rest of the entertainment I kept
to subjects as far as possible from anything likely to compromise me.

My second and far my severest ordeal was when a few evenings later I was dazed to realize that
my litter, behind Falco's, was halting before the well-known residence of that booby, Faltonius
Bambilio. But I was not afraid of him. I rated him such a dolt, such an ass, that even if he
exclaimed that I was the image of Andivius Hedulio I had no doubt I could convince him that
I was what I pretended to be and could even expunge from his mind any recollections of his
having noticed such a striking resemblance. In fact he did not make any remark on my appearance
or seem to have any inkling that he had ever seen me before, but accepted me as an interesting
stranger.

I dreaded what guests he might have and the actuality surpassed my capacities to forecast possibilities.

 I found the middle sofa at his table, for he adhered to the old-fashioned
furnishings for a triclinium, occupied by his wife, Nemestronia and
Vedia!  Vedia, after one tense moment of incredulous numb staring,
regained her composure.

Evidently she had not confided in anyone the fact of my survival and existence. For, if she
had, she would have taken dear old Nemestronia into her confidence, since she was as able to
keep a secret as any woman who ever lived and had loved me as if I had been her own and only
grandson. For Nemestronia manifestly had believed me dead. At sight of me she was as thunderstruck
as if she had seen an indubitable specter. She was smitten dumb and rigid and her discomposure
was remarked by all present. But she recovered herself in time, passed off her agitation as
having been due to one of her sudden attacks of pain in the chest. After that she did as much
as Vedia to dispel any tendency to suspicions which she might have aroused. She was plainly,
to my eyes, overjoyed at the sight of me in the flesh.

I have branded on my memory for life the picture I saw as I entered the triclinium. Its wall
decorations expressed old Bambilio's enthusiasm for Alexandrian art and literature. The ceiling
was adorned with a copy of Apellides' Dance of the Loves; and the walls were decorated with
copies of equally celebrated paintings by masters of similar fame. The wall niches were filled
with statues of the Alexandrian poets, the two opposite the entrance door with those of Euphorion
and Philetas, the brilliant hues of the paint on them depicting garments as gaudy as I myself
had been wearing a few days before. From the pink faces of the bedizened poets their jeweled
eyes sparkled as if they were chuckling at the situation. Under the mellow light shed by the
numerous hanging lamps, against the intricate particolored patterns of the wall between the
statue-niches, I saw the vacuous baby face of Asellia, Bambilio's pretty doll of a wife, between
Vedia's countenance cleverly assuming a normal social expression after her brief glare at me,
and Nemestronia's mask of horror, accentuated by the agony of the gripping spasm which throttled
her, for the pain in her chest was induced by anything which startled her, and was not assumed.

Once we were composed on the sofas the dinner passed off almost comfortably. For Nemestronia
played her part in my behalf fully as well as did Vedia, who conversed with me easily, her
demeanor precisely as if I had been Salsonius Salinator, a stranger whom she had just met,
our talk mostly about Carthage, salt-works, the lagoons of the edge of the desert, date palms,
local fruits, gazelles and such like topics, Nemestronia seconding her with questions about
temple libraries, the cult of Isis in Hippo, and such matters. I became almost gay, I was enjoying
myself.

The enjoyment, toward the close of the banquet, was marred by Bambilio, who, inevitably, had
told Falco of his capture by brigands on the Flaminian Highway and, after his tale was told
at great length, insisted on Vedia telling hers.

Worst of all, when she came to her night in her travelling carriage, alone (as of course all
supposed) and surrounded by escaped beasts, hyenas, leopards, panthers, tigers and lions, Bambilio
must needs remark:

"I'll wager you wished that the ghost of your old lover, Hedulio, had come to your assistance.
He could wrestle with leopards; perhaps even his ghost might be able to control wild beasts."

"Perhaps," Vedia rejoined, unruffled, "maybe he was there to help me and maybe that was why
I never felt really afraid that any beast would burst into my coach and seize me, though several
snuffed at its panels and I could see them plain in the clear moonlight. Perhaps, in spirit,
he was close to me to keep off the ravenous beasts and to strengthen my heart."

After she also had ended her story Bambilio eyed me:

"Did you ever hear a story excel hers and mine, Salsonius?" he queried.

"Never," I admitted, my gaze full on his.

The booby showed not a gleam of suspicion!

Inwardly I could not but remark that whereas I despised and loathed Bambilio for his pomposity
and self-esteem, he made and kept friends. Plainly both Nemestronia and Vedia liked him, esteemed
him and respected him.

After we left, I felt positively exhilarated at having had an evening in Vedia's company and
having talked with her. Her escort, fortunately for me, had not been Flavius Clemens but young
Duillius Silanus, son of the consul, who had never met me before.

CHAPTER XXXIV

PALUS THE INCOMPARABLE

Within a very few days after my encounter with Vedia at Bambilio's dinner Falco and I had just
ascended the stair of his residence after returning from a conference with Pullanius and his
partners at which both sides had finally agreed on terms to the last detail and the contracts
had been drawn up, executed, signed and sealed. He said:

"Phorbas, I am pleased with you. Such imposture as I have enticed you into cannot have been
palatable to a man of your character. You have manifestly disrelished it, but you have valiantly
stomached it for my sake. Actually you may be comforted, for it has not really been dishonest
or dishonorable; you have only acted and spoken vicariously for Salinator: to a certainty he
would have done and said just what you have, had he been present in person.

"You are a wonderful actor. No Greek or part Greek or half Greek or quarter Greek or thirty-second
Greek I ever knew or heard of, clever as Greeks are at histrionics, could so perfectly act
a Roman noble in every detail of demeanor, manner and word: down to the most trifling expression
of every prejudice inherent in a Roman born. I admire you. Also I thank you.

"And I am as relieved as you will be to be able to tell you that your masquerade is at an end,
successful and unsuspected.

"Now the important thing is for Salsonius Salinator to vanish from Rome at once.

"I suppose you have the wigs and false-beards you said you would buy or have made?"

"They are in my dressing-room," I replied.

"Then," he continued, "have yourself waked early, have your valet paint you and powder you
and rouge you and fit you out with a wig like the head of hair you had before I made you impersonate
Salinator, and with a false beard no one will suspect; have him rig you up in your favorite
attire and load you with jewelry, then set off in my travelling-carriage for Baiae. Be out
of Rome by sunrise. Travel straight to Baiae as rapidly as you find practicable without fatiguing
yourself. At Baiae you will have the Villa and servants all to yourself. Stay there until you
have grown your hair and beard as it was before your masquerade. Then return to Rome as Phorbas."

He paused, gazed at me and added:

"And I mean to make a new will. Besides leaving you your freedom and the legacy specified in
my last will I mean to leave you my gem-collection and a full fourth of all my other estate.
You deserve a lavish reward and I believe I love you better than any living human being."

I thanked him with my best imitation of the manner of a Greek, but with genuine feeling and
from a full heart.

Actually I was glad to get out of Rome, glad to linger at Baiae. I made my time as long as
I could and resisted several importunities from Falco before I finally returned to the city
more than a year after I had left it. Thus I was out of Rome during the great fire, which destroyed,
along with the Temple and Altar of Peace, the Temples of the Divine Julius and the Divine Augustus,
the Temple of Vesta, the Atrium of Vesta and most of the other buildings about the great Forum,
also the Porticus Margaritaria and the shop of Orontides. Strangely enough, when, at Baiae,
I read letters from Falco, Tanno and Agathemer describing the devastation, my mind dwelt more
on the annihilation of the shop where I had encountered Vedia than on the destruction of the
Palace records and most of the public records, or of the many revered temples which had vanished
in the flames.

When I returned to Rome the ruins were already largely cleared, and rebuilding, especially
of the Temple of Vesta, was vigorously under way.

In Falco's household and manner of life I found few changes, except that Falco, really in excellent
health, had become concerned about his trifling ailments, and, after trying one and another
physician, had enrolled himself among the patients of the most distinguished exponent of the
healing arts. Galen therefore, was a frequent visitor at my home and I saw him not infrequently.
When I had some minor discomfort, Falco, always pampering me, called Galen in and enrolled
me also among his charges.

