In the seventeenth century slavery made but little progress in these parts of America, and
during that whole period not more than twenty-five thousand slaves were brought to the colonies
to work in the tobacco and rice fields of the South or to serve as maids, butlers, and coachmen
in the North. The eighteenth century, however, saw a rapid increase in slavery, until the census
of 1790, much to the surprise of most observers, showed a slave population of 679,679 living
in every State and territory of the country except Massachusetts and Maine.

With the extensive development of various industries in the colonies, slavery soon left the
North and was used exclusively in the South. There are several reasons for this shift. In the
first place, the colonies of the North were settled by people from the lower and middle classes,
who had been accustomed to working for themselves and who thus had no use for slaves, while
the South was settled largely by adventurers, who had never worked and who looked upon labor
as dishonorable. In the second place, the North had a temperate climate in which any man could
safely work, while the heat of the South was so intense that a white man endangered his life
by working in it, whereas the Negro was protected by facility of acclimation. Another cause
was the difference in soil. The soil of the South was favorable to the growth of cotton, tobacco,
rice, and sugar, the cultivation of which crops required large forces of organized and concentrated
labor, which the slaves supplied. On the other hand, the soil of the North favored the raising
of cereals, which required neither organized nor concentrated labor; for one man working alone
was able to produce more than one man working in a group: and thus slave labor was of little
or no advantage to the North. Then, too, its soil, lacking the fertility of that of the South,
required considerable fertilizing, which slave labor did not have the intelligence to learn.
Thus in 1750 the slaves included three per cent of the population of the New England colonies,
nine per cent of the middle colonies, and twenty-five per cent of those south of the Potomac
River.[1] By the end of the eighteenth century every State north of Maryland, with the exception
of New Jersey, had provided for the immediate or gradual abolition of slavery, while the rise
of the cotton industry, quickened by the invention of the cotton gin in 1793, had bound the
institution on the South.

In order to understand the institutions of the South, it is first necessary to know something
about the dominating class of people. The planters, numbering in 1860 about 384,750 and owning
2,308,518 slaves,[2] were first in the social scale and controlled affairs. "They included
an aristocracy or gentry reflecting distinctions of colonial government, and expanding under
influences that prevented an amalgamation of widely separated elements."[3]

The home of the planter was usually a large country house of ten or twelve rooms, situated
on an elevation, or river bluff. The house was surrounded by a large porch, almost as tall
as the house itself, the roofs of which were supported by rows of large white columns. Inside
the house there was a large hall, with a wide stairway leading to another hall on the second
floor. Opening from the hall on the first floor were the parlors, library and dining room,
and, on the second floor, the living rooms of the family. The ceilings were high, and the windows
tall and wide. The carpets were very plain, but very heavy, while on the walls were portraits
of ancestors, of Washington, or of Calhoun. The house was surrounded by beautiful lawns with
tall spreading trees and sometimes marble statues.[4] The home of the planter was indeed picturesque.

The typical planter's family was composed of about twelve sons and daughters, a "tall, lank,
and rather weatherworn gentleman, and a slender, soft-voiced, weary-looking mother, unless
one counts the inevitable guest or the old-maiden cousin, who, like the furniture or the servants,
always formed part of a planter's household."[5] The planter, the master of the plantation,
was usually well educated, honorable, and generous. His chief work was managing the plantation.
He planned, ordered, and saw to the performance of the work. He also spent much time engaging
in politics, caring more for the honor of the public station than for the remuneration, and
often went on sporting trips, being used to out-of-door life from boyhood. "The high sense
of personal worth, the habit of command, the tyranny engendered by the submission of the prostrate
race, made the Southern gentleman jealous in honor, sudden and quick in quarrel,"[6] and, as
a result, the duel was very common. Men went about fully armed and used their pistols with
slight provocation. They were used to exercising absolute power over their dependents and became
furious at opposition; thus a quarrel between one lord and another was, during the earlier
period, usually settled by the pistol.

The mistress, usually mother of a large family of her own and over-mother of the pickaninnies,
was the "chatelaine of the whole establishment." She supervised the domestic duties, superintended
the household industries, was head nurse for the sick, and instructor in religion and morals
for the family and for the slaves. She was highly honored and respected by the men, who showed
her much consideration. "No patience was had with plans to bring women into competition with
the men in the public life; but a generalization of the Pauline advice to the Corinthian church
did not hinder the mother from exercising a gentle but firm sway over her husband and sons,
while she set the example of virtue and modesty for her daughters."[7]

One of the chief characteristics of the Southern people was their hospitality, which was increased
by the fact that they had few opportunities to extend it. Any traveler was welcome to eat at
their tables, which were always loaded with meats, breads, seasonal vegetables, relishes, pickles,
preserves, jellies, and cakes. He was willingly entertained until he again took up his journey.
The general effect of the hospitality upon the status of the Southern society was similar to
that of "some rosy afterglow upon a landscape, enhancing the charm of many features, and making
attractive others that under a cold white light might mar the whole."[8]

Another prominent feature of the planters was their remarkable progress. Between 1859 and 1860
they had eleven thousand sons and daughters in Southern colleges, while the enrollment of New
England colleges was only four thousand. The income of the higher institutions in the South
was $700,000, while that of New England was $268,000. They also boasted of many prominent scholars,
such as Francis Lieber, who was a professor at the University of South Carolina; Mr. Le Conte
and Joseph Senat, who were great geologists and who were also professors at the University
of South Carolina; Messrs. Ruffner, Wiley, Yansey, and Manly, prominent Southern educators;
and many notable statesmen who went forth from the Southern universities. Does it not seem
natural, then, that the Southern planters, who were so charming and so progressive, should
dominate the political and social life of the South?

