Vol. XVII, No. 102.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

  ILLUSTRATIONS.

  THE CENTURY--ITS FRUITS AND ITS FESTIVAL.
    VI.--THE DISPLAY--INTRODUCTORY. [Illustrated]

  DOLORES by EMMA LAZARUS.

  GLIMPSES OF CONSTANTINOPLE by SHEILA HALE.
    CONCLUDING PAPER. [Illustrated]

  THEE AND YOU by EDWARD KEARSLEY.
    A STORY OF OLD PHILADELPHIA.  IN TWO PARTS.--I.

  MODERN HUGUENOTS by JAMES M. BRUCE.

  BLOOMING by MAURICE THOMPSON.

  FELIPA by CONSTANCE FENIMORE WOOLSON.

  AT CHICKAMAUGA by ROBERT LEWIS KIMBERLY.

  THE ATONEMENT OF LEAM DUNDAS by MRS. E. LYNN LINTON.
    CHAPTER XXXVII. UNWORTHY.
    CHAPTER XXXVIII. BLOTTED OUT.
    CHAPTER XXXIX. WINDY BROW.
    CHAPTER XL. LOST AND NOW FOUND.

  THE ITALIAN MEDIÆVAL WOOD-SCULPTORS by T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE.

  REST by CHARLOTTE F. BATES.

  LETTERS FROM SOUTH AFRICA by LADY BARKER.

  OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.
    THE CABS OF PARIS by L.H.H.
    A NEW MUSEUM AT ROME by T.A.T.
    OUR FOREIGN SURNAMES by W.W.C.
    THE NEW FRENCH ACADEMICIAN by R.W.

  LITERATURE OF THE DAY.
    Books Received.

ILLUSTRATIONS

  FAÇADE OF THE SPANISH DIVISION, MAIN BUILDING.
  FAÇADE OF THE EGYPTIAN DIVISION, MAIN BUILDING.
  FAÇADE OF THE SWEDISH DIVISION, MAIN BUILDING.
  FAÇADE OF THE BRAZILIAN DIVISION, MAIN BUILDING.
  DOM PEDRO, EMPEROR OF BRAZIL.
  JAPANESE CARPENTERS.
  FAÇADE OF THE DIVISION OF THE NETHERLANDS, MAIN BUILDING.
  THE CORLISS ENGINE, FURNISHING MOTIVE-POWER FOR MACHINERY HALL.
  INTERIOR OF COOK'S WORLD'S TICKET-OFFICE.
  FRENCH RESTAURANT LA FAYETTE.
  THE MAMMOTH RODMAN GUN.
  SCENE AT ONE OF THE ENTRANCES TO THE GROUNDS--THE TURNSTILE.
  SCENE IN A BURIAL-GROUND.
  THE SULTAN ABDUL-ASSIZ.
  TURKISH COW-CARRIAGE.
  ENTERING A MOSQUE.
  CASTLE OF EUROPE, ON THE BOSPHORUS.
  FORTRESS OF RIVA, AND THE BLACK SEA.
  TURKISH QUARTER--STAMBOUL.
  OBELISK OF THEODOSIUS.
  SHEPHERDS.

LIPPINCOTT'S MAGAZINE

OF

POPULAR LITERATURE AND SCIENCE.

June, 1876.

THE CENTURY--ITS FRUITS AND ITS FESTIVAL.

VI. THE DISPLAY--INTRODUCTORY.

All things being ready for their reception, how were exhibits, exhibitors and visitors to be
brought to the grounds? To do this with the extreme of rapidity and cheapness was essential
to a full and satisfactory attendance of both objects and persons. In a large majority of cases
the first consideration with the possessor of any article deemed worthy of submission to the
public eye was the cost and security of transportation. Objects of art, the most valuable and
the most attractive portion of the display, are not usually very well adapted to carriage over
great distances with frequent transshipments. Porcelain, glass and statuary are fragile, and
paintings liable to injury from dampness and rough handling; while an antique mosaic, like
the "Carthaginian Lion," a hundred square feet in superficies, might, after resuscitation from
its subterranean sleep of twenty centuries with its minutest tessera intact and every tint
as fresh as the Phoenician artist left it, suffer irreparable damage from a moment's carelessness
on the voyage to its temporary home in the New World. More solid things of a very different
character, and far less valuable pecuniarily, though it may be quite as interesting to the
promoter of human progress, exact more or less time and attention to collect and prepare, and
that will not be bestowed upon them without some guarantee of their being safely and inexpensively
transmitted. So to simplify transportation as practically to place the exposition buildings
as nearly as possible at the door of each exhibitor, student and sight-seer became, therefore,
a controlling problem.

In the solution of it there is no exaggeration in saying that the Centennial stands more than
a quarter of a century in advance of even the latest of its fellow expositions. At Vienna a
river with a few small steamers below and a tow-path above represented water-carriage. Good
railways came in from every quarter of the compass, but none of them brought the locomotive
to the neighborhood of the grounds. In the matter of tram-roads for passengers the Viennese
distinguished themselves over the Londoners and Parisians by the possession of one. In steam-roads
they had no advantage and no inferiority. At each and all of these cities the packing-box and
the passenger were both confronted by the vexatious interval between the station and the exposition
building--often the most trying part of the trip. Horsepower was the one time-honored resource,
in '73 as in '51, and in unnumbered years before. Under the ancient divisions of horse and
foot the world and its impedimenta moved upon Hyde Park, the Champ de Mars and the Prater,
the umbrella and the oil-cloth tilt their only shield against Jupiter Pluvius, who seemed to
take especial pleasure in demonstrating their failure, nineteen centuries after the contemptuous
erasure of him from the calendar, to escape his power. It was reserved for the Philadelphia
Commission to bring his reign (not the slightest intention of a pun) to a close. The most delicate
silk or gem, and the most delicate wearer of the same, were enabled to pass under roof from
San Francisco into the Main Building in Fairmount Park, and with a trifling break of twenty
steps at the wharf might do so from the dock at Bremen, Havre or Liverpool. The hospitable
shelter of the great pavilion was thus extended over the continent and either ocean. The drip
of its eaves pattered into China, the Cape of Good Hope, Germany and Australia. Their spread
became almost that of the welkin.

Let us look somewhat more into the detail of this unique feature of the American fair.

Within the limits of the United States the transportation question soon solved itself. Five-sixths
of the seventy-four thousand miles of railway which lead, without interruption of track, to
Fairmount Park are of either one and the same gauge, or so near it as to permit the use everywhere
of the same car, its wheels a little broader than common. From the other sixth the bodies of
the wagons, with their contents, are transferable by a change of trucks. The expected sixty
or eighty thousand tons of building material and articles for display could thus be brought
to their destination in a far shorter period than that actually allowed. Liberal arrangements
were conceded by the various lines in regard to charges. Toll was exacted in one direction
only, unsold articles to be returned to the shipper free. As the time for closing to exhibitors
and opening to visitors approached the Centennial cars became more and more familiar to the
rural watcher of the passing train. They aided to infect him, if free from it before, with
the Centennial craze. Their doors, though sealed, were eloquent, for they bore in great black
letters on staring white muslin the shibboleth of the day, "1776--International Exhibition--1876."
The enthusiasm of those very hard and unimpressible entities, the railroad companies, thus
manifesting itself in low rates and gratuitous advertising, could not fail to be contagious.
Nor was the service done by the interior lines wholly domestic. Several large foreign contributions
from the Pacific traversed the continent. The houses and the handicraft of the Mongol climbed
the Sierra Nevada on the magnificent highway his patient labor had so large a share in constructing.
Nineteen cars were freighted with the rough and unpromising chrysalis that developed into the
neat and elaborate cottage of Japan, and others brought the Chinese display. Polynesia and
Australia adopted the same route in part. The canal modestly assisted the rail, lines of inland
navigation conducting to the grounds barges of three times the tonnage of the average sea-going
craft of the Revolutionary era. These sluggish and smooth-going vehicles were employed for
the carriage of some of the large plants and trees which enrich the horticultural department,
eight boats being required to transport from New York a thousand specimens of the Cuban flora
sent by a single exhibitor, M. Lachaume of Havana. Those moisture-loving shrubs, the brilliant
rhododendra collected by English nurserymen from our own Alleghanies and returned to us wonderfully
improved by civilization, might have been expected also to affect the canal, but they chose,
with British taste, the more rapid rail. They had, in fact, no time to lose, for their blooming
season was close at hand, and their roots must needs hasten to test the juices of American
soil. Japan's miniature garden of miniature plants, interesting far beyond the proportions
of its dimensions, was perforce dependent on the same means of conveyance.

The locomotive was summoned to the aid of foreign exhibitors on the Atlantic as on the Pacific
side, though to a less striking extent, the largest steamships being able to lie within three
miles of the exposition buildings. It stood ready on the wharves of the Delaware to welcome
these stately guests from afar, indifferent whether they came in squadrons or alone. It received
on one day, in this vestibule of the exposition, the Labrador from France and the Donati from
Brazil. Dom Pedro's coffee, sugar and tobacco and the marbles and canvases of the Société des
Beaux-Arts were whisked off in amicable companionship to their final destination. The solidarity
of the nations is in some sort promoted by this shaking down together of their goods and chattels.
It gives a truly international look to the exposition to see one of Vernet's battle-pieces
or Meissonier's microscopic gems of color jostled by a package of hides from the Parana or
a bale of India-rubber.

Yet more expressive was the medley upon the covered platforms for the reception of freight.
Eleven of these, each one hundred and sixty by twenty-four feet, admitted of the unloading
of fifty-five freight-cars at once. At this rate there was not left the least room for anxiety
as to the ability of the Commission and its employés to dispose, so far as their responsibility
was concerned, of everything presented for exhibition within a very few days. The movements
of the custom-house officials, and the arrangements of goods after the passing of that ordeal,
were less rapid, and there seemed some ground for anxiety when it was found that in the last
days of March scarce a tenth of the catalogued exhibits were on the ground, and for the closing
ten days of the period fixed for the receipt of goods an average of one car-load per minute
of the working hours was the calculated draft on the resources of the unloading sheds. Home
exhibitors, by reason of the very completeness of their facilities of transport, were the most
dilatory. The United States held back until her guests were served, confident in the abundant
efficiency of the preparations made for bringing the entertainers to their side. Better thus
than that foreigners should have been behind time.

When the gates of the enclosure were at last shut upon the steam-horse, a broader and more
congenial field of duty opened before him. From the rôle of dray-horse he passed to that of
courser. Marvels from the ends of the earth he had, with many a pant and heave, forward pull
and backward push, brought together and dumped in their allotted places. Now it became his
task to bear the fiery cross over hill and dale and gather the clans, men, women and children.
The London exhibition of 1851 had 6,170,000 visitors, and that of 1862 had 6,211,103. Paris
in 1855 had 4,533,464, and in 1867, 10,200,000. Vienna's exhibition drew 7,254,867. The attendance
at London on either occasion was barely double the number of her population. So it was with
Paris at her first display, though she did much better subsequently. Vienna's was the greatest
success of all, according to this test. The least of all, if we may take it into the list,
was that of New York in 1853. Her people numbered about the same with the visitors to her Crystal
Palace--600,000. Philadelphia's calculations went far beyond any of these figures, and she
laid her plans accordingly.

Some trainbands from Northern and Southern cities might give their patriotic furor the bizarre
form of a march across country, but the millions, if they came at all, must come by rail, and
the problem was to multiply the facilities far beyond any previous experience, while reconciling
the maximum of safety, comfort and speed with a reduction of fares. The arrangements are still
to be tested, and are no doubt open to modification. On one point, however, and this an essential
one, we apprehend no grounds of complaint. There will be no crowding. The train is practically
endless, the word terminus being a misnomer for the circular system of tracks to which the
station (six hundred and fifty by one hundred feet) at the main entrance of the grounds forms
a tangent. The line of tourists is reeled off like their thread in the hands of Clotho, the
iron shears that snip it at stated intervals being represented by the unmythical steam-engine.
The same modern minister of the Fates has another shrine not far from the dome of Memorial
Hall, where his acolytes are the officials of the Reading Railroad Company.

Care for the visitor's comfortable locomotion does not end with depositing him under the reception-verandah.
The Commission did not forget that a pedestrian excursion over fifteen or twenty miles of aisles
might sufficiently fatigue him without the additional trudge from hall to hall over a surface
of four hundred acres under a sun which the century has certainly not deprived of any mentionable
portion of its heat. Hence, the belt railway, three and a half miles long, with trains running
by incessant schedule--a boon only to be justly appreciated by those who attended the European
expositions or any one of them. His umbrella and goloshes pocketed in the form of a D.P.C.
check, the visitor, more fortunate than Brummel or Bonaparte, cannot be stopped by the elements.

We shall have amply disposed of the subject of transportation when we add that the neighborhood
or city supply to the thirteen entrance-gates is provided for by steam-roads capable of carrying
twenty-four thousand persons hourly, and tram-roads seating seven thousand, besides an irregular
militia or voltigeur force of light wagons, small steamers and omnibuses equal to a demand
of two or three thousand more in the same time. It was not deemed likely that Philadelphia
would require conveyance for half of her population every day. Should that supposition prove
erroneous, the excess can fall back upon the safe and inexpensive vehicle of 1776, 1851, 1867
and 1873--sole leather.

