When a child is taken ill, be the disease from which it is about to suffer what it may, there
is at once a change from its condition when in health, such as soon attracts the attention
even of the least observant. The child loses its appetite, is fretful and soon tired, and either
very sleepy or very restless, while most likely it is thirsty, and its skin hotter than natural.
In many instances, too, it feels sick or actually vomits, while its bowels are either much
purged or very bound. If old enough to talk, it generally complains of feeling ill, or says
that it has pain in some part or other, though it is by no means certain that a little child
has described rightly the seat of its pain; for it very often says that its head aches or that
its stomach aches, just because it has heard people when ill complain of pain in the head or
in the stomach. Some of these signs of illness are, of course, absent in the infant, who can
describe its feelings even by signs imperfectly; but the baby loses its merry laugh and its
cheerful look; it ceases to watch its mother's or its nurse's eye as it was used to do, though
it clings to her more closely than ever, and will not be out of her arms even for a moment;
and if at length rocked to sleep in her lap, will yet wake up and cry immediately on being
placed in its cot again.

Symptoms such as these are sure to awaken the mother's attention to her child, and the child's
welfare and the parent's happiness alike depend, in many instances, on the way in which she
sets about to answer the question, 'What is the matter?'

Some mothers send at once to the doctor whenever they see or fancy that anything ails their
child. But this way of getting rid of responsibility is not always possible, nor, indeed, on
moral grounds, is it always desirable, for the mother who delegates each unpleasant duty to
another, whether nurse, governess, or doctor, in order to save herself trouble or anxiety,
performs but half a mother's part, and can expect but half a mother's recompense of love.

Whenever a child is unwell, a mother may do much to ascertain what is the matter, and may by
the exercise of a little patience and common sense save herself much needless heart-ache, and
her child much suffering.

The first point to ascertain is the presence or absence of fever; that is to say, whether,
and how much, the temperature of the body is higher than natural. If the temperature is not
higher than natural, it may be taken as almost certain that the child neither has any inflammatory
affection of the chest, nor is about to suffer from any of the eruptive fevers. The temperature,
however, cannot be judged of merely by the sensation conveyed to the hand, but must be ascertained
by means of the thermometer.[4] In the case of the grown person the thermometer is placed either
under the tongue, the lips being closed over it, or in the armpit, and is kept there five or
six minutes. In young children, however, neither of these is practicable, and I prefer to place
the instrument in the groin, and crossing one leg over the other, to maintain the thermometer
there for the requisite five minutes. The temperature of the body in health is about 98.5°
Fahr. in the grown person, and very slightly higher in childhood; but any heat above 99.5°
may be regarded as evidence that something is wrong, and the persistence for more than twenty-four
hours of a temperature of 101° and upwards, may be taken as almost conclusive proof of the
existence of some serious inflammation, or of the onset of one of the eruptive fevers.

At the same time it is well to bear in mind that temporary causes, such as especially the disorders
produced by over-fatigue, or by an over-hearty or indigestible meal, may suddenly raise the
temperature as high as 102°, or higher, but the needed repose or the action of a purgative
may be followed in a few hours by an almost equally sudden decline of the heat to the natural
standard.

It is well to learn to count the pulse and the frequency of the breathing; but to do the former
accurately, requires practice such as is hardly gained except by hospital training; and indeed,
with few exceptions, the value of the information furnished by the pulse is less in the child
than in the adult. The reasons for this are obvious, since the rapidity of the circulation
varies under the slightest causes, and the very constraint of holding the sick child's hand
makes it struggle, and its efforts raise the frequency of the heart-beats by ten or twenty
in the minute. The place at which to seek the beat of the pulse is at the wrist, just inside
and below the protuberance of the wrist-bone; but if the child is very fat it is often difficult
to detect it. When detected it is not easy to count it in early infancy, for during the first
year of life the heart beats between 120 and 130 in the minute, diminishing between that age
and five years to 100, and gradually sinking to 90 at twelve years old. In proportion, moreover,
to the tender age of the child, is the rapidity of its circulation apt to vary under the influence
of slight causes, while both its frequency and that of the breathing are about a third less
during sleep than in the waking state.

The frequency of the breathing is less difficult to ascertain, while at the same time it furnishes
more reliable information than the pulse. This is best tested when the child is asleep, remembering
always that the breathing is then slower than in the waking state. The open hand, well warmed,
should be laid flat and gently over the child's night-dress on the lower part of the chest
and the pit of the stomach. Each heaving of the chest, which marks a fresh breath being taken,
may be counted, and the information thus obtained is very valuable. Up to the age of two years
the child breathes from 30 to 40 times in a minute, and this frequency gradually declines to
from 25 to 30 till the age of twelve, and then settles down to from 20 to 25 as in the grown
person. You would thus know that a sleeping infant who was breathing more than 30 times, or
a child of five who breathes more than 25 times, has some ailment in its chest, and that the
doctor should be sent for in order to ascertain its exact nature.

It would answer no good purpose to give a description of the information to be obtained by
listening to the chest. To learn from this, needs the well-trained ear; and harm, not good,
comes from the half-knowledge which serves but to lead astray.

A child may be very suffering, seem very ill, and its suffering and illness may depend on pain
in the stomach owing to indigestion, constipation, or even to an accidental chill. After early
infancy it is not difficult to make out the seat of the child's suffering: the warm hand placed
gently on its stomach will soon ascertain whether it is tense or tender, whether the tenderness
is confined to one particular spot, or whether it is more acute at one spot than at another;
and, lastly, whether, as is the case when pain is produced by wind in the intestines, the pain
and tenderness are both relieved by gentle rubbing.

