In one of the very earliest of his writings upon the subject, some comments upon the philosophy
of Ludwig Feuerbach, and intended to form the basis of a separate work, we find Marx insisting
that man is not a mere automaton, driven irresistibly by blind economic forces. He says: "The
materialistic doctrine, that men are the products of conditions and education, different men,
therefore, the products of other conditions and changed education, forgets that circumstances
may be altered by men, and that the educator has himself to be educated."[77] Thus early we
see the master taking a position entirely at variance with those of his disciples who would
claim that the human factor has no influence upon historical development, that man is without
power over his own destiny. From that position Marx never departed. Both he and Engels recognized
the human character of the problem, and the futility of attempting to reduce all the processes
of history and human progress to one sole basic cause. And in no case, so far as I am aware,
has either of them attempted to do this.

In another place, Marx contends that "men make their own history, but they make it not of their
own accord or under self-chosen conditions, but under given and transmitted conditions. The
tradition of all dead generations weighs like a mountain upon the brain of the living."[78]
Here, again, the influence of the human will is not denied, though its limitations are indicated.
This is the application to social man of the theory of limitations of the will commonly accepted
as applying to individuals. Man is only a freewill agent within certain sharp and relatively
narrow bounds. In a given contingency, I may be "free" to act in a certain manner, or to refrain
from so acting. I may take my choice, in the one direction or the other, entirely free, to
all appearances, from restraining or compelling influences. Thus, I have acted upon my "will."
But what factors formed my will? What circumstances determined my decision? Perhaps fear, or
shame, or pride; perhaps tendencies inherited from my ancestors.

Engels admits that the economic factor in evolution has sometimes been unduly emphasized. He
says: "Marx and I are partly responsible for the fact that the younger men have sometimes laid
more stress on the economic side than it deserves. In meeting the attacks of our opponents,
it was necessary for us to emphasize the dominant principle denied by them; and we did not
always have the time, place, or opportunity to let the other factors which were concerned in
the mutual action and reaction get their deserts."[79] In another letter,[80] he says: "According
to the materialistic view of history, the factor which is in last instance decisive in history
is the production and reproduction of actual life. More than this neither Marx nor I have ever
asserted. But when any one distorts this so as to read that the economic factor is the sole
element, he converts the statement into a meaningless, abstract, absurd phrase. The economic
condition is the basis; but the various elements of the superstructure,--the political forms
of the class contests, and their results, the constitutions,--the legal forms, and also all
the reflexes of these actual contests in the brains of the participants, the political, legal,
philosophical theories, the religious views ... all these exert an influence on the development
of the historical struggles, and, in many instances, determine their form."

It is evident, therefore, that the doctrine does not imply economic fatalism. It does not deny
that ideals may influence historical developments and individual conduct. While, as we shall
see in a later chapter, it is part of the doctrine that classes are formed upon a basis of
unity of material interests, it does not deny that men may, and often do, act in accordance
with the promptings of noble impulses and humanitarian ideals, when their material interests
would lead them to do otherwise. We have a conspicuous example of this in the life of Marx
himself; in his splendid devotion to the cause of the workers through years of terrible poverty
and hardship when he might have chosen wealth and fame. It is known, for example, that Bismarck
made the most extravagant offers to enlist the services of Marx, who declined them at the very
time when he was suffering awful privations. Marx himself has noted more than one instance
of individual idealism triumphing over material interests and class environment, and, by a
perversity that is astonishing, and not wholly disingenuous, some of his critics, notably Ludwig
Slonimski,[81] have used these instances as arguments against his theory, claiming that they
disprove it! We are to understand the materialistic theory, then, as teaching, not that history
is determined by economic forces only, but that in human evolution the chief factors are social
factors, and that these factors in turn are mainly molded by economic circumstances.[82]

This, then, is the basis of the Socialist philosophy, which Engels regarded as "destined to
do for history what Darwin's theory has done for biology." Marx himself made a similar comparison.[83]
Marx was, so Liebknecht tells us, one of the first to recognize the importance of Darwin's
investigations to sociology. His first important treatment of the materialistic theory, in
"A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy," appeared in 1859, the year in which
"The Origin of Species" appeared. "We spoke for months of nothing else but Darwin, and the
revolutionizing power of his scientific conquests,"[84] says Liebknecht. Darwin, however, had
little knowledge of political economy, as he acknowledged in a letter to Marx, thanking the
latter for a copy of "Das Kapital." "I heartily wish that I possessed a greater knowledge of
the deep and important subject of economic questions, which would make me a more worthy recipient
of your gift," he wrote.[85]

IV

The test of such a theory must lie in its application. Let us, then, apply the materialistic
principle, first to a specific event, and then to the great sweep of the historic drama. Perhaps
no single event has more profoundly impressed the imaginations of men, or filled a more important
place in our histories, than the discovery of America by Columbus. In the schoolbooks, this
great event figures as a splendid adventure, arising out of a romantic dream. But the facts
are, as we know, far otherwise.[86] In the twelfth and thirteenth centuries there were numerous
and well-frequented routes from Hindustan, that vast storehouse of treasure from which Europe
drew its riches. Along these routes cities flourished. There were the great ports, Licia in
the Levant, Trebizond on the Black Sea, and Alexandria. From these ports, Venetian and Genoese
traders bore the produce over the passes of the Alps to the Upper Danube and the Rhine. Here
it was a source of wealth to the cities along the waterways, from Ratisbon and Nuremburg, to
Bruges and Antwerp. Even the slightest acquaintance with the history of the Middle Ages must
suffice to give the student an idea of the importance of these cities.

When all these routes save the Egyptian were closed by the hordes of savages which infested
Central Asia, it became an easy matter for the Moors in Africa and the Turks in Europe to exact
immense revenues from the Eastern trade, solely through their monopoly of the route of transit.
Thus there developed an economic parasitism which crippled the trade with the East. The Turks
were securely seated at Constantinople, threatening to advance into the heart of Europe, and
building up an immense military system out of the taxes imposed upon the trade of Europe with
the East--a military power, which, in less than a quarter of a century, enabled Selim I to
conquer Mesopotamia and the holy towns of Arabia, and to annex Egypt.[87] It became necessary,
then, to find a new route to India; and it was this great economic necessity which set Columbus
thinking of a pathway to India over the Western Sea. It was this same great problem which engaged
the attention of all the navigators of the time; it was this economic necessity which induced
Ferdinand and Isabella to support the adventurous plan of Columbus. In a word, without detracting
in any manner from the splendid genius of Columbus, or from the romance of his great voyage
of discovery, we see that, fundamentally, it was the economic interest of Europe which gave
birth to the one and made the other possible. The same explanation applies to the voyage of
Vasco da Gama, six years later, which resulted in finding a way to India over the southeast
course by way of the Cape of Good Hope.

Kipling asks in his ballad, "The British Flag"--

     "And what should they know of England, who only England know?"

There is a profound truth in the defiant line, a truth which applies equally to America or
any other country. The present is inseparable from the past. We cannot understand one epoch
without reference to its predecessors; we cannot understand the history of the United States
unless we seek the key in the history of Europe--of England and France in particular. At the
very threshold, in order to understand how the heroic navigator came to discover the vast continent
of which the United States is part, we must pause to study the economic conditions of Europe
which impelled the adventurous voyage, and led to the discovery of a great continent stretching
across the ocean path. Such a view of history does not rob it of its romance, but rather adds
to it. Surely, the wonderful linking of circumstances--the demand for spices and silks to minister
to the fine tastes of aristocratic Europe, the growth of the trade with the East Indies, the
grasping greed of Moor and Turk--all playing a rôle in the great drama of which the discovery
of America is but a scene, is infinitely more fascinating than the latter event detached from
its historical setting!

It is not easy to give in the compass of a few pages an intelligent view of the main currents
of history. The sketch here introduced--not without hesitation--is an endeavor to state the
Socialist concept of the course of social evolution in a brief outline and to indicate the
principal economic causes which have operated to determine that course.

It is now generally admitted that primitive man lived under Communism. Lewis H. Morgan[88]
has calculated that if the life of the human race be assumed to have covered one hundred thousand
years, at least ninety-five thousand years were spent in a crude, tribal Communism, in which
private property was practically unknown, and in which the only ethic was devotion to tribal
interests, and the only crime antagonism to tribal interests. Under this social system the
means of making wealth were in the hands of the tribes, or gens, and distribution was likewise
socially arranged. Between the different tribes warfare was constant, but in the tribe itself
there was coöperation and not struggle. This fact is of tremendous importance in view of the
criticisms which have been directed against the Socialist philosophy from the so-called Darwinian
point of view, according to which competition and struggle is the law of life; that what Professor
Huxley calls "the Hobbesial war of each against all" is the normal state of existence.

This is described as "the so-called Darwinian" theory advisedly, for the struggle for existence
as the law of evolution has been exaggerated out of all likeness to the conception of Darwin
himself. In "The Descent of Man," for instance, Darwin raises the point under review, and shows
how, in many animal societies, the struggle for existence is replaced by coöperation for existence,
and how that substitution results in the development of faculties which secure to the species
the best conditions for survival. Thus the theory has been exaggerated into a mere caricature
of the truth. This is almost invariably the fate of theories which deal with human relations,
perhaps it would be equally true to say of all theories. The exaggerations of Malthus's law
of population is a case in point. The Marx-Engels theory of the materialistic conception of
history is, as we have seen, another.

Kropotkin, among others, has developed the theory along the lines suggested by Darwin. He points
out that "though there is an immense amount of warfare and extermination going on amidst various
classes of animals, there is, at the same time, as much, or perhaps even more, of mutual support,
mutual aid, mutual defense, amidst animals belonging to the same species or, at least, to the
same society. Sociability is as much a law of nature as mutual struggle.... If we resort to
an indirect test, and ask nature: 'Who are the fittest: those who are continually at war with
each other, or those who support one another?' we at once see that those animals which acquire
habits of mutual aid are undoubtedly the fittest. They have more chances to survive, and they
attain, in their respective classes, the highest development of intelligence and bodily organization.
If the numberless facts which can be brought forward to support this view are taken into account,
we may safely say that mutual aid is as much a law of animal life as mutual struggle, but that,
as a factor of evolution, it most probably has a far greater importance, inasmuch as it favors
the development of such habits and characters as insure the maintenance and further development
of the species, together with the greatest amount of welfare and enjoyment of life for the
individual, with the least waste of energy."[90]

From the lowest forms of animal life up to the highest, man, this law proves to be operative.
It is not denied that there is competition for food, for life, within the species, human and
other. But that competition is not usual; it arises out of unusual and special conditions.
There are instances of hunger-maddened mothers tearing away food from their children; men drifting
at sea have fought for water and food as beasts fight, but these are not normal conditions
of life. "Happily enough," says Kropotkin again, "competition is not the rule either in the
animal world or in mankind. It is limited among animals to exceptional periods.... Better conditions
are created by the elimination of competition by means of mutual aid and mutual support."[91]
This is the voice of science now that we have passed through the extremes and arrived at the
"beautiful goal of calm wisdom." Competition is not, in the verdict of modern science, the
law of life, but of death. Strife is not nature's way of progress.

Anything more important to our present inquiry than this verdict of science it would be difficult
to imagine. Men have for so long believed and declared struggle and competition to be the "law
of nature," and opposed Socialism on the ground of its supposed antagonism to that law, that
this new conception of nature's method comes as a vindication of the Socialist position. The
naturalist testifies to the universality of the principle of coöperation throughout the animal
world, and the historian and sociologist to its universality throughout the greatest part of
man's history. Present economic tendencies toward combination and away from competition, in
industry and commerce, appear as the fulfilling of a great universal law. And the vain efforts
of men to stop that process, by legislation, boycotts, and divers other methods, appear as
efforts to set aside immutable law. Like so many Canutes, they bid the tides halt, and, like
Canute's, their commands are vain and mocked by the unheeding tides.

Under Communism, then, man lived for many thousands of years. As far back as we can go into
the paleo-ethnology of mankind, we find evidences of this. All the great authorities, Morgan,
Maine, Lubbock, Taylor, Bachofen, and many others, agree in this. And under this Communism
all the great fundamental inventions were evolved, as Morgan and others have shown. The wheel,
the potter's wheel, the lever, the stencil plate, the sail, the rudder, the loom, were all
evolved under Communism in its various stages. So, too, the cultivation of cereals for food,
the smelting of metals, the domestication of animals,--to which we owe so much, and on which
we still so largely depend,--were all introduced under Communism. Even in our day there have
been found many survivals of this Communism among primitive peoples. Mention need only be made
here of the Bantu tribes of Africa, whose splendid organization astonished the British, and
the Eskimos. It is now possible to trace with a fair amount of certainty the progress of mankind
through various stages of Communism, from the unconscious Communism of the nomad to the consciously
organized and directed Communism of the most highly developed tribes, right up to the threshold
of civilization, when private property takes the place of common, tribal property, and economic
classes appear.[92]

V

Private property, other than that personal ownership and use of things, such as weapons and
tools, which involves no class or caste domination, and is an integral feature of all forms
of Communism, first appears in the ownership of man by man. Slavery, strange as it may seem,
is directly traceable to tribal Communism, and first appears as a tribal institution. When
one tribe made war upon another, its efforts were directed to the killing of as many of its
enemies as possible. Cannibal tribes killed their foes for food, rarely or never killing their
fellow-tribesmen for that purpose. Non-cannibalistic tribes killed their foes merely to get
rid of them. But when the power of mankind over the forces of external nature had reached that
point in its development where it became relatively easy for a man to produce more than was
necessary for his own maintenance, the custom arose of making captives of enemies and setting
them to work. A foe captured had thus an economic value to the tribe. Either he could be set
to work directly, his surplus product enriching the tribe, or he could be used to relieve some
of his captors from other necessary duties, thus enabling them to produce more than would otherwise
be possible, the effect being the same in the end. The property of the tribe at first, slaves
become at a later stage private property--probably through the institution of the tribal distribution
of wealth. Cruel, revolting, and vile as slavery appears to our modern sense,--especially the
earlier forms of slavery before the body of legislation, and, not less important, sentiment,
which surrounded it later arose,--it still was a step forward, a distinct advance upon the
older customs of cannibalism and wholesale slaughter.

Nor was it a progressive step only on the humanitarian side. It had other, profounder consequences
from the evolutionary point of view. It made a leisure class possible, and provided the only
conditions under which art, philosophy, and jurisprudence could be evolved. The secret of Aristotle's
saying, that only by the invention of machines would the abolition of slavery ever be made
possible, lies in his recognition of the fact that the labor of slaves alone made possible
the devotion of a class of men to the pursuit of knowledge instead of to the production of
the primal necessities of life. The Athens of Pericles, for example, with all its varied forms
of culture, its art and its philosophy, was a semi-communism of a caste above, resting upon
a basis of slave labor underneath. Similar conditions prevailed in all the so-called ancient
democracies of civilization.

The private ownership of wealth producers and their products made private exchange inevitable;
individual ownership of land took the place of communal ownership, and a monetary system was
invented. Here, then, in the private ownership of land and laborer, private production and
exchange, we have the economic factors which caused the great revolts of antiquity, and led
to that concentration of wealth into few hands, with its resulting mad luxury on the one hand
and widespread proletarian misery upon the other, which conspired to the overthrow of Greek
and Roman civilization. The study of those relentless economic forces which led to the break-up
of Roman civilization is important as showing how chattel slavery became modified and the slave
to be regarded as a serf, a servant bound to the soil. The lack of adequate production, the
crippling of commerce by hordes of corrupt officials, the overburdening of the agricultural
estates with slaves, so that agriculture became profitless, the crushing out of free labor
by slave labor, and the rise of a wretched class of freemen proletarians, these, and other
kindred causes, led to the breaking up of the great estates; the dismissal of superfluous slaves,
in many cases, and the partial enfranchisement of others by making them hereditary tenants,
paying a fixed share of their product as rent--here we have the embryonic stage of feudalism.
It was a revolution, this transformation of the social system of Rome, of infinitely greater
importance than the sporadic risings of a few thousand slaves. Yet, such is the lack of perspective
which the historians have shown, it is given a far less important place in the histories than
the risings in question. Slavery, chattel slavery, died because it had ceased to be profitable;
serf labor arose because it was more profitable. Slave labor was economically impossible, and
the labor of free men was morally impossible; it had, thanks to the slave system, come to be
regarded as a degradation. In the words of Engels, "This brought the Roman world into a blind
alley from which it could not escape.... There was no other help but a complete revolution."[93]

The invading barbarians made the revolution complete. By the poor freemen proletarians who
had been selling their children into slavery, the barbarians were welcomed. Misery, like opulence,
has no patriotism. Many of the proletarian freemen had fled to the districts of the barbarians,
and feared nothing so much as a return to Roman rule. What, then, should the proletariat care
for the overthrow of the Roman state by the barbarians? And how much less the slaves, whose
condition, generally speaking, could not possibly change for the worse? The free proletarian
and the slave could join in saying, as men have said thousands of times in circumstances of
desperation:--

     "Our fortunes may be better; they can be no worse."

VI

Feudalism is the essential politico-economic system of the Middle Ages. Obscure as its origin
is, and indefinite as the date of its first appearances, there can be no doubt whatever that
the break-up of the Roman system, and the modification of the existing form of slavery, constituted
the most important of its sources. Whether, as some writers have contended, the feudal system
of land tenure and serfdom is traceable to Asiatic origins, being adopted by the ruling class
of Rome in the days of the economic disintegration of the empire, or whether it rose spontaneously
out of the Roman conditions, matters little to us. Whatever its archæological interest, it
does not affect the narrower scope of our present inquiry whether economic necessity caused
the adoption of an alien system of land tenure and agricultural production, or whether economic
necessity caused the creation of a new system. The central fact is the same in either case.

That period of history which we call the Middle Ages covers a span of well-nigh a thousand
years. If we arbitrarily date its beginning from the successful invasion of Rome by the barbarians
in the early part of the fifth century, and its ending with the final development of the craft
guilds in the middle of the fourteenth century, we have a sufficiently exact measure of the
time during which feudalism developed, flourished, and declined. There are few things more
difficult than the bounding of epochs in social evolution by exact dates. Just as the ripening
of the wheat fields comes almost imperceptibly, so that the farmer can say when the wheat is
ripe, yet cannot say when the ripening occurred, so with the epochs into which social history
divides itself. There is the unripe state and the ripe, but no chasm yawns between them; they
are merged together. We speak of the "end" of chattel slavery, and the "rise" of feudalism,
therefore, in a wide, general sense. As a matter of fact, chattel slavery survived to some
extent for centuries, existing alongside of the new form of servitude; and its disappearance
took place, not simultaneously throughout the civilized world, but at varying intervals. Likewise,
there is a vast difference between the first, crude, ill-defined forms of feudalism and its
subsequent development.

The theory of feudalism is the "divine right of kings." God is the Supreme Lord of all the
earth, the kings are His vice-regents, devolving their authority in turn upon whomsoever they
will. All land is held as belonging to the king, God's chosen representative. He divides the
realm among his barons, to rule over and defend. For this they pay tribute to the king--military
service in times of war and, at a later period, money. In turn, the barons divide the land
among the lesser nobility, receiving tribute from them. By these divided among the freemen,
who also pay tribute, the land is tilled by the serfs, who pay service to the freeman, the
lord of the manor. The serf pays no tribute directly to the king, only to his liege lord; the
liege lord pays to his superior, and so on, up to the king. This is the economic framework
of feudalism; with its ecclesiastical side we are not here concerned.

At the base of the whole superstructure, then, was the serf, his relation to his lord differing
only in degree, though in material degree, from that of the chattel slave. He might be, and
often was, as brutally ill-treated as the slave before him had been; he might be ill-fed and
ill-housed; his wife or daughters might be ravished by his master or his master's sons. Yet,
withal, his condition was better than that of the slave. He could maintain his family life
in an independent household; he possessed some rights, chief of which perhaps was the right
to labor for himself. Having his own allotment of land, he was in a much larger sense a human
being. Compelled to render so many days' service to his lord, tilling the soil, clearing the
forest, quarrying stone, and doing domestic work, he was permitted to devote a certain, often
an equal, number of days to work for his own benefit. Not only so, but the service the lord
rendered him, in protecting him and his family from the lawless and violent robber hordes which
infested the country, was considerable.

The feudal estate, or manor, was an industrial whole, self-dependent, and having few essential
ties binding it to the outside world. The barons and their retainers, lords, thanes, and freemen,
enjoyed a certain rude plenty, some of the richer barons enjoying a considerable amount of
luxury and splendor. The villein and his sons tilled the soil, reaped the harvests, felled
trees for fuel, built the houses, raised the necessary domestic animals, and killed the wild
animals; his wife and daughters spun the flax, carded the wool, made the homespun clothing,
brewed the mead, and gathered the grapes which they made into wine. There was little real dependence
upon the outside world except for articles of luxury.

Such was the basic economic institution of feudalism. But alongside of the feudal estate with
its serf labor, there were the free laborers, no longer regarding labor as shameful and degrading.
These free laborers were the handicraftsmen and free peasants, the former soon organizing themselves
into guilds. There was a specialization of labor, but, as yet, little division. Each man worked
at a particular craft and exchanged his individual products. The free craftsman would exchange
his product with the free peasant, and sometimes his trade extended to the feudal manor. The
guild was at once his master and protector; rigid in its rules, strict in its surveillance
of its members, it was strong and effective as a protector against the impositions and invasions
of feudal barons and their retainers. Division of labor first appears in its simplest form,
the association of independent individual workers for mutual advantage, sharing their products
upon a basis of equality. This simple coöperation involved no fundamental, revolutionary change
in society. That came later with the development of the workshop system, and the division of
labor upon a definite, predetermined plan. Men specialized now in the making of parts of things;
no man could say of a finished product, "This is mine, for I made it." Production had become
a social function.

VII

At first, in its simple beginnings, the coöperation of many producers in one great workshop
did not involve any general or far-reaching changes in the system of exchange. But as the new
methods spread, and it became the custom for one or two wealthy individuals to provide the
workshop and necessary tools and materials for production, the product of the combined laborers
being appropriated in its entirety by the owners of the agencies of production, who paid the
workers a money wage representing less than the actual value of their product, and based upon
the cost of their subsistence, the whole economic system was once more revolutionized. The
custom of working for wages, hitherto rare and exceptional, became general and customary; individual
production for use, either directly or through the medium of personal exchange, was superseded
by social production for private profit. The wholesale exchange of social products for private
gain took the place of the personal exchange of commodities. The difference between the total
cost of the production of commodities, including the wages of the producers, and their exchange
value--determined at this stage by the cost of producing similar commodities by individual
labor--constituted the share of the capitalist, his profit, and the objective of his investment.

The new system did not spring up spontaneously and full-fledged. Like feudalism, it was a growth,
a development of existing forms. And just as chattel slavery lingered on after the rise of
the feudal régime, so the old methods of individual production and direct exchange of commodities
for personal use lingered on in places and isolated industries long after the rise of the system
of wage-paid labor and production for profit. But the old methods of production and exchange
gradually became rare and almost obsolete. In accordance with the stern economic law that Marx
afterward developed so clearly, the man whose methods of production, including his tools, are
less efficient and economical than those of his fellows, thereby making his labor more expensive,
must either adapt himself to the new conditions or fall in the struggle which ensues. The triumph
of the new system of capitalist production, with its far greater efficiency arising from associated
production upon a plan of specialized division of labor, was, therefore, but a question of
time. The class of wage-workers thus gradually increased in numbers; as men found that they
were unable to compete with the new methods, they accepted the inevitable and adapted themselves
to the new conditions. The industrial revolution which established capitalism was, like the
great revolutions which ushered in preceding social epochs, the product of man's tools.

FOOTNOTES:

[60] Edward Clodd, Pioneers of Evolution from Thales to Huxley, page 1.

[61] Socialism and Modern Science, by Enrico Ferri, page 96.

[62] Studies in the Evolution of Industrial Society, by R. T. Ely, page 3.

[63] Cf. Seligman, The Economic Interpretation of History.

[64] Clodd, Pioneers of Evolution from Thales to Huxley, page 8.

[65] Seligman, The Economic Interpretation of History, page 50.

[66] Mass and Class, by W. J. Ghent, page 9.

[67] Seligman, The Economic Interpretation of History, page 4.

[68] Schiller, Philosophical Letters, Preamble.

[69] Seligman, The Economic Interpretation of History, page 86.

[70] Karl Marx, Notes on Feuerbach (written in 1845), published as an Appendix to Feuerbach,
The Roots the Socialist Philosophy, by Friederich Engels. English translation by Austin Lewis
(1903).

[71] Christianity and the Social Crisis, by Walter Rauschenbusch (1907), page 4.

[72] For a very scholarly discussion of this subject, the reader is referred to the series
of articles by my friend, M. Beer, on The Rise of Jewish Monotheism, in the Social Democrat
(London), 1908.

[73] Cf. The Economic Foundations of Society, by Achille Lorio, page 26.

[74] Capital, by Karl Marx (Kerr edition). Vol. I, page 91.

[75] Cf. Karl Marx on Sectarianism and Dogmatism (A letter written to his friend, Bolte), in
the International Socialist Review, March, 1908, page 525.

[76] Very significant of the possibilities of a study of religious movements from this economic
and social viewpoint is Professor Thomas C. Hall's little book, The Social Meaning of Modern
Religious Movements in England (1900).

[77] Appendix to F. Engels' Feuerbach, the Roots of the Socialist Philosophy, translated by
Austin Lewis, 1903.

[78] The Eighteenth Brumaire.

[79] Quoted from The Sozialistische Akademiker, 1895, by Seligman, The Economic Interpretation
of History, page 142.

[80] Idem, page 143.

[81] Karl Marx's Nationaloekonomische Irrlehren, von Ludwig Slonimski, Berlin, 1897.

[82] I have not attempted to give a history of the development of the theory. For a more minute
study of the theory, I must refer the reader to the writings of Engels, Seligman, Ferri, Ghent,
Bax, and others quoted in these pages.

[83] Capital, Vol. I, page 406 n. (Kerr edition).

[84] Liebknecht, Memoirs of Karl Marx, page 91.

[85] Charles Darwin and Karl Marx, A Comparison, by Edward Aveling, London, 1897.

[86] See Thorold Rogers, The Economic Interpretation of History, second edition, 1891, pages 10-12.

[87] For various reasons, chief of which is that it would take me too far away from my present
purpose, I do not attempt to develop the serious consequences of these events to Europe. See
The Economic Interpretation of History, Chapter I, for a brief account of this. New edition,
Chicago, 1907.

[89] Darwin, The Descent of Man, second edition, page 163.

[90] Mutual Aid a Factor of Evolution, by Peter Kropotkin, pages 5-6.

[91] Idem, page 74.

[92] Cf. Ancient Society, by Lewis H. Morgan, and The Origins of the Family, Private Property,
and the State, by Friederich Engels.

[93] Engels, Origin of the Family, Private Property, and the State, p. 182.

CHAPTER V

CAPITALISM AND THE LAW OF CONCENTRATION

I

Such was the mode of the development of capitalistic production in its first stage. In this
stage a permanent wage-working class was formed, new markets were developed, many of them by
colonial expansion and territorial conquest, and production for sale and profit became the
rule, instead of the exception as formerly when men produced primarily for use and sold only
their surplus products. A new form of class division thus arose out of this economic soil.
Instead of being bound to the land as the serfs had been under feudalism, the wage-workers
were bound to their tools. They were not bound to a single master, they were not branded on
the cheek, but they were, nevertheless, dependent upon the industrial lords. Economic mastery
gradually shifted from the land-owning class to the class of manufacturers. The political and
social history of the Middle Ages is largely the record of the struggle for supremacy which
was waged between these two classes. That struggle is the central fact of the Protestant Reformation
and the Cromwellian Commonwealth.

The second stage of capitalism begins with the birth of the machine age; the introduction of
the great mechanical inventions of the latter half of the seventeenth century, and the resulting
industrial revolution, the salient features of which we have already traced. That revolution
centered in England, whose proud but, from all other points of view than the commercial, foolish
boast for a full century it was to be "the workshop of the world." The new methods of production,
and the development of trade with India, and the colonies and the United States of America,
providing a vast and apparently almost unlimited market, a tremendous rivalry was created among
the people of England, tauntingly, but with less originality than bitterness, designated "a
nation of shopkeepers" by Napoleon the First. Competition flourished and commerce grew under
its mighty urge. Quite naturally, therefore, competition came to be regarded as "the life of
trade," and the one supreme law of progress by British economists and statesmen. The economic
conditions of the time fostered a sturdy individualism on the one hand, expressing itself in
a policy of laissez faire, which, paradoxically, they as surely destroyed. The result was the
paradox of a nation of theoretic individualists becoming, through its poor laws, and more especially
through the vast body of industrial legislation which developed in spite of theories of laissez
faire, a nation of practical collectivists.

The third and last stage of capitalism is characterized by new forms of industrial ownership,
administration, and control. Concentration of industry and the elimination of competition are
the distinguishing features of this stage. When, more than half a century ago, the Socialists
predicted an era of industrial concentration and monopoly as the outcome of the competitive
struggles of the time, their prophecies were mocked and derided. Yet, at this distance of time,
it is easy to see what they were foresighted enough to envisage in the future; easy enough
to see that competition carries in its bosom the germs of its own inevitable destruction. In
words which, as Professor Ely says,[94] seem to many, even non-Socialists, like a prophecy,
Karl Marx argued that the business units in production would continuously increase in magnitude,
until at last monopoly emerged from the competitive struggle. This monopoly becoming a shackle
upon the system under which it has grown up, and thus becoming incompatible with capitalist
conditions, socialization must, according to Marx, naturally and necessarily follow.[95] In
this as in all the utterances of Marx upon the subject we are reminded of the distinction which
must be made between Socialism as he conceived it and the Socialism of the Utopians. We never
get away from the law of economic interpretation. Socialism, according to Marx, will develop
out of capitalist society, and follow capitalism necessarily and inevitably. It is not a plan
to be adopted, but a stage of social development to be reached.

II

For the moment, we are not concerned with the prediction that Socialism must follow the full
development of capitalism. The important point for our present study is the predicted growth
of monopoly out of competition, and the manner in which that prediction has been realized.
Concerning the manner and extent of the fulfillment of this prediction, there have been many
keen controversies, both within and without the ranks of the followers of Marx. While Marx
and Engels are properly regarded as the first scientific Socialists, having been the first
to postulate Socialism as the outcome of evolution, and to explore the laws of that evolution,
they were not wholly free from the failings of the Utopists. It would be unreasonable to expect
them to be absolutely free from the spirit of their age and their associates. There is, doubtless,
something Utopian in the very mechanical conception of capitalist concentration which Marx
held; the process is too simple and sweeping, the revolution too imminent. Still, by followers
and critics alike, it is generally conceded that the control of the means of production is
being concentrated into the hands of small and ever smaller groups of capitalists. In recent
years the increase in the number of industrial establishments has not kept pace with the increase
in the number of workers employed, the increase of capital, or the value of the products manufactured.
Not only do we find small groups of men controlling certain industries, but a selective process
is clearly observable, giving to the same groups of men control of various industries otherwise
utterly unrelated.

In the early stages of the movement toward concentration and trustification, it was possible
to classify the leading capitalists according to the industries with which they were identified.
One set of capitalists, "Oil Kings," controlled the oil industry; another set, "Steel Kings,"
controlled the iron and steel industry; another set, "Coal Barons," controlled the coal industry,
and so on throughout the industrial and commercial life of the nation. To-day all this has
been changed. An examination of the "Directory of Directors" shows that the same men control
varied enterprises. The Oil King is at the same time a Steel King, a Coal Baron, a Railway
Magnate, and so on. The men who comprise the Standard Oil group, for instance, are found to
control hundreds of other companies. They include in the scope of their directorate, banking,
insurance, milling, real estate, railroad and steamship lines, gas companies, sugar, coffee,
cotton, and tobacco companies, and a heterogeneous host of other concerns. Not only so, but
these same men are large holders of investments in all the great European countries, as well
as India, Australia, Africa, Asia, and the South American countries, while foreign capitalists
similarly, but to a less extent, hold large investments in American companies. Thus, the concentration
of industrial control, through its finance, has become interindustrial and is rapidly becoming
international. The predictions of Marx are being fulfilled, even though not in the precise
manner anticipated by him.

III

During recent years there have been many criticisms of the Marxian theory, aiming to show that
this concentration has been, and is, much more apparent than real. Some of the most important
of these criticisms have come from within the ranks of the Socialist movement itself, and have
been widely exploited as portending the disintegration of the Socialist movement. Inter alia,
it may be remarked here that a certain fretfulness of temper characterizes most of the critics
of Socialism. Strict adherence to the letter of Marx is pronounced as a sign of intellectual
bondage of the movement and its leaders to the "Marxian fetish," and, on the other hand, every
recognition of the human fallibility of Marx by a Socialist thinker is hailed as a sure portent
of a split in the movement. Yet the most serious criticisms of Marx have come from the ranks
of his followers--perhaps only another sign of the intellectual bankruptcy of the academic
opposition to Socialism.

Of course, Marx was human and fallible. If "Capital" had never been written, there would still
have been a Socialist movement, and if it could be destroyed by criticism, the Socialist movement
would remain. Socialism is the product of economic conditions, not of a theory or a book. "Capital"
is the intellectual explanation of the genesis of Socialism, and neither its cause nor an argument
for it by which it must be judged. Hence the futility of such missions as that undertaken by
Mr. W. H. Mallock, for example, based upon the assumption that attacks upon the text of Marx
will serve to destroy or seriously hinder the living movement. Like a prophet's rebuke to these
critics, as well as to those within the ranks of the Socialist movement who would make of the
words of Marx and Engels fetters to bind the movement to a dogma, come the words of Engels,
published recently, letters in which he writes vigorously to his friend Sorge concerning the
working-class movement in England and America. Of his compatriots, the handful of German Socialist
exiles in America, who sought to make the American workers swallow a mass of ill-digested Marxian
theory, he writes, "The Germans have never understood how to apply themselves from their theory
to the lever which could set the American masses in motion; to a great extent they do not understand
the theory itself and treat it in a doctrinaire and dogmatic fashion.... It is a credo to them,
not a guide to action." And again, "Our theory is not a dogma, but the exposition of a process
of evolution, and that process involves several successive phases." Of the English movement
he writes, "And here an instinctive Socialism is more and more taking possession of the masses
which, fortunately, is opposed to all distinct formulation according to the dogmas of one or
the other so-called organizations," and again, he condemns "the bringing down of the Marxian
theory of development to a rigid orthodoxy."[96] The critics who hope to destroy the Socialist
movement of to-day by stringing together mistaken predictions of Marx and Engels, or who think
that Socialism is losing its grip because it is adjusting its expressions to the changed conditions
which the progress of fifty years has brought about, utterly mistake the character of the movement.
In its abandonment of the errors of Marx it is most truly Marxian--because it is expressing
life instead of repeating dogma.

Doubtless Marx anticipated a much more complete concentration of capital and industry than
has yet taken place; doubtless, too, he underrated the powers of endurance of some petty industries,
and saw the breakdown of capitalism in a cataclysm, whereas modern Socialists see its merging
into a form of socialization. But, when all this is admitted, it cannot be fairly said that
the sum of criticism has seriously affected the general Marxian theory, as apart from its particular
exposition by Marx himself. So far as the criticism has touched the subject of capitalist concentration,
it has been pitifully weak, and the furore it has created seems almost pathetic. The main results
of this criticism may be briefly summarized as follows: First, in industry, the persistence,
and, in some cases, even increase, of petty industries; second, in agriculture, the failure
of large-scale farming, and the decrease of the average farm acreage; third, in retail trade,
the persistence of the small stores, despite the growth in size and number of the great department
stores; fourth, the fact that concentration of industry does not imply a like concentration
of wealth, the number of shareholders in a great industrial combination being frequently greater
than the number of owners in the units of industry prior to the combination. At first sight,
and stated in this manner, it would seem as if these conclusions, if justified by the facts,
involved a serious and far-reaching criticism of the Socialist theory of a universal tendency
toward the concentration of industry and commerce into units of ever increasing magnitude.

But upon closer examination, these conclusions, their accuracy admitted, are seen to involve
no very damaging criticism of the theory. To the superficial observer, the mere increase in
the number of industrial establishments seems a much more important matter than to the careful
student, who is not easily deceived by appearances. The student sees that while some petty
industries undoubtedly do increase in number, the increase of large industries employing many
more workers and much larger capitals is vastly greater. Furthermore, he sees what the superficial
observer constantly overlooks, namely, that these petty industries are, for the most part,
unstable and transient, being continually absorbed by the larger industrial combinations or
crushed out of existence, as soon as they have obtained sufficient vitality and strength to
make them worthy of notice, either as tributaries to be desired or potential competitors to
be feared. Petty industries in a very large number of cases represent a stage in social descent,
the wreckage of larger industries whose owners are economically as dependent as the ordinary
wage-workers, or even poorer and more to be pitied. Where, on the contrary, it is a stage in
social ascent, the petty industry is, paradoxical as the idea may appear, frequently part of
the process of industrial concentration. By independent gleaning, it endeavors to find sufficient
business to maintain its existence. If it fails in this, its owner falls back to the proletarian
level from which, in most instances, he arose. If it succeeds only to a degree sufficient to
maintain its owner at or near the average wage-earner's level of comfort, it may pass unnoticed
and unmolested. If, on the other hand, it gleans sufficient business to make it desirable as
a tributary, or potentially dangerous as a competitor, the petty business is pounced upon by
its mightier rival and either absorbed or crushed, according to the temper or need of the latter.
Critics of the Marxian theory have for the most part completely failed to recognize this significant
aspect of the subject, and attached far too much importance to the continuance of petty industries.

IV

What is true of petty industry is true in even greater measure of retail trade. Nothing could
well be further from the truth than the hasty generalization of some critics, that an increase
in the number of retail business establishments invalidates the theory of a progressive concentration
of capital. In the first place, many of these establishments have no independence whatsoever,
but are merely agencies of larger enterprises. Mr. Macrosty has shown that in London the cheap
restaurants are in the hands of four or five firms, and this is a branch of business which,
because it calls for relatively small capital, shows in a marked manner the increase of establishments.
Much the same conditions exist in connection with the trade in milk and bread.[97] Similar
conditions prevail in almost all the large cities of this country. Single companies are known
to control hundreds of saloons, restaurants, cigar stores, shoe stores, bake shops, coal depots,
and the like. A multitude of other businesses are subject to this rule, and it is doubtful
whether, after all, there has been the real increase of individual ownership which Mr. Ghent
concedes.[98] However that may be, it is certain that a very large number of the business establishments
which figure as statistical units in the argument against the Socialist theory of the concentration
of capital might very properly be regarded as so many evidences in its favor.

A very large number of small businesses, moreover, are really manipulated by speculators, and
serve only as a means of divesting prudent and thrifty artisans and others of their little
savings. Whoever has lived in the poorer quarters of a great city, where small stores are most
numerous, and has watched the changes constantly occurring in the stores of the neighborhood,
will realize the significance of this observation. The writer has known stores on the upper
East Side of New York, where for several years he resided, change hands as many as six or seven
times in a single year. What happened was generally this: A workingman having been thrown out
of employment, or forced to give up his work by reason of age, sickness, or accident, decided
to attempt to make a living in "business." In a few weeks, or a few months at most, his small
savings were swallowed up, and he had to leave the store, making place for the next victim.
An acquaintance of the writer owns six tenement houses in different parts of New York City,
the ground floors of which are occupied by small stores. These stores are rented by the month
just as other portions of the buildings are, and the owner, on going over his books for a period
of five years, found that the average duration of tenancy in them had been less than eight months.

During the past few years in the United States, as a result of the development of the many
inventions for the production of "moving pictures," a new kind of cheap, popular theater has
become common. Usually the charge of admission is five cents, whence the name "Nickelodeon";
the entertainment consists usually of a number of more or less dramatic incidents portrayed
by means of the pictures, and a few songs, generally illustrated by pictures, and sung to the
accompaniment of a mechanical piano. In almost every town in the United States these cheap
pictorial theaters have appeared and their number will, doubtless, considerably swell the total
of business establishments. In the small towns of the State of New York, the writer made an
investigation and found that there were frequently several such places in the same town; that
they were practically all built by the same persons, started by them, and then leased to others.
These were generally people with small savings who, in the course of a few weeks, lost all
their money and retired, their places being taken by other victims of the speculators. What
seemed to the casual observer an admirable and conspicuous example of an increase in petty
business, proved, upon closer study, to be a very striking example of concentration, disguised
for purposes of speculation.

Thus reduced, the increase of small industries and retail establishments affects the contention
that there is a general tendency to concentration very little. It does perhaps seriously weaken,
or even destroy, some extreme statements of the theory, contending that the process of monopolization
must be a direct, simple process of continuous absorption and elimination, leaving each year
fewer small units than before. Small stores do exist; they have not been put out of existence
by the big department stores as was at one time confidently predicted. They serve a real social
need by supplying the minor commodities of everyday use in small quantities, just as the petty
industries serve a real social need. Many of them are conducted by married women to supplement
the earnings of their husbands, or by widows; others by men unable to work, whose income from
them is less than the wages of artisans. Together, these probably constitute a majority of
the small retail establishments which show any tendency to increase.[99]

The effect of this increase is still further lessened when it is remembered that only the critics
of Socialism interpret the Marxian theory to mean that all petty industry and business must
disappear, that all must be concentrated into large industrial and commercial units, to make
Socialism possible. If we are to judge Marxism as the basis of the Socialist movement, we must
judge it by the interpretation given to it by the Socialists, and not otherwise. There is no
Socialist of note to-day who does not realize that many small industrial and business enterprises
will continue to exist for a very long time, even continuing to exist under a Socialist régime.
Kautsky, perhaps the ablest living exponent of the Marxian theories, leader of the "Orthodox"
Marxists, admits this. He has very ably argued that the ripeness of society for Socialism,
for social production and control, depends, not upon the number of little industries that still
remain, but upon the number of great industries which already exist.[100] The ripeness of society
for Socialism is not disproved by the number of ruins and relics abounding. "Without a developed
great industry, Socialism is impossible," says this writer. "Where, however, a great industry
exists to a considerable degree, it is easy for a Socialist society to concentrate production,
and to quickly rid itself of the little industry."[101] It is the increase of large industries,
then, which Socialists regard as the essential preliminary condition of Socialism.

Far more important than the increase or decrease of the number of units is their relative significance
in the total production, a phase of the subject which is rather disingenuously avoided by most
critics of Marxism. Mr. Lucien Sanial, a Socialist statistician of repute, and one of the profoundest
Marxian students in America, has shown this in a number of suggestive tables. For example,
he takes twenty-seven typical manufacturing industries for the years 1880, 1900, and 1905,
and compares the number of establishments in each year with the total amount of capital invested
and workers employed. In 1880 the number of establishments was 63,233; in 1900 the number was
51,912, and in 1905 it was only 44,142. From 1880 to 1905 there had been a decrease in the
number of establishments of 35.3 per cent, of which 15 per cent took place within the last
five years. But within the same period there had been an increase in the amount of capital
invested in these twenty-seven industries as follows: from $1,276,600,000 in 1880 to $3,324,500,000
in 1900 and to $4,628,800,000 in 1905--a total increase from 1880 to 1905 of 262.6 per cent.
On the other hand, the number of wage-workers increased in the same period only 60.2 per cent,
the number in 1905 being 1,731,500, as against 1,611,000 in 1900 and 1,080,200 in 1880.

In another table, forty-seven industries are taken. These forty-seven industries comprised
29,800 establishments in 1900; five years later there were but 26,182. In 1900 the total capital
invested in these industries was $1,005,400,000, and in 1905 it had increased to $1,339,500,000.
In the same five years the number of wage-workers increased only from 618,000 to 749,000. Thus,
in the group of larger industries and the group of smaller ones we find the same evidences
of concentration: less establishments, larger capitals, and an increase of wage-workers not
equal to the increase in capitalization.[102]

In connection with these figures, the following table may be profitably studied, as showing
the relative insignificance of the small producer in the total volume of manufacture. It will
be seen that the two largest classes of establishments have only 24,163 establishments, 11.2
per cent of the total number. But they have $10,333,000,000, or 81.5 per cent of the total
manufacturing capital, and employ 71.6 per cent of all wage-workers in manufacturing industries.
It may be added that they turn out 79.3 per cent of the total product. Of the petty industries
proper, those having a capital of less than $5000, it will be observed that they number 32.9
per cent of the total number of establishments, but employ only 1.3 per cent of the capital
invested, and only 1.9 per cent of the wage-workers. It is clear, therefore, that our manufacturing
industry in very highly concentrated, and that the petty industries are, despite their number,
a very insignificant factor.

TABLE OF MANUFACTURING ESTABLISHMENTS, 1905[103]

CAPITALS   NUMBER    PER   TOTAL CAPITAL    PER     NO. OF          PER
                     CENT                   CENT    WAGE-WORKERS    CENT

Less than $5,000      71,162   32.9   $165,300,000     1.3       106,300       1.9

$5,000 to $20,000     72,806   33.7    531,100,000     4.2       419,600       7.7

$20,000 to $100,000    48,144   22.2  1,655,800,000    13.0     1,027,700      18.8

$100,000 to $1,000,000  22,281   10.0  5,551,700,000    43.8     2,537,550      46.4

Over $1,000,000   1,882    0.9  4,782,300,000    37.7     1,379,150      25.2

When we turn to agriculture, the criticisms of the Socialist theory appear more substantial
and important. A few years ago we witnessed the rise and rapid growth of the great bonanza
farms in this country. It was shown that the advantages of large capital and the consolidation
of productive forces resulted, in farming as in manufacture, in greatly cheapened production.[104]
The end of the small farm was declared to be imminent, and it seemed for a while that concentration
in agriculture would even outrun concentration in manufacture. This predicted absorption of
the small farms by the larger, and the average increase of farm acreage, has not, however,
been fulfilled to any great degree. An increase in the number of small farms, and a decrease
in the average acreage, is shown in almost all the states. The increase of great estates shown
by the census figures probably bears little or no relation to real farming, consisting mainly
of great stock grazing ranches in the West, and unproductive gentlemen's estates in the East.

Apparently, then, the Socialist theory that "the big fish eat up the little ones, and are in
turn eaten by still bigger ones," is not applicable to agriculture. On the contrary, it seems
that the great farms cannot compete successfully with the smaller farms. It is therefore not
surprising that writers so sympathetic to Socialism as Professor Werner Sombart and Professor
Richard T. Ely should claim that the Marxian system breaks down when it reaches the sphere
of agricultural industry, and that it seems to be applicable only to manufacture. This position
has been taken by a not inconsiderable body of Socialists in recent years, and is one of the
tenets of that critical movement within the Socialist ranks which has come to be known as "Revisionism."
Nothing is more delusive than statistical argument of this kind, and while these conclusions
should be given due weight, they should not be too hastily accepted. An examination of the
statistical basis of the argument is necessary.

In the first place, small agricultural holdings do not necessarily imply economic independence,
any more than do petty industries or businesses. When we examine the census figures carefully,
the first important fact which challenges attention is that, whereas of the farms in the United
States in 1880, 71.6 per cent were operated by their owners, in 1900 the proportion had declined
to 64.7 per cent. In 1900, of the 5,739,657 farms in the United States, no less than 2,026,286
were operated by tenants. Concerning the ownership of these rented farms little investigation
has been made, and it is likely that careful inquiry would elicit the fact that this is a not
unimportant phase of agricultural concentration, though not revealed by the figures in the
census reports. It remains to be said concerning these figures, however, that they do not lend
support to the theory that the small farms are being swallowed up by the larger ones, for in
the same period there was a very decided increase in the number of farms operated by their
owners. Thus we have the same set of figures used to support both sides of the controversy--one
side calling attention to the decreased proportion of farms operated by their owners, the other
to the increased number.

A similar difficulty presents itself in connection with the subject of mortgaged farm holdings.
In 1890, the mortgaged indebtedness of the farmers of the United States amounted to the immense
sum of $1,085,995,960, a sum almost equal to the value of the entire wheat crop. Now, while
a mortgage is certainly not suggestive of independence, it may be either a sign of decreasing
or increasing independence. It may be a step toward the ultimate loss of one's farm or a step
toward the ultimate ownership of one. Much that has been written by Populist and Socialist
pamphleteers and editors upon this subject has been based upon the entirely erroneous assumption
that a mortgaged farm meant loss of economic independence, whereas it often happens that it
is a step toward it. The fact is that we know very little concerning the ownership of these
mortgages, which is the crux of the question. It is known that many of the insurance, banking,
and trust companies have invested largely in farm mortgages. This is another phase of concentration
which the critics of the theory have overlooked almost entirely. One thing seems certain, namely,
that farm ownership is not on the decline. It is not being supplanted by tenantry; the small
farms are not being absorbed by larger ones. It seems a fair deduction from the facts, then,
that the small farmer will continue to be an important factor--indeed, the most important factor--in
American agriculture for a long time to come, perhaps permanently. If the Socialist movement
is to succeed in America, it must recognize this fact in its propaganda.

V

Most of the criticism of the Marxian theory of concentration is based upon a very unsatisfactory
definition of what is meant by concentration. The decrease of small units and their absorption
or supercession by larger units is generally understood when concentration is spoken of. But
concentration may take other, very different forms. There may be a concentration of control,
for example, without concentration of actual ownership, or there may be concentration of actual
ownership disguised by mortgages, as already suggested. The sweated trades are a familiar example
of the former method of concentration. It has been shown over and over again that while small
establishments remain a necessary condition of sweated industry, there is almost always effective
concentration of control. To all appearances an independent manufacturer on a small scale,
the sweater is generally nothing more than the agent of some big establishment, which finds
it more economical to let the work be done in sweatshops than in its own factories. The same
thing holds good of the retail trades, many of the apparently independent retail stores being
simply agencies for big wholesale houses, controlled by them in every way. In an even larger
measure, agriculture is subject to a control that is quite independent of actual or even nominal
ownership of the farm. Manifestly, therefore, we need a more accurate and comprehensive definition
of concentration than the one generally accepted. Mr. A. M. Simons, in an admirable study of
the agricultural question from the Socialist viewpoint, defines concentration as "a movement
tending to give a continually diminishing minority of the persons engaged in any industry,
a constantly increasing control over the essentials, and a continually increasing share of
the total value of the returns of the industry."[105] It is no part of the purpose of this
chapter to discuss this definition at length. It is sufficient to have thus emphasized that
concentration may be quite as effective when it is limited to control as when it embraces ownership.

There are, then, other forms of concentration than the physical one, the amalgamation of smaller
units to form larger ones, and very often these forms of concentration go on unperceived and
unsuspected. There can be no doubt that this is especially true of agricultural industry. Many
branches of farming, as the industry was carried on by our fathers and their fathers before
them, have been transferred from the farmhouse to the factory. Butter and cheese making, for
example, have largely passed out of the farm kitchen into the factory. The writer recalls a
visit to a large farm in the Middle West. The sound of a churn is never heard there, notwithstanding
that it is a "dairy farm," and all the butter and cheese consumed in that household is bought
at the village store. Doubtless this farm but presented an exaggerated form of a condition
that is becoming more and more common. The invention of labor-saving machinery and its application
to agriculture leads to a division of the industry and the absorption by the factory of the
parts most influenced by the new processes. When we remember the tremendous rôle which complex
agencies outside of the farm play in modern agricultural industry, we see the subject of concentration
as it applies to that industry in a new light. The grain elevators, cold-storage houses, creameries,
and even railroads, are part of the necessary equipment of production, but they are owned and
operated independently of the farm. There is a good deal of concentration of production in
agriculture which takes the form of the absorption of some of its processes by factories instead
of by other farms.

VI

We must also distinguish between the concentration of industry and the concentration of wealth.
While there is a natural relation between these two phenomena, they are by no means identical.
The trustification of a given industry may bring together a score of industrial units in one
gigantic concern, so concentrating capital and production, but it is conceivable that every
one of the owners of the units which compose the trust may have a share in it equal to the
capital value of his particular unit, but more profitable. In that case, there can obviously
be no concentration of wealth. What occurs is that all are benefited by certain economies,
in exact proportion to their holdings in the capital stock. It may even happen that a larger
number of persons participate, as shareholders, in the amalgamation than were formerly concerned
in the ownership of the units of which the amalgamation is composed. Assuming, for the purposes
of our argument, that these persons are represented by new capital, that the former owners
of independent units share upon an equitable basis, there will be increased diffusion of wealth
instead of its concentration. As Professor Ely says, "If the stock of the United States Steel
Corporation were owned by individuals holding one share each, the concentration in industry
would be just as great as it is now, but there would be a wide diffusion in the ownership of
the wealth of the corporation."[106]

Obvious as this distinction may seem, it is very often lost sight of, and when recognized it
presents difficulties which are almost insurmountable. It is well-nigh impossible to present
statistically the relation of the concentration of capital to the concentration or diffusion
of wealth, important as the point is in its bearings upon modern Socialist theory. While the
distinction does not affect the argument that the concentration of capital and industry makes
their socialization possible, it is nevertheless an important matter. If, as some writers,
notably Bernstein,[107] the Socialist, have argued, the concentration of capital and industry
really leads to the decentralization of wealth, and the diffusion of the advantages of concentration
among the great mass of the people, especially by creating a new class of salaried dependents,
then, instead of creating a class of exploiters ever becoming less numerous, and a class of
proletarians ever becoming more numerous, the tendency of modern capitalism is to distribute
the gains of industry over a widening area--a process of democratization in fact. It is very
evident that if this contention is a correct one, there must be a softening rather than an
intensifying of class antagonisms; a tendency away from class divisions, and to greater satisfaction
with present conditions, rather than increasing discontent. If this theory can be sustained,
the advocates of Socialism will be obliged to change the nature of their propaganda from an
appeal to the economic interest of the proletariat to the general ethical sense of mankind.
There can be no successful movement based upon the interests of one class if the tendency of
modern capitalism is to democratize the life of the world and diffuse its wealth over larger
social areas than ever before.

The exponents of this theory have based their arguments upon statistical data chiefly relating
to: (1) The number of taxable incomes in countries where incomes are taxed; (2) the number
of investors in industrial and commercial countries; (3) the number of savings bank deposits.
As often happens when reliance is placed upon the direct statistical method, the result of
all the discussion and controversy upon this subject is extremely disappointing and confusing.
The same figures are used to support both sides of the argument with equal plausibility. The
difficulty lies in the fact that the available statistics do not include all the facts essential
to a scientific and conclusive result.

It is not intended here to add to the Babel of voices in this discussion, but to present the
conclusions of two or three of the most careful investigators in this field. Professor Ely[108]
quotes a table of incomes in the Grand Duchy of Baden, based upon the income tax returns of
that country, which has formed the theme of much dispute. The table shows that in the two years,
1886 and 1896, less than one per cent of the incomes assessed were over 10,000 marks a year,
and from this fact it has been argued that wealth in that country has not been concentrated
to any very great extent. In like manner, the French economist, Leroy-Beaulieu, has argued
that the fact that in 1896 only 2750 persons in Paris had incomes of over 100,000 francs a
year betokens a wide diffusion of wealth and an absence of concentration.[109] But the important
point of the discussion, the proportion of the total wealth owned by these classes, is entirely
lost sight of by those who argue in this manner. Further, it must always be borne in mind that
there is a decided tendency in all income tax schedules to understate the amount of incomes
above a certain size, the larger the income the more likelihood of its being understated in
the returns. The psychology of this fact needs no elaborate demonstration. Taking the figures
for the Grand Duchy of Baden as they are given, we have no particulars at all concerning the
number of incomes under 500 marks, but of the persons assessed upon incomes of 500 marks and
over, in 1886, the poorest two thirds had about one third of the total income, and the richest
0.69 per cent had 12.78 per cent of the total income. So far, the figures show a much greater
concentration of wealth than appears from the simple fact that less than one per cent of the
incomes assessed were over 10,000 marks a year.

Going further, we compare the two years, 1886 and 1896, and find that this concentration increased
during the ten-year period as follows: In 1886, there were 2212 incomes of more than 10,000
marks assessed, being 0.69 per cent of the total number. In 1896, there were 3099 incomes of
more than 10,000 marks assessed, being 0.78 per cent of the total number. In 1886, 0.69 per
cent of the incomes assessed amounted to 51,403,000 marks, representing 12.77 per cent of the
total assessed wealth; while in 1896, 0.78 per cent of the incomes assessed amounted to 81,986,000
marks, representing 15.02 per cent of the total wealth so assessed. In 1886 there were 18 incomes
of over 200,000 marks a year, aggregating 6,864,000 marks, 1.70 per cent of the total value
of all incomes assessed; in 1896, there were 28 such incomes, aggregating 12,481,000 marks,
or 2.29 per cent of the total value of all incomes assessed. The increase of concentration
shown by these figures is not disputable, it seems to the present writer, when they are thus
carefully analyzed, notwithstanding the fact that the table from which they are drawn is sometimes
used to support the opposite contention.

According to the late Professor Richmond Mayo-Smith,[110] seventy per cent of the population
of Prussia have incomes below the income tax standard, their total income representing only
one third of the total income of the population. An additional one fourth of the population
enjoys one third of the total income, while the remaining one third goes to about four per
cent of the people. The significance of these figures is clearly shown by the following diagram:--

In Saxony the statistics show that "two thirds of the population possess less than one third
of the income, and that 3.5 per cent of the upper incomes receive more than 66 per cent at
the lower end." From a table prepared by Sir Robert Giffen, a notoriously optimistic statistician,
always the exponent of an ultra-roseate view of social conditions, Professor Mayo-Smith concludes
that in England, "about ten per cent of the people receive nearly one half of the total income."[111]
These figures are rather out of date, it is true, but they err in understating the amount of
concentration rather than otherwise, as the researches of Mr. Chiozza Money, M.P., and others
show.[112]

In this country, the absence of income tax figures makes it impossible to get direct statistical
evidence as to the distribution of incomes. The most careful estimate of the distribution of
wealth in the United States yet made is that by the late Dr. Charles B. Spahr.[113] Written
in 1895, Dr. Spahr's book cannot be regarded as an accurate presentation of conditions as they
exist at the present moment, yet here again there is every reason to believe that the process
of concentration has gone on unchecked since he wrote. It is not necessary for our present
purpose, however, to accept the estimate of Dr. Spahr as authoritative and conclusive. The
figures are quoted here simply as the result reached by the most patient, conscientious, and
scientific examination of the distribution of wealth in this country yet made. Dr. Spahr's
conclusion was that in 1895 less than one half of the families in the United States were property-less;
but that, nevertheless, seven eighths of the families owned only one eighth of the national
wealth, while one per cent of the families owned more than the remaining ninety-nine per cent.

Mr. Lucien Sanial, in a most careful analysis of the census for 1900, shows that, classified
according to occupations, 250,251 persons possessed $67,000,000,000, out of a total of $95,000,000,000
given as the national wealth; that is to say, 0.9 per cent of the total number in all occupations
owned 70.5 per cent of the total national wealth. The middle class, consisting of 8,429,845
persons, being 29.0 per cent of the total number in all occupations, owned $24,000,000,000,
or 25.3 per cent of the total national wealth. The lowest class, the proletariat, consisting
of 20,393,137 persons, being 70.1 per cent of the total number in all occupations, owned but
$4,000,000,000, or 4.2 per cent of the total wealth. To recapitulate: Of the 29,073,233 persons
ten years old and over engaged in occupations,

      0.9 per cent own    70.5 per cent of total wealth.
     29.0 per cent own    25.3 per cent of total wealth.
     70.1 per cent own     4.2 per cent of total wealth.

Startling as these figures are, it will be evident upon reflection that they do not adequately
represent the amount of wealth concentration. The occupational basis is not quite satisfactory
as applied to the richest class. It serves for the proletarian class, of course, and for a
very large part of the middle class. In these classes, as a rule, the occupied persons represent
wealth ownership. But this is by no means true of the richest class. In this class we have
a very considerable proportion of the wealth owned by unoccupied persons, such as the wives
rich in their own right, children and other unoccupied members of families rich by inheritance.
Mr. Henry Laurens Call, in a paper read before the American Association for the Advancement
of Science, at Columbia University, at the end of 1906, made these figures the basis of the
startling estimate that one per cent of our population own not less than ninety per cent of
our total wealth.

There is a peculiarity of modern capitalism which enables the great capitalists to control
vastly more wealth than they own. Take any group of large capitalists, and it will be found
that they control a much greater volume of capital than they own. The invested capital of a
multitude of small investors is in their keeping, and they can and do use it for purposes of
their own. Thus we have a concentration of capitalist control which goes far beyond the concentration
of ownership. And this concentration of the essential control of the capital of a country becomes
more and more important each year. It is recognized to-day that the most important capitalist
is not he who himself owns the greatest amount of capital, but he who controls the greatest
amount, quite irrespective of its ownership.

The growth of immense private fortunes is an indisputable evidence of the concentration of
wealth. In 1854 there were not more than twenty-five millionaires in New York City, their total
fortunes aggregating $43,000,000. There were not more than fifty millionaires in the whole
of the United States, their aggregate fortunes not exceeding $80,000,000. To-day there are
several individual fortunes of more than $80,000,000 each. New York City alone is said to have
over two thousand millionaires, and the United States more than five thousand. By a curious
mental process, the New York World, when the first edition of this little book appeared, sought
to prove in a labored editorial that the increase of millionaires tended to prove an increasing
diffusion of wealth rather than the contrary. It is hardly worth while, perhaps, making any
reply to such puerility. Every student knows that the multimillionaire is only possible as
a result of the concentration of wealth, that such fortunes are realized by the absorption
of numerous smaller ones. Further, it is only necessary to add that all the millionaires of
1854, together with the half millionaires, owned not more than about $100,000,000 out of the
total wealth, which was at that time something like $10,000,000,000. In other words, they owned
not more than one per cent of the wealth of the country. In 1890, when the wealth of the country
was slightly more than $65,000,000,000, Senator Ingalls could quote in the United States Senate
a table showing that the millionaires and half millionaires of that time, 31,100 persons in
all, owned $36,250,000,000, or just fifty-six per cent of the entire wealth of the United States.[114]
Professor Ely accepts the logic of the statistical data gathered in Europe and the United States,
and says "such statistics as we have ... all indicate a marked concentration of wealth, both
in this country and Europe."[115]

VII

Summing up, we may state the argument of this chapter very briefly as follows: The Socialist
theory is that competition is self-destructive, and that the inevitable result of the competitive
process is to produce monopoly, either through the crushing out of the weak by the strong,
or the combination of units as a result of a conscious recognition of the wastes of competition
and the advantages of coöperation. The law of capitalist development, therefore, is from competition
and division to combination and concentration. As this concentration proceeds, a large class
of proletarians is formed on the one hand, and a small class of capitalist lords on the other,
an essential antagonism of interests existing between the two classes. Petty industries may
continue to exist, though, upon the whole, the tendency is toward their extinction. In certain
industries, their number may even increase, but their relative importance is constantly decreasing.
While Socialism does not preclude the continued existence of small private industry or business,
it does require and depend upon the development of a large body of concentrated industry, monopolies
which can be transformed into social monopolies whenever the people may decide so to transform
them. These conditions are being fulfilled in the evolution of our economic system.

The interindustrial and international trustification of industry shows a remarkable fulfillment
of the law of capitalist concentration which the Socialists were the first to formulate; the
existence of petty industries and businesses, or their numerical increase even, being a relatively
insignificant matter compared with the enormous increase in large industries and businesses,
and their share in the total volume of industry and commerce. In agriculture, concentration,
while it does not proceed so rapidly or directly as in manufacture and commerce, and while
it takes directions and forms unforeseen by the Socialists of a generation ago, proceeds surely
nevertheless. Along with this concentration of capital and industry proceeds the concentration
of wealth into proportionately fewer hands. While a certain diffusion of wealth takes place
through the mechanism of capitalist concentration, by developing a new class of highly salaried
officials, and enabling numerous small investors to own shares in great industrial and commercial
corporations, it is not sufficient to balance the expropriation which goes on in the competitive
struggle, and it is true that a larger proportion of the national wealth is owned by a minority
of the population than ever before, that minority being proportionately less numerous than
ever before. Further, the peculiar financial organization of modern capitalist society enables
the ruling capitalists to control and use to their own advantage the wealth of others invested
in industrial and commercial corporations. Thus to the concentration of ownership must be added
the concentration of control, which plays an increasingly important part in capitalist economics.

Whatever defects there may be in the Marxian theory, as outlined by Marx himself, and whatever
modifications of his statement of it may be rendered necessary by changed conditions, in its
main and essential features it has successfully withstood all the criticisms which have been
directed against it. Economic literature is full of prophecies, but in its whole range there
is not an instance of prophecy more literally and abundantly fulfilled than that which Marx
made concerning the trend of capitalist development. And Karl Marx was not a prophet--he but
read clearly the meaning of certain facts which others had not learned to read, the law of
social dynamics. That is not prophecy, but science.

FOOTNOTES:

[94] Studies in the Evolution of Industrial Society, by R. T. Ely, page 95.

[95] Capital, Vol. I (Kerr edition), page 837.

[96] Briefe und Auszüge aus Briefen von Joh. Phil. Becker, Jos. Dietzgen, Friederich Engels,
Karl Marx u. A. an F. A. Sorge und Andere, Stuttgart, 1906.

[97] H. W. Macrosty, The Growth of Monopoly in English Industry (Fabian Tract).

[98] Our Benevolent Feudalism, by W. J. Ghent, pages 17-21.

[99] A factor of tremendous importance in the maintenance of petty industries and business
establishments in this country, which Marx could not have anticipated, has been the unprecedented
volume of foreign immigration. Not only have some menial personal services--such as shoe cleaning,
for example--been transformed into regular businesses by immigrants from certain countries,
but the massing together of immigrants, aliens in language, customs, tastes, and manners, provides
a very favorable soil for the development of small business enterprises.

[100] The Social Revolution, by Karl Kautsky, Part I, page 144. See also the argument by Paul
Lafargue, Marx's son-in-law, that Socialism will not oppose petty agriculture by private individuals
working their own farms.--Revue Politique et Parliamentaire, October, 1898, page 70.

[101] Kautsky, The Social Revolution, page 144.

[102] The figures are quoted from Socialism Inevitable, by Gaylord Wilshire, pages 325-326.

[103] The table is quoted from Socialism Inevitable, by Gaylord Wilshire, page 326.

[104] The cost of raising wheat in California, where large farming has been most scientifically
developed, is said to vary from 92.5 cents per 100 pounds on farms of 1000 acres to 40 cents
on farms of 50,000 acres.

[105] The American Farmer, by A. M. Simons, page 97.

[106] Studies in the Evolution of Industrial Society, by Richard T. Ely, page 255.

[107] Die Voraussetzungen des Sozialismus, by Edward Bernstein, page 47.

[108] Studies in the Evolution of Industrial Society, by Richard T. Ely, pages 261-262.

[109] Essai sur la repartition des richesses et sur la tendance à une moindre inégalité des
conditions, par Leroy-Beaulieu, page 564.

[110] Statistics and Economics, by Richmond Mayo-Smith, Book III, Distribution.

[112] Cf. Riches and Poverty, by Chiozza Money, M.P.; also, Fabian Tract, No. 5.

[113] The Present Distribution of Wealth in the United States, by Charles B. Spahr (1896).

[114] Writings and Speeches of John J. Ingalls, page 320.

[115] Studies in the Evolution of Industrial Society, page 265.

CHAPTER VI

THE CLASS STRUGGLE THEORY

I

No part of the theory of modern Socialism has called forth so much criticism and opposition
as the doctrine of the class struggle. Many who are otherwise sympathetic to Socialism denounce
this doctrine as narrow, brutal, and productive of antisocialistic feelings of class hatred.
Upon all hands the doctrine is condemned as an un-American appeal to passion and a wicked exaggeration
of social conditions. When President Roosevelt attacks the preachers of the doctrine, and wrathfully
condemns class-consciousness as "a foul thing," he doubtless expresses the views of a majority
of American citizens. The insistence of Socialists upon this aspect of their propaganda is
undoubtedly responsible for keeping a great many outside of their movement who otherwise would
be identified with it. If the Socialists would repudiate the doctrine that Socialism is a class
movement, and make their appeal to the intelligence and conscience of all classes, instead
of to the interests of a special class, they could probably double their numerical strength
at once. To many, therefore, it seems a fatuous and quixotic policy to preach such a doctrine,
and it is very often charitably ascribed to the peculiar intellectual and moral myopia of fanaticism.

Before accepting this conclusion, and before indorsing the Rooseveltian verdict, the reader
is bound as a matter of common fairness, and of intellectual integrity, to consider the Socialist
side of the argument. There is no greater fanaticism than that which condemns what it does
not take the trouble to understand. The Socialists claim that the doctrine is misrepresented;
that it does not produce class hatred; and that it is a vital and pivotal point of Socialist
philosophy. The class struggle, says the Socialist, is a law of social development. We only
recognize the law, and are no more responsible for its existence than for the law of gravitation.
The name of Marx is associated with the law in just the same manner as the name of Newton is
associated with the law of gravitation, but Marx is no more responsible for the social law
he discovered than was Newton for the physical law he discovered. There were class struggles
thousands of years before there was a Socialist movement, thousands of years before Marx was
born, and it is therefore absurd to charge us with the creation of the class struggle, or class
hatred. We realize perfectly well that if we ignored this law in our propaganda, making our
appeal to a universal sense of abstract justice and truth, many who now hold aloof from us
would join our movement. But we should not gain strength as a result of their accession to
our ranks. We should be obliged to emasculate Socialism, to dilute it, in order to win a support
of questionable value. History teems with examples of the disaster which inevitably attends
such a course. We should be quixotic and fatuous indeed if we attempted anything of the kind.
Such, briefly stated, are the main outlines of the reply which the average Socialist gives
to the criticism of the class struggle doctrine described.

The class struggle theory is part of the economic interpretation of history. Since the dissolution
of primitive tribal society, the modes of economic production and exchange have inevitably
grouped men into economic classes. First, that class divisions and class struggles arise out
of the economic life of society. Second, that since the dissolution of primitive tribal society,
which was communistic in character, mankind has been divided into economic groups or classes,
and all its history has been a history of struggles between these classes, ruling and ruled,
exploiting and exploited, being forever at war with each other. Third, that the different epochs
in human history, stages in the evolution of society, have been characterized by the interests
of the ruling class. Fourth, that a stage has now been reached in the evolution of society
where the struggle assumes a form which makes it impossible for class distinctions and class
struggles to continue if the exploited and oppressed class, the proletariat, succeeds in emancipating
itself. In other words, the cycle of class struggles which began with the dissolution of rude,
tribal communism, and the rise of private property, ends with the passing of private property
in the means of social existence and the rise of Socialism. The proletariat in emancipating
itself destroys all the conditions of class rule.

II

As we have already seen, slavery is historically the first system of class division which presents
itself. Some ingenious writers have endeavored to trace the origin of slavery to the institution
of the family, the children being the first slaves. It is fairly certain, however, that slavery
originated in conquest. When a tribe was conquered and enslaved by some more powerful tribe,
all the members of the vanquished tribe sunk to one common level of servility and degradation.
Their exploitation as laborers was the principal object of their enslavement, and their labor
admitted of little gradation. It is easy to see the fundamental class antagonisms which characterized
slavery. Has there been no uprisings of the slaves, no active and conscious struggle against
their masters, the antagonism of interests between them and their masters would be none the
less apparent. But the overthrow of slavery was not the result of the rebellions and struggles
of the slaves. While these undoubtedly helped, the principal factors in the overthrow of chattel
slavery as the economic foundation of society were the disintegration of the system to the
point of bankruptcy, and the rise of a new, and sometimes, as in the case of Rome, alien ruling
class.

The class divisions of feudal society are not less obvious than those of chattel slavery. The
main division, the widest gulf, divided the feudal lord and the serf. Often as brutally ill-treated
as their slave-forefathers had been, the feudal serfs from time to time made abortive struggles.
The class distinctions of feudalism were constant, but the struggles between the lords and
the serfs were sporadic, and of comparatively little moment, just as the risings of their slave
forefathers had been. But alongside of the feudal estate there existed another class, the free
handicraftsmen and peasants, the former organized into powerful guilds. It was this class,
and not the serf class, which was destined to challenge the rule of the feudal nobility, and
wage war upon it. As the feudal class was a landed class, so the class represented by the guilds
became a moneyed and commercial class, the pioneers of our modern capitalist class. As Mr.
Brooks Adams[117] has shown very clearly, it was this moneyed, commercial class, which gave
to the king the instrument for weakening and finally overthrowing feudalism. It was this class
which built up the cities and towns from which was drawn the revenue for the maintenance of
a standing army, thus liberating the king from his dependence upon the feudal lords. The capitalist
class triumphed over the feudal nobility, and its interests became in their turn the dominant
interests in society. Capitalism in its development effectually destroyed all those institutions
of feudalism which obstructed its progress, leaving only those which were innocuous and safely
to be ignored.

In capitalist society, the main class division is that which separates the employing, wage-paying
class from the employed, wage-receiving class. Notwithstanding all the elaborate arguments
made to prove the contrary, the frequently heard myth that the interests of Capital and Labor
are identical, and the existence of pacificatory associations based upon that myth, there is
no fact in the whole range of social phenomena more self-evident than the existence of an inherent,
fundamental antagonism in the relationship of employer and employee. As individuals, in all
other relations, they may have a commonality of interests, but as employer and employee they
are fundamentally and necessarily opposed. They may belong to the same church, and so have
religious interests in common; they may have common racial interests, as, for instance, if
negroes, in protecting themselves against the attacks made in a book like The Clansman, or,
if Jews, in opposing anti-Semitic movements; as citizens they may have the same civic interests,
be equally opposed to graft in the city government, or equally interested in the adoption of
wise sanitary precautions against epidemics. They may even have a common industrial interest
in the general sense that they may be equally interested in the development of the industry
in which they are engaged, and fear, equally, the results of a depression in trade. But their
special interests as employer and employee are antithetical.

It cannot be denied that, in certain circumstances, these other interests may become so accentuated
that the class antagonisms are momentarily lost sight of, or completely dwarfed in importance;
nor is such a denial implied in the Socialist theory. It is not difficult to see that in the
case of a general uprising against the members of their race, in which their lives are imperiled,
Jewish employers and employees may forget their class interests and remember only that they
are Jews. So with negroes and other oppressed races. The economic interests of the class may
be engulfed in the solidarity of the race. It is not difficult, either, to see that in the
presence of some great common danger or calamity, class interests may likewise be completely
subordinated. An admirable example of this occurred at the time of the San Francisco earthquake
and fire. The enormous demand for labor occasioned by that disaster practically enabled the
artisans, most of whom were organized into unions, to demand and obtain almost fabulous wages.
But there was no thought of taking advantage of the calamity. On the contrary, the unions immediately
announced that they would make no attempt to do so. Not only that, but they voluntarily waived
rules which in normal times they would have insisted upon with all their powers. The temporary
overshadowing of the economic interests of classes by other special interests which have been
thrust into special prominence, is not, however, evidence that these class interests do not
prevail in normal times. Recognition of this fact effectually destroys much criticism of the
theory.

The interest of the wage-worker, as wage-worker, is to receive the largest wage possible for
the least number of hours spent in labor. The interest of the employer, as employer, on the
other hand, is to secure from the worker as many hours of service, as much labor power, as
possible for the lowest wage which the worker can be induced to accept. The workers employed
in a factory may be divided by a hundred different forces. They may be divided by racial differences,
for instance; but while preserving these differences in a large measure, they will tend to
unite upon the basis of their economic interests. Some of the great labor unions, notably the
United Mine Workers,[118] afford remarkable illustrations of this fact. If the difference of
religious interests leads to division, the same unanimity of economic interests will sooner
or later be developed. No impartial investigator who studies the influence of a great labor
union which includes in its membership workers of various nationalities and adherents of various
religious creeds, can fail to observe the fact that the community of economic interests which
unites them is a powerful factor making for their amalgamation into a harmonious civic whole.

With the employers it is the same. They, too, may be divided by a hundred forces; the competition
among them may be keen and fierce, but common economic interests will tend to unite them against
the organizations of the workers they employ. Racial, religious, social, and other divisions
and distinctions, may be maintained, but they will, in general, unite for the protection and
furtherance of their common economic interests.

So much, indeed, belongs to the very primer stage of economic theory. Adam Smith is rather
out of fashion nowadays, but there is still much in "The Wealth of Nations" which will repay
our attention. Were it essential to our present purpose, it would be easy to quote from all
the great economists in support of the Socialist claim that the interests of the capitalist
and those of the laborer are irreconcilably opposed. That individual workers and employers
will be found who do not recognize their class interests is true, but that fact by no means
invalidates the contention that, in general, men will recognize and unite upon a basis of common
class interests. In both classes are to be found individuals who attach greater importance
to the preservation of racial, religious, or social, than to economic, interests. But because
the economic interest is fundamental, involving the very basis of life, the question of food,
clothing, shelter, and comfort, these individuals are and must be exceptions to the general
rule. Workers sink their racial and religious differences and unite to secure better wages,
a reduction of their hours of labor, and better conditions in general. Employers, similarly,
unite to oppose whatever may threaten their class interests, without regard to other relationships.
The Gentile who is himself an anti-Semite has no qualms of conscience about employing Jewish
workmen, at low wages, to compete with Gentile workers; he does not object to joining with
Jewish employers in an Employers' Association, if thereby his economic interests may be safeguarded.
And the Jewish employer, likewise, has no objection to joining with the Gentile employer for
mutual protection, or to the employment of Gentile workers to fill the places of his employees,
members of his own race, who have gone out on strike for higher wages.

III

The class struggle, therefore, presents itself in the present stage of social development,
in capitalist countries, as a conflict between the wage-paying and the wage-paid classes. That
is the dominating and all-absorbing conflict of the industrial age in which we live. True,
there are other class interests more or less involved. This is especially true in the United
States with its enormous agricultural industry, to which the description of the industrial
conflict cannot be applied. There are the indefinite, inchoate, vague, and uncertain interests
of that large, so-called middle class, composed of farmers, retailers, professional workers,
and so on. The interests of this large class are not, and cannot be, as definitely defined.
They vacillate, conforming now to the interest of the wage-workers, now to the interest of
the employers. Thus the farmer may oppose an increase in the wages of farm laborers, because
that touches him directly as an employer. His relation to the farm laborer is substantially
that of the capitalist to the city worker, and his attitude upon that question is the attitude
of the capitalist class as a whole. At the same time, he may heartily favor an increase of
wages for miners, carpenters, bricklayers, shoemakers, printers, painters, factory workers,
and non-agricultural laborers in general, for the reason that while a general rise of wages,
resulting in a general rise of prices, will affect him slightly as a consumer, and compel him
to pay more for what he buys, it will benefit him much more as a seller of the products of
his farm. In short, consciously very often, but unconsciously oftener still, personal or class
interests control our thoughts, opinions, beliefs, and actions.

It is impossible with the data at our disposal at present to make such an analysis of our population
as will enable us to determine the particular class interests of the various groups. Of the
twenty-four million men and boys engaged in industry there are some six million farmers and
tenants; three million seven hundred and fifty thousand farm laborers; eleven million mechanics,
laborers, clerks, and servants; one million five hundred thousand professional workers, agents,
and the like; and about two million employers, large and small. Accurately to place each of
these groups is out of the question until such time as we have a much more detailed study of
our economic life than has yet been attempted. We may, however, roughly relate some of the groups.

First: It is evident that the interests of the eleven million wage-earners are, as a whole,
opposed to those of the employing class. There may be exceptions, as in the case of those whose
very occupation as confidential agents of the capitalists, overseers, and the like, places
them outside of the sphere of working-class interests. They may not receive a salary much above
the wage of the mechanic, yet their function is such as to place them psychologically with
the capitalists rather than with the workers. It is also evident that, while their interests
may be demonstrably antagonistic to those of the employers, not all of the wage-earners will
be conscious of that fact. The consciousness of class interests develops slowly among rural
and isolated workers, especially as between the small employer and his employee. And even when
there is the consciousness of antagonistic interests among these workers it is very difficult
for them actively to express it. Hence they cannot play an important part in the actual conflict
of classes.

Second: We may safely place the three million seven hundred and fifty thousand farm laborers,
as regards their economic interests, with the general mass of wage-workers, with one important
qualification. So far as they are in the actual relation of wage-paid laborers, hired by the
month, week, or day, and bearing no other relation to their employers, they belong, in their
economic interests, to the proletariat. But there are many farm laborers included in our enumeration
who do not hold that relation to their employers. They are the sons of the farmers themselves,
expecting to assume their fathers' positions, and their position as wage-paid laborers is largely
nominal and fictitious. How many such there are it is impossible to ascertain with anything
like certainty, and we can only say, therefore, that the position of the class, as such, must
be determined without including these. But while this class has economic interests similar
to those of the industrial proletariat, because of their isolation and scattered position,
and because of the personal relations which they bear to their employers--farmer and laborer
often working side by side, equally hard, and not infrequently having approximately the same
standards of living--these cannot, to any very great extent, become an active factor in the
class conflict in the same sense as the industrial wage-workers can, by engaging in strikes,
boycotts, and other manifestations of the class war. Still, they may, and in fact do, play
an important rôle in the political aspects of the struggle. Let a political movement of the
proletariat arise and it will be found that these agricultural laborers will join it not less
enthusiastically than their fellows from the factories in the cities. It would probably surprise
most thoughtful Americans if they could see the organization maps in the offices of the Socialist
Party of the United States, dotted with little red-capped pins denoting local organizations
of the party. These are quite as common in the agricultural states as in the industrial states.
So, too, in Germany. The movement is politically nearly as strong in the agrarian districts
as elsewhere. This is a fact of vital significance, one which must not be lost sight of in
studying the progress of Socialism in America.

Third: Of the exact position of the remaining groups it is very difficult to speak with anything
like assurance. In an earlier chapter we have noticed the persistence of the small farm in
America, and the fact that a class of small farmers forms a very important part of our population.
As already observed, the economic condition of the small farmer is very often little, if any,
superior to that of the laborers he employs. Elsewhere, I have shown that the actual income
of the small farmer is not infrequently less than that of the hired laborer.[120] This is just
as true of the small dealer, and the small manufacturer. But mere poverty of income, companionship
in misery, the sharing of an equally poor existence, does not suffice to place the farmer in
the proletarian class, as many Socialist writers have shown.[121] The small farmers constitute
a distinct class. They are not, as the small dealers and manufacturers are, mere remnants of
a disappearing class. The class is a permanent one, apparently, as much so as the class of
industrial wage-workers. As a class it is just as essential to agricultural production as the
industrial proletariat is essential to manufacture. It is thus a class analogous to the industrial
proletariat, and Kautsky has well said that the small farmer is the "proletariat of the country."
The exploitation of the small farmer is not direct, like that of the wage-worker by his employer,
but indirect, through the great capitalist trusts and railroads. It also happens that these
derive their chief income from the direct exploitation of the wage-workers, so that the small
farmer and the wage-worker in the city factory have common exploiters. As they become conscious
of this, the two classes will tend to unite their forces in the one sphere where such unity
of action is possible, the sphere of political action.

This is also true, in some degree at least, of a considerable fraction of the one million five
hundred thousand workers included in the professional and agent classes, and of the two million
employers, the small dealers and manufacturers being included in this enumeration. That there
is such a considerable fraction of each of these two classes whose interests lead them to make
common cause with the proletariat is not at all a matter of theory or speculation, but of experience.
These classes are represented very largely in the membership of the Socialist parties of this
country and of Europe.

IV

Although it is sometimes so interpreted, the theory that classes are based upon commonality
of interests does not imply that men are never actuated by other than selfish motives; that
a sordid materialism is the only motive force at work in the world. Marx and Engels carefully
avoided the use of the word interests in such manner as to suggest that material interests
control the course of history. They invariably used the term economic conditions, and the careful
reader will not fail to perceive that although economic conditions produce interests which
form the basis of class divisions, it is not unusual for men to act contrary to their personal
interests as a result of existing conditions. In general, class interests and personal interests
coincide, but there are certainly occasions when they conflict. Many an employer, having no
quarrel with his employees and confident that he will be the loser thereby, joins in a fight
upon labor unions because he is conscious that the interests of his class are involved. In
a similar way, workingmen enter upon sympathetic strikes, consciously, at an immediate loss
to themselves, because they place class loyalty before personal gain. It is significant of
class feeling and temper that when employers act in this manner, and lock out employees with
whom they have no trouble, simply to help other employers to win their battles, they are lauded
by the very newspapers which denounce the workers when they adopt a like policy.

It is also true that there are individuals in both classes who never become conscious of their
class interests, and steadfastly refuse to join with the members of their class. The workingman
who refuses to join a union, or who "scabs" when his fellow-workers go out on strike, may act
from ignorance or from sheer self-interest and greed. His action may be due to his placing
personal interest before the larger interest of his class, or from being too shortsighted to
see that ultimately his own interests and those of his class must merge. Many an employer,
likewise, may refuse to join in any concerted action of his class for either of these reasons,
or he may even rise superior to his class and personal interests and support the workers because
he believes in the justness of their cause, realizing perfectly well that their gain means
loss to him or to his class. This ought to be a sufficient answer to those shallow critics
who think that they dispose of the class struggle theory of modern Socialism by enumerating
those of its leading exponents who do not belong to the proletariat.

The influence of class environment upon men's beliefs and ideals is a subject which our most
voluminous ethicists have scarcely touched upon as yet. It is a commonplace saying that each
age has its own standards of right and wrong, but little effort has been made, if we except
the Socialists, to trace this fact to its source, to the economic conditions prevailing in
the different ages.[122] Still less effort has been made to account for the different standards
held by the different social classes at the same time, and by which each class judges the others.
In our own day the idea of slavery is generally held in abhorrence. There was a time, however,
when it was almost universally looked upon as a divine institution, alike by slaveholder and
slave. It is simply impossible to account for this complete revolution of feeling upon any
other hypothesis than that slave-labor then seemed absolutely essential to the life of the
world. The slave lords of antiquity, and, more recently, the Southern slaveholders in our own
country, all believed that slavery was eternally right. When the slaves took an opposite view
and rebelled, they were believed to be in rebellion against God and nature. The Church represented
the same view just as vigorously as it now opposes it. The slave owners who held slavery to
be a divine institution, and the priests and ministers who supported them, were just as honest
and sincere in their belief as we are in holding antagonistic beliefs to-day.

What was accounted a virtue in the slave was accounted a vice in the slaveholder. Cowardice
and a cringing humility were not regarded as faults in a slave. On the contrary, they were
the stock virtues of the pattern slave and added to the estimation in which he was held, just
as similar traits are valued in personal servants--butlers, waiters, valets, footmen, and other
flunkies--in our own day. But similar traits in the slaveholder, or the "gentleman" of to-day,
would be regarded as terrible faults. As Mr. Algernon Lee very tersely puts it, "The slave
was not a slave because of his slavish ideals and beliefs; the slave was slavish in his ideals
and beliefs because he lived the life of a slave."[123]

In the industrial world of to-day we find a similar divergence of ethical standards. What the
laborers regard as wrong, the employers regard as absolutely and immutably right. The actions
of the workers in forming unions and compelling unwilling members of their own class to join
them, even resorting to the bitter expedient of striking against them with a view to starving
them into submission, seem terribly unjust to the employers and the class to which the employers
belong. To the workers themselves, on the other hand, such actions have all the sanctions of
conscience. Similarly, many actions of the employers, in which they themselves see no wrong,
seem almost incomprehensibly wicked to the workers.

Leaving aside the wholesale fraud of our ordinary commercial advertisements, the shameful adulteration
of goods, and a multitude of other such nefarious practices, it is at once interesting and
instructive to compare the employers' denunciations of "the outrageous infringement of personal
liberty," when the "oppressor" is a labor union, with some of their everyday practices. The
same employers who loudly, and, let it be said, quite sincerely, condemn the members of a union
who endeavor to bring about the discharge of a fellow-worker because he declines to join their
organization, have no scruples of conscience about discharging a worker simply because he belongs
to a union, and so effectually "blacklisting" him that it becomes almost or quite impossible
for him to obtain employment at his trade elsewhere. They do not hesitate to do this secretly,
conspiring against the very life of the worker. While loudly declaiming against the "conspiracy"
of the workers to raise wages, they see no wrong in an "agreement" of manufacturers or mine
owners to reduce wages. If the members of a labor union should break the law, especially if
they should commit an act of violence during a strike, the organs of capitalist opinion teem
with denunciation, but there is no breath of condemnation for the outrages committed by employers
or their agents against union men and their families.

During the great anthracite coal strike of 1903, and again during the disturbances in Colorado
in 1904, it was evident to every fair-minded observer that the mine owners were at least quite
as lawless as the strikers.[124] But there was hardly a scintilla of adverse comment upon the
mine owners' lawlessness in the organs of capitalist opinion, while they poured forth torrents
of righteous indignation at the lawlessness of the miners. When labor leaders, like the late
Sam Parks, for example, are accused of extortion and receiving bribes, the employers and their
retainers, through pulpit, press, and every other avenue of public opinion, denounce the culprit,
the bribe taker, in unmeasured terms--but the bribe giver is excused, or, at worst, only lightly
criticised. These are but a few common illustrations of class conscience. Any careful observer
will be able to add almost indefinitely to the number.

It would be easy to compile a catalogue of such examples as these from the history of the past
few years sufficient to convince the most skeptical that class interests do produce a class
conscience. Mr. Ghent aptly expresses a profound truth when he says: "There is a spiritual
alchemy which transmutes the base metal of self-interest into the gold of conscience; the transmutation
is real, and the resulting frame of mind is not hypocrisy, but conscience. It is a class conscience,
and therefore partial and imperfect, having little to do with absolute ethics. But partial
and imperfect as it is, it is generally sincere."[125] No better test of the truth of this
can be made than by reading carefully for a few weeks the comments of half a dozen representative
capitalist newspapers, and of an equal number of representative labor papers, upon current
events. The antithetical nature of their judgments of men and events demonstrates the existence
of a distinct class conscience. It cannot be interpreted in any other way.

V

A great many people, while admitting the important rôle class struggles have played in the
history of the race, strenuously deny the existence of classes in the United States. They freely
admit the class divisions and struggles of the Old World, but deny that a similar class antagonism
exists in this country; they fondly believe the United States to be a glorious exception to
the rule, and regard the claim that classes exist here as falsehood and treason. The Socialists
are forever being accused of seeking to apply to American life judgments based upon European
facts and conditions. It is easy to visualize the class divisions of monarchical countries,
where there are hereditary ruling classes--even though these are only nominally the ruling
classes in most cases--fixed by law. But it is not so easy to recognize the fact that, even
in these countries, the power is held by the financial and industrial lords, and not by the
kings and their titular nobility. The absence of a hereditary, titular ruling class serves
to hide from many people the real class divisions existing in this country.

Nevertheless, there is a perceptible growth of uneasiness and unrest; a widening and deepening
conviction that while we may retain the outward forms of democracy, and shout its shibboleths
with patriotic fervor, its essentials are lacking. The feeling spreads, even in the most conservative
circles, that we are developing, or have already developed, a distinct ruling class. The anomaly
of a ruling class without legal sanction or titular prestige has seized upon the popular mind;
titles have been created for our great "untitled nobility"--mock titles which have speedily
assumed a serious import and meaning. Our financial "Kings," industrial "Lords," "Barons,"
and so on, have received their crowns and patents of nobility from the populace. But

     "Man is more than constitutions,"

and there are other laws than those formulated in senates and recorded in statute books. The
vast concentration of industry and wealth, resulting in immense fortunes on the one hand, and
terrible poverty on the other, has separated the two classes by a chasm as deep and wide as
ever yawned between czar and moujik, kaiser and vagrant, prince and pauper, feudal baron and
serf. The immensity of the power and wealth thus concentrated into the hands of the few, to
be inherited by their sons and daughters, tends to establish this class division hereditarily.
Heretofore, passage from the lower class to the class above has been comparatively easy, and
it has blinded people to the existing class antagonisms, though, as Mr. Ghent justly observes,
it should no more be taken to disprove the existence of classes than the fact that so many
thousands of Germans come to this country to settle is taken to disprove the existence of the
German Empire.[127] The stereotyping of classes is undeniable. That a few men pass from one
class to another is no disproof of this. The classes exist and the tendency is for them to
remain permanently fixed, as a whole, in our social life.

But passage from the lower class to the upper tends to become, if not absolutely impossible
and unthinkable, at least practically impossible, and as difficult and rare as the transition
from pauperism to princedom in the Old World is. A romantic European princess may marry a penurious
coachman, and so provide the world with a nine days' sensation, but such cases are no rarer
in the royal courts of Europe than in our own plutoaristocratic court circles. Has there ever
been a king in modern times with anything like the power of Mr. Rockefeller? Is any feature
of royal recognition withheld from Mr. Morgan when he goes abroad in state, an uncrowned king,
fraternizing with crowned but envious fellow-kings? The existence of classes in America to-day
is as evident as the existence of America itself.

VI

Antagonisms of class interests have existed from the very beginning of civilization, though
not always recognized. It is only the consciousness of their existence, and the struggle which
results from that consciousness, that are new. As we suddenly become aware of the pain and
ravages of disease, when we have not felt or heeded its premonitory symptoms, so, having neglected
the fundamental class division of society, the bitterness of the strife resulting therefrom
shocks and alarms us. So long as it is possible for the stronger and more ambitious members
of an inferior class to rise out of that class and join the ranks of a superior class, so long
will the struggle which ensues as the natural outgrowth of opposing interests be postponed.

Until quite recently, in the United States, this has been possible. Transition from the status
of wage-worker to that of capitalist has been easy. But with the era of concentration and the
immense capitals required for industrial enterprise, and the exhaustion of our supply of free
land, these transitions become fewer and more difficult, and class lines tend to become permanently
fixed. The stronger and more ambitious members of the lower class, finding it impossible to
rise into the class above, thus become impressed with a consciousness of their class status.
The average worker no longer dreams of himself becoming an employer after a few years of industry
and thrift. The ambitious and aggressive few no longer look with the contempt of the strong
for the weak upon their less aggressive fellow-workers, but become leaders, preachers of a
significant and admittedly dangerous gospel of class consciousness.

President Roosevelt has assailed the preachers of class consciousness with all the energy of
a confirmed moralizer. It is evident, however, that he has never taken the trouble to study
either the preachers or their gospel. Never in his utterances has there been any hint given
of a recognition of the fact that there could be no preaching of class consciousness had there
been no classes. Never has he manifested the faintest recognition of the existence of conditions
which develop classes, out of which the class consciousness of the propagandists springs naturally.
He does not see that there is danger only when the preachers are not wise enough, nor sufficiently
educated to see their position in its historical perspective; when in blind revolt they engender
class hatred, personal hatred of the capitalist by the worker. But when there is the historical
perspective, wisdom to see that economic conditions develop slowly, and that the capitalist
is no more responsible for conditions than the worker, there is not only no personal hatred
for the capitalist engendered, but, more important still, the workers get a new view of the
relationship of the classes, and their efforts are directed to the bringing about of peaceful
change.

The Socialists, accused as they are of seeking to stir up hatred and strife, by placing the
class struggle in its proper light, as one of the great social dynamic forces, have done and
are doing more to allay hatred and bitterness of feeling, and to save the world from the red
curse of anarchistic vengeance, than all the Rooseveltian preaching in which thousands of venders
of moral platitudes are engaged. The Socialist movement is vastly more powerful as a force
against Anarchism, in its violent manifestations, than any other agency in the world. Wherever,
as in Germany, the Socialist movement is strong, Anarchism is impotent and weak. The reason
for this is the very obvious one here given. Class divisions are not created by Socialists,
but developed in the womb of economic conditions. Class consciousness is not something which
Socialism has developed. Before there was a Socialist movement, in the days of Luddite attacks
upon machinery, and Captain Swing's rick-burners, there was class consciousness expressed in
class revolt. Modern Socialism simply takes the class consciousness of the worker and educates
it to see the futility of machine-destroying, or other foolish and abortive attacks upon capitalists
and their property, and organizes it into a political movement for the peaceful transformation
of society.

VII

Nowhere in the world, at any time in its history, has the antagonism of classes been more evident
than in the United States at the present time. With an average of over a thousand strikes a
year,[128] some of them involving, directly, tens of thousands of producers, a few capitalists,
and millions of noncombatants, consumers; with strikes like this, boycotts, lockouts, injunctions,
and all the other incidents of organized class strife reported daily by the newspapers, denials
of the existence of classes, or of the struggle between them, are manifestly absurd. We have,
on the one hand, organizations of workers, labor unions, with a membership of something over
two million in the United States; one organization alone, the American Federation of Labor,
having an affiliated membership of one million seven hundred thousand. On the other hand, we
have organizations of employers, formed for the expressed purpose of fighting the labor unions,
of which the National Association of Manufacturers is the most perfect type yet evolved.

While the leaders on both sides frequently deny that their organizations betoken the existence
of a far-reaching fundamental class conflict, and, through ostensibly pacificatory organizations
like the National Civic Federation, proclaim the "essential identity of interests between capital
and labor"; while an intelligent and earnest labor leader like Mr. John Mitchell joins with
an astute capitalist leader like the late Senator Marcus A. Hanna in declaring that "there
is no necessary hostility between labor and capital," that there is no "necessary, fundamental
antagonism between the laborer and the capitalist,"[129] a brief study of the constitutions
of these class organizations, and their published reports, in conjunction with the history
of the labor struggle in the United States, in which the names of Homestead, Hazelton, Coeur
d'Alene and Cripple Creek appear in bloody letters, will show these denials to be the offspring
of hypocrisy or delusion. If this much-talked-of unity of interests is anything but a stupid
fiction, the great and ever increasing strife is only a matter of mutual misunderstanding.
All that is necessary to secure permanent peace is to remove that misunderstanding. If we believe
this, it is a sad commentary upon human limitations, upon man's failure to understand his own
life, that not a single person on either side has arisen with sufficient intelligence and breadth
of vision to state the relations of the two classes with clarity and force enough to accomplish
that end, to make them understand each other.

Let us get down to fundamental principles.[130] Why do men organize into unions? Why was the
first union started? Why do men pay out of their hard-earned wages to support unions now? The
first union was not started because the men who started it did not understand their employers,
or because they were misunderstood by their employers. The explanation involves a deeper insight
into things than that. When the individual workingman, feeling that from the labor of himself
and his fellows came the wealth and luxury of his employer, demanded higher wages, a reduction
of the hours of labor, or better conditions in general, he was met with a reply from the employer--who
understood the workingman's position very well, much better, in fact, than the workingman himself
did--something like this, "If you don't like this job, and my terms, there are plenty of others
outside ready to take your place." The workingman and the employer, then, understood each other
perfectly. The employer understood the position of the worker, that he was dependent upon him,
the employer, for opportunity to earn his bread. The worker understood that so long as the
employer could discharge him and fill his place with another, he was powerless. The combat
between the workers and the masters of their bread has from the first been an unequal one.

Nothing remained for the individual workingman but to join with his fellows in a collective
and united effort. So organizations of workers appeared, and the employers could not treat
the demands for higher wages or other improvements in conditions as lightly as before. The
workers, when they organized, could take advantage of the fact that there were no organizations
of the employers. Every strike added to the ordinary terrors of the competitive struggle for
the employers. The manufacturer whose men threatened to strike often surrendered because he
feared most of all that his trade, in the event of a suspension of work, would be snatched
by his rival in business. So, by playing upon the inherent weakness of the competitive system
as it affected the employers, the workers gained many substantial advantages. There is no doubt
whatsoever that under these conditions the wage-workers got better wages, better working conditions,
and a reduction in the hours of labor. It was in many ways the golden age of trade unionism.
But there was an important limitation of the workers' power--the unions could not absorb the
man outside; they could not provide all the workers with employment. That is an essential condition
of capitalist industry, there is always the "reserve army of the unemployed," to use the expressive
phrase of Friederich Engels. Rare indeed are the times when all the available workers in any
industry are employed, and the time has probably never yet been when all the available workers
in all industries were employed.

Notwithstanding this important limitation of power, it is incontrovertible that the workers
were benefited by their organization. But only for a time. There came a time when the employers
began to organize unions also. That they called their organizations by other and high-sounding
names does not alter the fact that they were in reality unions formed to combat the unions
of the workers. Every employers' association is, in reality, a union of the men who employ
labor against the unions of the men they employ. When the organized workers went to individual,
unorganized employers, who feared their rivals more than they feared the workers, or, rather,
who feared the workers most of all because rivals waited to snatch their trade, a strike making
their employees allies with their competitors, the employers were easily defeated. The workers
could play one employer against another employer with constant success. But when the employers
also organized, it was different. Then the individual employer, freed from his worst terrors,
could say, "Do your worst. I, too, am in an organization." Then it became a battle betwixt
organized capital and organized labor. When the workers went out on strike in one shop or factory,
depending upon their brother unionists employed in other shops or factories, the employers
of these latter locked them out, thus cutting off the financial support of the strikers. In
other cases, when the workers in one place went out on strike, the employer got his work done
through other employers, by the very fellow-members upon whom the strikers were depending for
support. Thus the workers were compelled to face this dilemma, either to withdraw these men,
thus cutting off their financial supplies, or to be beaten by their own members.

Under these changed conditions, the workers were beaten time after time. It was a case of the
worker's cupboard against the master's warehouse, purse against bank account, poverty against
wealth. The workers' chances are slight in such a combat! A strike means that the employers
on one side, and the workers on the other, seek to force each other to surrender by waiting
patiently to see who first feels the pinch of hardship and poverty. Employers and employees
determine to play the waiting game. Each waits patiently in the hope that the other will weaken.
At last one--most often the workers'--side weakens and gives up the struggle. When the workers
are thus beaten in a strike, they are not convinced that their demands are unreasonable or
unjust; they are simply beaten because their resources are too small to enable them to stand
the struggle.

When the master class, the masters of jobs and bread, organized their forces, they set narrow
and sharp boundaries to the power of labor organizations. Henceforth the chances of victory
were overwhelmingly on the side of the employers. The workers learned by bitter and costly
experience that they could not play the interests of individual employers against other employers'
interests. Meantime, too, they have learned that they are not only exploited as producers,
but also as buyers, as consumers. For long, dominated by economic theories, the Socialists
refused to recognize this aspect of the labor struggle, though the workers felt it strongly
enough. They set their fine-spun theories against the facts of life. Their contention was that
wages being determined by the cost of living, it mattered nothing how much or how little the
workers got in wages, the cost of living and wages adjusted themselves to each other. But in
actual experience the workers found that when prices fall, wages are quick to follow, whereas
when prices soar high, wages are slow to follow. Wages climb with leaden feet when prices soar
with eagle wings. Because the workers are consumers, almost to the last penny of their incomes,
having to spend practically every penny earned, that form of exploitation becomes a serious matter.

But against this exploitation the unions have ever been absolutely powerless. Workingmen have
never made any very serious attempt to protect the purchasing capacity of their wages, notwithstanding
its tremendous importance.[131] The result has been that not a few of the "victories" so dearly
won by trade union action have turned out to be hollow mockeries. When better wages have been
secured, prices have often gone up, most often, in fact, so that the net result has been little
to the advantage of the workers. In many cases, where the advance in wages applied only to
a restricted number of trades, the advance in prices becoming general, the total result has
been against the working class as a whole, and little or nothing to the advantage of the few
who received the advance in immediate wages. At this point, the need is felt of a social revolution,
not a violent revolution, be it understood, but a comprehensive social change which will give
to the workers the control of the implements of labor, and also of the product of their labor.
In other words, the demand arises for independent, working-class action, aiming at the socialization
of the means of production and the product.

VIII

A line of cleavage thus presents itself between those, on the one hand, who would continue
the old methods of economic warfare, together with the advocates of physical force, and, on
the other hand, the advocates of united political action by the working class, consciously
directed toward the socialization of industry and its products. The measure of the crystallization
of this latter force is represented by the strength of the political Socialist movement. Whoever
has studied the labor movement during the past few years must have realized that there is a
tremendous drift of sentiment in favor of that policy in the labor unions of the country. The
clamor for political action in the labor unions presages an enormous advance of the political
Socialist movement during the next few years.

The struggle between the capitalist and working classes must become a political issue, the
supreme political issue. This must result, not only because the collective ownership of property
can best be brought about by political methods, but also because the capitalists themselves
have taken the industrial struggle into the political arena to suit themselves; and when the
workers realize the issue and accept it, the capitalists will not be able to resist them. One
is reminded of the saying of Marx that capitalism produces its own gravediggers. In taking
the industrial issue into the political sphere, to suit their own immediate advantages, the
capitalists were destined to reveal to the workers, sooner or later, their power and opportunity.

Realizing that all the forces of government are on their side, the legislative, judicial, and
executive powers being controlled by their own class, the employers have made the fight against
labor political as well as economic in its character. When the workers have gone on strike
and the employers have not cared to play the "waiting game," choosing rather to avail themselves
of the great reserve army of unemployed workers outside, the natural resentment of the strikers,
finding themselves in danger of being beaten by members of their own class, has led to violence
which has been remorselessly suppressed by all the police and military forces at the command
of the government. In many instances, the employers have purposely provoked striking workers
to violence, and then called upon the government to crush the revolt thus made. Workers have
been shot down at the shambles in almost every state, no matter which political party has been
in power. Nor have these forces of our class government been used merely to punish lawless
union men and women on strike, to uphold the "sacred majesty of the law," as the hypocritical
phrase goes. They have been also used to deny strikers the rights which belonged to them, and
to protect capitalists and their agents in breaking the laws. No one can read with anything
like an impartial spirit the records of the miners' strike in the Coeur d'Alene mine, Idaho,
or the labor disturbances in the state of Colorado from 1880 to 1905 and dispute this assertion.

Most important of all has been the powerful opposition of the makers and interpreters of the
law. A body of class legislation, in the interests of the employing class, has been created,
while the workers have begged in vain for protective legislation. In no country of the world
have the interests of the workers been so neglected as in the United States. There is practically
no such thing as employers' liability for accidents to workers; no legislation worthy of mention
relating to occupations which have been classified as "dangerous" in most industrial countries;
women workers are sadly neglected. Whenever a law of distinct advantage to the workers in their
struggle has been passed, a servile judiciary has been ready to render it null and void by
declaring it to be unconstitutional. No more powerful blows have ever been directed against
the workers than by the judiciary. Injunctions have been issued, robbing the workers of the
most elemental rights of manhood and citizenship. They have forbidden things which no law forbids,
and even things which the Constitution and statute law declare to be legal.

Mr. John Mitchell refers to this subject, in strong but not too strong terms. "No weapon,"
he says, "has been used with such disastrous effect against trade unions as the injunction
in labor disputes. By means of it, trade unionists have been prohibited under severe penalties
from doing what they had a legal right to do, and have been specifically directed to do what
they had a legal right not to do. It is difficult to speak in measured tones or moderate language
of the savagery and venom with which unions have been assailed by the injunction, and to the
working classes, as to all fair-minded men, it seems little less than a crime to condone or
tolerate it."[132] This is strong language, but who shall say that it is too strong when we
remember the many injunctions which have been hurled at organized labor since the famous Debs
case brought this weapon into general use?

In this celebrated case, which grew out of the Pullman strike, in 1894, Eugene V. Debs, president
of the American Railway Union, was arrested and arraigned on indictments of obstructing the
mails and interstate commerce. Although arraigned, he was not tried, the case being abandoned,
despite his demands for a trial. Realizing that it had no sort of evidence upon which a jury
might be hoped to convict, a new way was found. Debs and his officers were enjoined in a famous
"blanket" injunction directed against Debs and all other officials of the union, and "all persons
whomsoever." For an alleged violation of that injunction, Judge Woods, without trial by jury,
sentenced Debs to six months' imprisonment and his associates to three months'. The animus
and class bias of the whole proceeding may be judged from the fact that President Cleveland
selected to represent the United States Government, at Chicago, Mr. Edwin Walker, general counsel
at that very time for the General Managers' Association, representing the twenty-four railroads
centering or terminating in Chicago. And these railroads were operating in violation of the
Sherman Anti-Trust Law at the time.[133]

In 1899 an injunction was issued out of the United States Circuit Court of West Virginia against
"John Smith and others," without naming the "others," in the interest of the Wheeling Railway
Company. Two men, neither of them being John Smith, nor found to be the agent of "John Smith
and others," were jailed for contempt of court![134] In 1900 members of the International Cigarmakers'
Union, in New York City, were enjoined by Justice Freeman, in the Supreme Court, from even
approaching their former employers for the purpose of attempting to arrange a peaceable settlement!
The cigarmakers were further enjoined from publishing their grievances, or in any manner making
their case known to the public, if the tendency of that should be to vex the plaintiffs or
make them uneasy; from trying, even in a peaceful way, in any place in the city, even in the
privacy of a man's own home, to persuade a new employee that he ought to sympathize with the
union cause sufficiently to refuse to work for unjust employers; and, finally, the union was
forbidden to pay money to its striking members to support them and their families. In the great
steel strike of 1901, the members of the Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers
were enjoined from peaceably discussing the merits of their claim with the men who were at
work, even though the latter might raise no objection. In Pennsylvania, in the case of the
York Manufacturing Company vs. Obedick, it was held that workmen had "no legal right" to persuade
or induce other workmen to quit, or not to accept, employment.[135] In the strike of the members
of the International Typographical Union against the Buffalo Express, the strikers were enjoined
from discussing the strike, or talking about the paper in any way which might be construed
as being against the paper. If one of the strikers advised a friend not to buy a "scab" paper,
he was liable under the terms of that injunction to imprisonment for contempt of court. The
members of the same union were, in the case of the Sun Printing and Publishing Company vs.
Delaney and others, enjoined by Justice Bookstaver, in the Supreme Court of New York, from
publishing their side of the controversy with the Sun as an argument why persons friendly to
organized labor should not advertise in a paper hostile to it. In 1906 members of the same
union were enjoined by Supreme Court Justice Gildersleeve from "making any requests, giving
any advice, or resorting to any persuasion ... to overcome the free will of any person connected
with the plaintiff [a notorious anti-union publishing company] or its customers as employees
or otherwise."[136]

These are only a few examples of the abuse of the injunction in labor disputes, hundreds of
which have been granted, many of them equally subversive of all sound principles of popular
government. There is probably not another civilized country in which such judicial tyranny
would be tolerated. It is not without significance that in West Virginia, where, as a result
of an outcry against a number of particularly glaring abuses of the power to issue injunctions,
the legislature passed a law limiting the right to issue injunctions, the Supreme Court decided
that the law was unconstitutional, upon the ground that the legislature had no right to attempt
to restrain the courts which were coördinate with itself.

Even more dangerous to organized labor than the injunction is what is popularly known by union
men as "Taff Vale law." Our judges have not been slow to follow the example set by the English
judges in the famous case of the Taff Vale Railway Company against the officers of the Amalgamated
Society of Railway Servants, a powerful labor organization. The decision in that case was most
revolutionary. It compelled the workers to pay damages, to the extent of $115,000, to the railroad
company for losses sustained by the company through a strike of its employees, members of the
defendant union. That decision struck terror into the hearts of British trade unionists. At
last they had to face a mode of attack even more dangerous than the injunction which their
transatlantic brethren had so long been contending against. Taff Vale law could not long be
confined to England. Very soon, our American courts followed the English example. A suit was
instituted against the members of a lodge of the Machinists' Union in Rutland, Vermont, and
the defendants were ordered to pay $2500. A writ was served upon each member and the property
of every one of them attached. Since that time, numerous other decisions of a like nature have
been rendered in various parts of the country. Thus the unions have been assailed in a vital
place, their treasuries. It is manifestly foolish and quite useless for the members of a union
to strike against an employer for any purpose whatever, if the employer is to be able to recover
damages from the union. Taff Vale judge-made law renders the labor union hors de combat at
a stroke.

IX

The immediate effect of the revolutionary judicial decision in England was to arouse the workers
to the necessity for class-conscious political action. The cry went up that the unions must
adopt a policy of independent political action. There is no doubt whatever that the tremendous
advance of the Socialist movement in England during the past few years began as a result of
the attack made upon the funds of the labor unions. From the moment of the Taff Vale decision
the Socialist movement in England took rapid strides. A similar process is going on in this
country, gathering momentum with every injunction against organized labor, every hostile enactment
of legislatures, and every use of the judicial and executive powers to defeat the workers in
their struggle against capitalism. The workers are being educated to political Socialism by
the stern experiences resulting from capitalist rule. Underneath the thin veneer of party differences,
the worker sees the class identity of the great political parties, and cries out, "A plague
on both your houses!" The Socialist argument comes to him with a twofold force: not only does
it show him how he is enslaved and exploited as a producer, but it convinces him that as a
citizen he has it in his power to control the government and make it what he will. He can put
an end to government by injunctions, to the use of police, state, and federal troops to break
strikes, and to the sequestration of union funds by hostile judges. He can, if he so decides,
own and control the government, and, through the government, own and control the essentials
of life: be master of his own labor, his own bread, his own life.

If we take for granted that the universal increase of Socialist sentiment, and the growth of
political Socialism, as measured by its rapidly increasing vote, presage this great triumph
of the working class; that the heretofore despised and oppressed proletariat is, in a not far
distant future, to rule instead of being ruled, the question arises, will the last state be
better than the first? Will society be bettered by the change of masters?

The very form of the question must be denied. It is not a movement for a change of masters.
To regard this struggle of the classes as one of revenge, of exploited masses ready to overturn
the social structure that they may become exploiters instead of exploited, is to misread the
whole movement. The political and economic conquest of society by the working class means the
end of class divisions once and forever. A social democracy, a society in which all things
essential to the common life and well-being are owned and controlled by the people in common,
democratically organized, precludes the existence of class divisions in our present-day economic
and political sense. Profit, through human exploitation, alone has made class divisions possible,
and the Socialist régime will abolish profit. The working class, in emancipating itself, at
the same time makes liberty possible for the whole race of man, and destroys the conditions
of class rule.

FOOTNOTES:

[116] The Communist Manifesto, Kerr edition, page 8.

[117] In Centralization and the Law: Scientific Legal Education, An Illustration, edited by
Melville M. Bigelow.

[118] See, for instance, The Coal Mine Workers, by Frank Julian Warne, Ph.D. (1905).

[119] Adam Smith, The Wealth of Nations, Vol. I, Book I, Chapter VIII.

[120] The Common Sense of Socialism, by John Spargo, page 131 (1908).

[121] See, for instance, The American Farmer, by A. M. Simons, page 130; Agrarfrage, by Karl
Kautsky, pages 305-306.

[122] Mr. Ghent's excellent work, Mass and Class, and Karl Kautsky's Ethics and the Materialistic
Conception of History, may be named as excellent examples of what Socialists have done in this
direction.

[123] In The Worker (New York), March 25, 1905.

[124] Cf., for instance, The Labor History of the Cripple Creek District, by Benjamin McKie
Rastall (1908), and Senate Document No. 122, being A Report on Labor Disturbances in the State
of Colorado, from 1880 to 1904, Inclusive, by Carroll D. Wright (1905), for evidence of this
from sources not specially friendly to the miners.

[125] Mass and Class, page 101.

[126] Message to Congress, January, 1906.

[127] Mass and Class, page 53.

[128] Vide War of the Classes, by Jack London, page 17.

[129] Organized Labor, by John Mitchell, page ix.

[130] The remainder of this chapter is largely reproduced from my little pamphlet, Shall the
Unions go into Politics?

[131] This aspect of the exploitation of the laborers has been brought to the front very dramatically
by the many recent "strikes" against high rents and high prices for meat and other commodities.
Rent strikes and riots against high prices have become common events in our large cities.

[132] Organized Labor, by John Mitchell, page 324.

[133] See Report of Commission of Investigation, Senate Ex. Doc. No. 7, Fifty-third Congress,
third session.

[134] Particulars are taken from a pamphlet by five members of the New York Bar and issued
by the Social Reform Club, New York, in 1900.

[135] See the article by Judge Seabury, The Abuses of Injunctions, in The Arena, June, 1903.

[136] See the New York daily papers, January 31, 1906.

CHAPTER VII

KARL MARX AND THE ECONOMICS OF SOCIALISM

I

The first approach to a comprehensive treatment by Marx of the materialistic conception of
history appeared in 1847, several months before the publication of the Communist Manifesto,
in "La Misère de la Philosophie,"[137] the famous polemic with which Marx assailed J. P. Proudhon's
La Philosophie de la Misère. Marx had worked out his theory at least two years before, so Engels
tells us, and in his writings of that period there are several evidences of the fact. In "La
Misère de la Philosophie," the theory is fundamental to the work, and not merely the subject
of incidental allusion. This little book, all too little known in England and America, is therefore
important from this historical point of view. In it, Marx for the first time shows his complete
confidence in the theory. It needed confidence little short of sublime to challenge Proudhon
in the audacious manner of this scintillating critique. The torrential eloquence, the scornful
satire, and fierce invective of the attack, have rather tended to obscure for readers of a
later generation the real merit of the book, the importance of the fundamental idea that history
must be interpreted in the light of economic development, that economic evolution determines
social life. The book is important for two other reasons. First, it was the author's first
serious essay in economic science--in the preface he boldly and frankly calls himself an economist--and,
second, in it appears a full and generous recognition of that brilliant coterie of English
Socialist writers of the Ricardian school from whom Marx has been unjustly, and almost spitefully,
charged with "pillaging" his principal ideas.

What led Marx to launch out upon the troubled sea of economic science, when all his predilections
were for the study of pure philosophy, was the fact that his philosophical studies had led
him to a point whence further progress seemed impossible, except by way of economics. The Introduction
to "A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy" makes this perfectly clear. Having
decided that "the method of production in material existence conditions social, political,
and mental evolution in general," a study of economics, and especially an analysis of modern
industrial society, became inevitable. During the year 1845, when the theory of the economic
interpretation of history was absorbing his attention, Marx spent six weeks in England with
his friend Engels, and became acquainted with the work of the Ricardian Socialists already
referred to.[138] Engels had been living in England about three years at this time, and had
made an exhaustive investigation of industrial conditions there, and become intimately acquainted
with the leaders of the Chartist movement. His fine library contained most of the works of
contemporary writers, and it was thus that Marx came to know them. With the exception of Hall,
of whose privately printed book, "The Effects of Civilisation on the People of the European
States," 1805, he seems not to have known, Marx was familiar with the writings of all the foregoing,
and his obligations to some of them, especially Thompson, Hodgskin, and Bray, were not slight.
While the charge, made by Dr. Anton Menger,[139] among others, that Marx took his surplus value
theory from Thompson is quite absurd, and rests, as Bernstein has pointed out, upon nothing
but the fact that Thompson used the words "surplus value" frequently, but not at all in the
same sense as that in which Marx uses them,[140] we need not attempt to dispute the fact that
Marx gleaned much of value from Thompson and the two other writers. While criticising them,
and pointing out their shortcomings, Marx himself frequently pays tributes of respect to each
of them. His indebtedness to any of them, or to all of them, consists simply in the fact that
he recognized the germinal truths in their writings, and saw far beyond what they saw.

Godwin's most important work, "An Inquiry Concerning Political Justice," appeared in 1793,
and contains the germ of much that is called Marxian Socialism. In it may be found the broad
lines of the thought which marks much of our present-day Socialist teaching, especially the
criticism of capitalist society. Marx, however, does not appear to have been directly influenced
by it to any extent. That he was influenced by it indirectly, through William Thompson, Godwin's
most illustrious disciple, is, however, quite certain. Thompson wrote several works of a Socialist
character, of which "An Inquiry into the Principles of the Distribution of Wealth most Conducive
to Human Happiness, Applied to the newly proposed System of Voluntary Equality of Wealth,"
1824, and "Labour Rewarded. The Claims of Labour and Capital Conciliated, or How to Secure
to Labour the Whole Products of its Exertions," 1827, are the most important and best known.
Thompson must be regarded as one of the greatest precursors of Marx in the development of modern
Socialist theory. A Ricardian of the Ricardians, he states the law of wages in language that
is almost as emphatic as Lassalle's famous Ehernes Lohngesetz, which Marx made the butt of
his satire.[141] Accepting the view of Ricardo,--and indeed, of Adam Smith and other earlier
English economists, including Petty,--that labor is the sole source of exchange value,[142]
he shows by cogent argument the exploitation of the laborer, and uses the term "surplus value"
to designate the difference between the cost of maintaining the laborer and the value of his
labor product, assisted, of course, by machinery and other capital, which goes to the capitalist.
By a most labored argument, Professor Anton Menger has attempted to create the impression that
Marx took, without acknowledgment, his theory of the manner in which surplus value is produced
from Thompson, simply because Thompson frequently used the term itself.[143] Marx never claimed
to have originated the term. It is to be found in the writings of earlier economists than Thompson
even, and Marx quotes an anonymous pamphlet entitled The Source and Remedy of the National
Difficulties. A Letter to Lord John Russell, published in London in 1821, in which the phrase
"the quantity of the surplus value appropriated by the capitalist" appears.[144] Nor did Marx
claim to be the first to distinguish surplus value. That had been done very clearly by many
others, including Adam Smith.[145] What is original in Marx is the explanation of the manner
in which surplus value is produced.

John Gray's "A Lecture on Human Happiness," published in 1825, has been described by Professor
Foxwell as being "certainly one of the most remarkable of Socialist writings,"[146] and the
summary of the rare little work which he gives amply justifies the description. Gray published
other works of note, two of which, "The Social System, a Treatise on the Principle of Exchange,"
1831, and "Lectures on the Nature and Use of Money," 1848, Marx subjects to a rigorous criticism
in "A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy." Thomas Hodgskin's best-known works
are "Labour Defended against the Claims of Capital," 1825, and "The Natural and Artificial
Right of Property Contrasted," 1832. The former, which Marx calls "an admirable work," is only
a small tract of thirty-four pages, but its influence in England and America was very great.
Hodgskin was a man of great culture and erudition, with a genius for popular writing upon difficult
topics. It is interesting to know that in a letter to his friend, Francis Place, he sketched
a book which he proposed writing, "curiously like Marx's 'Capital,'" according to Place's biographer,
Mr. Wallas,[147] and from which the conservative old reformer dissuaded him. John Francis Bray
was a journeyman printer about whom very little is known. His "Labour's Wrongs and Labour's
Remedy," published in Leeds in 1839, Marx calls "a remarkable work," and in his attack upon
Proudhon he quotes from it extensively to show that Bray had anticipated the French writer's
theories.[148]

The justification for this lengthy digression from the main theme of the present chapter lies
in the fact that so many critics have sought to fasten the charge of dishonesty upon Marx,
and claimed that the ideas with which his name is associated were taken by him, without acknowledgment,
from these English Ricardians. As a matter of fact, no economist of note ever quoted his authorities,
or acknowledged his indebtedness to others, more generously than did Marx, and it is exceedingly
doubtful whether even the names of the precursors whose ideas he is accused of stealing would
be known to his critics but for his frank recognition of them. No candid reader of Marx can
fail to notice that he is most careful to show how nearly these writers approached the truth
as he conceived it.

II

When the February revolution of 1848 broke out, Marx was in Brussels. The authorities there
compelling him to leave Belgian soil, at the request of the Prussian government, he returned
to Paris, but not for a long stay. The revolutionary struggle in Germany stirred his blood,
and with Engels, Wilhelm Wolf, the intimate friend to whom he later dedicated the first volume
of "Capital," and Ferdinand Freiligrath, the fiery poet of the movement, Marx started the New
Rhenish Gazette. Unlike the first Rhenish Gazette, the new journal was absolutely free from
control by business policy. Twice Marx was summoned to appear at the Cologne assizes, upon
charges of inciting the people to rebellion, and each time he defended himself with superb
audacity and skill, and was acquitted. But in June, 1849, the authorities suppressed the paper,
because of the support it gave to the risings in Dresden and the Rhine Province. Marx was expelled
from Prussia and once more sought a refuge in Paris, which he was allowed to enjoy only for
a very brief time. Forbidden by the French government to stay in Paris, or any other part of
France except Brittany, which, says Liebknecht, was considered "fireproof," Marx turned to
London, the mecca of all political exiles, arriving there toward the end of June, 1849.

His removal to London was one of the crucial events in the life of Marx. It became possible
for him, in the classic land of capitalism, to pursue his economic studies in a way that was
not possible anywhere else in the world. As Liebknecht says: "Here in London, the metropolis
(mother city) and the center of the world, and of the world of trade--the watch tower of the
world whence the trade of the world and the political and economical bustle of the world may
be observed, in a way impossible in any other part of the globe--here Marx found what he sought
and needed, the bricks and mortar for his work. 'Capital' could be created in London only."[149]

Already much more familiar with English political economy than most English writers of his
time, and with the fine library of the British Museum at his command, Marx felt that the time
had at last arrived when he could devote himself to his long-cherished plan of writing a great
treatise upon political economy as a secure basis for the theoretical structure of Socialism.
With this object in view, he resumed his economic studies in 1850, soon after his arrival in
London. The work proceeded slowly, however, principally owing to the long and bitter struggle
with poverty which encompassed Marx and his gentle wife. For years they suffered all the miseries
of acute poverty, and even afterward, when the worst was past, the principal source of income,
at times almost the only source in fact, was the five dollars a week received from the New
York Tribune, for which Marx acted as special correspondent, and to which he contributed some
of his finest work.[150] There are few pictures more pathetic, albeit also heroic, than that
which we have of the great thinker and his devoted wife struggling against poverty during the
first few years of their stay in London. Often the little family suffered the pangs of hunger,
and Marx and a group of fellow-exiles used to resort to the reading room of the British Museum,
weak from lack of food very often, but grateful for the warmth and shelter of that hospitable
spot. The family lived some time in two small rooms in a cheap lodging house on Dean Street,
the front room serving as reception room and study, and the back room serving for everything
else. In a diary note, Mrs. Marx has herself left us an impressive picture of the suffering
of those early years in London. Early in 1852, death entered the home for the first time, taking
away a little daughter. Only a few weeks later another little daughter died, and Mrs. Marx
wrote concerning this event:--

"On Easter of the same year--1852--our poor little Francisca died of severe bronchitis. Three
days the poor child was struggling with death. It suffered so much. Its little lifeless body
rested in the small back room; we all moved together into the front room, and when night approached,
we made our beds on the floor. There the three living children were lying at our side, and
we cried about the little angel, who rested cold and lifeless near us. The death of the dear
child fell into the time of the most bitter poverty ... (the money for the burial of the child
was missing). In the anguish of my heart I went to a French refugee who lived near, and who
had sometimes visited us. I told him our sore need. At once with the friendliest kindness he
gave me two pounds. With that we paid for the little coffin in which the poor child now sleeps
peacefully. I had no cradle for her when she was born, and even the last small resting place
was long denied her. What did we suffer when it was carried away to its last place of rest!"[151]

The poverty, of which we have here such a graphic view, lasted for several years beyond the
publication of the "Critique," on to the appearance of the first volume of "Capital." When
this struggle is remembered and understood, it becomes easier to appreciate the life work of
the great Socialist thinker. "It was a terrible time, but it was grand nevertheless," wrote
Liebknecht years afterward to Eleanor Marx. As this is the last place in which the personality
of Marx, or his personal affairs, will be discussed in this volume, and in view of constant
misrepresentations on the part of unscrupulous opponents of Socialism, a further word concerning
his family life may not be out of place. Those persons who regard Socialism as being antagonistic
to the family relation, and fear it in consequence, will find no suggestion of support for
that view in either the life of Marx or his teaching. The love of Marx and his wife for each
other was beautiful and idyllic. A true account of their love and devotion would rank with
the most beautiful love stories in literature. Their friends understood that, too, and there
is a world of significance in the one brief sentence spoken by Engels, when told of the death
of his friend's beautiful wife, who was likewise his own dear friend: "Mohr [Negro, a nickname
given to Marx by his friends when young, on account of his mass of black hair and whiskers]
is dead too," he said simply. He knew that from this blow Marx could not recover. It was indeed
true. Though he lingered on for about three months after her death, the life of Marx really
ended when the playmate of his boyhood, and the lover and companion of all the years of struggle,
died with the name of her dear "Karl" upon her lips.

Marx was an ideal father as well as an ideal husband. Always passionately fond of children,
he could not resist the temptation to join the games of children upon the streets, and in the
neighborhoods where he lived the children soon learned to regard him as their friend. To his
own children he was a real companion, always ready to amuse and to be amused by them.

III

The studious years spent in the reading room of the British Museum complete the anglicization
of Marx. "Capital" is essentially an English work, the fact of its having been written in German,
by a German writer, being merely incidental. No more distinctively English treatise on political
economy was ever written, not even "The Wealth of Nations." Even the method and style of the
book are, contrary to general opinion, much more distinctly English than German. I do not forget
his Hegelian dialectic with its un-English subtleties, but against that must be placed the
directness, vigor, and pointedness of style, and the cogent reasoning, with its wealth of concrete
illustrations, which are as characteristically English. Marx belongs to the school of Petty,
Smith, and Ricardo, and their work is the background of his. "Capital" was the child of English
industrial conditions and English thought, born by chance upon German soil.

Toward the middle of the nineteenth century, English economic thought was entirely dominated
by the ideas and methods of Ricardo, who has been described by Senior, not without justice,
as "the most incorrect writer who ever attained philosophical eminence."[152] So far as such
a sweeping criticism can be justified by looseness in the use of terms, it is justified by
Ricardo's failing in this respect. That he should have attained the eminence he did, dominating
English economic thought for so many years, in spite of the confusion which his loose and uncertain
use of words occasioned, is not less a tribute to Ricardo's genius than evidence of the poverty
of political economy in England at that time. In view of the constant and tiresome reiteration
of the charge that Marx pillaged his labor-value theory from Thompson, Hodgskin, Bray, or some
other more or less obscure writer of the Ricardian school, it is well to remember that there
is nothing in the works of any of these writers connected with the theory of value which is
not to be found in the earlier work of Ricardo himself. In like manner, the theory can be traced
back from Ricardo to the master he honored, Adam Smith. Furthermore, almost a century before
the appearance of "The Wealth of Nations," Sir William Petty had anticipated the so-called
Ricardian labor-value theory of Smith and his followers.

Petty, rather than Smith, is entitled to be regarded as the founder of the classical school
of political economy, and Cossa justly calls him "one of the most illustrious forerunners of
the science of statistical research."[153] He may indeed fairly be said to have been the father
of statistical science, and was the first to apply statistics, or "political arithmetick,"
as he called it, to the elucidation of economic theory. He boasts that "instead of using only
comparative and superlative Words, and intellectual Arguments," his method is to speak "in
Terms of Number, Weight, or Measure; to use only Arguments of Sense; and to consider only such
Causes, as have visible Foundations in Nature; leaving those that depend upon the mutable Minds,
Opinions, Appetites, and Passions of particular Men, to the Consideration of others."[154]
The celebrated saying of this sagacious thinker that "labor is the father and active principle
of wealth; lands are the mother," is more Marxian than Ricardian. Petty divided the population
into two classes, the productive and non-productive, and insisted that the value of all things
depends upon the labor it costs to produce them. This is, as we shall see, entirely Ricardian,
but not Marxian. But these are the ideas Marx is supposed to have borrowed, without acknowledgment,
from comparatively obscure followers of Ricardo, in spite of the fact that he gives abundant
credit to the earlier writer. It has been asked with ample justification whether these critics
of Marx have read either the works of Marx or his predecessors.

Adam Smith, who accepted the foregoing principles laid down by Petty, followed his example
of basing his conclusions largely upon observed facts instead of abstractions. It is not the
least of Smith's merits that, despite his many digressions, looseness of phraseology, and other
admitted defects, his love for the concrete kept his feet upon the solid ground of fact. With
his successors, notably Ricardo and John Stuart Mill, it was far otherwise. They made political
economy an isolated study of abstract doctrines. Instead of a study of the meaning and relation
of facts, it became a cult of abstractions, and the aim of its teachers seemed to be to render
the science as little scientific, and as dull, as possible. They set up an abstraction, an
"economic man," and created for it a world of economic abstractions. It is impossible to read
either Ricardo or John Stuart Mill, but especially the latter, without feeling the artificiality
of the superstructures they created, and the justice of Carlyle's description of such political
economy as the "dismal science." With a realism greater even than Adam Smith's, and a more
logical method than Ricardo or John Stuart Mill, Marx restored the science of political economy
to its old fact foundations.

IV

The superior insight of Marx is shown in the very first sentence of his great work. The careful
reader at once perceives that the first paragraph of the book strikes a keynote which distinguishes
it from all other economic works comparable to it in importance. Marx was a great master of
the art of luminous and exact definition, and nowhere is this more strikingly shown than in
this opening sentence of "Capital": "The wealth of those societies in which the capitalist
mode of production prevails presents itself as an immense accumulation of commodities, its
unit being a single commodity."[155] In this simple, lucid sentence the theory of social evolution
is clearly implied. The author repudiates, by implication, the idea that it is possible to
lay down universal or eternal laws, and limits himself to the exploration of the phenomena
appearing in a certain stage of historical development. We are not to have another abstract
economic man with a world of abstractions all his own; lone, shipwrecked mariners upon barren
islands, imaginary communities nicely adapted for demonstration purposes in college class rooms,
and all the other stage properties of the political economists, are to be entirely discarded.
Our author does not propose to give us a set of principles by which we shall be able to understand
and explain the phenomena of human society at all times and in all places--the Israel of the
Mosaic Age, the nomadic life of Arab tribes, Europe in the Middle Ages, and England in the
nineteenth century.

In effect, the passage under consideration says: "Political economy is the study of the principles
and laws governing the production and distribution of wealth. Because of the fact that in the
progress of society different systems of wealth production and exchange, and different concepts
of wealth, prevail at different times, and at various places at the same time, we cannot formulate
any laws which will apply to all times and all places. We must choose for examination and study
a certain form of production, representing a particular stage of historical development, and
be careful not to attempt to apply any of its laws to other forms of production, representing
other stages of development. We might have chosen to investigate the laws which governed the
production of wealth in the ancient Babylonian Empire, or in Mediæval Europe, had we so desired,
but we have chosen instead the period in which we live."

This that we call the capitalist epoch has grown out of the geographical discoveries and the
mechanical inventions of the past three hundred years or so, especially of the seventeenth
and eighteenth centuries. Its chief characteristic, from an economic point of view, is that
of production for sale instead of direct use as in earlier stages of social development. Of
course, barter and sale are much older than this epoch which we are discussing. In all ages
men have exchanged their surplus products for other things more desirable to them, either directly
by barter or through some medium of exchange. In the very nature of things, however, such exchange
as this must have been incidental to the life of the people engaging in it, and not its principal
aim. Under such conditions of society wealth consists in the possession of useful things. The
naked savage, so long as he possessed plenty of weapons, and could get an abundance of fish
or game, was, from the viewpoint of the society in which he lived, a wealthy man. In other
words, the wealth of pre-capitalist society consisted in the possession of use-values, and
not of exchange-values. Robinson Crusoe, for whom the possibility of exchange did not exist,
was, from this pre-capitalist viewpoint, a very wealthy man.

In our present society, production is carried on primarily for exchange, for sale. The first
and essential characteristic feature of wealth in this stage of social development is that
it takes the form of accumulated exchange-values, or commodities. Men are accounted rich or
poor according to the exchange-values they can command, and not according to the use-values
they can command. To use a favorite example, the man who owns a ton of potatoes is far richer
in simple use-values than the man whose only possession is a sack of diamonds, but, because
in present society a sack of diamonds will exchange for an almost infinite quantity of potatoes,
the owner of the diamonds is much wealthier than the owner of the potatoes. The criterion of
wealth in capitalist society is exchangeable value as opposed to use-value, the criterion of
wealth in primitive society. The unit of wealth is therefore a commodity, and we must begin
our investigation with it. If we can analyze the nature of a commodity so that we can understand
how and why it is produced, and how and why it is exchanged, we shall be able to understand
the principle governing the production and exchange of wealth in this and every other society
where similar conditions prevail, where, that is to say, the unit of wealth is a commodity,
and wealth consists in an accumulation of commodities.

V

The visit to America, in 1907, of a distinguished English critic of Socialism, Mr. W. H. Mallock,
had the effect of thrusting into prominence a common misconception of Marxian Socialism, and
it is highly significant that, except in the Socialist press, none of the numerous comments
which the series of university lectures delivered by that gentleman occasioned, called attention
to the fact that they were based throughout upon a misstatement of the Marxian position. Briefly,
Mr. Mallock insisted that Marx believed and taught that all wealth is produced by manual labor,
and that, therefore, it ought to belong to the manual workers. In order that there may be no
misstatement of our amiable critic's position, it will be best to quote his own words. He says,
in Lecture I: "The practical outcome of the scientific economics of Marx is summed up in the
formula which is the watchword of popular Socialism. 'All wealth is due to labor; therefore
all wealth ought to go to the laborer'--a doctrine in itself not novel, but presented by Marx
as the outcome of an elaborate system of economics"[156] (page 6). The careful reader will
notice that Mr. Mallock does not profess to give the exact words of Marx, nor refer to any
particular passage, but says that the formula quoted by him is the "practical outcome" of the
economic system of Marx, "presented by Marx" as such. But to quote again: "Wealth, says Marx,
not only ought to be, but actually can be distributed amongst a certain class of persons, namely,
the laborers.... Because these laborers comprise in the acts of labor everything that is involved
in the production of it" (page 7). Again: " ... Marx makes of his doctrine that labor alone
produces all economic wealth" (page 7). Also: " ... that theory of production which the genius
of Karl Marx invested with a semblance, at all events, of sober, scientific truth, and which
ascribes all wealth to that ordinary manual labor which brings the sweat to the brow of the
ordinary laboring man" (page 12).[157] All the foregoing passages are taken from a single lecture,
the first of the series. We will take only a few from the others: " ... the doctrine of Marx
that all productive effort is absolutely equal in productivity" (Lecture III, page 46); "Marx
based the ethics of distribution on what purported to be an analysis of production" (Lecture
IV, page 61); " ... Count Tolstoy, ... like Socialists of the school of Marx, declares that
ordinary manual labor is the source of all wealth" (Lecture IV, page 76). "One is the attempt
of Marx and his school, which represents ordinary manual labor as the sole producer of wealth"
(Lecture IV, page 81); " ... the Marxian doctrine ... that manual labor is the sole producer
of wealth" (Lecture V, page 115). It would be easy to add many other quotations very similar
to these, but it is unnecessary. From the quotations given we can gather Mr. Mallock's conception
of what Marx taught regarding the source of wealth.

It will be seen that Mr. Mallock alleges: (1) That Marx believed and taught that all wealth
is produced by ordinary manual labor; (2) that he held, as a consequence, that all wealth ought
to belong to the manual laborers, thus basing an ethic of distribution upon production; (3)
that he taught that all productive effort is absolutely equal in productive value, in other
words, that ten hours' work of one kind is economically as valuable as ten hours' of any other
kind, so long as the labor is productive.

It is not easy to command the necessary self-restraint to reply with dignity to such wholesale
misrepresentation as this. There is not the slightest scintilla of a foundation in fact for
any one of the three statements. Not a single passage can be quoted from Marx which justifies
any one of them. As we shall see, Marx specifically repudiated each one of them, a great deal
more forcefully than Mr. Mallock does. That such misrepresentations of Marx should have been
permitted to pass unchallenged in so many of our great colleges and universities is to our
national shame. We will briefly consider the teaching of Marx under each of the three heads.

First, the source of wealth. It is true that such phrases as "Labor is the source of all wealth"
are constantly met with in the popular literature of Socialism, but so far as that is the case
it is not due to the teaching of Marx, but rather in spite of it. In the writings of the early
Ricardian Socialists these phrases abound, but nowhere in all the writings of Marx will such
a statement be found. For many years the opening sentence in the Programme of the German party
contained the phrase "Labor is the source of all wealth and of all culture," but it was adopted
in spite of the protest of Marx. The Gotha Programme was adopted in 1875. A draft was submitted
to Marx and he wrote of it that it was "utterly condemnable and demoralizing to the party."
Of the passage in question, he wrote: "Labor is not the source of all wealth. Nature is just
as much the source of use-values (and of such, to be sure, is material wealth composed) as
is labor, which itself is but the expression of a natural force, of human labor-power."[158]
That the clause was adopted was a bitter disappointment to Marx, and was due to the insistence
of the followers of Ferdinand Lassalle. To say that Marx held labor to be the sole source of
wealth is to misrepresent his whole teaching.[159]

But while the Lassallians, and before them the Ricardians, used the phrase, it is evident that
they assumed the inclusion of what Marx calls "Nature." They know very well that labor, mere
exertion of physical strength, could produce nothing. If, for instance, a man were to spend
all his strength trying to lift the pyramids, alone and unaided by mechanical power, it is
quite evident to the meanest intellect that his exertions would not produce a single atom of
wealth. It is equally obvious that if we take any use-value, whether it be an exchange-value
or not being immaterial, we cannot eliminate from it the substance of which it is composed.
Take, for example, the canoe of a savage, which is a simple use-value, and a meerschaum pipe,
which is a commodity. In the canoe we have part of the trunk of a tree taken from the primeval
forest, one of Nature's products. But without the labor of the savage it would never have become
a canoe. It would have remained simply part of the trunk of a tree, and would not have acquired
the use-value it has as a canoe. But it is likewise true that without the tree the canoe could
not have existed. So with our meerschaum pipe. It is not simply a use-value: it is also an
article of commerce, an exchange-value, a commodity. Its elements are, the silicate mineral
which Nature provided and the form which human labor has given it. We can apply this test to
every form of wealth, whether simple use-values or commodities, and we shall find that, in
Mill's phrase, wealth is produced by the application of human labor to appropriate natural objects.

This brings us to the second point in Mr. Mallock's criticism, namely, that Marx held that
only "ordinary manual labor" is capable of producing wealth, and that, therefore, all wealth
ought to go to the manual laborers. One looks in vain for a single passage in all the writings
of Marx which will justify this criticism. It may be conceded at once that if Marx taught anything
of the kind, the defect in Marxian theory is fatal. But it must be proven that the defect exists--and
the onus probandi rests upon Mr. Mallock. One need not be a trained economist or a learned
philosopher to see how absurd such a theory must be. Suppose we take, for example, a man working
in a factory, at a great machine, making screws. We go to that man and say: "Every screw here
is made by manual labor alone. The machine does not count; the brains of the inventors of the
machine have nothing to do with the making of screws." Our laborer might be illiterate and
unable to read a single page of political economy with understanding, but he would know that
our statement was foolish and untrue. Or, suppose we take the machine itself and say to the
laborer: "That great machine with all its levers and wheels and springs working in such beautiful
harmony was made entirely by manual workers, such as molders, blacksmiths, and machinists;
no brain workers had anything to do with the making of it; the labor of the inventors, and
of the men who drew the plans and supervised the making, had nothing to do with the production
of the machine"--our laborer would rightly conclude that we were either fools or seeking to
mock him as one.

Curiously enough, notwithstanding the frequent reiteration of this criticism of Marx by Mr.
Mallock, he himself, in an unguarded moment, provides the answer by which Marx is vindicated!
Thus, speaking of the great classical economists, Adam Smith, Ricardo, and John Stuart Mill,
he points out that they included "all forms of living industrial effort, from those of a Watt
or an Edison down to those of a man who tars a fence, grouped together under the common name
of labor" (Lecture I, page 16). And again: "At present the orthodox economists and the socialistic
economists alike give us all human effort[160] tied up, as it were, in a sack, and ticketed
'human labor'" (Lecture I, page 18). Now, if the Socialist includes in his definition of labor
"all human effort," it stands to reason that he does not mean only "ordinary manual labor"
when he uses the term. Thus Mallock answers Mallock and vindicates Marx!

Of course, Marx, like all the great economists, includes in his concept of labor every kind
of productive effort, mental as well as physical, as Mr. Mallock, to the utter destruction
of his disingenuous criticism, unconsciously--we must suppose--admitted. Take, for example,
this definition: "By labor power or capacity for labor is to be understood the aggregate of
those mental and physical capabilities existing in a human being, which he exercises when he
produces a use-value of any description."[161] As against this luminous and precise definition,
it is but fair to quote that of Mr. Mallock himself. He defines labor as "the faculties of
an individual applied to his own labor"[162]--a meaningless jumble of words. The fifty-seven
letters contained in that sentence would mean just as much if put in a bag, well shaken, and
put on paper just as they happened to fall from the bag.

Marx never argued that the producers of wealth had a right to the wealth produced. The "right
of labor to the whole of its produce" was, it is true, the keynote of the theories of the Ricardian
Socialists. An echo of the doctrine appeared in the Gotha Programme of the German Socialists
to which reference has already been made, and in the popular agitation of Socialism in this
and other countries it is echoed more or less frequently. Just in proportion as the ethical
argument for Socialism is advanced, and appeals made to the sense of justice, the rich idler
is condemned and an ethic of distribution based upon production becomes an important feature
of the propaganda. But Marx nowhere indulges in this kind of argument. Not in a single line
of "Capital," or his minor economic treatises, can any hint of the doctrine be found. He invariably
scoffed at the "ethical distribution" idea. In the judgment of the present writer, this is
at once his great strength and weakness, but that is beside the point of this discussion. Suffice
it to say, though it involves some reiteration, that Marx never took the position that Socialism
ought to take the place of capitalism, because the producers of wealth ought to get the whole
of the wealth they produce. His position was rather that Socialism must come, simply because
capitalism could not last.

Finally, we come to the charge that Marx taught that "all productive effort is absolutely equal
in productivity." Incredible as it may seem, it is nevertheless a fact that everything Marx
has to say upon the subject is directly opposed to this notion, and that, as we shall see later
on, his famous theory of value is not only not dependent upon a belief in the equal productivity
of all productive effort, but would be completely shattered by it. Not only Marx, but also
Mill, Ricardo, and Smith, his great predecessors, recognized the fact that all labor is not
equally productive. Of course, it requires no special genius to demonstrate this. That a poor
mechanic with antiquated tools will produce less in a given number of hours than an expert
mechanic with good tools, for example, is too obvious for comment. The Marx assailed by Mr.
Mallock, and numerous critics like him, is a myth. The real Marx they do not touch--hence the
futility of their work. The Marx they attack is a man of straw, not the immortal thinker. Endowed

     "With just enough of learning to misquote,"

their assaults are vain.

VI

Having thus disposed of some of the more prevalent criticisms of Marx as an economist, we are
ready for a definite, consecutive statement of the economic theory of modern Socialism. First,
however, a word as to the term "scientific" as commonly applied to Marxian Socialism. Even
some of the friendliest of Socialist critics have contended that the use of the term is pretentious,
bombastic, and altogether unjustified. From a certain narrow point of view, this appears to
be an unimportant matter, and the vigor with which Socialists defend their use of the term
seems exceedingly foolish, and accountable for only as a result of enthusiastic fetish worship--the
fetish, of course, being Marx.

Such a view is very crude and superficial. It cannot be doubted that the Socialism represented
by Marx and the modern political Socialist movement is radically different from the earlier
Socialism with which the names of Fourier, Saint-Simon, Cabet, Owen, and a host of other builders
of "cloud palaces for an ideal humanity," are associated. The need of some word to distinguish
between the two is obvious, and the only question remaining is whether or not the word "scientific"
is the most suitable and accurate one to make that distinction clear; whether the words "scientific"
and "utopian" express with reasonable accuracy the nature of the difference. Here the followers
of Marx feel that they have an impregnable position. The method of Marx is scientific. From
the first sentence of his great work to the last, the method pursued is that of a painstaking
scientist. It would be just as reasonable to complain of the use of the word "scientific" in
connection with the work of Darwin and his followers, to distinguish it from the guesswork
of Anaximander, as to cavil at the distinction made between the Socialism of Marx and Engels
and their followers, and that of visionaries like Owen and Saint-Simon.

Doubtless both Marx and Engels lapsed occasionally into Utopianism. We see instances of this
in the illusions Marx entertained regarding the Crimean War bringing about the European Social
Revolution; in the theory of the increasing misery of the proletariat; in Engels' confident
prediction, in 1845, that a Socialist revolution was imminent and inevitable; and in the prediction
of both that an economic cataclysm must create the conditions for a sudden and complete revolution
in society. These, I say, are Utopian ideas, evidences that the founders of scientific Socialism
were tinctured with the older ideas of the Utopists, and even more with their spirit. But when
we speak of "Marxism," what mental picture does the word suggest, what intellectual concept
is the word a name for? Is it these forecasts and guesses, and the exact mode of realizing
the Socialist ideal which Marx laid down, or is it the great principle of social evolution
determined by economic development? Is it his naïve and simple description of the process of
capitalist concentration, in which no hint appears of the circuitous windings that carried
the actual process into unforeseen channels, or the broad fact that the concentration has taken
place and that monopoly has come out of competition? Is it his statement of the extent to which
labor is exploited, or the fact of the exploitation? If we are to judge Marx by the essential
things, rather than by the incidental and non-essential things, then we must admit his claim
to be reckoned with the great scientific sociologists and economists.

After all, what constitutes scientific method? Is it not the recognition of the law of causation,
putting exact knowledge of facts above tradition or sentiment; accumulating facts patiently
until sufficient have been gathered to make possible the formulation of generalizations and
laws enabling us to connect the present with the past, and in some measure to foretell the
outcome of the present, as Marx foretold the culmination of competition in monopoly? Is it
not to see past, present, and future as one whole, a growth, a constant process, so that instead
of vainly fashioning plans for millennial Utopias, we seek in the facts of to-day the stream
of tendencies, and so learn the direction of the immediate flow of progress? If this is a true
concept of scientific method, and the scientific spirit, then Karl Marx was a scientist, and
modern Socialism is aptly named Scientific Socialism.

FOOTNOTES:

[137] An English edition of this work, translated by H. Quelch, was published in 1900 under
the title The Poverty of Philosophy.

[138] Cf. F. Engels, Preface to La Misère de la Philosophie, English translation, The Poverty
of Philosophy, page iv.

[139] The Right to the Whole Produce of Labour, by Anton Menger, 1899.

[140] Edward Bernstein, Ferdinand Lassalle as a Social Reformer, page ix.

[141] Criticism of the Gotha Programme, from the posthumous papers of Karl Marx.

[142] It should perhaps be pointed out here, to avoid misunderstanding, that Ricardo hedged
this doctrine about with important qualifications--not always observed by his followers--till
it no longer remained the simple proposition stated above. See Dr. A. C. Whitaker's History
and Criticism of the Labour Theory of Value in English Political Economy, page 57, for a suggestive
treatment of this point.

[143] The Right to the Whole Produce of Labour.

[144] Cf. Capital, Vol. I, page 644, and Vol. II, page 19, Kerr edition.

[145] Cf., for instance, The Wealth of Nations, Vol. I, Chapter VI.

[146] Introduction to Menger's The Right to the Whole Produce of Labour.

[147] The Life of Francis Place, by Graham Wallas, M.A., London, 1898, page 268.

[148] For this brief sketch of the works of these Ricardian Socialist writers I have drawn
freely upon Menger's The Right to the Whole Produce of Labour, and Professor Foxwell's Introduction
thereto.

[149] Karl Marx: Biographical Memoirs, by Wilhelm Liebknecht, translated by E. Untermann, 1901,
page 32.

[150] Much of this work has been collated and edited by Marx's daughter, the late Mrs. Eleanor
Marx-Aveling, and her husband, Dr. Edward Aveling, and published in two volumes, The Eastern
Question and Revolution and Counter-Revolution.

[151] The note is quoted by Liebknecht, Memoirs of Marx, page 177, and in the Introduction
to Revolution and Counter-Revolution, by the editor, Eleanor Marx-Aveling.

[152] Political Economy, page 115.

[153] Luigi Cossa, Guide to the Study of Political Economy, English translation, 1880.

[154] The Economic Writings of Sir William Petty, edited by Charles Henry Hull, Vol. I, page 244.

[155] The italics are mine.--J. S.

[156] All quotations from Mr. Mallock are taken from the volume containing the text of his
lectures, entitled Socialism, published by The National Civic Federation, New York, 1907.

[157] The italics are mine.--J. S.

[158] Letter on the Gotha Programme, by Karl Marx, published in the collection of the posthumous
writings of Marx and Engels, edited by Mehring, 1902. See a translation of the letter by Dr.
Harriet E. Lothrop, International Socialist Review, May, 1908.

[159] I note that my friend, Mr. J. R. Macdonald, M.P., "Whip" of the Labour Party in the British
House of Commons, so misrepresents Marx in his admirable little book, Socialism, page 54.

[160] Italics mine.--J. S.

[161] The italics are mine. The passage occurs on page 186, Vol. I, of Capital, Kerr edition.
In the last of the series of lectures printed in his book, Mr. Mallock attempts a reply to
the criticism of an American Socialist, Mr. Morris Hillquit who quoted this passage from Marx
to show that Mr. Mallock was in error in saying that Marx regarded manual labor as the sole
source of wealth. He evades the real point, namely, that Marx clearly included mental as well
as physical labor in his use of the term, and with an ingenuity equaled only by the disingenuousness
of the argument, seeks refuge in the fact that it does not cover the special "directive ability"
which is a special function, "a productive force distinct from labor." The trick will not do.
The fact is that Marx clearly and precisely covers that point in another place. The reader
is referred to Chapter XIII of Part IV, Vol. I, of Capital, pages 363-368, Kerr edition, for
a brilliant and honest treatment of the whole subject of the place of the "directing few" in
modern industry. We shall treat the matter briefly later on.

[162] Italics mine.--J. S. The passage occurs in Lecture III, page 36.

CHAPTER VIII

OUTLINES OF SOCIALIST ECONOMIC THEORY

I

The geist of social and political evolution is economic, according to the Socialist philosophy.
This view of the importance of man's economic relations involves some very radical changes
in the methods and terminology of political economy. The philosophical view of social and political
evolution as a world-process, through revolutions formed in the matrices of economic conditions,
at once limits and expands the scope of political economy. It destroys on the one hand the
idea of the eternality of economic laws and limits them to particular epochs. On the other
hand, it enhances the importance of the science of political economy as a study of the motive
force of social evolution. With Marx and his followers, political economy is more than an analysis
of the production and distribution of wealth; it is a study of the principal determinant factor
in the social and political progress of society, consciously recognized as such.

The sociological viewpoint appears throughout the whole of Marxian economic thought. It appears,
for instance, in the definition of a commodity as the unit of wealth in those societies in
which the capitalist mode of production prevails. Likewise wealth and capital connote special
social relations or categories. Wealth, which in certain simpler forms of social organization
consists in the ownership of use-values, under the capitalist system consists in the ownership
of exchange-values. Capital is not a thing, but a social relation between persons established
through the medium of things. Robinson Crusoe's spade, the Indian's bow and arrow, and all
similar illustrations given by the "orthodox" economists, do not constitute capital any more
than an infant's spoon is capital. They do not serve as the medium of the social relation between
wage-worker and capitalist which characterizes the capitalist system of production. The essential
feature of capitalist society is the production of wealth in the commodity form; that is to
say, in the form of objects that, instead of being consumed by the producer, are intended to
be exchanged or sold at a profit. Capital, therefore, is wealth set aside for the production
of other wealth with a view to its exchange at a profit. A house may consist of certain definite
quantities of bricks, timber, lime, iron, and other substances, but similar quantities of these
substances piled up without plan will not constitute a house. Bricks, timber, lime, and iron
become a house only in certain circumstances, when they bear a given ordered relation to each
other. "A negro is a negro; it is only under certain conditions that he becomes a slave. A
certain machine, for example, is a machine for spinning cotton; it is only under certain defined
conditions that it becomes capital. Apart from these conditions, it is no more capital than
gold per se is money; capital is a social relation of production."[163]

This sociological principle pervades the whole of Socialist economics. It appears in every
economic definition, practically, and the terminology of the orthodox political economists
is thereby often given a new meaning, radically different from that originally given to it
and commonly understood. The student of Socialism who fails to appreciate this fact will most
frequently land in a morass of confusion and difficulty, but the careful student who fully
understands it will find it of great assistance. Take, as an illustration, the phrase "the
abolition of capital" which frequently occurs in Socialist literature. The reader who thinks
of capital as consisting of things, such as machinery, materials of production, money, and
so on, finds the phrase bewildering. He wonders how it is conceivable that production should
go on if these things were done away with. But the student who fully understands the sociological
principle outlined above comprehends at once that it is not proposed to do away with the things,
but with certain social relations expressed through them. He understands that the "abolition
of capital" no more involves the destruction of the physical things than the abolition of slavery
involved the destruction of the slave himself. What is aimed at is the social relation which
is established through the medium of the things commonly called capital.

II

In common with all the great economists, Socialists hold that wealth is produced by human labor
applied to appropriate natural objects. This, as we have seen, does not mean that labor is
the sole source of wealth. Still less does it mean that the mere expenditure of labor upon
natural objects must inevitably result in the production of wealth. If a man spends his time
digging holes in the ground and filling them up again, or dipping water from the ocean in a
bucket and pouring it back again, the labor so expended upon natural objects would not produce
wealth of any kind. Nor is the productivity of mental labor denied. In the term "labor" is
implied the totality of human energies expended in production, regardless of whether those
energies be physical or mental. In modern society wealth consists of social use-values, commodities.

We must, therefore, begin our analysis of capitalist society with an analysis of a commodity.
"A commodity," says Marx, "is, in the first place, an object outside us, a thing that by its
properties satisfies human wants of some sort or another. The nature of such wants, whether,
for instance, they spring from the stomach or from fancy, makes no difference. Neither are
we here concerned to know how the object satisfies these wants, whether directly as means of
subsistence, or indirectly as means of production."[164] But a commodity must be something
more than an object satisfying human wants. Such objects are simple use-values, but commodities
are something else in addition to simple use-values. The manna upon which the pilgrim exiles
of the Bible story were fed, for instance, was not a commodity, though it fulfilled the conditions
of this first part of our definition by satisfying human wants. We must carry our definition
further, therefore. In addition to use-value, then, a commodity must possess exchange-value.
In other words, it must have a social use-value, a use-value to others, and not merely to the
producer.

Thus, things may have the quality of satisfying human wants without being commodities. To state
the matter in the language of the economists, use-values may, and often do, exist without economic
value, value, that is to say, in exchange. Air, for example, is absolutely indispensable to
life, yet it is not--except in special, abnormal conditions--subject to sale or exchange. With
a use-value that is beyond computation, it has no exchange-value. Similarly, water is ordinarily
plentiful and has no economic value; it is not a commodity. A seeming contradiction exists
in the case of the water supply of cities where water for domestic use is commercially supplied,
but a moment's reflection will show that it is not the water, but the social service of bringing
it to a desired location for the consumer's convenience that represents economic value. Over
and above that there is, however, the element of monopoly-price which enters into the matter.
With that we have not, at this point, anything to do. Under ordinary circumstances, water,
like light, is plentiful; its utility to man is not due to man's labor, and it has, therefore,
no economic value. But in exceptional circumstances, as in an arid desert or in a besieged
fortress, a millionaire might be willing to give all his wealth for a little water, thus making
the value of what is ordinarily valueless almost infinite. What may be called natural use-values
have no economic value. And even use-values that are the result of human labor may be equally
without economic value. If I make something to satisfy some want of my own, it will have no
economic value unless it will satisfy the want of some one else. So, unless a use-value is
social, unless the object produced is of use to some other person than the producer, it will
have no value in the economic sense: it will not be exchangeable.

A commodity must therefore possess two fundamental qualities. It must have a use-value, must
satisfy some human want or desire; it must also have an exchange-value arising from the fact
that the use-value contained in it is social in its nature and exchangeable for other exchange-values.
With the unit of wealth thus defined, the subsequent study of economics is immensely simplified.[165]

The trade of capitalist societies is the exchange of commodities against each other, through
the medium of money. Commodities utterly unlike each other in all apparent physical properties,
such as color, weight, size, shape, substance, and so on, and utterly unlike each other in
respect to the purposes for which intended and the nature of the wants they satisfy, are exchanged
for one another, sometimes equally, sometimes in unequal ratio. The question immediately arises:
what is it that determines the relative value of commodities so exchanged? A dress suit and
a kitchen stove, for example, are very different commodities, possessing no outward semblance
to each other, and satisfying very different human wants, yet they may, and actually do, exchange
upon an equality in the market. To understand the reason for this similarity of value of dissimilar
commodities, and the principle which governs the exchange of commodities in general, is to
understand an important part of the mechanism of modern capitalist society.

This is the problem of value which all the great economists have tried to solve. Sir William
Petty, Adam Smith, David Ricardo, John Stuart Mill, and Karl Marx developed what is known as
the labor-value theory as the solution of the problem. This theory, as developed by Marx, not
in its cruder forms, is one of the cardinal principles in Socialist economic theory. The Ricardian
statement of the theory is that the relative value of commodities to one another is determined
by the relative amounts of human labor embodied in them; that the quantity of labor embodied
in them is the determinant of the value of all commodities. When all their differences have
been carefully noted, all commodities have at least one quality in common. The dress suit and
the kitchen range, toothpicks and snowshoes, pink parasols and sewing-machines, are unlike
each other in every other particular save one--they are all products of human labor, crystallizations
of human labor-power. Here, then, say the Socialists, as did the great classical economists,
we have a hint of the secret of the mechanism of exchange in capitalist society. The amount
of labor-power embodied in their production is in some way connected with the measure of the
exchangeable value of the commodities.

Stated in the simple, crude form, that the quantity of human labor crystallized in them is
the basis and measure of the value of commodities when exchanged against one another, the labor
theory of value is beautifully simple. At least, the formula is simplicity itself. At the same
time, it is open to certain very obvious criticisms. It would be absurd to contend that the
day's labor of a coolie laborer is equal in productivity to the day's labor of a highly skilled
mechanic, or that the day's labor of an incompetent workman is of equal value to that of the
most proficient. To refute such a theory is as beautifully simple as the theory itself. In
all seriousness, arguments such as these are constantly used against the Marxian theory of
value, notwithstanding that they do not possess the slightest relation to it. Marxism is very
frequently "refuted" by those who do not trouble themselves to understand it.

The idea that the quantity of labor embodied in them is the determinant of the value of commodities
was held by practically all the great economists. Sir William Petty, for example, in a celebrated
passage, says of the exchange-value of corn: "If a man can bring to London an ounce of silver
out of the earth in Peru in the same time that he can produce a bushel of corn, then one is
the natural price of the other; now, if by reason of new and more easy mines a man can get
two ounces of silver as easily as formerly he did one, then the corn will be as cheap at ten
shillings a bushel as it was before at five shillings a bushel, cæteris paribus."[166]

Adam Smith, following Petty's lead, says: "The real price of everything, what everything really
costs to the man who wants to acquire it, is the toil and trouble of acquiring it. What everything
is really worth to the man who has acquired it, and who wants to dispose of it or exchange
it for something else, is the toil and labor which it can save to himself, and which it can
impose on other people.... Labor was the first price, the original purchase money, that was
paid for all things.... If among a nation of hunters, for example, it usually costs twice the
labor to kill a beaver which it does to kill a deer, one beaver would naturally be worth or
exchange for two deer. It is natural that what is usually the produce of two days' or two hours'
labor, should be worth double of what is usually the produce of one day's or one hour's labor."[167]

Benjamin Franklin, whose merit as an economist Marx recognized, takes the same view and regards
trade as being "nothing but the exchange of labor for labor, the value of all things being
most justly measured by labor."[168] From the writings of almost every one of the great classical
economists of England it would be easy to compile a formidable and convincing volume of similar
quotations, showing that they all took the same view that the quantity of human labor embodied
in commodities determines their value. One further quotation, from Ricardo, must, however,
suffice. He says:--

"To convince ourselves that this (quantity of labor) is the real foundation of exchangeable
value, let us suppose any improvement to be made in the means of abridging labor in any one
of the various processes through which the raw cotton must pass before the manufactured stockings
come to the market to be exchanged for other things; and observe the effects which will follow.
If fewer men were required to cultivate the raw cotton, or if fewer sailors were employed in
navigating, or shipwrights in constructing, the ship in which it was conveyed to us; if fewer
hands were employed in raising the buildings and machinery, or if these, when raised, were
rendered more efficient; the stockings would inevitably fall in value, and command less of
other things. They would fall because a less quantity of labor was necessary to their production,
and would therefore exchange for a smaller quantity of those things in which no such abridgment
of labor had been made."[169]

It is evident from the foregoing quotations that these great writers regarded the quantity
of human labor crystallized in them as the basis of all commodity values, and their real measure.
The great merit of Ricardo lies in his development of the idea of social labor as against the
simple concept of the labor of particular individuals, or sets of individuals. In the passage
cited, he includes in the term "quantity of human labor" not merely the total labor of those
immediately concerned in the making of stockings, from the cultivation of the raw cotton to
the actual making of stockings in the factory, but all the labor indirectly expended, even
in the making and navigating of ships, and the building of the factories. One does, indeed,
find hints of the social labor concept in Adam Smith, but it is Ricardo who first clearly develops
it. Marx further developed this principle, and all criticisms of the labor-value theory in
Marxian economic theory which are based upon the assumption that quantity of labor means the
simple, direct labor embodied in commodities fall of their own weight.

Thus, if we take any commodity, we shall find that it is possible to ascertain with tolerable
certainty the amount of direct labor embodied in it, but that it is equally as impossible to
ascertain the amount of the indirect expenditure of labor power which entered into its making.
In the case of a table, for example, it may be possible to trace with some approximation to
accuracy the labor involved in felling the tree and preparing the lumber out of which the table
was made; the labor directly spent in bringing the lumber to the factory, and the direct labor
expended in making out of the lumber a finished table; allowance may also be made for the labor
embodied in the nails, glue, stain, and other articles used in making the table. So we have
a fairly accurate statement of the direct labor embodied in the table. But what of the labor
used to make the tools of the men who felled the trees and prepared the lumber? What of the
coal miner and the iron miner and the tool maker? And what of the numerous and incalculable
expenditures of labor to make the railroads, the railway engines, and to provide these with
steam-power? What, also, of the machinery in the factory, and of the factory buildings themselves,
and, back of them, again, the tool makers and the providers of raw materials? It is obvious
that no human intellect could ever unravel the tangled skein of human labor, and that in actual
exchange there can be no calculation of the respective labor content of commodities. If the
law of value holds good, it must operate mechanically, automatically. And this it does, through
the incidence of bargaining and the law of supply and demand.

We have noted elsewhere the variations in human capacity and productiveness. Superficial critics
still frequently charge Marx with having overlooked this very obvious fact, whereas it has
not only been fully treated by him, but was actually covered by Smith and Ricardo before Marx!
With these writers and their followers it is the law of averages which solves the difficulties
arising from variations in individual capacity and productivity. It is the average amount of
labor expended in killing the beaver which counts, not the actual individual labor in a specified
case. Nor did these writers overlook the important differentiation between simple, unskilled
labor and labor that is highly skilled. If A in ten hours' labor produces exactly double the
amount of exchange-value which B produces in the same time devoted to labor of another kind,
it is obvious that the labor of B is not equal in value to that of A. Quantity of labor cannot,
therefore, be measured, in individual cases, by time units. Despite a hundred passages which,
detached from their context, seem to imply the contrary, Adam Smith recognized this very clearly,
and attempted to solve the riddle by a differentiation of skilled and unskilled labor in which
he likens skilled labor to a machine; and insists that the labor and time spent in acquiring
the skill which distinguishes skilled labor must be reckoned.[170]

Another frequent criticism of the Marxian theory has not only been answered by Marx himself--is,
in fact, ruled out by the terms of the theory itself--but was amply replied to by Ricardo.[171]
The criticism in question consists in the selection of what may be called "unique values,"
or scarcity values, articles which cannot be reproduced by labor, and whose value is wholly
independent of the quantity of labor originally necessary to produce them. Such articles are
unique specimens of coins and postage stamps, autograph letters, rare manuscripts, Stradivarius
violins, Raphael pictures, Caxton books, articles associated with great personages--such as
Napoleon's snuffbox--great auks' eggs, and so on ad infinitum. No possible amount of human
labor could reproduce these articles, reproduce, that is to say, the exact utilities in them.
Napoleon's snuffbox might be exactly duplicated so far as its physical properties are concerned,
but the association with Napoleon's fingers, the sentimental quality which gives it its special
utility, is not reproducible. But the trade of capitalist society does not consist in the manufacture
and sale of these things, which, after all, form a very insignificant part of the exchange-values
of the world.

III

Marx saw the soul of truth in the labor-value theory, as propounded by his predecessors, especially
Ricardo, and devoted himself to its development and systematization. He has been accused of
plagiarizing his theory from the Ricardians, but it is surely not plagiarism when a thinker
sees the germ of truth in a theory, and, separating it from the mass of confusion and error
which envelops it, restates it in scientific fashion with all its necessary qualifications.
This is precisely what Marx did. He developed the idea of social labor which Ricardo had propounded,
disregarding entirely individual labor. He recognized the absurdity of the contention that
the value of commodities is determined by the amount of labor, either individual or social,
actually embodied in them. If two workers are producing precisely similar commodities, say
coats, and one of them expends twice as much labor as the other and uses tools and methods
representing twice the social labor, it is clearly foolish to suppose that the exchange-value
of his coat will be twice as great as that of the other worker, regardless of the fact that
their utility is equal. Labor, Marx pointed out, has two sides, the qualitative and the quantitative.
The qualitative side, the difference in quality between specially skilled and simply unskilled
labor, is easily recognized, though the relative value of the one compared with the other may
be somewhat obscured. The secret of that obscurity lies hidden in the quantitative side of
labor. Here we must enter upon an abstract inquiry, that part of the Marxian theory which is
most difficult to comprehend. Yet, it is not so very difficult, after all, to understand that
the years devoted to learning his trade, by a mechanical engineer, for instance, during all
of which years he must be provided with the necessities of life, must be reckoned somewhere
and somehow; and that when they are so reckoned, his day's labor may be found to contain, concentrated,
so to speak, an amount of labor time equivalent to two or even many days' simple unskilled
labor time. It may be, and in fact is, quite impossible to set forth mathematically the relation
of the two, for the reason that the process of developing skilled labor is too complex to be
unraveled. Of the fact, however, there can be no doubt.

The real law of value, then, according to Marx, is as follows: Under capitalism, in free competition,
the value of all commodities, other than those unique things which cannot be reproduced by
human labor, is determined by the amount of abstract labor embodied in them; or, better, by
the amount of social human labor power necessary, on the average, for their production. We
may conveniently illustrate this theory by a concrete example. Let us, therefore, return to
our coat-makers. Now, always assuming their equal utility, no one will be willing to pay twice
as much for the coat produced by the slow worker with poor tools as for the other. If the more
economical methods of production employed by the man who makes his coats in half the time taken
by the other man are the methods usually employed in the manufacture of coats, and the time
he takes represents the average time taken to produce a coat, then the average value of coats
will be determined thereby, and coats produced by the slower, less economical process will
command only the same price in the market, the fact that they may embody twice the amount of
actual labor counting for nothing. If we reverse the order of this proposition, and suppose
the slower, less economical methods to be those generally prevailing in the manufacture of
coats, and the quicker, more economical methods to be exceptional, then, all other things being
equal, the exchange-value, of coats will be determined by the amount of labor commonly consumed,
and the fortunate producer who adopts the exceptional, economical methods will, for a time,
reap a golden harvest. Only for a time, however. As the new methods prevail, competition being
the impelling force, they become less and less exceptional, and, finally, the regular, normal
methods of production and the standard of value.

It is this very important qualification, fundamental to the Marxian theory, which is most often
lost sight of by the critics. They persist in applying to individual commodities the test of
comparing the amounts of labor-power actually consumed in their production, and so confound
the Marxian theory with its crude progenitors. In refuting this crude theory, they are quite
oblivious of the fact that Marx himself accomplished that by no means difficult feat. To state
the Marxian theory accurately, we must qualify the bald statement that the exchange-value of
commodities is determined by the amount of labor embodied in them, and state it in the following
manner: The exchange-value of commodities is determined by the amount of average labor at the
time socially necessary for their production. This is determined, not absolutely in individual
cases, but approximately in general, by the bargaining and higgling of the market, to adopt
Adam Smith's well-known phrase.

Now, this theory applies to those things, exclusive of the category of "unique values," which
cannot be made by labor and are commonly supposed to owe their value to their rarity. For example,
we may take diamonds. A man walking along the great wastes of the African karoo comes across
a little stream. As he stoops to drink, he sees in the water a number of glittering diamonds.
To pick them out is the work of a few minutes only, but the diamonds are worth many thousands
of dollars. The law of value above outlined applies just as much to them as to any other commodity.
The value of diamonds is determined by the amount of labor expenditure necessary on an average
to procure them. If the normal method of obtaining diamonds were simply to go to the nearest
stream and pick them out, their value would fall, possibly to zero:--

     "When we have nothing else to wear
     But cloth of gold and satins rare,
     For cloth of gold we cease to care--
       Up goes the price of shoddy."

IV

Most writers do not distinguish between price and value with sufficient clearness, using the
terms as if they were synonymous and interchangeable. Where utilities are exchanged directly
one for another, as in the barter of primitive society, there is no need of a price-form to
express value. In highly developed societies, however, where the very magnitude of production
and exchange makes direct barter impossible, and where the objects to be exchanged are not
commonly the product of individual labor, a medium of exchange becomes necessary; a something
which is generally recognized as a safe and stable commodity which can be used to express in
terms of its own weight, size, shape, or color, the value of other commodities to be exchanged.
This is the function of money. In various times and places wheat, shells, skins of animals,
beads, powder, tobacco, and a multitude of other things, have served as money, but for various
reasons, more or less obvious, the precious metals, gold and silver, have been most favored.

In all commercial countries to-day, one or other of these metals, or both of them, serves as
the recognized medium of exchange. They are commodities also, and when we say that the value
of a commodity is a certain amount of gold, we equally express the value of that amount of
gold in terms of the commodity in question. As commodities, the precious metals are subject
to the same laws as other commodities. If gold should be discovered in such abundance that
it became as plentiful and easy to obtain as coal, its value would be no greater than that
of coal. It might, conceivably, still be used as the medium of exchange, but it would--unless
protected by legislation or otherwise from the operation of economic law, and so given a monopoly-price--have
an exchange-value equal to that of coal, a ton of the one being equal to a ton of the other--provided,
of course, that its utility remained. Since the scarcity of gold is an important element in
its utility valuation, creating and fostering the desire for its possession, that utility-value
might largely disappear if gold became as plentiful as coal, in which case it would not have
the same value as coal, and might cease to be a commodity at all.

Price, then, is the expression of value in terms of some other commodity, which, generally
used for that purpose of expressing the value of other commodities, we call money. It is only
an approximation of value, and subject to a much greater fluctuation than value itself. It
may, for a time, fall far below or rise above value, but in a free market--the only condition
in which the operation of the law may be judged--sooner or later the equilibrium will be regained.
Where monopoly exists, the free market condition being non-existent, price may be constantly
elevated above value. Monopoly-price is an artificial elevation of price above value, and must
be considered separately as the abrogation of the law of value.

Failure to discriminate between value and its price-expression, or symbol, has led to endless
difficulty. It lies at the bottom of the naïve theory that value depends upon the relation
of supply and demand. Lord Lauderdale's famous theory has found much support among later economists,
though it is now rather unpopular when stated in its old, simple form. Disguised in the so-called
Austrian theory of final utility, it has attained considerable vogue.[172] The theory is plausible
and convincing to the ordinary mind. Every day we see illustrations of its working: prices
are depressed when there is an oversupply, and elevated when the demand of would-be consumers
exceeds the supply of the commodities they desire to buy. It is not so easy to see that these
effects are temporary, and that there is an automatic adjustment going on. Increased demand
raises prices for a while, but it also calls forth an increase in supply which tends to restore
the old price level, or may even force prices below it. In the latter case, the supply falls
off and prices find their real level. The relation of supply to demand causes an oscillation
of prices, but it is not the determinant of value. When prices rise above a certain level,
demand slackens or ceases, and prices are inevitably lowered. Prices may and do fall with a
decreased demand, but it is clear that unless the producers can get a price approximately equal
to the value of their commodities, they will cease to produce them, and the supply will diminish
or cease altogether. Ultimately, therefore, the fluctuations of price through the lack of equilibrium
between supply and demand adjust themselves, and prices must tend constantly to approximate values.

Monopoly-price is, as already observed, an artificial price in the sense that the laws of free
market exchange do not apply to it. The "unique utilities," things not reproducible by human
labor, command what might be termed natural monopoly-prices. There are many other commodities,
however, the price of which is not regulated by the quantity of social human labor necessary
to produce them, but simply by the desire of the purchasers and the means they have of gratifying
it and the power of the sellers to control the market and exclude effective competition. Since
Karl Marx wrote, the exceptions to his law of value have become more numerous, as a result
of the changes in industrial and commercial conditions. The development of great monopolies
and near-monopolies has greatly increased the number of commodities which, for considerable
periods, are placed outside the sphere of the labor-value theory, their price depending upon
their marginal utility, irrespective of the labor actually embodied in them or necessary to
their reproduction. It may, in the opinion of the present writer, be said in criticism of the
followers of Marx that they have not carried on his work, but largely contented themselves
with repeating generalizations which, true when made, no longer fit all the facts. But that
is not a criticism of Marx, or of his work. What he professed to make was an analysis of the
methods of production and exchange in competitive capitalist society. His followers have largely
failed to allow for the enormous changes which have taken place, and go on repeating, unchanged,
his phrases.

Professor Seligman has pointed out that Ricardo's contention that value is determined by the
cost of production, and the contention of Jevons that value is determined by marginal utility,
are not mutually exclusive, but, on the contrary, complementary to each other.[173] The present
writer has long contended that the marginal utility theory and the Marxian labor-value theory
are likewise not antagonistic but complementary.[174] This is not the place to enter into the
elaborate discussion which this contention involves. Only a brief indication of the argument
for the claim is here and now possible. First, as we have seen, Marx is very careful to insist
that utility is essential to value, and that the utility must be a social utility. But social
utility does not come of itself, from the skies or elsewhere. It is, so far as the vast majority
of commodities is concerned, the product of labor. It is true that the value of a thing is
never independent of its social utility; it is likewise true that this is determined by the
social labor necessary to the reproduction of that utility. To regard the two theories as antagonistic,
it seems to be necessary to say either (1) that the quantity of social labor necessary to produce
certain commodities determines their value, utterly regardless of the amount of their social
utility, or (2) that we estimate the social utility of commodities, estimate what we are willing
to pay for them, utterly regardless of the labor necessary, on an average, for their reproduction.
The latter contention would be absurd, and the former would involve the abandonment of the
initial premises of the Marxian theory, contained in his definition of a commodity. In so far
as the basis of social utility is the social labor necessary for its production, the labor-value
theory of Marx may be said, I think, to include the marginal utility law, as one of the forms
in which it operates.

V

Labor, the source and determinant of value, has, per se, no value. Only when it is embodied
in certain forms has it any value. If a man labors hard digging holes and refilling them, his
labor has no value. What the capitalist buys is not labor, but labor-power. Wages in general
is a form of payment for a given amount of labor-power, measured by duration and skill. The
laborer sells brain and muscle power, which is thus placed at the temporary disposal of the
capitalist to be used up like any other commodity that he buys. The philosopher Hobbes, in
his "Leviathan," clearly anticipated Marx in thus distinguishing between labor and laboring
power in the saying, "The value or worth of a man is ... so much as would be given for the
Use of his Power." The power to labor assumes the commodity form, being at once a use-value
and an exchange-value. At first sight it appears that piecework is an exception to the general
rule that the capitalist buys labor-power and not labor itself. It seems that when piece-wages
are paid it is not the machine, the living labor-power, but the product of the machine, labor
actually performed, that is bought. Superficially, this is so, of course, but it does not affect
the principle laid down, because, as a matter of fact, the piecework system is only one of
the means used to secure a maximum of labor-power. The average output of pieceworkers in a
trade always tends to become the standard output for the time-workers, and, on the other hand,
the average wage of pieceworkers tends to keep very near the standard of time-wages.

Now, as a commodity, labor-power is subject to the same laws as all other commodities. Its
price, wages, fluctuates just as the price of all other commodities does, and bears the same
relation to its value. It may be temporarily affected by the preponderance of supply over demand,
or of demand over supply; it may be made the subject of monopoly in certain cases. There is,
therefore, no such thing as an "iron law" of wages, any more than there is an "iron law" of
prices for other commodities. Lassalle took the Ricardian law of wages and, by means of his
characteristic exaggeration, distorted it out of all semblance to truth. Says Ricardo: "The
natural price of labor, therefore, depends on the price of the food, necessaries, and conveniences
required for the support of the laborer and his family. With a rise in the price of food and
necessaries, the natural price of labor will rise; with the fall in their price, the natural
price of labor will fall."[175] This Lassalle made the basis of his famous "iron law," according
to which 96 per cent of the wage-workers were precluded from improving their economic position.
Lassalle's chief fault lay in that he made no allowance whatever for either state interference,
or the organized influence of the workers themselves. He also attaches too little importance
to what Marx calls the traditional standards of living.[176] It is nevertheless true that the
price of labor-power, wages, tends to approximate its value, just as the price of all other
commodities tends, under normal conditions, to approximate their value.

And just as the value of other commodities is determined by the amount of social labor necessary
on an average for their reproduction, so the value of labor-power is likewise determined. Wages
tend to a point at which they will cover the average cost of the necessary means of subsistence
for the workers and their families, in any given time and place, under the conditions and according
to the standards of living generally prevailing. Trade union action, for example, may force
wages above that point, or undue stress in the competitive labor market may force wages below
it. While, however, a trade union may bring about what is virtually a monopoly-price for the
labor-power of its members, there is always a counter tendency in the other direction, sometimes
even to the lowering of the standard of subsistence itself to the minimum of things required
for physical existence.

To class human labor-power with pig iron as a commodity, subject to the same laws, may at first
seem fantastic to the reader, but a careful survey of the facts will fully justify the classification.
The capacity of the worker to labor depends upon his securing certain things; his labor-power
has to be reproduced from day to day, for which a certain supply of food, clothing, and other
necessities of life is essential. Even with these supplied constantly, the worker sooner or
later wears out and dies. If the race is not to be extinguished, a certain supply of the necessities
of life must be provided for the children during the years of their development to the point
where their labor-power becomes marketable. The average cost of production in the case of labor-power
includes, therefore, the necessities for a wife and family as well as for the individual worker.
Far from being the iron law Lassalle imagined, this law of wages is one of considerable elasticity.
The standard of living itself, far from being a fixed thing, determined only by the necessities
of physical existence, varies according to occupational groups; to localities sometimes, as
a result of historical development; to nationality and race, as a result of tradition; to the
general standard of intelligence, and the degree in which the workers are organized for the
promotion of their economic interests. The advance in the culture of the people as a whole,
expressing itself in legislation for compulsory education, the abolition of child labor, improvement
of housing and general sanitary conditions, and so on, tends to raise the standard of living.
Finally, the fluctuations in the price of labor-power due to the operation of the law of supply
and demand are much more important than Lassalle imagined.

This living commodity, labor-power, differs in one remarkable way from all other commodities,
in that when it is used up in the process of the production of other commodities in which it
is embodied, it creates new value in the process of being used up, and embodies that new value
in the commodity it assists to produce. In the case of raw materials and machinery this is
not so. In the manufacture of tables, for example, the wood used up is transformed into tables,
embodied in them, but the wood has added nothing to its own value. The same is true of machinery.
But with human labor-power it is otherwise. The capitalist buys from the laborer his labor-power
at its full value as a commodity. But the laborer, in embodying that labor-power in some concrete
form, creates more value than his wages represents. For the commodity he sells, his power to
labor, he has been paid its full value, namely, the social labor-cost of its production; but
that power may be capable of producing the equivalent of twice its own cost of production.
This is the central idea of the famous and much-misunderstood Marxian theory of surplus-value,
by which the method of capitalism, the exploitation of the wage-workers, and the resulting
class antagonisms of the system are explained. This theory becomes the groundwork of all the
social theories and movements protesting against and seeking to end the exploitation of the
laboring masses. To understand it is, therefore, of paramount importance.

VI

As we have seen in an earlier chapter, Marx was not the first to recognize that the secret
of capitalism, the object of capitalist industry, is the extraction of surplus-value from the
labor-power of the worker. Nor was he the first to use the term. By no means a happy term,
since it adds to the difficulty of comprehending the meaning and nature of value, Marx took
it from the current economic discussion of his time as a term already fairly well understood.
What we owe to the genius of Marx is an explanation of the manner in which surplus-value is
extracted by the capitalist from the labor-power of the worker, and the part it plays in capitalist
society.

The essence of the theory can be very briefly stated, but its demonstration involves, naturally,
a more extensive study. Under normal conditions, the worker will produce a value equivalent
to his means of subsistence, or to the wages actually paid to him, in a very small number of
hours. If he owned and controlled the means of production,--land, machinery, raw materials,
and so on,--he would, therefore, need to work only so many hours as the production of the necessities
of life for himself and his family required. But the laborer in capitalist society does not
own the means of production, that condition being quite incompatible with machine production
upon a large scale. A separation of the worker from the ownership of the means of production
has taken place as one of the inevitable results of industrial evolution. So the laborer must
sell the only commodity he has to sell, namely, his labor-power. He sells the utility of that
commodity to the capitalist for its exchange-value, or market price. Like any other commodity,
the utility of labor-power, its use-value, belongs to the purchaser, the capitalist. It is
his to use as he sees fit. He has it used to produce other commodities which he in turn hopes
to sell--has the labor-power used up in the manufacture of other commodities, just as he has
the raw materials used up. He buys, for example, the labor-power of the workers for a day of
ten hours. In five hours, say, the worker creates value equivalent to his wages, but he does
not cease at that point. He goes on working for another five hours, thus producing in a day
double the amount of his wages, the exchange-value of the labor-power he sold the capitalist.
Thus the capitalist, having paid wages equivalent to the product of five hours, receives the
product of ten hours. This balance represents the surplus-value (Mehrwerth).

This takes place all through industry. If the capitalist employs a thousand workers under these
conditions, each day he receives the product of five thousand hours over and above the product
actually paid for. This constitutes his income. If the capitalist owned the land, machinery,
and raw materials, absolutely, without incumbrances of any kind, the whole of that surplus-value
would, naturally, belong to him. But as a general rule this is not the case. He rents the land
and must pay rent to the landlord, or he works upon borrowed capital and must pay interest
upon loans, so that the surplus-value extracted from the laborer must be divided into rent,
interest, and profit. But how the surplus-value is divided among landlords, moneylenders, creditors,
speculators, and actual employers is a matter of absolutely no moment to the workers as a class.
That is why such movements as that represented by the followers of Henry George fail to vitally
interest the working class.[177] The division of the surplus-value wrung from the toil of the
workers gives rise to much quarrel and strife within the ranks of the exploiting class, but
the working class recognizes, and vaguely and instinctively feels where it does not clearly
recognize, that it has no interest in these quarrels. All that interests it vitally is how
to lessen the extent of the exploitation to which it is subjected, and how ultimately to end
that exploitation altogether. That is the objective of the movement for the socialization of
the means of life.

Such, briefly stated, is the theory. We may illustrate it by the following example: Let us
say the average cost of a day's subsistence is the product of five hours' social labor, which
is represented by a wage of $1 per day. In a factory there are 1000 workers. Their labor-power
they have sold at its exchange value, $1 per day per man, a total of $1000. They use up $1000
worth of labor-power, then. They also use up $1000 worth of raw material and wear out the plant
to the extent of $100 in the course of their work. Now, instead of working five hours each,
that being the amount of time necessary to reproduce the value of their wages, as above described,
they all work ten hours. Thus, in place of the $1000 they received as wages for the labor-power
they sold, they create labor products, valued at just twice that sum, $2000. According to our
suppositions, therefore, the gross value of the day's product will be $3100, the whole of it
belonging to the capitalist, for the simple and sufficient reason that he bought and paid for,
at their full value as commodities, all the elements entering into its production, the machinery,
materials, and labor-power. The capitalist pays,--

     For labor-power                           $1000
     For materials                              1000
     For repairs and replacement of machinery    100
                                                        -----
     He receives, for the gross product         3100    $2100
     The surplus-value is, therefore            1000

and this sum is the fund from which rent, interests, and profits must be paid.

It will be observed that there is no moral condemnation of the capitalist involved in this
illustration. He simply buys the commodity, labor-power, at its full market price, as in the
case of all other commodities. No ethical argument enters into it at all. It is very evident,
however, that the interest of the capitalist will be to get as much surplus-value as possible,
by buying labor-power at the lowest price possible, prolonging the working day, and intensifying
the productivity of the labor-power he buys, while the interest of the workman will be equally
against these things. Here we have the cause of class antagonism--not in the speeches of agitators,
but in the facts of industrial life.

This is the Marxian theory of surplus-value in a nutshell. Rent, interest, and profit, the
three great divisions of capitalist income into which this surplus-value is divided, are thus
traced to the exploitation of labor, resting fundamentally upon the ownership by the exploiting
class of the means of production. Other economists, both before and since Marx, have tried
to explain the source of capitalist income in very different ways. An early theory was that
profit originates in exchange, through "buying cheap and selling dear." That this is so in
the case of individual traders is obvious. If A sells to B commodities above their value, or
buys commodities from him below their value, it is plain that he gains by it. But it is equally
plain that B loses. If one group of capitalists gains what another group loses, the gains and
losses balance each other; there is no gain to the capitalist class as a whole. Yet that is
precisely what occurs--the capitalist class as a whole does gain, and gain enormously, despite
the losses of individual members of that class. It is that gain to the great body of capitalists,
that general increase in their wealth, which must be accounted for, and which exchange cannot
explain. Only when we think of the capitalist class buying labor-power from outside its own
ranks, generally at its natural value, and using it, is the problem solved. The commodity which
the capitalist buys creates a value greater than its own in being used up.

The theory that profit is the wages of risk is answerable in substantially the same way. It
does not in any way explain the increase in the aggregate wealth of the capitalist class to
say that the individual capitalist must have a chance to receive interest upon his money in
order to induce him to turn it into capital, to hazard losing it wholly or in part. While the
theory of risk helps to explain some features of capitalism, the changes in the flow of capital
into certain forms of investment, and, to some small extent, the commercial crises incidental
thereto, it does not explain the vital problem, the source of capitalist income. The chances
of gain, as a premium for the risks involved, explain satisfactorily enough the action of the
gambler when he enters into a game of roulette or faro. It cannot be said, however, that the
aggregate wealth of the gamblers is increased by playing roulette or faro. Then, too, the risks
of the laborers are vastly more vital than those of the capitalist. Yet the premium for their
risks of health and life itself does not appear, unless, indeed, it be in their wages, in which
case the most superficial glance at our industrial statistics will show that wages are by no
means highest in those occupations where the risks are greatest and most numerous. Further,
the wages of the risks for capitalists and laborers alike are drawn from the same source, the
product of the laborers' toil.

To consider, even briefly, all the varied theories of surplus-value other than these would
be a prolonged, dull, and profitless task. The theory of abstinence, that profit is the just
reward of the capitalist for saving part of his wealth and using it as a means of production,
is answerable by a priori arguments and by a vast volume of facts. Abstinence obviously produces
nothing; it can only save the wealth already produced by labor, and no automatic increase of
that saved-up wealth is possible. If it is to increase without the labor of its owner, it can
only be through the exploitation of the labor of others, so that the abstinence theory in no
manner controverts the Marxian position. On the other hand, we see that those whose wealth
increases most rapidly are not given to frugality or abstinence by any means. It may, certainly,
be possible for an individual to save enough by practicing frugality and abstinence to enable
him to invest in some profitable enterprise, but the source of his profit is not his abstinence.
That must be sought elsewhere. Abstinence may provide him with the means for taking the profit,
but the profit itself must come from the value created by human labor-power over and above
its cost of production.

Still less satisfactory is the idea that surplus-value is nothing more than the "wages of superintendence,"
or the "rent of ability." This theory has been advocated with much specious argument. Essentially
it involves the contention that there is no distinction between wages and profits, or between
capitalists and laborers; that the capitalist is a worker, and his profits simply wages for
his useful and highly important work of directing industry. It is a bold theory with a very
small basis of fact. Whoever honestly considers it, must, one would think, see that it is both
absurd and untrue. Not only is the larger part of industry to-day managed by salaried employees
who have no part, or only a very insignificant part, in the ownership of the concerns they
manage, but the profits are distributed among shareholders who, as shareholders, have never
contributed service of any kind to the industries in which they are shareholders. Whatever
services are performed, even by the figure-head "dummy" directors of companies, are paid for
before profits are considered at all. This is the invincible answer to such criticisms as that
of Mr. Mallock, that Marx and his followers have not recognized "the functions of the directive
ability of the few." When all the salaries of the directing "few" have been paid, as well as
the wages of the many, and the cost of all materials and maintenance of machinery, there remains
a surplus to be distributed among those who belong neither to the "laboring many" nor the "directing
few." That profit Mr. Mallock cannot explain away. Marx himself, in "Capital," called attention
to the "directing ability of the few," quite as clearly as Mr. Mallock has done. He first shows
how the "collective power of masses" is really a new creation; that it involves a special kind
of leadership, or directing authority, just as an orchestra does; then he proceeds to point
out the development of a special class of supervisors and directors of industry, "a special
kind of wage laborer.... The work of supervision becomes their established and exclusive function."[178]
Socialists, contrary to Mr. Mallock, have not overlooked the function exercised by the directing
few, but they have pointed out that when these have been paid, their salaries being sometimes
almost fabulous, there is still a surplus-value to be distributed among those who have not
shared in the production, either as mental or manual workers. As Mr. Algernon Lee says:--

"The profits produced in many American mills, factories, mines, and railway systems go in part
to Englishmen or Belgians or Germans who never set foot in America, and who obviously can have
no share in even the mental labor of direction. A certificate of stock may belong to a child,
to a maniac, to an imbecile, to a prisoner behind the bars, and it draws profit for its owner
just the same. Stocks and bonds may lie for months or years in a safe-deposit vault, while
an estate is being disputed, before their ownership is determined; but whoever is declared
to be the owner gets the dividends and interest "earned" during all that time."[179]

It is an easy task to set up imaginary figures labeled "Marxism," and then to demolish them
by learned argument--but the occupation is as fruitless as it is easy. It remains the one central
fact of capitalism, however, that a surplus-value is created by the working class and taken
by the exploiting class, from which develops the class struggle of our time.

FOOTNOTES:

[163] The People's Marx, by Gabriel Deville, page 288.

[164] Capital, Vol. I, Kerr edition, page 41.

[165] Professor J. S. Nicholson, a rather pretentious critic of Marx, has called sunshine a
commodity because of its utility, Elements of Political Economy, page 24. Upon the same ground,
the song of the skylark and the sound of ocean waves might be called commodities. Such use
of language serves for nothing but the obscuring of thought.

[166] William Petty, A Treatise on Taxes and Constitutions (1662), pages 31-32.

[167] The Wealth of Nations, Vol. I, Chapters V-VI.

[168] Benjamin Franklin, Remarks and Facts Relative to the American Paper Money (1764), page 267.

Marx thus speaks of Franklin as an economist: "The first sensible analysis of exchange-value
as labor-time, made so clear as to seem almost commonplace, is to be found in the work of a
man of the New World, where the bourgeois relations of production, imported together with their
representatives, sprouted rapidly in a soil which made up its lack of historical traditions
with a surplus of humus. That man was Benjamin Franklin, who formulated the fundamental law
of modern political economy in his first work, which he wrote when a mere youth (A Modest Inquiry
into the Nature and Necessity of a Paper Currency), and published in 1721." A Contribution
to the Critique of Political Economy, by Karl Marx, English translation by N. I. Stone, 1894,
page 62.

[169] David Ricardo, Principles of Political Economy and Taxation, Chapter I, § III.

[170] Wealth of Nations, Book I, Chapter X.

[171] Principles of Political Economy and Taxation, Chapter I, Sec. 1, § 4.

[172] See "The Final Futility of Final Utility," in H. M. Hyndman's Economics of Socialism,
for a remarkable criticism of the "final utility" theory, showing its identity with the doctrine
of supply and demand as the basis of value.

I refer to the theory of final or marginal utility as the "so-called Austrian theory" for the
purpose, mainly, or calling attention to the fact that, as Professor Seligman has ably and
clearly demonstrated, it was conceived and excellently stated by W. F. Lloyd, Professor of
Political Economy at Oxford, in 1833. (See the paper, On Some Neglected British Economists,
in the Economic Journal, V, xiii, pages 357-363.) This was two decades before Gossen and a
generation earlier than Menger and Jevons. In view of this fact, the criticism of Marx for
his lack of originality by members of the "Austrian" school is rather amusing.

[173] Principles of Economics, by Edwin R. A. Seligman (1905), page 198.

[174] Cf., for instance, my little volume, in the Standard Socialist Series (Kerr), entitled
Capitalist and Laborer; Part II, Modern Socialism, page 112.

[175] Principles of Political Economy and Taxation, Chapter V, § 35.

[176] Value, Price, and Profit, by Karl Marx, Chapter XIV.

[177] It is worthy of note that the taxation of land values, commonly associated with the name
of Henry George, was advocated as a palliative in the Communist Manifesto of Marx and Engels.

[178] Capital, by Karl Marx, Vol. I, Chapter XIII, of Part IV.

[179] The Worker (New York), February 5, 1905.

CHAPTER IX

OUTLINES OF THE SOCIALIST STATE

I

Many persons who have thought of Socialism as a scheme, the plan of a new social edifice, have
been disappointed not to find in all the voluminous writings of Marx any detailed description
of such a plan, any forecast of the future. But when they have grasped the fundamental principles
of the Marxian system of thought, they realize that it would be absurd to attempt to give detailed
specifications of the Socialist state. As the Socialist movement has outgrown the influence
of the early Utopians, its adherents have abandoned the habit of speculating upon the practical
application of Socialist principles in future society. The formulation of schemes, more or
less detailed, has given place to firm insistence that Socialism must be regarded as a principle,
namely, the efficient organization of wealth production and distribution to the end that the
exploitation of the wealth producers by a privileged class may be rendered impossible. Whatever
contributes to that end is a contribution to the fulfillment of the Socialist ideal.

Still, it is natural and inevitable that earnest Socialists and students of Socialism should
seek something more tangible by way of a description of the future state than the bald statement
that it will be free from the struggle between exploiting and exploited classes. The question
is, can we go further in our attempt to scan the future without entering the realms of Utopian
speculation? If Socialism is, objectively considered, a state of society which is being developed
in the womb of the present, are there any signs by which its peculiar form and spirit, as distinguished
from the form and spirit of the present, may be visualized? Within certain limits, an affirmative
answer seems possible to each of these questions. There are certain fundamental principles
which may be said to be essential to the existence of Socialist society. Without them, the
Socialist state cannot exist. Regardless of the fact that Karl Marx never attempted to describe
his ideal, to give such a description of his concept of the next epoch in evolution as would
enable us to compare it with the present and to measure the difference, it is probable that
every Socialist makes, privately at least, his own forecast of the manner in which the new
society must shape itself.

