NEW SERIES.   SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1852.   PRICE 1-1/2d.

A GLANCE AT CONTINENTAL RAILWAYS.

When lately making a pretty extensive continental excursion, we were in no small degree gratified
with the progress made in the construction and operation of railways. These railways, from
all that could be seen, were doing much to improve the countries traversed, and extend a knowledge
of English comforts; for it must always be borne in mind that the railway system, with its
locomotives, carriages, waiting-rooms, commodious and cheap transit, and other matters, is
essentially English. Hence, wherever one sees a railway in full operation, he may be said to
see a bit of England. And is not this something to be proud of? The railway being your true
civiliser, England may be said to have sent out a missionary of improvement, whom nothing can
withstand. The continent, with all its stupid despotisms, must improve, and become enlightened
in spite of itself.

The newspapers lately described the opening of the line of railway from Paris to Strasbourg.
Those who know what travelling in France was a few years ago, cannot wonder that Louis Napoleon
should have made this the occasion of a popular demonstration. The opening of this line of
railway is an important European event; certainly it is a great thing for both France and Germany.
English travellers may also think much of it. A tourist can now journey from London to Paris--Paris
to the upper part of the Rhine at Strasbourg, going through a most interesting country by the
way--then go down the Rhine to Cologne by steamer; next, on by railway to Ostend; cross by
steamer to Dover; and, finally, reach London--thus doing in a few days, and all by force of
steam, what a short time ago must have been done imperfectly, and with great toil and expense.
Still more to ease the journey, a branch railway from the Strasbourg line is about being opened
from near Metz, by Saarbrück, to Manheim; by which means the Rhine will be reached by a shorter
cut, and be considerably more accessible. In a month or two, it will be possible to travel
from Paris to Frankfort in twenty-five hours. All that is wanted to complete the Strasbourg
line, is to strike off a branch from Metz to Luxembourg and Treves; for by reaching this last-mentioned
city--a curious, ancient place, which we had the pleasure of visiting--the traveller is on
the Moselle at the spot where it becomes navigable, and he descends with ease by steamer to
Coblenz. And so the Rhine would be reached from Paris at three important points.

Paris, as a centre, is pushing out other lines, with intermediate branches. Marseille, Bordeaux,
Nantes, Rouen, Dieppe, Boulogne, Calais, and Lille, are the outposts of this series of radiation.
The latest move is a line from Caen to Cherbourg; it will start from the Paris and Rouen Railway
at Rosny, 40 miles from Paris, and proceed through Caen to the great naval station at Cherbourg--a
distance of 191 miles from Rosny. By the time the great lines in France are finished--probably
3500 miles in the whole--it is expected that the total expenditure will amount, in round numbers,
to a hundred millions sterling.

It is gratifying to know, that the small German powers which border on France have been most
active in providing themselves with railways; not only for their own accommodation, but to
join the lines of other countries; so as to make great trunk-thoroughfares through their dominions.
There seems to be a cordiality in making these junctions, for general accommodation, that cannot
but deserve praise. The truth, however, is, that all these petty states are glad to get hold
of means for bringing travellers--that is, money-spenders--to their cities and watering-places,
and for developing their long-hidden resources. For example, in the district lying between
Saarbrück and Manheim, there exist vast beds of coal, and powerful brine-springs; but hitherto,
in consequence of being out of the way of traffic, and there being only wretched cars drawn
by cows, as the means of locomotion, this great mineral wealth has been locked up, and next
thing to useless. What an outlet will the Strasbourg and Manheim Railway furnish! Paris may
be as well and as cheaply supplied with coal as London.

Belgium--a kind of little England--has for a number of years been well provided with railways;
and you may go by locomotion towards its frontiers in all directions, except one--namely, that
of Holland. This odd exception, of course, arose from the ill-will that has subsisted for a
number of years between the Belgians and Dutch; the latter being not at all pleased with the
violent disjunction of the Netherlands. However, that coolness is now passing off. The two
neighbours begin to find that ill-nature does not pay, and, like sensible people, are negotiating
for a physical union by rail, seeing that a political one is out of the question. In short,
a railway is proposed to be laid down in an easterly direction from the Antwerp branch, towards
the border of Holland; and by means of steam-boat ferries across the Maas and other mouths
of the Rhine, the junction will be effected with the Rotterdam and Amsterdam series of railways.
The north of Holland is yet a stranger to railways, nor are the towns of such importance as
to lead us to expect any great doings there. But the north German region--from the frontiers
of Holland to those of Russia and Poland, a distance of something like 1000 miles--is rapidly
filling up the chasms in its railway net-work. Emden and Osnaburg and Gottingen in the west,
Danzig and Königsberg and Memel in the east, are yet unprovided; but almost all the other towns
of any note in Prussia and North Germany are now linked together, and most or all of the above
six will be so in a few years.

The Scandinavian countries are more interesting in respect to our present subject, on account
of their railway enterprises being wholly written in the future tense. Denmark has so little
continuous land, Sweden has so many lakes, and Norway so many mountains, that, irrespective
of other circumstances, railways have not yet reached those countries. They are about to do
so, however. Hitherto, Denmark has received almost the whole of its foreign commodities viâ
the two Hanse towns--Hamburg and Bremen; and has exported its cattle and transmitted its mails
by the same routes. The Schleswig-Holstein war has strengthened a wish long felt in Denmark
to shake off this dependence; but good railways and good steam-ship ports will be necessary
for this purpose. When, in April 1851, a steamer crossed rapidly from Lowestoft to Hjerting,
and brought back a cargo of cattle, the Danes felt suddenly independent of the Hamburghers;
but the route from Hjerting to Copenhagen is so bad and tiresome, that much must yet be done
before a commercial transit can really be established. There was at that time only an open
basket-wagon on the route; there has since been established a diligence; but a railway will
be the only effective means of transit. Here we must correct a mistake in the last paper: Denmark
is not quite without railway accommodation; there is about 15 miles of railway from Copenhagen
to Roeskilde, and this is to be continued across the island of Zealand to Korsör. The Lowestoft
project has led to important plans; for a railway has been marked out from Hamburg, through
the entire length of Holstein and Schleswig to the north of Jütland, where five hours' steaming
will give access to the Swedish coast; while an east and west line from Hjerting to Copenhagen,
with two breaks at the Little Belt and the Great Belt, are also planned. If Denmark can by
degrees raise the requisite capital, both of these trunk-lines will probably be constructed.

Norway has just commenced its railway enterprises. It seems strange to find the familiar names
of Stephenson and Bidder, Peto and Brassey, connected with first-stone layings, and health-drinkings,
&c., in remote Norway; but this is one among many proofs of the ubiquity of English capital
and enterprise. The government of Norway has conceded the line to an English company, by whom
it will be finished in 1854. The railway will be 50 miles in length; it will extend from Christiania
to Lake Miösen, and will connect the capital with an extensive chain of internal navigation.
The whole risk seems to have been undertaken by the English company; but the benefits will
be mutual for both companies--direct steam-communication from Christiania to some English port
being one feature in the comprehensive scheme.

In Russia, the enterprises are so autocratic, and ordinary joint-stock operations are so rare,
that our Stock Exchange people know very little about them. The great lines of railway in Russia,
either being constructed or definitely planned, are from Warsaw to Cracow (about 170 miles);
Warsaw to St Petersburg (680 miles); Moscow to St Petersburg (400 miles); from a point on the
Volga to another point on the Don (105 miles); and from Kief to Odessa, in Southern Russia.
The great tie which will bind Russia to the rest of Europe, will be the Warsaw and St Petersburg
Railway--a vast work, which nothing but imperial means will accomplish. Whether all these lines
will be opened by 1862, it is impossible to predict; Russia has to feel its way towards civilisation.
During the progress of the Moscow and St Petersburg Railway, a curious enterprise was determined
on. According to the New York Tribune, Major Whistler, who had the charge of the construction
of the railway, proposed to the emperor that the rolling-stock should be made in Russia, instead
of imported, Messrs Harrison, Winans, and Eastwick, engineers of the United States, accepted
a contract to effect this. They were to have the use of some machine-works at Alexandroffsky;
the labour of 500 serfs belonging to those works at low wages; and the privilege of importing
coal, iron, steel, and other necessary articles, duty free. In this way a large supply of locomotives
and carriages was manufactured, to the satisfaction of the emperor, and the profit of the contractors.
The managers and foremen were all English or American; but the workmen and labourers, from
2000 to 3000 in number, were nearly all serfs, who bought their time from their masters for
an agreed period, being induced by the wages offered for their services: they were found to
be excellent imitative workmen, perfectly docile and obedient.

Our attention now turns south-westward: we cross Poland and Germany, and come to the Alps.
To traverse this mountain barrier will be among the great works of the future, so far as the
iron pathway is concerned. In the early part of 1851, the Administration of Public Works in
Switzerland drew up a sketch of a complete system of railways for that country. The system
includes a line to connect Bâle with the Rhenish railways; another to traverse the Valley of
the Aar, so as to connect Lakes Zurich, Constance, and Geneva; a junction of this last-named
line with Lucerne, in order to connect it with the Pass of St Gothard; a line from Lake Constance
to the Grisons; a branch connecting Berne with the Aar-Valley line; and some small isolated
lines in the principal trading valleys. The whole net-work of these railways is about 570 English
miles; and the cost estimated at about L.4,000,000 sterling. It scarcely needs remark, that
in such a peculiar country as Switzerland, many years must elapse before even an approach to
such a railway net-work can be made.

To drive a railway across the Alps themselves will probably be first effected by the Austrians.
The railway through the Austrian dominions to the Adriatic at Trieste, although nearly complete,
is cut in two by a formidable elevation at the point where the line crosses the eastern spur
of the great Alpine system. At present, travellers have to post the distance of seventy miles
from Laybach to Trieste, until the engineers have surmounted the barrier which lies in their
way. The trial of locomotives at Sömmering, noticed in the newspapers a few months ago, related
to the necessity of having powerful engines to carry the trains up the inclines of this line.
Further west, the Alpine projects are hidden in the future. The Bavarian Railway, at present
ending at Munich, is intended to be carried southward, traversing the Tyrol, through the Brenner
Pass, to Innsprück and Bautzen, following the ordinary route to Trieste, and finally uniting
at Verona with the Italian railways. This has not yet been commenced. Westward, again, there
is the Würtemberg Railway, which ends at Friedrichshafen on Lake Constance. It is proposed
to continue this line from the southern shore of the lake, across the Alps by the Pass of the
Splügen, and so join the Italian railways at Como. This, too, is in nubibus; the German States
and Piedmont are favourable to it; but the engineering difficulties and the expense will be
enormous. Other Piedmontese projects have been talked about, for crossing the Alps at different
points, and some one among them will probably be realised in the course of years. Meanwhile,
Piedmont has a heavy task on hand in constructing the railway from Genoa to Turin, which is
being superintended by Mr Stephenson; the Apennines are being crossed by a succession of tunnels,
embankments, and viaducts, as stupendous as anything yet executed in Europe.

In Central Italy, a railway convention has been signed, which, if carried out, would be important
for that country. It was agreed to in 1851 by the Papal, Austrian, Tuscan, Parmese, and Modenese
governments. The object is to construct a net-work of railways, each state executing and paying
for its own. Austria is to do the work as far as Piacenza and Mantua; Tuscany is to finish
its lines from Pistoja to Florence and Lucca; the Papal government is to connect Bologna with
both the former; and the small states are to carry out their respective portions. The great
difficulty will be, to cut through the Apennines, which at present sever Tuscany from the other
states; but a greater still will be the moral one, arising from the disordered state of Italy.
Rome has conceded to an Anglo-French company the construction of a railway from the capital
to Ancona; but that, like all other commercial enterprises in the Papal dominions, is lagging
sadly.

Crossing the Pyrenees to view the works in the Peninsula, which Bradshaw may possibly have
to register in 1862, we find that, amid the financial difficulties of Spain, three lines of
railway have been marked out--from Madrid to Irun; from Aranjuez to Almansa; and from Alar
to Santander. The first would be a great line to the vicinity of the French frontier, to cost
600 millions of reals; the second would be part of an intended route from Aranjuez, near Madrid,
to the Mediterranean; the length to Almansa, involving an outlay of 220 millions. The third
line, from Santander to Alar del Rey, on the Biscayan seaboard of Spain, is intended to facilitate
approach from the interior to the rising port of Santander; the outlay is put down at 120 millions.
It is difficult to translate these high-sounding sums into English equivalents, for there are
three kinds of reals in Spain, varying from 2-5/8d. to 5-1/4d. English; but taking even the
lowest equivalent, the sum-total amounts to a capital which Spain will have some difficulty
in raising. The Santander line, however, has attracted English capital and engineering towards
it; the first sod was turned by the king-consort in May 1852, and the works are now in progress.
There is also an important line from Madrid to the Portuguese frontier near Badajoz, marked
out on paper; but the fruition of this as well as other schemes will mainly depend on the readiness
with which English capital can be obtained. Unfortunately, 'Spanish bonds' are not in the best
favour in England.

Portugal is a terra incognita to railways. It is on the extremest verge of Europe towards the
Atlantic; and European civilisation finds entrance there with remarkable slowness. In 1845,
the government tried to invite offers from capitalists to construct railways; in 1849, the
invitations were renewed; but the moneyed men were coy, and would not be wooed. In 1851, the
government appointed a commission to investigate the whole subject. The commission consisted
of five persons; and their Report, dated October 20, 1851, contains a large mass of valuable
information. It appeared in an English translation in some of the London journals towards the
close of the year. The commissioners take for granted that Spain will construct railways from
Madrid to the Portuguese frontier at Badajoz on the one side, and to the French frontier, near
Bayonne, on the other; and they then inquire how best to reach Badajoz from Lisbon. Three routes
present themselves--one to Santarem, and across the Tagus to Badajoz; another to Santarem and
Coimbra, and so on into Spain by way of Almeida; and a third to Oporto, and thence by Bragança
into Spain. The first of these, being more directly in the route to Madrid, is preferred by
the commissioners, who estimate the outlay at a million and a quarter sterling. They discuss
the terms on which capitalists might possibly be induced to come to their aid; and they indulge
in a hope that, ten years hence, Lisbon may be united to Central Europe by a railway, of which
260 kilomètres will cross Portugal to Badajoz, 370 from Badajoz to Madrid, and about 400 from
Madrid to the French frontier, where the Paris and Bayonne Railway will continue the route.
(Five kilomètres are equal to rather more than three English miles.) The Continental Bradshaw
will, we apprehend, have to wait long before these peninsular trunk-lines find a place in its
pages.

Leaving altogether the countries of Europe, and crossing the Mediterranean, we find that even
Africa is becoming a member of the great railway system. After a world of trouble, financial
and diplomatic, the present ruler of Egypt has succeeded in giving reality to a scheme for
a railway from Alexandria to the Nile. A glance at a map of Egypt will shew us that a canal
extends from Alexandria to the Nile, to escape the sanded-up mouths of that famous river. It
is mainly to expedite the overland route, so far as concerns the transit along this canal,
that the railway now in process of construction has been planned; anything beyond this, it
will be for future ages to develop. The subject of the Isthmus of Suez and its transit has
been frequently treated in this Journal, and we will therefore say nothing more here, than
that our friend Bradshaw will, in all probability, have something to tell us concerning the
land of Egypt before any long time has elapsed.

Asia will have a spider-line of railway by and by, when the slow-coach proceedings of the East
India Company have given something like form to the Bombay and Bengal projects; but at present
the progress is miserably slow; and Bradshaw need not lay aside a page for the rich Orient
for many years to come.

There are a few general considerations respecting the present aspect of the railway system,
interesting not only in themselves, but as giving a foretaste of what is to come. In the autumn
of last year, a careful statistician calculated that the railways of Europe and America, as
then in operation, extended in the aggregate to 25,350 miles, the total cost of which was four
hundred and fifty millions of pounds. Of this, the United Kingdom had 7000 miles, costing L.250,000,000.
According to the view here given, the 7000 miles of our own railways have been constructed
at an expense prodigiously greater than the remaining 18,350 miles in other parts of the world.
It needs no figures to prove that this is the fact. Many of the continental and American railways
are single lines, and so far they have been got up at a comparatively small cost. But the substantial
difference of expense lies in our plan of leaving railway undertakings to private parties--rival
speculators and jobbers, whose aim has too frequently been plunder. And how enormous has been
that plunder let enriched engineers and lawyers--let impoverished victims--declare. Shame on
the British legislature, to have tolerated and legalised the railway villainies of the last
ten years; in comparison with which the enforcements of continental despotisms are angelic
innocence!

Besides being got up in a simple and satisfactory manner, under government decrees and state
responsibility, the continental railways are evidently more under control than those of the
United Kingdom. The speed of trains is regulated to a moderate and safe degree; on all hands
there seems to be a superior class of officials in charge; and as the lines have been made
at a small cost, the fares paid by travellers are for the most part very much lower than in
this country. Government interference abroad is, therefore, not altogether a wrong. Annoying
as it may sometimes be, and bad as it avowedly is in principle, there is in it the spirit of
protection against private oppression. And perhaps the English may by and by discover that
jobbing-companies, with stupendous capital and a monopoly of conveyance, are capable of doing
as tyrannical things as any continental autocrat!

If a section of the English public stands disgraced in the eyes of Europe by its vicious speculation--properly
speaking, gambling--in railway finance, our country is in some degree redeemed from obloquy
by the grandeur of a social melioration which jobbing has not been able to obstruct. The wide
spread of railways over the continent, we have said, is working a perceptible change in almost
all those arrangements which bear on the daily comforts of life. No engine of a merely physical
kind has ever wrought so powerfully to secure lasting international peace as the steam-engine.
The locomotive is every hour breaking down barriers of separation between races of men. And
as wars in future could be conducted only by cutting short the journeys by railway, arresting
trains, and ruining great commercial undertakings, we may expect that nations will pause before
rushing into them. Already, the French railways, which push across the frontier into the German
countries, are visibly relaxing the custom-house and passport systems. Stopping a whole train
at an imaginary boundary to examine fifteen hundred passports, is beyond even the French capacity
for official minutiæ. A hurried glance, or no glance at all--a sham inspection at the best--is
all that the gentlemen with moustaches and cocked-hats can manage. The very attempt to look
at bushels of passports is becoming an absurdity. And what has to be done in the twinkling
of an eye, will, we have no doubt, soon not be done at all. Thanks to railways for this vast
privilege of free locomotion!

A NEW PRINCIPLE IN NATURE.

It is pretty well known that researches by Matteucci, Du Bois-Reymond, and others, have made
us acquainted with the influence of electricity and galvanism on the muscular system of animals,
and that important physiological effects have been attributed to this influence, more than
perhaps we are warranted in assuming in the present state of our knowledge. That an influence
is exerted in some way, is clear from the difference in our feelings in dry and wet weather:
it has been supposed, however, that the effects on the nervous system are not produced by an
accumulation of positive or of negative electricity, but by the combination of the two producing
dynamic electricity. While these points are undergoing discussion, we have an opportunity of
bringing before our readers the results of investigations bearing on the general question.

Most persons are aware of the fact, that a peculiar taste follows the application of two different
metals to the tongue in a popular galvanic experiment. This taste is caused by the azotic acid
formed from the oxygen and azote of the atmosphere. An electric discharge, too, is accompanied
by a smell, which smell is due to the presence of what is called ozone; and not long ago M.
Schoenbein, of Basel, the inventor of guncotton, discovered ozone as a principle in the oxygen
of the atmosphere; and it is considered to be the active principle of that universal constituent.
Later researches have brought out a striking analogy between the properties of ozone and chlorine,
and have led to conclusions as to the dangerous effect which the former may produce, in certain
cases, on the organs of respiration. Some idea of its energy may be formed from the fact, that
mice perish speedily in air which contains one six-thousandth of ozone. It is always present
in the atmosphere in a greater or lesser degree, in direct relation with the amount of atmospheric
electricity, and appears to obey the same laws in its variations, finding its maximum in winter
and its minimum in summer.

Ozone, in scientific language, is described as 'a compound of oxygen analogous to the peroxide
of hydrogen, or, that it is oxygen in an allotropic state--that is, with the capability of
immediate and ready action impressed upon it.' Besides being produced by electrical discharges
in the atmosphere, it can be obtained artificially by the passing of what is called the electrical
brush into the air from a moist wooden point, or by electrolyzed water or phosphorus. The process,
when the latter substance is employed, is to put a small piece, clean scraped, about half an
inch long, into a large bottle which contains just so much of water as to half cover the phosphorus,
and then closing the mouth slightly, to guard against combustion, to leave it standing for
a time in a temperature of about 60 degrees. Ozone soon begins to be formed, as shewn by the
rising of a light column of smoke from the phosphorus, which, at the same time, becomes luminous.
In five or six hours, the quantity will be abundant, when the bottle is to be emptied of its
contents, washed out, and closed for use and experiment.

Whichever way the ozone be produced, it is always identical in its properties; and these are
described as numerous and remarkable. Its odour is peculiar, resembling that of chlorine, and,
when diluted, cannot be distinguished from what is called the electric smell. When largely
diffused in atmospheric air, it causes unpleasant sensations, makes respiration difficult,
and, by acting powerfully on the mucous membranes, produces catarrhal effects; and as such
air will kill small animals, it shews that pure ozone must be highly injurious to the animal
economy. It is insoluble in water, is powerfully electromotive, and is most strikingly energetic
in numerous chemical agencies, its action on nearly all metallic bodies being to carry them
at once to the state of peroxide, or to their highest point of oxidation; it changes sulphurets
into sulphates, instantaneously destroys several gaseous compounds, and bleaches indigo, thus
shewing its analogy with chlorine.

In proceeding to the account of his experiments, M. Schoenbein shews, that gases can be produced
by chemical means, which exercise an oxidizing influence of a powerful nature, especially in
their physiological effects, even when diffused through the atmosphere in very minute quantities:
also, that owing to the immense number of organic beings on the earth, their daily death and
decomposition, an enormous amount of gases is produced similar to those which can be obtained
by artificial means; and besides these, a quantity of gaseous or volatile products, 'whose
chemical nature,' as the author observes, 'is as yet unknown, but of which we can easily admit
that some, at least, diffused through the air, even in very small quantities, and breathed
with it, exert a most deplorable action on the animal organism. Hence it follows, that the
decomposition of organic matters ought to be considered as one of the principal causes of the
corruption of the air by miasmatic substances. Now, a continuous cause, and acting on so vast
a scale, would necessarily diffuse through the atmosphere a considerable mass of miasmatic
gases, and accumulate them till at length it would be completely poisoned, and rendered incapable
of supporting animal life, if nature had not found the means of destroying these noxious matters
in proportion as they are produced.'

The question then arises: What are the means employed for this object? M. Schoenbein believes
that he has found it in the action of ozone, which is continually formed by the electricity
of the atmosphere, and is known to be a most powerful agent of oxidation, causing serious modifications
of organic bodies, and, consequently, of their physiological action. 'To assure myself,' he
pursues, 'that ozone destroys the miasma arising from the decomposition of animal matters,
I introduced into a balloon containing about 130 pints of air, a piece of flesh weighing four
ounces, taken from a human corpse, and in a very advanced state of putrefaction. I withdrew
it after a minute; the air in the balloon had acquired a strong and very repulsive odour, shewing
that it was charged with an appreciable quantity--at least for the smell--of miasm caused by
the putrefaction.

'To produce ozone, I introduced into the infected balloon a stick of phosphorus an inch long,
with water sufficient to half cover it. At the same time, for the sake of comparison, I placed
a similar quantity of phosphorus and water in another balloon full of pure atmospheric air.
After some minutes, the reaction of ozone in the latter was most evidently manifested, while
no trace of it was yet apparent in the former, which still gave off an odour of putrefaction.
This, however, disappeared completely at the end of ten or twelve minutes, and immediately
the reaction of the ozone was detected.'

The conclusion drawn from this experiment is, that the ozone destroyed the miasm by oxidation,
and could only make its presence evident after the complete destruction of the noxious volatile
substances. This effect is more strikingly shewn by another experiment.

A balloon of similar capacity to the one above mentioned was charged as strongly as possible
with ozone, and afterwards washed with water. The same piece of flesh was suspended within
it; and the opening being carefully closed, it was left inside for nine hours before the air
of the balloon presented the least odour of putrefaction. The air was tested every thirty minutes
by an ozonometer, and the proportion of ozone found to be gradually diminishing; but as long
as the paper of the instrument exhibited the slightest trace of blue, there was no smell, which
only came on as the last signs of ozone disappeared. Thus, all the miasm given off by the piece
of flesh during nine hours was completely neutralised by the ozone with which the balloon had
been impregnated, so small in quantity as to be but the 6000th part of a gramme. One balloon
filled with ozonified air, would suffice to disinfect 540 balloons filled with miasmatic air.
'These considerations,' says M. Schoenbein, 'shew us how little the miasma of the air are to
be appreciated by weight, even when they exist therein in a quantity very sensible to the smell,
and how small is the proportion of ozone necessary to destroy the miasm produced by the putrefaction
of organic substances, and diffused through the atmosphere.'

The presence of ozone in any vessel or in the atmosphere, may be detected by a test-paper which
has been moistened with a solution composed of 1 part of pure iodide of potassium, 10 parts
of starch, and 100 parts of water, boiled together for a few moments. Paper so prepared turns
immediately blue when exposed to the action of ozone, the tint being lighter or darker according
to the quantity. Schoenbein's ozonometer consists of 750 slips of dry bibulous paper prepared
in the manner described; and with a scale of tints and instructions, sufficient to make observations
on the ozone of the atmosphere twice a day for a year. After exposure to the ozone, they require
to be moistened to bring out the colour.

M. Schoenbein continues: 'We must admit that the electric discharges which take place incessantly
in different parts of the atmosphere, and causing therein a formation of ozone, purify the
air by this means of organic, or, more generally, oxidizable miasma; and that they have thus
the important office of maintaining it in a state of purity suitable to animal life. By means
of atmospheric electricity, and, indirectly, nature thus attains on a great scale the object
that we sometimes seek to accomplish in a limited space by fumigations with chlorine.

'Here, as in many other cases, we see nature effecting two different objects at one stroke.
For if the oxidizable miasma are destroyed by atmospheric ozone, they, in turn, cause the latter
to disappear, and we have seen that it is itself a miasm. This is doubtless the reason why
ozone does not accumulate in the atmosphere in greater proportion than the oxidizable miasma,
notwithstanding the constant formation of one and the other.

'In all times, the idea has been held, that storms purify the air, and I do not think that
this opinion is ill-founded. We know, in fact, that storms give rise to a more abundant production
of ozone. It is possible, and even probable, that sometimes, in particular localities, there
may not be a just relation between the ozone and the oxidizable miasma in the air, and that
the latter cannot be completely destroyed. Hence, in accordance with the chemical nature and
physiological influence of these miasma, they would exert a marked action on the animal economy,
and cause diseases among the greater number of those who breathe the infected air. But numerous
experiments prove that, as a rule, the air contains free ozone, though in very variable proportions;
from which we may conclude that no oxidizable miasm--sulphuretted hydrogen, for example--can
exist in such an atmosphere, any more than it could exist in air containing but a trace of
chlorine.

'I do not know if it be true, as has been advanced by Mr Hunt and other persons, that ozone
is deficient in the atmospheric air when some wide-spread malady, such as cholera, is raging.
In any case, it would be easy, by means of the prepared paper, to determine the truth or fallacy
of this opinion.

'There is one fact which should particularly engage the attention of physicians and physiologists,
which is, that, of all seasons, the winter is distinguished by the greatest proportion of ozone;
whence it follows, that during that season the air contains least of oxidizable miasma. We
can say, therefore, with respect to this class of miasma, that the air is purer in winter than
in summer.

'All my observations agree in shewing, that the proportion of ozone in the air increases with
the height; if this fact be general, as I am disposed to believe, we must consider the upper
regions of the atmosphere as purer, with regard to oxidizable miasma, than the lower.

'The appearance of certain maladies--intermittent fever, for example--appears to be connected
with certain seasons and particular geographical conditions. It would be worth while to ascertain,
by ozonometric observations, whether these physiological phenomena have any relation whatever
with the proportion of ozone contained in the air in which they occur.

'Considering the obscurity which prevails as to the cause of the greater part of diseases,
and the great probability that many among them owe their origin to the presence of chemical
agents dispersed in the atmosphere, it becomes the duty of medical men and physiologists, who
interest themselves in the progress of their science, to seize earnestly all the means by which
they may hope to arrive at more exact notions upon the relations which exist between abnormal
physiological phenomena and external circumstances.'

Such is a summary of M. Schoenbein's views as communicated to the Medical Society of Basel;
and we the more readily accord them the publicity of our columns, as, apart from the intrinsic
value of the subject, it is one which has for some time excited the interest of scientific
inquirers in this country. During the late visitation of cholera, reports were frequently spread
that the atmosphere was deficient in ozone.

ENGLISH SISTERS OF CHARITY.

How much real good could yet be done in this old, full, struggling world of ours, where so
many among us have need of help, if each in his or her small circle could manage just not to
leave undone some of the things that should be done. Little more is wanting to effect this
than the will, or perhaps the mere suggestion. A high influence may at a time confer a considerable
benefit; but very humble means, systematically exerted, even during a comparatively short season,
will certainly relieve a load of misery.

In a small village towards the west of England, there dwelt, some years ago, two maiden gentlewomen,
sisters, the daughters of the deceased rector of the parish. Their father had early in life
entered upon his duties in this retired locality, contentedly abiding there where fate had
placed him, each passing year increasing his interest in the charge which engrossed all his
energies. His moderate stipend, assisted by a small private fortune, sufficed for his quiet
tastes, and for the few charities required by his flock; it also enabled him to rear a large
family respectably, and to start them creditably on their working way.

There was no railway near this village--even the Queen's highway was at some distance. Fields,
meadows, a shady lane, a brook, and the Welsh mountains for a background, formed the picture
of beauty that attracted the stranger. There was hardly what could be called a street. The
cottages were clustered upon the side of the wooded bank above the stream, shrouded in gardens
of apple-trees; but there was space near the foot of the hill for a green of rather handsome
size, with a plane-tree in the middle of it, and a few small shops along one side. Opposite
the shops was the inn, the doctor's house, the market-house, and a public reading-room; and
a bylane led from the green up towards the church--an old, low-walled, steep-roofed building,
with a square, dumpy tower, in which hung a peal of bells, and where was placed a large, round,
clumsy window. A clump of hardwood trees enclosed the upper end of the church-yard, and extended
to the back of the rector's garden, quite concealing his many-gabled dwelling. In a still,
summer evening, the brook could be heard from the parlour windows of the rectory, dancing merrily
along to its own music; and at those less pleasant seasons when the foliage was scanty, it
could be seen here and there between the boles of the trees, sparkling in the sunshine as it
rippled on, while glimpses of the rich plain beyond added to the harmony of the prospect.

The society of the village and its immediate neighbourhood was of a humble kind--neither the
rich nor the great were members of it; yet there were wisdom, and prudence, and talent, and
good faith to be found in this little community, where all inclined to live as brethren, kindly
together. It was not a bad school this for the young to grow up in. The rector's family had
here been trained; and when they grew to rise beyond it, and then passed out upon the wider
world, those of them that were again heard of in their birthplace, did no discredit to its
name: and all passed out, all but two--our two sisters. It is said adversity must at some time
reach us all: it had been late in visiting them, for they had passed a happy youth in that
quiet parsonage. At last, sorrow came, and they were left alone, the two extremes of the chain
which had bound the little household together--all the intermediate links had broken; and when,
upon their father's death, they had to quit their long-loved home, they found themselves verging
upon old age, in circumstances that natures less strictly disciplined would have felt to have
been at the least dreary. The younger sister was slightly deformed, and very delicate; the
elder, though still an active woman, was quite beyond the middle of life; the income of the
two, just L.30--no great elements these of either usefulness or happiness. Let us see, then,
what was made of them. Some relations pressed the sisters to share their distant home, but
they would not leave the village. They felt as if their work lay there. The friends they knew
best were all around them; the occupations they had been used to still remained to them; the
memory of all they had loved there clung to them, in the old haunts so doubly dear to the bereaved
who bear affliction patiently. So they moved only to a cottage a little higher up the hill,
yet within view of the church, and of the dear old house, with its garden, sheltering wood,
and pleasant rivulet; and there they lived in comfort, with enough to use and much to spare,
their cruse never failing them when wanted. It was a real cottage, which a labourer had left:
there was no ornament about it till they added some. Rude and unfashioned did this low-thatched
cabin pass to them; it was their own hands, with very little help from their light purse, which
made of a mere hovel the prettiest of rural dwellings--her own hands, indeed; for Sister Anne
alone was the working-bee. Sister Catherine helped by hints and smiles, and by her nimble needle;
but for out-of-doors labour she had not strength. Sister Anne nailed up the trellised porch,
over which gay creepers were in time to grow. Sister Anne laid out the beds of flowers, protected
by a low paling from the sheep which pastured on the downs. She planned the tidy bit of garden
on one side, and the little yard behind, where pig and poultry throve; but Sister Catherine
watched the bee-hives near the hawthorn hedge, and plied her busy fingers by the hour to decorate
the inside of their pretty cottage. They almost acted man and wife in the division of their
employments, and with the best effect.

It would have astonished any one unaccustomed to the few wants of simple tastes, and to the
many small gains from various trifling produce which careful industry alone can accumulate,
to see the plenty consequent on skill, order, and neatness. The happiness was a joy apart,
only to be felt by the sort of poetic mind of the truly benevolent, for it depended not on
luxury, or even comfort, or any purely selfish feeling. It sprang from warm hearts directed
by clear heads, invigorated by religious feelings, and nourished by country tastes, softened
and elevated by the trials of life, till devotion to their kind became the one intention of
their being; for it is as Sisters of Charity we introduce our heroines to our readers, one
of a wide class in our reformed church, who, unshackled by vows, under no bondage of conventual
forms, with small means, and by their own exertions and self-sacrifices, do more good in their
generation than can be easily reckoned--treading in the footsteps of their Master, bearing
healing as they move. Every frugal meal was shared with some one less favoured. No fragments
were too small for use in Sister Anne's most skilful cookery; not a crumb, nor a dreg, nor
a drop was wasted. Many a cup of comfort fed the sick or the weary, made from what, in richer
households, unthrifty servants would have thrown away. There were always roots to spare from
the small garden, herbs for medicines, eggs for sale, salves, and lotions, and conserves of
fruit or honey. All the poor infants in the parish were neatly clothed in baby-linen made out
of old garments. There were always bundles of patches to give away, so useful to poor mothers;
strips of rag for hurts; old flannel, and often new; a little collection of rubbish now and
then for the bagman, though very rarely, the breakage being small where there were so few hands
used, and they so careful.

They gave their time, too; for they were the nurses of all the sick, the comforters of all
the sorrowful, the advisers of all in difficulty--without parade. They were applied to as of
course--it seemed natural. And they were sociable: they had their little tea-parties with their
acquaintance; they made their little presents at Christmas-time; they sweetened life throughout
their limited sphere; and all so quietly, that no one guessed the amount of their influence
till it ceased. They preached 'the word' practically, producing all the charity it taught,
inculcating the 'peace on earth, good-will towards men' which disposes even rude natures to
the gentler feelings, and soothes the chafed murmurer by the tender influence of that love
which is so kind. They were unwearied in their walk of mercy, though they met with disappointment
even among the simple natures reared in this secluded spot. They bore it meekly; and when cross
or trial came to those around, then could our good sisters carry comfort to afflicted friends,
never pleading quite in vain for the exercise of that patience which lightens suffering. They
were as mothers to the young, as daughters to the old, of all degree; for they did not ostentatiously
devote themselves to the poor and ignorant alone--the so-called poor: the poor in spirit, of
whatever rank, were as much their care as were the poor in purse; their charge was all who
needed help--a help they gave simply, lovingly, not as meddlers, but as sisters bound to a
larger family by the breaking of the ties which had united them to their own peculiar household.

There was no scenic effect visible along the humble walk of their pure benevolence, no harsh
outlines to mark the course they went, or shew them to the world as devoted to particular excellence
all throughout a lifetime of painful mortifications. Very noiseless was their quiet way. In
a spirit of thankfulness they accepted their lot, turning its very bitterness into joy, by
gratefully receiving the many pleasures still vouchsafed them; for it is a happy world, in
spite of all its trials, to those who look aright for happiness. Our sisters found it and bestowed
it. How many blessed their name! How many have had reason to love the memory of these two unobtrusive
women, who, without name, or station, or show, or peculiarity, or distinction of any kind,
were the types of a class the circle of which even this humble memorial, by its truth and suggestiveness,
may aid in extending--of the true, simple, earnest, brave, holy Sisters of Charity of our country!

BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION.

I am not sure about bribery and corruption. It may be a bad thing, but many seem to think otherwise.
Much may be said on both sides of the question. Oh! don't tell me of a worm selling his birthright
for a mess of pottage: I never read of such worms in Buffon, or even in Pliny. But if they
do exist in the human form, the baseness consists in the sale, not in the quid pro quo. A mess
of pottage in itself is a very good thing--I should say, a very respectable thing; and no exchange
can take away from it that character. Still, if what we give for it is an heirloom, coming
from our ancestors and belonging to our posterity, the transaction is shabby, and not only
shabby, but dishonest. If that is proved, I don't defend the worm. Trample on him by all means--jump
on him. But beware of insulting the mess of pottage, which is as respectable as when newly
out of the pot. Fancy the sale to have been effected by means of some other equivalent: and
that, by the way, is just what puzzles me. There are numerous other equivalents, not a whit
more respectable in themselves--many far less so--which not only escape all objurgation, but
serve to lift the identical transaction out of the category of basenesses. This confuses a
brain like mine, even to the length of doubting whether there is any harm in the thing at all.
Let us turn the question over patiently. I confess I am slow; but 'slow and sure,' you know.

Bribery and corruption is a universal element in civilised society; but let us talk in the
meantime of political bribery and corruption. It is the theory of the law--if the law really
has a theory--that in the matter of a parliamentary canvass, every man, as a celebrated Irish
minister expressed it, should stand upon his own bottom. By this poetical figure, Lord Londonderry
meant that the man should depend upon himself, upon his own merits and character, without having
recourse to any extrinsic means of working upon the judgment of others. It is likewise the
theory of the law, that a man who suffers his judgment to be indirectly biassed is as bad as
the other--and worse: that he is, in fact, a Worm, unfit to possess his birthright, of which
he should be forthwith deprived. Well, this being premised: here is the Honourable Tom Snuffleton,
who wants to represent our borough, but having neither merit nor character of any convertible
kind, offers money and gin instead. The substitute is accepted; and Honourable Tom, slapping
his waistcoat several times, congratulates the free and independent electors on having that
day set a glorious example to the world, by thus exercising their birthright and upholding
their palladium; and the affair is finished amid cheers and hiccups.

When I say, however, that the substitute is accepted, I do not mean that it is accepted by,
or can be offered to the whole constituency. That would be a libel. There are many of the electors
who have a soul above sovereigns, and who, if they could accomplish it, would never drink anything
less than claret. These persons are ambitious of being noticed by the family of Honourable
Tom. They are not hungry, but they take delight in a dinner in that quarter. They also feel
intensely gratified by having their wives and daughters bowed to from the family carriage.
A thousand considerations like these blind them to the absence of merit and character on the
part of the candidate, and lay them open to that extrinsic influence which, according to the
meaning of the law, is bribery and corruption. As for the man who takes his bribe, for the
sake of convenience, in the direct, portable, and exchangeable form of a sovereign, he lays
it out in any pleasure or distinction he, on his part, has a fancy for. If he is a dissolute
person, he spends it in the public-house; if he is a proper-behaved husband, he gives his wife
a new gown; if he is a respectable, serious individual, he devotes it to the conversion of
the Wid-a-wak tribe in Central Africa, and gloats upon the name of John Higgins in the subscription-list.
In whichever way, however, he may seek to gratify himself, he is neither better nor worse,
so far as I can see, than the voter of more elegant aspirations: they have both been bribed;
they are both corrupt; they have both sold their birthright.

This is a homely way of viewing the question, but it suffices. If we inquire into the motives
of a hundred electors, we shall not find ten of them free from some alloy of self-interest,
direct or indirect. In cases where the candidates are all equally good, equally bad, or equally
indifferent, there may be no practical harm in this; but it is not a political but a moral
question that is before us. The question is as to the bribe. If we are to be excused because
of the nature of the solatium we accept, then should a thief successfully plead that it was
not money he stole, but a masterpiece of Raphael. What I doubt is, whether they who have not
been solely influenced by patriotic motives, have any right to cast stones at the free and
independent elector who has sold his vote for a sovereign.

If the common saying be true, that 'every man has his price,' then are we all open to bribery
and corruption; and the only difficulty lies in ascertaining the weak side of our nature. The
distinction in this case is not between vice and virtue, but between the various positions
in which we are placed. Money will do with some men; others, who would be shocked at the idea
of taking money, will accept of something it has bought; others, again, who would spurn at
both these, will have no objection to a snug little place for themselves or their dependents.
The English, as a practical, straightforward people, take money--five to ten pounds being considered
a fair thing for a vote, and no shame about it. The Scotch, as more calculating, like a situation;
anything to put sons into, will do--a cadetship in India, a tide-waitership, a place in the
Post-office, or a commission in the army. From a small Scotch country town, which we have in
our eye, as many as fourteen lads in one year received appointments in the Excise; everybody
knew what for: an election was in expectation. No money, however, being passed from hand to
hand, the fathers of these said lads would look with horror on such cases of bribery as have
given renown and infamy to Sudbury and St Alban's.

     All men think all men sinners but themselves.

Happy this consciousness of innocence! How fortunate that we should be such a virtuous and
discreet people! And thus does one's very notions of what is right become a marketable article.
Where neither money nor place is wanted, a gracious look and an invitation to dinner may have
quite a telling effect. In fact, the more refined men have become, through the action of circumstances,
such as education and position, the more abstracted and attenuated is the equivalent they demand
for their virtue; till we reach the highest grade of all, whose noble natures, as they are
called, can be seduced only by affection and gratitude. Now observe: in all these cases the
thing is the same, whether it be crime we have been tempted to commit, or mere illegality;
the only distinction lies in the value of the quid pro quo. But is there a distinction even
in that? I doubt the fact. I don't say there is none, but I doubt it. Value is entirely arbitrary.
One man, at the lower end of the scale, sins for the sake of a pound; and another, at the higher
end, does the same thing for the sake of a kindness. The two men place the same value on their
several equivalents, and each finds his own irresistible. Are they not both equally guilty?

That a refined man is better than a coarse one, I admit. He is pleasanter, and not only so,
but safer. We know his virtue to be secure from a thousand temptations before which meaner
natures fall; and to a large extent, therefore, we feel him to be worthy of our trust. He will
not betray us for a pound, or a dinner, or a place, or a coaxing word, or a condescending bow:
but we must not go too far with him for all that. He has his price as surely as the meanest
of his fellows; and let him only come in the way of a temptation he values as highly as the
other values his miserable pound, and down he goes! Refined natures, therefore, are only comparatively
trustworthy; and, however estimable or admirable they may be under other circumstances, when
they do fail they are as guilty as the rest. It is a bad thing altogether, bribery and corruption
is; and I don't object to your putting it down when it takes that material form of money you
can so readily get hold of. But what I hate is the cant that is canted about it by those who
have not even the virtue to take their equivalent on the sly. For it is a remarkable thing,
that when this does not come in a material shape, such as you can count or handle, it is looked
upon by the bribee as no bribe at all! Nay, in some cases he will glory in his crime, as if
it were a virtue; and in all cases he will turn round upon his fellow-criminal--him of the
vulgar sort--call him a worm, and throw that mess of pottage at him! This refined evil-doer
may be as energetic as he pleases in his actions, but it would be well if he were a little
more quiet in his words.

The main cause of such anomalies I take to be, that there is among us a general want of earnestness.
We do not believe in ourselves, or our duties, or our destinies. Our life has no theory, and
we care only for outward forms and symbols. Our taste is shocked by the grossness of vice,
but we have no quarrel with the thing itself; and if the people around us will only preserve
a polished, or at least inoffensive exterior, that is all we demand. Why should we look below
the surface in their case, when we do no such thing in our own? We feel amiable, genteel, and
refined; we detest the appearance of low impropriety, and would take a good deal of trouble
to put it down; we look very kindly on the world in general, if the low people who are in it
would only become as decorous as ourselves. In the old republics, the case was different. There
men had a theory, even if a bad one, and they stuck to it through good report and through bad
report. The theory was the spirit of the community, and its members sacrificed to it their
whole individuality. No wonder that such little political unities held together as if their
component parts had been welded, and that they continued to do so till they came into collision,
and, from their hardness and toughness, rubbed one another out.

Put down bribery and corruption: that is fair. And more especially put down open, shameless,
and brutal bribery and corruption, for its very coarseness is, in itself, an additional crime.
But no reform is efficacious that does not come from within; and when refined men wage war
against vulgar vices, let them look sharply to their own. I do not say, that by taking thought
they will be able to do entirely away with the seductive influence of a bow, or a dinner, or
a kind action; and that, in spite of these, they will do their duty with the stern resolve
of an ancient Spartan. But they will be less likely to yield to temptation, and the price of
their virtue will at least mount higher and higher, which is as much as we can expect of human
nature. The grand benefit, however, they will derive from the inquisition, is the lesson of
tolerance it will teach. They will refrain, for shame's sake, from casting stones and calling
names. They will see that the only part of the offence they can notice is vulgarity and ignorance,
and they will quietly try to refine the one and enlighten the other.

THE EGYPTIAN MUSEUM, LIVERPOOL.

In a cross street named Colquitt Street, near a fashionable promenade of Liverpool, will be
found the rich, valuable, and interesting museum which we are about briefly to describe. It
is the property of Mr Joseph Mayer, F.S.A., a townsman of Liverpool, esteemed as much for his
private worth as for his refined classical taste. This gentleman has been long known as a collector;
and by the purchase of an entire gallery of antiquities, formed by one who travelled long in
Egypt and Nubia, and visited the remains of ancient Carthage, he became possessed of a museum
so extensive that his private residence could not contain them, and so rare, that the public
desired to know more about them. With the view, therefore, of keeping them together, and gratifying
the many who longed to acquaint themselves with these interesting relics of an interesting
race, this house in Colquitt Street has been appropriated. For the purpose of meeting the current
expenses of the exhibition, and enabling the proprietor to add to its contents, a very trifling
charge is made for admission, and a book is kept for the autographs of the visitors.

The first room entered displays a large collection of Egyptian stelæ and other monuments, while
the outer cases and sarcophagi of several mummies are placed in another apartment. The word
stela means merely a memorial pillar or tombstone; and in this room the reflective mind will
find much food for meditation. We have here the first elements of all religion brought visibly
before us in the carvings--the recognition of a deity, and the belief in immortality. More
than one of these stelæ has upon it the royal cartouch; one of them has no fewer than four
of these elliptical rings with inscriptions, and two more from which the hieroglyphics have
been erased. This tells a tale, for in the age commemorated, it was a mark of disgrace to have
the name obliterated. Another stela contains the jackal, or genius of the departed, with propitiatory
offerings from his friends. The curious will learn with interest, that another of these monuments
dates back to the time of Joseph. It has twice engraved upon it the name Osortosen--perhaps
the Pharaoh 'who gave him to wife Asenath, the daughter of Potiphorah, priest of On,' and raised
the obelisk at Heliopolis, towns thought to be the same. Near to this is another stela of great
beauty, engraved in low relief and cavo-relievo, coloured. It belongs to Manetho's sixth dynasty,
and is consequently very ancient. One still more so is in the same collection: it is of the
fourth dynasty of that historian--consequently, of the time when the Pyramids were built. It
is beautifully executed in intaglio and relievo, with the surface polished. These stelæ, of
which the collection is very rich, are composed of various rocks--such as granite, syenite,
limestone, the travertino of the Italians, and sandstone.

While the tombs of Egypt have furnished these monuments, Karnac is represented by a portion
of its great obelisk, and Rome has supplied a cinerary urn with cremated bones, several sepulchral
tablets, and an altar.

In another room on the same floor, we find an extensive collection of pottery from the tombs
of ancient Etruria, and other parts of Italy; Roman pottery found in Britain; Samian ware,
and articles of that kind, from Pompeii, Carthage, and South America. The central case is overflowing
with riches, containing as it does nearly six hundred Etruscan vases in terra cotta. It is
a subject of doubt among the learned, whether these painted vessels, so called, are not in
reality Grecian. Bossi, in his great work on Italy, claims the first manufacture for the Tuscans;
but there is a strong argument in favour of their Grecian origin in the negative evidence obtained
from Roman Italy, where they are not found, and the positive evidence from the Grecian subjects
depicted on the pottery; besides which, the tombs of the Greek islands of the Archipelago contain
them. Their not being met with in the Asiatic colonies of the Greeks may go merely to shew,
that although the objects might be Grecian, the trade was Etruscan. It is well known, too,
that at Athens the art of making pottery had arrived at great perfection. That the Tuscans
used these as funereal vessels at a remote period, is fully established; but the custom of
depositing them in sepulchres is not supposed to have originated with that people, but to have
been brought by colonists from Greece Proper.

In this apartment, there are sepulchral lamps in the same material as the Etruscan vases, and
idols not a few. Besides these, there are numerous Roman fibulæ (a sort of brooch) and bracelets,
found at Treves, and others dug up in England. There are likewise many Roman antiquities, which
have been recently met with at Hoy Lake, near Liverpool. But we must not attempt to enter into
details; let us mount to the floor above, and notice the contents of the apartments there.

The first room on the second storey is the Mummy Room; and there rest, side by side, royal
personages and humble individuals, male and female, who, about four thousand years ago, breathed
the air of Egypt. Except by their cerements, and the inscriptions on the cases, who could tell
which had been the greater?

The plan adopted for the display of these human mummies--for the Museum contains the preserved
remains of the ibis and hawk, the cat, and even the dog, a rare subject for the embalmer, besides
the bodies of other inferior animals--is to remove the outer case and covering, then to place
the inner case upon the floor; above it, resting on supports, the body; and above that again,
the lid, enclosing all within plates of glass, so that the spectator may go round the mummy,
examining it in all directions, and likewise the case, within and without, on which the hieroglyphics
are inscribed. Before we describe the mummies so laid out, let us explain briefly the process
of embalming. Herodotus is a great authority on this matter, and we cannot do better than follow
him.

In the first place, the embalmer was a medical practitioner, and legally pursued his craft.
The deceased was taken to his room, and there the process of preservation was conducted; not,
however, till the agreement had been made between the relatives and the embalmer as to the
style and cost; for there were three methods of embalming, suitable to different ranks. This
having been determined, the operator began, the relatives having previously retired. In the
most expensive kind of embalming, the brain was extracted without disfiguring the head, and
the intestines were removed by an incision in the side: these were separated and preserved.
The body was now filled with spices--myrrh cassia, and other perfumes, frankincense excepted;
and the opening was firmly closed. It was now covered with natron for seventy days; and at
the expiration of that time, it was washed and swathed in linen cloth, dipped in gums and resinous
substances, when it was delivered to the relatives, and by them placed in the mummy case and
sarcophagus. It was finally placed perpendicularly in the apartment set apart for the dead;
so that the Egyptian could view his ancestors as figured on their coffins; and with the thought
that not only were their portraits there, but their bodies also--for the Egyptian was a firm
believer in immortality, and piously preserved the body in a fitter state, as he thought, for
reunion with the soul, than if allowed to perish by decay.

According to the second mode of embalming, no incisions were made upon the body, but absorbing
injections were employed. The natron was used as before; and after the customary days were
passed, the injected fluid was withdrawn, and with it came the entrails. The body was now enfolded
in the cloth, and returned to the friends. This process cost twenty minæ, the other was a talent.
In the third style, that adopted by the poor, the natron application was almost the only one
used; the body lay for seventy days in this alkaline solution, and was then accounted fit for
preservation. Sometimes the body, enveloped in the cloth, was covered with bitumen.

The most interesting mummy in this collection is that of a royal personage, Amenophis I., the
most ancient of the Pharaohs whose name has yet been found. The case is richly decorated, and
the name appears in three different places--that in the interior being in very large characters,
in a royal cartouch. The spectator seems to hang over this mummy as if spell-bound. Can this
in reality be one of the Pharaohs? Such is the question; and the inscription, thrice repeated--'Amenophis
I.'--is the answer! This monarch reigned in Egypt about half a century after the exodus of
the Israelites, and 3400 years ago, according to the chronology of Dr Hales; but others give
a remoter period--even in the days of Joseph.

Another mummy has the face covered with gold, and the body is inscribed with the gods of the
Amenti, on those regions over which they were the genii. Thus Amset, with a human head, presided
over the stomach and large intestines, and was the judge of Hades; Hape, with the head of a
baboon, presided over the small intestines; Soumautf, the third genius, with a jackal's head,
was placed over the region of the thorax, presiding over the heart and lungs; and the last,
Kebhsnauf, with the head of a hawk, presided over the gall-bladder and liver. Besides these,
there are other mummies exhibiting the style of swathing peculiarly Egyptian, in contradistinction
to the Græco-Egyptian, which differs from the former in having the limbs separately bandaged,
instead of being placed together and enveloped in one form. There are also fragments of the
human body mummied, one of which contains between the arm and shoulder a papyrus-roll. And
while we are now among the mummies, we must not forget the vases called canopuses, in which
the entrails and other internal organs were deposited; each bearing upon it the emblem of the
genius presiding over the separately embalmed viscera. On each of these canopuses, four of
which compose a set, an inscription may be seen. Thus: Amset--'I am thy son, a god, loving
thee; I have come to be beside thee, causing to germinate thy head, to fabricate thee with
the words of Phtah, like the brilliancy of the sun for ever.' Hape--'I have come to manifest
myself beside thee, to raise thy head and arms, to reduce thy enemies, to give thee all germination
for ever.' Soumautf--'I am thy son, a god, loving thee; I have come to support my father.'
Kebhsnauf--'I have come to be beside thee, to subdue thy form, to submit thy limbs for thee,
to lead thy heart to thee, to give it to thee in the tribunal of thy race, to germinate thy
house with all the other living.'

In this apartment there are many statues, some in wood, some in stone. In one of wood there
is a recess behind intended for a papyrus manuscript. There are also specimens of Egyptian
Mosaic pavement, and a monumental tablet, interesting from its having a Greek inscription,
while its style and figure are Egyptian--proving the continuance of the ancient manner down
to the Ptolemaic dynasty.

The adjoining room contains infinitely more than we can enumerate, and, like the others, many
articles not Egyptian, yet deeply interesting in themselves. The centre cases will demand our
first attention; and here we have idolets and amulets innumerable; coins of the Ptolemies,
Cleopatra, and others; and jewellery of all descriptions, from the golden diadem and the royal
signet down to the pottery rings and glass beads worn by the poor. As might be expected in
an Egyptian collection, the scarabæus, or sacred beetle, frequently meets the eye. Here are
scarabæi in gold, cornelion, chalcedony, heliotrope, torquoise, lapis-lazuli, porphyry, terra
cotta, and other materials; many of them having royal names and inscriptions engraved.

Two objects claim our first attention, on account not only of their value, but their associations.
They are placed together in a glass-case, marked No. 3. One of them is perhaps the most ancient
ring in existence, and is a magnificent signet of pure solid gold. It bears in a cartouch the
royal name of Amenophis I., and has an inscription on either side. The signet is hung upon
a swivel, and has hieroglyphics on what may be called the reverse. It is a large, heavy ring,
weighing 1 ounce, 6 pennyweights, 12 grains, was worn on the thumb, and taken from the mummy
at Memphis. It was purchased by Mr Sams at the sale of Mr Salt's collection in the year 1835,
for upwards of L.50, and is highly prized by the present proprietor. Some doubt still rests
upon Egyptian chronology. By certain antiquaries, this ring is supposed to have been worn by
the Pharaoh who ruled over the land while Joseph was prime-minister; but others, as has been
mentioned, place the reign of Amenophis I. after the departure of the Israelites.

The other is a diadem of pure gold, about seven inches in diameter, taken from the head of
a mummy. In the centre, a pyramid rises with a double cartouch on one side and a single one
on the other. Towards this twelve scarabæi are approaching, six on either side, emblematic
of the increase and decrease of the days in the twelve months; and between these is a procession
of boats, in which are deities and figures. In the inner side of this diadem the signs of the
zodiac are represented.

Among the jewellery in this collection we find several valuable necklaces in gold, coral, and
precious stones. Besides the Egyptian, there are some of Etruscan origin, taken from the tombs
of this ancient people. We cannot leave this subject without noticing the beauty and perfection
of the filigree-work, executed about 2400 years ago, and equal to modern workmanship. Some
exquisite specimens from Pompeii are preserved here.

Turning now to the walls of this apartment, we find glass-cases filled with vases in terra
cotta and eastern alabaster. On some of these are royal names, gilt and coloured; that of Cheops,
the builder of the great Pyramid, occurs on one. Another of these vessels, or the neck part
of one, is covered with cement, and sealed with three cartouches, besides having four others
painted on it. This, it is thought, may have contained the precious Theban wine, sealed with
the royal signet. There are many other things taken from the tombs which our space forbids
us to dwell upon; such as idols and figures, papyri and phylacteries, paint-pots and colours,
workman's tools, stone and wooden pillows or head-rests, and sandals; a patera with pomegranates,
another with barley, the seven-eared wheat of Scripture, bread and grapes, besides other fruits
and dainties which were supplied to the dead when deposited in the Theban tombs. On a tablet
here we find the name of that Amenophis or Phamenoph, who is celebrated as the Memnon of the
Greeks. We also find bricks as made by the Israelites, and stamped probably in accordance with
the regulations of the revenue department of old Egypt. There are preserved in this and the
adjoining apartments some beautiful ancient manuscripts, and an exceedingly valuable collection
of books on antiquities, to which the visitor has access.

We now ascend to the upper rooms, where in one is a collection of armour, and in the other,
the 'Majolica' Room, specimens of pottery, as revived in Europe in the fifteenth century by
Luca Della Rubbia, who was born in 1388. He discovered the art of glazing earthenware. In the
former of these rooms, all sorts of weapons and defensive apparatus are met with--modern, mediæval,
and antique; some are highly finished, others very rude. In the Majolica Room, there is much
matter for study, and those will fail to appreciate the value of the collection who have not
learned something of the history of the ware. Here is exhibited a Madonna and Child, of about
the year 1420, by Rubbia himself. It was given to Mr Mayer by the Grand Duke of Tuscany, when
the medal of Roscoe was struck and presented. There are five plates, made after the patterns
of the Moors, about the middle of that century, at Pessaro, near the Po; and four with portraits,
marked 'Majolica Amatorii.' We find several other specimens, shewing the most curious anachronisms
and blunders in design. The 'Temptation,' for example, is represented as a plate, with the
drawing of a town and a Dutch church. 'Jacob's Dream,' 'Joseph and his Brethren,' 'Alexander
and Darius,' 'Actæon and Diana,' and such scenes, seem to have been favourites. The specimens
of 'Mezza Majolica,' with raised centres, scroll-work borders, and embossed figures, are very
curious. There are two dishes, each eighteen inches in diameter, of Raffaelle ware, on one
of which is 'Christ healing the Sick,' and on the other, 'Christ driving out the Money-changers.'
Another, of Calabrian ware, is very curious: it is of brown clay, glazed, with four handles,
and inside are the figures of two priests officiating at an altar; behind, are female figures
overlooking, but concealed by latticed-work. There is one object here of local interest, and
with it we bring this description to a close. It is an earthenware map of Crosby, to the north
of Liverpool, made in 1716, at pottery works in Shaws-brow.

UNCLE TOM'S CABIN.

STORY OF UNCLE TOM.

A former paper on Mrs Stowe's remarkable book, presented a little episode, the heroine of which
was Eliza, a female slave on the estate of a Mr Shelby in Kentucky. We now turn to the story
of Tom himself, whose transfers from hand to hand afford the authoress an opportunity of describing
the private life and feelings of slave-owners, and the unwholesome and dangerous condition
of society in the south.

Tom, we have hinted, was jet black in colour, trustworthy and valued by his master, who was
compelled by necessity to part with him to Haley, a slave-trader. The separation of this honest
fellow from his wife Chloe, and his children, was a sad affair; but as Tom was of a hopeful
temperament, and under strong religious impressions, he did not repine at the fate he was about
to encounter, dreaded as that usually is by persons in his situation. Tom had just thanked
the little lady for her intentions, when the boat stopped at a landing-place. At its moving
on again, Eva, who leaned imprudently on the railings, fell overboard. I want him."'

Tom was purchased, and paid for. 'Come, Eva,' said St Clare, as he stepped across the boat
to his newly-acquired property. The description of this splendid mansion, with its lounging
and wasteful attendants, its indolent, pretty, and capricious lady-mistress, and the account
of Ophelia, a shrewd New-England cousin, who managed the household affairs, must be considered
the best, or at least the most amusing portion of the work. The authoress also dwells with
fondness on the character of the gentle Eva, a child of uncommon talents, but so delicate in
health, so ethereal, that while still on earth, she seems already an angel of paradise leading
and beckoning to Heaven. Eva was kind to everybody--kind even to Topsy, a negro girl whom St
Clare had one day bought out of mere charity, on seeing her cruelly lashed by her former master
and mistress. Topsy is a fine picture of a brutalised young negro, who never speaks the truth
even by chance, and steals because she cannot help it. Every one gives up Topsy as utterly
irreclaimable--all except the gentle Eva. Caught in a fresh act of theft, Topsy is led away by Eva.

Eva, after this, declined rapidly. The desire to do something was not confined to Tom. Every
servant in the establishment shewed the same feeling, and in their way did what they could.'
At length, the moment of departure of this highly-prized being arrives. St Clare was suddenly
killed in attempting to appease a quarrel in one of the coffee-rooms of New Orleans. His family
were plunged into grief and consternation; and by his trustees the whole of the servants in
the establishment, Uncle Tom included, were brought to sale in the open market. And here we
may recognise the St Clare servants, awaiting their turn with anxious and dejected faces. The
treatment of the poor negro was now most revolting. He was wrought hard under a burning sun;
half-starved; scourged; loaded with the grossest abuse. All this ends in a rapid decline of
health; and his story terminates with an account of his death, his last moments being dignified
by a strong sentiment of piety, and of forgiveness towards his inhuman taskmaster.

We have now presented a sufficiently ample abstract of Uncle Tom's Cabin, a work which will
undoubtedly be perused at length by all who feel deeply on the subject of negro slavery. Of
the authoress, Mrs H. B. Stowe, it may be said, that her chief merit consists in close observation
of character, with a forcible and truth-like power of delineation. In plot, supposing her to
aim at such a thing, she decidedly fails, and the winding-up of her dramatis personæ is hurried
and imperfect. Notwithstanding these defects, however, she has succeeded in rivetting universal
attention, while her aims are in the highest degree praiseworthy.

HANDEL IN DUBLIN.

If biographers will occasionally make assertions at random, and pass lightly over important
events, because their records are not at hand, while they give ample development to others,
just because the materials for doing so are more abundant, it is well that there is to be found
here and there an industrious littérateur, who will leave no leaf unturned, and no corner unexplored,
if he suspects that any error has been committed, or any passage of interest slighted, in the
memoirs of a favourite author.

Mr Mainwaring, the earliest biographer of Handel, and, on his authority, a host of subsequent
writers, took upon them to assert, without any apparent foundation, that the oratorio of the
Messiah was performed in London in the year 1741, previously to Handel's visit to Ireland;
but that it met with a cold reception, and this was one cause of his leaving England. Dr Burney,
when composing his History of Music, examined all the London newspapers where public amusements
were advertised during 1741 and for several previous years, but found no mention whatever of
this oratorio. He remembered, too, being a school-boy at Chester when Handel spent a week there,
waiting for fair winds to carry him across the Channel, and taking advantage of the delay 'to
prove some books that had been hastily transcribed, by trying the choruses which he intended
to perform in Ireland.' An amateur band was mustered for him, and the manuscript choruses thus
verified were those of the Messiah. In the absence, therefore, of stronger evidence to the
contrary, Dr Burney believed that Dublin had the honour of its first performance. An Irish
barrister has now proved this, we think, beyond dispute.[1] His evidence has been drawn from
the newspaper tomes of 1741, preserved in the public libraries of Dublin, confirmed by the
records of the cathedrals and some of the charitable institutions, and yet more emphatically
from some original letters of this date. He has thus succeeded in doing 'justice to Ireland,'
by securing for it, in all time to come, the distinguished place which it is entitled to occupy
in the history of this great man. Perhaps we should rather say, he has done justice to England,
by clearing it of the imputation of having 'coldly received' a musical production to which
immortal fame has since been decreed. While the musical world will thank our author for several
new facts particularly interesting to them, the main attraction for general readers will probably
be found in the glimpses which this volume affords of a beau monde which has passed away.

In 1720, a royal academy for the promotion of Italian operas was founded in London by some
of the nobility and gentry under royal auspices. Handel, Bononcini, and Areosti, were engaged
as a triumvirate of composers; and to Handel was committed the charge of engaging the singers.
But the rivalry between him and Bononcini rose to strife; the aristocratic patrons took nearly
equal sides; and a furious controversy on their respective merits was carried on for years.

When the withdrawal of both his rivals left Handel in sole possession of the field, he quarrelled
with some of his principal performers, and thereupon ensued new scenes of discord. Ladies of
the highest rank entered with enthusiasm into the strife; and while some flourished their fans
aloft on the side of Faustina, whom Handel had introduced in order to supersede Cuzzoni, another
party, headed by the Countess of Pembroke, espoused the cause of the depressed songstress,
and made her take an oath on the Holy Gospels, that she would never submit to accept a lower
salary than her rival. The humorous poets of the day took up the theme, Pope introduced it
into his Dunciad, and Arbuthnot published two witty brochures, entitled Harmony in an Uproar,
and The Devil to Pay at St James's. The result of these and other contests, in which Handel
gradually lost ground, was the establishment of a rival Opera at Lincoln's Inn Fields. It was
patronised by the Prince of Wales and most of the nobles; and not even the presence of the
king and queen, who continued the steady friends of Handel, could attract for him an audience
at the Haymarket. It became quite fashionable to decry his compositions as beneath the notice
of musical connoisseurs. Politics, it is said, came to mingle in the controversy; and those
who held by the king's Opera were as certainly Tories, as those who went to the nobility's
were Whigs. Of course all this was very foolish, and very wrong; yet in our days of stately
conventionality, when perfect impassibility is deemed the highest style of breeding, there
is something refreshing in reading of such animated scenes in high life. The crowning act of
hostility to Handel, was when the Earl of Middlesex himself assumed the profession of manager
of Italian operas, and engaged the king's theatre, with a new composer, and a new company.

Handel had, for some time, been meditating a withdrawal from the Opera, in order to devote
himself exclusively to the composition of sacred music, of which he had already produced several
fine specimens. He was wont to say, that this was an occupation 'better suited to the circumstances
of a man advancing in years, than that of adapting music to such vain and trivial words as
the musical drama generally consists of.' The truth was, he had discovered his forte. But the
tide of fashionable feeling ran so strongly against him, that even the performance of the oratorios
of Saul and Israel in Egypt scarcely paid expenses. Unwilling to submit his forthcoming Messiah
also to the caprices of fashion, and the malignity of party, he wisely embraced an opportunity
which was opened to him of bringing out this great work in Dublin, under singularly favourable
auspices, and crossed the Channel in November 1741.

Those who are acquainted with the Irish metropolis--not merely with the handsome streets and
squares eastward, which are now the abodes of gentility, but with the dirty thoroughfares about
the cathedrals--have observed the large houses which some of them contain, now let in single
rooms to a wretched population, and need scarcely be told that they were once the abodes of
wealth and luxury. Fishamble Street, in this quarter of the town, is one of the oldest streets
in Dublin. 'Under the eastern gable of the ancient cathedral of Christ's Church, separated
and hidden from it by a row of houses, it winds its crooked course down the hill from Castle
Street to the Liffey, as forlorn and neglected as other old streets in its vicinity. A number
of trunkmakers' shops give it an aspect somewhat peculiar; miserable alleys open from it on
the right and left; a barber's pole or two overhang the footway; and huxters' shops are frequent,
with their wonted array of articles more useful than ornamental. One would never guess, looking
at this old street, that it was once the festive resort of the wealthy and refined. It needs
an effort of imagination to conceive of it as having witnessed the gay throng of fashion and
aristocracy; the vice-regal cortège; ladies, in hoops and feathers; and "white-gloved beaux,"
in bag, and sword, and chapeau; with scores of liveried footmen and pages; and the press of
coaches, and chariots, and sedan-chairs. Yet such was the scene often presented here in the
eighteenth century.' For see, in an oblique angle of the street, and somewhat retired from
the other houses, is a mean, neglected old building, with a wooden porch, still known by name
as the Fishamble Street Theatre. This is the remaining part of what was originally 'the great
music-hall,' built by a charitable musical society, 'finished in the most elegant manner, under
the direction of Captain Castell,' and opened to the public on the 2d October 1741. It was
within these walls that the notes of the Messiah first sounded in the ears of an enraptured
audience, and here that its author entered on a new career of fame.

To prepare for the reception of this, his master-work, Handel first gave a series of musical
entertainments, consisting of some of his earlier oratorios, and other kindred compositions.
They commanded a most distinguished auditory, including the Lord-Lieutenant and his family,
and were crowned with success in a pecuniary point of view, answering, and indeed exceeding,
the composer's highest expectations. In a letter written at this time to Mr C. Jennens, who
had selected the words of the Messiah, and composed those of a cantata which had been much
admired, he describes, in glowing colours, his happy position, and informs him that he had
set the Messiah to music before he left England--thus inferentially affording additional evidence
that it had not been performed there. Moreover, the advertisements call it Handel's new oratorio,
and boast that it was composed expressly for the charitable purpose to which the proceeds of
its first performance were consecrated. This is confirmed by reference to the minutes of one
at least of these institutions, in which it appears that Handel was in correspondence with
them before he had completed his composition.

The people of Dublin are passionately fond of music, and charitable musical societies form
a peculiar and interesting feature of its society during the last century. These were academies
or clubs, each of which was attached in the way of patronage to some particular charity, to
which its revenues were consecrated. Whitelaw, in his History of Dublin (1758), mentions a
very aristocratic musical academy, which held its meetings in the Fishamble Street Hall, under
the presidency of the Earl of Mornington--the Duke of Wellington's father. His lordship was
himself the leader of the band; among the violoncellos were Lord Bellamont, Sir John Dillon,
and Dean Burke; among the flutes, Lord Lucan; at the harpsichord, Lady Freke; and so on. Their
meetings, we are told, were private, except once a year, when they performed in public for
a charitable purpose, and admitted all who chose to buy tickets. It does not appear, however,
that this academy was identical with the association that built the hall, and whose concerts
seem to have been much more frequent, as well as its benevolent designs more extensive. It
was called, par eminence, The Charitable Musical Society; the others having distinctive designations
besides. The objects of its benevolence were the prisoners of the Marshalseas, who were in
circumstances similar to those which, many years afterwards, elicited the benevolent labours
of John Howard: confined often for trifling debts, pining in hopeless misery, and without food,
save that received from the casual hand of charity. This society made a daily distribution
of bread among some of these, while others were released through their humane exertions. On
the 17th of March 1741, they report, that 'the Committee of the Charitable Musical Society
appointed for this year to visit the Marshalseas in this city, and release the prisoners confined
therein for debt, have already released 188 miserable persons of both sexes. They offered a
reasonable composition to the creditors, and many of the creditors being in circumstances almost
equally miserable with their debtors, due regard was paid by the committee to this circumstance.'
Their funds must have improved considerably after the erection of their Music Hall, which seems
to have been the largest room of the kind in Dublin, and in frequent requisition for public
concerts, balls, and other reunions where it was desirable to assemble a numerous company,
or employ a large orchestra. The hire of the hall on such occasions would form a handsome addition
to the proceeds of their own concerts.

It was to these funds that the proceeds of the first performance of the Messiah were devoted,
in connection with those of Mercer's Hospital, an old and still eminent school of surgery--and
the Royal Infirmary, which still exists in Jervis Street as a place for the immediate reception
of persons meeting with sudden accidents. There were above 700 people in the room, and the
sum collected for that noble and pious charity amounted to about L.400, out of which L.127
goes to each of the three great and pious charities.'

Handel remained five months longer in the Irish metropolis, during which period it is recorded
that 'he diverted the thoughts of the people from every other pursuit.' On his return to London
in August 1742, he was warmly received by his former friends; his enemies, too, were greatly
conciliated. His having relinquished all concern with operatic affairs, and opened for himself
a new and undisputed sphere, removed the old grounds of hostility; while the enthusiastic reception
which he had met in Dublin, had served as an effectual reproach to those whose malignity had
forced him to seek for justice there. Notwithstanding some difficulties at the outset of his
new career at home, he lived to realise an income of above L.2000 a year, and never found it
necessary or convenient to revisit Ireland; but the custom of performing his oratorios and
cantatas for the benefit of medical charities was maintained for many years; and it is believed
that the works of no other composer have so largely contributed to the relief of human suffering.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] An Account of the Visit of Handel to Dublin. By Horatio Townsend, Esq. London: Orr & Co.

ROYAL GARDENING.

Gardening has frequently been one of the most exhilarating recreations of royalty. When Lysander,
the Lacedemonian general, brought magnificent presents to Cyrus, the younger son of Darius,
who piqued himself more on his integrity and politeness than on his rank and birth, the prince
conducted his illustrious guest through his gardens, and pointed out to him their varied beauties.
Lysander, struck with so fine a prospect, praised the manner in which the grounds were laid
out, the neatness of the walks, the abundance of fruits planted with an art which knew how
to combine the useful with the agreeable; the beauty of the parterres, and the glowing variety
of flowers exhaling odours universally throughout the delightful scene. 'Everything charms
and transports me in this place,' said Lysander to Cyrus; 'but what strikes me most is the
exquisite taste and elegant industry of the person who drew the plan of these gardens, and
gave it the fine order, wonderful disposition, and happiness of arrangement which I cannot
sufficiently admire.' Cyrus replied: 'It was I that drew the plan, and entirely marked it out;
and many of the trees which you see were planted by my own hands.' 'What!' exclaimed Lysander
with surprise, and viewing Cyrus from head to foot--'is it possible, that with those purple
robes and splendid vestments, those strings of jewels and bracelets of gold, those buskins
so richly embroidered; is it possible that you could play the gardener, and employ your royal
hands in planting trees?' 'Does that surprise you?' said Cyrus. 'I assure you, that when my
health permits, I never sit down to table without having fatigued myself, either in military
exercise, rural labour, or some other toilsome employment, to which I apply myself with pleasure.'
Lysander, still more amazed, pressed Cyrus by the hand, and said: 'You are truly happy, and
deserve your high fortune, since you unite it with virtue.'

UNDER THE PALMS.

BY CALDER CAMPBELL.

    Under the palm-trees on India's shore
    Ne'er shall I wander at morning or eve;
    Hearts there have withered, but still in the core
    Of mine springs the memory of feelings that give
    Green thoughts in sunshine and bright hopes in gloom;
    Friendship, which love's loud emotions becalms:
    Oh, happy was I, in those bowers of perfume,
          Under the palms!

    Go forth, little children; the wood's insect-hum
    Invites ye; expand there, like buds in the sun;
    Leave schools and their studies for days that will come,
    And let thy first lessons from nature be won!
    Teachings hath nature most sage and most sweet--
    The music that swells in the tree-linnet's psalms;
    So taught, my young heart learned to prize that retreat
          Under the palms!

    The odour of jasmines afloat on the breeze,
    That woke in the dawning the birds on each bough;
    The frolicsome squirrels, that scampered at case
    'Mid lithe leaves and soft moss that smiled down below:
    Heaps piled up of mangoes, all fragrant and rich;
    Guavas pink-cored, such a wealth of sweet alms
    Presented by bright maids, whose sweet songs bewitch
          Under the palms!

    Pale, yellow bananas, with satiny pulp
    That tastes like some dainty of sugar and cream;
    Blithe-kernelled pomegranates, just gathered to help
    A feast fit to serve in the bowers of a dream!
    Milk, foaming and snowy; rice, swelling and sweet;
    Iced sherbet that cools, and spiced ginger that warms:
    Oh, simple our banquet in that dear retreat
          Under the palms!

    A tinkling of lutes and a toning of voices--
    Of young maiden voices just fresh from the bath;
    A sprinkling of rosewater cool, that rejoices
    The scented grass screening our bower from the path;
    Trim baskets of melons, new gathered, beside
    Fair bunches of blossoms that heal all sick qualms;
    And books, when to reading our fancies subside,
          Under the palms!

    Or silence at eve when the sun hath gone down,
    Or the sound of one cithern makes melody near;
    While a beautiful boy, that hath ne'er known a frown,
    Softly murmurs a tale of the East in the ear;
    Of peris, that cluster round flower-stalks like fruit--
    Of genii, that breathe amid blossoms and balms--
    Of gazelle-eyed houris, that play on sweet lutes
          Under the palms!

    Of roses, that nightly unfold their flower-leaves
    To welcome the lays of the loved nightingale--
    Of spirits, that home in an Eden of Eves
    Where the sun never scorches, the strength never fails!
    So singing, so playing, Sleep steals on us all,
    Enclasping us gently within her soft arms;--
    Let me dream that the moonbeams still over me fall
          Under the palms!

