  Therein is a lonesome room,
  Undisturbed as some old tomb
  That, built within a forest glen,
  Far from feet of living men,
  And sheltered by its black pine-trees
  From sound of rivers, lochs, and seas,
  Flings back its arched gateway tall,
  At times to some great funeral!
  Noiseless as a central cell
  In the bosom of a mountain
  Where the fairy people dwell,
  By the cold and sunless fountain!
  Breathless as a holy shrine,
  When the voice of psalms is shed!
  And there upon her stately bed,
  While her raven locks recline
  O'er an arm more pure than snow,
  Motionless beneath her head,--
  And through her large fair eyelids shine
  Shadowy dreams that come and go,
  By too deep bliss disquieted,--
  There sleeps in love and beauty's glow,
  The high-born Lady Edderline.

  Lo! the lamp's wan fitful light,
  Glide,--gliding round the golden rim!
  Restored to life, now glancing bright,
  Now just expiring, faint and dim!
  Like a spirit loath to die,
  Contending with its destiny.
  All dark! a momentary veil
  Is o'er the sleeper! now a pale
  Uncertain beauty glimmers faint,
  And now the calm face of the saint
  With every feature re-appears,
  Celestial in unconscious tears!
  Another gleam! how sweet the while,
  Those pictured faces on the wall,
  Through the midnight silence smile!
  Shades of fair ones, in the aisle
  Vaulted the castle cliffs below,
  To nothing mouldered, one and all,
  Ages long ago!

  From her pillow, as if driven
  By an unseen demon's hand
  Disturbing the repose of heaven,
  Hath fallen her head! The long black hair
  From the fillet's silken band
  In dishevelled masses riven,
  Is streaming downwards to the floor.
  Is the last convulsion o'er?
  And will that length of glorious tresses,
  So laden with the soul's distresses.
  By those fair hands in morning light,
  Above those eyelids opening bright,
  Be braided nevermore!
  No, the lady is not dead,
  Though flung thus wildly o'er her bed;
  Like a wretched corse upon the shore,
  That lies until the morning brings
  Searchings, and shrieks, and sorrowings;
  Or, haply, to all eyes unknown,
  Is borne away without a groan,
  On a chance plank, 'mid joyful cries
  Of birds that pierce the sunny skies
  With seaward dash, or in calm bands
  Parading o'er the silvery sands,
  Or mid the lovely flush of shells,
  Pausing to burnish crest or wing.
  No fading footmark see that tells
  Of that poor unremembered thing!

  O dreadful is the world of dreams,
  When all that world a chaos seems
  Of thoughts so fixed before!
  When heaven's own face is tinged with blood!
  And friends cross o'er our solitude,
  Now friends of our's no more!
  Or dearer to our hearts than ever.
  Keep stretching forth, with vain endeavour,
  Their pale and palsied hands,
  To clasp us phantoms, as we go
  Along the void like drifting snow.
  To far-off nameless lands!
  Yet all the while we know not why,
  Nor where those dismal regions lie,
  Half hoping that a curse to so deep
  And wild can only be in sleep,
  And that some overpowering scream
  Will break the fetters of the dream,
  And let us back to waking life,
  Filled though it be with care and strife;
  Since there at least the wretch can know
  The meanings on the face of woe,
  Assured that no mock shower is shed
  Of tears upon the real dead,
  Or that his bliss, indeed, is bliss,
  When bending o'er the death-like cheek
  Of one who scarcely seems alive,
  At every cold but breathing kiss.
  He hears a saving angel speak--
  'Thy love will yet revive!'

    [1] An artist of celebrity is now engaged on a portrait of Mr.
    Southey, cum privilegio, we suppose, Mr. Southey is not the only
    public man, whose lineaments have been traduced by engravers.
    Only look at some of the patriotic gentlemen who figure at public
    meetings, and in outline on cards, &c. But Houbraken is now
    known to have been no more honest than his successors in portrait
    engraving: although physiognomy and craniology ought to help the
    moderns out in these matters.

Then comes A Farewell to the year, one of Mr. Lockhart's elegant translations from the Spanish;
a pretty portrait of rustic simplicity--the Little Gleaner, by the editor; and some playful
lines by M.A. Shee, accompanying an engraving from his own picture of the Lost Ear-Rings. The
Wedding Wake, by George Darley, Esq. is an exquisite picture of saddened beauty. The Ettrick
Shepherd has the Carle of Invertine--a powerful composition, and the Cameronian Preacher, a
prose tale, of equal effect. In addition to the pieces already mentioned, by the editor, is
one of extraordinary excellence--the Magic Bridle: his Lines to a Boy plucking Blackberries,
are a very pleasing picture of innocence:--

          There stay in joy,
  Pluck, pluck, and eat thou happy boy;
  Sad fate abides thee. Thou mayst grow
  A man: for God may deem it so,
  I wish thee no such harm, sweet child:
  Go, whilst thou'rt innocent and mild:
  Go, ere earth's passions, fierce and proud,
  Rend thee as lightning rend the cloud:
  Go, go, life's day is in the dawn:
  Go, wait not, wish not to be man.

One of his pieces we quote entire:--

THE SEA KING'S DEATH-SONG.

  I'll launch my gallant bark no more,
    Nor smile to see how gay
  Its pennon dances, as we bound
    Along the watery way;
  The wave I walk on's mine--the god
    I worship is the breeze;
  My rudder is my magic rod
    Of rule, on isles and seas:
  Blow, blow, ye winds, for lordly France,
    Or shores of swarthy Spain:
  Blow where ye list, of earth I'm lord,
    When monarch of the main.

  When last upon the surge I rode,
    A strong wind on me shot,
  And tossed me as I toss my plume,
    In battle fierce and hot.
  Three days and nights no sun I saw,
    Nor gentle star nor moon;
  Three feet of foam dash'd o'er my decks,
    I sang to see it--soon
  The wind fell mute, forth shone the sun,
    Broad dimpling smiled the brine;
  I leap'd on Ireland's shore, and made
    Half of her riches mine.

  The wild hawk wets her yellow foot
    In blood of serf and king:
  Deep bites the brand, sharp smites the axe,
    And helm and cuirass ring;
  The foam flies from the charger's flanks,
    Like wreaths of winter's snow;
  Spears shiver, and the bright shafts start
    In thousands from the bow--
  Strike up, strike up, my minstrels all
    Use tongue and tuneful chord--
  Be mute!--My music is the clang
    Of cleaving axe and sword.

  Cursed be the Norseman who puts trust
    In mortar and in stone;
  Who rears a wall, or builds a tower,
    Or makes on earth his throne;
  My monarch throne's the willing wave,
    That bears me on the beach;
  My sepulchre's the deep sea surge,
    Where lead shall never reach;
  My death-song is the howling wind,
    That bends my quivering mast,--
  Bid England's maidens join the song,
    I there made orphans last.

  Mourn, all ye hawks of heaven, for me
    Oft, oft, by frith and flood,
  I called ye forth to feast on kings;
    Who now shall give ye food?
  Mourn, too, thou deep-devouring sea,
    For of earth's proudest lords
  We served thee oft a sumptuous feast
    With our sharp shining swords;
  Mourn, midnight, mourn, no more thou'lt hear
    Armed thousands shout my name.
  Nor see me rushing, red wet shod,
    Through cities doomed to flame.

  My race is run, my flight is flown;
    And, like the eagle free,
  That soars into the cloud and dies,
    I leave my life on sea.
  To man I yield not spear nor sword
    Ne'er harmed me in their ire,
  Vain on me Europe shower'd her shafts,
    And Asia pour'd her fire.
  Nor wound nor scar my body bears,
    My lip made never moan,
  And Odin bold, who gave me life,
    Now comes and takes his own.

  Light! light there! let me get one look,--
    Yon is the golden sky,
  With all its glorious lights, and there
    My subject sea flows by;
  Around me all my comrades stand,
    Who oft have trod with me
  On prince's necks, a joy that's flown,
    And never more may be.
  Now put my helmet on my head,
    My bright sword in my hand,
  That I may die as I have lived.
    In arms and high command.

In the prose department the most striking is the description of Abbotsford, quoted in our 339th
number. There is an affecting Tale of the Times of the Martyrs, by the Rev. Edward Irving,
which will repay the reader's curiosity. The Honeycomb and Bitter Gourd is a pleasing little
story; and Paddy Kelleger and his Pig, is a fine bit of humour, in Mr. Croker's best style.
The brief Memoir of the late Sir George Beaumont is a just tribute to the memory of that liberal
patron of the Fine Arts, and is an opportune introduction into such a work as the present.
The letter of Lord Byron, too, from Genoa in 1823, will be interesting to the noble poet's
admirers.

Among the illustrations we can only notice the Lute, by C. Rolls, after Bonnington; Morning,
by E. Goodall, from Linton's "joyful" picture; Sir W. Scott in his Study (qy. the forehead);
a little "Monkeyana," by Landseer; Chillon, by Wallis, from a drawing by Clarkson Stanfield--a
sublime picture; Fonthill, an exquisite scene from one of Turner's drawings; Beatrice, from
a picture by Howard; the Lake View of Newstead, after Danby; the Snuff-Box, from Stephanoff;
and last, though not least, Gainsborough's charming Young Cottagers, transferred to steel,
by J.H. Robinson--perhaps the most attractive print in the whole series.

With this hasty notice we conclude, in the language of our announcement of the present work,
"wishing the publisher many Anniversaries"

       *       *       *       *       *

FRIENDSHIP'S OFFERING.

EDITED BY THOMAS PRINGLE, ESQ.

The present volume will support, if not increase, the literary reputation which this elegant
work has enjoyed during previous years. The editor, Mr. Pringle, is a poet of no mean celebrity,
and, as we are prepared to show, his contribution, independent of his editorial judgment, will
do much toward the Friendship's Offering maintaining its ground among the Annuals for 1829.

There are twelve engravings and a presentation plate. Among the most beautiful of these are
Cupid and Psyche, painted by J. Wood, and engraved by Finden; Campbell Castle, by E. Goodall,
after G. Arnald; the Parting, from Haydon's picture now exhibiting with his Mock Election,
"Chairing;" Hours of Innocence, from Landseer; La Frescura, by Le Petit, from a painting by
Bone; and the Cove of Muscat, a spirited engraving by Jeavons, from the painting of Witherington.
All these are of first-rate excellence; but another remains to be mentioned--Glen-Lynden, painted
and engraved by Martin, a fit accompaniment for Mr. Pringle's very polished poem.

The first prose story is the Election, by Miss Mitford, with the hero a downright John Bull
who reads Cobbett. The next which most attracts our attention is Contradiction, by the author
of an Essay on Housekeepers--but the present is not so Shandean as the last-mentioned paper;
it has, however, many good points, and want of room alone prevents our transferring it. Then
comes the Covenanters, a Scottish traditionary tale of fixing interest; the Publican's Dream,
by Mr. Banim, told also in the Winter's Wreath, and Gem:

  Thrice the brindled cat hath mewed;

and Zalim Khan, a beautiful Peruvian tale of thirty pages, by Mr. Fraser. The French story,
La Fiancée de Marques, is a novelty for an annual, but in good taste. Tropical Sun-sets, by
Dr. Philip, is just to our mind and measure:--

A setting sun between the tropics is certainly one of the finest objects in nature.

From the 23rd degree north to the 27th degree south latitude, I used to stand upon the deck
of the Westmoreland an hour every evening, gazing with admiration upon a scene which no effort
either of the pencil or the pen can describe, so as to convey any adequate idea of it to the
mind of one who has never been in the neighbourhood of the equator. I merely attempt to give
you a hasty and imperfect outline.

The splendour of the scene generally commenced about twenty minutes before sun-set, when the
feathery, fantastic, and regularly crystallized clouds in the higher regions of the atmosphere,
became fully illumined by the sun's rays; and the fine mackerel-shaped clouds, common in these
regions, were seen hanging in the concave of heaven like fleeces of burnished gold. When the
sun approached the verge of the horizon, he was frequently seen encircled by a halo of splendour,
which continued increasing till it covered a large space of the heavens: it then began apparently
to shoot out from the body of the sun, in refulgent pencils, or radii, each as large as a rainbow,
exhibiting, according to the rarity or density of the atmosphere, a display of brilliant or
delicate tints, and of ever changing lights and shades of the most amazing beauty and variety.
About twenty minutes after sun-set these splendid shooting rays disappeared, and were succeeded
by a fine, rich glow in the heavens, in which you might easily fancy that you saw land rising
out of the ocean, stretching itself before you and on every side in the most enchanting perspective,
and having the glowing lustre of a bar of iron when newly withdrawn from the forge. On this
brilliant ground the dense clouds which lay nearest the bottom of the horizon, presenting their
dark sides to you, exhibited to the imagination all the gorgeous and picturesque appearances
of arches, obelisks, mouldering towers, magnificent gardens, cities, forests, mountains, and
every fantastic configuration of living creatures, and of imaginary beings; while the finely
stratified clouds a little higher in the atmosphere, might really be imagined so many glorious
islands of the blessed, swimming in an ocean of light.

The beauty and grandeur of the sunsets, thus imperfectly described, surpass inconceivably any
thing of a similar description which I have ever witnessed, even amidst the most rich and romantic
scenery of our British lakes and mountains.

Were I to attempt to account for the exquisite enjoyment on beholding the setting sun between
the tropics, I should perhaps say, that it arose from the warmth, the repose, the richness,
the novelty, the glory of the whole, filling the mind with the most exalted, tranquillizing,
and beautiful images.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is likewise a tale, Going to Sea, and the Ship's Crew, by Mrs. Bowdich, which equally
merits commendation.

Powerful as may be the aid which the editor has received from the contributors to the "Friendship's
Offering," we are bound to distinguish one of his own pieces--Glen-Lynden, a Tale of Teviot-dale,
as the sun of the volume. It is in Spenserian verse, and a more graceful composition cannot
be found in either of the Annuals. It is too long for entire extract, but we will attempt to
string together a few of its beauties. The scenery of the Glen is thus described:--

  A rustic home in Lynden's pastoral dell
  With modest pride a verdant hillock crown'd:
  Where the bold stream, like dragon from the fell,
  Came glittering forth, and, gently gliding round
  The broom-clad skirts of that fair spot of ground,
  Danced down the vale, in wanton mazes bending;
  Till finding, where it reached the meadow's bound,
  Romantic Teviot on his bright course wending.
  It joined the sounding streams--with his blue waters blending.

