My Life, Volume 1

By Richard Wagner

TABLE OF CONTENTS

    PREFACE
    CONTENTS
    MY LIFE

        PART I. 1813-1842
        PART II. 1842-1850 (Dresden)

PREFACE

The contents of these volumes have been written down directly from my dictation, over a period
of several years, by my friend and wife, who wished me to tell her the story of my life. It
was the desire of both of us that these details of my life should be accessible to our family
and to our sincere and trusted friends; and we decided therefore, in order to provide against
a possible destruction of the one manuscript, to have a small number of copies printed at our
own expense. As the value of this autobiography consists in its unadorned veracity, which,
under the circumstances, is its only justification, therefore my statements had to be accompanied
by precise names and dates; hence there could be no question of their publication until some
time after my death, should interest in them still survive in our descendants, and on that
point I intend leaving directions in my will.

If, on the other hand, we do not refuse certain intimate friends a sight of these papers now,
it is that, relying on their genuine interest in the contents, we are confident that they will
not pass on their knowledge to any who do not share their feelings in the matter.

Richard Wagner

CONTENTS

    Part I. 1813-1842

       Childhood and Schooldays
       Musical Studies
       Travels in Germany (First Marriage)
       Paris: 1839-42

    Part II. 1842-1850 (Dresden)

       'Rienzi'
       'The Flying Dutchman'
       Liszt, Spontini, Marschner, etc.
       'Tannhauser'
       Franck, Schumann, Semper, Gutzkow, Auerbach
       'Lohengrin' (Libretto)
       Ninth Symphony
       Spohr, Gluck, Hiller, Devrient
       Official Position.
       Studies in Historical Literature
       'Rienzi' at Berlin
       Relations with the Management, Mother's Death, etc.
       Growing Sympathy with Political Events, Bakunin
       The May Insurrection
       Flight: Weimar, Zurich, Paris, Bordeaux, Geneva, Zurich

ILLUSTRATIONS [not shown in e-text]

    FRONTISPIECE FOR VOLUME I

       Richard Wagner in 1842, from the Portrait by E. Kietz.

FRONTISPIECE FOR VOLUME II

       Richard Wagner about 1872 by Lenbach.

Original in the possession of Frau Cosima Wagner These frontispieces are used by the courtesy
of Mr. F. Bruckmann.

MY LIFE

PART I

1813-1842

I was born at Leipzig on the 22nd of May 1813, in a room on the second floor of the 'Red and
White Lion,' and two days later was baptized at St. Thomas's Church, and christened Wilhelm
Richard.

My father, Friedrich Wagner, was at the time of my birth a clerk in the police service at Leipzig,
and hoped to get the post of Chief Constable in that town, but he died in the October of that
same year. His death was partly due to the great exertions imposed upon him by the stress of
police work during the war troubles and the battle of Leipzig, and partly to the fact that
he fell a victim to the nervous fever which was raging at that time. As regards his father's
position in life, I learnt later that he had held a small civil appointment as toll collector
at the Ranstadt Gate, but had distinguished himself from those in the same station by giving
his two sons a superior education, my father, Friedrich, studying law, and the younger son,
Adolph, theology.

My uncle subsequently exercised no small influence on my development; we shall meet him again
at a critical turning-point in the story of my youth.

My father, whom I had lost so early, was, as I discovered afterwards, a great lover of poetry
and literature in general, and possessed in particular an almost passionate affection for the
drama, which was at that time much in vogue among the educated classes. My mother told me,
among other things, that he took her to Lauchstadt for the first performance of the Braut von
Messina, and that on the promenade he pointed out Schiller and Goethe to her, and reproved
her warmly for never having heard of these great men. He is said to have been not altogether
free from a gallant interest in actresses. My mother used to complain jokingly that she often
had to keep lunch waiting for him while he was paying court to a certain famous actress of
the day [FOOTNOTE: Madame Hartwig]. When she scolded him, he vowed that he had been delayed
by papers that had to be attended to, and as a proof of his assertion pointed to his fingers,
which were supposed to be stained with ink, but on closer inspection were found to be quite
clean. His great fondness for the theatre was further shown by his choice of the actor, Ludwig
Geyer, as one of his intimate friends. Although his choice of this friend was no doubt mainly
due to his love for the theatre, he at the same time introduced into his family the noblest
of benefactors; for this modest artist, prompted by a warm interest in the lot of his friend's
large family, so unexpectedly left destitute, devoted the remainder of his life to making strenuous
efforts to maintain and educate the orphans. Even when the police official was spending his
evenings at the theatre, the worthy actor generally filled his place in the family circle,
and it seems had frequently to appease my mother, who, rightly or wrongly, complained of the
frivolity of her husband.

How deeply the homeless artist, hard pressed by life and tossed to and fro, longed to feel
himself at home in a sympathetic family circle, was proved by the fact that a year after his
friend's death he married his widow, and from that time forward became a most loving father
to the seven children that had been left behind.

In this onerous undertaking he was favoured by an unexpected improvement in his position, for
he obtained a remunerative, respectable, and permanent engagement, as a character actor, at
the newly established Court Theatre in Dresden. His talent for painting, which had already
helped him to earn a livelihood when forced by extreme poverty to break off his university
studies, again stood him in good stead in his position at Dresden. True, he complained even
more than his critics that he had been kept from a regular and systematic study of this art,
yet his extraordinary aptitude, for portrait painting in particular, secured him such important
commissions that he unfortunately exhausted his strength prematurely by his twofold exertions
as painter and actor. Once, when he was invited to Munich to fulfil a temporary engagement
at the Court Theatre, he received, through the distinguished recommendation of the Saxon Court,
such pressing commissions from the Bavarian Court for portraits of the royal family that he
thought it wise to cancel his contract altogether. He also had a turn for poetry. Besides fragments--often
in very dainty verse--he wrote several comedies, one of which, Der Bethlehemitische Kindermord,
in rhymed Alexandrines, was often performed; it was published and received the warmest praise
from Goethe.

This excellent man, under whose care our family moved to Dresden when I was two years old,
and by whom my mother had another daughter, Cecilia, now also took my education in hand with
the greatest care and affection. He wished to adopt me altogether, and accordingly, when I
was sent to my first school, he gave me his own name, so that till the age of fourteen I was
known to my Dresden schoolfellows as Richard Geyer; and it was not until some years after my
stepfather's death, and on my family's return to Leipzig, the home of my own kith and kin,
that I resumed the name of Wagner.

The earliest recollections of my childhood are associated with my stepfather, and passed from
him to the theatre. I well remember that he would have liked to see me develop a talent for
painting; and his studio, with the easel and the pictures upon it, did not fail to impress
me. I remember in particular that I tried, with a childish love of imitation, to copy a portrait
of King Frederick Augustus of Saxony; but when this simple daubing had to give place to a serious
study of drawing, I could not stand it, possibly because I was discouraged by the pedantic
technique of my teacher, a cousin of mine, who was rather a bore. At one time during my early
boyhood I became so weak after some childish ailment that my mother told me later she used
almost to wish me dead, for it seemed as though I should never get well. However, my subsequent
good health apparently astonished my parents. I afterwards learnt the noble part played by
my excellent stepfather on this occasion also; he never gave way to despair, in spite of the
cares and troubles of so large a family, but remained patient throughout, and never lost the
hope of pulling me through safely.

My imagination at this time was deeply impressed by my acquaintance with the theatre, with
which I was brought into contact, not only as a childish spectator from the mysterious stagebox,
with its access to the stage, and by visits to the wardrobe with its fantastic costumes, wigs
and other disguises, but also by taking a part in the performances myself. After I had been
filled with fear by seeing my father play the villain's part in such tragedies as Die Waise
und der Morder, Die beiden Galeerensklaven, I occasionally took part in comedy. I remember
that I appeared in Der Weinberg an der Elbe, a piece specially written to welcome the King
of Saxony on his return from captivity, with music by the conductor, C. M. von Weber. In this
I figured in a tableau vivant as an angel, sewn up in tights with wings on my back, in a graceful
pose which I had laboriously practised. I also remember on this occasion being given a big
iced cake, which I was assured the King had intended for me personally. Lastly, I can recall
taking a child's part in which I had a few words to speak in Kotzebue's Menschenhass und Reue
[Footnote: 'Misanthropy and Remorse.'], which furnished me with an excuse at school for not
having learnt my lessons. I said I had too much to do, as I had to learn by heart an important
part in Den Menschen ausser der Reihe. [Footnote: 'The Man out of the Rank or Row.' In the
German this is a simple phonetic corruption of Kotzebue's title, which might easily occur to
a child who had only heard, and not read, that title.--EDITOR.]

On the other hand, to show how seriously my father regarded my education, when I was six years
old he took me to a clergyman in the country at Possendorf, near Dresden, where I was to be
given a sound and healthy training with other boys of my own class. In the evening, the vicar,
whose name was Wetzel, used to tell us the story of Robinson Crusoe, and discuss it with us
in a highly instructive manner. I was, moreover, much impressed by a biography of Mozart which
was read aloud; and the newspaper accounts and monthly reports of the events of the Greek War
of Independence stirred my imagination deeply. My love for Greece, which afterwards made me
turn with enthusiasm to the mythology and history of ancient Hellas, was thus the natural outcome
of the intense and painful interest I took in the events of this period. In after years the
story of the struggle of the Greeks against the Persians always revived my impressions of this
modern revolt of Greece against the Turks.

One day, when I had been in this country home scarcely a year, a messenger came from town to
ask the vicar to take me to my parents' house in Dresden, as my father was dying.

We did the three hours' journey on foot; and as I was very exhausted when I arrived, I scarcely
understood why my mother was crying. The next day I was taken to my father's bedside; the extreme
weakness with which he spoke to me, combined with all the precautions taken in the last desperate
treatment of his complaint--acute hydrothorax--made the whole scene appear like a dream to
me, and I think I was too frightened and surprised to cry.

In the next room my mother asked me to show her what I could play on the piano, wisely hoping
to divert my father's thoughts by the sound. I played Ueb' immer Treu und Redlichkeit, and
my father said to her, 'Is it possible he has musical talent?'

In the early hours of the next morning my mother came into the great night nursery, and, standing
by the bedside of each of us in turn, told us, with sobs, that our father was dead, and gave
us each a message with his blessing. To me she said, 'He hoped to make something of you.'

In the afternoon my schoolmaster, Wetzel, came to take me back to the country. We walked the
whole way to Possendorf, arriving at nightfall. On the way I asked him many questions about
the stars, of which he gave me my first intelligent idea.

A week later my stepfather's brother arrived from Eisleben for the funeral. He promised, as
far as he was able, to support the family, which was now once more destitute, and undertook
to provide for my future education.

I took leave of my companions and of the kind-hearted clergyman, and it was for his funeral
that I paid my next visit to Possendorf a few years later. I did not go to the place again
till long afterwards, when I visited it on an excursion such as I often made, far into the
country, at the time when I was conducting the orchestra in Dresden. I was much grieved not
to find the old parsonage still there, but in its place a more pretentious modern structure,
which so turned me against the locality, that thenceforward my excursions were always made
in another direction.

This time my uncle brought me back to Dresden in the carriage. I found my mother and sister
in the deepest mourning, and remember being received for the first time with a tenderness not
usual in our family; and I noticed that the same tenderness marked our leave-taking, when,
a few days later, my uncle took me with him to Eisleben.

This uncle, who was a younger brother of my stepfather, had settled there as a goldsmith, and
Julius, one of my elder brothers, had already been apprenticed to him. Our old grandmother
also lived with this bachelor son, and as it was evident that she could not live long, she
was not informed of the death of her eldest son, which I, too, was bidden to keep to myself.
The servant carefully removed the crape from my coat, telling me she would keep it until my
grandmother died, which was likely to be soon.

I was now often called upon to tell her about my father, and it was no great difficulty for
me to keep the secret of his death, as I had scarcely realised it myself. She lived in a dark
back room looking out upon a narrow courtyard, and took a great delight in watching the robins
that fluttered freely about her, and for which she always kept fresh green boughs by the stove.
When some of these robins were killed by the cat, I managed to catch others for her in the
neighbourhood, which pleased her very much, and, in return, she kept me tidy and clean. Her
death, as had been expected, took place before long, and the crape that had been put away was
now openly worn in Eisleben.

The back room, with its robins and green branches, now knew me no more, but I soon made myself
at home with a soap-boiler's family, to whom the house belonged, and became popular with them
on account of the stories I told them.

I was sent to a private school kept by a man called Weiss, who left an impression of gravity
and dignity upon my mind.

Towards the end of the fifties I was greatly moved at reading in a musical paper the account
of a concert at Eisleben, consisting of parts of Tannhauser, at which my former master, who
had not forgotten his young pupil, had been present.

The little old town with Luther's house, and the numberless memorials it contained of his stay
there, has often, in later days, come back to me in dreams. I have always wished to revisit
it and verify the clearness of my recollections, but, strange to say, it has never been my
fate to do so. We lived in the market- place, where I was often entertained by strange sights,
such, for instance, as performances by a troupe of acrobats, in which a man walked a rope stretched
from tower to tower across the square, an achievement which long inspired me with a passion
for such feats of daring. Indeed, I got so far as to walk a rope fairly easily myself with
the help of a balancing-pole. I had made the rope out of cords twisted together and stretched
across the courtyard, and even now I still feel a desire to gratify my acrobatic instincts.
The thing that attracted me most, however, was the brass band of a Hussar regiment quartered
at Eisleben. It often played a certain piece which had just come out, and which was making
a great sensation, I mean the 'Huntsmen's Chorus' out of the Freischutz, that had been recently
performed at the Opera in Berlin. My uncle and brother asked me eagerly about its composer,
Weber, whom I must have seen at my parents' house in Dresden, when he was conductor of the
orchestra there.

About the same time the Jungfernkranz was zealously played and sung by some friends who lived
near us. These two pieces cured me of my weakness for the 'Ypsilanti' Waltz, which till that
time I had regarded as the most wonderful of compositions.

I have recollections of frequent tussles with the town boys, who were constantly mocking at
me for my 'square' cap; and I remember, too, that I was very fond of rambles of adventure among
the rocky banks of the Unstrut.

My uncle's marriage late in life, and the starting of his new home, brought about a marked
alteration in his relations to my family.

After a lapse of a year I was taken by him to Leipzig, and handed over for some days to the
Wagners, my own father's relatives, consisting of my uncle Adolph and his sister Friederike
Wagner. This extraordinarily interesting man, whose influence afterwards became ever more stimulating
to me, now for the first time brought himself and his singular environment into my life.

He and my aunt were very close friends of Jeannette Thome, a queer old maid who shared with
them a large house in the market- place, in which, if I am not mistaken, the Electoral family
of Saxony had, ever since the days of Augustus the Strong, hired and furnished the two principal
storeys for their own use whenever they were in Leipzig.

So far as I know, Jeannette Thome really owned the second storey, of which she inhabited only
a modest apartment looking out on the courtyard. As, however, the King merely occupied the
hired rooms for a few days in the year, Jeannette and her circle generally made use of his
splendid apartments, and one of these staterooms was made into a bedroom for me.

The decorations and fittings of these rooms also dated from the days of Augustus the Strong.
They were luxurious with heavy silk and rich rococo furniture, all of which were much soiled
with age. As a matter of fact, I was delighted by these large strange rooms, looking out upon
the bustling Leipzig market-place, where I loved above all to watch the students in the crowd
making their way along in their old-fashioned 'Club' attire, and filling up the whole width
of the street.

There was only one portion of the decorations of the rooms that I thoroughly disliked, and
this consisted of the various portraits, but particularly those of high-born dames in hooped
petticoats, with youthful faces and powdered hair. These appeared to me exactly like ghosts,
who, when I was alone in the room, seemed to come back to life, and filled me with the most
abject fear. To sleep alone in this distant chamber, in that old-fashioned bed of state, beneath
those unearthly pictures, was a constant terror to me. It is true I tried to hide my fear from
my aunt when she lighted me to bed in the evening with her candle, but never a night passed
in which I was not a prey to the most horrible ghostly visions, my dread of which would leave
me in a bath of perspiration.

The personality of the three chief occupants of this storey was admirably adapted to materialise
the ghostly impressions of the house into a reality that resembled some strange fairy-tale.

Jeannette Thome was very small and stout; she wore a fair Titus wig, and seemed to hug to herself
the consciousness of vanished beauty. My aunt, her faithful friend and guardian, who was also
an old maid, was remarkable for the height and extreme leanness of her person. The oddity of
her otherwise very pleasant face was increased by an exceedingly pointed chin.

My uncle Adolph had chosen as his permanent study a dark room in the courtyard. There it was
that I saw him for the first time, surrounded by a great wilderness of books, and attired in
an unpretentious indoor costume, the most striking feature of which was a tall, pointed felt
cap, such as I had seen worn by the clown who belonged to the troupe of rope-dancers at Eisleben.
A great love of independence had driven him to this strange retreat. He had been originally
destined for the Church, but he soon gave that up, in order to devote himself entirely to philological
studies. But as he had the greatest dislike of acting as a professor and teacher in a regular
post, he soon tried to make a meagre livelihood by literary work. He had certain social gifts,
and especially a fine tenor voice, and appears in his youth to have been welcome as a man of
letters among a fairly wide circle of friends at Leipzig.

On a trip to Jena, during which he and a companion seem to have found their way into various
musical and oratorical associations, he paid a visit to Schiller. With this object in view,
he had come armed with a request from the management of the Leipzig Theatre, who wanted to
secure the rights of Wallenstein, which was just finished. He told me later of the magic impression
made upon him by Schiller, with his tall slight figure and irresistibly attractive blue eyes.
His only complaint was that, owing to a well-meant trick played on him by his friend, he had
been placed in a most trying position; for the latter had managed to send Schiller a small
volume of Adolph Wagner's poems in advance.

The young poet was much embarrassed to hear Schiller address him in flattering terms on the
subject of his poetry, but was convinced that the great man was merely encouraging him out
of kindness. Afterwards he devoted himself entirely to philological studios--one of his best-known
publications in that department being his Parnasso Italiano, which he dedicated to Goethe in
an Italian poem. True, I have heard experts say that the latter was written in unusually pompous
Italian; but Goethe sent him a letter full of praise, as well as a silver cup from his own
household plate. The impression that I, as a boy of eight, conceived of Adolph Wagner, amid
the surroundings of his own home, was that he was a peculiarly puzzling character.

