"Oh, Vincent, promise me, promise me, you won't do anything to Ted! It's all true about our
engagement, but it was more my fault than his."

"I can't believe that, Audrey. I'm very far from blaming him. I've no doubt you treated him
as you did me."

He sat down exhausted. Audrey, seeing the change of position, not the sudden collapse that
prompted it, was in despair.

"Won't you leave me alone now, Vincent? Haven't you said enough?"

"Not yet. Let me think a bit."

He leaned back and closed his eyes. He had so much to say, and now he had no words to say it with.

Audrey looked at the clock; it was half-past four. Would he begin again? She almost wished
he would; it would be better than this silence--better than that frowning forehead, with the
terrible accusing thoughts behind it. Would no one come? Would he never go?

Hardy had found words and was beginning to rouse himself, when in answer to her prayer the
door was thrown open. Her deliverance had come in the shape of Langley Wyndham.

Hardy's eyes followed her. A moment before she had sat white and trembling, shrunk up into
herself before the storm of his accusation; now, for that instant, her face became beautiful
as he had never seen it before. There was something dramatic in her movement as she rose and
went forward to meet Wyndham. There was no mistaking her manner and the tremor of her voice
as she spoke to him. Hardy knew his rival before he saw him.

"My cousin Mr. Hardy; Mr. Langley Wyndham."

The men looked at each other and bowed stiffly. Wyndham wondered. The scene they had just gone
through had left its mark on Hardy's face and Audrey's. The student of human nature congratulated
himself on the inspiration which had prompted him to call at this crisis. The cousin suggested
interesting complications in his heroine's life: judging by the set of his lower jaw, she must
have had a bad quarter of an hour with him. He would have to reconstruct that drama from the
fragments preserved.

When Wyndham sat down, Hardy sat down too. He suspected Audrey of having invited this man in
order to get rid of himself. She wanted him to go. A savage jealousy made him determined to
stay and spoil her pleasure. But Audrey, with Wyndham beside her, had recovered her presence
of mind. Unable to endure the situation longer, she was about to risk a bold stroke, by which
she would at once revenge herself on Vincent, escape from the torture of his society, and assure
herself of Wyndham's friendship.

After the preliminary commonplaces, she watched her opportunity till she could arrest Wyndham's
eyes with hers, throwing into their expression all that she knew of pathos and appeal. Then
she rose and held out her hand to Hardy, saying with distinct deliberation--

"I'm afraid you must excuse me now, Vincent; I have to take Mr. Wyndham to call on my uncle
Dean Craven."

The look that she turned on Wyndham said plainly, "You see I'm desperate. If you haven't enough
chivalry to back that up, I'm done for."

Happily for her, this time Wyndham's chivalry was equal to his intelligence. He answered in
the most natural manner possible--

"If Miss Craven is ready, I am. As I'm rather late, I think we'd better take a hansom."

They left Hardy stupefied with astonishment.

As they drove towards Charing Cross, she turned to Wyndham and said--

"Forgive my making use of you. Had you any other engagement?"

"I have no engagements."

"I am glad. It was the only thing I could think of to get rid of him. If you had left me, he
would have stayed; if I had gone out by myself, he would have followed. But it was good of
you to stand by me like that."

"Not at all. I'm delighted to call on Dean Craven, still more delighted to be of service to you."

"Thank you."

They said no more till, as they came in sight of the Hôtel Metropole, he turned to her with
a smile--

