"Sir, yes!  I know of her as the noblest creature and the gentlest and wisest that ever was
born.  And she is daughter to the king of Carthage, who took her when Aucassin was taken, and
carried her to the city of Carthage, when he knew surely that she was his daughter, and made
very great rejoicing over her.  And every day they wish to give her for lord one of the highest
kings in all Spain.  But she would rather let herself be hanged or drowned than she would take
any of them, were he ever so rich."

"Ah, fair sweet comrade," said the Count Aucassin, "if you would go back to that land, and
would tell her to come and speak to me, I would give you of my wealth as much as you should
dare ask or take.  Know, moreover, that for the love of her I will take no wife, were she of
ever so high degree, but I wait for her; nor will I ever have any wife save her.  And had I
known where to find her I should not now have to seek her."

"Sir," said she, "if you would do this, I would go to seek her, for your sake, and for hers,
whom I love much."

He sware to her; and then he bade give her twenty pounds.  And as she took leave of him, he
fell weeping for the sweetness of Nicolette.  And when she saw him weeping,

"Sir," said she, "be not afraid!  Since within a little while I will bring her to you in this
town, so that you shall see her."

And when Aucassin heard it he was very glad.  And she took leave of him, and went into the
town to the house of the Viscountess; for the Viscount her godfather was dead.  She harboured
her there; and spoke with her till she confessed her affair to her, and the Viscountess recognised
her, and knew surely that it was Nicolette, and that she had brought her up.  And she made
her be washed and bathed, and sojourn there a full eight days. And she took a plant which was
called Celandine and anointed herself with it, and she was as beautiful as she had ever been
at any time.  And she clad herself in rich silk stuffs, of which the lady had good store, and
she sat her down in the room on a quilted coverlet of cloth-of-silk, and called the lady, and
told her to go for Aucassin her friend.  And she did so.  And when she came to the palace she
found Aucassin weeping and lamenting for Nicolette his love, because she tarried so long. 
And the lady accosted him and said:

"Aucassin, now make no more lament, but come away with me, and I will show you the thing in
the world you love best, for it is Nicolette, your sweet friend, who from far land is come
to seek you."  And Aucassin was glad.

Here they sing.

Now when Aucassin did hear
Of his bright-of-favour fere,
That she had arrived the shore,
Glad was he, he ne'er was more.
With the dame he went his way,
Till the house made stop nor stay.
To the chamber went they in
Where sat Nicolette within.
When she saw her lover there,
Glad she was, so was she ne'er.
Towards him to her feet leapt she.
Aucassin, when he did see,
Both his arms to her he holds,
Gently to his bosom folds,
Kisses her on eyes and face.
So they left him the night's space,
Till the morrow's morning-tide
Aucassin took her to bride,
Made her Lady of Beaucaire.
Many days they then did fare,
And their pleasure did enjoy.
Now has Aucassin his joy,
Nicolette too the same way.
Here endeth our song-and-say;
    I know no further.

PRINTED BY TURNBULL AND SPEARS, EDINBURGH

Footnotes:

{39}  The device of the warder is to give his warning in the guise of an Aubade, as if he were
merely singing for his own amusement.  The Aubade, or Watch-song, was a favourite lyrical form
in Southern France. It was originally a dialogue between the lover, the lady, and the watchman
who played sentinel, and warned them that the Dawn was coming.

