Attempts have sometimes been made to explain the distribution of these fundamental structural
features by the theory of diffusion. We know that myths, religious ideas, types of social organization,
industrial devices, and other features of culture may spread from point to point, gradually
making themselves at home in cultures to which they were at one time alien. We also know that
words may be diffused no less freely than cultural elements, that sounds also may be "borrowed,"
and that even morphological elements may be taken over. We may go further and recognize that
certain languages have, in all probability, taken on structural features owing to the suggestive
influence of neighboring languages. An examination of such cases,[176] however, almost invariably
reveals the significant fact that they are but superficial additions on the morphological kernel
of the language. So long as such direct historical testimony as we have gives us no really
convincing examples of profound morphological influence by diffusion, we shall do well not
to put too much reliance in diffusion theories. On the whole, therefore, we shall ascribe the
major concordances and divergences in linguistic form--phonetic pattern and morphology--to
the autonomous drift of language, not to the complicating effect of single, diffused features
that cluster now this way, now that. Language is probably the most self-contained, the most
massively resistant of all social phenomena. It is easier to kill it off than to disintegrate
its individual form.

[Footnote 176: I have in mind, e.g., the presence of postpositions in Upper Chinook, a feature
that is clearly due to the influence of neighboring Sahaptin languages; or the use by Takelma
of instrumental prefixes, which are likely to have been suggested by neighboring "Hokan" languages
(Shasta, Karok).]

X

LANGUAGE, RACE AND CULTURE

Language has a setting. The people that speak it belong to a race (or a number of races), that
is, to a group which is set off by physical characteristics from other groups. Again, language
does not exist apart from culture, that is, from the socially inherited assemblage of practices
and beliefs that determines the texture of our lives. Anthropologists have been in the habit
of studying man under the three rubrics of race, language, and culture. One of the first things
they do with a natural area like Africa or the South Seas is to map it out from this threefold
point of view. These maps answer the questions: What and where are the major divisions of the
human animal, biologically considered (e.g., Congo Negro, Egyptian White; Australian Black,
Polynesian)? What are the most inclusive linguistic groupings, the "linguistic stocks," and
what is the distribution of each (e.g., the Hamitic languages of northern Africa, the Bantu
languages of the south; the Malayo-Polynesian languages of Indonesia, Melanesia, Micronesia,
and Polynesia)? How do the peoples of the given area divide themselves as cultural beings?
what are the outstanding "cultural areas" and what are the dominant ideas in each (e.g., the
Mohammedan north of Africa; the primitive hunting, non-agricultural culture of the Bushmen
in the south; the culture of the Australian natives, poor in physical respects but richly developed
in ceremonialism; the more advanced and highly specialized culture of Polynesia)?

The man in the street does not stop to analyze his position in the general scheme of humanity.
He feels that he is the representative of some strongly integrated portion of humanity--now
thought of as a "nationality," now as a "race"--and that everything that pertains to him as
a typical representative of this large group somehow belongs together. If he is an Englishman,
he feels himself to be a member of the "Anglo-Saxon" race, the "genius" of which race has fashioned
the English language and the "Anglo-Saxon" culture of which the language is the expression.
Science is colder. It inquires if these three types of classification--racial, linguistic,
and cultural--are congruent, if their association is an inherently necessary one or is merely
a matter of external history. The answer to the inquiry is not encouraging to "race" sentimentalists.
Historians and anthropologists find that races, languages, and cultures are not distributed
in parallel fashion, that their areas of distribution intercross in the most bewildering fashion,
and that the history of each is apt to follow a distinctive course. Races intermingle in a
way that languages do not. On the other hand, languages may spread far beyond their original
home, invading the territory of new races and of new culture spheres. A language may even die
out in its primary area and live on among peoples violently hostile to the persons of its original
speakers. Further, the accidents of history are constantly rearranging the borders of culture
areas without necessarily effacing the existing linguistic cleavages. If we can once thoroughly
convince ourselves that race, in its only intelligible, that is biological, sense, is supremely
indifferent to the history of languages and cultures, that these are no more directly explainable
on the score of race than on that of the laws of physics and chemistry, we shall have gained
a viewpoint that allows a certain interest to such mystic slogans as Slavophilism, Anglo-Saxondom,
Teutonism, and the Latin genius but that quite refuses to be taken in by any of them. A careful
study of linguistic distributions and of the history of such distributions is one of the driest
of commentaries on these sentimental creeds.

That a group of languages need not in the least correspond to a racial group or a culture area
is easily demonstrated. We may even show how a single language intercrosses with race and culture
lines. The English language is not spoken by a unified race. In the United States there are
several millions of negroes who know no other language. It is their mother-tongue, the formal
vesture of their inmost thoughts and sentiments. It is as much their property, as inalienably
"theirs," as the King of England's. Nor do the English-speaking whites of America constitute
a definite race except by way of contrast to the negroes. Of the three fundamental white races
in Europe generally recognized by physical anthropologists--the Baltic or North European, the
Alpine, and the Mediterranean--each has numerous English-speaking representatives in America.
But does not the historical core of English-speaking peoples, those relatively "unmixed" populations
that still reside in England and its colonies, represent a race, pure and single? I cannot
see that the evidence points that way. The English people are an amalgam of many distinct strains.
Besides the old "Anglo-Saxon," in other words North German, element which is conventionally
represented as the basic strain, the English blood comprises Norman French,[177] Scandinavian,
"Celtic,"[178] and pre-Celtic elements. If by "English" we mean also Scotch and Irish,[179]
then the term "Celtic" is loosely used for at least two quite distinct racial elements--the
short, dark-complexioned type of Wales and the taller, lighter, often ruddy-haired type of
the Highlands and parts of Ireland. Even if we confine ourselves to the Saxon element, which,
needless to say, nowhere appears "pure," we are not at the end of our troubles. We may roughly
identify this strain with the racial type now predominant in southern Denmark and adjoining
parts of northern Germany. If so, we must content ourselves with the reflection that while
the English language is historically most closely affiliated with Frisian, in second degree
with the other West Germanic dialects (Low Saxon or "Plattdeutsch," Dutch, High German), only
in third degree with Scandinavian, the specific "Saxon" racial type that overran England in
the fifth and sixth centuries was largely the same as that now represented by the Danes, who
speak a Scandinavian language, while the High German-speaking population of central and southern
Germany[180] is markedly distinct.

[Footnote 177: Itself an amalgam of North "French" and Scandinavian elements.]

[Footnote 178: The "Celtic" blood of what is now England and Wales is by no means confined
to the Celtic-speaking regions--Wales and, until recently, Cornwall. There is every reason
to believe that the invading Germanic tribes (Angles, Saxons, Jutes) did not exterminate the
Brythonic Celts of England nor yet drive them altogether into Wales and Cornwall (there has
been far too much "driving" of conquered peoples into mountain fastnesses and land's ends in
our histories), but simply intermingled with them and imposed their rule and language upon them.]

[Footnote 179: In practice these three peoples can hardly be kept altogether distinct. The
terms have rather a local-sentimental than a clearly racial value. Intermarriage has gone on
steadily for centuries and it is only in certain outlying regions that we get relatively pure
types, e.g., the Highland Scotch of the Hebrides. In America, English, Scotch, and Irish strands
have become inextricably interwoven.]

[Footnote 180: The High German now spoken in northern Germany is not of great age, but is due
to the spread of standardized German, based on Upper Saxon, a High German dialect, at the expense
of "Plattdeutsch."]

But what if we ignore these finer distinctions and simply assume that the "Teutonic" or Baltic
or North European racial type coincided in its distribution with that of the Germanic languages?
Are we not on safe ground then? No, we are now in hotter water than ever. First of all, the
mass of the German-speaking population (central and southern Germany, German Switzerland, German
Austria) do not belong to the tall, blond-haired, long-headed[181] "Teutonic" race at all,
but to the shorter, darker-complexioned, short-headed[182] Alpine race, of which the central
population of France, the French Swiss, and many of the western and northern Slavs (e.g., Bohemians
and Poles) are equally good representatives. The distribution of these "Alpine" populations
corresponds in part to that of the old continental "Celts," whose language has everywhere given
way to Italic, Germanic, and Slavic pressure. We shall do well to avoid speaking of a "Celtic
race," but if we were driven to give the term a content, it would probably be more appropriate
to apply it to, roughly, the western portion of the Alpine peoples than to the two island types
that I referred to before. These latter were certainly "Celticized," in speech and, partly,
in blood, precisely as, centuries later, most of England and part of Scotland was "Teutonized"
by the Angles and Saxons. Linguistically speaking, the "Celts" of to-day (Irish Gaelic, Manx,
Scotch Gaelic, Welsh, Breton) are Celtic and most of the Germans of to-day are Germanic precisely
as the American Negro, Americanized Jew, Minnesota Swede, and German-American are "English."
But, secondly, the Baltic race was, and is, by no means an exclusively Germanic-speaking people.
The northernmost "Celts," such as the Highland Scotch, are in all probability a specialized
offshoot of this race. What these people spoke before they were Celticized nobody knows, but
there is nothing whatever to indicate that they spoke a Germanic language. Their language may
quite well have been as remote from any known Indo-European idiom as are Basque and Turkish
to-day. Again, to the east of the Scandinavians are non-Germanic members of the race--the Finns
and related peoples, speaking languages that are not definitely known to be related to Indo-European
at all.

[Footnote 181: "Dolichocephalic."]

[Footnote 182: "Brachycephalic."]

We cannot stop here. The geographical position of the Germanic languages is such[183] as to
make it highly probable that they represent but an outlying transfer of an Indo-European dialect
(possibly a Celto-Italic prototype) to a Baltic people speaking a language or a group of languages
that was alien to Indo-European.[184] Not only, then, is English not spoken by a unified race
at present but its prototype, more likely than not, was originally a foreign language to the
race with which English is more particularly associated. We need not seriously entertain the
idea that English or the group of languages to which it belongs is in any intelligible sense
the expression of race, that there are embedded in it qualities that reflect the temperament
or "genius" of a particular breed of human beings.

[Footnote 183: By working back from such data as we possess we can make it probable that these
languages were originally confined to a comparatively small area in northern Germany and Scandinavia.
This area is clearly marginal to the total area of distribution of the Indo-European-speaking
peoples. Their center of gravity, say 1000 B.C., seems to have lain in southern Russia.]

[Footnote 184: While this is only a theory, the technical evidence for it is stronger than
one might suppose. There are a surprising number of common and characteristic Germanic words
which cannot be connected with known Indo-European radical elements and which may well be survivals
of the hypothetical pre-Germanic language; such are house, stone, sea, wife (German Haus, Stein,
See, Weib).]

Many other, and more striking, examples of the lack of correspondence between race and language
could be given if space permitted. One instance will do for many. The Malayo-Polynesian languages
form a well-defined group that takes in the southern end of the Malay Peninsula and the tremendous
island world to the south and east (except Australia and the greater part of New Guinea). In
this vast region we find represented no less than three distinct races--the Negro-like Papuans
of New Guinea and Melanesia, the Malay race of Indonesia, and the Polynesians of the outer
islands. The Polynesians and Malays all speak languages of the Malayo-Polynesian group, while
the languages of the Papuans belong partly to this group (Melanesian), partly to the unrelated
languages ("Papuan") of New Guinea.[185] In spite of the fact that the greatest race cleavage
in this region lies between the Papuans and the Polynesians, the major linguistic division
is of Malayan on the one side, Melanesian and Polynesian on the other.

[Footnote 185: Only the easternmost part of this island is occupied by Melanesian-speaking
Papuans.]

As with race, so with culture. Particularly in more primitive levels, where the secondarily
unifying power of the "national"[186] ideal does not arise to disturb the flow of what we might
call natural distributions, is it easy to show that language and culture are not intrinsically
associated. Totally unrelated languages share in one culture, closely related languages--even
a single language--belong to distinct culture spheres. There are many excellent examples in
aboriginal America. The Athabaskan languages form as clearly unified, as structurally specialized,
a group as any that I know of.[187] The speakers of these languages belong to four distinct
culture areas--the simple hunting culture of western Canada and the interior of Alaska (Loucheux,
Chipewyan), the buffalo culture of the Plains (Sarcee), the highly ritualized culture of the
southwest (Navaho), and the peculiarly specialized culture of northwestern California (Hupa).
The cultural adaptability of the Athabaskan-speaking peoples is in the strangest contrast to
the inaccessibility to foreign influences of the languages themselves.[188] The Hupa Indians
are very typical of the culture area to which they belong. Culturally identical with them are
the neighboring Yurok and Karok. There is the liveliest intertribal intercourse between the
Hupa, Yurok, and Karok, so much so that all three generally attend an important religious ceremony
given by any one of them. It is difficult to say what elements in their combined culture belong
in origin to this tribe or that, so much at one are they in communal action, feeling, and thought.
But their languages are not merely alien to each other; they belong to three of the major American
linguistic groups, each with an immense distribution on the northern continent. Hupa, as we
have seen, is Athabaskan and, as such, is also distantly related to Haida (Queen Charlotte
Islands) and Tlingit (southern Alaska); Yurok is one of the two isolated Californian languages
of the Algonkin stock, the center of gravity of which lies in the region of the Great Lakes;
Karok is the northernmost member of the Hokan group, which stretches far to the south beyond
the confines of California and has remoter relatives along the Gulf of Mexico.

[Footnote 186: A "nationality" is a major, sentimentally unified, group. The historical factors
that lead to the feeling of national unity are various--political, cultural, linguistic, geographic,
sometimes specifically religious. True racial factors also may enter in, though the accent
on "race" has generally a psychological rather than a strictly biological value. In an area
dominated by the national sentiment there is a tendency for language and culture to become
uniform and specific, so that linguistic and cultural boundaries at least tend to coincide.
Even at best, however, the linguistic unification is never absolute, while the cultural unity
is apt to be superficial, of a quasi-political nature, rather than deep and far-reaching.]

[Footnote 187: The Semitic languages, idiosyncratic as they are, are no more definitely ear-marked.]

[Footnote 188: See page 209.]

Returning to English, most of us would readily admit, I believe, that the community of language
between Great Britain and the United States is far from arguing a like community of culture.
It is customary to say that they possess a common "Anglo-Saxon" cultural heritage, but are
not many significant differences in life and feeling obscured by the tendency of the "cultured"
to take this common heritage too much for granted? In so far as America is still specifically
"English," it is only colonially or vestigially so; its prevailing cultural drift is partly
towards autonomous and distinctive developments, partly towards immersion in the larger European
culture of which that of England is only a particular facet. We cannot deny that the possession
of a common language is still and will long continue to be a smoother of the way to a mutual
cultural understanding between England and America, but it is very clear that other factors,
some of them rapidly cumulative, are working powerfully to counteract this leveling influence.
A common language cannot indefinitely set the seal on a common culture when the geographical,
political, and economic determinants of the culture are no longer the same throughout its area.

Language, race, and culture are not necessarily correlated. This does not mean that they never
are. There is some tendency, as a matter of fact, for racial and cultural lines of cleavage
to correspond to linguistic ones, though in any given case the latter may not be of the same
degree of importance as the others. Thus, there is a fairly definite line of cleavage between
the Polynesian languages, race, and culture on the one hand and those of the Melanesians on
the other, in spite of a considerable amount of overlapping.[189] The racial and cultural division,
however, particularly the former, are of major importance, while the linguistic division is
of quite minor significance, the Polynesian languages constituting hardly more than a special
dialectic subdivision of the combined Melanesian-Polynesian group. Still clearer-cut coincidences
of cleavage may be found. The language, race, and culture of the Eskimo are markedly distinct
from those of their neighbors;[190] in southern Africa the language, race, and culture of the
Bushmen offer an even stronger contrast to those of their Bantu neighbors. Coincidences of
this sort are of the greatest significance, of course, but this significance is not one of
inherent psychological relation between the three factors of race, language, and culture. The
coincidences of cleavage point merely to a readily intelligible historical association. If
the Bantu and Bushmen are so sharply differentiated in all respects, the reason is simply that
the former are relatively recent arrivals in southern Africa. The two peoples developed in
complete isolation from each other; their present propinquity is too recent for the slow process
of cultural and racial assimilation to have set in very powerfully. As we go back in time,
we shall have to assume that relatively scanty populations occupied large territories for untold
generations and that contact with other masses of population was not as insistent and prolonged
as it later became. The geographical and historical isolation that brought about race differentiations
was naturally favorable also to far-reaching variations in language and culture. The very fact
that races and cultures which are brought into historical contact tend to assimilate in the
long run, while neighboring languages assimilate each other only casually and in superficial
respects[191], indicates that there is no profound causal relation between the development
of language and the specific development of race and of culture.

[Footnote 189: The Fijians, for instance, while of Papuan (negroid) race, are Polynesian rather
than Melanesian in their cultural and linguistic affinities.]

[Footnote 190: Though even here there is some significant overlapping. The southernmost Eskimo
of Alaska were assimilated in culture to their Tlingit neighbors. In northeastern Siberia,
too, there is no sharp cultural line between the Eskimo and the Chukchi.]

[Footnote 191: The supersession of one language by another is of course not truly a matter
of linguistic assimilation.]

But surely, the wary reader will object, there must be some relation between language and culture,
and between language and at least that intangible aspect of race that we call "temperament".
Is it not inconceivable that the particular collective qualities of mind that have fashioned
a culture are not precisely the same as were responsible for the growth of a particular linguistic
morphology? This question takes us into the heart of the most difficult problems of social
psychology. It is doubtful if any one has yet attained to sufficient clarity on the nature
of the historical process and on the ultimate psychological factors involved in linguistic
and cultural drifts to answer it intelligently. I can only very briefly set forth my own views,
or rather my general attitude. It would be very difficult to prove that "temperament", the
general emotional disposition of a people[192], is basically responsible for the slant and
drift of a culture, however much it may manifest itself in an individual's handling of the
elements of that culture. But granted that temperament has a certain value for the shaping
of culture, difficult though it be to say just how, it does not follow that it has the same
value for the shaping of language. It is impossible to show that the form of a language has
the slightest connection with national temperament. Its line of variation, its drift, runs
inexorably in the channel ordained for it by its historic antecedents; it is as regardless
of the feelings and sentiments of its speakers as is the course of a river of the atmospheric
humors of the landscape. I am convinced that it is futile to look in linguistic structure for
differences corresponding to the temperamental variations which are supposed to be correlated
with race. In this connection it is well to remember that the emotional aspect of our psychic
life is but meagerly expressed in the build of language[193].

[Footnote 192: "Temperament" is a difficult term to work with. A great deal of what is loosely
charged to national "temperament" is really nothing but customary behavior, the effect of traditional
ideals of conduct. In a culture, for instance, that does not look kindly upon demonstrativeness,
the natural tendency to the display of emotion becomes more than normally inhibited. It would
be quite misleading to argue from the customary inhibition, a cultural fact, to the native
temperament. But ordinarily we can get at human conduct only as it is culturally modified.
Temperament in the raw is a highly elusive thing.]

[Footnote 193: See pages 39, 40.]

Language and our thought-grooves are inextricably interwoven, are, in a sense, one and the
same. As there is nothing to show that there are significant racial differences in the fundamental
conformation of thought, it follows that the infinite variability of linguistic form, another
name for the infinite variability of the actual process of thought, cannot be an index of such
significant racial differences. This is only apparently a paradox. The latent content of all
languages is the same--the intuitive science of experience. It is the manifest form that is
never twice the same, for this form, which we call linguistic morphology, is nothing more nor
less than a collective art of thought, an art denuded of the irrelevancies of individual sentiment.
At last analysis, then, language can no more flow from race as such than can the sonnet form.

Nor can I believe that culture and language are in any true sense causally related. Culture
may be defined as what a society does and thinks. Language is a particular how of thought.
It is difficult to see what particular causal relations may be expected to subsist between
a selected inventory of experience (culture, a significant selection made by society) and the
particular manner in which the society expresses all experience. The drift of culture, another
way of saying history, is a complex series of changes in society's selected inventory--additions,
losses, changes of emphasis and relation. The drift of language is not properly concerned with
changes of content at all, merely with changes in formal expression. It is possible, in thought,
to change every sound, word, and concrete concept of a language without changing its inner
actuality in the least, just as one can pour into a fixed mold water or plaster or molten gold.
If it can be shown that culture has an innate form, a series of contours, quite apart from
subject-matter of any description whatsoever, we have a something in culture that may serve
as a term of comparison with and possibly a means of relating it to language. But until such
purely formal patterns of culture are discovered and laid bare, we shall do well to hold the
drifts of language and of culture to be non-comparable and unrelated processes. From this it
follows that all attempts to connect particular types of linguistic morphology with certain
correlated stages of cultural development are vain. Rightly understood, such correlations are
rubbish. The merest coup d'oeil verifies our theoretical argument on this point. Both simple
and complex types of language of an indefinite number of varieties may be found spoken at any
desired level of cultural advance. When it comes to linguistic form, Plato walks with the Macedonian
swineherd, Confucius with the head-hunting savage of Assam.

It goes without saying that the mere content of language is intimately related to culture.
A society that has no knowledge of theosophy need have no name for it; aborigines that had
never seen or heard of a horse were compelled to invent or borrow a word for the animal when
they made his acquaintance. In the sense that the vocabulary of a language more or less faithfully
reflects the culture whose purposes it serves it is perfectly true that the history of language
and the history of culture move along parallel lines. But this superficial and extraneous kind
of parallelism is of no real interest to the linguist except in so far as the growth or borrowing
of new words incidentally throws light on the formal trends of the language. The linguistic
student should never make the mistake of identifying a language with its dictionary.

If both this and the preceding chapter have been largely negative in their contentions, I believe
that they have been healthily so. There is perhaps no better way to learn the essential nature
of speech than to realize what it is not and what it does not do. Its superficial connections
with other historic processes are so close that it needs to be shaken free of them if we are
to see it in its own right. Everything that we have so far seen to be true of language points
to the fact that it is the most significant and colossal work that the human spirit has evolved--nothing
short of a finished form of expression for all communicable experience. This form may be endlessly
varied by the individual without thereby losing its distinctive contours; and it is constantly
reshaping itself as is all art. Language is the most massive and inclusive art we know, a mountainous
and anonymous work of unconscious generations.

XI

LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE

Languages are more to us than systems of thought-transference. They are invisible garments
that drape themselves about our spirit and give a predetermined form to all its symbolic expression.
When the expression is of unusual significance, we call it literature.[194] Art is so personal
an expression that we do not like to feel that it is bound to predetermined form of any sort.
The possibilities of individual expression are infinite, language in particular is the most
fluid of mediums. Yet some limitation there must be to this freedom, some resistance of the
medium. In great art there is the illusion of absolute freedom. The formal restraints imposed
by the material--paint, black and white, marble, piano tones, or whatever it may be--are not
perceived; it is as though there were a limitless margin of elbow-room between the artist's
fullest utilization of form and the most that the material is innately capable of. The artist
has intuitively surrendered to the inescapable tyranny of the material, made its brute nature
fuse easily with his conception.[195] The material "disappears" precisely because there is
nothing in the artist's conception to indicate that any other material exists. For the time
being, he, and we with him, move in the artistic medium as a fish moves in the water, oblivious
of the existence of an alien atmosphere. No sooner, however, does the artist transgress the
law of his medium than we realize with a start that there is a medium to obey.

[Footnote 194: I can hardly stop to define just what kind of expression is "significant" enough
to be called art or literature. Besides, I do not exactly know. We shall have to take literature
for granted.]

[Footnote 195: This "intuitive surrender" has nothing to do with subservience to artistic convention.
More than one revolt in modern art has been dominated by the desire to get out of the material
just what it is really capable of. The impressionist wants light and color because paint can
give him just these; "literature" in painting, the sentimental suggestion of a "story," is
offensive to him because he does not want the virtue of his particular form to be dimmed by
shadows from another medium. Similarly, the poet, as never before, insists that words mean
just what they really mean.]

Language is the medium of literature as marble or bronze or clay are the materials of the sculptor.
Since every language has its distinctive peculiarities, the innate formal limitations--and
possibilities--of one literature are never quite the same as those of another. The literature
fashioned out of the form and substance of a language has the color and the texture of its
matrix. The literary artist may never be conscious of just how he is hindered or helped or
otherwise guided by the matrix, but when it is a question of translating his work into another
language, the nature of the original matrix manifests itself at once. All his effects have
been calculated, or intuitively felt, with reference to the formal "genius" of his own language;
they cannot be carried over without loss or modification. Croce[196] is therefore perfectly
right in saying that a work of literary art can never be translated. Nevertheless literature
does get itself translated, sometimes with astonishing adequacy. This brings up the question
whether in the art of literature there are not intertwined two distinct kinds or levels of
art--a generalized, non-linguistic art, which can be transferred without loss into an alien
linguistic medium, and a specifically linguistic art that is not transferable.[197] I believe
the distinction is entirely valid, though we never get the two levels pure in practice. Literature
moves in language as a medium, but that medium comprises two layers, the latent content of
language--our intuitive record of experience--and the particular conformation of a given language--the
specific how of our record of experience. Literature that draws its sustenance mainly--never
entirely--from the lower level, say a play of Shakespeare's, is translatable without too great
a loss of character. If it moves in the upper rather than in the lower level--a fair example
is a lyric of Swinburne's--it is as good as untranslatable. Both types of literary expression
may be great or mediocre.

[Footnote 196: See Benedetto Croce, "Aesthetic."]

[Footnote 197: The question of the transferability of art productions seems to me to be of
genuine theoretic interest. For all that we speak of the sacrosanct uniqueness of a given art
work, we know very well, though we do not always admit it, that not all productions are equally
intractable to transference. A Chopin étude is inviolate; it moves altogether in the world
of piano tone. A Bach fugue is transferable into another set of musical timbres without serious
loss of esthetic significance. Chopin plays with the language of the piano as though no other
language existed (the medium "disappears"); Bach speaks the language of the piano as a handy
means of giving outward expression to a conception wrought in the generalized language of tone.]

There is really no mystery in the distinction. It can be clarified a little by comparing literature
with science. A scientific truth is impersonal, in its essence it is untinctured by the particular
linguistic medium in which it finds expression. It can as readily deliver its message in Chinese[198]
as in English. Nevertheless it must have some expression, and that expression must needs be
a linguistic one. Indeed the apprehension of the scientific truth is itself a linguistic process,
for thought is nothing but language denuded of its outward garb. The proper medium of scientific
expression is therefore a generalized language that may be defined as a symbolic algebra of
which all known languages are translations. One can adequately translate scientific literature
because the original scientific expression is itself a translation. Literary expression is
personal and concrete, but this does not mean that its significance is altogether bound up
with the accidental qualities of the medium. A truly deep symbolism, for instance, does not
depend on the verbal associations of a particular language but rests securely on an intuitive
basis that underlies all linguistic expression. The artist's "intuition," to use Croce's term,
is immediately fashioned out of a generalized human experience--thought and feeling--of which
his own individual experience is a highly personalized selection. The thought relations in
this deeper level have no specific linguistic vesture; the rhythms are free, not bound, in
the first instance, to the traditional rhythms of the artist's language. Certain artists whose
spirit moves largely in the non-linguistic (better, in the generalized linguistic) layer even
find a certain difficulty in getting themselves expressed in the rigidly set terms of their
accepted idiom. One feels that they are unconsciously striving for a generalized art language,
a literary algebra, that is related to the sum of all known languages as a perfect mathematical
symbolism is related to all the roundabout reports of mathematical relations that normal speech
is capable of conveying. Their art expression is frequently strained, it sounds at times like
a translation from an unknown original--which, indeed, is precisely what it is. These artists--Whitmans
and Brownings--impress us rather by the greatness of their spirit than the felicity of their
art. Their relative failure is of the greatest diagnostic value as an index of the pervasive
presence in literature of a larger, more intuitive linguistic medium than any particular language.

[Footnote 198: Provided, of course, Chinese is careful to provide itself with the necessary
scientific vocabulary. Like any other language, it can do so without serious difficulty if
the need arises.]

Nevertheless, human expression being what it is, the greatest--or shall we say the most satisfying--literary
artists, the Shakespeares and Heines, are those who have known subconsciously to fit or trim
the deeper intuition to the provincial accents of their daily speech. In them there is no effect
of strain. Their personal "intuition" appears as a completed synthesis of the absolute art
of intuition and the innate, specialized art of the linguistic medium. With Heine, for instance,
one is under the illusion that the universe speaks German. The material "disappears."

Every language is itself a collective art of expression. There is concealed in it a particular
set of esthetic factors--phonetic, rhythmic, symbolic, morphological--which it does not completely
share with any other language. These factors may either merge their potencies with those of
that unknown, absolute language to which I have referred--this is the method of Shakespeare
and Heine--or they may weave a private, technical art fabric of their own, the innate art of
the language intensified or sublimated. The latter type, the more technically "literary" art
of Swinburne and of hosts of delicate "minor" poets, is too fragile for endurance. It is built
out of spiritualized material, not out of spirit. The successes of the Swinburnes are as valuable
for diagnostic purposes as the semi-failures of the Brownings. They show to what extent literary
art may lean on the collective art of the language itself. The more extreme technical practitioners
may so over-individualize this collective art as to make it almost unendurable. One is not
always thankful to have one's flesh and blood frozen to ivory.

An artist must utilize the native esthetic resources of his speech. He may be thankful if the
given palette of colors is rich, if the springboard is light. But he deserves no special credit
for felicities that are the language's own. We must take for granted this language with all
its qualities of flexibility or rigidity and see the artist's work in relation to it. A cathedral
on the lowlands is higher than a stick on Mont Blanc. In other words, we must not commit the
folly of admiring a French sonnet because the vowels are more sonorous than our own or of condemning
Nietzsche's prose because it harbors in its texture combinations of consonants that would affright
on English soil. To so judge literature would be tantamount to loving "Tristan und Isolde"
because one is fond of the timbre of horns. There are certain things that one language can
do supremely well which it would be almost vain for another to attempt. Generally there are
compensations. The vocalism of English is an inherently drabber thing than the vowel scale
of French, yet English compensates for this drawback by its greater rhythmical alertness. It
is even doubtful if the innate sonority of a phonetic system counts for as much, as esthetic
determinant, as the relations between the sounds, the total gamut of their similarities and
contrasts. As long as the artist has the wherewithal to lay out his sequences and rhythms,
it matters little what are the sensuous qualities of the elements of his material.

The phonetic groundwork of a language, however, is only one of the features that give its literature
a certain direction. Far more important are its morphological peculiarities. It makes a great
deal of difference for the development of style if the language can or cannot create compound
words, if its structure is synthetic or analytic, if the words of its sentences have considerable
freedom of position or are compelled to fall into a rigidly determined sequence. The major
characteristics of style, in so far as style is a technical matter of the building and placing
of words, are given by the language itself, quite as inescapably, indeed, as the general acoustic
effect of verse is given by the sounds and natural accents of the language. These necessary
fundamentals of style are hardly felt by the artist to constrain his individuality of expression.
They rather point the way to those stylistic developments that most suit the natural bent of
the language. It is not in the least likely that a truly great style can seriously oppose itself
to the basic form patterns of the language. It not only incorporates them, it builds on them.
The merit of such a style as W.H. Hudson's or George Moore's[199] is that it does with ease
and economy what the language is always trying to do. Carlylese, though individual and vigorous,
is yet not style; it is a Teutonic mannerism. Nor is the prose of Milton and his contemporaries
strictly English; it is semi-Latin done into magnificent English words.

[Footnote 199: Aside from individual peculiarities of diction, the selection and evaluation
of particular words as such.]

It is strange how long it has taken the European literatures to learn that style is not an
absolute, a something that is to be imposed on the language from Greek or Latin models, but
merely the language itself, running in its natural grooves, and with enough of an individual
accent to allow the artist's personality to be felt as a presence, not as an acrobat. We understand
more clearly now that what is effective and beautiful in one language is a vice in another.
Latin and Eskimo, with their highly inflected forms, lend themselves to an elaborately periodic
structure that would be boring in English. English allows, even demands, a looseness that would
be insipid in Chinese. And Chinese, with its unmodified words and rigid sequences, has a compactness
of phrase, a terse parallelism, and a silent suggestiveness that would be too tart, too mathematical,
for the English genius. While we cannot assimilate the luxurious periods of Latin nor the pointilliste
style of the Chinese classics, we can enter sympathetically into the spirit of these alien
techniques.

I believe that any English poet of to-day would be thankful for the concision that a Chinese
poetaster attains without effort. Here is an example:[200]

[Footnote 200: Not by any means a great poem, merely a bit of occasional verse written by a
young Chinese friend of mine when he left Shanghai for Canada.]

Wu-river[201] stream mouth evening sun sink, North look Liao-Tung,[202] not see home. Steam
whistle several noise, sky-earth boundless, Float float one reed out Middle-Kingdom.

[Footnote 201: The old name of the country about the mouth of the Yangtsze.]

[Footnote 202: A province of Manchuria.]

These twenty-eight syllables may be clumsily interpreted: "At the mouth of the Yangtsze River,
as the sun is about to sink, I look north toward Liao-Tung but do not see my home. The steam-whistle
shrills several times on the boundless expanse where meet sky and earth. The steamer, floating
gently like a hollow reed, sails out of the Middle Kingdom."[203] But we must not envy Chinese
its terseness unduly. Our more sprawling mode of expression is capable of its own beauties,
and the more compact luxuriance of Latin style has its loveliness too. There are almost as
many natural ideals of literary style as there are languages. Most of these are merely potential,
awaiting the hand of artists who will never come. And yet in the recorded texts of primitive
tradition and song there are many passages of unique vigor and beauty. The structure of the
language often forces an assemblage of concepts that impresses us as a stylistic discovery.
Single Algonkin words are like tiny imagist poems. We must be careful not to exaggerate a freshness
of content that is at least half due to our freshness of approach, but the possibility is indicated
none the less of utterly alien literary styles, each distinctive with its disclosure of the
search of the human spirit for beautiful form.

[Footnote 203: I.e., China.]

Probably nothing better illustrates the formal dependence of literature on language than the
prosodic aspect of poetry. Quantitative verse was entirely natural to the Greeks, not merely
because poetry grew up in connection with the chant and the dance,[204] but because alternations
of long and short syllables were keenly live facts in the daily economy of the language. The
tonal accents, which were only secondarily stress phenomena, helped to give the syllable its
quantitative individuality. When the Greek meters were carried over into Latin verse, there
was comparatively little strain, for Latin too was characterized by an acute awareness of quantitative
distinctions. However, the Latin accent was more markedly stressed than that of Greek. Probably,
therefore, the purely quantitative meters modeled after the Greek were felt as a shade more
artificial than in the language of their origin. The attempt to cast English verse into Latin
and Greek molds has never been successful. The dynamic basis of English is not quantity,[205]
but stress, the alternation of accented and unaccented syllables. This fact gives English verse
an entirely different slant and has determined the development of its poetic forms, is still
responsible for the evolution of new forms. Neither stress nor syllabic weight is a very keen
psychologic factor in the dynamics of French. The syllable has great inherent sonority and
does not fluctuate significantly as to quantity and stress. Quantitative or accentual metrics
would be as artificial in French as stress metrics in classical Greek or quantitative or purely
syllabic metrics in English. French prosody was compelled to develop on the basis of unit syllable-groups.
Assonance, later rhyme, could not but prove a welcome, an all but necessary, means of articulating
or sectioning the somewhat spineless flow of sonorous syllables. English was hospitable to
the French suggestion of rhyme, but did not seriously need it in its rhythmic economy. Hence
rhyme has always been strictly subordinated to stress as a somewhat decorative feature and
has been frequently dispensed with. It is no psychologic accident that rhyme came later into
English than in French and is leaving it sooner.[206] Chinese verse has developed along very
much the same lines as French verse. The syllable is an even more integral and sonorous unit
than in French, while quantity and stress are too uncertain to form the basis of a metric system.
Syllable-groups--so and so many syllables per rhythmic unit--and rhyme are therefore two of
the controlling factors in Chinese prosody. The third factor, the alternation of syllables
with level tone and syllables with inflected (rising or falling) tone, is peculiar to Chinese.

[Footnote 204: Poetry everywhere is inseparable in its origins from the singing voice and the
measure of the dance. Yet accentual and syllabic types of verse, rather than quantitative verse,
seem to be the prevailing norms.]

[Footnote 205: Quantitative distinctions exist as an objective fact. They have not the same
inner, psychological value that they had in Greek.]

[Footnote 206: Verhaeren was no slave to the Alexandrine, yet he remarked to Symons, à propos
of the translation of Les Aubes, that while he approved of the use of rhymeless verse in the
English version, he found it "meaningless" in French.]

To summarize, Latin and Greek verse depends on the principle of contrasting weights; English
verse, on the principle of contrasting stresses; French verse, on the principles of number
and echo; Chinese verse, on the principles of number, echo, and contrasting pitches. Each of
these rhythmic systems proceeds from the unconscious dynamic habit of the language, falling
from the lips of the folk. Study carefully the phonetic system of a language, above all its
dynamic features, and you can tell what kind of a verse it has developed--or, if history has
played pranks with its phychology, what kind of verse it should have developed and some day will.

Whatever be the sounds, accents, and forms of a language, however these lay hands on the shape
of its literature, there is a subtle law of compensations that gives the artist space. If he
is squeezed a bit here, he can swing a free arm there. And generally he has rope enough to
hang himself with, if he must. It is not strange that this should be so. Language is itself
the collective art of expression, a summary of thousands upon thousands of individual intuitions.
The individual goes lost in the collective creation, but his personal expression has left some
trace in a certain give and flexibility that are inherent in all collective works of the human
spirit. The language is ready, or can be quickly made ready, to define the artist's individuality.
If no literary artist appears, it is not essentially because the language is too weak an instrument,
it is because the culture of the people is not favorable to the growth of such personality
as seeks a truly individual verbal expression.

INDEX

Note. Italicized entries are names of languages or groups of languages.

A

Abbreviation of stem,
Accent, stress,
  as grammatical process,
  importance of,
  metrical value of
"Accent,"
"Adam's apple,"
Adjective,
Affixation,
Affixing languages,
African languages, pitch in,
Agglutination,
Agglutinative languages,
Agglutinative-fusional,
Agglutinative-isolating,
Algonkin languages (N. Amer.),
Alpine race,
Analogical leveling,
Analytic tendency,
Angles,
Anglo-Saxon,
Anglo-Saxon:
  culture,
  race,
Annamite (S.E. Asia),
Apache (N. Amer.),
Arabic,
Armenian,
Art,
  language as,
  transferability of,
Articulation:
  ease of,
  types of, drift toward,
Articulations:
  laryngeal,
  manner of consonantal,
  nasal,
  oral,
  place of consonantal,
  vocalic,
Aryan. See Indo-European.
Aspect,
Association of concepts and speech elements,
Associations fundamental to speech,
Athabaskan languages (N. Amer.),
Athabaskans, cultures of,
Attic dialect,
Attribution,
Auditory cycle in language,
Australian culture,
Avestan,

B

Bach,
Baltic race,
Bantu languages (Africa),
Bantus,
Basque (Pyrenees),
Bengali (India),
Berber. See Hamitic.
Bohemians,
Bontoc Igorot (Philippines),
Borrowing, morphological,
Borrowing, word,
  phonetic adaptation in,
  resistances to,
Breton,
Bronchial tubes,
Browning,
Buddhism, influence of,
Burmese,
Bushman (S. Africa),
Bushmen,

C

Cambodgian (S.E. Asia),
Carlyle,
Carrier (British Columbia),
Case,
  See Attribution; Object; Personal relations; Subject.
Case-system, history of,
Caucasus, languages of,
Celtic. See Celts.
Celtic languages,
Celts,
  Brythonic,
"Cerebral" articulations,
Chaucer, English of,
Chimariko (N. California),
Chinese:
  absence of affixes,
  analytic character,
  attribution,
  compounds,
  grammatical concepts illustrated,
  influence,
  "inner form,",
  pitch accent,
  radical words,
  relational use of material words,
  sounds,
  stress,
  structure,
  style,
  survivals, morphological,
  symbolism,
  verse,
  word duplication,
  word order,
Chinook (N. Amer.),
Chipewyan (N. Amer.),
  C. Indians,
Chopin,
Christianity, influence of,
Chukchi,
Classification:
  of concepts, rigid,
  of linguistic types,
  See Structure, linguistic.
"Clicks,"
Composition,
  absence of, in certain languages,
  types of,
  word order as related to,
Concepts,
Concepts, grammatical:
  analysis of, in sentence,
  classification of,
  concrete,
  concrete relational,
  concreteness in, varying degree of,
  derivational,
  derivational, abstract,
  essential,
  grouping of, non-logical,
  lack of expression of certain,
  pure relational,
  radical,
  redistribution of,
  relational,
  thinning-out of significance of,
  types of,
  typical categories of,
  See Structure, linguistic.
Concord,
Concrete concepts. See Concepts.
Conflict,
Consonantal change,
Consonants,
  combinations of,
Coördinate sentences,
Corean,
Croce, Benedetto,
Culture,
  language and,
  language as aspect of,
  language, race and,
  reflection of history of, in language,
Culture areas,

D

Danish,
Demonstrative ideas,
Dental articulations,
Derivational concepts. See Concepts.
Determinative structure,
Dialects:
  causes of,
  compromise between,
  distinctness of,
  drifts in, diverging,
  drifts in, parallel,
  splitting up of,
  unity of,
Diffusion, morphological,
Diphthongs,
Drift, linguistic,
  components of,
  determinants of, in English,
  direction of,
  direction of, illustrated in English,
  examples of general, in English,
  parallelisms in,
  speed of,
  See Phonetic Law; Phonetic processes.
Duplication of words,
Dutch,

E

Elements of speech,
Emotion, expression of:
  involuntary,
  linguistic,
English:
  agentive suffix,
  analogical leveling,
  analytic tendency,
  animate and inanimate,
  aspect,
  attribution,
  case, history of,
  compounds,
  concepts, grammatical, in sentence,
  concepts, passage of concrete into derivational,
  consonantal change,
  culture of speakers of,
  desire, expression of,
  diminutive suffix,
  drift,
  duplication, word,
  esthetic qualities,
  feeling-tone,
  form, word,
  French influence on,
  function and form,
  fusing and juxtaposing,
  gender,
  Greek influence on,
  influence of,
  influence on, morphological, lack of deep,
  interrogative words,
  invariable words, tendency to,
  infixing,
  Latin influence on,
  loan-words,
  modality,
  number,
  order, word,
  parts of speech,
  patterning, formal,
  personal relations,
  phonetic drifts, history of,
  phonetic leveling,
  phonetic pattern,
  plurality,
  race of speakers of,
  reference, definiteness of,
  relational words,
  relations, genetic,
  rhythm,
  sentence, analysis of,
  sentence, dependence of word on,
  sound-imitative words,
  sounds,
  stress and pitch,
  structure,
  survivals, morphological,
  symbolism,
  syntactic adhesions,
  syntactic values, transfer of,
  tense,
  verb, syntactic relations of,
  verse,
  vocalic change,
  word and element, analysis of,
English, Middle,
English people,
Eskimo,
Eskimos,
Ewe (Guinea coast, Africa),
Expiratory sounds,
"Explosives,"

F

Faucal position,
Feeling-tones of words,
Fijians,
Finnish,
Finns,
Flemish,
"Foot, feet" (English), history of,
Form, cultural,
  feeling of language for,
  "inner,"
Form, linguistic:
  conservatism of,
  differences of, mechanical origin of,
  elaboration of, reasons for,
  function and, independence of,
  grammatical concepts embodied in,
  grammatical processes embodying,
  permanence of different aspects of, relative,
  twofold consideration of,
  See Structure, linguistic.
Form-classes,
  See Gender.
Formal units of speech,
"Formlessness, inner,"
Fox (N. Amer.),
French:
  analytical tendency,
  esthetic qualities,
  gender,
  influence,
  order, word,
  plurality,
  sounds,
  sounds as words, single,
  stress,
  structure,
  tense forms,
  verse,
French, Norman,
French people,
Freud,
Fricatives,
Frisian,
Ful (Soudan),
Function, independence of form and,
Functional units of speech,
Fusion,
Fusional languages,
  See Fusion.
Fusional-agglutinative,
Fusional-isolating,
"Fuss, Füsse" (German), history of,

G

Gaelic,
Gender,
German:
  French influence on,
  grammatical
  concepts in sentence,
  Latin influence on,
  phonetic drifts, history of,
  plurality,
  relations,
  sound-imitative words,
  sounds,
  tense forms,
  "umlaut,"
  unanalyzable words, resistance to,
German, High,
German, Middle High,
German, Old High,
Germanic languages,
Germanic, West,
Germans,
Gesture languages,
Ginneken, Jac van,
Glottal cords,
  action of,
Glottal stop,
Gothic,
Grammar,
Grammatical element,
Grammatical concepts. See Concepts, grammatical.
Grammatical processes:
  classified by, languages,
  particular, development by each language of,
  types of,
  variety of, use in one language of,
Greek, dialectic history of,
Greek, classical:
  affixing,
  compounds,
  concord,
  infixing,
  influence,
  pitch accent,
  plurality,
  reduplicated perfects,
  stress,
  structure,
  synthetic character,
  verse,
Greek, modern,

H

Haida (British Columbia), Hamitic languages (N. Africa), Hausa (Soudan), Hebrew, Heine, Hesitation,
History, linguistic, Hokan languages (N. Amer.), Hottentot (S. Africa), Hudson, W.H., Humming,
Hupa (N. California), Hupa Indians,

I

Icelandic, Old,
India, languages of,
Indians, American, languages of,
  See also Algonkin; Athabaskan; Chimariko; Chinook; Eskimo;
      Fox; Haida; Hokan; Hupa; Iroquois; Karok; Kwakiutl;
      Nahuatl; Nass; Navaho; Nootka; Ojibwa; Paiute;
      Sahaptin; Salinan; Shasta; Siouan; Sioux; Takelma;
      Tlingit; Tsimshian; Washo; Yana; Yokuts; Yurok.
Indo-Chinese languages,
Indo-European,
Indo-Iranian languages,
Infixes,
Inflection. See Inflective languages.
Inflective languages,
Influence:
  cultural, reflected in language,
  morphological, of alien language,
  phonetic, of alien language,
Inspiratory sounds,
Interjections,
Irish,
Irish,
Iroquois (N. Amer.),
Isolating languages,
Italian,
"Its," history of,

J

Japanese, Jutes, Juxtaposing. See Agglutination.

K

Karok (N. California),
  K. Indians,
Khmer. See Cambodgian.
Knowledge, source of, as grammatical category,
Koine,
Kwakiutl (British Columbia),

L

Labial trills,
Language:
  associations in,
  associations underlying elements of,
  auditory cycle in,
  concepts expressed in,
  a cultural function,
  definition of,
  diversity of,
  elements of,
  emotion expressed in,
  feeling-tones in,
  grammatical concepts of,
  grammatical processes of,
  historical aspects of,
  imitations of sounds, not evolved from,
  influences on, exotic,
  interjections, not evolved from,
  literature and,
  modifications and transfers of typical form of,
  an "overlaid" function,
  psycho-physical basis of,
  race, culture and,
  simplification of experience in,
  sounds of,
  structure of,
  thought and,
  universality of,
  variability of,
  volition expressed in,
Larynx,
Lateral sounds,
Latin:
  attribution,
  concord,
  infixing,
  influence of,
  objective -m,
  order of words,
  plurality,
  prefixes and suffixes,
  reduplicated perfects,
  relational concepts expressed,
  sentence-word,
  sound as word in, single,
  structure,
  style,
  suffixing character,
  syntactic nature of sentence,
  synthetic character,
  verse,
  word and element in, analysis of,
Lettish,
Leveling, phonetic,
  See Analogical leveling.
Lips,
  action of,
Literature:
  compensations in, formal,
  language and,
  levels in, linguistic,
  medium of, language as,
  science and,
Literature, determinants of:
  linguistic,
  metrical,
  morphological,
  phonetic,
Lithuanian,
Localism,
Localization of speech,
Loucheux (N. Amer.),
  L. Indians,
Lungs,
Luther, German of,

M

Malay,
  M. race,
Malayan,
Malayo-Polynesian languages,
Manchu,
Manx,
"Maus, Mäuse" (German), history of,
Mediterranean race,
Melanesian languages,
Meter. See Verse.
Milton,
Mixed-relational languages,
  complex,
  simple,
Modality,
Mon-Khmer (S.E. Asia),
Moore, George,
Morphological features, diffusion of,
Morphology. See Structure, linguistic.
"Mouse, mice" (English), history of,
Munda languages (E. India),
Murmuring,
Mutation, vocalic,

N

Nahuatl (Mexico),
Nasal sounds,
"Nasal twang,"
Nasalized stops,
Nass (British Columbia),
Nationality,
Navaho (Arizona, New Mexico),
  N. Indians,
Nietzsche,
Nootka (Vancouver Id.),
Nose,
  action of,
Noun,
Nouns, classification of,
Number,
  See Plurality.

O

Object,
  See Personal relations.
Ojibwa (N, Amer.),
Onomatopoetic theory of origin of speech,
Oral sounds,
Order, word,
  composition as related to,
  fixed, English tendency,
  sentence molded by,
  significance of, fundamental,
Organs of speech,
  action of,

P

Paiute (N. Amer.),
Palate,
  action of soft,
  articulations of,
Pali (India),
Papuan languages,
Papuans,
Parts of speech,
Pattern:
  formal,
  phonetic,
Persian,
Person,
Personal relations,
Phonetic adaptation,
Phonetic diffusion,
Phonetic law:
  basis of,
  direction of,
  examples of,
  influence of, on morphology,
  influence of morphology on,
  regularity of,
  significance of,
  spread of, slow,
  See Leveling, phonetic; Pattern, phonetic.
Phonetic processes,
  form caused by, differences of,
  parallel drifts in,
Pitch, grammatical use of,
  metrical use of,
  production of,
  significant differences in,
Plains Indians, gesture language of,
"Plattdeutsch,"
Plurality:
  classification of concept of, variable,
  a concrete relational category,
  a derivational or radical concept,
  expression of, multiple,
  See Number.
Poles,
Polynesian,
Polynesians,
Polysynthetic languages,
Portuguese,
Predicate,
Prefixes,
Prefixing languages,
Preposition,
Psycho-physical aspect of speech,
Pure-relational languages,
  complex,
  simple,

Q

Qualifying concepts. See Concepts, derivational.
Quality:
  of speech sounds,
  of individual's voice,
Quantity of speech sounds,

R

Race,
  language and, lack of correspondence between,
  language and, theoretical relation between,
  language as correlated with, English,
  language, culture and, correspondence between,
  language, culture and, independence of,
Radical concepts. See Concepts.
Radical element,
Radical word,
"Reading from the lips,"
Reduplication,
Reference, definite and indefinite,
Repetition of stem,
  See Reduplication.
Repression of impulse,
Rhyme,
Rolled consonants,
Romance languages,
Root,
Roumanian,
Rounded vowels,
Russian,

S

Sahaptin languages (N. Amer.),
Salinan (S.W. California),
Sanskrit (India),
Sarcee Indians,
Saxon:
  Low,
  Old,
  Upper,
Saxons,
Scandinavian,
  See Danish; Icelandic; Swedish.
Scandinavians,
Scotch,
Scotch, Lowland,
Semitic languages,
Sentence,
  binding words into, methods of,
  stress in, influence of,
  word-order in,
Sequence. See Order of words.
Shakespeare:
  art of,
  English of,
Shasta (N. California),
Shilh (Morocco),
Shilluk (Nile headwaters),
Siamese,
Singing,
Siouan languages (N. Amer.),
Sioux (Dakota),
Slavic languages,
Slavs,
Somali (E. Africa),
Soudanese languages,
Sound-imitative words,
Sounds of speech,
  adjustments involved in, muscular,
  adjustments involved in certain, inhibition of,
  basic importance of,
  classification of,
  combinations of,
  conditioned appearance of,
  dynamics of,
  illusory feelings in regard to,
  "inner" or "ideal" system of,
  place in phonetic pattern of,
  production of,
  values of, psychological,
  variability of,
Spanish,
Speech. See Language.
Spirants,
Splitting of sounds,
Stem,
Stock, linguistic,
Stopped consonants (or stops),
Stress. See Accent.
Structure, linguistic,
  conservatism of,
  differences of,
  intuitional forms of,
Structure, linguistic, types of:
  classification of, by character of concepts,
  by degree of fusion,
  by degree of synthesis,
  by formal processes,
  from threefold standpoint,
  into "formal" and "formless,"
  classifying, difficulties in,
  examples of,
  mixed,
  reality of,
  validity of conceptual, historical test of,
Style,
Subject,
  See Personal relations.
Subject of discourse,
Suffixes,
Suffixing,
Suffixing languages,
Survivals, morphological,
Swedish,
Swinburne,
Swiss, French,
Syllabifying,
Symbolic languages,
Symbolic processes,
Symbolic-fusional,
Symbolic-isolating,
Symons,
Syntactic adhesions,
Syntactic relations:
  primary methods of expressing,
  transfer of values in,
  See Concepts, relational; Concord; Order, word; Personal
      relations; Sentence.
Synthetic tendency,

T

Takelma (S.W. Oregon),
Teeth,
  articulations of,
Telegraph code,
Temperament,
Tense,
Teutonic race. See Baltic race.
Thinking, types of,
Thought, relation of language to,
Throat,
  articulations of,
Tibetan,
Time. See Tense.
Tlingit (S. Alaska),
  T. Indians,
Tongue,
  action of,
Transfer, types of linguistic,
Trills,
Tsimshian (British Columbia),
  See Nass.
Turkish,
Types, linguistic, change of,
  See Structure, linguistic.

U

Ugro-Finnic,
"Umlaut." See Mutation, vocalic.
United States:
  culture in,
  race in,
Ural-Altaic languages,
Uvula,

V

Values:
  "hesitation,"
  morphologic,
  phonetic,
  variability in, of components of drift,
Variations, linguistic:
  dialect,
  historical,
  individual,
Verb,
  syntactic relations expressed in,
Verhaeren,
Verse:
  accentual,
  linguistic determinants of,
  quantitative,
  syllabic,
Vocalic change,
  See Mutation, vocalic.
Voice, production of,
Voiced sounds,
Voiceless:
  laterals,
  nasals,
  sounds,
  trills,
  vowels,
"Voicelessness," production of,
Volition expressed in speech,
Vowels,

W

Walking, a biological function,
Washo (Nevada),
Welsh,
Westermann, D.,
Whisper,
Whitman,
"Whom," use and drift of,
Word,
  definition of,
  syntactic origin of complex,
  "twilight" type of,
  types of, formal,
Written language,

Y

Yana (N. California),
Yiddish,
Yokuts (S. California),
Yurok (N.W. California),
  Y. Indians,

Z

Zaconic dialect of Greek,