IN KINGS' BYWAYS

BY STANLEY J. WEYMAN AUTHOR OF "A GENTLEMAN OF FRANCE," "THE CASTLE INN," "COUNT HANNIBAL," ETC.

LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 91 AND 93 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 1902

COPYRIGHT, 1902, BY STANLEY J. WEYMAN

All rights reserved.

       *       *       *       *       *

BY STANLEY J. WEYMAN

THE HOUSE OF THE WOLF. A Romance. With Frontispiece and Vignette. Crown 8vo, cloth, $1.25.

THE STORY OF FRANCIS CLUDDE. A Romance. With four Illustrations. Crown 8vo, $1.25.

A GENTLEMAN OF FRANCE. Being the Memoirs of Gaston de Bonne, Sieur de Marsac. With Frontispiece
and Vignette. Crown 8vo, cloth, $1.25.

UNDER THE RED ROBE. With twelve full-page Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth, $1.25.

MY LADY ROTHA. A Romance of the Thirty Years' War. With eight Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth,
$1.25.

FROM THE MEMOIRS OF A MINISTER OF FRANCE. With thirty-six Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth, $1.25.

SHREWSBURY. A Romance. With twenty-four Illustrations. Crown 8vo, $1.50.

THE RED COCKADE. A Novel. With 48 illustrations by R. Caton Woodville. Crown 8vo, $1.50.

THE CASTLE INN. A Novel. With six full-page Illustrations by Walter Appleton Clarke. Crown
8vo, $1.50.

SOPHIA. A Romance. With twelve full-page Illustrations. Crown 8vo, $1.50.

New York: LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS

PART I

                                                           PAGE

FLORE,                                                        1

CRILLON'S STAKE,                                             51

FOR THE CAUSE,                                               86

THE KING'S STRATAGEM,                                       131

THE HOUSE ON THE WALL,                                      152

HUNT THE OWLER,                                             177

THE TWO PAGES,                                              194

PART II

THE DIARY OF A STATESMAN

    EPISODE OF THE FOWL IN THE POT,                         213

    EPISODE OF THE BOXWOOD FIRE,                            238

    EPISODE OF THE SNOWBALL,                                266

PART III

KING TERROR

    A DAUGHTER OF THE GIRONDE,                              295

    IN THE NAME OF THE LAW,                                 329

PART I

IN KINGS' BYWAYS

FLORE

(1643)

It was about a month after my marriage--and third clerk to the most noble the Bishop of Beauvais,
and even admitted on occasions to write in his presence and prepare his minutes, who should
marry if I might not?--it was about a month after my marriage, I say, that the thunderbolt,
to which I have referred, fell and shattered my fortunes. I rose one morning--they were firing
guns for the victory of Rocroy, I remember, so that it must have been eight weeks or more after
the death of the late king, and the glorious rising of the Sun of France--and who as happy
as I? A summer morning, Monsieur, and bright, and I had all I wished. The river as it sparkled
and rippled against the piers of the Pont Neuf far below, the wet roofs that twinkled under
our garret window, were not more brilliant than my lord the Bishop's fortunes: and as is the
squirrel so is the tail. Of a certainty, I was happy that morning. I thought of the little
hut under the pine wood at Gabas in Béarn, where I was born, and of my father cobbling by the
unglazed window, his nightcap on his bald head, and his face plaistered where the sherd had
slipped; and I puffed out my cheeks to think that I had climbed so high. High? How high might
not a man climb, who had married the daughter of the Queen's under-porter, and had sometimes
the ear of my lord, the Queen's minister--my lord of Beauvais in whom all men saw the coming
master of France! my lord whose stately presence beamed on a world still chilled by the dead
hand of Richelieu!

But that morning, that very morning, I was to learn that who climbs may fall. I went below
at the usual hour; at the usual hour Monseigneur left, attended, for the Council; presently
all the house was in an uproar. My lord had returned, and called for Prosper. I fancied even
then that I caught something ominous in the sound of my name as it passed from lip to lip;
and nervously I made all haste to the chamber. But fast as I went I did not go fast enough;
one thrust me on this side, another on that. The steward cursed me as he handed me on to the
head-clerk, who stormed at me; while the secretary waited for me at the door, and, seizing
me by the neck, ran me into the room. "In, rascal, in!" he growled in my ear, "and I hope your
skin may pay for it!"

Naturally by this time I was quaking: and Monseigneur's looks finished me. He stood in the
middle of the chamber, his plump handsome face pale and sullen. And as he scowled at me, "Yes!"
he said curtly, "that is the fellow. What does he say?"

"Speak!" the head-clerk cried, seizing me by the ear and twisting it until I fell on my knees.
"Imbecile! But it is likely enough he did it on purpose."

"Ay, and was bribed!" said the secretary.

"He should be hung up," the steward cried, truculently, "before he does further mischief! And
if my lord will give the word----"

"Silence!" the Bishop said, with a dark glance at me. "What does he plead?"

The head-clerk twisted my ear until I screamed. "Ingrate!" he cried. "Do you hear his Grace
speak to you? Answer him aloud!"

"My lord," I cried piteously, "I do not know of what I am accused. And besides, I have done
nothing! Nothing!"

"Nothing!" half a dozen echoed. "Nothing!" the head-clerk added brutally. "Nothing, and you
add a cipher to the census of Paris! Nothing, and your lying pen led my lord to state the population
to be five millions instead of five hundred thousand! Nothing, and you sent his Grace's Highness
to the Council to be corrected by low clerks and people, and made a laughing-stock for the
Cardinal, and----"

"Silence!" said the Bishop, fiercely. "Enough! Take him away, and----"

"Hang him!" cried the steward.

"No, fool, but have him to the courtyard, and let the grooms flog him through the gates. And
have a care you," he continued, addressing me, "that I do not see your face again or it will
be worse for you!"

I flung myself down and would have appealed against the sentence, but the Bishop, who had suffered
at the Council and whose ears still burned, was pitiless. Before I could utter three words
a dozen officious hands plucked me up and thrust me to the door. Outside worse things awaited
me. A shower of kicks and cuffs and blows fell upon me; vainly struggling and shrieking, and
seeking still to gain his lordship's ear, I was hustled along the passage to the courtyard,
and there dragged amid jeers and laughter to the fountain, and brutally flung in. When I scrambled
out, they thrust me back again and again: until, almost dead with cold and rage, I was at last
permitted to escape, only to be hunted round the yard with stirrup-leathers that cut like knives,
and drew a scream at every stroke. I doubled like a hare; more than once I knocked half a dozen
down; but I was fast growing exhausted, when some one more prudent or less cruel than his fellows,
opened the gates before me, and I darted into the street.

I was sobbing with rage and pain, dripping, ragged, and barefoot; for some saving rogue had
prudently drawn off my shoes in the scuffle. It was a wonder that I was not fallen upon and
chased through the streets. Fortunately in the street opposite my lord's gates opened the mouth
of a little alley. I plunged into it, and in the first dark corner dropped exhausted and lay
sobbing and weeping on a heap of refuse. I who had risen so happily a few hours before! I who
had climbed so high! I who had a wife new-married in my garret at home!

I do not know how long I lay there, now cursing the jealousy of the clerks, who would have
flayed me to save themselves, and now the cruelty of the grooms who thought it fine sport to
whip a scholar. But the first tempest of passion had spent itself, when a woman--not the first
whom my plight had attracted, but the others had merely shrugged their shoulders and passed
on--paused before me. "What a white skin!" she cried, making great eyes at me; and they had
cut my clothes so that I was half bare to her. And then, "You are not a street-prowler. How
come you here, my lad, in that guise?"

I was silent, and pretended to be sullen, being ashamed to meet her gaze.

She stood a moment staring at me curiously. Then, "Better go home," she said, shaking her head
sedately, "or those who have robbed you may end by worse. I doubt not this is what comes of
raking and night-work. Go home, my lad," she repeated, and went on her way.

Home! The word raised new thoughts, new hopes, new passions. I scrambled to my feet. I had
a home--the Bishop might deprive me of it: but I had also a wife, from whom God only could
separate me. I felt a sudden fire run through me at the thought of her, and of all I had suffered
since I left her arms: and with new boldness I turned, and sore and aching as I was, I stumbled
back to the place of my shame.

The steward and two or three of his underlings were standing in the gateway, and saw me approach;
and began to jeer. The high grey front of Monseigneur's hotel, three sides of a square, towered
up behind them; the steward in the opening sprawled his feet apart and set his hands to his
stout sides, and jeered at me. "Ha! ha! Here is the lame leper from the Cour des Miracles!"
he cried. "Have a care or he will give you the itch!"

"Good sir, the swill-tub is open," cried another, mocking me. "Help yourself!"

A third spat at me and bade me begone for a pig. The passers--there were always a knot of gazers
opposite my lord of Beauvais' palace in those days, when we had the Queen's ear and bade fair
to succeed Richelieu--stayed to stare.

"I want my goods," I said, trembling.

"Your goods!" the steward answered, swelling out his brawny chest, and smiling at me over it.
"Your goods, indeed! Begone, and be thankful you have escaped so well."

"Give me my things--from my room," I said stubbornly; and I tried to enter. "They are my own!"

He moved sideways so as to block the passage. "Your goods? They are Monseigneur's," he said.

"My wife, then!"

He winked, the great beast. "Your wife?" he said. "Well, true; she is not Monseigneur's. But
she will do for me." And with a coarse laugh he winked again at the crowd.

At that the pent-up rage which I had so long stemmed broke out. He stood a head taller than
I, and a foot wider; but with a scream I sprang at his throat, and by the very surprise of
the attack and his unwieldiness, I got him down and beat his face with my fists. His fellows,
as soon as they recovered from their astonishment, tore me off, showing me no mercy. But by
that time I had so marked him that the blood poured down his fat cheeks. He scrambled to his
feet, panting and furious, his oaths tripping over one another.

"To the Châtelet with him!" he cried, spitting out a tooth and staring at me through the mud
on his face. "He shall swing for this! He tried to break in. I call you to witness he tried
to break in!"

"Ay, to the Châtelet! To the Châtelet!" cried the crowd, siding with the stronger party. He
was my lord of Beauvais' steward; I was a gutter-snipe and dangerous. A dozen hands held me
tightly; yet not so tightly, but that, a coach passing at that moment and driving us all to
the wall, I managed by a jerk--I was desperate by this time, and savage as a wild-cat--to snatch
myself loose. In a second I was speeding down the Rue Bons Enfants with the hue and cry behind me.

I have said, I was desperate. In an hour the world was changed for me. In an hour I had broken
with every tradition of safe and modest and clerkly life; and from a sleek scribe was become
a ragged outlaw flying through the streets. I saw the gallows, I felt the lash sink like molten
lead into the quivering back, still bleeding from the stirrup-leathers: I forgot all but the
danger. I lived only in my feet, and with them made superhuman efforts. Fortunately the light
was failing, and in the dusk I distanced the pack by a dozen yards. I passed the corner of
the Palais Royal so swiftly that the Queen's Guards, though they ran out at the alarm, were
too late to intercept me. Thence I turned instinctively to the left, and with the cry of pursuit
in my ears strained towards the old bridge, intending to cross to the Cité, where I knew all
the lanes and byways. But the bridge was alarmed, the Châtelet seemed to yawn for me--they
were just lighting the brazier in front of the gloomy pile--and doubling back, while the air
roared with shouts of warning and cries of "Stop thief! Stop thief!"--I evaded my pursuers,
and sped up the narrow Rue Troussevache, with the hue and cry hard on my heels.

I had no plan now, no aim; only terror added wings to my feet. The end of that street gained
I darted blindly down another, and yet another; with straining chest, and legs that began to
fail, and always in my ears the yells that rose round me as fresh pursuers joined in the chase.
Still I kept ahead, I was even gaining; with night thickening, I might hope to escape, if I
could baffle those who from time to time--but in a half-hearted way, not knowing if I were
armed--made an attempt to stop me or trip me up.

Suddenly turning a corner--I had gained a quiet part where blind walls lined an alley--I discovered
a man running before me. At the same instant the posse in pursuit quickened their pace in a
last effort; I, in answer, put forth my last strength, and in a dozen paces I came up with
the man. He turned to me, our eyes met as we ran abreast; desperate myself, I read equal terror
in his look, and before I could think what it might mean, he bent himself sideways as he ran,
and with a singular movement flung a parcel he carried into my arms. Then wheeling abruptly
he plunged into a side-lane on his left.

It was done in a moment. Instinctively I caught the burden: but the impetus with which he had
passed it to me, sent me reeling to the right, and the lane being narrow, I fell against the
wall before I could steady myself. As luck would have it, that which should have destroyed
me, was my salvation; I struck the wall where a door broke it, the door, lightly latched, flew
open under the impact, I fell inwards. I alighted, in darkness, on my hands and knees, heard
the stifled yelp of a dog, and in a second, though I could see nothing, I was up and had the
door closed behind me.

Then I listened. Panting and breathless, I heard the hunt go raving through the lane, and the
noise die in the distance; until only the beating of my heart broke the close silence of the
darkness in which I stood. When this had lasted a minute or two, I began to peer and wonder
where I was; and remembering the dog I had heard, I moved stealthily to find the latch, and
escape. As I did so, the bundle, to which through all I had clung--instinctively, for I had
not thought of it--moved in my arms.

I almost dropped it; then I held it from me with a swift movement of repulsion. It stirred
again, it was warm. In a moment the truth flashed upon me. It was a child!

Burning hot as I had been before, the sweat rose on me at the thought. For I saw again the
man's face of terror, and I guessed that he had stolen the child, and I feared the worst. He
had mistaken the rabble hooting at my heels for the avengers of blood, and had been only too
thankful to rid himself of the damning fact, and escape.

And now I had it, and had as much, or more, to fear. For an instant the impulse to lay the
parcel down, and glide out, and so be clear of it, was strong upon me. And that I think is
what the ordinary clerk, being no hero, nor bred like a soldier to risk his life, would have
done. But for one thing, I was desperate. I knew not, after this, whither to go or where to
save myself. For another thing my clerk's wits were already busy, showing me how with luck
I might use the occasion and avoid the risk; how with luck I might discover the parents and
without suffering for the theft, restore the child. Beyond that I saw an opening vista of pardon,
employment and reward.

Suddenly, the dog whined again, close to me; and that decided me. I had found the latch by
this time, and warily I drew the door open. In a moment I was in the lane, looking up and down.
I saw nothing to alarm me; darkness had completely fallen, no one was moving, the neighbourhood
seemed to be of the quietest. I made up my mind to take the bold course: to return at all hazards
to the Rue St. Honoré, seek my father-in-law at the gates of the Palais Royal--where he had
the night turn--and throw the child and myself on his protection.

Without doubt it was the wisest course I could adopt. In those days the streets of Paris, even
in the district of the Louvre and Palais Royal, were ill-lighted; a network of lanes and dark
courts encroached on the most fashionable parts, and favoured secret access to them, and I
foresaw no great difficulty, short of the moment when I must appear in the lighted lodge and
exhibit my rags. But my evil star was still above the horizon. I had scarcely reached the end
of the lane; I was still hesitating there, uncertain which way to turn for the shortest course,
when a babel of voices broke on my ear, lights swept round a distant corner, and I found myself
threatened by a new danger. I did not wait to consider. These people, with their torches and
weapons, might have naught to do with me. But my nerves were shaken, the streets of Paris were
full of terrors, every corner had a gallows for me--and I turned and, fleeing back the way
I had come, I made a hurried effort to find the house which had sheltered me before. Failing,
in one or two trials, and seeing that the lights were steadily coming on that way, and that
in a moment I must be discovered, I sprang across the way, and dived into the side-lane by
which the child-stealer had vanished.

I had not taken ten steps before some object, unseen in the darkness, tripped me up, and I
fell headlong on the stones. In the fall my burden rolled from my arms; instantly it was snatched
up by a dark figure, which rose as by magic beside me, and was gone into the gloom almost as
quickly. I got up gasping and limping, and flung a curse after the man; but the lights already
shone on the mouth of the lane in which I stood, and I had no time to lose if I would not be
detected. I set off running down the passage, turned to the left at the end, and along a second
lane, thence passed into another and a wider road; nor did I stop until I had left all signs
and sounds of pursuit far behind me.

The place in which I came to a stand at last--too weak to run any farther--was a piece of waste
land, in the northern suburbs of the city. High up on the left I could discern a light or two,
piercing the gloom of the sky; and I knew they shone from the wind-mills of Montmartre. In
every other direction lay darkness; desolation swept by the night wind; silence broken only
by the dismal howling of far-off watch-dogs. I might have been ten miles from Paris: even as
I was a thousand miles from the man who had risen so happily that morning.

For very misery I sobbed aloud. I did not know exactly where I was; nor had I known, had I
the strength to return. Excitement had carried me far, but suddenly I felt the weakness of
exhaustion, and sick and aching I craved only a hole in which to lie down and die. Fortunately
at this moment I met the wind, and caught the scent of new-mown hay: stumbling forward a few
steps with such strength as remained, I made out a low building looming through the night.
I staggered to it; I discovered that it was a shed; and entering with my hands extended, I
felt the hay under my feet. With a sob of thankfulness I took two steps forward and sank down;
but instead of the soft couch I expected, I fell on the angular body of a man, who with a savage
curse rose and flung me off.

This at another time would have scared me to death; but I was so far gone in wretchedness that
I felt no fear and little surprise. I rolled away without a word, and curling myself up at
a distance of a few feet from my fellow-lodger, fell in a minute fast asleep.

When I awoke, daylight, though the sun was not up, was beginning to creep into the shed. I
turned, every bone in my body ached: the weals of the stirrup-leathers smarted and burned.
I remembered yesterday's doings, and groaned. Presently the hay beside me rustled, and over
the shoulder of the mass against which I lay I made out the face of a man, peering curiously
at me. I had not yet broken with every habit of suspicion, nor could in a moment recollect
that I had nothing but rags to lose; and I gazed back spellbound. In silence which neither
broke by so much as a movement we waited gazing into one another's eyes; while the light in
the low-roofed hovel grew and grew, and minute by minute brought out more clearly the other's
features.

At length I knew him, and almost at the same moment he recognized me; uttering an oath of rage,
he rose up as if to spring at my throat. But either because I did not recoil--being too deep-set
in the hay to move--or for some other reason, he only shook his claw-like fingers at me, and
held off. "Where is it, you dog?" he cried, finding his voice with an effort. "Speak, or I
will have your throat slit. Speak; do you hear? What have you done with it?"

He was the man who had passed the child to me! I watched him heedfully, and after a moment's
hesitation I told him that it had been taken from me, and I told him when and where.

"And you don't know the man who took it?" he screamed.

"Not from Adam," I said. "It was dark."

In his disappointment and rage, at receiving the answer, I thought again that he would fall
upon me: but he only choked and swore, and then stood scowling, the picture of despair. Until,
some new thought pricking him, he threw up his arms and cried out afresh. "Oh, mon dieu, what
a fool I was!" he moaned. "What a craven I was! I had a fortune in my hands, and, fool that
I was, I threw it away!"

I thought bitterly of my own case--I was not much afraid of him now, for I began to think that
I understood him. "So had I, yesterday morning," I said, "a fortune. You are in no worse case
than others."

"Yesterday morning!" he exclaimed. "No, last night. Then, if you like, you had. But yesterday
morning? Fortune and you, scarecrow? Go hang yourself."

He looked gloomily at me for a moment with his arms crossed on his chest, and his face darkly
set. Then "Who are you?" he asked.

I told him. When he learned that the rabble that had alarmed him, had in fact been pursuing
me--so that his fright had been groundless--he broke into fresh execrations: and these so violent
that I began to feel a sort of contempt for him, and even plucked up spirit to tell him that
look as disdainfully as he might at me, he seemed to be in no better case.

He looked at me askance at that. "Ay, as it turns out," he said grimly. "In worse case, if
you please. But see the difference, idiot. You are a poor fool beaten from pillar to post;
at all men's mercy, and naught to get by it; while I played for a great stake. I have lost,
it is true! I have lost!" he continued, his voice rising almost to a yell, "and we are both
in the gutter. But if I had won--if I had won, man----"

He did not finish the sentence but flung himself down on his face in the hay, and bit and tore
it in his passion. A moment I viewed him with contempt, and thought him a poor creature for
a villain. Then the skirt of his coat, curling over as he grovelled and writhed, disclosed
something that turned my thoughts into another channel. Crushed under his leather girdle was
a little cape, or a garment of that kind, of velvet so lustrous that it shone in the dark place
where I saw it, as the eyes shine in a toad. Nor it only: before he rolled over and hid it
again, I espied embroidered on one corner of the velvet a stiff gold crown!

It was with difficulty that I repressed a cry. Cold, damp, aching, I felt the heat run through
me like wine. A crown! A little purple cape! And taken beyond doubt from the infant he had
stolen last night! Then last night--last night I had carried the King! I had carried the King
of France in my arms.

I no longer found it hard to understand the man's terror of yesterday; or his grief and despair
of this morning. He had indeed played for a great stake; he had risked torture and the wheel;
death in its most horrible form. And that for which he had risked so much he had lost!--lost!

I looked at him with new eyes, and a sort of wonder: and had scarcely time to compose my face,
when, the paroxysm of his fury spent, he rose, and looking at me askance, to see how I took
his actions, he asked me sullenly whither I was going.

"To Monseigneur's," I said cunningly: had I answered, "To the Palais Royal," he would have
suspected me.

"To the Bishop's?"

"Where else?"

"To be beaten again?" he sneered.

I said nothing to that, but asked him whither he was going.

"God knows," he said. "God knows!"

But when I went out, he accompanied me; and we slunk silently, like the pair of night-birds
we were, through lanes and alleys until we were fairly in town again. By that time the sun
was up and the market people were beginning to enter the city. Here and there eyes took curious
note of my disorder: and thinking of the company I was in, I trembled, and wondered that the
alarm was not abroad and the bells proclaiming us from every tower. I was more than content,
therefore, when my companion at the back of the Temple halted before a small door in a blind
wall. Over against it stood another small door in the opposite wall.

"Do you stay here?" I said.

He swore churlishly. "What is that to you?" he said, looking up and down. "Go your way, idiot."

I was glad to affect a like ill-humour, shrugged my shoulders, and lounged on without looking
back. But my brain was on fire. The King! The four-year-old King! What was I to do? To whom
to go with my knowledge? And then--even then, while I paused hesitating, I heard steps running
behind me, and I turned to find him at my elbow. His face was pale, but his eyes burned with
eagerness, and his whole demeanour was changed.

"Stay!" he cried panting; and then seizing me peremptorily by the breast of my shirt, "the
man who tripped you up, fellow--you did not see him?"

"It was dark," I answered curtly. "I told you I did not know him from Adam."

"But had he--" he gasped, "you heard him run away--was he lame?"

I could not repress an exclamation. "Par dieu!" I said. "Yes, I had forgotten that. I think
he was. I remember I heard his foot go cluck--clack, cluck--clack as he ran."

His face became burning red, and he staggered. If ever man was near dying from blood in his
head, it was that man at that moment! But after a while he drew a long breath, and got the
better of it, nodded to me, and turned away. I marked, however--for I stood a moment, watching--that
he did not go back to the door at which I had left him: but after looking round once and espying
me standing, he took a lane on the right and disappeared.

But I knew or thought that I knew all now; and the moment he was out of sight, I set off towards
the Palais Royal like a hound let loose, heeding neither those against whom I bumped in the
straiter ways, nor the danger I ran of recognition, nor the miserable aspect I wore in my rags.
I forgot all, save my news, even my own wretchedness; and never halted or stayed to take breath
until I crept panting into the doorway of the lodge at the Palais, and met my father-in-law's
look of disgust and astonishment.

He was just off the night turn, and met me on the threshold. I saw beyond him the grinning
faces of the under-porters. But I had that to tell which still upheld me. I threw up my hands.

"I know where they are!" I cried breathlessly. "I can take you to them!"

He gazed at me, dumb for the moment with surprise and rage; and doubtless a less reputable
son-in-law than I appeared, it would have been hard to find in all Paris. Then his passion
found vent. "Pig!" he cried. "Jackal! Gutter-bird! Begone! I have heard about you! Begone!
or I will have you flayed!"

"But I know where they are! I know where they have him!" I protested.

His face underwent a startling change. He stepped forward with a nimbleness wonderful in one
of his bulk, and he caught me by the collar. "What," he said, "have you seen the dog?"

"The dog?" I cried. "No, but I have seen the King! I have held him in my arms! I know where he is."

He released me suddenly, and fell back a pace, looking at me so oddly that I paused. "Say it
again," he said slowly. "You have held the----"

"The King! The King!" I cried impatiently. "In these arms. Last night! I know where they have
him, or at least--where the robbers are."

His double chin fell, and his fat face lost colour. "Poor devil!" he said, staring at me like
one fascinated. "They have took his senses from him."

"But--" I cried, advancing, "are you not going to do anything?"

He waved me off, and retreating a step, crossed himself. "Jacques!" he said, speaking to one
of the porters, but without taking his eyes off me, "move him off! Move him off; do you hear,
man? He is not safe!"

"But I tell you," I cried fiercely, "they have stolen the King! They have stolen his Majesty,
and I--have held him in my arms. And I know----"

"There, there, be calm," he answered. "Be calm, my lad. They have stolen the Queen's dog, that
is true. But have it your own way if you like, only go. Go from here, and quickly, or it will
be the worse for you; for here comes Monseigneur the Bishop to wait on her Majesty, and if
he sees you, you will suffer worse things. There, make way, make way!" he continued, turning
from me to the staring crowd that had assembled. "Way, for Monseigneur the Bishop of Beauvais!
Make way!"

As he spoke, the Bishop in his great coach turned heavily out of the Rue St. Honoré, and the
crowd attending him eddied about the Palace entrance. I was hustled and swept out of the way,
and fortunately escaping notice, found myself a few minutes later crouching in a lane that
runs beside the church of St. Jacques. I was wolfing a crust of bread, which one of the men
with whom I had often talked in the lodge had thrust into my hand. I ate it with tears: in
all Paris, that day, was no more miserable outcast. What had become of my little wife I knew
not; and I dared not show myself at the Bishop's to ask. My father-in-law, I feared, was hardened
against me, and at the best thought me mad. I had no longer home or friend, and--this at the
moment cut most sharply--the gorgeous hopes in which I had indulged a few moments before were
as last year's snow! The King was not lost!

