Illuminated
                             Manuscripts

                            John Bradley

                            BRACKEN BOOKS
                               LONDON

CONTENTS

BOOK I

CHAPTER I

INTRODUCTORY

What is meant by art?--The art faculty--How artists may be compared--The aim of illumination--Distinction
between illumination and miniature--Definition of illumination--The first miniature painter--Origin
of the term "miniature"--Ovid's allusion to his little book.

CHAPTER II

VELLUM AND OTHER MATERIALS

Difference between vellum and parchment--Names of different preparations--The kinds of vellum
most prized for illuminated books--The "parcheminerie" of the Abbey of Cluny--Origin of the
term "parchment"--Papyrus.

CHAPTER III

WRITING

Its different styles--Origin of Western alphabets--Various forms of letters--Capitals, uncials,
etc.--Texts used in Western Europe--Forms of ancient writings--The roll, or volume--The codex--Tablets--Diptychs,
etc.--The square book--How different sizes of books were produced.

CHAPTER IV

GREEK AND ROMAN ILLUMINATION

The first miniature painter--The Vatican Vergils--Methods of painting--Origin of Christian
art--The Vienna Genesis--The Dioscorides--The Byzantine Revival.

CHAPTER V

BYZANTINE ILLUMINATION

The rebuilding of the city of Byzantium the beginning of Byzantine art--Justinian's fondness
for building and splendour--Description of Paul the Silentiary--Sumptuous garments--The Gospel-book
of Hormisdas--Characteristics of Byzantine work--Comparative scarcity of examples--Rigidity
of Byzantine rules of art--Periods of Byzantine art--Examples--Monotony and lifelessness of
the style.

CHAPTER VI

CELTIC ILLUMINATION

Early liturgical books reflect the ecclesiastical art of their time--This feature a continuous
characteristic of illumination down to the latest times--Elements of Celtic ornament--Gospels
of St. Chad--Durham Gospels--Contrast of Celtic and Byzantine--St. Columba--Book of Kells--Details
of its decoration.

CHAPTER VII

CELTIC ILLUMINATION--continued

The Iona Gospels--Contrast with Roman and Byzantine--Details--Treatment of animal forms--Colour
schemes--The Gospel-book of St. Columbanus--That of Mael Brith Mac Durnan--The Lindisfarne
Gospels--Cumdachs--Other book-shrines.

CHAPTER VIII

SEMI-BARBARIC ILLUMINATION

Visigothic--Merovingian--Lombardic--Extinction of classic art--Splendid reign of Dagobert--St.
Eloy of Noyon--The Library of Laon--Natural History of Isidore of Seville--Elements of contemporary
art--Details of ornament--Symbolism--Luxeuil and Monte Cassino--Sacramentary of Gellone--"Prudentius"--"Orosius"--Value
of the Sacramentary of Gellone.

CHAPTER IX

DEVELOPMENT OF THE INITIAL

The initial and initial paragraph the main object of decoration in Celtic illumination--Study
of the letter L as an example--The I of "In principio" and the B of "Beatus Vir".

CHAPTER X

FIRST ENGLISH STYLES

Transition from Iona to Lindisfarne--Influence of Frankish art--The "Opus Anglicum"--The Winchester
school and its characteristics--Whence obtained--Method of painting--Examples--Where found
and described.

CHAPTER XI

CAROLINGIAN ILLUMINATION

Why so-called--Works to be consulted--The Library of St. Gall--Rise and progress of Carolingian
art--Account of various MSS.--Feature of the style--Gospels of St. Sernin--The Ada-Codex--Centres
of production--Other splendid examples--The Alcuin Bible--The Gospel of St. Médard of Soissons.

CHAPTER XII

MONASTIC ILLUMINATION

Introductory--Monasteries and their work from the sixth to the ninth century--The claustral
schools--Alcuin--Warnefrid and Theodulf--Clerics and monastics--The Golden Age of monasticism--The
Order of St. Benedict--Cistercian houses--Other Orders--Progress of writing in Carolingian
times--Division of labour.

CHAPTER XIII

MONASTIC ILLUMINATION--continued

The copyist--Gratuitous labour--Last words of copyists--Disputes between Cluny and Citeaux--The
Abbey of Cluny: its grandeur and influences--Use of gold and purple vellum--The more influential
abbeys and their work in France, Germany, and the Netherlands.

CHAPTER XIV

OTHONIAN ILLUMINATION

Departure from Carolingian--Bird and serpent--Common use of dracontine forms in letter-ornament--Influence
of metal-work on the forms of scroll-ornament--The vine-stem and its developments--Introduction
of Greek taste and fashion into Germany--Cistercian illumination--The Othonian period--Influence
of women as patronesses and practitioners--German princesses--The Empress Adelheid of Burgundy--The
Empress Theophano--Henry II. and the Empress Cunegunda--Bamberg--Examples of Othonian art.

CHAPTER XV

FRANCONIAN ILLUMINATION

The later Saxon schools--Bernward of Hildesheim--Tuotilo and Hartmut of St. Gallen--Portrait
of Henry II. in MS. 40 at Munich--Netherlandish and other work compared--Alleged deterioration
of work under the Franconian Emperors not true--Bad character of the eleventh century as to
art--Example to the contrary.

CHAPTER XVI

ARTISTIC EDUCATION IN THE CLOISTER

The "Manual"--Its discovery--Its origin and contents--Didron's translation--The "Compendium"
of Theophilus--Its contents--English version by Hendrie--Benedictine and Cistercian illumination--How
they differ--Character of monastic architects and artists.

CHAPTER XVII

THE RISE OF GOTHIC ILLUMINATION

Germany the chief power in Europe in the twelfth century--Rise of Italian influence--The Emmeram
MSS.--Coronation of Henry II.--The Apocalypse--The "Hortus Deliciarum"--Romanesque--MS. of
Henry the Lion--The Niedermünster Gospels--Description of the MS.--Rise of Gothic--Uncertainty
of its origin--The spirit of the age.

BOOK II

CHAPTER I

THE GOLDEN AGE OF ILLUMINATION

The Gothic spirit--A "zeitgeist" not the invention of a single artist nor of a single country--The
thirteenth century the beginning of the new style--Contrast between North and South, between
East and West, marked in the character of artistic leaf-work--Gradual development of Gothic
foliage--The bud of the thirteenth century, the leaf of the fourteenth, and the flower of the
fifteenth--The Freemasons--Illumination transferred from the monastery to the lay workshop--The
Psalter of St. Louis--Characteristics of French Gothic illumination--Rise of the miniature
as a distinct feature--Guilds--Lay artists.

CHAPTER II

RISE OF NATIONAL STYLES

The fourteenth century the true Golden Age of Gothic illumination--France the cradle of other
national styles--Netherlandish, Italian, German, etc.--Distinction of schools--Difficulty of
assigning the provenance of MSS.--The reason for it--MS. in Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge--The
Padua Missal--Artists' names--Whence obtained.

CHAPTER III

FRENCH ILLUMINATION FROM THE THIRTEENTH CENTURY TO THE RENAISSANCE

Ivy-leaf and chequered backgrounds--Occasional introduction of plain burnished gold--Reign
of Charles VI. of France--The Dukes of Orleans, Berry, and Burgundy; their prodigality and
fine taste for MSS.--Christine de Pisan and her works--Description of her "Mutation of Fortune"
in the Paris Library--The "Roman de la Rose" and "Cité des Dames"--Details of the French style
of illumination--Burgundian MSS., Harl. 4431--Roy. 15 E. 6--The Talbot Romances--Gradual approach
to Flemish on the one hand and Italian on the other.

CHAPTER IV

ENGLISH ILLUMINATION FROM THE TENTH TO THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY

Organisation of the monastic scriptoria--Professional outsiders: lay artists--The whole sometimes
the work of the same practitioner--The Winchester Abbeys of St. Swithun's and Hyde--Their vicissitudes--St.
Alban's--Westminster--Royal MS. 2 A 22--Description of style--The Tenison Psalter--Features
of this period--The Arundel Psalter--Hunting and shooting scenes, and games--Characteristic
pictures, grotesques, and caricatures--Queen Mary's Psalter--Rapid changes under Richard II.--Royal
MS. 2 E. 9--Their cause.

CHAPTER V

THE SOURCES OF ENGLISH FIFTEENTH-CENTURY ILLUMINATION

Attributed to the Netherlands--Not altogether French--The home of Anne of Bohemia, Richard
II.'s Queen--Court of Charles IV. at Prag--Bohemian Art--John of Luxembourg, King of Bohemia--The
Golden Bull of Charles IV.--Marriage of Richard II.--The transformation of English work owing
to this marriage and the arrival of Bohemian artists in England--Influence of Queen Anne on
English Art and Literature--Depression caused by her death--Examination of Roy. MS. 1 E. 9
and 2 A. 18--The Grandison Hours--Other MSS.--Introduction of Flemish work by Edward IV.

CHAPTER VI

ITALIAN ILLUMINATION

Barbaric character of Italian illumination in the twelfth century--Ravenna and Pavia the earliest
centres of revival--The "Exultet"--La Cava and Monte Cassino--The writers of early Italian
MSS. not Italians--In the early fourteenth century the art is French--Peculiarities of Italian
foliages--The Law Books--Poems of Convenevole da Prato, the tutor of Petrarch--Celebrated patrons--The
Laon Boethius--The Decretals, Institutes, etc.--"Decretum Gratiani," other collections and
MSS.--Statuts du Saint Esprit--Method of painting--Don Silvestro--The Rationale of Durandus--Nicolas
of Bologna, etc.--Triumphs of Petrarch--Books at San Marco, Florence--The Brera Graduals at
Milan--Other Italian collections--Examples of different localities in the British Museum--Places
where the best work was done--Fine Neapolitan MS. in the British Museum--The white-vine style
superseded by the classical renaissance.

CHAPTER VII

GERMAN ILLUMINATION FROM THE THIRTEENTH TO THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY

Frederick II., Stupor Mundi, and his MS. on hunting--The Sicilian school mainly Saracenic,
but a mixture of Greek, Arabic, and Latin tastes--The Franconian Emperors at Bamberg--Charles
of Anjou--The House of Luxembourg at Prag--MSS. in the University Library--The Collegium Carolinum
of the Emperor Charles IV.--MSS. at Vienna--The Wenzel Bible--The Weltchronik of Rudolf v.
Ems at Stuttgard--Wilhelm v. Oranse at Vienna--The Golden Bull--Various schools--Hildesheimer
Prayer-book at Berlin--The Nuremberg school--The Glockendons--The Brethren of the Pen.

CHAPTER VIII

NETHERLANDISH ILLUMINATION

What is meant by the Netherlands--Early realism and study of nature--Combination of symbolism
with imitation--Anachronism in design--The value of the pictorial methods of the old illuminators--The
oldest Netherlandish MS.--Harlinda and Renilda--The nunnery at Maas-Eyck--Description of the
MS.--Thomas à Kempis--The school of Zwolle--Character of the work--The use of green landscape
backgrounds--The Dukes of Burgundy--Netherlandish artists--No miniatures of the Van Eycks or
Memling known to exist--Schools of Bruges, Ghent, Liége, etc.--Brussels Library--Splendid Netherlandish
MSS. at Vienna--Gerard David and the Grimani Breviary--British Museum--"Romance of the Rose"--"Isabella"
Breviary--Grisailles.

CHAPTER IX

THE FRENCH RENAISSANCE

Communication with Italy--Renaissance not sudden--Origin of the schools of France and Burgundy--Touraine
and its art--Fouquet--Brentano MSS.--"Versailles Livy"--Munich "Boccaccio," etc.--Perréal and
Bourdichon--"Hours of Anne of Brittany"--Poyet--The school of Fontainebleau--Stained glass--Jean
Cousin--Gouffier "Heures"--British Museum Offices of Francis I.--Dinteville Offices--Paris
"Heures de Montmorency", "Heures de Dinteville," etc.

CHAPTER X

SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE ILLUMINATION

Late period of Spanish illumination--Isidore of Seville--Archives at Madrid--Barcelona--Toledo--Madrid--Choir-books
of the Escorial--Philip II.--Illuminators of the choir-books--The size and beauty of the volumes--Fray
Andrés de Leon and other artists--Italian influence--Giovanni Battista Scorza of Genoa--Antonio
de Holanda, well-known Portuguese miniaturist in sixteenth century--His son Francesco--The
choir-books at Belem--French invasion--Missal of Gonçalvez--Sandoval Genealogies--Portuguese
Genealogies in British Museum--The Stowe Missal of John III.

CHAPTER XI

ILLUMINATION SINCE THE INVENTION OF PRINTING

The invention of printing--Its very slight affect on illuminating--Preference by rich patrons
for written books--Work produced in various cities in the sixteenth century--Examples in German,
Italian, and other cities, and in various public libraries up to the present time.

The desire for decoration is probably as old as the human race. Nature, of course, is the source
of beauty, and this natural beauty affects something within us which has or is the faculty
of reproducing the cause of its emotion in a material form. Whether the reproduction be such
as to appeal to the eye or the ear depends on the cast of the faculty. In a mild or elementary
form, probably both casts of faculty exist in every animated creature, and especially in the
human being.

Art being the intelligent representation of that quality of beauty which appeals to any particular
observer, whoever exercises the faculty of such representation is an artist.

Greatness or otherwise is simply the measure of the faculty, for in Nature herself there is
no restriction. There is always enough of beauty in Nature to fill the mightiest capacity of
human genius. Artists, therefore, are measured by comparison with each other in reference to
the fraction of art which they attempt to reproduce.

The art of illumination does not aim at more than the gratification of those who take pleasure
in books. Its highest ambition is to make books beautiful.

To some persons, perhaps, all ordinary books are ugly and distasteful. Probably they are so
to the average schoolboy. Hence the laudable endeavour among publishers of school-books to
make them attractive. The desire that books should be made attractive is of great antiquity.
How far back in the world's history we should have to go to get in front of it we cannot venture
to reckon. The methods of making books attractive are numerous and varied. That to which we
shall confine our attention is a rather special one. Both its processes and its results are
peculiar. Mere pictures or pretty ornamental letters in sweet colours and elegant drawing do
not constitute illumination, though they do form essential contributions towards it; and, indeed,
in the sixteenth century the clever practitioners who wished, in bright colours, to awaken
up the old woodcuts used to call themselves illuminists, and the old German books which taught
how the work should be done were called Illuminir bücher. Illuminists were not illuminators.

In the twelfth century when, as far as we know, the word illuminator was first applied to one
who practised the art of book decoration, it meant one who "lighted up" the page of the book
with bright colours and burnished gold.

These processes suggest the definition of the art. Perfect illumination must contain both colours
and metals. To this extent it is in perfect unison with the other mediæval art of heraldry;
it might almost be called a twin-sister.

As an art it is much older than its name. We find something very like it even among the ancient
Egyptians, for in the Louvre at Paris is a papyrus containing paintings of funeral ceremonies,
executed in bright colours and touched in its high lights with pencilled gold. But after this
for many centuries there remains no record of the existence of any such art until just before
the Christian era. Then, indeed, we have mention of a lady artist who painted a number of miniature
portraits for the great biographical work of the learned Varro. We must carefully observe,
however, that there is a distinction between illumination and mere miniature painting. Sometimes
it is true that miniatures--as e.g. those of the early Byzantine artists, and afterwards those
of Western Europe--were finished with touches of gold to represent the lights. This brought
them into the category of illuminations, for while miniatures may be executed without the use
of gold or silver, illuminations may not. There are thousands of miniatures that are not illuminations.

At the period when illuminating was at its best the miniature, in its modern sense of a little
picture, was only just beginning to appear as a noticeable feature, and the gold was as freely
applied to it as to the penmanship or the ornament. But such is not the case with miniature
painting generally.

Lala of Cyzicus, the lady artist just referred to, lived in the time of Augustus Cæsar. She
has the honour of being the first miniaturist on record, and is said to have produced excellent
portraits "in little," especially those of ladies, on both vellum and ivory. Her own portrait,
representing her engaged in painting a statuette, is still to be seen among the precious frescoes
preserved in the museum at Naples.

The term "miniature," now applied to this class of work, has been frequently explained. It
is derived from the Latin word minium, or red paint, two pigments being anciently known by
this name--one the sulphide of mercury, now known also as "vermilion," the other a lead oxide,
now called "red lead." It is the latter which is generally understood as the minium of the
illuminators, though both were used in manuscript work. The red paint was employed to mark
the initial letters or sections of the MS. Its connection with portraiture and other pictorial
subjects on a small scale is entirely owing to its accidental confusion by French writers with
their own word mignon, and so with the Latin minus. In classical times, among the Romans, the
"miniator" was simply a person who applied the minium, and had nothing to do with pictures
or portraits at all, but with the writing. That the rubrication of titles, however, was somewhat
of a luxury may be gathered from the complaint of Ovid when issuing the humble edition of his
verses from his lonely exile of Tomi:--

         "Parve (nec invideo) sine me liber ibis in urbem:
          Hei mihi quo domino non licet ire tuo. 1, Eleg. 1.

[1] "Go, little book, nor do I forbid,--go without me into that city where, alas! I may enter
never more.... Nor shall whortleberries adorn thee with their crimson juice; that colour is
not suitable for lamentations. Nor shall thy title be marked with minium, nor thy leaf scented
with cedar-oil. Nor shalt thou bear horns of ivory or ebony upon thy front."

There are many allusions in these pathetic lines which would bear annotation, but space forbids.
The one point is the use of minium.

As vellum is constantly spoken of in connection with illumination and illuminated books, it
becomes necessary to explain what it is, and why it was used instead of paper.

We often find writers, when referring to ancient documents, making use of the words parchment
and vellum as if the terms were synonymous; but this is not strictly correct. It is true that
both are prepared from skins, but the skins are different. They are similar, but not the same,
nor, indeed, are they interchangeable. In point of fact, the skins of almost all the well-known
domestic animals, and even of fishes, have been used for the purpose of making a material for
writing upon. Specifically among the skins so prepared were the following: the ordinary lambskin,
called "aignellinus"[2]; that prepared from stillborn lambs, called "virgin parchment."

[2] Strictly agnellinus.

From sheepskins was produced ordinary "parchment," and also a sort of leather called "basane"
or "cordovan." Vellum was produced from calfskin; that of the stillborn calf being called "uterine
vellum," and considered the finest and thinnest. It is often spoken of in connection with the
exquisitely written Bibles of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries as of the highest value.

Besides these were the prepared skins of oxen, pigs, and asses; but these were chiefly used
for bindings, though occasionally for leaves of account and other books liable to rough usage.

Before the tenth century the vellum used for MSS. is highly polished, and very white and fine.
Afterwards it becomes thick and rough, especially on the hair side. In the examination of certain
MSS. the distinction of hair side and smooth side is of importance in counting the gatherings
so as to determine the completeness, or otherwise, of a given volume. Towards the period of
the Renaissance, however, the vellum gradually regains its better qualities.

Thus it may be seen that the difference between vellum and parchment is not a mere difference
of thickness; for while, in general, vellum is stouter than parchment, there is some vellum
which is thinner than some parchment. Not only are they made from different kinds of skin,
but the vellum used for illuminated books was, and still is, prepared with greater care than
the parchment used for ordinary school or college treatises, or legal documents.

The fabrication of both parchment and vellum in the Middle Ages was quite as important a matter
as that of paper at the present time, and certain monastic establishments had a special reputation
for the excellence of their manufacture. Thus the "parcheminerie," as it was called, of the
Abbey of Cluny, in France, was quite celebrated in the twelfth century. One reason probably
for this celebrity was the fact that Cluny had more than three hundred churches, colleges,
and monasteries amongst its dependencies, and therefore had ample opportunities for obtaining
the best materials and learning the best methods in use throughout literary Christendom. As
to the name "vellum," it is directly referable to the familiar Latin term for the hide or pelt
of the sheep or other animal, but specially applied, as we have said, to that of the calf,
the writing material thus prepared being termed charta vitulina--in French vélin, and in monastic
Latin and English vellum.

The name "parchment" had quite a different kind of origin. It is an old story, found in Pliny's
Natural History (bk. xiii. ch. 70), that the ancient use or revival of the use of parchment
was due to the determination of King Eumenes II. of Mysia or Pergamos to form a library which
should rival those of Alexandria, but that when he applied to Egypt for papyrus, the writing
materials then in use, Ptolemy Epiphanes jealously refused to permit its exportation. In this
difficulty Eumenes, we are told, had recourse to the preparation of sheepskins, and that from
the place of its invention it was called charta pergamena.

Pliny and his authority, however, were both wrong in point of history. Eumenes, who reigned
from about 197 to 158 B.C., was not the inventor, but the restorer of its use (see Herodotus,
v. 58). It was called in Greek μεμβράνα (2 Tim. iv. 13).

We may mention, by the way, that neither vellum nor parchment are by any means the oldest materials
known. Far older, and more generally used in Italy, Greece, and Egypt, was the material which
has given us the name of our commonest writing material of to-day, viz. paper. The name of
this older material was papyrus (Gr. πάπυρος and χάρτης). As a writing material it was known
in Egypt from remote antiquity. It was plentiful in Rome in the time of the Cæsars, and it
continued, both in Grecian and Roman Egypt, to be the ordinary material employed down to the
middle of the tenth century of our era. In Europe, too, it continued in common use long after
vellum had been adopted for books, though more especially for letters and accounts. St. Jerome
mentions vellum as an alternative material in case papyrus should fail (Ep. vii.), and St.
Augustine (Ep. xv.) apologises for using vellum instead of papyrus.[3] Papyrus was also used
in the early Middle Ages. Examples, made up into book-form--i.e. in leaves, with sometimes
a few vellum leaves among them for stability--are still extant. Among such are some seven or
eight books in various European libraries, the best known being the Homilies of St. Avitus
at Paris, the Antiquities of Josephus at Milan, and the Isidore at St. Gall.

[3] Thompson, Greek and Latin Palæography, p. 33.

And in the Papal Chancery papyrus appears to have been used down to a late date in preference
to vellum.[4]

[4] Thompson, op. cit., p. 34; Aug. Molinier, Les Manuscrits, Prélim.; Lecoy de la Marche,
Les MSS. et la Miniature, p. 24.

In France papyrus was in common use in the sixth and seventh centuries. Merovingian documents
dating from 625 to 692 are still preserved in Paris.

Seeing that illumination grew originally out of the decoration of the initial letters, our
next point to notice is the penmanship. The alphabet which we now use is that formerly used
by the Romans, who borrowed it from the Greeks, who in turn obtained it (or their modification
of it) from the Phœnicians, who, lastly it is said, constructed it from that of the Egyptians.
Of course, in these repeated transfers the letters themselves, as well as the order of them,
underwent considerable alterations. With these we have here no concern. Our alphabet, i.e.
the Roman and its variations, is quite sufficient for our story. In order to show as clearly
as may be the varieties of lettering and the progress of penmanship from classical times to
the revival of the old Roman, letters in the fifteenth century, we offer the following synopsis,
which classifies and indicates the development of the different hands used by writers and illuminators
of MSS. It is constructed on the information given in Wailly's large work on Palæography, and
in Dr. de Grey Birch's book on the Utrecht Psalter. The former work affords excellent facsimiles,
which, together with those given in the plates published by the Palæographical Society, will
give the student the clearest possible ideas respecting these ancient handwritings.

Omitting the cursive or correspondence hand, the letters used by the Romans were of four kinds--capitals
(usually made angular to be cut in stone), rustic, uncials, and minuscules.

The rounded capitals were intended to be used in penwork. Uncials differ from capitals only
in the letters A, D, E, G, M, Q, T, V, for the sake of ease in writing. It is said that this
class of letters was first called uncials from being made an inch (uncia) high, but this is
mere tradition; the word is first used on Jerome's preface to the Book of Job. No uncials have
ever been found measuring more than five-eighths of an inch in height.

For the assistance of such students as may wish for examples we must refer to certain MSS.
and reproductions in which the foregoing hands are exemplified.

CIRCA FOURTH CENTURY.

Capitals, yet not pure.
  The Vatican Vergil, No. 3225, throughout (Birch, p. 14; Silvestre's
    Paléographie universelle, pl. 74).

With regard to the relative antiquity of capitals and uncials, M. de Wailly observes: "The
titles in pure uncials, but less than the text itself, give an excellent index to the highest
antiquity. This is verified in MSS. 152, 2630, 107 of the Bibl. du Roi, etc. MSS. of the seventh
or eighth century, whether on uncial or demi-uncial, or any other letter, are never constant
in noting the title at the top of the page, or the kind of writing will vary, or if uncials
be constantly used, the titles will not be smaller than the text. These variations become still
greater in the following centuries. The ornaments which relieve the titles of each page commence
about the eighth century" (i. p. 49 C).

Capitals and Uncials.
  The Homilies of St. Augustine (Silvestre, pl. 74).
  Augustine Opera, Paris Lib., 11641 (Palæograph. Soc., pl. 42, 43).

Rustic.
  The Second Vatican Vergil, No. 3867 (Wailly, pl. 2), called the
    "Codex Romanus."

SIXTH CENTURY.

Rustic and Uncial.
  The Montamiata Bible (Birch, 35; Wailly, pl. 2, 4).

Rustic and Minuscule.
  The Cambridge Gospels (Westwood, Palæograph. Sacra Pictoria, pl. 45).

Uncials.
  Gospels in Brit. Mus. Add. MS. 5463.
  Paris Lib., Gregory of Tours (Silvestre, pl. 86).
  Vienna Imp. Lib., Livy (Silvestre, pl. 75).
  Brit. Mus., Harl. 1775 (Palæograph. Soc., pl. 16).

SEVENTH CENTURY.

Uncials and Minuscule.
  The St. Chad's Gospels in library of Lichfield Cathedral (Palæograph.
    Soc., pl. 20, 21, 35).

NINTH CENTURY.

Capitals and Minuscules.
  Paris Lib., Bible of Charles the Bald.

There is scarcely anything more difficult to judge than the true age of square capital MSS.
or of pure uncials. Even the rustic capitals, like the first Vatican Vergil, No. 3225, are
extremely rare. The letters in this MS. are about three-sixteenths of an inch high.

TEXTS IN USE IN WESTERN EUROPE BEFORE THE AGE OF CHARLEMAGNE.

Lombardic. The national hand of Italy. Founded on the old Roman cursive, it does not attain
to any great beauty until the tenth or eleventh century. Examples may be seen in Palæographical
Society, pl. 95, and in the excellent lithographs published by the monks of Monte Cassino (Paleografia
artistica di Monte Cassino, Longobardo-Cassinese, tav. xxxiv., etc.). A very fine example occurs
in pl. xv., dated 1087-88. Its characteristic letters are a, e, g, t.

Visigothic. The national hand of Spain. Also founded on the old Roman cursive. It becomes an
established hand in the eighth century, and lasts until the twelfth. Examples occur in Ewald
and Lœwe, Exempla Scripturæ Visigoticæ, Heidelberg, 1883. It was at first very rude and illegible,
but afterwards became even handsome. A fine example exists in the British Museum (Palæograph.
Soc., pl. 48). Its characteristic letters are g, s, t.

Merovingian. The national hand of France. A hand made up chiefly of loops and angles in a cramped,
irregular way. Its derivation the same as the preceding. In the seventh century it is all but
illegible. In the eighth it is much better, and almost easy to read.

Celtic. The national hand of Ireland. It is founded on the demi-uncial Roman, borrowed as to
type from MSS. taken to Ireland by missionaries. It is bold, clear, and often beautiful, lending
itself to some of the most astonishing feats of penmanship ever produced.

Such are the chief varieties of writing found in the MSS. produced before the great revival
of the arts and learning which took place during the reign of Charles the Great (Karl der Grosse),
known familiarly as Charlemagne.

Wattenbach (Schriftwesen, etc.) says that uncials date from the second century A.D. From examples
still extant of the fifth and following centuries, it seems that while the Roman capitals were
not uncommon, in Celtic MSS. the form generally adopted was the uncial. It was the form also
usually chosen for ornamentation or imitation in those Visigothic, Merovingian, or Lombardic
MSS., which made such remarkable use of fishes, birds, beasts, and plants for the construction
of initial letters and principal words, of which we see so many examples in the elaborately
illustrated Catalogue of the library at Laon by Ed. Fleury, and in that of Cambray, by M. Durieux.
Most of these pre-Carolingian designs are barbarous in the extreme, dreadfully clumsy in execution,
but they evince considerable ingenuity and a strong predilection for symbolism.

Before concluding this chapter perhaps something should be said concerning the shape of books,
though this is a matter somewhat outside the scope of our proper subject. Yet, as the brief
digression will afford an opportunity for the explanation of certain terms used in MSS., we
will avail ourselves of it.

The ancient form of writing upon skins and papyrus was that of the roll. The Hebrew, Arabic,
or Greek terms for this do not concern us, but its Latin name was volumen, "something rolled,"
and from this we obtain our word volume. Such words as "explicit liber primus" etc., which
we often find in early MSS., refer to this roll-form; explicare in Latin meaning to unroll;
hence, apropos of a chapter or book, to finish. When transferred to the square form, or codex,
it simply means, "here ends book first," etc.

The modern book shape first came into use with the beginning of the Christian era under the
name of codex. Here it will be necessary to explain that caudex, codex, in Latin, meant a block
of wood, and had its humorous by-senses among the Roman dramatists, as the word block has among
ourselves, such as blockhead.[5] So caudicalis provincia was a jocular expression for the occupation
of wood-splitting.

[5] Terence, Heautont., 5. 1, 4.

Whether the word had originally any connection with cauda, "a tail," is not here worth considering,
as if so, it had long lost the connection; and when used to mean a book, had only the sense
of a board, or a number of boards from two upwards, fastened together by means of rings passed
through holes made in their edges.

Probably the first use was as plain smooth boards only; examples of such are still in existence.
Then of boards thinly covered with, usually, black wax. A pair of such tablets, wax-covered,
was a common form of a Roman pocket-or memorandum-book. It was also used as a means of conveying
messages, the reply being returned on the same tablets. The method was to write on the wax
with a fine-pointed instrument called a style, the reverse end of which was flattened. When
the person to whom the message was sent had read it, he (or she) simply flattened out the writing,
smoothed it level, and then wrote the reply on the same wax. School-children did their exercises
on these tablets, housewives and stewards kept their accounts on them, and on them literary
people jotted down their ideas as they do now in their pocket-books. Extant examples of these
early books, or tablets, are fairly numerous, and may be seen in most public museums. A codex
of two leaves was called a diptych; of three, a triptych, etc. The codex form was used for
legal documents, wills, conveyances, and general correspondence. Hence the Roman postman was
called a tabellarius, the tablets containing correspondence being tied with a thread or ribbon
and sealed. This custom of sending letters on tablets survived for some centuries after Augustan
times. Wattenbach gives several interesting instances of their mediæval use.[6]

[6] Schriftwesen, 48.

Of course when the tablet gave place to the codex of skin or paper, the papyrus was too brittle
and fragile for practical utility, and examples, as we have seen, were very rare; but vellum
soon became popular. We may mention, in passing, that the papyrus roll gave us a word still
in use in diplomatics, the word protocol. The first sheet of a papyrus roll was called the
πρωτόκολλον. It usually contained the name of place and date of manufacture of the papyrus,
and was stamped or marked with the name of the government officer who had charge of the department.

In the vellum codex, though each leaf might have only one fold, and thus technically be considered
as a folio, the actual shape of it was nearly square, hence its name of codex quadratus. When
other forms of books, such as octavo, duo-decimo, etc., came into use, it was in consequence
of the increased number of foldings. The gatherings, originally quaternions or quires, became
different, and those who undertake to examine MSS. with respect to their completeness have
to be familiar with the various methods.[7] This kind of knowledge, however, though useful,
is by no means essential to the story of illumination.

It has been already stated that the earliest recorded miniature painter was a lady named Lala
of Cyzicus in the days of Augustus Cæsar, days when Cyzicus was to Rome what Brussels is to
Paris, or Brighton to London. All her work, as far as we know, has perished. It was portraiture
on ivory, probably much the same as we see in the miniature portraiture of the present day.

But this was not illumination. The kind of painting employed in the two Vatican Vergils was,
however, something approaching it. These two precious volumes contain relics of Pagan art,
but it is the very art which was the basis and prototype of so-called Christian art of those
earliest examples found in the catacombs and in the first liturgical books of Christian times.

The more ancient of the two Vergils referred to, No. 3225, which Labarte (2nd ed., ii. 158)
thinks to be a century older than the other, Sir M.D. Wyatt considered as containing "some
of the best and most interesting specimens of ancient painting which have come down to us.
The design is free and the colours applied with good effect, the whole presenting classical
art in the period of decline, but before its final debasement." Whereas in the second MS.,
No. 3867, the style, though still classical, is greatly debased, and probably, in addition
to this, by no means among the best work of its time. It is described as rough, inaccurate,
and harsh. The method is of the kind called gouache, i.e. the colours are applied thickly in
successive couches or layers, probably by means of white of egg diluted with fig-tree sap,
and finished in the high lights with touches of gold (Palæograph. Soc., pl. 114, 117). This
finishing with touches of gold brings the work within the range of illumination. There is,
indeed, wanting the additional ornamentation of the initial letter which would bring it fully
into the class of mediæval work; but, such as it is, it may fairly claim to be suggestive of
the future art. Indeed, certain points in the MS. 3225--viz. that Zeus is always red and Venus
fair, that certain costumes and colours of drapery are specially appropriated--would lead to
the supposition that even then there existed a code of rules like those of the Byzantine Guide,
and that therefore the art owed its origin to the Greeks.

Between this MS. and the first known Christian book work there may have been many that have
now perished, and which, had they remained, would have marked the transition more gradually.
But even as they stand there is no appreciable difference between the earliest monuments of
Christian art and those of the period which preceded them. Nor shall we find any break, any
distinct start on new principles. It is one continuous series of processes--the gradual change
of methods growing out of experience alone--not owing to any change of religion or the adoption
of a new set of theological opinions. Of course we shall find that for a very long time the
preponderance of illuminated MSS. will be towards liturgical works; and we shall also find
that where the contents of the MS. are the same the subjects taken for illustration are also
selected according to some fixed and well-known set of rules. We shall see the explanation
of this by-and-by.

The first example of a Christian illuminated MS. is one containing portions of the Book of
Genesis in Greek preserved in the Imperial Library at Vienna. It is a mere fragment, only twenty-six
leaves of purple vellum--that is, bearing the imperial stain--yet it contains eighty-eight
pictures. We call them miniatures, but we must remember that by "miniator" a Roman bookseller
would not understand what we call a miniaturist; and, as we have said, the word "illuminator"
was not then known.

This Vienna Genesis is not introduced among illuminated books, therefore, because of its miniatures--pictures
we prefer to call them--but because the text is nearly all written in gold and silver letters.
The pictures, according to the Greek manner, are placed in little square frames. They were
executed, no doubt, by a professional painter, not without technical skill and not hampered
by monastic restrictions. The symbolism which underlies all early art is here shown in the
allegorical figures (such as we shall meet with again in later Byzantine work), which are introduced
to interpret the scene. We see the same thing in the catacombs. Being a relic of great importance,
this Genesis codex has been often described and examples given of its pictures. Of course,
in a little manual like the present we cannot pretend to exhibit the literature of our subject.
We can scarcely do more than refer the reader to a single source. In this case perhaps we cannot
do better than send the inquirer to the Victoria and Albert Museum at South Kensington.

If we select another MS. of this early period it is the one which may be said to be the oldest
existing MS. in which the ornamentation is worthy of as much notice as the pictures. We refer
to the Collection of Treatises by Greek physicians on plants, fishing, the chase, and kindred
matters in the same library as the Genesis fragment. It goes under the name of "Dioscorides,"
who was one of the authors, and dates from the beginning of the sixth century. The Genesis
is a century older. Engravings from the Dioscorides are given in Labarte's Arts industriels,
etc., pl. 78, and in Louandre's Arts somptuaires, etc., i., pl. 2, 3.

Enough has been said on these earlier centuries to show quite clearly the character of the
art known as Early Christian. It is simply a continuation of such art as had existed from classical
times, and had, in fact, passed from the Greeks, who were artists, to the Romans, who were
rarely better than imitators. It is carried on to the period when it again is nourished by
Greek ideas in the Later Empire, and once more attains distinction in the splendid revival
of art under the Emperor Justinian.

NOTE.--Julius Capitolinus, in his Life of the exquisite Emperor Maximin, junior, mentions that
the emperor's mother[8] made him a present of a copy of the poems of Homer, written in golden
letters on purple[9] vellum. This is the earliest recorded instance of such a book in Christian
times. Its date would be about 235 A.D.

[8] Quædam parens sua.

[9] Purpureos libros.

The signal event which gave birth to mediæval illumination, or rather to the ideas which were
thereby concentrated upon the production of magnificent books, was the rebuilding of the Imperial
Palace and the Basilica of Constantine, henceforward to be known as the Church of Sancta Sophia,
or the Divine Wisdom, at Byzantium. The Emperor Justinian had been reigning six years when
a terrific fire, caused by the conflicts between the various seditions, called Circus factions,
of the time, almost entirely destroyed not only his own palace and the great Christian church
adjoining it, but the city of Constantinople itself. So important a scheme of reconstruction
had probably never been forced upon a government since the great fire in Rome under Nero. Justinian,
whose early training had been of the most economical kind, and whose disposition seemed to
be rather inclined to parsimony than extravagance, now came out in his true character. For
various reasons he had hitherto studiously concealed his master-passion; but this catastrophe
of the fire, which seemed at first so disastrous, was really a stroke of fortune. It afforded
the hitherto frugal sovereign the chance he had long waited for of spending without stint the
hoarded savings of his two miserly predecessors, and gratifying his own tastes for magnificent
architecture and splendour of apparel.

Not only Asia, with its wealth of gold and gems, but all the known world capable of supplying
material for the reconstructions, were called upon, and ivory, marbles, mosaics, lamps, censers,
candelabra, chalices, ciboria, crosses, furniture, fittings, pictures--in short, everything
that his own taste and the experience of four or five of the ablest architects of the time
could suggest--administered to the gorgeous, the unspeakable splendour of the new edifices
and their furniture.

Paul the Silentiary, an eye-witness of the whole proceeding, has left a description in verse,
and the accurate Du Fresne in prose, which enable us easily to trace how the Roman city of
Constantine became transformed into the semi-oriental Byzantium of Justinian. During the two
centuries which had elapsed since the days of the first Christian emperor many foreign luxuries
had found their way into the Eastern capital. Byzantine jewellery and Byzantine silks were
already famous. The patterns on the latter were not merely floral or geometrical, but four-footed
animals, birds, and scenes from outdoor sports formed part of the embellishment, which, therefore,
must have taken the place occupied in later times by the tapestries of Arras and Fontainebleau.

Hitherto the Byzantines had imported their silks from Persia. After the rebuilding of the Basilica,
Justinian introduced silk-culture into Greece. The garments ridiculed by Asterius, Bishop of
Amasia, in the fourth century, were repeated in the sixth century.

On the robe of the Empress Theodora--the wife of Justinian, who is shown in one of the mosaics
of St. Vitale at Ravenna as presenting rich gifts to that church--there is embroidered work
along the border, showing the Adoration of the Magi. Theodora pia was one among the many rôles
played by that all-accomplished actress; but this seems to have been after her death. Like
Lucrezia Borgia, perhaps, she was better than her reputation. With such surroundings liturgical
books could not have existed without sharing in the universal luxury of enrichment. And, in
point of fact, we still have records of such books. While Justinian reigned in Byzantium it
happened that Hormisdas, a native of Frosinone, was Pope of Rome. He was a zealous eradicator
of heresy (especially of the Eutychian and Manichæan), and in recognition of his services in
this direction the Greek Emperor, with his thanks, sent him a great Gospel-book richly decorated,
no doubt, with those splendid Eusebian canons and portraits of the Evangelists, the like of
which we see in the Byzantine examples still preserved at Paris, in London, and elsewhere.
Plates of beaten gold, studded with gems, formed the covers of the Gospel-book of Hormisdas.

Nor was this sumptuous volume the only, or even a rare, example of its kind. We read that the
art of book decoration had become a fashionable craze. No expense was spared in the search
for costly materials. Colours were imported from India, Persia, and Spain, including vermilion
and ultramarine, while the renowned Byzantine gold ink was manufactured from imported Indian
gold. Persian calligraphers had taught its use afresh to the Byzantine scribes.

If, as we may believe, the first object of the Roman miniatores was distinctness combined with
beauty, we may now believe that the object of the Byzantine scribes was splendour. The progress
had been from mere "cheirography" to calligraphy; now it was from calligraphy to chrysography
and arguriography.

This employment of gold and silver inks may be looked upon as the first step in the art of
illumination as practised in the Middle Ages. And the preliminary to the use of metallic inks
was attention to the tint of the vellum. The pioneers in this career of luxury no doubt had
observed that very white vellum fatigued the eye. Hence, at first, they tinted or stained it
with saffron, on one side at least, sometimes on both. Once begun, the tinting of the vellum
extended to other colours. For works of the highest rank the favourite was a fine purple, the
imperial colour of the Roman and Greek emperors. For chrysography, or gold-writing, the tint
was nearly what we call crimson. For arguriography, or silver-writing, it became the bluish
hue we call grape-purple. On the cooled purples vermilion ink was used instead of, or together
with, the gold or silver. As the usage began with the Greeks, we may be sure that it came originally
from Asia.

The Emperor Nero, once having heard that an Olympic Ode of Pindar in letters of gold was laid
up in one of the temples at Athens, desired that certain verses of his own should be similarly
written and dedicated on the Altar of Jupiter Capitolinus at Rome. This was an imperial luxury
several times repeated by other princes.

After the official establishment of Christianity it became a common practice to have the greater
liturgical books executed in the same costly fashion. And between the time of Constantine and
that of Basil the Macedonian many a burning homily was directed against the custom, denounced
as a sinful extravagance, which no doubt it was, but in vain until the fashion had worn itself out.

It might fairly be expected, this being the case, that many examples of this kind of codex
would still be in existence. But owing to war, fire, robbery, and other misfortunes but very
few remain. One of the oldest and finest is the so-called Codex Argenteus, or Silver-book,
now kept at Upsala, in Sweden, containing portions of the Gospels of the Mæsogothic Bishop
Ulfilas. Originally the effect of the stamped or burnished silver on the rich purple of the
vellum must have been very splendid, but now the action of the air has blackened it, as it
has done in many other instances where silver was used in illumination. Even gold will gather
tarnish, and in several such MSS. has turned of a rusty red. Gold ink was not invariably confined
to tinted vellum; it was often used on the plain ground. The copy of the Old Testament in Greek,
presented by the high priest Eleazar to King Ptolemy Philadelphus, was a roll of fine white
vellum, upon which the text was written in letters of gold.

To enter upon the antiquities of Greek palæography would lead us too far from our track in
view of the brevity of our present survey. We therefore with some reluctance turn from this
interesting topic to our more immediate subject. We may remark, however, that the great majority
of Greek MSS. are written on vellum. In the eleventh century are found instances of what is
called charta bombycina, or cotton-paper, appearing more plentifully in the twelfth century,
but on the whole vellum is the chief material of Byzantine illuminated books. Much has been
said about the want of life and total lack of variety of treatment in this school of art. To
a very great extent the charge is just, yet it could scarcely be otherwise. The one circumstance
which compelled Byzantine work to remain so long as if cast in one unalterable mould, and thus
to differ so strangely from that of Western artists, was due to the fact that in very early
Christian times the scribes and illuminators were enrolled into a minutely organised corporation
originating primarily in monasticism, but by no means confined to the monastic Orders. Lay
guilds existed, the regulations and methods of which were rigid beyond modern belief. So that,
as a class, Byzantine art has acquired the reputation of a soulless adherence to mechanical
rules and precedents, depriving it of originality and even of individuality, and therefore
excluding the remotest scintilla of artistic genius. Of the great crowd of examples of ordinary
work this may be true, but it certainly is not true of the best, by which it has the right
to be judged, as we shall see from the examples referred to by-and-by. Certainly there is one
invaluable particular in which Greek MSS. are superior to those of the West, Latin or otherwise.
That is, they are much more frequently signed with the names, localities, and dates of the
copyists and illuminators.

It will be some help towards our knowledge of this school if we divide its existence into chronological
sections or periods.

1. From præ-Christianity to the Age of Justinian, i.e. down to the year 535. (Justinian reigned
from 526 to 564.)

This period marks the decadence of ancient art, but carries with it the characteristics and
methods of the ancient Greek painters.

2. From the Age of Justinian to the Iconoclastic paralysis of art under Leo III. the Isaurian,
i.e. 564 to 726. (Leo reigned from 717 to 741.)

During this period vast numbers of illuminated liturgical books were destroyed for religious
or fanatical reasons, just as in our own Cromwellian times numbers of Horæ, Missals, etc.,
were destroyed as papistical and superstitious.

This Edict of 726 did not absolutely put an end to all art in MSS. It only had the effect of
excluding images of God, Christ, and the saints, as in Arabian and Persian MSS., leaving the
artist the free use of flowers, plants, and line ornament, after the manner of the Mohammedan
arabesques.

3. From Leo III. to the Empress Irene, who restored the worship of images in part, i.e. from
741 to 785. (Irene ruled from 780 to 801.)

This was a period of stagnation, though by no means of extinction of art.

4. From Irene to Basil I. the Macedonian, i.e. from 801 to 867.

A half-century and more of rapid renaissance to the most brilliant epoch of Byzantine art since
the time of Justinian, if not the zenith of the school.

Basil I. was a great builder--building, in fact, was his ruling passion--so that it may be
said that he took Justinian for his model both as a ruler and as a patron of the arts. (He
reigned from 867 to 886.)

5. From Basil the Macedonian to the Fall of Constantinople, i.e. from 886 to 1453.

Allowing for a few flashes of expiring skill in various reigns, this may be considered as a
period of gradual but certain decline to a state worse than death, for though the monks of
Greek and Russian convents still kept up the execution of MSS., it was only with the driest
and most lifeless adhesion to the Manual. This so-called art still exists, but more like a
magnetised corpse than a living thing.

Examples of the first period are seldom met with. We have one signal specimen in the British
Museum Add. MS. 5111, being two leaves only of a Gospel-book, and containing part of the Eusebian
canons, or contents-tables of the Four Gospels, etc. The work is attributed to the time of
Justinian himself. It is of the kind already referred to as probably affording the model of
work to the early illuminators of France and Ireland, and as being like the Gospel-book of
Hormisdas and those brought to England by Augustine in 596. Another example of the same Eusebian
canons is found in Roy. MS. 1 E. vi.

Of the fourth period--i.e. the ninth century--perhaps the most typical example is the Menologium
(a sort of compound of a calendar and lives of the saints), now in the Vatican Library (MS.
Gr. 1613). This MS. shows that the revival under Basil the Macedonian was a return not to Roman,
but to ancient Greek art, the facial types being of the purest classical character.

In some of them we see the horizontal frown of the Homeric heroes (σύνοφρυς Οδυσσευς), and
of the Georgian and Armenian races shown in the features of the Emperor Johannes Ducas. We
have, too, the large Hera-like eye with its mystic gaze, which, in later Byzantine work, becomes
first a gaze of lofty indifference, as in the portraits of the emperors and empresses, and
lastly a stony and expressionless stare; still, if possible, more stony and glaring when transferred
to Celtic and Carolingian Gospel-books. (See chapter on Carolingian Illumination.)

Of this fourth period we might indeed point to many examples. One must suffice. It is the beautiful
Greek Psalter, now at Paris (MS., p. 139), containing lovely examples of antique design, including
remarkable personifications or allegorical figures. In this MS. is one of the most graceful
personifications ever painted, that of Night, with her veil of gauze studded with stars floating
overhead. The seven pictures from the Life of David are among the best ever put into a MS.
But personification is carried to an extreme. Thus the Red Sea, the Jordan, Rivers, Mountains,
Night, Dawn, etc., are all represented as persons. The drawings are really beautiful and the
illuminated initials and general ornament in good taste.

For other examples the reader may consult the British Museum Cat. of Addit. MSS., 1841-5, p.
87; also Du Sommerard, Les Arts au Moyen-âge, tom. v., 1846, pp. 107, 162-8, and album, 2e
sér. pl. xxix., 8e sér. pl. xii.-xvi.

It is noticeable in these Byzantine pictures that while the figure-painting is often really
excellent, the design skilful, and the pose natural, the landscape, trees, etc., are quite
symbolic and fanciful. The painters seem to have been utterly ignorant of perspective. Buildings,
too, without any regard to relative proportion, are coloured merely as parts of a colour scheme.
They are pink, pale green, yellow, violet, blue, just to please the eye. That the painter had
a system of colour-harmony is plain, but he paid no regard to the facts of city life, unless,
indeed, it was the practice of the mediæval Byzantines to paint the outside of their houses
in this truly brilliant style. Possibly they did so; we have similar things in Italy even nowadays.

No doubt the French illuminators of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries drew from these
sources both their perspective and their architectural colouring. As for ornamental illumination,
the principal method of decoration was a square heading,[10] perhaps including a semicircular
arch sweeping over several arcades, the corners and wall-space being occupied either with arabesque
patterns, showing them to be after the time of Leo III., or with scrolls of line-ornament enriched
with acanthus foliages. Under this the scribe has placed his title.

[10] It has been thought to represent the Greek π, and to mean πύλη, a gate or door.

Other examples have a square frame filled with the latter kind of scrolls and foliages, leaving
a sort of open panel in the centre, in which is placed a small scene of sacred history or perhaps
of country life. Sometimes the title, in golden letters, is surrounded with medallions containing
heads of Christ and the Virgin, apostles, and saints. The peculiar interlacing bands of violet,
yellow, rose, blue, etc., which are still often seen in Russian ornament, are also features
of these Byzantine MSS.; but most of all is the lavish use of gold. Perhaps the fact most to
be remembered about these MSS. is that the painters of them worked in a manner that was absolutely
fixed and rigid, the rules of which are laid down in a manual called the Guide to Painting,
a work which has been translated by M. Didron.

So fixed and unalterable, indeed, is the manner that there is absolutely no difference to indicate
relative antiquity between a MS. of the eleventh century and one of the sixteenth or even later,
we might almost say, of the present day. In the matter of saint-images this is strictly true.

In the earlier centuries of Christianity, when liturgical books were the chief occupation of
the illuminator, it will need little pointing out to demonstrate that the page of the illuminated
manuscript, where it contained more than the mere ornamental initial, was simply a mirror of
the architectural decoration of the church in which it was intended to be used. Where the church
enrichments consist, as on the Byzantine basilicas, of panellings, arcades, and tympana of
gilded sculpture in wood or stone, with figures of saints, the pages of the Gospel-book bear
similar designs. Where, as in the Romanesque, they are rich in mosaics, and fretted arcades
interlacing each other, so are the illuminated Lives of the Saints, the Menologia, Psalters,
and Gospel-books. Where, as in the Gothic cathedrals of the West--of France, Germany, or Italy--the
stained glass is the striking feature of the interior, so it is with the illumination; it is
a "vitrail"--a glass-painting on vellum. On this latter point we shall have more to say when
we reach the period of Gothic illumination.

Incidentally, also, the book reflects the minor arts in vogue at the period of its execution.
Often in the illumination we may detect these popular local industries. We see mosaic enamelling,
wood-and stone-carving, and lacquer-work, and as we approach the Renaissance, even gem-cutting
and the delicate craft of the medallist. In Venice and the Netherlands we have the local taste
for flower-culture; in Germany we find sculpture in wood and stone; in France the productions
of the enameller and the goldsmith; until at length, in the full blaze of the Renaissance itself,
we have in almost every land the same varieties of enrichment practised according to its own
special style of work.

It has been said that the oldest Celtic illuminated MSS. show no signs of classic, or even
Byzantine, influence, yet the plan or framework of the designs makes use both of the cross
and the arch, as used in the earliest Byzantine examples. The details, indeed, are quite different,
and manifestly derived from indigenous sources. It may be, therefore, that the framework is
merely a geometrical coincidence which could not well be avoided. The fact that the basis of
pure Irish ornament is geometrical, and developed out of the prehistoric and barbarous art
of the savages who preceded the Celts in Ireland; such art as is used on the carved shafts
of spears, and oars, and staves of honour, and afterwards on stone crosses and metal-work,
may account for the similarity of ideas in ornament developed by old Roman decorators in their
mosaic pavements, and may reconcile, in some measure, the varied opinions of different writers
who have approached the subject from different points of view. Westwood adhered to the theory
of its being purely indigenous. Fleury, on the other hand, in his Catalogue of the MSS. in
the Library at Laon, asserts that we owe the knots and interlacements to the influence of the
painters, sculptors, and mosaicists of Rome. "These interlacings, cables, etc., there is no
Gallo-Roman monument which does not exhibit them, and, only to cite local instances, the cord
of four or five strands is seen in the beautiful mosaics discovered in profusion within the
last five years (1857-62) at Blanzy, at Bazoches, at Vailly, and at Reims. It was from them
that the Franks borrowed their knots and twists and ribbons for their belts and buckles, their
rings and bracelets" (pt. i., p. 8).

The elements, therefore, of book ornament, as used by the Celtic penmen, are such as were employed
by the prehistoric and sporadic nations in the textile art in plaiting and handweaving, and
afterwards transferred to that of metal-work. Terminals of animal, bird, or serpent form afterwards
combine with the linear designs. The dog and dragon are common, as may be seen in the archaic
vases produced by the Greeks before they came under the influence of ideas from Western Asia.

Among Celtic artists, as among those of later times, the practice of working in various materials
was common to the same individual, and Dagæus (d. 586) may compare with Dunstan, Eloy, Tuotilo,
and others.

To apply these observations to the style of illumination which now comes under our notice it
may be said that if we allow the cross and arch to be copied from the Byzantine MSS. introduced
from abroad, the details are undoubtedly supplied by the wickerwork and textile netting familiar
to the everyday life of the artist. Assisted by the fertile imagination of bardic lore in snakes,
dragons, and other mythic monsters of heroic verse, the illuminator produces a pencilled tapestry
of textile fabric or flexile metal-work as marvellous as it is unique. No amount of description
can give a true idea of what Celtic work is like; it must be seen to be comprehended. One glance
at a facsimile of such a MS. as the Book of Kells or the Lindisfarne Gospels, or those of St.
Chad at Lichfield, or wherever, as at St. Gall, such work is to be met with, will supersede
the most laboured attempt at description. We must therefore at once refer the reader to the
facsimile. When that has been inspected, we may proceed. In the first place it may be noted
that with these Occidental MSS. begins the importance and development of the initial, which,
indeed, as regards the illumination of Western Europe, is the very root of the matter. It is
the development of the initial letter first into the bracket, then into the border, which forms
the great distinction of the "Art of Paris," as Dante calls it, from that of Byzantium. The
latter is almost always of a squared or tabular design, traced and painted on a ground of burnished
gold. The former exhausts itself first in fantastic lacertine forms, twisted into the shapes
of the commencing letters or words of the writing, to which the suggestion of some Byzantine
MS, perhaps occasionally adds a frame. Next come birds, dogs, dragons, vine-stems, and spirals
embedded in couches of colour; but, whatever its character, always it is the letter that governs
and originates the ornament. Only at the very end of its life, when the border has completely
eclipsed the initial, is the idea of origin forgotten. Then, indeed, we find the border treillages
of flower-stem or leaf-work starting from meaningless points of the design, or scattered shapelessly
at random.

When we meet with work of this sort, we need no further proof that the real art is dead. We
have before us in such a performance--a trade production--a mere object of commerce, valuable
so far as it is the result of labour, but not as a work of art.

According to the Abbé Geoghegan,[11] Christianity was known to the people of Ireland in the
fourth century. The Greek Menology asserts that it was carried thither by Simon Zelotes, but
this is contradicted by the Roman Breviary and the Martyrologists. Simeon Metaphrastes attributes
it to St. Peter, Vincent of Beauvais to St. James. Unreliable as these traditions may be taken
singly, they nevertheless agree in placing the conversion of Ireland at a very early date,
probably, as Geoghegan says, in the fourth century. It is certain that about the middle of
the sixth century an Irish prince of distinguished ancestry, and himself a saint, led a band
of missionaries from Donegal to Iona. It is curious to observe that the event is almost contemporary
with the renovations of Justinian at Byzantium, and only a short time before the founding of
the famous Abbey of Monte Cassino by St. Benedict. Before the existence of the Benedictine
Order there was a monastery at Durrow, in Ireland, and in this monastery the aforesaid prince
was educated. His name was Columba. At least, so he is called, but whether it be merely in
allusion to his mission--"the Dove"--or really a patronymic, it is hard to say. He was the
messenger of peace to the natives of Iona, and even the name of the island seems to suggest
an allusion to the Old Testament missionary to the Ninevites, Jonah. The Irish missionaries
called the spot to which they went I. columcille, "the cell of the Dove's isle," or Columba's
cell. It is usually spoken of as the Monastery of Iona. Columba went on many other missions,
but ultimately returned to his beloved Iona, where he died in 597, the year after the arrival
of Augustine at Canterbury.

[11] Hist. de l'Irlande.

His companions busied themselves with the transcription of the Gospels for the use of new converts,
after the model of those they had seen and used at Durrow. It is even traditionally asserted
that Columba himself took part in the work, and transcribed both a Psalter and a Gospel-book,
moreover, that one of the Iona Gospel-books written by him is still in existence. This MS.,
whether the work of St. Columba or not, and probably it is not, is the earliest known monument
of Irish calligraphic art. It is known as the Book of Kells, and there is no doubt that it
is the most amazing specimen of penmanship ever seen. It is at once the most ancient, the most
perfect, and the most precious example of Celtic art in existence. It exhibits the striking
peculiarities and features of the style--the band work knots and interlacings, such as may
be seen on the stone crosses which mark the burial-places of British and Irish chieftains.
Witness, for instance, the Carew, or the Nevern Cross, described in the Journal of the Archœlogical
Institute, iii. 71, which might be taken to represent an initial "I" wrought in stone. There
is no foliage, no plant form at all. It is not, therefore, derivable from Romanesque, Byzantine,
or Oriental ornament. It is indigenous, if not to Ireland, at least to those prehistoric Aryan
tribes of which the Irish were a branch. Its basis is the art of weaving, and in some respects
resembles the matting of Polynesia much more closely that the vine-stems of Sicily or the arabesques
of Byzantium. Spirals occur that bewilder the eye, yet are so faultlessly perfect that only
the magnifying-glass brings out the incredible accuracy of the drawing. Among them are mythological
and allegorical beasts, snakes, and lizards--thought to represent demons, like the gargoyles
of Gothic architecture--in every conceivable attitude of contortion and agony. There are also
doves and fishes, but the latter, being sacred emblems together with the lamb, are seldom made
grotesque. It was a monkish legend that the devil could take the shape of any bird or beast,
except those of the dove and the lamb.

We have seen that in both Roman and Byzantine MSS. the titles and beginnings of books were
merely distinguished by a lettering in red or gold, rather smaller, in fact, than the ordinary
text, but rendered distinct by the means referred to. The handwriting, too, is clear and legible,
whether capital, uncial, or minuscule.

In absolute contrast to all this the Iona Gospels have the first page completely covered with
ornament. On the next the letters are of an enormous size, followed by a few words, not merely
in uncials, but in characters varying from half an inch to two inches in height. The page opposite
to each Gospel is similarly filled with decoration, separated into four compartments by an
ornamented Greek cross. This may, of course, be simply a geometrical device in no way connected
with Greece, but, taken in connection with other features, we see in it an indication of contact
with Byzantine work and the side of illumination which deals rather with the tabular enrichment
of the page than the development of the initial. Further, the writing, though large, is not
easily legible, for it is involved, enclaved, and conjointed in a manner sufficiently puzzling
to those who see it for the first time.

The plaiting and inlaying are certainly borrowed from local usages, and the survival of the
same kind of interlaced plaiting in the Scottish tartans is some evidence of the long familiarity
of the Celtic race with the art of weaving. When we remember that some of the early illuminators
were also workers in metals, we can understand that penmen like Dagæus, Dunstan, and Eloy had
designs at their command producible by either method. So we see, both in the MS. and in the
brooch and buckle, the same kind of design. Among the earliest animals brought into this Celtic
work we find the dog and the dragon; the latter both wingless and winged, according to convenience
or requirement. The dog is so common in some of the Celto-Lombardic MS., of which examples
still exist at Monte Cassino, as almost to create a style; while the dragon survives to the
latest period of Gothic art.

Whatever is introduced into a Celtic illumination is at once treated as a matter of ornament.
When the human figure appears it is remorselessly subjected to the same rules as the rest of
the work; the hair and beard are spiral coils, the eyes, nostrils, and limbs are symmetrical
flourishes. Colour is quite regardless of natural possibility. The hair and draperies are simply
patterned as compartments of green or blue, or red or black, as may be required for the tout
ensemble; the face remains white. Lightened tints are preferred to full colours, as pale yellow,
pink, lavender, and light green. A very ludicrous device is made use of to denote the folds
of the drapery; they are not darkened, there is no light and shade in Celtic work, but are
simply lines of a strongly contrasting colour. The blue and red appear to be opaque, and therefore
mineral colours; the rest are thin and transparent. Nothing can be more wayward than the colouring
of the symbolic beasts of the Gospels. In the Evangeliary of St. Columbanus (not Columba, but
the founder of Luxeuil and Bobbio, who died in 614) the Lion of St. Mark is an admirable beast
in a suit of green-and-red chain armour in the form of mascles or lozenges. (See the illustration
in Westwood's Palæographia Sacra Pictoria of a figure page from the Gospels of Mael Brith Mac
Durnan for a typical example.)[12]

[12] See also an article by Westwood in Journal Archæol. Inst., vii. 17, on "Irish Miniatures."

The only point that might argue the freedom in Celtic work from Byzantine influence is the
absence of gold, but perhaps this was only because the earlier Irish illuminators could not
obtain it; we find it later on. In the Book of Kells and the Lambeth Gospels there is no gold.
The former dates somewhere in the seventh century, not the sixth, as sometimes stated; the
latter, shortly before 927. In the Lindisfarne Gospels (698-721) gold is used. In the Psalter
of Ricemarchus, now in Trinity College, Dublin, are traces of silver. It is in connection with
these Irish MSS. that decorated and jewelled cases, called cumdachs, make their appearance,
such as the one attached to the Gospels of St. Moling in the Library of Trinity College, Dublin.
These book-shrines are almost exclusively an Irish production. In other countries the idea
was to adorn the volume itself with a splendid and costly binding, perhaps including gold,
silver, and gems. In Ireland the idea of sacredness was carried out in another way. Instead
of decorating the covers of the book itself, it was held, as in such a MS., for instance, as
the Book of Durrow, to be too venerable a relic to be meddled with, and a box or case was made
for it, on which they spent all their artistic skill. Generally the case is known as a cumdach;
but one kind, called the cathach, was so closed that the book was completely concealed, and
it was superstitiously believed that if it were opened some terrible calamity would overtake
its possessors. Such was the cathach of Tyrconnell. We must remember, however, that in this
instance the keepers were not men of book-learning, but hardy warriors who carried the cathach
into battle as a charm and an incitement to victory.

Of similar shrines, which were made for precious books by both the Greeks and Lombards, the
oldest and most famous is that made for Theudelinde, wife of Agilulf, King of the Lombards,
and given by her, in 616, together with the famous iron crown and other relics, to the Cathedral
of Monza, where they are still to be seen.

The enrichment of the covers of books themselves, as distinct from the use of cases or shrines,
has been usual in almost all ages and styles of decoration. When we come to speak of Carolingian
MSS. we shall find several remarkable instances.

We must now pass on from this curiously attractive theme of Celtic calligraphy to its contemporary
styles of France, Germany, Spain, and Italy, only remarking by the way that no other style
of its time had so marked an influence on the local scriptoria into which it was introduced
as this same Celtic of Ireland. It is not only traceable, but easily recognised all along the
Rhine, in Burgundy, the Swiss Cantons, and Lombardy, until at length overwhelmed by the general
introduction of Romanesque or Byzantine, which was restored and filtered through the Exarchate
and the Lombard schools during the early days of the new Carolingian Empire.

To reach the beginning's of these various degenerate and illiterate attempts at book-work we
have only to watch the last expiring gleams of classic art beneath the ruthless footsteps of
the barbarian invaders of the old Roman Empire.

In the sixth century the light of the old civilisation was fast fading away. Perhaps we may
look upon the so-called splendour of the reign of Dagobert in France as the spasmodic scintillations
of its latest moments of existence. The kingdom of Dagobert, after 631, was almost an empire.
For the seven years preceding his death, in 638, he ruled from the Elbe and the Saxon frontier
to that of Spain, and from the Atlantic Ocean to the confines of Hungary. It was during his
reign that we read of the skill in metal-work of the celebrated St. Eloy of Noyon, the rival
of our own St. Dunstan.

St. Eloy or Eligius (588-659) began his artistic career as the pupil of Abbo, the goldsmith
and mint-master to Chlothaire II., and rose from the rank of a goldsmith to that of Bishop
of Noyon. Among his handiwork were crowns, chalices, and crosiers, and he is reputed to have
made the chair of bronze-gilt now in the National Library at Paris, called the fauteuil of
Dagobert, and many other works, which disappeared either during the wars of Louis XV. or those
of the Revolution of 1789. He founded the Abbey of Solignac, near Limoges, and it is not improbable
that the reputation of this city for metal-work and enamelling may be dated from his foundation.
With such works as those of Eloy before them, it is difficult to believe that the wretched
and puerile attempts at ornamental penmanship and illumination which are shown at Laon and
other places as the work of this period can possibly represent the highest efforts of the calligrapher.
But we must remember that St. Eloy was an extraordinary genius in his art, and that the bulk
of the clergy, not to mention ordinary workmen, were very ignorant and ill-taught. Very few,
indeed, were men who could be considered cultured. Gregory of Tours, the historian, and Venantius
Fortunatus, the hymn-writer, are among the few.

In the Library at Laon, M. Fleury describes a MS. of the Natural History of Isidore of Seville,
which is looked upon as a work of reference both as regards art and learning. It was at one
time a very popular book, being a Latin cyclopædia, dealing with the sciences and general knowledge
of the time; yet the example referred to by M. Fleury shows us only a crowd of initials learnedly
styled by the Benedictine authors and others "ichthio-morphiques" and "ornithoeides," i.e.
made up of fishes and birds, and about equal in quality and finish to the efforts of a very
ordinary schoolboy.

These initials betray an utter decadence from the beautiful uncials of the fifth and sixth
centuries, seen in the St. Germain's Psalter, for example, now in the National Library at Paris.
The colours are coarse and badly applied, and even where brightest are utterly unrefined and
without taste.

Notwithstanding, however, the apparently total eclipse or extinction of Roman art in Gaul,
or, as it must henceforth be called, France, it is claimed by M. Fleury[13] that the interlacements
which constitute the principal feature of these earlier Merovingian MSS. are derived from the
remains of Roman mosaics found profusely at Blanzy, Bazoches, and Reims. This may be so, but
those mosaics would not account for the same features in the Irish work, for the Romans never
reached Ireland as occupants or colonists.

[13] See later.

Take another example from the Laon collection, the History of Orosius. The first page is a
type of the species to which it belongs, and, moreover, a good sample of the earliest efforts
of all pictorial art. An ordinary rectangular cross occupies the centre of the page. The centre
shows us the Lamb of the Apocalypse and St. John. On the arms are the beasts which typify the
Evangelists--their emblems, as they are sometimes called. We notice that they are all symbolic,
and not intended to be natural imitations of reality. The various animals scattered about the
page are all symbolic--all have a mystical interpretation and raison d'être. A border-frame,
passing behind each extremity of the cross, contains a number of dog-like animals, some plain,
others spotted, while the body of the cross itself is occupied with attempts at foliage ornaments.
In the left upper corner are the letters "X P I," in the right "I H V," thick foliage springing
from the "I" and "V" and falling back over the monogram. In the lower corners are two fishes
and two doves, each pair hanging to a penwork chain.

The emblem of John, on the upper extremity of the cross, is an eagle-headed and winged man
holding a book; its opposite one of Lucas at foot is a singularly conceived anthropoid and
winged ox, also with a book. On the left Marcus, whose head is indescribable; and on the right
Matthew, with human head, the rest of the figures being as before. The eye in all the figures
is a most remarkable feature. Both in the pictures and the initials of this MS. the outline
has been drawn in black ink, and the colours yellow, red, brown, and green applied afterwards.

As the new masters of the West were not so much interested in the artistic remains of the mangled
civilisation they were endeavouring to destroy as in mastery and military success, it was left
for the monasteries and the church to see to the welfare of books and monuments.

In the seventh century it was the monasteries that saved almost all we know of the preceding
centuries. During the turmoil of the period from the fifth to the eighth century we find certain
quiet corners where learning and the arts still breathed, grew, and dwelt in security. Lérins,
founded by St. Honoratus of Aries; Luxeuil by Columbanus, Bobbio his last retreat; and, above
all, Monte Cassino, the great pattern of monasticism, the Rule of whose founder was destined
to become the basis of all later Orders, were each of them steadily labouring to rescue the
civilisation daily threatened by the ravage of war, and to preserve it for the benefit of the
ignorant hordes who, because of their ignorance, now only aimed at its entire destruction.
We have seen how these monks and clerics, with more goodwill than ability, did their best to
adorn the books which came into their hands. It is a poor show, but there is no better. It
is absolutely our only record of how civilisation managed to struggle through the storm.

Let us, then, be thankful even for the Laon "Orosius," for the Sacramentary of Gellone, and
the Mozarabic Liturgies of Puy. They are among the links between ancient and mediæval art.

As already stated, the handwriting of Merovingian MSS. is mainly an adaptation of the Roman
uncial, as it is in Irish and Lombardic, or, we might say, everywhere else. Abbreviations we
still uncommon. Where minuscules are used, the writing is not quite so legible as in the larger
hands, but we are not met by the singular difficulties of some of the Lombardic texts.

A few solitary texts of the earliest time are in capitals, such as the really handsome "Prudentius"
of the Paris National Library, where the entire text of the great Christian poet is boldly
inscribed in the centre of a large white page of vellum, like a series of separate inscriptions.
The first few words are "rubrished" in the antique manner. The MS. is supposed to date previous
to the year 527. A little later than this St. Columbanus founded the monastery of Luxeuil,
and later still, viz. in 616, that of Bobbio.

If we turn to the Visigothic area, including the South of France and the entire peninsula of
Spain, our first and typical example is the celebrated Sacramentary of Gellone. This MS. dates,
it is said, from the eighth century. It is written throughout in Visigothic uncials, though
executed in the South of France. Its ornamentation is frankly barbaric. The colours used are
yellow, red, and green. The great initials are double lined, and the interlinear space filled
in with a flat tint of colour and lines of red dots, as in the Book of Kells occasionally follow
the contours. Here, also, are the fish or bird-form letters as in the Laon "Orosius." Now and
then occurs a tiny scene--perhaps a fight between two grotesque brutes, neither fish, nor fowl,
nor beast known to the naturalist, but a horrible compound of the worst qualities of each.
The human figure, when it occurs, is childishly shapeless. But the design and treatment, nevertheless,
bear witness to a lively imagination and considerable knowledge of Christian symbolism. It
is these mental qualities which, in spite of the manifest absence of manual skill, render the
Gellone Evangeliary one of the most precious monuments of its time. Of the rest of the MSS.
of this wretched period we will say nothing.

          "Non ragioniam di lor', ma guard' e passa."

We are glad to hurry on for another century or so, remembering that the leading idea now is
the development of the initial letter.

From the moment when the initial was placed beneath the miniature the object of the whole design
was not to give prominence to the initial but to the picture. Until then, that is, whilst the
initial remains above or beside or outside the picture, it is the initial we must watch for
style and development. And therefore we seize on one letter among those of the latter part
of the eighth century, because of the frequency of its occurrence in the Gospel-book or Evangeliary,
one of the commonest books of the time. This the letter L of "Liber Generationis," etc., the
commencing words of St. Matthew. This passage is always made of importance, and on the initial
and arrangement of the words the artist expends his best efforts.

Properly I should here display pictorially the series of which I speak. It would certainly
be the quickest way of explaining the matter. But as this is out of the question for many reasons,
and as the present little guide aims rather at showing the way than marching through it, the
reader must be content to take its advice about where to look for examples which it cannot
reproduce.

Regarding the letter L as an index of time and style, first we may take the Irish L of the
Book of Kells on p. 17, pt. 1, of Miss Stokes' Early Christian Art in Ireland. Note first the
form of the letter, then the way it is filled up with ornament. Compare this, which dates from
the seventh century, with a similar L in the Ada-Codex in the Town Library at Trèves, No. 22.
A black and white copy of this is given in taf. 6 of Lamprecht Initial Ornamentik. This carries
up the work to the second half of the eighth century. Next, say the L in the Town Archives
at Cologne, No. 147. This belongs to the second half of the ninth century. The chief departure
here is towards the knotted band work which figures so largely afterwards both in German and
Italian book ornament, the form is still unchanged. But with the tenth century comes change
of form as well as of mode of filling, as for example taf. 19 of Lamprecht, in which there
is a complete alteration of treatment. The student may take for similar comparison also the
I of "In principio" of St. John's Gospel, and the B of the first psalm in the Psalter, and
carry the comparison on to the end of the fourteenth century, by referring to the MSS. in the
British Museum and other public libraries, or in the numerous illustrated works to be found
in those collections.

The succession of the school of Iona shows us in the first examples of English illumination
the type exemplified in the Book of Kells, modified, but not very much, by its transference
to Lindisfarne.

Whatever doubt may be felt as to the influence of Byzantine or Romanesque models on pure Irish
work, such as the Book of Kells, there can be none as regards the Lindisfarne Gospels. In the
first place we have gold both in the lettering and ornament. This MS., known also as the Durham
Book (Brit. Mus., Nero D. iv.), was the work of Abbat Eadfrith, of Lindisfarne. It has been
often described, as it is really a most precious example of eighth-century art in this country.
No other MS. of its time is to be found in any continental scriptorium to be compared with
it. It is not a collection of clumsy inartistic attempts at ornamental writing, but high-class,
effective work, which should be seen and studied by every student of illumination.

From its style of execution, its details of portraiture, and other features, it may be looked
on as one of the earliest links between the two extremes of Oriental and Occidental Art.

Another MS. in the British Museum (Vesp. A. 1), which combines the Roman method of painting
as in the Vergils with the penwork of these Anglo-Celtic Gospel-books, may also repay careful
examination.

It is very possible that the celebrated scriptoria of York and Jarrow may have been furnished
with both MSS. and copyists from Rome, yet there can be little doubt that the intercourse with
Durham would be quite as active. Nor is it less probable that similar intercourse would keep
them en rapport with Oxford, St. Alban's, Westminster, Glastonbury, and other scriptoria, so
that in the eighth century England stood with respect to art second to no other country in
the Christian world.

During the ninth century active intercourse with the Frankish Empire enriched English churches
and religious houses, especially Winchester, with examples of Byzantine and Roman models, which
Charlemagne had introduced into his own palatine schools. From such secondary models as the
Sacramentaries and Evangeliaries executed at Tours, Soissons, Metz, and other busy centres
of production, English illuminators succeeded in forming a distinctive style of their own.
In the French or, rather, Frankish MSS., while the richness of the gold and the beauty and
delicacy of the colouring are in themselves most charming, and while certain features may in
general be recognised as no doubt suggestive there is nothing which quite predicts the remarkable
treatment which characterises the English work. "Opus Anglicum" was its distinctive title.
The term, indeed, was applied to all English artistic productions more or less--embroidery
among the rest. The women of England, says William of Poitiers, were famous for their needlework,
the men excelled in metal-work and jewellery. But it was the illuminated Service Books that
have perpetuated the term.

From the Lindisfarne Gospels to the Winchester Benedictionals is a far cry--but Art is long
and time is fleeting, hence many pages of intervening description must be omitted. We may,
however, refer the reader to Westwood's Palæographia Sacra Pictoria, the Palæographical Society's
publications, and other works, for enlightenment on this period. On the Rouen and Devonshire
Benedictionals much interesting information may be found in vol. 24 of the Archæologia and
in the recent volume of the Bradshaw Society concerning them.

The work is peculiar; and if we consider the treatment of foliage apart from the colour, we
cannot but notice its similarity to the ivory carving observable in the consular diptychs.
Ivory carving was then a popular artistic occupation. The foliage is graceful, the composition
well-balanced, and the colour mostly bright body colour applied in the Greek manner. The fault
of the heads is that they are too small for the figure, and of the draperies that the folds
are overdone too much fluttering detail. The gilding differs from the Byzantine in not being
laid on the vellum in the form of burnished leaf, but painted on like the colours, not only
in the figures but in the framework and ornaments.

The British Museum contains several characteristic examples, but, as has been said, the very
finest are those at Rouen and in the library of the Duke of Devonshire.

Perhaps no genuine example exists earlier than the Golden Charter of King Edgar of true Winchester
illumination, executed forty years after the accession of Athelstan, whose Coronation Book
(Brit. Mus., Tib. A. 2) is most probably not English at all, but Carolingian of the finest
type. Many other scriptoria in England in the tenth century were equally busy with Winchester,
but none could vie with the royal city in the production of illuminated books.

Once more crossing the Channel let us now inquire what has been doing among the Franks since
the Gellone Sacramentary, especially in the schools instituted by the Emperor Charles the Great.
Materials for this inquiry are most abundant. One of the more important works on the subject
is the lucid monograph of Dr. Rahn, of Zurich, on the Golden Psalter of Folchard at St. Gall,
which deals more or less with the whole question of Carolingian art, while M. Léop. Delisle's
brochure on the Evangeliary of St. Vaast of Arras gives us a copious account of the Franco-Saxon
branch of it. Apart, however, from these sources of information, we have not a few original
MSS. still extant, which, of course, more vividly speak for themselves, and only require pointing
out to the student.

The clearest method of study being to take things in the order of their creation, so in order
to understand the "character of savage grandeur and naïve originality" which has been attributed
to this style, it will be best to take up these MSS. chronologically. At the same time, if
anyone merely wishes to know what the style is like at its best, Dr. Rahn must be his guide,
as the Golden Psalter which he has selected for study is as splendid an example as perhaps
may be found in the whole career of the art. We have noticed how the Irish missionary-artists
carried their work to their continental settlements, how they planted their schools in Burgundy,
Switzerland, and Lombardy. Of all their depositories, however, numerous as they are elsewhere,
none is richer in the relics of their work than the celebrated abbey which takes its name of
St. Gall from that disciple of St. Columbanus, who in 614 founded his little cell beside the
Steinach, about nine miles south of the Lake of Constance. Under Charles Martel the cell had
become a monastery, which he endowed as a Benedictine abbey. In 830 was founded its magnificent
library of MSS. The library still exists, and at the present moment gives shelf-room to 1,800
MSS. and more than 41,700 printed books. Besides this, another, called the Town Library, founded
in the sixteenth century, and containing 500 MSS. and 60,400 printed books, gives this upland,
busy, modern manufacturing Swiss town no mean importance as a centre of literary culture. Physically
it is probably the highest town in Europe, its street-level being very nearly 2,200 feet above
that of the sea. Its libraries and museums are rich storehouses of mediæval treasures. The
architect raves over its monastic buildings; the scholar and palæographer gloat over its books
and MSS. In the libraries of St. Gall are some of the masterpieces of Irish Saxon, and Carolingian
art, and its great Benedictine abbey under Grimald from 841, i.e. during the later Carolingian
period, possessed one of the most active scriptoria in Europe. To begin with the beginning,
however, we must leave St. Gall, and, passing by some less important MSS., go back to the year
781 and the city of Toulouse. In that year, and in the Abbey of St. Sernin (Saturninus) in
that city, was finished a wonderful and truly splendid manuscript of the Gospels as a present
to the Emperor and his wife Hildegardis. This is our first example. It now is to be seen in
the National Library, Paris (Nouv. acqu. Lat. 1203).

Next comes the Evangeliary of Abbat Angilbert of Centula (now St. Riquier), near Abbeville,
Charlemagne's son-in-law. This MS., executed about the year 793, is still preserved in the
Town Library of Abbeville. In the same rank, but somewhat finer in execution, comes a third
Evangeliary, that of St. Médard of Soissons, now in the National Library, Paris (No. 8850, Lat.).

In these three MSS., reproductions from which are to be found in various modern works on art,
the writing and ornamentation are the parts into which the artist puts his best work, not the
figure drawing. Although in the St. Sernin MS. there is, in the Christ-figure, a distinct attempt
at portraiture quite different from the coils and pen-flourishes which make up the Gospel-figures
in the Irish and Merovingian MSS. Here the inspiration is clearly Greek, not Irish. The figure
is draped in green and violet--seated on an embroidered cushion before a low castellated wall.
The hair is light, and the chin beardless. The design shows a decided likeness to the consular
ivory diptychs, and the painting follows the Eastern methods. In the details of ornament only
are Irish features. Thus we trace in this MS. the sources of Carolingian art. The MS. being
dated, is important as affording a means of comparison with other undated work. It was presented
to St. Sernin on the occasion of the visit of the Emperor and Empress with their son, the amiable
Louis "le Debonaire,"[14] just after the latter had been made King of Aquitaine. Godeschalk,
the writer of it, on the last two leaves tells us that it took him seven years to accomplish.
It is written throughout in gold and silver letters on purple vellum, and is, moreover, ornamented
with borders, pictures, portraits, and panellings. At first it was kept in a cumdach of silver,
set with precious stones, but that has disappeared.

[14] Mod. Fr. "Debonnaire."

The Golden Gospels of St. Médard, like the Centula MS., are similar, but betoken an advance
in both taste and execution. The figures are still rude and deformed, but the artist shows
a laudable desire, an ambition, in fact, to imitate the work of better artists than himself.
Nevertheless, the calligraphy and borderwork are the best parts of his performance. In this
MS. the use of silver betrays a tendency to prodigality. In design, the influence of the artists
who built the new church of San Vitale at Ravenna, a church which became the model for the
Abbey of St. Médard itself, is quite manifest, yet perhaps need not be traced further than
Soissons or Pavia. In certain of the illustrations, as, for instance, the "Fountain of Life,"
there is at once a likeness and a variation as compared with the same symbol in the Evangeliary
of St. Sernin. They are both too intricate to describe, but of both it may be said that they
show an intimate acquaintance with early Christian symbolism. The ivory carving and architecture
of Ravenna have evidently been known to the director of these frames and backgrounds. In the
year which saw the completion of Godeschalk's Gospels, Alcuin was at Parma, but when the St.
Médard's Gospels were written he was Abbot of St. Martin's at Tours. It was the presence of
Alcuin at the Court of Charlemagne that accounts for the prevalence of the Saxon character
in the new and beautiful handwriting we now call Carolingian. It was the presence of Paul Warnefrid
that accounts for much of the classic and most of the Lombardic features, both of the writing
and the illumination. Many other scholars assisted these two in the various centres in which
Alcuin established branches of the palatine schools. The intercourse with Italy and England
was constant, and led to the frequent interchange of books, and community of methods and models.
Another fine MS. of the same period (c. 780) is the Golden Ada-Codex of St. Mesmin or Maximin,
of Trèves. In 1794 this MS. was taken from Trèves to Mainz; in 1815 it was transferred to Aix-la-Chapelle,
and is now back again at Trèves. The externals of the Ada-Codex are very costly, its binding
being a late Gothic pendant to the cover of the Echternach Evangeliary at Gotha. In the centre
of the fore-cover there is a magnificent topaz,[15] with several imperial figures. Inside,
the work is a handsome example of the early Carolingian.[16] It contains the four Gospels written
by order of the "Mother and Lady Ada," sister of Charles the Great, Abbess of St. Mesmin. Next
we have in the British Museum another grand example of the style as modified by English or
Saxon influence. Also the Zurich Bible, of the same date, executed at Tours--and the Bamberg
Bible, said to be a copy of the Alcuin Bible of the same school. Then follow the Drogo Sacramentary,
presented by the Emperor to his natural son Drogo, Archbishop of Metz (826-855), perhaps illuminated
at Metz, but of the same school as those above mentioned.

[15] Or sardonyx (Lamprecht says topaz.)

[16] A photograph of the cover is sold by F. Linz of Trèves.

In our own National Library, again, we have the Athelstan Gospels (Harl. 2788), also in all
probability executed at Metz. At Paris (Nat. Lib., Theol. Lat. 266) is the Evangeliary of Lothaire--a
most beautiful example of gold-writing and ornament. So we might enumerate a score of splendid
MSS., and classify them into their various minor schools. But such is not our object. All we
want here is a general but clear idea of the style as a whole.

To characterise it broadly by the names of its most important elements we should call it a
Lombard-Saxon style--the interlacing bands and knots and other minor features and the main
character of the writing being of Saxon origin, the classical foliages and manner of painting
the figures and certain ideas of design Lombardic, strengthened by direct contact with the
sources of the latter style. Whatever variations there may be, they can generally be accounted
for according to locality and centre of production. We have instanced a few examples of the
earlier time as showing the principal features of the style. Under the Emperor Charles the
Great's grandson, Charles the Bald, Carolingian illumination reached its highest point of excellence,
and the MSS. executed for him or his contemporaries accordingly give a correct idea of what
Carolingian illuminators considered as good work. The chief centres were still Tours and Metz--the
latter a branch of the former, but gradually developing distinct features of its own; and among
the productions of these schools there still remain precious--we might say priceless--examples,
such as the Vivien Bible of the Paris Library, so-called because presented by Count Vivien,
Abbat of St. Martin's of Tours, to Charles the Bald in 850.[17] It contains a fine picture
of the presentation with beardless figures. It has also a number of exceedingly splendid initials
showing strong Byzantine influence--capitals of columns of classic origin and traces of Merovingian
in letter forms and ornamental details. It is like the Evangeliary of Lothaire, already mentioned,
a most sumptuous example rich in silver and gold--the latter having a grand portrait of Lothaire
seated on his throne. Both MSS. are in the National Library at Paris, the Vivien, No. 1 (Theol.
Lat.), the Lothaire, No. 266. But the one example to which we would call the reader's attention,
though among the earlier productions of the period, as not only most readily accessible, but
most precious to the English student, is the celebrated Alcuin Bible in the British Museum
(Add. MS. 10546). This venerable MS. is a copy of the Vulgate revised by Alcuin himself, and
said to be exactly similar to the one at Bamberg. Biblical revision was perhaps the most important
of his many literary occupations, and this volume is reasonably believed to be the actual copy
prepared for presentation to Charlemagne under the reviser's own superintendence, possibly,
in part at least, the work of his own hand. It is a large folio, finely written in a neat minuscule,
mainly Saxon hand, with uncial initials in two columns. The miniatures, including their architectural
details, are in the Roman manner, the ornaments partly Byzantine, partly Celtic. The great
similarity of design between different manuscripts is strikingly exemplified by a comparison
of three borders from (a) the Evangeliary of St. Vaast of Arras, fol. 28 v. (see Delisle);
(b) the Evangel. in National Library, Paris, anc. fds. Lat. 257 (see Louandre), and Evangeliary
No. 309 Bibl. de Cambrai (see Durieux).

[17] Plate in t. 1 of Louandre.

Indeed, comparisons of this kind are very instructive frequently as suggestive of provenance,
as each working centre would have its own set of models and designs. Of course, comparison
of the MSS. themselves is out of the question, but the comparisons can often be effected by
the student's having Louandre, Durieux, Fleury, Labarte, etc., by his side during the examination
of any given period. The limits of our little book forbid our speaking of other examples of
this splendid style, but we cannot conclude without noticing that in the opinion of M. Ferdinand
Denis, the Golden Gospels of St. Médard of Soissons is the most beautiful Carolingian MSS. extant.

In the sixth century the monasteries, such as they were, necessarily kept themselves very quiet
and unobtrusive. They were situated usually in out-of-the-way corners, solitudes apart from
civilisation, or, at least, apart from the busy haunts of men. In the eighth century there
is a marked difference. The Capitular of Aix-la-Chapelle, of 789, required that minor schools
should be attached to all monasteries and cathedral churches without exception, and that children
of all ranks, both noble and servile, should be received into them. Also that the larger monasteries
should open major schools in which the seven sciences of mathematics, astronomy, arithmetic,
music, rhetoric, dialectics, and geography, were to be taught--and this in two ways. There
were to be two sorts of schools--interior or claustral, intended for monastics only, and exterior
or canonical, intended for secular students. These schools were under separate scholastics
or masters, and lay students were received in the exterior schools as freely and fully as in
the public schools of the present time. Mabillon[18] gives a list of some twenty-seven monastic
and cathedral schools, by no means confined to great or wealthy cities, but well distributed
throughout the Empire.

[18] Præfat. in iv. Sæcul. 184.

In the time of Charlemagne those most in repute were Tours, St. Gall, Fulda, Reims, and Hirsfeld.

We have given the names of Alcuin and Paul Warnefrid as the chief promoters of the Carolingian
Revival, but we should not omit that of Theodulf, of Orleans, the indefatigable school inspector
of the time. He it was who assisted the artistic side of the movement by his ingenious contrivances
as a writer and illustrator of school books. Undoubtedly it was from his suggestions that we
so often find in mediæval scientific treatises of the driest kind those graphic and wonderful
tabulations and edifices, labelled and turreted, which make Aristotle, Priscian, and Marcianus
Capella, not only comprehensible, but attractive. Theodulf composed in simple and easy Latin
verse--somewhat after the style of the Propria quæ maribus our own childhood--the description
of a supposed tree of science, which he had drawn and painted, on the trunk and branches of
which were the figures and names of the seven liberal arts. At the foot sat Grammar--the basis
of all learning--holding on her hand a lengthy rod (ominous for the tender student). On the
right Rhetoric stretched forth her hand. On the left was Dialectic. Philosophy sat on the summit;
the rest being disposed according to their relative importance. The whole was explained in
the Carmina de septem artibus, in which the bishop, who was one of the famous poets of the
age, strove in flowery language to render these dry-as-dust studies acceptable to the youthful
understanding. Theodulf was a great scholar, and assisted Alcuin in the revision of the Bible,
one copy of which he himself had written whilst still Abbat of Fleury, about 790. At the beginning
of this Bible is a poem in golden letters on purple, and a preface in prose, also in golden
letters, giving a synopsis of the several books. The text differs somewhat from the Alcuin
Bible, as it is that of Jerome before Alcuin's revision. This MS. is now at Paris. Another
Bible executed to the order of Theodulf is now in the Town Library at Puy.

It seems incredible, after the efforts made by Charlemagne and his ministers for the maintenance
of learning and the arts, that there should ever be any risk of a return to barbarism, but
it is a fact that the dissolution of the Empire proved in certain localities the suspension
of prosperity. Fortunately the monastics--especially the Benedictines--and the canons of the
cathedrals still kept up the practice of copying books; but almost all the South of France,
Languedoc, and Provence, always conservative, remained more or less illiterate. They produced
poets and jongleurs, but seldom artists or scholars. And even in the North, where the capitular
schools were most flourishing--as Paris, Reims, and Chartres--the general tendency was towards
relapse. In High Germany it was even worse. In spite of all efforts of the clergy by the extension
of secular schools, the laity preferred the excitement of chase and camp to the quiet humdrum
of the schoolroom. Religion seemed to be regarded rather as a profession than a principle,
quite right in its place, i.e. the Church and the monastery, but unsuited for active life.
The wealthy land-owners, therefore, did not cease to endow religious houses or to build churches,
but they left book-learning to the clerics. Accordingly the clerics and the monastics flourished
exceedingly.

From the beginning of the tenth century to the beginning of the thirteenth was the Golden Age
of monasticism. The Order of St. Benedict scattered its foundations thickly over France and
Western Germany, while its reformed colonies of Cluny, Citeaux, Clairvaux, and the Chartreuse
again spread their settlements in all directions. Thus we find Cluny established in 910, Grammont
in 1076, the Chartreuse in 1080, Citeaux in 1098, Savigny in 1105, Tiron in 1109, Austin Canons
in 1038, Premonstrants in 1120, Crutched Friars in 1169. In England, from 1100, scarcely a
year passed by without the establishment of some fresh foundation. During the thirty-five years
of the reign of Henry I. more than 150 religious houses were founded. And even during the disastrous
reign of Stephen, in less than twenty years, no fewer than 100 houses of various Orders were
established. The twelfth century in England was especially the age of monasteries.

It is true that not very much in the way of original literature, except theological treatises,
can be assigned to the three centuries referred to, but the unwearied labours of the copyist
and illuminator did much to preserve the works which previous centuries had created. Of course,
in so long a period changes were many and great. So great, indeed, that between a MS. of 850
and another of 1200 scarcely is there a common feature.

From 850 to 1000 in France the Carolingian minuscule, from the first so clear and beautiful,
remained with scarce a stroke of alteration. But immediately after the opening of the eleventh
century a series of rapid changes set in, and by the beginning of the twelfth a new hand, perfectly
clear and regular, but quite different from the Carolingian, had been formed, which lasted
until it was superseded by the Gothic, while a system of contractions adopted because of the
scarcity of parchment creates a fresh need for study apart from the peculiarities of personal
habits. Side by side, too, with this there grows up a non-professional hand--the so-called
cursive or running hand of the ordinary writer--in many cases, especially in deeds and other
brief compositions, all but utterly illegible, except to the professional palæographer. Occasionally
these autographs are of the highest importance and intensely interesting, as, for instance,
when in an English MS. we come Across a note in the handwriting of Ordericus (Vitalis) or Matthew
Paris.

From 900 to 1200 the vast majority of MSS., illuminated and otherwise, were the work of monastics.
Every house of any note had its room set apart for writing. The larger monasteries sometimes
utilised the cloisters of the churches themselves, in recesses of which they had desks or tables
placed for the copyist. Usually, however, they had a large common room called the scriptorium,
where either the copyist and illuminator worked separately and each on his own account, or
where a number of copyists awaited with pen and parchment the dictation by one of the fraternity
of some work of which a number of copies had to be made. "No admittance except on business"
was the rule of this chamber. There, under the direction of the armarius, the expert writers
did their work.

Sometimes a single monk executed the book from first to last by himself. He prepared the vellum,
ruled it with the fine metal point, copied the text, painted the illuminations, put on the
gilding, and even added the binding. Generally, however, the labour was divided--one monk scraped
and polished the parchment; another ruled it; another wrote the text, leaving spaces for initials
and miniatures; another put in the initials and did the gilding and flourishing with borders,
etc.; and another painted the miniatures. This in the monasteries was done in the case of large
and important MSS., and afterwards, when illuminating became a lay-craft, subdivision of labour
was the common practice. Binding was done in a special apartment, and by one specially skilled
therein.

The scriptorium was looked upon as a sort of sacred place, and the work of copying often considered
as a labour of piety and love--entered upon with devout prayer, and solemnly blessed by the
superior, especially in cases where the books to be written were Bibles, or connected with
the services of the house, the Lives of the Saints, or Treatises on Theology.

Very frivolous or absurd indeed are sometimes the inducements to copyists to do gratuitous
work of this kind, such as that every letter transcribed paid for one sin of the copyist, and
it is said that a certain monk--a heavy sinner--only owed his salvation to the fact that the
number of letters in a Bible which he copied exceeded by a single unit the sum total of his sins.

Of course, only really expert calligraphers were employed on great and important works. In
the monastery all such labour was gratuitous, that is, the copyist received no pecuniary remuneration,
only his food and lodging. Yet even this had to be provided for. Hence the frequent requests
for donations from the laity.

To give a volume to a monastery did not always mean actually to present the book, but to stand
the expense of its production in the monastery itself. In the case of specially distinguished
penmen, their entertainment in a monastery was sometimes an expensive business. It was only
in later times, however, when lay-artists were invited to reside in the monastery to do their
work that money was paid for their services. Very often we find notices at the end of volumes
that "So-and-so" had ordered the book to be written and illuminated at his expense, and an
invocation for the gratitude of the reader and remembrance in his prayers is added, sometimes
with the date to the very hour when the book was finished.

The copyist's last words after his task was completed are often very full of weariness--sometimes
pious, sometimes hankering after fleshly lusts, occasionally quite too dreadful to repeat.
"May Christ recompense for ever him who caused this book to be written." At the end of a Life
of St. Sebastian: "Illustrious martyr, remember the monk Gondacus who in this slender volume
has included the story of thy glorious miracles. May thy merits assist me to penetrate the
heavenly kingdom; and may thy holy prayers aid me as they have aided so many others who have
owed to them the ineffable enjoyments both of body and soul." Wailly quotes the following:
"Dextram scriptoris benedicat mater honoris" ("May the mother of honour bless the writer's
right hand"). A very common ending is "Qui scripsit scribat semper cum Domino vivat" ("He who
wrote, let him write; may he ever live with the Lord"). Another: "Explicit expliceat. Bibere
scriptor eat" ("It is finished. Let it be finished, and let the writer go out for a drink").
Another ending is "Vinum scriptori reddatur de meliori" ("Let wine of the best be given to
the writer"). And again: "Vinum reddatur scriptori, non teneatur" ("Let wine be given to the
writer; let it not be withheld"). Here is the recompense wished for by a French monk: "Detur
pro penâ scriptori pulcra puella" ("Let a pretty girl be given to the writer for his pains,"
or "as a penance") The monks enjoyed puns, as "bibere," a common pun on "vivere." One writer
groans thus: "Scribere qui nescit, nullum putat esse laborem" ("Whoso knows not how to write,
thinks it is no trouble").

As time goes on, after the tenth century, it is noticeable that the more beautiful a manuscript
becomes in its writing the less accurate becomes its Latinity. And so the monks who once were
noted for learning, gradually lose their grip on Latin. The manuscripts executed in Benedictine
abbeys became inaccurate--almost illiterate. Faults of ignorance of words; misrendering of
proper names; blundering in the inept introduction of marginal notes and confounding such notes
with the text, showing that the heart of the copyist was not in his work nor his head capable
of performing it. His hand is simply a machine, which when it goes wrong does so without remorse
and without shame. So in the greater houses, men were appointed whose sole business was to
supervise the copyists--in fact, to supply the brains, while the scribe furnished the manipulation
of the pen. Even they, however, did not always succeed to perfection, as very few of them were
too well furnished with scholarship. There were not many Alcuins or Theodulfs in the twelfth
century. What they did usually keep free from serious error were the books used in their own
services. It was the aim, particularly among the Cistercian houses, to have their liturgical
texts absolutely without fault. In respect of illumination, there was a great quarrel between
the Abbey of Citeaux and that of Cluny. The great Abbey of Clugny (or Cluny) in ancient Burgundy
was founded in 910, and in the course of a century or obtained a degree of splendour, influence,
and prosperity unrivalled by any other mediæval foundation. It possessed enormous wealth and
covered Western Europe with its affiliated settlements. Under Peter the Venerable, when the
controversy began, it was the chief monastic centre of the Christian world. The words of Pope
Urban II., when addressing the community, were: "Ye are the light of the world."

The grand Basilica at Cluny was completed in 1131, and, until the erection of St. Peter's at
Rome, was the largest church in Christendom, and even then was only ten feet shorter than the
Roman edifice. The building is a masterpiece of architectural beauty and massiveness, being
with its narthex added by Abbat Roland de Hainaut, no less in length than 555 feet. The splendour
of the church, its gorgeous tombs and mausoleums, its huge coronals for lights of brass, silver,
and gold--the grand candelabrum before the altar, with its settings of crystal and beryl--the
mural painting of the cupola, and the general luxury and magnificence of the whole constituted
an unpardonable sin in the eyes of the stern and self-denying Cistercians. Hence arose long
disputes between the abbats of the two houses about tithes and other matters. Among the other
matters were included questions of candlesticks and bindings and gildings of books. The two
houses were long at variance on the right definition of luxury in living, and this variance
may to this day be observed in their separate and distinct styles, both of architecture and
the ornamentation of books. The use of gold was still continued in the older Benedictine abbeys,
but was long forbidden in the Cistercian, almost all the ornament of the latter being confined
to pen-drawing and the use of coloured inks. The employment of gold for the text of manuscripts
so common in the ninth century became rare in the eleventh. Only here and there do we hear
of such volumes. Where the gold lettering still lingers, it is confined to the first page or
two, and the same may be said of the purple vellum. A certain monk, Adémar, who died at Jerusalem
in 1034, wrote a Life of St. Martial of Limoges entirely in letters of gold; but it was quite
an exceptional volume. Another example occurs in an Evangeliary, which was probably a copy
of a ninth-century model, as at first glance it might be assigned to that age, but on closer
examination it is found that in one of the borders is a medallion bearing the name of the Emperor
Otho, showing that it cannot be later than the latter part of the tenth century. It is now
in the National Library at Paris.

Before speaking of Othonian illumination it may be well to refer to that of the Netherlands
in these earlier centuries.

The most ancient writings known in this district were charters and other documents, and the
pious effusion of the occupants of the monasteries, such as St. Amand, Lobbes, Stavelot, etc.

It was the revival of art and literature under Charlemagne that was the beginning of artistic
calligraphy, then followed the production of books outside the monasteries, classical authors,
chronicles, and mirrors of various sciences. In the eleventh century we find monastic books
and others of which the ornamentation is sometimes even splendid, such as Psalters, Evangeliaries,
Bibles, and Missals, glowing with gold and colours. Already the Abbeys of Stavelot and Liége
were high-class centres of production. St. Martin's of Tournay had a famous scriptorium also,
noted for the beauty of its writing and its grand initial letters. Immediately following St.
Martin's, the Abbeys of Gembloux, St. Bavon at Ghent, and others, produced or acquired MSS.
of the most sumptuous kind, and before the thirteenth century the Netherlands had established
quite a distinguished reputation.

In a later chapter we shall deal with the development of its remarkable schools, whose work
eventually took rank, not only among the most artistic, but the most prolific in Europe.

Perhaps the first departure towards a new style arising out of the elements of Carolingian
illumination is in the combination of the bird and serpent used for letter forms and continued
into coils of vine-stem and foliage in combination with golden panelled frames or pilasters.
The monsters thus produced seem to be a revival of the dracontine forms of the semi-barbarous
Celtic and early Frankish arts. But the difference in elegance and refinement of drawing and
beauty of colouring is very great indeed. Other animal forms are also made use of, nor is the
human figure altogether absent. Sometimes entire letters are made up of the latter in various
attitudes. Little scenes illustrative of the subject which the initial commences are often
placed within it, as, for instance, in the B of the first psalm.[19]

[19] A characteristic Othonian Evangeliary of the eleventh century, executed at the Abbey of
Stavelot, may be seen in the Royal Library at Brussels.

Many twelfth-century initials look like designs in metal-work placed on the panelled grounds
of coloured enamels. But the rapid development of the vine-stem coils out of the stemless foliages
of the Carolingian and Winchester styles is one of the wonders of the early German revival
after the accession of the Emperor Otho I. A still greater improvement takes place after the
marriage of his son Otho II. to the Princess Theophano, daughter of Romanus II., attributable,
no doubt, to a fresh accession of artistic enthusiasm from the home of the new Empress. In
point of elegance of design, beauty of curve, adaptation of every part to its share in the
composition, nothing could be finer than the initial letters of the Othonian period of illumination.
The year 963 introduced Greek fashions and Greek artists into Germany, the results of which
are at once traceable in the increased splendour of monastic illumination in that country.
The details of Greek ornament become the fillings of the frames and panels of the large initials.

The Cistercian illuminators, or rather calligraphers, while they constantly repudiate the golden
splendour and monstrous follies of their rivals, absolutely excel in this same ornamental draughtsmanship.
What, for example, could be finer than the pen-drawing of the great Arnstein Bible in the British
Museum (Harl. 2800)? The ornament is mostly in a red ink, with flat-coloured blue, green, or
yellow backgrounds, but it is not to be surpassed. No, the interlacements and coils, foliages
and panels of the twelfth century are absolutely among the finest examples of ornamental lettering
ever conceived. Illuminating seemed at this epoch to be more and more closely following the
details of contemporary architecture, and so paving the way to the next great variety of the
art, which is looked upon by some writers as the real beginning of mediæval illumination.

It must be admitted, however, that the excellence limits itself to the ornament. The human
figure is wretchedly incorrect--even barbarous. It may be asked why is this? How is it that
while the decorative portion of an illuminated book is beautiful in the highest degree, both
in line and colour, and yet occasionally the artist seems not to have the remotest idea of
the true shape of hands and feet or any part of the human body? Of course the usual explanation
offered is that monastic education did not permit the study of the nude, and hence the monkish
ignorance of figure drawing. But that is scarcely an excuse for the monstrous hands and feet
and exaggerated facial expression of the miniatures. The Italian monk Angelico, in spite of
his monastic limitations, succeeded in a most graceful rendering of the figure, and a charming
delicacy in the forms of the hands. As in some instances the artist does reach a fair standard,
it must be admitted that where he does not is owing to actual inability in himself and not
in his system. The three emperors who give the name of Othonian to the period immediately succeeding
the Carolingian ruled Germany, and had much to do with the ruling of Italy, from 936, when
Otho I., called the Great, succeeded Henry the Fowler about five years before the death of
Athelstan, whose sister Eadgyth[20] was Otho's first wife. His mother Mathilda was the patroness
of the cloister-schools for women, working in them personally. She herself taught her servants
and maids the art of reading. Her daughter Mathilda, the famous Abbess of Quedlinburg, in 969
persuaded the Abbat Wittikind of Corvey to write the History of the Saxon Kings, Henry her
father, and Otho her brother (now in the Royal Library at Dresden). Hazecha, the Treasury-mistress
of Quedlinburg, also employed the monks of Corvey, with whose beautiful initial drawing she
was greatly pleased, to illuminate her own Life of St. Christopher. The beautiful but imperious
Princess Hedwig, another of Otho's sisters, read Virgil with Ekkehard of St. Gall, and taught
the child Burchard Greek, while Otho's niece Gerberga, Abbess of Gandersheim, was the instructress
of the celebrated Hrosvita, "the oldest German poetess." And this reminds us that at this time
the women-cloisters of Germany and the Netherlands were among the most active centres of learning
and book-production. The great monument of feminine erudition and artistic skill, called the
"Hortus Deliciarum," was of a somewhat later time, but other examples still exist, among them
the beautiful Niedermünster Gospels of the Abbess Uota, now at Munich. A wood-cut by Albert
Dürer prefixed to the first edition of Hrosvita's works (Nürnberg, 1501) represents the nun
Hrosvita kneeling before the Emperor and beside the Archbishop Wilhelm of Mainz presenting
her book.[21] As to the literary labours of Hrosvita, this is not the place to discuss them.
She is simply an incidental figure in our view of the brilliant Court of the Othos. A MS. of
her works 500 years after her death was found among the dust of the cloister-library at St.
Emmeram of Regensburg by Conrad Celtis, and, as we have seen, printed for the first time in
1501. Thus she stands out as an illustration of the fact often alluded to, of the importance
of feminine foundations in the monastic scheme.

[20] The chroniclers are rather confused as to the name of this Princess.

[21] It is thought, however, by some that the figure behind is that of the Abbess--not the
Archbishop. See Dürer Soc. Portfolio for 1900.

Her picturesque story of the romantic adventures of Adelheid of Burgundy, her marriage in 947
to King Lothaire of Italy, her widowhood and perils, her misfortunes and eventual marriage
to the Emperor Otho, reads more like a chapter from the Morte d'Arthur or the Arabian Nights
than a veracious history of real people. The Empress Adelheid was, indeed, a remarkable woman,
and the nun of Gandersheim is full of her praises. In her younger days she had been a zealous
patron and protectress of the Abbey of Cluny, which stood on her native land of Burgundy, and
her sympathies remained always with the religious houses. In this respect, indeed, she was
a worthy successor of the pious Mathilda and her daughters. She died in her seventy-first year
in her Abbey of Selz in Elsass, leaving a memory rich in benefits to the monastics, especially
those of Cluny, and venerated as the patroness of many an illuminated volume of poems or theology,
not to mention the liturgical books executed at her expense for use in her various foundations.
The tenth century seems to have been an age of illustrious women. No sooner do we leave the
story of Adelheid than we enter upon that of the young wife of Otho II., the Empress Theophano,
daughter of the Greek Emperor, Romanus II. When little more than a child she was married to
the son of Adelheid, he himself being in his twentieth year in the year 972, and in the city
of Rome. The young Greek Princess who had been reared amid the luxury and splendour of the
Eastern capital at once became the fashion--the manners of her Byzantine household became those
of her Roman court, and were transplanted to her German home at Bamberg. Artists, limners,
copyists, musicians, scholars, formed part of her retinue, and at once the German Court became
the rival of those of England, Byzantium, Cordova, and Rome.

It was, indeed, a Renaissance, an awakening in literature, art, and social life. Nor did its
glory fade until eclipsed by the succeeding rivalries of France and Italy. Theophano survived
her husband, who died in 983, and proved herself a capable Regent during the infancy of her
son Otho III. She, however, did not live to see his early death, nor indeed to see that of
the aged Adelheid, who survived her eight years, and died in the same year (999) as Otho's
aunt, Matilda, Abbess of Quedlinburg.

The death of Otho III. in 1002 did not affect materially the steady advance of monastic art.
Bamberg, St. Gall, Corvey, Luxeuil, Bobbio, Monte Cassino continued their accustomed labours.
Under the Capetian Kings the French foundations maintained the reputations they had won during
the Carolingian times, while others were added from time to time throughout the Rhineland,
Limousin, and the South of France, where the Romanesque or Byzantine tastes had not yet penetrated,
and whose work therefore remained distinct from that of Italy and the German Empire.

Henry II. and the Empress Cunigunda made Bamberg the great centre of German art, and it is
to Bamberg, St. Gall, Luxeuil, Monte Cassino, and Magdeburg that we have to look for the finest
productions of the eleventh century. Among the earlier works of the Othonian period we may
mention the famous Gospel-book executed for the minister of Otho II., Egbert, Archbishop of
Trèves, and known as the Codex Egberti. It was written in 980 at Reichenau on the Lake of Constance
(or Bodensee, as it is locally known) by two monks, Kerald and Heribert, whose dwarfish figures
appear beneath that of the archbishop on the frontispiece. It contains fifty-seven illuminations
and several folios of violet parchment with golden ornaments and lettering. But its pictures
are rather remarkable, mostly the figures are too short and the limbs and extremities badly
drawn, but in some of the statelier personages the error is reversed and they are too tall--this
seems to be owing to Greek influence, while the Byzantine taste shows itself in the treatment
of the border-foliages. Beasts are unnatural--demons and swine are alike, both in form and
colour (Pub. Lib., Trèves).

An Evangeliary, formerly in the Cathedral Treasury at Bamberg, but now in the Royal Library
at Munich (Cimel. 58), is a good example of the kind of work that at first glance appears to
be actually Carolingian both in the figures, attitudes, and treatment of drapery, but which
on closer examination proves to be really due to the reign of Otho II. In this MS. the beginning
of St. Matthew contains four medallions--two of Henry I. (the Fowler), one of Otho I., his
son, and another of his grandson, Otho II. (Nat. Lib., Paris, Lat. 8851).

A still more notable MS. is kept in the Munich Library (Cimel. 58), containing a two-paged
picture of tributary cities bringing gifts to the Emperor Otho III. In the painting in this
MS., notwithstanding the exaggerated solemnity of expression, the faces are well drawn and
the features carefully modelled. The painting is in the Greek manner, as is also the general
character of the draperies. The small, ill-drawn feet are by no means comparable with the heads.

The Imperial crown is square, like those of the Magi in the Bremen MS. now in the Library of
Brussels, or like that of Baldwin as Emperor of Constantinople. In the several enthronements
which occur among the Imperial miniatures at Munich there are important and significant differences
which might not be noticed unless pointed out.

The changes in the shape and treatment of the orb, for instance, mean more than a mere advance
in enrichment, or an improvement in artistic skill. The difference indicates a change in political
usage. In the miniature of Charles it does not occur at all; in that of Otho III. it is a mere
symbol; in that of Henry II. it is the actual emblem of sovereignty presented by the Pope to
the Emperor, to be held by the latter in token of his investiture.

It was Selden's opinion that the orb, surmounted by the cross, never appears in western art
until the time of Henry II. Thus it is here one of the many seemingly insignificant details
which, in the miniature art of the Middle Ages, contribute to the elucidation of History.

The MS. just referred to (Munich, Cimel. 58) brings us most probably to the time of the third.
Otho, but it is really with his father's marriage to the Princess Theophano that the great
revival in the arts began, and the names of St. Bruno of Cologne and Augsburg, Gerbert, Bernward
of Hildesheim, Tuotilo, Salomon, Hartmut, Folchard, and Sintramn of St. Gallen, are, as it
were, points of light and centres of expanding circles of artistic skill. Bruno and Gerbert
are too well known to need any further remark. Bernward of Hildesheim, made bishop there in
992 by Theophano, and tutor to her son Otho III., "excelled no less in the mechanical than
in the liberal arts. He was an excellent penman, a good painter, and as a household manager
was unequalled." Such is Tangmar's tribute to his pupil's character. He was, indeed, an enthusiast
in painting, mosaic, and metal-work, and used to collect all the objects of art he could lay
hands on, to form a museum or studio for the instruction of a class of art students and workmen.
The collection was formed mainly out of the numerous presents brought to the young Emperor
from foreign, and especially Greek and Oriental, princes, and contained many examples of beautiful
metal-work and Greek illumination. His own Cathedral of Hildesheim was supplied with jewelled
service-books, in part at least the work of his own hand. The chalices and incense-burners
and the massive golden corona or candelabrum of the cathedral were also the productions of
his own workshops. The mural paintings, too, were executed by himself. His handiwork, so lovingly
described by his old schoolmaster Tangmar, may still be seen in Hildesheim, where visitors
to that quaint old Saxon city are told that the bronze gates of the cathedral and the jewelled
crucifix were placed there by the venerable bishop himself in 1015, while in the cathedral-close
rises a column adorned with bronze reliefs from the Life of Christ, authoritatively declared
to be the work of his own hands--let us say they came out of his own workshops, in the year
1022, nearly a thousand years ago. St. Bernward was canonised by Celestine III. in 1194. His
sarcophagus is in the crypt of the Basilica of St. Michael at Hildesheim. Of Tuotilo, the pupil
of Moengall (or Marcellus), it is said that he was physically almost a giant; just the man,
says his biographer, that you would choose for a wrestler. He was a good speaker, had a fine
musical voice, was a capital carver in wood, and an accomplished illuminator. Like most of
the earlier monks of St. Gallen, he was a clever musician, equally skilful with the trumpet
and the harp. And the charm about it all was that he was always cheerful and in excellent spirits,
and in consequence a general favourite. Nor is this all. Besides being teacher of music in
the upper school to the sons of the nobility, he was classical tutor, and could preach both
in Latin and Greek. His chief accomplishments, however, were music and painting, and on these
his reputation mainly rests. He composed songs, which, like an Irish bard, he sang to the harp--the
popular instrument of this Irish foundation. Being thus multifariously accomplished (he was,
by the way, an excellent boxer), he was much in request, and by the permission of his abbot
travelled to distant places. One of his celebrated sculptures was the image of the Blessed
Virgin for the cathedral at Metz, said to be quite a masterpiece. Nay, he was even a mathematician
and astronomer, and constructed an astrolabe or orrery, which showed the courses of the planets.

This allusion to the astrolabe reminds us that it was Abbat Hartmut of St. Gallen, who was
also an accomplished illuminator, who constructed a large map of the world--one of the extremely
few that until that time the world had ever seen.

St. Gallen and its artists, however, must not be permitted to monopolise our attention too
long. The reader must for the rest refer to Dr. Rahn and the writers whom he quotes. Sometimes
it is said that the illuminations of the eleventh century are proofs of the rapid decline of
art, and to demonstrate the fact that they are frankly hideous, some writers bring forward
instances such as the miniatures of a Missal, especially a Crucifixion, said to be at Paris,[22]
and a MS. at Berlin said to have been executed in the earlier days of the Franconian dynasty
(1034-1125) containing another Crucifixion, which, though not quite so horrible as the one
just referred to, is sufficiently bad. These miniatures are irredeemably barbaric and not in
any sense typical of the age. Such examples, in fact, can be found in any age and in any country.
Were they really representative of the best art of the time, there might be an excuse for their
reproduction, but they are not, and therefore no reliance can be placed on their evidence.

[22] Le Livre, etc., par M.P. Louisy, Paris, 1886, 8°, p. 79.

In the miniatures of MSS. executed for the Othos and Henrys of the early Saxon dynasty the
worst they can be charged with, as compared with the periods before and after them, is slavish
imitation. The portrait of Henry II. (Saint Henry, husband of Cunegunda) in MS. 40 at Munich
is by no means barbaric--it is more Greek than anything else--but it is down to the smallest
element of composition a direct imitation of the similar portrait of Charles the Bald in the
Emmeram Gospels. It is not a copy, for there is a significant difference in the attitudes of
the emperors. Henry holds a sceptre in his right hand and an orb in his left, like Otho III.
in the miniature already described, whereas Charles is empty handed. Then both on the Emperor's
head and on the smaller figures the crowns are different--the panelling of the Imperial canopy
is different, and, of course, there is a different inscription. Lastly, it may be said that
some of the differences are improvements. Another change is characteristic--Charles was beardless,
Henry has a pointed beard.

It is true this is an example belonging to the very brightest years of the Othonian revival.
But to pass over other Saxon MSS., there are extant examples from Evroul (when Roger de Warenne,
son of the great Earl of Surrey, practised as a scribe and illuminator on his retirement to
that monastery), St. Martin's of Tournay, St. Amand, Benedictbeuern, Lobbes, and Weissobrunn
could all boast accomplished calligraphers. The last establishment produced the celebrated
Diemudis, who, though a woman, was distinguished by a most extraordinary activity and skill.

Nor are these all that could be named, for by no means least among them we may quote Monte
Cassino, many of whose elegant productions have been published by the present occupants of
the monastery. Then the Greek miniaturists of the eleventh century are once more to the front.
The famous Slav Evangeliary of Ostromir (1056-67) shows us a MS. probably executed for a governor
of Novgorod, which contains by no means despicable work, whether in the figures of the evangelists
or the ornamental borders. Of course, in Greek MSS. we know pretty well what to expect; fairly
good ornament, rich details of embroidery, etc., wilfulness of colour in architecture, mannerism
in the attitudes and faces, but good, clever technic and bright gold.

Lastly, there is the celebrated Evangeliary given to San Benedetto of Mantua by the Countess
Matilda now in the Vatican, enriched with little miniatures from the Life of the Virgin, which
Lanzi declares surpass everything else he ever saw of the same period.

The Poitevin MS. at Poitiers, a biographical compilation of saints in honour of St. Radegonde,
though nothing wonderful, is worth recording as a transitional example just before the close
of the century. As an example of the latter part of a continual deterioration, it should be
worse than anything preceding. Yet it is not so. It is certainly heavy and rather dull, and
the drawing far from excellent, but it is also, on the other hand, far from "frankly horrible."
In introducing examples of other schools into this chapter the writer's object has solely been
to vindicate the illuminators of the eleventh century from the sweeping charge sometimes made
against them of absolute deterioration. Of the school directly under our notice, the charge
is certainly not true, and the wretched stuff cited in support of it can only be looked upon
as accidental salvages of no artistic value whatever.

In proof that the book-work of the eleventh century was not all worthless, we may refer to
just one example. It is a MS. consisting of but a few fragments executed at Luxeuil under Abbat
Gerard II. The remains are such as to cause regret for the loss of the rest. On one page Christ
is shown seated on a rich sella covered with an embroidered cushion in the manner of the consular
diptychs. He is clothed in a pale yellow tunic, over which is worn a purple pallium with a
white border. He is beardless, and his brown hair is kept close to the head and neck, and falls
over the shoulders. The feet are nude and by no means ill-drawn. Surrounding the head is a
cruciform nimbus enclosed in a circle--both cross and circle being pale green, the latter outlined
with red. The chief fault of the head is the excessive length of the nose and the wide stare
of the eyes. The right arm is raised somewhat as in the St. Sernin Evangeliary, but with the
palm outwards, and much superior in drawing.

The whole figure is painted on, or at least surrounded by, a golden background--so far indicating
the Byzantine origin of the design. It is enclosed in a cusped aureola formed of several coloured
bands of green, violet, and rose. This shows German taste. Eight circlets or medallions surround
this figure of Christ, four of which contain the symbols of the evangelists; the other four--Isaiah,
Daniel, Ezechiel, and Jeremiah. All hold portions of the band which connects them, and on which
appears a series of inscriptions in Latin. These consist of passages from the Vulgate.

The whole picture is placed in a square frame consisting of bands of various colours and gold
outlined in red. The inner ground is chiefly blue, and the names of the prophets and evangelists
are painted on it in white Roman capitals. Taken altogether it is a very splendid page, but
even this is surpassed in gorgeous richness of ornament by the miniature of St. Mark. And the
borders of other pages in this Luxeuil fragment are full of ornament, giving the impression
that the work was imitated from that of the goldsmith and enameller. The figures and symbols
of the evangelists in these early Gospel texts are fully explained after St. Jerome by Alcuin,
whose revision of the Vulgate forms the text of the Durham Book already referred to.

The "Manual" shortly to be mentioned differs somewhat in its explanation of these symbols.
The curious combination called the "Tetra morph" is a compound of the four attributes or symbols
into a single figure, to signify that the four evangelists give only one gospel, and ought
not to be separated. It occurs frequently in Greek, but only seldom in Latin or Western iconography.[23]

[23] On this figure see Annales Archéologiques, tom.

About the twelfth century comes forward the mention of a certain manual minutely detailing
every process of painting, and laying down rules for the due composition and arrangement of
every subject to be represented in the sacred history and other books connected with divine
service. How long such a manual had been in use is unknown, but it is thought that something
of the kind must have existed from the time, at least, of Justinian, perhaps earlier. The manual
here referred to was found by M. Didron at Sphigmenou, on Mt. Athos. This little monastery
is said to have been founded by the Empress Pulcheria, sister of the Emperor Theodosius the
Younger. She died in the year 453. Theodosius, it may be remembered, was himself an admirable
penman and illuminator, so much so as to have acquired the cognomen of Kalligráphos.

The monastery is built in a narrow valley by the seaside, between three little hills, and as
it were "squeezed" in, and hence its name (in Greek σφιγμένος), which describes its situation
exactly. It is occupied by about thirty unusually neat and orderly monks, who are justly proud
of the few relics and curiosities which they exhibit to visitors. It was at Sphigmenou that
Curzon saw the piece of ancient jewellery set with diamonds and a Russian or Bulgarian MS.
of the Gospels.

The book which M. Didron found there is the copy of an older MS. which, it is said, was copied
by Dionysius, one of the monks, from the works of the once celebrated master, Manuel Panselines
of Thessalonica, who was the Giotto of the Byzantine school and flourished in the twelfth century.
If by works the monk meant literary, it is most likely that it was the transcript of a still
older document. If by works Dionysius meant paintings, it is a manual of his practice. One
of his pupils, in order to propagate the art of painting which he had learnt at Thessalonica,
writes down the series of subjects to be taken from the Bible, so as to epitomise the divine
scheme of salvation, and describes the manner in which the events of the Old Testament, and
the miracles and parables of the New, ought to be represented. He mentions the scrolls and
inscriptions (such as we noticed in the Gospels of Luxeuil) belonging to each of the prophets
and evangelists, with the names and characteristics of the principal saints in the order of
the menologium or martyrology, and then goes on to direct how the subjects should be arranged
on the walls and cupolas of the churches.

The Manual of Dionysius is an abstract of this wide scheme, but is still very comprehensive.
The copy of it seen by Didron was one belonging to a monk of Sphigmenou named Joasaph, who
was himself a painter. It was "loaded with notes added by himself and his master, which in
course of time would be incorporated, according to immemorial custom, in the text." In this
way, indeed, the Manual has grown to what it is at present. A transcript of it may probably
be found in every monastery belonging to the Greek Church. Another monk named Macarios, also
a painter, had a fine copy of it laid open in his atelier, and his pupils read from it in turn,
whilst the rest painted according to its directions. For the scheme itself we must refer the
reader to the second volume of Didron's Christian Iconography, p. 193. Unfortunately the transcriber
did not think it of sufficient importance or relevancy to copy the first part, as being purely
technical and dealing merely with the art of painting. The scheme, therefore, only contains
the part relating expressly to iconography. It is to be regretted, too, that this part also
has been in some places considerably abridged, as dealing with Greek art and martyrology more
copiously than, it was thought by the translator, would be interesting to English readers.
There are numerous good and reliable introductory works dealing with early Christian art, besides
the greater treatises to which the student who wants to pursue this line of research shall
be directed later on. But there is another of these original manuals to which we must call
attention, as especially dealing with the practice of monastic artists in the twelfth and following
centuries.

The one to which we now refer is quite distinct from the Greek Manual which we just mentioned,
and by way of contrast may be called the Latin Manual as being originally composed in that
language. Moreover, as the Greek Manual formed the guide and vade mecum of all the painters
of the Greek Church, so this Latin one became the indispensable monitor in all Latin foundations.
Its origin was German, and said to be the compilation of a Benedictine monk who is variously
spoken of as Rutgerius, Rugerius, Rotkerius, etc., and assigned by different editors and critics
to either the eleventh, twelfth, or thirteenth centuries. Probably we shall not be far wrong
in placing him about the middle of the twelfth. The treatise is known as Diversarum Artium
Schedula, and the compiler of it calls himself simply Theophilus presbiter humilis, which,
of course, records nothing but his personal modesty.

It was at first attributed to Tuotilo of St. Gallen. This opinion was put forward by Lessing,
but it had no foundation whatever beyond the fact of Tuotilo's well-known versatility.[24]
Besides, Tuotilo lived in the ninth century. But really the question of attributions does not
concern us here. It matters little who he was outside the Treatise, and certainly we shall
not discuss the question further. It is with the Treatise that we are concerned. We shall simply
call the author Theophilus, and his work the Compendium. Let us turn to it at once.

[24] Tuotilo was renowned throughout all Germany as painter, architect, preacher, professor,
musician, calligrapher, Latinist, Hellenist, sculptor, and astronomer.

The Compendium, which is thus known to contain the working methods of all the monastic illuminators,
mosaicists, glass painters, enamellers, and so forth, throughout Germany, Lombardy, and France,
consists of three books, containing altogether one hundred and ninety-five chapters of definite
and special instructions in artistic matters. Book I., comprising forty chapters, treats of
the preparation, mixture, and use of colours for wall-painting, panel, and parchment, i.e.
for the decoration of churches, furniture, and books. It contains some most curious and valuable
instructions for the employment of gold, silver, and other metals in the decoration of MSS.;
how it should be applied; whether in leaf or as an ink; how raised and burnished, down to the
minutest details of practice; how colours are to be tempered (i.e. mixed); what media or temperings
are best for each colour, according to the surface to which it is to be applied. Such is the
Compendium. We need not, therefore, wonder at its popularity and the estimation in which it
was held.

Thirty-one chapters on glass, glass painting, enamelling, etc., form a second book, and the
third and last book contains some hundred and twenty-four chapters on gold and silver work--the
art of the goldsmith--in cups, chalices, vases, candelabra, shrines, and so on. It is the first
book that is of most interest to us, and had we space we would have liked to quote from its
pages. But as it is we can only refer the reader to the work itself. It is to be met with in
various forms and editions. First, we recommend the English translation by Robert Hendrie.
The oldest MS. of the work is one of the twelfth century in the Library at Wolfenbüttel. The
next is in the Imperial Library at Vienna. Fragments of other copies exist in several other
public libraries, but the completest copy known is that in the Harl.[25] Collection of the
British Museum used by Hendrie as the basis of his translation (8°, 1847).

[25] 1 Harl. MS. 3915.

It was, as we have said, in the eleventh and twelfth centuries especially that the great abbeys
were founded. And it cannot be too clearly stated that the principal abbatial churches--those
most splendid monuments of architecture whose structure and dimensions are still the admiration
of the most cultured critics, and in which all the rules of art were so marvellously applied--were
the work of simple monks. The great Church of St. Benignus at Dijon (so often spoken of by
writers on Burgundian art) was built in 1001, under Abbat William, assisted by a young monk
named Hunaldus. The period between 1031 and 1060 saw the creation of the grand abbatial Church
of St. Remi at Reims. In the words of the Comte de Montalembert: "From the very beginning of
the Monastic Orders St. Benedict had provided in his Rule that there should be artists in the
monasteries. He had imposed on the exercise of their art only one condition--humility." Hence
it is that all we know of the author of the Compendium from himself is "humilis presbiter Theophilus."
For the same reason Tuotilo and Folchard and Sintramn and the rest are never anxious to put
their names upon their work. For the same reason the occurrence of an artist's name in a monastic
MS. is quite exceptional and unexpected. The foresight of St. Benedict "was accomplished and
his law faithfully fulfilled." The Benedictine monasteries soon possessed not only libraries
but ateliers, where architecture, painting, mosaic, sculpture, metal-chasing, calligraphy,
ivory carving, gem-setting, book-binding, and all the branches of ornamentation were studied
and practised with equal care and success, without interfering in the least with the exact
and austere discipline of the foundation. The teaching of these various arts formed an essential
part of monastic education. "The greatest and most saintly abbeys were precisely those most
renowned for their zeal in the culture of Art. St. Gallen in Germany, Monte Cassino in Italy,
Cluny in France, were for centuries the mother-cities of Christian Art." And after the establishment
of the reformed colony at Citeaux, the Cistercian Order became the one above all others which
has left the most perfect edifices, and if the Cistercian illumination may not claim the splendour
of some contemporary examples, it often excels them in soundness of design and severe correctness
of execution.

In saying that all this kind of work was executed by monks, we are speaking literally. The
monks were not only the architects, but also the masons, and even the hodmen of their edifices.
Nor were the superiors in this respect different from their humble followers. Whilst ordinary
monks were often the architects-in-chief of the constructions, the abbats voluntarily accepted
the rôle of labourers. During the building of the Abbey of Bee, in 1033, the founder and first
abbat, grand-seigneur though he was, worked as a common mason's labourer, carrying on his back
the lime, sand, and stones necessary for the builder. This was Herluin. Another Norman noble,
Hugh, Abbat of Selby in Yorkshire, when, in 1096, he rebuilt in stone the whole of that important
monastery, putting on the labourer's blouse, mixed with the other masons and shared their labours.
Monks, illustrious by birth, distinguished themselves by sharing the most menial occupations.
It is related of Roger de Warenne that when he retired to Evroul, he took up quite a serious
rôle of this kind in cleaning the shoes of the brethren, and performing other offices which
a mere cottager would have probably considered degrading.

Occasionally in our school histories we come across the mention of a man like Dunstan, of whom
it is related as a wonderful thing that he was at the same time a metal worker, architect,
and calligrapher; but monastic biographies abound in such instances. We have already quoted
several. "The same man was frequently," says Montalembert, "architect, goldsmith, bell-founder,
miniaturist, musician, calligrapher, organ builder, without ceasing to be theologian, preacher,
litterateur, sometimes even bishop, or intimate counsellor of princes."[26]

[26] "L'Art et les Moines," Ann.

In the chapter on Othonian art we saw how the ornamentation of books was drawn away from the
great French centres, and began to take a new departure from the various leading cities of
Germany, such as Bamberg, which the Othos had made their capital. Whilst the decline, which
was the inevitable consequence of a personal government like that of Charlemagne, took place
in France, it was but natural that the new artistic movement at Bamberg should become the fashion,
and Germany predominant in art, as she was in politics. In the twelfth century the German Empire
was the principal power in Europe. France, Italy, England, and Spain were all more or less
secondary. Italy, however, was already on the alert. She was initiating certain movements in
social life that must soon withdraw the cultivation of all the arts from the control of the
monasteries. At the same time the love of learning and personal accomplishments of the second
and third Othos and (St.) Henry II. soon prepared the Imperial Court to become as brilliant
as classical scholarship and artistic skill of the highest class could make it.

The wave of Byzantine influence which had passed over Germany by the time of Henry II. had
immensely benefited the Germans. We notice it especially in the miniatures of the Gospel-books.
The technic is much more masterly, the painting really methodical in soundly worked body-colour
with a delicate sense of harmony, and showing no longer that coarse handling and slovenliness
of execution that marks some of the Carolingian miniatures. In the figure a sense of proportion
has been gained, the tendency, perhaps, being rather to excessive tallness, as compared with
the thick-set proportions of the Carolingian work. Again, expression is improved--the faces
are more intellectual--not beautiful but strong, and quite superior to the utterly expressionless
faces of the Carolingian type.

Take, for example, that fine Missal now at Munich (Cimel. 60--Lat. 4456), in which St. Henry,
who is bearded, receives his crown from a bearded Christ, his arms being upheld by two bishops,
Ulrich of Augsburg and Emmeram of Regensburg, the two great saints of Bavaria. We know these
to be the personages represented, because two inscriptions tell us so. To the one supporting
the King's right hand: "Huius VODALRICVS cor regis signet et actus." To the other: "EMMERANVS
ei faveat solamine dulci." The Christ is seated on a rainbow within a cusped aureola or "amande"
of several bands of different colours, on the central one being inscribed in a mixture of Greek
and Latin characters--one of the new fashions brought in by the Greek revival:

    "Clemens XPE tuo longum da vivere XPIC to:
     Ut tibi devotus non perdat temporis usus."

Some writers have thought this to be a picture of the Emperor's apotheosis, and that the crown
is that of Life or Immortality; but such is certainly not the import of the above verses.

    "O gentle Christ give to thy Christ long to live
     That devoted to Thee he may not lose the use of time."

Besides, two angels on either side Christ precipitately bestow on the Emperor the spear and
sword of a temporal sovereignty. Round the Emperor are the words: "Ecce coronatur divinitus
atque beatur. Rex pius Heinricus proavorum stirp(e) polosus," all which can scarcely refer
to anything but his German Empire.

The expression, "give to thy Christ," is an allusion to the Hebrew usage of calling the king
the "anointed" or the "Christ."

Besides the interest possessed by this MS. as a monument of the art of its own time, it has
a special value resting in the fact that its illuminations were copied from the famous Emmeram
Golden Gospels of Charles the Bald, written by Linthard and Berenger, and sent as a present
to Regensburg. Another illumination in it, representing the enthronement of the Emperor, is
extremely interesting as showing how the later artist renders the work of the earlier one.
The general composition is precisely the same, the lower figures in the same attitudes and
bearing the same insignia. But in the details of costume, and in the significant position of
the Emperor, there are alterations. In the miniature of the Emmeram Gospels the two angels
above are simply winged messengers of the usual biblical type; in the Missal they are cloaked
and crowned and bear horns in their hands. In the older MS. the two crowned figures with horns
on either side wear simple mural crowns; in the later one they are regal like those of the
Emperor. The details also of the canopies are different. But the remarkable difference is that
while Charles the Bald is beardless and bears nothing in his hands, merely sitting as if addressing
an assembly, Henry II. holds in his right hand a sceptre and in his left an orb and cross.
Here is a distinctly new feature with a meaning. Here are the symbols of authority in the Emperor's
own hands, and not merely in those of his attendants.[27] These two MSS. are worthy of careful
study.

[27] See p. 92.

In another Missal in the library at Bamberg is a miniature of the Emperor presenting the book
to the Virgin. In the great Evangeliary presented by the Emperor Henry II. to the Cathedral
of Bamberg there is a grand picture of the Emperor and his consort the famous saint Cunegunda
being crowned by Christ, with SS. Peter and Paul standing at the sides. Here also, as in the
Carolingian MS. already mentioned, are the nations bringing tribute, but not in the same order.
Here Germany stands upright between two figures of Gaul and Rome, while six others appear simply
as busts (Munich, Cimel. 60. 4456).

The twelfth century was clearly much given to symbolism and allegory, as shown in apocalyptic
commentaries and similar works. A very remarkable "Apocalypse" is that in the library of the
Marquis d'Astorga. The latter is remarkably rich in pictures, which have been described by
M.A. Bachelin of Paris. The drawing in these pictures reminds one of the bas-reliefs of the
campaigns of Hadrian and Trajan and other work of the early Roman centuries. One hundred and
ten miniatures of uncommon interest constitute the illustrations, many of which are perfect
curiosities of symbolism, depicting not only the four figures of the evangelists, but the mysteries
of the seals and vials, serpents, beasts, etc., on yellow, red, green, blue, and brown backgrounds.
The draperies in some of the miniatures show Byzantine teaching, but with the grandiose style
of the early Roman times. The MS. it might be compared with of the twelfth century is the "Hortus
Deliciarum" of the Abbess Herrade. This latter MS., which unfortunately was burnt with many
other treasures during the siege of Strassburg by the Germans in 1870, was a veritable treasury
of mediæval customs, furniture, and costumes, illustrating a medley of encyclopædic information
for the use of the nuns and secular students of the Abbey of Hohenburg in Alsace. The good
abbess called her book a "Garden of Delights."

It is known that it dated from 1159, as that date and also the date of 1175 occurred in its
pages. We do not know whether the authoress was also the illuminatrix, but at any rate she
directed the illumination. Their style is of the same type as that of the Apocalypse just spoken
of, somewhat monumental as figures of the Liberal Arts, allegorical figures of the virtues
and vices, and the syrens as symbols of sensual temptation. There was a figure of the Church
riding upon a beast with the four heads of the evangel-symbols--the sun and moon in chariots
as in the classical mythology, and scenes of warfare, marriage festivities, banquets, everything
indeed depicting the life of contemporary persons.[28] The drawing and treatment generally
is of no very skilful kind--the colouring bright and in body-colour. Draperies as usual much
folded and fluttering, and the heads generally of the calm expression of the later French school,
but the action sometimes very spirited.

[28] For a copious and exhaustive account of the "Hortus," see "Het Gildeboek," Utrecht, 1877,
v. i. Also Engelhardt, Herrad v. H., etc., 8°, with atlas of twelve plates, 1818.

The title began thus: "Incipit hortus deliciarum, in quo collectis floribus scripturarum assidue
jucundetur turmula adolescentularum." In the Rhytmus came the lines:--

             "Salve cohors virginum
              Hohenburgensium
              Albens quasi lilium
              Amans dei filium

              Herrat devotissima
              Tua fidelissima
              Mater et ancillula
              Cantat tibi cantica

              Sic et liber utilis
              Tibi delectabilis
              Et non cesses volvere
              Hanc in tuo pectore."

In the Netherlands, which mostly at this time lay within the boundary of Lotharingia or Lorraine,
the style of illumination was much the same as in other German districts. Gospel-books and
Psalters, however, exhibit features somewhat akin to English work.

In the eleventh and twelfth centuries the continental methods prevail in more solid painting
and less penwork.

Of the twelfth-century work of Germany examples are exceedingly numerous, stretching over every
province from West to East, as Westphalia, the Palatinate, Burgundy, Switzerland and Bavaria,
extending even into Bohemia. An Evangeliary in the University Library at Prag agrees altogether
with those of Germany.

Towards the middle of the twelfth century, with the accession of the House of Hohenstaufen
(1138, etc.), arose a new style, since called Romanesque, of which many examples are to be
found in various libraries. It is not very easy to select the most typical examples, but one
good and typical MS. is found in a Gospel-book at Carlsruhe, which contains some capital miniatures
of this most thoroughly German style.

Under Frederick Barbarossa, as under the Caroling Emperors and the Othos, we may note a wave
of new life, especially in Saxony. A contrast as regards artistic ability to the "Hortus Deliciarum"
is the Gospel-book executed for Henry the Lion at the convent of Helmershausen, once in the
Cathedral Library at Prag, and bought by King George of Hanover.[29] In the page of the Eusebian
Canons we see features which take us across the plains of Lombardy to the doors of S. Michele
of Pavia, and to the churches of Venice. The columns rest on crouching animals. Allegorical
figures are introduced striving with each other as in the later Gothic illuminations. A half-nude
figure of Faith vanquishes the champion of Paganism. On the dedication page sits the Madonna
with SS. John Baptist and Bartholomew, and below them the patron saints of Brunswick, Blaize,
and Egidius leading forth the Duke and his wife, Mathilda. It may indeed be called a splendid
book. Among the rest of the pictures, some of them within richly decorated borders, occurs
the usual representation of the Duke and his Duchess receiving crowns. The figures are well
drawn, even elegant, the draperies good, and the colouring skilful.

[29] See F. Culemann in Neue hannov. Zeitung, 1861, Nos. 22-4.

One of the many characteristic MSS. of this period to be seen in continental libraries is the
"Mater Verborum" of the monk Conrad, of Scheyern in Bavaria, a noted scribe, illuminator, goldsmith,
and grammarian. The subject is one that scarcely gives promise of lending itself to pictorial
illustration, but after the successful attempts of Theodulf we may be prepared for anything
in the way of diagram and symbol. Imagine a dictionary in which not only actual objects are
pictorially represented, but also abstract terms. Music, philosophy, virtues and vices illustrated
by historical instances--sacred subjects treated in the manner of the glass painters which
is so commonly found in German and French work of this period.

Of twelfth-century illumination in general it may be said that it shows a marked effort towards
true artistic design and subtle beauty of linear outline. Some of the noblest curve-drawing,
with rich and massive grouping of foliages, is to be found in the ornamental initials and dignified
border designs presented on the later examples of the century, and it is very interesting to
observe the rapid pace at which the climax is reached in mere calligraphic ornament after the
opening of the Gothic period. Initials become smaller but exquisitely drawn, and reasonable
expression takes the place of the senseless stare or grotesque exaggeration of attitude and
feature which detract from the artistic value of all preceding efforts. To conclude our list
of German illuminations of purely monastic production, we will bring forward one more example
of women's work, which whether as regards its curious illustrations of symbolism, or its richly
foliaged geometrical backgrounds and borders, is one of the most interesting MSS. in any collection.
It is the Evangeliary of the Abbess Uota, or perhaps, rather, Tuota of Niedermünster, a lady
of the House of the Counts of Falckenstein (1177-80); or of Utta, abbess from 1009 to 1012,
but more probably the former. Another, Tutta, ruled the abbey from 920 to 934, and still another
1239-42. This precious MS., which Cahier has very fully described as the "Manuscrit du Niedermuenster
de Ratisbonne," is now in the Royal Library at Munich (Cimel. 35). Some writers, in speaking
of it, have classed it among the MSS. of the eleventh century, but it is too refined and too
well done for that period, and, indeed, that it belongs to the latter part of the twelfth is
almost proved from the work itself. Perhaps it was the profusion of inscriptions or legends
placed all over the miniatures that gave the idea of its belonging to the eleventh century.
In this respect the MS. certainly resembles the Evangeliary of Luxeuil already described. The
miniature of the Crucifixion is very remarkable. Besides the figure of Christ showing a return
to the primitive Syriac idea,[30] instead of the figures as usual of Mary and John, here are
given allegorical figures of Life and Death. (Cf. Fest. in exaltatione sce crucis. Ad Laudes,
14th Sept.). Perhaps the best commentary on these old figures is the "Biblia Pauperum," as
it is commonly called, or as it should be called, the Bible of the poor preachers. It also
has the old allegories and inscriptions rendered into later forms.

[30] Cf. the Rabula MS. at Vienna.

As for the texts or inscriptions, they would require a commentary to themselves--not to speak
of translations and remarks upon the calligraphy. One of these remarkable miniatures may be
described, as it depicts the presentation of the volume to the Madonna. Our Lady in the centre
of the design is seated on a Byzantine sedile with the infant Jesus on her knees. She is crowned,
and has the nimbus, and appears as if intended to represent the glory of the Church. Her hand
is raised as in the act of teaching. Christ, also, has the nimbus, but with the cross upon
it, and raises his hand in the attitude of benediction. In the tympanum of the semicircle over
the Madonna, written in letters of gold on purple, surrounded by the word "Sancta" in ordinary
ink, is the monogram of Maria, having a small sun and moon above it, and other inscriptions,
partly Latin, partly Greek. Below the Madonna, on the left, stands the abbess, her knees slightly
bent, holding up her book, and clothed in the costume of her Order, but coloured, no doubt,
simply for artistic reasons. Thus she wears a blue veil and a claret-coloured robe. In the
reversed semicircle before her is another monogram, Uota or Tuota, a name which perhaps may
be translated Uta, Utta, Ida, etc. It has been said already who she is likely to have been.
It does not follow, of course, that she herself wrote or illuminated the book she is presenting,
but judging from similar instances, as e.g. Herrade of Landsberg and Hrosvita of Gandersheim,
she may have done so.

Still the work looks technically too masterly for anyone not a trained artist to have done.
In the corners are small quadretti, containing busts of the four cardinal virtues:--Prudence,
Justice, Temperance, and Fortitude; and in circlets in the centre of each border are Faith,
Hope, and Charity, the latter twice, at top and bottom. A number of extraordinary beasts fill
up little niches in the design, which may possibly be also symbolical, but possibly also nothing
but artistic fancies. The other miniatures we must pass over. Nevertheless those representing
the four evangelists are worth examination;[31] the ornamentation being especially rich and
elaborate. Let us now turn our attention to a new element--a new spirit we might term it--which
was manifesting itself in Italy and France. We cannot too strongly insist upon the fact that
whatever appears in illumination has appeared first in architecture and its auxilliary arts.
Now we have to see how this fact begins to change almost entirely the character of the ornamentation
of books. During the latter part of the twelfth century, when precisely we cannot say, nor
where, a new form of architecture began to show itself. This new style, laying aside both the
classic cornice and the Romanesque arch, makes use of a new vertical principle of construction,
called in French the ogive or arch, composed of two sections only, instead of the whole semicircle.
By some fatality, of which no exact explanation can be given, English writers have given this
new style the name of Gothic. Scores of cathedrals throughout Europe are called Gothic cathedrals,
whereas in all probability, if we exclude Sweden, there is only one really Gothic building
in the world, that is the Tomb of Theodoric at Ravenna, and none of the so-called Gothic cathedrals
are in the least like it. As to the invention itself, it has been claimed by almost every nationality
in Europe. There can be no doubt that accidentally, or otherwise, the pointed arch had been
used often enough without any idea of its adoption as a principle of construction even in ancient
buildings. The famous gate at Mycœne is one instance. This is not the place to discuss the
question, so we let it pass. We could point out long and elaborate arguments intended to prove
that it originated in England--that it originated in France--in Germany.[32] Possibly they
may all be right in a sense, for most probably the origin was not in any particular locality,
but in the religious spirit of the time. It was a general revival of the Church itself that
was its cause. If any special locality has more reason on its side than another, it is probably
France, but as we say, that is not an essential point. It must suffice us here that it arose,
and that by the end of the twelfth century it was a fact. And the remarkable part about it
is that it was by the influence of lay artists and especially of the freemasons that it became
the accepted architecture of Christendom.

[31] For more about them, see Cahier, Mélanges d'Archéologie, etc.

[32] Not to mention theories, which are endless.

We have now reached the parting of the ways. The study of Nature is fast superseding the dogmas
of the monastic code, and what some writers have characterised as the hieratic is giving way
to the naturalistic treatment of art. Like the pointed architecture itself, it is an outcome
of the spirit of the age. Exactly when it begins we cannot say. As in the physical sciences,
our limits are necessarily somewhat arbitrary to suit our convenience in classification. We
take the beginning of the thirteenth century as a convenient dividing line between old and
new. We accept it as the boundary between the artistic sway of the East and South--and that
of the West and North--between the lifeless fetters of prescription and the living freedom
of invention. The contrast between the two is very strongly marked. The soft and curling foliages
of the sunny South are for a season giving way to the hard and thorny leafage of the wintry
North. It would seem as if pointed architecture began with the hard and frozen winter of its
existence, and if it had been the plan or design of one individual we might have accepted this
peculiarity as part of the scheme, and all that followed as a natural consequence and development.
But it is curious that as a system worked out by many minds pointed architecture should thus
begin. First come thorns and cusps and lanceolate forms without foliage. Then, not perfect
leaves, but buds. In due time the bud opens, at first into the profile coil, and by-and-by
into the full-spread leaf. Then comes the flower, and finally the fruit. After that, rottenness
and decay. It is curious that this should actually take place through a course of centuries.
That it should be reflected in book illumination is simply the usual order of things--the fact
has been frequently observed, and as it is curious, we call attention to it. But, as we have
said, the great change itself was brought about by the influence of lay artists, and chiefly
by the freemasons.

Who and what the freemasons were everybody is supposed to know, but on inquiry we find very
few people indeed know anything definite about them. Of course we do not refer to the friendly
societies or social guilds that now bear the name, but to the mediæval builders. "Everybody
knows," says Batissier,[33] "that the study of the sciences and of literature and the practice
of the various branches of art took refuge in the monasteries during the irruptions of the
barbarians and the strife of international war. In those retreats, not only painting, sculpture,
engraving on metals, and mosaic, but also architecture were cultivated. If the question arose
about building a church, it was nearly always an ecclesiastic who furnished the plan and monks
who carried out the works under his direction. The brethren in travelling from convent to convent
naturally exercised a reciprocal influence over each other. We conceive, then, that the abbeys
of any given Order would put in vogue the same style, and that the art would be modified under
certain points of view, in the same manner in each country."

[33] Hist. de l' Art Monumental, p. 466, Paris, 1845, I. 8°.

"It is certain, moreover, that outside the cloisters there were also troops of workmen not
monastics, who laboured under the direction of the latter."

"Masons were associated among them in the same way as other trade corporations. It was the
same with these corporations in the South as with the communes--the débris of the Roman organisation;
they took refuge in the Church, and had arrived at a condition of public life and independence,
when order was established between the commune, the Seignory, and the Church."

"During the twelfth and thirteenth centuries these corporations were organised into recognised
fraternities having their own statutes, but there is abundant evidence of their having a much
earlier existence."

"A great number of masons were trained in Italy, and came from Lombardy, which in the tenth
century even was an active centre of civilisation. Italy had its corporations of masons called
maestri comaccini, enjoying exclusive privileges, who, having passed the different degrees
of apprenticeship, became 'accepted'[34] masons, and had the right of exercising their profession
wherever they might be. The sovereigns of different countries granted them special privileges,
and the popes protected them in all Catholic countries where they might travel. Thus the lodges
grew and prospered. The Greek artists who had fled from Constantinople during the various Iconoclast
persecutions had got themselves enrolled in the ranks of the freemasons, and taught their fellow-masons
their Byzantine methods."

[34] German "angenommen."

"Speedily these corporations spread through France, England, and Germany, where they were employed
almost exclusively by the religious Orders, in building their churches and conventual buildings."

While, therefore, the general plan and rules of construction were common to all members of
the fraternity, the details were almost entirely left, under regulations, to the individual
taste of certain members of each band of workmen, who, being all qualified artists, were quite
capable of putting in execution, and with masterly skill, any such minutiæ of ornament as might
be left to their discretion.[35] Local illuminators would thus speedily get hold of every novelty,
and the page of the Psalter or Bible would become, as a French writer has explained it, a vitrail
sur velin. If not indeed exclusively following the stained glass, they copied the mural decorations,
and so we find the backgrounds of the miniatures, whether fitted into the initials or placed
separately in framed mouldings, faithfully reproducing the imbrications, carrelages, panellings,
and diapers of these mural enrichments.

[35] Governor Pownall ("Observations on the Origin and Progress of Gothic Architecture, and
on the Corporation of Freemasons," Archæologia, 1788, vol. 9, pp. 110-126) was of opinion that
"the Collegium or Corporation of Freemasons, were the first formers of Gothic architecture
into a regular and scientific order by applying the models and proportions of timber framework
to building in stone," and that this method "came into use and application about the close
of the twelfth or commencement of the thirteenth century." See also Gould (R.F.), History of
Freemasonry, vol. i. p. 259, note. "Without going so far as to agree with Governor Pownall
that the Freemasons invented Gothic, it may be reasonably contended that without them it could
not have been brought to perfection, and without Gothic they would not have stood in the peculiar
and prominent position that they did, that there was mutual indebtedness, and while without
Freemasons there would have been no Gothic...without Gothic the Freemasons would have formed
but a very ordinary community of trades unionists."

To select an example of Gothic illumination which shall exemplify the earliest features of
the pointed style is not an easy matter, notwithstanding the number of thirteenth-century MSS.
which still exist in public collections. In the National Library at Paris are several such
MSS. One that decidedly marks the change from the German work hitherto in vogue is the Psalter
of St. Louis (Nat. Lib., Paris., Lat. 10525), which contains nearly eighty small, delicately
executed miniatures. It was completed about 1250. Its noticeable features are a vastly improved
dexterity in draughtsmanship, which displays a refined certainty of touch, enabling the artist
to express his intention with unhesitating freedom. The drawing thus produced in outline is
filled in with flat tints of body-colour, without gradation or any attempt at brush-work shading.
Whatever finishing in this respect might be thought necessary was added with the pen. Nothing
could show more clearly that it is simply and frankly imitative of stained glass. As in the
glass the black outline is left for definition. No colour is used on hands of faces except
a slight touch of red on the cheeks and lips. The prevailing colours are rich blue and bright
scarlet. Perhaps the illuminator would have been better advised had he neglected some of the
harder features of this kind of work. Not considering that the limits of the glass painter
did not apply to his vellum, he fettered himself unnecessarily, and instead of a picture he
has only succeeded in producing a surface enamel, or a mere reticulation of surface-patterns.
This very defect has by some writers been held up to admiration as the true perfection of all
illumination. Its flatness was applauded because it had to be shut up in a book, and was therefore
the only appropriate way of making a picture for such a purpose. But whoever would dream that
because a picture, painted in due perspective and proper light and shade, was to be shut up
in a book that the figures represented in relief would actually be crushed. Such reasoning
is most puerile. The supposed parallel case of a carpet or hearth-rug representing groups of
flowers--even if the latter ever did deceive the domestic cat--does not in the least affect
the most childish conception of a picture in a book. We see it in a scene in light and shade,
we enjoy and admire its reliefs, but at the same time we know it is a picture, and that it
is quite flat. The two tests of knowledge never interfere with each other. To suppose they
do is to suppose a case of imbecility that even a lunatic must laugh to scorn. So far, therefore,
we think the illuminator mistaken in slavishly copying the limitations of the glass-painter.
It is no very great knowledge of nature that is shown in these drawings. There is a good example
of the method of study followed by thirteenth-century artists in the sketch-book of a French
mason named Villars de Honnecourt, still kept in the National Library at Paris.[36] In this
book the artist has made drawings, as he says, from the life--some are views, others drawings
of objects of art; one represents a lion of the mediæval heraldic type, yet the artist assures
us it is from the life. But there is no real accuracy, everything is done with reference to
some canon. It is, however, quite free from the Byzantine influence, though by no means free
from a certain tincture of symbolism. The nude is rarely attempted, but when it is it is certainly
less ugly than in Carolingian and Romanesque. To return to the Psalter--the style of the figures
is rather graceful, attitudes are gentle and modest, though the inclination of head and body
are such as to suggest a sort of undulatory movement in walking that is scarcely natural. The
forms are slender, and the limbs occasionally beyond the owner's control--sometimes even deformed.
The feet are small and weak--now and then over-twisted. The hands more delicate than formerly,
especially when open. Faces are gently oval and sometimes expressive.

[36] It has been published as the Album of V. de H., Paris, 1858.

Sometimes the "histories" are placed in initial letters, the grounds of which, when not of
burnished gold, consist of imitations of mural carrelages, chequers, etc., or rich enamelled
patterns imitative of engraved traceries on metal. In other cases they are placed in frame-mouldings,
consisting of a bar or beading of gold supporting an inner bar of coloured and polished wood
or enamel work--the polish being represented by a fine line of white along the centre. For
illustrations of this precious volume the reader may refer to Labarte, Hist. des Arts industriels,
album, pl. 92 (Paris, 1864).

Now that the monasteries had ceased to be the exclusive nurseries of art and literature, the
masters of the different arts and crafts usually belonged to the middle classes of the towns,
where at first each art or craft had its own fraternity, and as the idea of trade-association
crew, the crafts most nearly related would form a guild or corporation. All who joined these
corporations bound themselves to work only as the ruler of the guild permitted. Nor were outsiders
allowed to compete with them in their own branches, so exclusive was the protection of the guild.

Each confraternity had its altar in some particular church, whose patron saint became the protector
of the guild. And indeed the constitution of the guild included even political rights and obligations--military
service among the rest, like other feudal institutions. Each town had its own special corporations,
which thus led to the formation of separate schools of art; while travelling apprenticeships
gave the opportunity to all of acquiring knowledge not accessible at home. Members were accustomed
to travel and to attach themselves to the service of various princes, receiving appointments
as "varlets" or "escripvains" or "enlumineurs," which sometimes obliged them to resign their
membership. Occasionally they became political agents and even ambassadors.

It will be remembered that, some pages back, we noticed the fact that in Western illumination
generally the design of the page depended upon the initial letter, or that at least the initial
was the principal object of it. In the thirteenth century, although the initial had very much
diminished in size, the same principle still prevailed. The letter itself was formed of some
fabulous long-necked and long-tailed animal or bird, mostly a dragon as conceived by the mediæval
artist. The head framed more or less on that of the mastiff or lion, or both; the legs of a
bird of prey; the body and tail of a serpent; wings of heraldic construction to suit the form
of the letter. While the body of this unspeakable beast formed the body of the letter, the
tail was indefinitely extended to sweep down the margin of the text and round the base of it,
so as to form a border, while not unfrequently slender branches would spring from it to form
coils here and there ending in a kind of flower-bud, the extremity of the tail forming a similar
coil. Very soon, however, the animal form was abandoned, and the letter made simply as a decorated
initial or capital. If possible, one of its limbs was made to sweep up and down the "margin"
and along the bottom or top as before. Where the interior is not occupied by a "history," we
find coiled stems ending in profile leaves or buds.

At the same time the text has diminished in size, sometimes down to dimensions no greater than
those of an ordinary printed book of to-day, but often beautiful and regular as the clearest
printing. Such a book is the Bible written by a certain William of Devon, now in the British
Museum (Roy. MS. 1 D. 1). A description of this beautiful MS. may be seen in Bibliographica,
vol. i. p. 394, written by Sir E.M. Thompson. Here, though the writing is that of an Englishman,
the style is completely French.

Another MS. deserving of study is a richly illuminated Bible now in the Burney Collection of
our National Library (No. 3). Another, which, owing to its being recommended for study by the
late John Ruskin, was once known as the Ruskin Book, is Add. MS. 17341, which contains many
fine initials with border and bracket foliages similar to those of the Evangeliary of the Sainte
Chapelle, now in the National Library, Paris (MS. Lat. 17326). Both the MSS. show the contemporary
peculiarity of presenting Bible characters, excepting divine personages, apostles, and evangelists
in ordinary local costume. Paris, of course, is the city where most, and perhaps the best,
of these MSS. are preserved; but those named above, in London, are also among the finest known
examples.

Through the thirteenth century is the epoch of the Gothic renaissance, it is the fourteenth
to which really belongs the title of the Golden Age. The style of work remains precisely the
same, only it grows. It changes from the bud to the leaf. It casts off the severity and much
of the restraint of its earlier character. To the grace of youth it adds beauty, the beauty
of adolescence. To fourteenth-century illumination we can give no higher praise than that it
is beautiful. Not, indeed, because of its deliberate limitations, but in spite of them. For
after ages have taught us that if in pure ornament and resplendent decorative completeness
the pages of the fourteenth century cannot be surpassed, in miniature historiation it must
take a second place. The skilled illuminators of the later schools are the masters of the mere
picture. For surely no judge of art could possibly assert that the miniatures of the Grunani
Breviary or of the Brera Graduals as miniatures are inferior to those of the Psalter of St.
Louis, the Berry Bible, or the Prayer-book of Margaret of Bavaria. Yet these are typical MSS.
of the highest rank. Hence we say that while the illumination of the Golden Age of the art
was beautiful, it was not absolutely perfect. It is not to be taken by modern students as the
only possible model or basis simply because it was the best of its kind. There is no such despotism
in art. To those who think it the only possible form of book decoration, let it be so by all
means, but we may as well hope to clothe our soldiers in chain or plate armour, and send the
elite of our nobility on another crusade to Jerusalem, or satisfy our universities with the
quod libets and quiddities of the trivium and quadrivium, as hope to make popular to the England
of the twentieth century the artistic tastes of the fourteenth. We indulge in no such dreams.
If we are to have illuminated books, our own age must invent them. The illuminators of the
Bibles, Romances, Mirrors, and Chronicles of the fourteenth century no doubt did their best,
and we honour and praise them for it. We think their work among the loveliest gratifications
of the eye that can be imagined. But the eye is very catholic--it has immense capacities for
enjoyment. The window of the soul opens on illimitable prospects, and if the soul be satisfied
for the time, it is not necessarily repleted for ever. Golden ages are cyclical, and it may
be that the glory of the books of the future shall surpass all the glories of the past.

By 1350 France had absorbed all the antecedent varieties of illumination. From France, therefore,
spring all the succeeding styles now considered national.

And as is most natural, these styles develop by proximity--the nearest to French being Netherlandish.
The next, as a result of immediate intercourse, Italian. Then German, Spanish, and the rest,
as intercourse gave opportunity. It is not always an easy matter to say offhand whether a MS.
is French or Flemish. In the earlier days it is not easy to say whether it be French or English,
or even whether French or Italian. But the distinctness comes later on.

In the fifteenth century the Italian, German, French, and English are quite distinct varieties.
Towards the sixteenth the Netherlandish is quite as distinct. But the styles of Spain, Bohemia,
Hungary, Poland, though possessing features which identify them to an experienced eye, are
to the ordinary spectator merely sub-varieties of Netherlandish, Italian, or German.

With regard to the distinctions of schools or local centres within the same country, the evidence
of probable origin has to be corroborated by historic fact. It is not safe without further
proof than that afforded by general features to affirm that this or that MS. was executed at
Paris, Dijon, Amiens, or Limoges in France; or at Ghent, Bruges, or elsewhere in Flanders;
or whether a MS. be Rhenish or Saxon, Bavarian or Westphalian, in Germany; Bolognese, Florentine,
Siennese, Milanese, or Neapolitan in Italy; or executed at Westminster, St. Albans, Exeter,
or elsewhere in England. Nevertheless the special characteristics of all these schools are
quite distinguishable. In the attempt to distinguish them, although the diagnosis may be perfectly
accurate, the actual facts may be otherwise accounted for. Hence the danger to which even the
experienced connoisseur is liable. For example, certain MSS. are written in a fine Bolognese
hand, which it is proved were actually executed in Flanders; others that one would feel sure
were Netherlandish, were illuminated in Spain. Some very fine typical Flemish miniatures were
painted in Italy; certain Florentine miniatures were the work of artists residing in Rome.
Milanese illumination is quite distinguishable from Neapolitan, and Venetian from both, yet
the school is not proof of the provenance.

Illuminators, like other craftsmen, travelled from city to city, and princes employed men,
who resided in their patrons' palaces, who yet had learned their art many leagues away. How
often we find the names of artists with the words Dallemagna, il Tedesco, le Poitevin, Veronese,
Franco, Crovata, etc., employed in Italian houses, indicating the place of their nativity.
So that even when we know every feature of the work we have much to learn ere we can say with
truth that it was executed in such and such a city. We must take into account details which
are liable to escape the ordinary observer, such as quality of vellum or paper, choice of pigments,
mode of application, and other particulars quite distinct from style of ornament or varieties
of form in foliage. In the Fitzwilliam Library at Cambridge is an Italian MS., the characteristics
of whose ornamentation are unequivocally French, but whose mode of treatment shows not only
that it is Italian but that it is Milanese, but whether executed in Milan or not is more than
anyone can affirm. In the British Museum is a magnificent service-book called the Padua Missal,
but the probability is that the Paduan artist who painted its splendid pages, painted them
at Venice. That it was executed for Sta. Justina, at Padua, is no proof that the work was done
in that city.

In monastic times we have seen why the artist rarely signed his name. After the thirteenth
century the lay artist had no such scruples, and hence we often find particulars of origin
and purpose which explain all we wish to know. But if the MSS. themselves do not contain the
particulars, very often the account-books of cathedrals and other establishments for which
the books were illuminated, give the details of price and purpose, and add the names of the
artists. The household expense books, guild books, municipal records, and the journals of the
painters themselves are fertile sources of information. And if we seek with sufficient diligence
these will probably be the means by which it may eventually be found.

In addition to the expanding ivy leaf which forms the chief feature of fourteenth-century book-ornament,
we find the miniaturist as a further improvement adding delicate colour in the faces. Also
that instead of the invariable lozenging or diapering of the background he occasionally makes
a background of plain burnished gold. And as if to prove that his predecessors were really
hampered with the restrictions imposed by their imitations of painted glass, he begins to try
his best to paint up his miniatures into real pictures with high lights on draperies and shading
upon the folds. A certain amount of flatness, however, still remains, but it scarcely seems
to have been the intention or aim of the painter. There is a similar flatness in the work of
all the early schools of painting, which had no reference whatever to the destination of the
picture. See, for instance, the Origny Treasure Book in the Print Room at Berlin (MS. 38),
and the Life of St. Denis in the National Library at Paris (Nos. 2090-2), both MSS. dating
somewhere about 1315. The drapery shading in the latter MS. is no longer the work of the pen,
but brush-work in proper colour. The Westreenen Missal in the Museum at the Hague, which dates
about 1365, though not a French MS., is an example of the fact that by the middle of the century
the tradition of penwork outline and flat-colouring had become pretty nearly obsolete.

The reign of the afflicted Charles VI. of France, disastrous in the extreme to the material
welfare of his own subjects, full of untold misery to the poor, and of oppression to the growing
community of artisans and traders, was nevertheless, as regards literature and the arts, a
period of progress and even splendour. The King's incapacity, by affording his uncles and brothers
opportunities for fingering the revenues during the self-appointed and irresponsible regencies,
enabled them to gratify their magnificent tastes in the purchasing of costly furniture and
the ordering of splendid books. Louis of Orleans, usually credited with the worst of this prodigality,
was by no means singular in his conduct. His uncle, the Duke of Berry, while daily earning
the execrations of the tax-payers by his unscrupulous employment of the public money, was constantly
enriching his library, and both he and his brothers and nephews were in the habit of sending
priceless volumes, illuminated by the best artists, as wedding and birthday gifts, to each
other, or their wives or acquaintances. We talk, and justly, of the fine taste and noble love
of literature of Jean de Berry. His contemporaries, at least those beneath his own rank, looked
upon him as a tyrant and plunderer. His disastrous administration of Languedoc was described
as "one long fête where the excess of expenditure was rivalled only by the excess of scandal."
If the marmousets could have hanged him they would. In default they hanged his treasurer.

All this maladministration was very wrong, but we cannot afford to burn the MSS. in consequence,
for the Bible, the "Grandes Heures," and other books once possessed by the wicked Duke, are
among the most precious relics of any age. Add to them the beautiful volumes of poetry and
romance composing the contemporary literature of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, and
we have treasures that we dare not relinquish.

By the beginning of the fifteenth century pure French illumination was losing its own characteristics
and acquiring others. In the North, in Flanders and Brabant, Franche-Comté and the Burgundian
Dukedom generally, it was becoming that peculiar kind of French which had received the name
of Burgundian. It can scarcely be said to be Flemish enough to rank as Netherlandish, yet neither
can it stand side by side with "French of Paris."

Let us look at a few examples. There is the Book of Offices in the Library of St. Geneviève
at Paris (Bibl. Lat. 66), also the St. Augustine in the same library. Also a small crowd of
volumes in the Royal Library at Brussels, another in the National Library at Paris. One of
the richest examples known is the "Psalter of the Convent of Salem," in the University Library
at Heidelberg. Other grand MSS. are the two volumes of the "Mutacion de Fortune" of Christine
de Pisan and the "Cité des Dames" of the same authoress. The volume of her poems, etc., in
the British Museum, is a marvellously fine work (Harl. 4431). The greater part of this volume
is in the earlier or "Berry" style, i.e. the fine pen-sprays of ivy leaf of burnished gold.
But the first grand border is altogether transitional, consisting of the pen-sprays of golden
ivy leaf alternating with sprays of natural flowers. This innovation, it has been said, was
due to the school of van Eyck, but as no proof is forthcoming that J. van Eyck ever worked
on illuminating we may be content to say that it arose about 1413, and that probably it came
from Bruges. It is the beginning of the Burgundian style. But the ornamental leafage is different
from ordinary Brugeois, inasmuch as it is "pearled" along the central veins, and is not symmetrical.
The pearling is perhaps a suggestion from glass painting. It was very early adapted in German
foliage work. On the first fly-leaf are several signatures, including the name and device of
Louis Gruthuse: "Plus est en vous Gruthuse." The miniatures still remain French with mostly
panelled backgrounds, some with landscape. It is evidently a transitional document.

The works of Christine de Pisan, the popular--one may fairly say fashionable--authoress, were
perhaps among the best known and most widely read while Caxton was setting up his press at
Westminster, as she was among the most welcome guests at the Courts of Charles VI. and Philip
of Burgundy. She was the daughter of a distinguished Venetian savant, Thomas de Pisan, who
had come at the invitation of Charles le Sage to Paris as "Astrologue du Roi." At the age of
fifteen Christine, who was as beautiful as she was accomplished, became the wife of a Picard
gentleman named Estienne Castel. Two years afterwards the death of the King brought trouble
upon her father, and with it sickness and despondency. Then followed sorrow upon sorrow. Whilst
she was herself still burdened with the cares of early motherhood her father died, and within
nine years from her marriage the sudden death from contagion, of her husband, to whom she was
most fondly attached, left her a widow with two little children dependent upon her, and with
only what she herself could earn as a means of livelihood. She was not yet twenty-six years
old. To assuage her misery she betook herself to study and the composition of essays and poetry.
Her works speedily brought her the recognition of distinguished personages; her children were
provided for, and she herself soon acquired both fortune and reputation. Charles VI. allowed
her a pension, and she composed for his Queen, Isabella of Bavaria, several important treatises.
Among her numerous compositions were "Les cens Histoires de Troyes" in verse, "Le Chemin de
longue estude", "La Mutacion de Fortune," and a Life of Charles V., the latter composed at
the request of Philip the Good of Burgundy. But the work which sets off her wit and learning
to the best advantage was an allegorical essay on Womanhood, which she called "Le Trésor de
la Cité des Dames." Altogether her works include fifteen books and about sixty smaller writings,
which she dedicated to the King and Queen of France, the Dukes of Burgundy and Orleans, and
the princesses and princes of the Court.

One beautifully illuminated copy of the Mutation of Fortune in two volumes is a curious example
of its title, for one volume of it is in the National Library at Paris (fonds fr. 603) and
the other in the Royal Library at Munich. In the former we have her portrait. In a blue gown
she sits at her writing-desk busy at her work. On her head is the muslin-draped and high-peaked
"hennin." Beside her a table covered with a green cloth and laden with crimson and violet-bound
books and an inkstand. Her chair has a high back, and the floor is of the usual kind seen in
illuminations; that is, as if composed of a parquetry of coloured woodwork or of tiles of various
kinds of marble. On the sill of the Gothic-latticed window, through which we catch a glimpse
of the blue sky, stands a vase of flowers. Not perhaps an ideal lady's boudoir, but still an
apartment of taste, and an altogether charming little picture. In the second miniature of the
Munich volume Christine is standing in a chamber--in the same costume as above described. The
pictures on the walls are--a fortress, a watchman, two knights, a prince with crown and sceptre,
seated on his throne, surrounded by courtiers; a duel; and a martyr having his head struck
off. Just such mediæval subjects as we may expect in a fifteenth-century mansion.

In a copy of the "Cité des Dames" at Munich is another portrait of Christine. The book is an
Apology for the feminine sex, and it is well thought out. It appears that the conversation
of the time was not always free from rather severe sarcasm concerning the ladies. We learn
from Du Verdier that the continuator of the Romance of the Rose narrowly escaped most condign
chastisement from some of the insulted sex at the French Court for the base insinuations in
his poem against the character of women. Christine herself heartily disapproved of the Romance
of the Rose, and wrote a sharp criticism upon it. Her "Cité des Dames" is an elaborate confutation
of the opinion that women are naturally more immoral and less capable of noble studies or high
intellectual attainments than men. In her introduction she says: "I reflected why men are so
unanimous in attributing wickedness to women. I examined my own life and those of other women
to learn why we should be worse than men, since we also were created by God. I was sitting
ashamed with bowed head and eyes blinded with tears, resting my chin on my hands in my elbow-chair,
when a dazzling beam of Light flashed before me, which came not from the sun, for it was late
in the evening. I glanced up and saw standing before me three female figures wearing crowns
of gold, and with radiant countenances. I crossed myself, whereupon one of the three addressed
me. 'Fear not, dear daughter, for we will counsel and help thee. The aphorisms of the Philosophers
are not Articles of Faith, but simply the mists of error and self-deception.'" The three ladies
or goddesses are Fame, Prudence, and Justice, and they command Christine under the supervision
of Reason (or Commonsense) to build a city for the noblest and best of her own sex. So the
city was begun, and the elect, allegorically, let into it. In varied ranks following one another
came goddesses and saintly women, Christian and heathen women--among them walks as leader the
Queen of the Amazons. "Queen" Ceres, who taught the art and practice of agriculture. Queen
Isis, who first led mankind to the cultivation of plants. Arachne, who invented the arts of
dyeing, weaving, flax-growing, and spinning. Damphile, who discovered how to breed silkworms.
Queen Tomyris, who vanquished Cyrus. The noble Sulpicia, who shared her husband's exile, and
many others, among whom may be seen Dame Sarah, the wife of Abraham, Penelope, Ruth, and the
Saints Katharine, Margaret, Lucia, and Dorothea. In the first miniature on the left sits Christine
with a coif upon her head and a great book on her lap; on her left hand is the plan of her
new city, while opposite stand the three ladies already spoken of as her advisers, furnished
with building tools and giving her their advice. On the right she appears again in elegant
costume with hewn stones and a trowel assisted by two workmen who are busily at work. Before
her is an unfinished wall and several completed towers. In two other miniatures the gradual
progress and entire completion of the city are shown, and in the foreground of each Christine
and her three patronesses as before. Other examples deserving of extended notice are the Shrewsbury
Romances (Roy. 15 E. 6) and Augustine, Cité de Dieu (Roy. 14 D. 1), two great folios, the former
most interesting for its miniatures--the latter as a fair example of the rougher kind of Lille
work, bold in design, good drawing. The choice of colours includes marone, blue, green, and
gold. The ornaments, as usual, consist of sprays of ivy leaf and grounds filled in with treillages
of natural flowers, among which are the daisy, viola tricolor, thistle, cornbottle, and wild
stock. Fruits and vegetables also, as grapes, field peas, and strawberries. The miniatures
include a few rather coarse grisailles.

A little volume (Harl. 2936) contains exquisitely drawn Brugeois scrolls in monochrome on grounds
of the same colour or plain gold or black. Lastly we may mention "Les Heures de la Dame de
Saluces," otherwise called the "Yemeniz Hours," in the British Museum (Add. 27967), a large
octavo, as an example of transitional Burgundian. Here the secondary borders have mostly the
penwork ivy leaf with Brugeois corners and with strawberries, etc., in the midst of the sprays.
Among the foliages grotesque figures frequently appear. The principal pages, however, are more
like Harl. 4431, yet without the ivy-leaf tendrils. The miniatures are still Gothic, but richer
and deeper in colour than ordinary French work. It would appear that two different artists
were employed--one decidedly French, the other Netherlandish, and of a more individual character,
still with French accessories. Every page has a border of some kind. Among the flowers the
thistle is peculiar in having a golden cup next the down. The work generally resembles, in
some parts, 4431 Harl.; in others, and perhaps more strongly, 15 E. 6. The colours are chiefly
blue, scarlet, rose-pink, green, and gold.

We have now pretty nearly worked our way into Flemish illumination. The after-history of French
as developed through the influence of Italy on the schools of Paris and Tours must have a chapter
to itself.

In a former chapter we left our native schools of illumination at work on such MSS. as the
Devonshire and Rouen Benedictionals, and with the reputation of being the best schools of the
kind in Christendom. Mention also is made elsewhere in dealing with monastic art of the usages
of the scriptoria. Such usages, of course, could only obtain in houses where scribes themselves
were to be had. Hence we should discover, were it not otherwise known, that writing and illumination,
even in the monastic age, were not confined absolutely to the cloister.

With respect to the secular scribes, who sometimes worked in the monastery, sometimes at their
own homes, in those days when the monastic orders still did most of the book-production, there
were three classes of specialists. These were the Librarii or ordinary copyists; the Notarii
or law-scribes, whose business lay in copying deeds, charters, and such-like instruments, and
taking notes in the courts; and Paginators or Illuminatores. It sometimes happened, as we have
said, that in some monastery or other, no monastic was found qualified to undertake any of
these duties. It then fell to the prior or abbat to seek the assistance of professional outsiders.
The paging and rubrication, putting in initials in the spaces left by the common scribe, and,
if needed, the addition of pictures or marginal drawings and ornaments, caricatures, heraldic
illustrations, etc., were the proper work of the illuminator, but it often happened that the
same man had to do the whole work from the commencement to the finish. The Chronicon Trudonense
tells us: "Graduale unum propria manu formavit, purgavit, pinxit, sulcabit, scripsit, illuminavit,
musiceque notavit syllabatim." Several of our old English chronicles, of which the MSS. exist
in the British Museum and elsewhere, seem to be of this description.

Reference has been made to the scriptoria at Winchester, i.e. at St. Swithun's and the New
Minster. It is the latter foundation which is usually referred to in speaking of Winchester
work. The Monastery of the Holy Trinity or the New Minster was founded in the first year of
his reign by King Edward, son of Alfred, no doubt in obedience to his father's wish, if not
absolutely in the terms of his will. Its first charter is dated 900 (for 901) and the second
in 903. In the latter document the abbey is spoken of as dedicated to the Holy Trinity, the
Blessed Virgin Mary, and to St. Peter, and is amply endowed under the Augustinian Rule. In
965, not without trouble and resistance, it was converted into a Benedictine abbey. In 968
Ethelgar, who had been trained at Glastonbury and Abingdon, became abbat, and from this time
the New Minster became famous for both discipline and the production of MSS. As we walk along
the High Street of Winchester now we find the story in moss-grown stones or other memorials
how, among other methods, William the Norman punished the monks for their English warlike proclivities
by walling them up nearly close to their church with the walls of his royal palace. The result
of this was, first the above-mentioned hemming in of the younger establishment and eventually
its migration to another site in Hyde Meadow. Here while the monastic buildings suffered much
through fires and other disasters, the Rule remained until 1538, when it was surrendered into
the King's hands, and the abbat, prior, and nineteen monks, the last survivors of this once-famous
foundation, were pensioned.

[37] Dugdale, Monasticon.

The scriptorium at St. Alban's, to which the fame of book production in the Middle Ages very
largely reverted, was not founded until nearly three centuries after the foundation of that
abbey. The library began with twenty-eight notable volumes, and eight Psalters, a book of collects,
another of epistles, and Evangelia legenda per annum, two Gospel-books bound in gold and silver
and set with gems, together with other necessary volumes for ordinary use. Almost every succeeding
abbat contributed something to the library shelves. Geoffrey, the sixteenth abbat, a Norman
who once had a school at Dunstable, and who was both a popular and liberal ruler, enriched
the library with a Missal bound in gold, another incomparably illuminated and beautifully written,
and also a Psalter richly illuminated, a Benedictional, and others. His successor, Ralph Gubiun,
also gave a number of MSS. Robert de Gosham, the next abbat, gave "very many" books, which
he had caused to be written and sumptuously bound for the purpose. And Abbat Simon, who followed
in 1166, created the office of historiographer to the abbey, repaired and enlarged the scriptorium,
and kept two or three of the cleverest writers constantly employed in transcription, and ordained
that for the future every abbat should maintain at least one suitable and capable scribe. Among
the many choice MSS. added by Abbat Simon was a beautiful copy of the Bible specially written
with the greatest care and exactness. In addition he presented the library with all his own
precious collection. Another liberal benefactor was John de Cell, a man of vast learning in
grammar and poetry, and also a practitioner in medicine. Being unfit for household management,
he committed the secular affairs of the abbey to his prior Reymund, by whose zeal many noble
and valuable books were transcribed for the library. And so grew in magnitude and importance
the great collection which supplied Roger of Wendover and Matthew Paris with materials for
their famous histories. St. Alban's, indeed, was at one period perhaps the most noted of all
the English centres of book production. To dilate on other centres, such as Westminster, Exeter,
Worcester, Norwich, or York, would lead us too far afield for a mere handbook like the present.
Enough has been said to give a good idea of what our English abbats and priors were in the
habit of doing for art and letters.

Since 980 a considerable quantity of transcription and illumination must have been produced,
notwithstanding disquiet, turbulence, and war. At Westminster the traditions of illumination
seem to have followed the methods of the earlier Winchester school. But in the twelfth century
English work shows, on the whole, a greater likeness to the contemporary work of Germany. Of
Westminster work an example occurs among the Royal MSS. (2 A. 22). The subject is the Psalter,
and the text is the handsome style of penmanship known as English Gothic of the latter part
of the twelfth century. It would appear from the frequent occurrence of this particular service-book
that it held the place of the later Book of Hours, and so we may expect a great similarity
among different copies, both in the selection of the illustrations and their mode of treatment.
It was usual in all such volumes to prefix to the text a series of subjects from the Old and
New Testaments and the Lives of the Saints. Here we have them from the Life of the Virgin and
from the Life of David, by no means unworthy samples of the school. One represents the Virgin
and Child seated on a seat of the Germano-Byzantine type beneath an arch and within a square
frame-border. The border seems first to have been flatly painted in two colours, pale blue
and pale red ochre, and on this a foliage scroll of recurring forms in a bold dull red outline
finely relieved with white. This is more or less repeated as the form of border to the other
illuminations. Outside the whole is a characteristic slender frame of bright green in two tints.
The arch overhead has two bands of vermilion, with white edge-reliefs and a central band of
blue, again in two tints, with pairs of black cross-bars every half-inch or so resting on the
capitals of the two pillars which form the sides of the scene. These pillars have each a green
abacus at the top of each capital and scarlet bead below. Each pillar is of dappled red, marble-like
porphyry, with plinths of scarlet and blue. Tiers of differently coloured steps separated by
bands of scarlet, green, etc., form the seat. The Virgin wears the hood, cape, and robe of
the Benedictine nun, but coloured grey, chocolate, and blue respectively. An under garment
of pale amber completes her dress. The infant wears an amber tunic, wrapped in a scarlet robe.
A very common embroidery of the drapery consists of little stars or triads of white studs.
This also is a characteristic of German and early Netherlandish illumination. There is a rich
gold brocade border to the blue robe of the Virgin. Both mother and child have round nimbuses,
the former in plain circular bands of russet and orange, the latter consisting of bands of
pale blue surmounted by a scarlet cross. Two lumps of green glass or metal hang from the arch.
The background is a plate of gold. The flesh tones are livid, being of a pale greenish ochre
tint. One other of the illuminations of this exceedingly interesting MS. may be mentioned,
viz. the David playing his harp. He also wears three garments--a tunic of white shaded with
pale blue, then another of lavender or lilac and having rich brocaded borders, and, lastly,
a pallium or robe of pale chocolate lined with ermine; orange-coloured hose. The throne, like
the previous one, is of several colours--slate-blue, green, orange, and white, with a buff
cushion. Here is a back to the throne of a deep blue, with a background, as before, of bright
flat gold. The white moulding is shaded with pale green, with bluish slate corners. The outer
border is of the pale red ochre or pink, so common in later work in contrast with deep blue.
An outer frame or edging of green completes the page. The harp is not gilded, but of a drab
hue, with two quatrefoil studs or orifices in the frame, relieved as usual with fine edges
of white. Compare this MS. with one in the Library at Lambeth.

The English illumination of the thirteenth century is so like that of France that it is often
difficult to determine its real nationality. There is occasionally some feature which we know
from other sources to be English, or some circumstance in the history of the MS. which fixes
its origin, as, for example, in the Additional MS. 24686, known as the Tenison Psalter. Sir
E.M. Thompson also describes this MS. in the Bibliographica, i. 397. But it was previously
described at some length by Sir Edward Bond in the Fine Arts Quarterly Review. The Psalter,
which has had a somewhat eventful history, is one of the best examples of English thirteenth-century
illumination. At least, this may be said of the early portion of it, for while it is illuminated
throughout, only the first gathering is in the earlier manner. The peculiar value to the student
lies in the fact that although quite in the same style as contemporary French work, it is the
work of an English illuminator. The colouring, however, is not confined, as in somewhat earlier
examples, to blue and dull pale rose or paled red ochre and gold. It gives us scarlet, crimson-lake,
green, and brown, besides the blue and pink and bright gold which suggests some German influences.
The line fillings are somewhat peculiar as having silver tracery, on the blue, side by side
with golden tracery on the crimson. The full ivy leaf appears in the long branch work of the
borders, and some of the initials still retain the bird or dragon forms in their construction.
The compound bar-frame, gold and traceried colour side by side, is however already taking the
place of the mere sweeping tail or branch. But perhaps the best indication of English design
is the presence of a number of grotesque animals, with birds and occasional humorous scenes
disposed, not in framed miniatures, but simply among the stems and coils of the foliage. This
is a form of illustration much appreciated by English illuminators at all times, though it
appears also in much continental work. Among other English MSS. which display this taste we
may point out Arund. 83, which among many other treatises and curious compositions, such as
the "Turris Sapientiæ" and a valuable calendar, in which are notes on the Arundels of Wemme,
contains a psalter with anthems, etc., and hence is known as the Arundel Psalter. Its date
is probably between 1330 and 1380.

The drolleries are very funny, and the other illuminations very instructive and curious. Some
of them contain really good pen-drawing--refined, expressive, and graceful, but above all typical
of English draughtsmanship. In a little scene of the adoration of the Magi (folio 125) the
kings are costumed like our Henry III., as we find him 'n sculpture, wall paintings, etc. Over
a very expressive picture of the three living and the three dead occur the lines, each over
a figure: "Ich am afert Lo wet ich se Methinketh hit beth deueles thre. Ich wes welfair Such
scheltou be For godes loue be wer by me" (folio 128).[38] The three living in this illumination
are three fashionable ladies--no doubt princesses, for they wear crowns. Generally they are
men, as at Lutterworth in the sculptures over the door, and in the famous fresco of Gozzoli
at Pisa. The subject occurs sometimes in Books of Hours.

[38] "I am afraid. Lo, what I see Methinketh it be devils three. I was well fair. Such shalt
thou be. For love of God beware by me."

Many MSS. of this period and later have hunting scenes, shooting practice, and games.

In MS. 264, Misc., Bodl. Lib., Oxford, there are such scenes, one being a game at "Blind Man's
Buff," or as literally here "Hoodman Blind," for the latter actually wear a hood drawn down
over his head and shoulders, and three girls are having a fine game with him. The goldfinch
or linnet looking on from the border seems to enjoy the fun. Another fine source of similar
things is the Louterell Psalter in the British Museum. In this also are some richly diapered
backgrounds and exquisite border bands. This MS. dates about 1340. But the gem of English fourteenth-century
illumination is the Royal MS. (2 C. 7) called Queen Mary's Psalter, not as being painted for
her, since it had been painted nearly two centuries before she ever saw it. But in the year
(?) 1553, being about to be sent abroad, it was stopped by a customs officer and presented
to Queen Mary Tudor. It is bound in what appears to be the binding put on it by the Queen--i.e.
crimson velvet embroidered on each cover with a large pomegranate, and having gilt corner protections
and (once upon a time) golden clasps. The clasps are gone, but the plates remain riveted on
the covers, engraven with the Tudor badges. The MS. contains 320 large octavo leaves, the first
fifty-six being taken up with illuminated illustrations of biblical history from the Creation
to the death of Solomon. These pictures are arranged in pairs one over the other, and to each
one is given a description in French, taken sometimes from the canonical text, sometimes from
an apocryphal one. The drawings are really exquisite, they are so fine, so delicately yet so
cleverly sketched. They are not coloured in full body-colours, but just suggestively, the draperies
being washed over in thin tints, the folds well defined, but lightly shaded. Next after these
subjects follows the Psalter with miniatures of New Testament scenes and figures of saints
accompanied with most beautiful initials and ornaments, illuminated by a thoroughly practised
hand, for the artist of this volume was by no means a novice at his work. A good example of
it is given in Bibliographica, pl. 7 [23], which forms the frontispiece to vol. i., and one
or two outlines in the folio catalogue of the Arundel MSS.

Arund. MS. 84 is also a good example of thirteenth-century illumination to a rather unpromising
subject, being a Latin translation of Euclid from the Arabic by Athelard of Bath. It is illustrated
with diagrams.

Speaking of fourteenth-century illumination brings us to notice a very striking change which
takes place in the reign of Richard II. in the character of English illumination. In the British
Museum (Roy. 20 B. 6) is a MS. entitled an Epistle to Richard II., written, it is said, in
Paris, in which the illuminations and foliages are purely French, but which are the type of
all the English work of the same date. Take, for example, the MS. already spoken of (Roy. 2
A. 22), produced in the scriptorium at Westminster Abbey. Compare with it a Bible written for
the use of Salisbury, and dated 1254. Then add the Tenison Psalter, the Arundel Psalter, illuminated
1310-20. If these MSS. be compared, however, with Lansd. 451, or Roy. 1 E. 9, the least accustomed
eye must notice the entire and almost startling change in the luxuriance and character of the
flowers and foliages which constitute the initial and border decorations. It is not merely
a development. There are additional features, but that these features are added, as usual,
from France, is contradicted by reference to Roy. 20 B. 6, mentioned above. The new features
are not French. The question is, where did they come from?

It has been suggested by a high authority that the immediate sources of the third period of
English illumination were Netherlandish, but probable as this seems at first sight, there is
another explanation which seems to the present writer to be a better one. As already pointed
out, the influence on English work before 1377, notwithstanding political conditions, are distinctly
French. After this date, though the artistic relation with France is not broken off, yet long
before 1390 we find this new influence which is not French, and for which we have no special
evidence that it is Netherlandish. If we go, however, a little farther afield, we shall find
it. In the new work is a softer kind of foliage and a greater variety of sweet colour, and
both these characteristics are found in a school of illumination that was being formed under
the auspices of the Emperor Charles IV. at Prag in Bohemia. The artists in that capital who
executed the famous Golden Bull and commenced the grand Wenzel Bible were a select band of
Frenchmen and Italians; the combined result of whose designs and labours was this very mixture
of Gothic ivy leaf and thorn with the softer Othonian and Roman foliages and a new scheme of
colour. Charles IV., son of that famous John of Luxembourg, the blind king of Bohemia, who
perished at Crécy, was himself King of Bohemia as well as Emperor, and a man of brilliant personal
accomplishments and cultivated tastes in literature and art.

Becoming Emperor the very next year after his succession to the throne of Bohemia, he fixed
his residence at Prag, where he began the building of the new city, and founded a university
on the model of that of Paris, where he had studied, and whence he had married his first wife,
Blanche, daughter of Charles, Count of Valois. His university soon attracted some thousands
of students, and with them no small crowd of literary men and artists, both from France and
Italy. The great fact, however, to remember about Charles IV. is the Golden Bull, the masterly
scheme by which all matters concerning the election to the Empire were in future to be settled.
All the Constitutions were written in a book called, from the bulla or seal of gold which was
appended to it, the Golden Bull, of which the text was drawn up either at Metz or Nuremberg
in 1356, and many copies distributed throughout the Empire. It is further affirmed that the
absolute original is at Frankfort. But the splendid copy made by order of the Emperor Wenzel
in 1400 is still preserved in the Imperial Library at Vienna. And as it is ah example of the
style of illumination practised in Prag during the reign of Charles IV., we may call it Bohemian.
It is true that the foliages are a little more luxuriant in this Wenzel-book than in the earliest
examples of the style seen in England, but the twenty years which had elapsed would easily
account for this difference. As compared, however, with either French or Netherlandish, the
new English style shows a much greater similarity to the work then being done in Lower Bavaria.
In these soft curling foliages and the fresh carnations of the flesh-tints of the Prag and
Nuremberg illuminators we may trace the actual source of the remarkable transformation seen
in English illumination after the marriage of Richard II.

Charles IV. was four times married. His successor, Wenzel, whose ghastly dissipations can only
be regarded as the terrible proofs of insanity, was the child of his third wife. His fourth
wife, the beautiful daughter of the Duke of Pomerania and Stettin, had four children, of whom
Sigismund, the eldest, afterwards succeeded Wenzel as emperor, and Anne, the third, came to
England as the wife of Richard II. The magnificence of her equipage and the crowd of persons
who formed her retinue are noticed by contemporary writers, and the effect upon English manners
was instantaneous. Her beauty, sweetness of manners, and culture rendered her at once not merely
the idol of her husband, who, says Walsingham, "could scarcely bear her to be out of his sight,"
but universally beloved by all the English nation.

To her the first English writer on heraldry, John of Guildford dedicated his book, and the
artists who came with her from her luxurious home at Prag would naturally become the leaders
of taste in their adopted country. After a while, indeed, the numbers of countrymen of the
Queen were looked upon as the cause of extortions practised on the English people in order
to supply the money lavished on these foreigners. More than once is this grievance referred
to. In an old MS. in the Harley Library (2261), containing a fifteenth-century translation
of Higden's Polychronicon, these foreigners are made responsible for at least one fashionable
extravagance: "Anne qwene of Ynglonde dyede in this year (1393) at Schene the viith day of
the monethe of Janius, on the day of Pentecoste: the dethe of whom the Kynge sorowede insomoche
that he causede the maner there to be pullede downe, and wolde not comme in eny place by oon
yere folowynge where sche hade be, the churche excepte; whiche was beryede in the churche of
Westmonastery, in the feste of seynte Anne nexte folowynge, with grete honoure and solennite.
That qwene Anne purchased of the pope that the feste of Seynte Anne scholde be solenniysed
in Ynglonde. The dethe of this qwene Anne induced grete hevynesse to noble men and to commune
peple also, for sche causede noo lytelle profite to the realme. But mony abusions comme from
Boemia into Englonde with this qwene, and specially schoone with longe pykes, insomoche that
they cowthe not go untylle that thei were tyede to theire legges, usenge that tyme cheynes
of silvyr at the pykes of theire schoone."

It is a fact that the Bohemian manner of illumination, with its three-lobed and vari-coloured
foliages, became the fashion in every English centre of illumination. In the preceding remarks
we have endeavoured to account for it. That the same style went from Prag to Nuremberg may
be only the natural result of its being carried in the marriage and retinue of the Princess
Margaret, Anne's half-sister, who became the wife of the Burggrave John.

Quite a similar MS. to those executed in the reign of Richard II. in England and those of Bohemia
is the Wilhelm van Oransse of Wolfram v. Eschenbach, now in the Imperial Library at Vienna.
A similar, but inferior, work exists in the Prayer-book written by Josse de Weronar in the
British Museum (Add. 15690). The English foliages never show quite all the varieties of colour
seen in the continental examples, but the golden diapers and pounced gold patterns are quite
as elaborate. See this work, however, in Arundel 83. It appears also in the mural paintings
of the end of the fourteenth and beginning of the fifteenth centuries. No doubt the English
art of the fourteenth century is of French origin--so mainly is that of Bohemia--for Charles
IV. was brought up at the Court of France. Further than this, we think we are justified in
tracing the new elements in Bohemian to Italy, and those in English to Bohemia. The most striking
proof is not only the foliages, but the change from the long, colourless faces of French miniatures
to the plump and ruddy countenances seen, for example, in the Lancastrian MSS. in the Record
Office and in Harl. 7026[39] of the British Museum. Of course, this suggestion of source is
not put forward as a dead certainty, but it affords this probability that as the style suddenly
arose during the lifetime of Anne of Bohemia--and she was the acknowledged leader of fashion--so
her tastes in respect of illuminated books and heraldic decoration would become those of her
new subjects. Let us examine this fifteenth-century English work, and for this purpose let
us take the great illuminated Bible in the Royal Library, 1 E. 9. It is an enormous folio,
and rather unwieldly, but a most interesting example of the new style. Its initials are large,
richly illuminated in gold and attractive colours. It has well-executed histories within the
initials, and boldly designed border frames, elegantly adorned with foliages and conventional
or idealised flowers. Perhaps the most noticeable feature is the beautiful, decorative foliage
work in the limbs of the letters--itself a South German peculiarity--then the alternation of
colours without interrupting the design, the profusion of foliage modelling in the backgrounds
of the letter panels outside the historiations. The next thing is the bold use of minium side
by side even with pure rose-petal colour, pale bright cerulean blue, and bright gold. Lastly,
the immense variety of leaf-forms, based on the three, five, and seven-lobed groupings of the
typical form. The coil and spiral are freely used as the groundwork, and the colours alternated
as the coils or spirals change from front to back of the leaf.

[39] The Lovell Psalter.

Backgrounds of miniature histories are treated as in the Bohemian MSS.--Wilhelm v. Oransse,
for example--that is, with fine golden tracery-patterns on deep, rich colours. The figure-painting
is vastly improved--the features now being actually painted and modelled as in modern portrait
painting, not merely indicated by pen strokes. The flesh-tints as previously noticed are bright
and ruddy. The principal colours used on the foliages are blue, crimson, of various depths,
and bright vermilion, with occasional admission of bright green and paled red ochre. Very similar
to 1 E. 9 is Harl. 1892, and among other MSS. that may be studied with this one is 2 A. 18--a
book of Offices, very sweetly illuminated, and full of typical examples of treatment both of
architectural design and treillages of foliage.

The Gothic pilasters are filled with the same kind of coiling and spiral leaves and ribbons
that are used in 1 E. 9 and Harl. 1892, the backgrounds of the miniatures enriched with fine
gold patterns. The furniture and costumes indicate the later years of the reign of Richard
II., being similar to those shown in the miniatures of Harl. 1319, which relates the story
of Richard's misfortunes. A few miniatures of saints accompany the prayers to them. One of
the saints is peculiar, being the Prior of Bridlington, perhaps the "Robertus scriba" who copied
certain theological treatises for the library, and who lived in the time of Stephen or Henry II.

In the beautiful initial D is the figure of a lady praying, the first few words of the prayer
being written on a floating ribbon above her head. A fine panelling of black and gold forms
the background. The lady's costume is that of the end of the fourteenth century, her head-dress
being somewhat lower than that worn in the time of Isabella of Bavaria; in other respects she
recalls the figure of Christine de Pisan in Harl. 4431--one of the fine MSS. of the French
school. As the psalter or offices was once the property of the Grandison family, as is shown
by the numerous entries respecting them in the calendar, no doubt this lady was the first owner
of the MS., and probably the same as shown in the beautiful miniature of the Annunciation previously
given. Many charming initials follow this one, and brightly coloured bracket treillages and
borders are given in profusion, introducing every variety of coloured ideal leaf-form known
to the art of the time. It seems probable from its style and the costumes that the MS. was
executed for the Lady Margaret, widow of Thomas, the last Lord Grandison, who died in 1376,
and given to her by Sir John Tuddenham, her second husband. A better model for the modern illuminator
could not easily be found. Other examples may be briefly enumerated, in 2 B. 8, 2 B. 10, 2
B. 1, 2 B. 12 and 13, 18 A. 12, 18 C. 26, Harl. 1719, 1892, etc. The Psalter 2 B. 8 has the
good fortune to be dated, and its purpose and other particulars clearly set forth in a statement
at the beginning of the volume. The gist of this is that it was composed at the instance of
the Lady Joan Princess of Wales, mother of Richard II., and that it was executed by Brother
John Somour (Seymour), a Franciscan, in 1380. Thus the illumination of it would probably be
done about the time, of the young Queen's arrival in England. The Princess Joan died July 8th,
1385. The work corresponds with this date. The Grandison Psalter is perhaps somewhat later
than Roy. 2 B. 1, and the rest are later still.

One rather fine example is seen in Arund. MS. 109, a folio called the Melreth Missal, because
given by William Melreth, Alderman of London, to the church of St. Lawrence, Old Jewry. He
died in 1446.

For topographical miniature a good example occurs in Roy. 16 F. 2, which contains a grand view
of London, including the Tower, but this MS. is probably not of genuine English production.
Nor is Roy. 19 C. 8, though a very interesting example as regards costume and local usages.
The genuine English work of which Arund. 109 is a type has received the name of Lancastrian,
as falling to the reigns of the three Lancastrian kings--Henry IV., V., and VI.

In the reign of Edward IV. we meet with the introduction of Flemish illumination, which gradually
supersedes the native style, and by the time of Henry VII. the latter has almost disappeared.
Its final extinction, however, was left for the sixteenth century, when either Flemish or Italian
renaissance work entirely took its place. By the time of Queen Elizabeth English illumination
was a thing of the past.

Considering the position occupied by the Roman Empire as the civiliser of Europe, it is not
a little curious and somewhat surprising to find that in the twelfth century, when German and
French artists were doing such good and even admirable work, that of Italy was almost barbaric.
A MS. in the Vatican (4922) is shown as a proof of this. It is not an obscure sort of book
that might have been written by a merely devout but untrained monk for his own use, but a work
of importance executed for no less a personage than the celebrated Countess Matilda. The scribe
was Donizo, a monk of the Benedictine Abbey of Canossa. It is of the early or præ-Carolingian
type, rather inclined to Byzantine, but with the big hands and aimless expression of all semi-barbaric
work. Yet it has a certain delicacy and carefulness. In Rome itself during the ninth century
barbarism was at its very lowest point. Only the sea-port towns had any notion of what was
being done in other places. Painting was practised, it is true, so was mosaic, but the worst
of Oriental carpets would be a masterpiece of elegance beside anything done in Italy. Whatever
gleams of artistic intelligence appear, they certainly emanated from Ravenna or Pavia. But
as there were no wealthy and peaceful courts, no indolent, high-bred, luxurious courtiers during
that dark and troublous period, miniature or illumination had no call for existence. In the
twelfth century book-illustration consisted simply of pen-sketching of the most elementary
kind. The Lombards alone produced anything like illumination. A sort of roll containing pictures
of the various scenes of the Old and New Testaments which represented the leading doctrines
of the Church, and which used to hang over the pulpit as the preacher discoursed upon them,
is the only representative of the time. Such a roll was called an "Exultet" from its first
word, which is the beginning of the line "Exultet jam Angelica turba cælorum" of the hymn for
the benediction of the paschal wax tapers on Easter Eve. Several of these "Exultets" are still
kept in the Cathedral at Pisa, and in the Barberini and Minerva Libraries in Rome.[40] Of course
the pictures are upside down to the reader, so as to be right for the congregation.

[40] See one in British Mus., Add. MS. 30337, and description of it in Journ. of the Archæol.
Assoc. vol. 34, p. 321.

Very little progress was made, as we may imagine, until after the great revival movement begun
by Cimabue, Giotto, and their contemporaries, about the middle of the thirteenth century. But
before taking up any inquiry into Italian work generally we must not omit reference to the
remarkable MSS. produced at La Cava and Monte Cassino during the Franco-Lombard period. Some
idea has already been furnished in dealing with Celtic MSS. and the foundations begun by Columbanus
and his scholars. Indeed, the general character of these Lombard MSS. is seen in the Franco-Celtic.
The distinguishing feature, if there be one, is the frequent recurrence among the interlacements
of the white dog. The La Cava Library, which was one of the finest in Italy, has been transferred
to Naples. Monte Cassino still continues and maintains not only a library but a printing press,
from which the learned fathers have issued at least one great work on the subject of Cassinese
palæography. Of all the præ-Carolingian hands, Lombardic or Lombardesque was certainly the
most peculiar, and is perhaps the most difficult to read. One evidence of this is the diversity
of opinion on the true reading of certain proper names in the original MS. containing the oldest
text of Tacitus which happens to be a Lombard MS. The characters and other examples of the
eleventh to the thirteenth century that have been published at Monte Cassino, however, fully
illustrate the peculiarities of the handwriting, and give besides several splendid examples
of calligraphy.[41]

[41] The La Cava MSS. have been described by P. Gillaume in an essay published at Naples, 1877,
and those of Monte Cassino by A. Caravita, Monte Cassino, 1860-71.

One of the earliest illuminated Italian MS. which bears a date is a Volume of Letters of St.
Bernard, now in the Library of Laon. It is very seldom that the earlier scribes and illuminators
who produced Italian MSS. or worked in Italy were Italians. They were usually foreigners and
mostly Frenchmen, and the art was looked upon at the beginning of the fourteenth century as
a French art. This very decided example of Italian work is already different from the French
work of the same period. The profile foliages have already acquired that peculiar trick of
sudden change and reversion of curve, showing the other side of a leaf with change of colour,
which is a marked characteristic of all fourteenth-century Italian illumination. For examples
of it, the Bolognese Law Books, Decretals, and such-like, afford frequent illustration. Before
leaving this first-quoted MS., we may say that it points to France rather than to Germany or
Lombardy for its general form of design, but the foliages are quite of another kind. Another
Laon MS. (352) shows the same treatment of foliage, but in effect more like what may be considered
as the typical Italian style seen in the famous Avignon Bible of the anti-pope, Clement VII.
(Robert of Geneva), which dates between 1378 and 1394.[42]

[42] See Humphreys, Illum. Books of the Middle Ages, pl. 16; and Silvestre, Paléographie Universelle,
pl. 117.

A further example still more powerful in expression and skilful in manipulation is seen in
a copy of the Poems of Convenevole da Prato, in the British Museum (Roy. 6 E. 9), executed
for King Robert of Naples, a patron of Giotto (1276-1337), which, in comparison with the Laon
Letters of St. Bernard of about the same date, is even still more Italian.

Cardinal Stefaneschi, another of Giotto's patrons, was also a promoter of illumination. His
Missal, now at Rome in the archives of the Canons of St. Peter's, is a fine example of this
style. It dates from 1327 to 1343. The MS. of Boethius at Laon is another. But one of the most
masterly, whether as to design or manipulation, is a law book in the Library at Laon (No. 382).
This grand folio contains "Glossa Ioannis Andreæ in Clementinas"--"The Gloss or Explanation
of Joannes Andreas on the Clementines."

By the way, as illuminated law books, civil and canonical, form so large a section of Italian
MSS., it may be well in this place to warn the reader against random explanations sometimes
offered in sale catalogues concerning these books, their authors and commentators. For instance,
this commentator Joannes Andreas was not, as we have seen it confidently stated (as if it were
part of the actual contemporary title of the MS.), Bishop of Aleria (Episcopus Aleriersis),
but a jurist of Bologna. The bishop lived a century or so after the jurist, who had completed
his long career as professor of law at Bologna extending over forty-five years before the bishop
was born. His chief works are Commentaries on the Clementines (printed in folio at Mayence
1471, and again at Dijon in 1575), and Commentaries on Five Books of the Decretals (printed
in folio at Mayence in 1455, and at Venice in 1581). While on this topic of Italian law MSS.,
it may be useful to state clearly what they are. By way of contrast to the Corpus Juris Canonici,
or Body of Canon Law, the subject of books dealing with the so-called Decretals, the other
branch, including the Institutes Digest and Novellæ of Justinian, was entitled Corpus Juris
Civilis.

The Decretals, then, which we so often meet with in public libraries under various names, are
the canons which mainly constitute the Canon Law. Strictly speaking they are the papal epistolary
decrees (decreta), said to have existed from very early times. In the ninth century a collection
of them was formed, or manufactured, in the name of the celebrated Isidore of Seville. But
with the donation of Constantine to Pope Sylvester and many others in the later compilation
of Gratian, these are usually looked upon as spurious and false. The great and authorised collection
was completed by a simple Benedictine monk of St. Felix, in Bologna, a native of Chiusi, the
ancient Clusium, in Tuscany, a man so learned in the law as to have earned the title of "Magister."
This is the work often richly illuminated which goes by the name of the "Decretum Gratiani."[43]
When glancing over the lovely initials and beautiful foliages or resplendent ornaments, we
are apt to overlook the work itself which is truly monumental; being a summary of the papal
epistolary decrees, the synodal canons of 150 councils, selections from various regal codes,
extracts from the Fathers, and comments of Schoolmen; all methodically arranged and digested
so as to facilitate its use as a manual for the schools. It is said to have occupied the compiler
incessantly for twenty-five years. Immediately on its completion in 1151 it was at once authorised
by the Pope Eugenius III. as the only text-book to be used in the public schools, and to govern
the decrees of the Ecclesiastical Courts. Hence its celebrity. Its transcripts are very numerous,
and it has been often printed. As to the Sext and Clementines they are merely additional commentaries
on supplementary collections of decrees. Thus a new collection authorised by Boniface VIII.
is called the sext, i.e. the sixth book of the Decretals. The Clementines were the constitutions
of Clement V. Other collections such as that of John XXII. are called Extravagantes.

[43] See Add. 15274, British Museum.

The most ancient MSS. of the Decretals bear the title of Concordantia discordantium Canonum
(a "concordance of discordant decrees"); afterwards The Book of Decrees; lastly, The Decretals.
It was considered, however, by some, jurists and others, to be not so much a concordance of
discordant canons as a subjugation of the ancient canons to the decrees of the Papacy, and
as already stated, many of its decrees were found to be false and fictitious. Nevertheless,
it is by no means an uncommon volume among the illuminators. Let us now return to the Laon
example--one of four or five of the species in that collection. The scene where the author
is presenting his work to the pope--we now know them both--is quite a painting. Except for
the defect that kneeling figures are somewhat mis-shapen or ill-proportioned in the lower limbs,
the work is quite comparable with contemporary mural painting, both for composition and colour.
It is almost modern. It is quite realistic. In costume, expression, easy and appropriate attitude,
it has quite outrun French illumination altogether.

Another dated MS. (1332) in the same Library (No. 357), "Rubrics of the Decretals," is a most
amusing example of the universal taste for irony and satire in the initial figures and corner
effigies.

A much-lauded MS. among these fourteenth-century examples is one that has been carefully and
expensively reproduced by the late Cte. Horace de Viel-Castel, namely, the "Statuts de l'Ordre
du Saint-Esprit au Droit Désir ou du Nœud," an order instituted at Naples in 1352 by Louis
I. d'Anjou (called Louis of Taranto), King of Jerusalem, Naples, and Sicily, cousin and husband
of Queen Joanna of Naples. The style of the illumination is precisely the same as those just
mentioned belonging to Laon, and as several MSS. in the British Museum. Its stem and foliage
ornament is very brightly coloured in fine green, scarlet, rose, ultramarine, and gold. The
miniatures which occasionally contain evident attempts at portraiture, are painted in the manner
of the school of Cimabue and the earlier Italian painters, more particularly that of Simone
Memmi. It is substantially the Byzantine manner, but improved and enlivened by attention to
natural attitude and expression. The greenish under-painting of the flesh-tints is often noticeable.
The decorative portions are very skilful and elaborate, as well as extremely neat and symmetrical;
the gold profuse and brilliant. Indeed, the whole production may be studied as a typical example
of its time. The text, though good, is not so beautiful as the Bolognese hand usually found
in Italian MSS. of the following century. But perhaps this should add to its value as a proof
of its being absolutely contemporaneous with the foundation of the Order, and therefore of
its being the identical MS. ordered by the magnificent founder, Louis of Taranto, second husband
of the too-celebrated Joanna of Naples. Their marriage took place in the August of 1346, and
on the 27th of May, 1352, being Whitsun Day, they were crowned. In memory of this happy event,
Joanna founded the Church of the Virgin, Louis instituted the Order of the Holy Spirit, or
of the Knot, the symbols of which appear frequently in the illumination of the MS. It was named
in honour of the Day of Pentecost--"L'Ordre de la Chevalerie du Saint-Esprit." The phrase "au
droit désir" had reference to the circumstances preceding the marriage. The knot was worn in
token of the "perfect amity" of the members of the Order.[44]

[44] See reproduction, published at Paris by Englemann and Graf in 1853, 1. fol.

Other works of the fourteenth century are enthusiastically praised by Italian writers, as,
e.g., those of Don Silvestro, a Camaldolese monk, who flourished at the same time as the illuminator
of this MS. of Louis of Taranto, and who worked on the great choir books of the Monastery "degli
angeli," in Florence, so loudly commended by Vasari and others who had seen them. They have
long been broken up and dispersed, and it is not improbable that cuttings from them were among
those bought by Ottley, Rogers, and other amateurs. A fragment of an Antiphonary of Nocturnal
Services, now in the Laurentian Library at Florence, finished in 1370, shows the style of work
to be of the kind just described. Other great choir books of the earlier period are preserved
in the Academy at Pisa. But the number of MSS. to which reference might be made is legion.
Those of this date are chiefly civil law books; next to these come the canon law, and divinity.
Among the intermediate class are the copies of the Rationale of Durandus, one of these being
in the British Museum (Add. 31032). Now and then a fine Missal, like the "Stefaneschi," or
the Munich Missal of 1374, which may be referred to as being one of the models of the school
of Prag. On the whole, perhaps, the law books are more numerous than liturgical ones, and are
referable generally to Bologna or Padua. The name of Nicholaus of Bologna occurs more than
once in these books. A book of offices of the Virgin, by Nicholaus, is now at Kremsmünster,
and a New Testament, dated 1328, in the Vatican. Tommaso di Modena, another distinguished Italian
illuminator, also had much to do with altering the style of the artists who worked for Charles
IV. at Prag. Some of his work, or work presumed to be his, is still to be seen in the Bohemian
capital. Next to these Bolognese MSS. we may place those of Florence--copies of the Divina
Commedia and the Triumphs and Sonnets of Petrarch, which, with historians and copies or translations
of the classics, chiefly occupied the illuminators of Florence and Siena, with one notable
exception. Whoever has visited any of the North Italian cities cannot fail to have noticed
and admired the magnificent choir-books still to be seen in the cathedrals and cathedral libraries.
At Siena the Piccolomini service-books are truly splendid; those in San Marco, the Riccardi,
the Laurentian, and other collections in Florence, are no less admirable. Verona's best work
is chiefly elsewhere, at Florence, Siena, etc. At Milan the Brera Graduals--each of them a
man's load to carry--are simply gorgeous in the lavish richness of their letters, miniatures,
and decorations. Venice, again, has another grand collection of MSS. of the highest class in
her Attavantes and Gerard Davids; Rome, in a crowd of princely libraries, has multitudes--literally
multitudes--of exquisitely illuminated volumes. Naples also has some noble examples of the
great craftsmen. We have not yet mentioned the Ambrosian Library in Milan, nor, except the
Vatican, a single library by name in Rome. The mere names of the Corsini, Sciarra, Barberini
Libraries are enough to those who have ever explored their contents to remind them of work
that can nowhere else be seen so perfect, so profuse, as in beautiful Italy.

As specimens of local centres the British Museum offers many examples. Thus Add. 15813, though
ordered for Sta. Justina of Padua, was probably illuminated at Venice; 15814 at Bologna; 15260
probably at Ferrara; 18000 at Venice; most of the fragments in 21412 in Rome; 20927 in Rome;
21591 at Naples; 28962 at Naples; 21413 at Milan; the majority of the Ducali, of which the
museum contains a large collection, in Venice. Some of the Spanish-looking MSS. executed for
Alphonse V. of Aragon were actually produced in Naples.

It is not safe to assert that because a work is ordered for a monastery or a prince that the
copyists or illuminators always went to the monastery or palace to do the work, though frequently
they did so. Most of the MSS. executed for Matthias Corvinus, King of Hungary, were produced
in Florence. There was more than one atelier of illuminators in Florence. There were others
in Bologna, others in Rome, and quite a large establishment in Naples. Others resided in Milan,
Ferrara, and Verona. Those at Ferrara lived chiefly at the Ducal Palace. Those at Verona were
the guests of the great Ghibelline leader, Can della Scala, and his immediate successors. Those
at Naples, in the time of Alphonso the Magnanimous, and especially of his son, Ferdinand I.,
were maintained solely for the augmentation and embellishment of the Royal Library.[45] A list
of seventeen copyists, including the famous names of Antonio Sinibaldo, Giovanni, Rinaldo,
Mennio, and Hippolito Lunensis, and of fourteen or fifteen illuminators, all of distinguished
ability, is given by Signer Riccio from the archives of the city. The splendid work they achieved
may still occasionally be met with. In the British Museum (Add. 21120) there is a beautiful
copy of the Ethics of Aristotle, with very peculiar initials and ornaments; and in the National
Library, at Paris, many other very fine examples of Neapolitan work. Of the handwriting of
Mennius we have a fine example in Add. 11912, which is a quarto copy of Lucretius, written
on 160 leaves of vellum. Fol. 1 has a grand border on a gold ground, with a miniature containing
a handsome initial E suspended over the author's head, who is seated at a desk writing. The
first three lines of the text are in Roman capitals, alternately gold and blue. The illumination
is of a transitional character, inclining rather towards the candelabra style of the Milanese
and Neapolitan Renaissance--the Heures d'Aragon, executed for Frederick III., show a similar
taste for candelabra, etc. On the other hand, the initials are of the older white stem type,
with coloured grounds. The writing is a small and very neat Roman minuscule, and dates probably
about 1485, or between 1480 and 1490. The penmanship of Hippolito Lunensis appears in Ficino's
Translation of Plato; also in the British Museum, Harl. 3481, and in Add. 15270, 15271.

[45] Riccio, C.W., Cenno Storico dell Accademia Alfonsina. Naples, 1865.

The Heures d'Aragon referred to above are a rich example of the Neapolitan Renaissance preserved
in the National Library at Paris. Writers on Italian miniatures are very numerous, and a good
deal of interesting information about Italian MSS. may be found in M. Delisle's Cabinet des
MSS., etc.

There is one style of Italian illumination made very popular by the illuminators of the works
of Petrarch, many of which are found in various libraries. That is the one called the vine-stem
style. It consists of gracefully coiled stems, usually left uncoloured or softly tinted with
yellow, and bearing here and there peculiar ornamental flowerets, while the grounds are picked
out with various colours, on which are fine white triads of dots or traceries in delicate white
or golden tendrils. A later variety of this style makes the stems of some pale but bright tint,
and the grounds of deep colour. The vine-stem style seems to have prevailed throughout the
whole of Italy just previous to the classic revival brought about by the Medici in throwing
open their museums of sculptures, coins, and other antiquities, and by the liberal patronage
of the new classic work by Matthias Corvinus, King of Hungary, and the Dukes of Urbino. After
1500 the vine-stem style seems to have gradually died out, and thenceforward only varieties
of the revived antique became the fashion.

To the Italian Renaissance we shall revert in a later chapter. We may now make a new start
with Frederick II., the eccentric, resolute, intractable, accomplished Stupor Mundi (1210-50).
Not only was he a patron and encouraged art, but also an author. The work which he composed
is still extant, and is preserved in the Vatican Library under the title De arte venandi cum
avibus. Paintings of birds and hunting scenes embellish its pages. The art is not specially
high class, and though in courtesy it may be called German, seeing that he was the German Emperor,
and in some respects is like the Imperial MSS. of the Saxon period, in point of fact it is
Italian or Sicilian.[46] This Sicilian school is peculiar, and exhibits very slight traits
of relationship with the rest of Italy. After the Arab conquest of the island in 827, whilst
new ideas were imported, still the old Greek cities kept their ancient traditions and methods
in art, especially in those branches we term industrial, and just as both Greek and Arabic
tongues existed as vernaculars beside the Latin, so the arts and industries bore the features
of three artistic tastes.

[46] (Bibl. Vatican, Palatina, No. 1071). Notice in Kobell, Kunstv. Miniaturen, p. 44.

The silk-weaving of the Greek craftsmen was embellished with the designs of embroidery from
Damascus, and these were mingled with patterns in which the foliages of Carolingian and German
origin are distinctly traceable. Examples of the kind of manufacture here referred to may be
seen in the robes of the Emperor Henry II., still preserved in the Cathedral Treasury at Bamberg.
Also the coronation mantle of St. Stephen of Hungary, husband of Henry's sister Gisela--originally
a closed casula covering the body, but now an open cloak richly embroidered with figures of
prophets, animals, and foliages, and even portraits of the King and Queen. It has sometimes
been thought, from the inscription on its border, that, like the Bayeux tapestries of Queen
Matilda, the needlework was from the Queen's own hand; but no doubt both these attributions
are mistaken.[47] Still more Saracenic in taste are the mantle and alb now in the Imperial
Treasury at Vienna, of the twelfth century, and executed at Palermo. Sicilian in some respects
is intermediate between Italian and German, hence we deem this a proper place to speak of it,
and rather as a transient phase than a style, for it perished with the Hohenstaufen dynasty.

[47] See description in Bock, Die Kleinodien des heiligen Römisches Reichs, pl. 17.

The cruel tyranny of the cold-blooded despot, remembered, but execrated, in Sicily as Charles
of Anjou, extinguished the last scintilla of native art, and when the Italian revival of the
thirteenth century took place, it was confined entirely to the North, except when such patrons
as Robert or Ferdinand or Alfonso encouraged Tuscan artists by inviting them to Naples. Palermo
was no longer of importance, though a capital, and Sicily existed merely as a portion of the
kingdom of Naples.

Let us pass, then, to the great German capital. Changes here, too, have taken place. It is
not Bamberg but Prag, for the Imperial crown has passed from the House of Suabia through the
Hapsburgs to that of Luxembourg, and among its territories is the picturesque old city with
its historic bridge and gate-towers, a Slavonic not a German city in its origin. The ten German
circles of Suabia and Franconia, Westphalia, Bohemia, and the rest did not as yet exist--they
were the later creation of Maximilian; the Fatherland consisted of some two or three hundred
dukedoms, counts, marquisates, and lordships, all absolute sovereignties, but all pledged to
support the Holy Roman Empire. Very thinly, perhaps, but still the Imperial sceptre meant a
real supremacy, and in the hands of such emperors as Henry of Luxembourg, a supremacy maintained
with real and becoming dignity.

Prag, as we have said, is in a Slavonic country, and one sometimes hostile to the Empire. It
was the capital of Bohemia. In 1310 its King was John, the restless son of the new Emperor
Henry VII. of Luxembourg. Hence we find it at the moment we begin the study of its art a nominally
German city. Shortly before this time were produced several examples of German work; as, for
instance, the "Minnelieder," with more than a hundred miniatures of hunting scenes and similar
outdoor amusements, which are useful as studies of costume, but otherwise of little interest.
But it is not until 1312--the new King being then, for the sake of acquiring the crown, though
only, it is said, thirteen years of age, already the husband of the Princess Elizabeth, the
late King's second daughter, yet neither a favourite with his wife nor with her father's people--that
the Abbess of St. George's in Prag, the Princess Cunigunda, composed a Passionale, richly illustrated
with interesting miniatures. The saints, histories, and allegories are painted in tender water-colours,
the architectural details being in Gothic taste. It is still preserved in the University Library
at Prag, No. xiv., A. 17.[48] The Emperor Charles IV., son of the valorous but impracticable
John (born 1316, died 1378), and who has already been spoken of in connection with English
illumination, was the founder of the Bohemian school, or, rather, of the school of Prag. Owing
probably his fine tastes and many accomplishments rather to his mother than his father, he
devoted himself to art and literature, inviting painters and scholars from other countries
to reside in the Bohemian capital. For the Collegium Carolinum, of which he was the founder,
he caused many noble volumes to be executed, and among the vast treasures and curiosities of
his celebrated Schloss Karlstein was a fine collection of illuminated MSS. In the Museum at
Prag and other local libraries are still kept some relics of his library. The "Liber Viaticus"
of Bishop John of Newmarkt--the "Orationale" of Bishop Arnestus (under French influence)--the
"Pontificale of Bishop Albert von Sternberg" (in the library of the Præmonstrant Monastery
of Strahow)--the Missal of Archbishop Ozko von Wlaschim (library of the Metropolitan Chapter
in Prag)--the Evangeliary of Canon John von Troppau (Johannes de Oppavia), written and illuminated
at Brunn, in Moravia, now in the Imperial Library at Vienna. All these illuminated MSS. are
examples of the great variety of styles in which the Bohemian colony produced their work under
the auspices of their liberal patron, yet not without peculiarities which mark the individuality
of the artist. Thus while the Orationale of Arnestus is almost French, the Passionale of Cunegunda
is entirely free from French influence. For costumes the Weltchronik of Rudolf von Ems, 1350-85,
and now in the Royal Private Library at Stuttgard, is almost an encyclopædia. Similar is the
"Legenda Aurea" of 1362 in the Public Library at Munich (Cod. Germ. 6). A very interesting
MS. with miniatures of costumes and curious usages is the "Bellifortis" of Conrad Kyeser (Göttingen,
Public Library, Philos., No. 63). The Evangeliary of Troppau is most beautifully written; its
text is a model of elegant and perfect penmanship; its ornaments distinctly Bohemian. Three
or four Prag MSS. executed for Charles's son Wenzel (1378-1409) are, it may be said, typical.
Of these the grandest, though incomplete, is the illuminated Bible, called the Wenzel Bible,
executed by order of Martin Rotlöw for presentation to the Emperor. The choice of illustrations
in this singular performance are rather more than on a par with the woodcuts of the great English
Bible of Cranmer. The "Wilhelm von Oranse" of 1387, now in the Ambras Museum at Vienna (No.
7), affords splendid examples of the fine embroidered and richly coloured backgrounds we so
often see towards 1400 in English MSS., and the Golden Bull of Charles IV., also in the Imperial
Library at Vienna (j. c. 338), has the softly curling foliages variously coloured, which form
the characteristic difference between the French and English illumination of the fifteenth century.

[48] Wocel, Mittheil. der Central.-Commiss., v., 1860, p. 75, with illustrations.

Another rich example of German as distinct from French or Italian work of this period is the
grand Salzburg Missal now at Munich (Lat. 15710). When we reach the fifteenth century German
illumination begins to grow gaudy, especially in the revived taste for parti-coloured border-frames,
in which green and scarlet are often to be seen. The Kuttenberg Gradual at Vienna (Imp. Lib.,
15501) is of the Bohemian type. Now and then a MS. will show the influence of Westphalian treatment
of foliage--and, again, of the school of Cologne or Nuremberg or Augsburg. These all differ,
whilst still keeping an unmistakable German character. The Hildesheimer Prayer-book at Berlin
points to Cologne. The Frankendorfer Evangeliary at Nuremberg is characteristic of that city.
The Choir-book of St. Ulrich and Afra in their abbey at Augsburg is typical of its locality.
The Missal of Sbinco, Archbishop of Prag, inclines to Nuremberg rather than Prag (Imp. Lib.,
Vienna, No. 1844). It is eighty years earlier than the Augsburg and Hildesheim MSS. Passing
actively onwards, we find illumination still in vogue in the sixteenth century, notwithstanding
that Germany was the cradle of the printing press.

In fact, it seems to wax more and more sumptuous--the books more profusely ornamented than
ever. The Missal and Prayer-book of Albert of Brandenburg, Archbishop of Mainz, once at Aschaffenburg,
executed about 1524 are among the finest productions of the illuminator's art. While perhaps
we may complain that design has given way to profusion and the border flowers and insects--a
contemporary characteristic of Netherlandish art also--are neither more nor less than portraiture
applied to flowers, fruits, and the insect world. The larger miniatures are modern paintings,
including portraits, differing in nothing but dimensions from the works of the greatest masters
of the schools of painting. In ignorance of the strict rules of the gilds, some writers have
gone so far as to say that miniatures also such as these were the work of the Van Eycks, the
Memlings, and the Lucas van Leydens of our public galleries. This particular MS. was the work
of a famous Nuremberg miniaturist, one of a distinguished family of artists--Nicolas Glockendon.

A very similar, but perhaps still richer, MS., is the Prayer-book of William of Bavaria, still
kept in the Imperial Library at Vienna (No. 1880), painted by Albert Glockendon. It is one
of the most exquisite volumes possibly to be met with. A Prayer-book in the British Museum
(Add. 17525), though far inferior, may give some idea of the sumptuous character of the Glockendon
work.

The first Archbishop of Prag, Arnestus or Ernest von Pardubitz, was an industrious collector
of MSS. and employed many scribes. Another of the famous patrons in Prag was Gerhard Groot,
who employed one of the best penmen to copy St. John Chrysostom's Commentary on St. Matthew.
In 1383 he founded at Deventer the famous House of the Brothers of the Common Life, who made
a business of transcribing books; and, indeed, so profitably, that, for instance, Ian van Enkhuisen
of Zwolle received five hundred golden gulden for a Bible. On account of the goose-quill which
the brothers wore in their hats, they were familiarly known as the Brethren of the Pen.[49]

[49] Wattenbach, Schriftwesen im Mittelalter, p. 264.

In speaking of the Netherlands we have to bear in mind that some portions of what are now called
the Netherlands were once parts of Germany, while others were parts of France. In the thirteenth
century Netherlandish art was simply a variety either of Northern German or Northern French.
The earlier schools of Flanders and Hainaut, and perhaps of Brabant, belong rather to France,
while Holland, Limburg, Luxembourg, and the Rhine districts were more inclined towards Germany.
But as soon as the schools of Ghent and Bruges and other Burgundian centres began to assert
their claims, it was speedily apparent that they had an individuality of their own. In no country
had the study of nature a more direct influence on the character of illumination. The allegorical
method which so long had characterised both French and German art was promptly abandoned, and
direct realism both in figure and landscape became the prevailing characteristic. Symbolism,
it is true, remained in the representation of cities and other generalities of pictorial composition,
but the details were in all cases direct imitations of contemporary facts. Half a dozen soldiers
or houses might indicate an army or a city, and even some particular army or city named in
the text, but the individual soldiers, though representing the army of Alexander or Roland,
would wear the equipment or armour of the artist's military acquaintances, or his overlord's
own company. The city, whether Ghent or Bagdad, would consist of the same sort of houses peaked
and parapeted, the same towers and pinnacles that the illuminator saw before him in his daily
walks. His conception of a scene from Scripture history would probably be framed more or less
upon the traditions of the schools transmitted from the Sphigmenou Manual or the master's portfolio
of "schemes," but while a prophet, an angel, or a divinity would wear ideal raiment, Abraham
and Pharaoh would be arrayed in the costume of a contemporary burgomaster, and an almost contemporary
French king. In one memorable instance, we are told, so realistic was the scene that Isaac
was about to be despatched with a horse-pistol; and in another, representing the birth of Cain,
Adam was bringing to the French tester bedside a supply of hot water from the kitchen boiler
in a copper saucepan. This kind of anachronism, it is true, is to some degree chargeable on
all early work; we see it among the early Italian painters no less frequently perhaps, but
mostly accompanied with so much of allegory or imagination that we scarcely notice it, or if
we do, we wink at it as part of the times of ignorance. It is really a mark of over-haste to
be truthful, or at least to be understood, and at the worst it is no more than the natural
rebound from the evil constraint of the old Byzantine tyranny over scheme and costume and invention.
It is often truly diverting in its very insouciance. But its priceless value to us--and here
the same remark applies to all styles of pictorial art before the fifteenth century--is the
ocular record of dress, architecture, implements of peace and war, incidents of daily life,
etc., for which no Encyclopædia Britannica of verbal explanation could ever be more than the
poorest makeshift. As we say, this same happy anachronism is common to other schools of illumination,
and we cannot fail to notice it from Byzantium to Britain, but it is the intense realism of
the Netherlands that forces it upon us so strongly that we are bound to speak of it.

The oldest notice of illuminated work in the Netherlands is in a Benedictine chronicle of the
ninth century, where mention is made of two ladies, daughters of the Lord of Denain, named
Harlinda and Renilda,[50] who were educated in the convent of Valenciennes. "In 714 they left
their native province to found a monastery on the banks of the Maas--among the meadows of Alden
and Maas-Eyck. They there consecrated their lives to the praise of God and the transcription
of books, adorning them with precious pictures."[51] About the year 1730 an Evangeliary of
great age was discovered in the sacristy of the church by the Benedictine antiquary, Edmond
Martène, which on good ground has been attributed to the two sisters. The MS. is still in existence,
and was exhibited in Brussels in 1880. It is a small folio, and contains a great number of
miniatures in the Carolingian or, perhaps more strictly, Franco-Saxon manner. On the first
leaf is a Romanesque colonnade of arches surmounted by a larger one. Under the smaller arches
are the figures of saints, demons, and monsters, and in the tympanum scrolls of foliage and
birds. Between the columns are the reference numbers to the chapters.

[50] Or Relinda.

[51] Bradley, Dict. of Miniaturists, ii. 87.

The evangelist portraits are dignified and saintly, recalling the earliest work of the Byzantine
school and that of the catacombs. Draperies and other details are heavy, dull, and ill drawn.
In short, the work is of the same class as the early Carolingian. The blue, red, green, and
gold of the borders, etc., have all kept their brilliancy.[52] It is somewhat curious that
the Van Eycks, the founders of Flemish painting, were natives of this little town--then, doubtless,
pretty and rural, now a busy place of breweries, oil-factories, tanneries, and other fragrant
nuisances. Some miles further northward lie Deventer and Zwolle and Kempen, the land of the
Brothers of the Pen, and of the immortal Thomas à Kempis. There is a style of calligraphic
ornament deriving its origin from these Northern Hollandish foundations such as Zwolle, which
is confined almost entirely to the painting of the initial letters and the decorating of the
borders with flourished scrolls of penwork very neatly drawn and terminating in equally neat
but extremely fanciful flowers finely painted. It seems to have been brought at some time from
the neighbourhood of Milan, where a similar kind of initial and exceedingly neat penmanship
also is found in the choir books. Many South German choir books are similarly ornamented, so
that it is not easy to say at once where the work was done. The Dutch illuminators, however,
may usually be recognised by the Netherlandish character of the miniatures combined with neat
and sometimes rigidly careful penmanship in the scrolls and tendrils and a hardness in the
outline of the flowers. Sometimes the large initials are entirely produced by the pen, the
labyrinthine patterns in blue or vermilion being filled in with circlets, loops, and other
designs with infinite patience and excellent effect. Some of the border scrolls are exceedingly
pretty, and the borders differ from Flemish in mixing natural flowers painted in thin water-colours
with the more conventional flowers painted with a different medium, not in the later Flemish
manner where the flowers are frankly direct imitations of nature, and painted in the same medium
as the rest of the illumination.

[52] See Messager des Sciences, etc., 110, 1858, and Deshaines, L'Art Chrétien en Flandre,
34 (Douai, 1860, 8°).

After the Maas-Eyck Evangeliary the work of these northern foundations may well reckon either
with the French or German schools until the fifteenth century. Where otherwise they are not
distinguishable, the Netherlandish miniatures are usually such as prefer plain burnished gold
backgrounds to diapered ones, or have a plain deep blue paled towards the horizon, and lastly
replace the background by a natural, or what was intended to be a natural, landscape. As a
test between French or German influence generally, the use of green shows the latter, that
of blue the former. Not that this was any æsthetic point of difference in taste, but somehow
the Germans had the green paint when the French had not, and so they used it. It is an open
question whether Flanders or Italy first introduced the landscape background, but Flemish artists
were so numerous, so ubiquitous, that we can hardly say where they were not at work--in France,
Italy, or Spain. Plenty of so-called Spanish illumination is really the work of Flemish craftsmen.
This was largely owing to the political conditions of the times. The Dukes of Burgundy and
the Austrian Archdukes both ruled over Flemish municipalities, and employed the gildmen as
their household "enlumineurs." And, of course, the success of the Van Eycks, Rogier van der
Weide (de la Pasture), Derrick Bonts, and Hans Memling, stirred up the spirit of rivalry among
the illuminators. They all worked in the same minutely, careful manner, and one could almost
take a corporal oath on the identity of illuminations and panels which are really the work
of different artists. Even yet the illuminations of the Grimani Breviary are attributed in
part to Hans Memling--and no wonder! Only the best qualified judges can distinguish them. It
is known that Gerard David of Oudewater, in Holland, a master painter, belonged also to the
gild of miniaturists. But no miniatures are known to be from the hands of either Ian, or Hubert,
or Marguerite van Eyck, or Hans Memling. The supposed identifications are merely guesses. But
while this is so there is still no lack of illuminators, not to mention the illustrious few
who were employed by the brothers of Charles V., King of France; and when we come to the days
of his grandson, Philip of Burgundy (1419-67), we might name quite a crowd of distinguished
illuminators. From 1422 to 1425 Ian van Eyck was "varlet de chamber" to Duke John of Bavaria,
first bishop of Liége, and Regent of Luxembourg, Holland, and Brabant. In 1425 he passed into
the service of Philip. He died in 1440. In court service there were besides, Jean de Bruges,
David Aubert, Jean Mielot, Jean Wanguelin, Loyset Lyeder, and others connected more or less
closely with the Maas valley and the province of Limburg. This valley seems to have been the
cradle of Netherlandish miniature art. It is from this neighbourhood that Paris was supplied
with craftsmen in the days of the brilliant if reckless administration of the uncles of Philip
the Good. There were schools of illuminating artists in Maestricht and Liége, and within a
very brief period the style of the Netherlander surpassed that of all competitors for facility,
clearness, and realism. A marked feature in this mastery is the free use of architectural and
sculptural design. All Gothic draperies are in some degree sculpturesque, and in miniatures
we find sculpture to be the ruling principle. Perhaps it was the practice of uniting the crafts
of painter and "imagier" in one person that fostered this peculiarity. But certain it is that
Netherlandish illumination, in its border foliages, after the taste for the larger vine and
acanthus leaf had superseded the ivy, the drawing is studiously sculpturesque. Many of the
Gantois borders are like undercut wood carvings. Even as to colour we find either the gilded
wood brown or the stone grey, quite as frequently as gayer colours, and much more so than any
natural green. The after-fashion for grisailles or camaieu gris has reference probably rather
to stained glass than to carving. Before the fifteenth century we do not often meet with individual
illuminators by name, but in the Limburg Chronicle under 1380 is this entry: "There was at
this time in Cologne a celebrated painter (he was probably a native of Herle in Limburg), the
like of whom was not in the whole of Christendom," and more to his praise. His name was Wilhelm.
In the municipal expense book, under 1370-90, page 12, is written, "To Master Wilhelm for painting
the Oath Book, 9 marks." The Oath Book still exists, but unfortunately the miniature has been
cut out.[53]

[53] Woltmann, Hist. of Painting, Eng. transl., i. p. 412.

Of course, it may be expected that some of the best examples of Netherlandish illumination
are to be found in the Royal Library at Brussels. The Bibliothéque de Bourgogne, as it is called,
contains, indeed, a great number of them. Some, of course, may be classed as Burgundian. There
are, for instance, the grand "Chroniques de Hainaut" in three immense folio volumes, written
from 1446 to 1449 (Nos. 9242-4). Also Jean Mansel's "Fleur des Histoires" in three grand folios
(Nos. 9231-3), written about 1475. The frontispiece to the "Chroniques" shows the Duke Philip
with his son the Count of Charolais receiving the work from the author, perhaps the best illumination
in all three volumes.

Another (9245), the Book of the Seven Sages of Rome, is an example of the last quarter of the
fourteenth century. Still another (9246), the History of St. Graal, or of the Round Table,
is dated 1480. A Missal and Pontifical (9216, 9217) shows miniatures dating about 1475.

But other public libraries also possess admirable examples. The Imperial Library at Vienna
possesses a most masterly production in the fragments of a folio Chronicle of Jerusalem (No.
2533), in which both figures and architectural details are most delicately and minutely finished,
so that the miniatures form a most valuable treasury of costumes, armour, and architecture,
correctly drawn and exquisitely painted. The figure of Baldwin, King of Jerusalem, shows the
pointed toes which Anne of Bohemia is said to have introduced into England. At Vienna, also,
is the richly illuminated History of Gérard de Roussillon in French (No. 2549). At Paris we
find the "Champion des Dames" (No. 12476). On either side are scenes from the story, and beneath
a symbolical crown is the motto of Philip's grandfather, Philip le Hardi, aultre n'aray. The
same motto appears in the Chronicle of Jerusalem at Vienna, and on the velvet of the daïs of
Isabella of Portugal, Philip's third consort.

It may be interesting to note, as a means of distinguishing these Burgundian princes or their
MSS., that the arms of Philip II. the Good differ from those of his father, during the latter's
lifetime, by having in chief a label of three points, and from those of his grandfather, Philip
the Bold, by having an inescutcheon of pretence on the centre of the arms of Margaret de Maele,
first assumed by his father, John the Fearless, that is, "or, a lion rpt. sa; for Flanders."
As we have just said, many of the MSS. claimed as Netherlandish may be classed as Burgundian.
The difference lies mainly in the miniatures. Where the latter are manifestly French with the
mixed Brugeois borders, they may pass as Burgundian; but with similar borders yet distinguishably
Netherlandish, that is, broad-nosed, square-jawed, and excited faces as compared with the finer
features and placid expression of the French artists, the work may still be Burgundian, but
it will be also Netherlandish. The individuality of Netherlandish illumination above every
other quality establishes its identity. Look at the expression of the onlookers in a Crucifixion,
or a Christ before Pilate, or a Stoning of St. Stephen--the diabolical ferocity, the fiendish
earnestness, the downright intentional ugliness put on some of the characters are in direct
contrast to the sweet indifference, the calm complaisance, and blank unconcern of a crowd as
shown in similar scenes by French illuminators.

We have seen something of the earlier kind of Netherlandish MSS. in those already referred
to. It now remains to take a rapid glance at a few of the later ones, and here the difficulty
is that of selection.

In 1484 Gerard David appears on the list of illuminators of Bruges,[54] and it appears that
he, and not Hans Memling, was the painter of those marvellous miniatures in the Grimani Breviary
at Venice usually attributed to the latter, and therefore may be considered as one of the founders
of the school of Bruges, or at least of the later style that may be referred to the Grimani
Breviary as its most perfect example. Executed in much the same manner is a Book of Offices
in the British Museum, containing portraits of Philip the Fair and his wife, the unhappy Juana
la Loca, son and daughter-in-law of the Emperor Maximilian. Similar, again, are the "Offices
of the Elector, Albert of Brandenburg," possibly the work of the same artists who produced
the Grimani Breviary. There are also some fragments in a guard-book in the British Museum (Add.
24098), which may compare with any of the preceding examples. But perhaps to many book-lovers
no better specimen of the highest class of Netherlandish art could be more welcome or more
interesting than the celebrated copy of the "Roman de la Rose," also in our great national
collection (Harl. 4425). This justly famous MS. is a real masterpiece in every department,
whether we consider the expression in its miniatures or the consummate technical skill displayed
in the drawing and colour of the borders. These secondary embellishments consist of fruit,
flowers, birds, beetles, and butterflies. But, of course, the great interest of this book lies
in its miniatures, scenes from the poet's allegory, and in the little statuesque figures of
the various characters in the poem.

[54] Cf. his "Judgement of Cambyses" in the museum at Bruges.

Two marvellous little volumes there are in the National Museum at Munich (861-2) which are
surely unapproachable. One of the borders in 861 consists of the eyes of peacock feathers so
absolutely perfect that we can only wonder at its rainbow hues and pearly sheen of colour.
Something similar to it exists in a fragment (No. 4461) in the Victoria and Albert Museum at
South Kensington. The "Isabella Breviary" of the British Museum (Add. 18851) ought not to pass
unmentioned, but space forbids us to add more on this inexhaustible topic. There is, however,
the class of work alluded to early in the chapter, and in that on French work, which must be
at least mentioned. We refer to what the Italians call chiaroscuro and the French grisaille;
i.e. painting executed in tones of grey, in which the lights are given in white or gold and
the backgrounds in rich blue. Occasionally the draperies and ornaments also are touched with
gold, and the flesh tints as in life. Grisaille is not limited to Netherlandish illuminations.
We find it both in French and Italian, but perhaps it is among the Netherlandish books we meet
with it most frequently. Several examples are to be seen in the Royal Library at Brussels,
and there is at least one in the British Museum (Add. 24189). There must have been communication
with Italy going on the whole time that Cimabue and Giotto, Memmi and the rest were astonishing
their fellow-citizens with their divine performances. The roads from Lyons, Poictiers, Dijon,
and Paris were well known, and frequently trodden by both artists and merchants as well as
by soldiers. The Renaissance, therefore, was no sudden convulsion. Perhaps a very careful examination
of some of our Burgundian MSS. might reveal the presence of notions derived from Italian travel,
for it is in the details of ornament that we find the traces of a new movement, and when the
great change of style is clearly noticeable it is when the habits of society themselves have
been remodelled, and when the once strange and foreign element has become a familiar guest.

In the fixing of schools and centres much is owing, of course, to the residential choice of
princes, on whose patronage depends the very existence of art. This explains the schools of
Bruges and Dijon, of Paris and Tours, for while the earlier dukes of Burgundy and the earlier
kings of France had lived at Bruges and Paris, the later dukes had preferred Dijon, and Louis
XI., Charles VIII., and Louis XII. lived mostly at Tours. So that while Dijon became the new
centre of Burgundian illumination, Tours became to the new movement from Italy what Paris had
been at the commencement of the Gothic period. Tours, in fact, became the centre of the Renaissance.
The influence of Dijon was on the wane, Burgundy itself was going down. Michel Coulombe, the
great Breton sculptor, who had been trained at Dijon, left it for Tours, and probably illuminators
and other artists followed his example. As we know from examples, the Burgundian art of Dijon
had the Flemish stamp strongly marked--the Flemish artists had a way of making strong impressions.

Tours, on the other hand, had had an entirely different training. The artists of Touraine had
no shadow of Flemish influence in their practice. Their sculptures, enamels, colour-scheme
were of another bias. Their stamp came from Italy, and if not so deep as that of Flanders or
Dijon, it was equally inevitable and more permanent.

The first name that we meet with among the illuminators of Touraine who are expressly connected
with the Renaissance is that of Jean Fouquet. Of his origin or training nothing seems to be
known, but he was born probably about 1415. He must have acquired distinction even as a youth,
for some twenty-five years afterwards (1440-3) he was invited to Rome to paint the portrait
of Pope Eugenius IV., and he stayed in Italy until 1447. On his return to France he was made
valet de chambre and painter to Charles VII. at Tours, and continued in the same office under
Louis XI. It was part of the business of the paintre du roy to design and provide decorations
and costumes, banners and devices for all state ceremonies, and this became Fouquet's duty
at the funeral of Charles VII., and when Louis instituted the Order of St. Michel in 1470,
and the last trace of him as an artist occurs about 1477. His sons, Louis and Francis, were
both painters, and, like himself, worked much at the illumination of books. It is curious that
this great master--one of the greatest miniaturists of any school, and one of the founders
of the French school of painting--became entirely forgotten until the discovery of some fragments
of a Book of Hours painted for Estienne Chevalier, the King's treasurer.

Forty miniatures of the most masterly description came into the hands of M. Louis Brentano-Laroche,
of Frankfort-on-the-Maine. Their uncommon excellence led to a most diligent search for information
respecting the artist, which resulted in the unearthing of many other examples of his unequalled
pencil. We now know of a dozen most precious examples. Besides the Brentano miniatures, two
other fragments of the same Book of Hours have been found, and several large and important
MSS. Among these we may name the "Antiquities of the Jews," by Josephus, in the National Library
at Paris (MSS. Des. 6891), and a Book of Hours, executed for Marie de Clève, widow of Charles
Duke of Orleans, in 1472. Attributed to him are the "Versailles" Livy (Nat. Lib., Paris, 6907);
the "Sorbonne" Livy (fds. de Sorb. 297). A Livy in the public library at Tours also passes
under his name, and the famous "Boccaccio" of Estienne Chevalier at Munich, containing ninety
miniatures, is also confidently assigned to him. Other MSS. that are imputed to him are probably
the work of his sons or scholars.

The Paris Josephus is generally considered his masterpiece. The volume (which contains only
the first fourteen books) is in folio, written most beautifully in two columns, and is adorned
with miniatures, vignettes, and initials, but much of its interest lies in the note at the
end, placed there by Robortet, secretary to the Due de Bourbon: "En ce livre a douze ystoires
les troys premieres de l'enlumineur du duc Jehan de Berry, et les neuf de la main du bon paintre
et enlumineur du roy Loys XIe Jehan Foucquet, natif de Tours." And we gather from another note
that the book had been entrusted to Fouquet for completion by Jacques d'Armagnac duc de Nemours.
A further note informs us that the book belonged to the Duc de Bourbon. It seems to have been
one of the rich presents made by the Due de Berry to Jacques de Nemours. The first three miniatures
are by the illuminator of the Duc de Berry, and this artist was probably Andrieu Beauneveu,
though other illuminators did work for him, as Jacques de Hesdin and Pol de Limbourg. The fourth
miniature is by Fouquet, and represents a battle; the rest to the seventh are either not his
best work or else the work of his pupils, but the seventh on folio 135 gives us a good idea
of Fouquet at his best. It represents David receiving with his crown the news of the death
of Saul. The eighth, ninth, and tenth are very fine, but the eleventh M. Paulin Paris (MSS.
du Roy) thinks the most beautiful of all. Its subject is the clemency of Cyrus towards the
captive Jews in Babylon.[55] Of the other MSS. space forbids us reluctantly to forego description.

[55] See Mrs. Mark Pattison's (Lady Dilke) The Renaissance in France, i. 273, etc.; Bradley,
Dict. of Miniaturists art. "Fouquet," i. 346.

The characteristics of the school of Tours as seen in the work of the greatest of its expositors
is (1) The clearly marked influence of Italy and the antique. (2) A masterly understanding
of French landscape (see fine instances of this understanding also in "Trésor des Histoires,"
now in the British Museum, Cott., Aug. 5). (3) A complete freedom from Gothic influence and
from the domination of the school of Bruges. The colours for which Fouquet seems to have a
preference are, first, a clear orange-vermilion, supported by golden brown and gold, clear
blue and green, lemon-yellow; and then, as a contrast, grey of various tones in walls and buildings,
soft landscape greens, and aërial tints of distance and sky. Perhaps the technical skill of
Fouquet has never been surpassed. It is so perfect that some have tried to explain it by supposing
that he was trained in a Flemish studio. His sons and pupils continued his methods, and thus
while Paris remains under the influence of Flemish masters, Tours was carrying forward a quite
different type of traditions.

The Valerius Maximus (Harl. 4374) of the British Museum will give an idea of the later Paris
school. Its date is about the end of the fifteenth century.

We ought not in this place to forget the influence brought into French art through the marriage
of the murdered Duke of Orleans with Valentina of Milan, not only directly through books and
artists, but by the hereditary transmission of that love of art and beautiful things for which
Valentina and her family were well known. It was in art, letters, and books that the widowed
princess sought such consolation as was possible.[56] In her best days she had united in herself
a seductive grace of carriage, beauty of person, and dignity of rank, which made her the ornament
of the French Court. She was almost the only one about the unfortunate Charles VI. who could
influence him in his moments of mental aberration. Coming from the luxury of the most splendid
court in Italy, she brought into France the most refined taste in matters connected with the
arts. The inventory of her jewels at the time of her marriage includes three Books of Hours,
three German MSS., and a volume called Mandavilla. Like her husband she was an employer both
of copyists and illuminators, and before her death had collected at her Castle of Blois a very
fine collection of beautiful books.

[56] She assumed as her impresa the chantepleure, with the sorrowful motto: "Plus ne m'est
rien: rien ne m'est plus."

Her son Charles, the poet, inherited her tastes, and added to her collections. We are not surprised,
therefore, to find her grandson Louis, afterwards Louis XII., supporting the great artistic
movement which he and his Queen Anne of Brittany helped so effectually to identify with the
Court of France.

About the time that we hear the last of Fouquet we have the earliest notices of another illuminator
who plays an important part in the illuminations executed for Anne of Brittany, the noble and
gifted Queen of France, and wife, first of Charles VIII. and then of his successor, Louis XII.

In 1472 Jean Perréal is entrusted with the glass paintings of the Carmelite church at Tours.
Lemaire, in his Légende des Vénitiens, calls him a second Zeuxis or Apelles. During the reigns
of Charles VIII. and Louis XII. he is the chief artist of the time: In 1491, and perhaps earlier,
he is engaged in the usual duties of a valet de chambre, i.e. designing and preparing the requisite
devises, arms, and banners for public functions. In 1502 he went to Italy. In 1509 his name
occurs in connection with that of Jean Bourdichon, of whom we shall hear more when we come
to the work done for the Queen. In 1523 in the household of Francis I. he is still valet de
chambre. Twenty-four years previously it was as valet de chambre that he prepared the decorations
for Louis XII.'s entry into Lyons. On the death of Anne of Brittany also he performed similar
duties, and again on that of Louis XII. He even came to England in 1514, sent by Louis XII.,
to superintend the trousseau of Mary Tudor, "pour aider à dresser le dict appareil à la mode
de France," previous to her wedding journey to Paris.[57] Four months afterwards he was summoned
to direct the funeral obsequies of Louis himself. No illuminated work can be really identified
as the work of Perréal, but Mrs. Patteson (Lady Dilke) strongly urges the probability that
he painted the Bible Historiée of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, bequeathed by General
Oglethorpe.[58] She considers it quite the sort of work that would grow out of that of Fouquet,
and dwells upon the fact of his official duties as valet de chambre giving him just that minute
facility in the decoration of armour and furniture in the miniatures which the MS. displays.
Whether this be so or not, it is certain that the Bible Historiée is a fine example of the
school of Tours.

[57] See Vespas, b. 2 (Brit. Mus.).

[58] See her Renaissance of Art in France, i. 303.

Another court painter and valet de chambre to Louis XI. and his successors was Jean Bourdichon,
an artist born at Tours in 1457, and therefore as a youth probably one of the scholars in the
atelier of Jean Fouquet. For this by virtue of the said order of the King and by quittance
of the abovenamed written the 5th April One thousand four hundred and eighty (milcccciiiixx)
after Easter, here rendered the sum of £19 1. 8."

[59] Comptes de l'Hôtel de Louis XI., 1478-81.

Another quittance shows him to have been employed on the decorations of the château of Plessis
les Tours. We may easily see how it is that these artists, when they came to illuminate the
books entrusted to them, had such special knowledge of embroideries and decoration of armour
when we read in the accounts how they were constantly employed in designing dresses for weddings,
tournaments, and funeral obsequies, and making "patterns for the dress and equipment of war."

A notice in 1508 tells us that Anne of Brittany made an order of payment to Bourdichon of 1,050
livres tournois for having "richly and sumptuously historiated and illuminated a great Book
of Hours for our use and service to which he has given and employed much time, and also on
behalf of other services which he has rendered hitherto." This refers to the celebrated "Hours
of Anne of Brittany," now in the National Library at Paris.

This volume, peerless of its kind, has been reproduced in colour lithography by Curmer of Paris--the
result, however, is disappointing from the flat and faded look of the prints as compared with
the brilliancy of the original pages. The MS. is an invaluable monument of French Renaissance
illumination. It is French of Touraine rather than of Paris, yet bearing traces in its flowers
and fruit borders of Flemish modes of ornament. It has also reminiscences of Italian painting.
But the French neatness and restraint from over-decoration have kept it in a manner unique.
It has not quite the softness of Italian, and is far from the intensity of Flemish. Indeed,
its fault, if it be faulty, is in its want of force. With the exception of Anne's own portrait
given with her patrons, St. Anne, St. Helena, and St. Ursula. The Queen's gown is of brown
gold brocade trimmed with dark brown fur. Her hair is brown, like the fur. She wears a necklace
of gems set in gold. On her head is a black hood edged with gold and jewels, beneath which
and next her face is a border of crimped white muslin, She has brown eyes and finely pencilled
eyebrows. As to nose and mouth, she and the two younger saints are pretty much alike. With
the allowance of blue for black, St. Anne wears the dress of a Benedictine abbess. A dark crimson
cloth covers a table before which the Queen is kneeling, and on which lies open a finely illuminated
Service-book. The Calendar which follows this portrait is for each month enclosed in a margin
of ornament. To the outer margin of every other page of the book is placed a broad tablet or
pilaster containing flowers, fruits, insects, etc., from five to six inches high, each having
the Latin name of the plant, etc., at top in red, and the French one in red or blue at the
bottom. These names may have been put in later. It must be admitted that the fruits, flowers,
and insects are painted with the greatest care and neatness, though sometimes a little assisted
by the imagination of the painter. The text and initials are rather heavy and commonplace.
Now and then a border surrounds the text completely, where flowers or fruits are scattered--somewhat
recklessly at times, but usually with good design--over a ground of plain gold, on which the
branches, etc., cast heavy shadows. This part of the design is certainly Flemish. Where "histories"
occur the border is a plain brown gilt frame within a black border. Undoubtedly the "Hours
of Anne of Brittany" is a very precious volume. The figure subjects are of various degrees
of excellence. The four evangelists are vivid, and recall the portraits of Ghirlandaio, and
it is to Italy also that the illuminator is indebted for his architectural and sculptural details.
Yet Bourdichon is inferior to Fouquet in colouring, as the latter is to the Italians in design
and composition. Perhaps he is most successful in his flowers and insects. "Nothing," said
Muntz, "is less like the elegant foliages of Ghirlandaio and Attavante, and nothing is more
worthy of being put in comparison with them."[60]

[60] La Renaissance en Italie, etc., 547-8.

An illuminator of the name of Jehan Poyet is said to have assisted in the "Hours," thus while
Bourdichon painted the miniatures, Poyet put in the flowers and fruit, etc.; but this share
of work is by some believed to belong to a smaller Book of Hours executed for the Queen. Flowers
and fruit are said to have been Poyet's speciality, and it is quite possible that he may have
had the painting of the borders of the "Grandes Heures," while Bourdichon did the rest. The
writer of the MS. was another native of Tours, named Jehan Riveron. During the reign of Francis
I. the school of Tours was removed to Paris because the Court had settled there. Louis XII.
had died in the Hôtel des Tournelles, and Francis, though full of plans for plaisances elsewhere,
lived mostly in Paris. Fontainebleau is the dream of the near future. Il Rosso, the Italian
architect, painter, poet, and musician, was busy there amid a crowd of other artists from Florence
and Rome--the refuse of a once brilliant sodality. It was the frivolous, pretty, graceful side
of Italian art that came northward in that great migration--the graver and more dignified elements
were left behind. To see what Italian art became in France, we have only to enter the Grand
Gallery at Fontainebleau, and we see it at its best in architecture, sculpture, and painting.
And we cannot help admiring it, for it is amazingly beautiful. Yet it is not Italian--the Italian
of the Medici and Farnese palaces. Il Rosso was neither a Michelangelo nor a Carracci; but
he set a fashion. He changed the face of art for France. Nor was it in painting and sculpture
only. The Italian passion for devises, anagrams, emblems, and mottoes became the rage in Paris.
It first came in with the return of Charles VIII. from his Neapolitan campaign. Louis XII.
adopted the hedgehog or porcupine, with the motto "Cominus et eminus." His Queen Claude's motto
was "Candida candidis." The Princess Marguerite's emblem was a marigold or heliotrope; others
assigned her the daisy. Her motto: "Non inferiora secutus." The well-known emblem of Francis
was a salamander--why, is a mystery--with the motto, "Nutrisco et extinguo." All this entered
into the taste of the illuminator, and elegant cartouche frames--probably of Dutch origin,
as we see in the old map-books of Ortelius Cluverius and Bleau, imported by Ortelius and his
friends into Italy, and made use of by Clovis, and thence transferred to France--were made
into border-frames for miniatures, varied with altar-forms, doorways, and other fanciful frameworks
from the new architecture decorated with flowers, ribbons, panels, mottoes. Another new thing,
too, no doubt afforded plenty of suggestion to the illuminator. This was stained glass. Jean
Cousin was in his glory in glass-painting; Robert Pinagrier also. But it was Cousin who adopted
the new Italian ideas, and whose works were models for the illuminator. In the backgrounds
and details of his glass-paintings at Sens, Fleurigny, Paris, and elsewhere, we may trace his
progress; and an excellent model, too, was Jean Cousin. He has other claims to remembrance
in sculpture, engraving, authorship, but it is as the glass-painter that his influence is seen
in illumination. Indeed, Mr. A.F. Didot strongly urged the probability that Cousin was himself
the illuminator of the splendid Breviary or Hours of Claude Gouffier.[61] The drawing is in
his best manner, the frame-border of caryatides in camaieu is of a richness of ornamentation
in keeping with the rest of the volume. The arms and motto of Gouffier are painted in it. It
is objected that Cousin's name does not appear in the Gouffier account-books, while those of
other artists are given. But only a portion of the accounts is extant. Cousin may, perhaps,
only have designed the book, and the other miniaturists carried out his designs. At any rate,
the accounts give us the names of three miniaturists which we may here record--Jean Lemaire,
of Paris (1555), Charles Jourdain, and Geoffroy Ballin (1359). These "enlumineurs" are stated
to have decorated two Books of Hours for Gouffier's wedding. As a good example of the style
employed in the decoration of title-pages, we may quote the chimney-piece of the Château d'Anet,
executed for Diane de Poitiers, where a sculptured marble frame surrounds a painted landscape.
Many of the books of the time of Francis I. and Henry II. are ornamented in this style.

[61] Now belonging to M. le Vicomte de Tanzé.

In the British Museum are several fine MSS. illustrative of this period of French illumination,
viz. Add. 18853, 18854, and 18855. These three MSS. formed part of the purchase which included
the Bedford Offices. 18853 is a Book of Offices executed apparently for Francis I. In some
of the borders is a large F with the Cordelière of the third Order of St. Francis and a rayed
crown, and on folio 97 v. a large monogram consisting of the letter F, with two crossed sceptres
and palm branches, surmounted by the crown-royal of France.

Nothing is known of the history of the MS. from 1547 to 1723, when it was in possession of
the Regent Philippe d'Orléans. Possibly it had remained as an heirloom in the family. Philippe
gave it to his natural son the Abbé Rothelin, a great lover of rare books and a noted collector,
at whose death it was bought by Gaignat, another collector, who sold it to the Duc de la Vallière,
and so, step by step, it came at length to Sir John Tobin, of Liverpool, and thence to the
British Museum.

The partly sculpturesque character of the border-frames are of the kind just referred to, with
festoons and garlands of flowers, and drapery, monograms, and emblems in full rich colours;
the architecture and other ornaments sometimes finished with pencillings of gold. The miniatures
are of excellent design and colour, finely modelled, and quite in the manner of the paintings
of Fontainebleau. The text is a combination of Jarry-like Roman with italic. It may be compared
with 18854, similar in some respects, but the smaller miniatures and the frames look more like
the older school of Tours. This MS. is also a Book of Offices, and was written for François
de Dinteville, Bishop of Auxerre, in 1525, as appears from an inscription in gold letters on
fol. 26 v.

Some of the border-frames are drawn in sepia, others in red-brown or burnt siena, and highly
finished with gold. The writing is a small Roman hand. On the whole it is richer in illustration
than 18853, but not so perfect in drawing, yet it is a very fine MS. Sometimes it has a border
like those in the "Hours of Anne of Brittany." On fol. 26 v. is a curious border of twisted
ribbons covered with mottoes, such as "Virtutis fortuna comes", "Ingrates servire nephas," etc.

Some of the tiny miniatures of the saints in the Memoriæ are very charmingly painted: St. Mary
Magdalene, for instance, on fol. 147 v. The pillar architecture of some of the borders, with
pendant festoons of flowers, is also very handsome.

18855, folio, is a Book of Offices written in a Gothic text. The miniatures are large full-page
paintings within architectural frames or porches, with coloured pillars or pilasters with panels
of rich blue, covered with golden traceries, bronze gold pendants at side,--occasional borders
as in the "Hours of Anne of Brittany." The work is of the older school of Tours, but loaded
with ornamental details from North Italian pilaster-work. Among the best miniatures are the
Nativity (34 v.), the Adoration of the Magi (42 v.), and the Bathsheba. The last perhaps a
little too open a scene for a lady's bathroom, but placed within a most gorgeous architectural
window or doorway (fol. 62 v). Compare also Harl. 5925, No. 574, for a title-page of French
Renaissance style from a printed book, which suggests Venice as the source of the style of 18853.

In the National Library at Paris are, of course, a number of this class of MSS., such as the
Offices (MS. Lat. 10563), "Officium Beatæ Mariæ Virginis ad usum Romanor" (1531), or the exquisitely
painted "Heures de Henry 2d" (fds. Lat. 1429), or the magnificent "Epistres d'Ovide" of Louisa
of Savoy (fds. fr. 875), and others.

By no means of less importance we may cite the beautiful volume belonging to the late Comte
d'Haussonville, now in the Musée Condé at Chantilly, called the "Heures du Connétable Anne
de Montmorency," and the "Heures de Dinteville" (MS. Lat. 10558), the decoration of which is
quite on a par with the "Heures de Montmorency," or those of Henry II., also the Psalter of
Claude Gouffier (Arsenal Lib., 5095), containing the Psalms of Marot.

It is scarcely worth while to carry the subject further. What is done later than Francis II.
does not grow finer or better: it only becomes more overloaded with ornament, too much gold,
too much richness. Even foliages are often variegated like pearls, or change gradually from
colour to colour on the same sweep of acanthus as in a MS. in the British Museum attributed
to Pierre Mignard ("Sol Gallicus," Add. 23745). Compare also the "Heures de Louis XIV." Now
and then an exceptional work, like that of D'Eaubonne at Rouen, belongs to no particular school.

Since all the best and best-known work of Spanish or Portuguese illuminators was executed in
the sixteenth century, and is manifestly a reflection with peculiar mannerisms of either Flemish
or Italian illumination of the same period, it may seem almost superfluous to devote a separate
chapter to the subject. Yet there is a goodly list of both Spanish and Portuguese artists who
practised the art of illumination.

So early as the time of Isidore of Seville we find notices of libraries, copyists, and the
like (see book iv. of his Encyclopædia), and an able writer of the last century, Don José Maria
de Eguren, published a work on the MS. rarities of Spain.[62] The most important of the miniatures
in the famous Codex Vigilano are also reproduced in "El Museo Español de antiguedades," most
interesting respecting the calligraphy and miniature art of the eleventh century.

[62] Memoria de los Codices notables conservados en los archivos ecleseasticos de Espana. Madrid,
1859, L. 8°.

One of the earliest instances of royal patronage bestowed on painting in Spain is a document
in the Royal Library at Madrid, containing the expenses of King Sanchez IV. in 1291-2. Thus
"to Rodrigo Esteban, painter of the king for many paintings done by the king's orders in the
bishop's palace 100 golden maravedis." Again, in the archives at Barcelona we find that Juan
Cesilles, painter of history, was engaged 16th March, 1382, to paint the "History of the twelve
apostles for the grand altar of the Church at Reps for 330 florins." In 1339 one Gonzalez Ferran
had some reputation both as a wood engraver and a painter. He was probably a miniaturist. In
1340-81, Garcia Martinez, a Spanish illuminator, worked at Avignon. A copy of the Decretals,
dated 1381, in the Cathedral Library of Seville is by his hand.

In the fifteenth century we have many notices of painters, especially in Toledo, whither the
taste was in all likelihood brought from Naples after the conquest of that kingdom by Alphonso
V. of Aragon in 1441.

It has been observed by those familiar with native Spanish art that its chief characteristic
is that it is gloomy. This may be so, but it is not fairly chargeable to the artists but to
the tyranny of the Spanish Inquisidor, who laid the embargo on the illuminator that he should
not follow the wicked gaiety of the Italians, nor the sometimes too realistic veracity of the
Flemings. This accounts usually for backgrounds of black where the Fleming would have had rich
colour or gold for the prevalence of black in the draperies and for the sombre tone in general
of Spanish painting. It is not always in evidence, as may be seen in many of the miniatures
of the famous choir-books in the Escorial. The sombre period began under Ferdinand the Catholic,
and it has left its mark on the schools of the fifteenth century. The sixteenth began a new
era, and under Philip II. several, both Netherlandish and Italian, miniaturists were invited
to assist in the production of the enormous choir-books ordered by the King for San Lorenzo
of the Escorial, between 1572 and 1589. The volumes are bound in wooden boards covered with
leather, stamped and bossed with ornaments of gilded bronze. It is said that 5,500 lbs. of
bronze and 40 lbs. of pure gold were used in the bindings. The actual dimensions of the volumes
are 115 by 84 centimetres. Every volume has at least seventy folios, and every folio is splendidly
illuminated, thus affording more than 30,000 pages covered with richly ornamented initials,
miniatures, and borders. The illuminators and copyists of these choir-books were Cristobal
Ramirez, who planned the work, fixed the size and other details of the volumes and the character
of the handwriting, Fray Andrés de Leon, Fray Julian de Fuente del Saz, Ambrosio Salazar, Fray
Martin de Palencia, Francisco Hernandez, Pedro Salavarte, and Pedro Gomez. Ramirez was engaged
at the Escorial from 1566 to 1572. In the latter year he presented a Breviary with musical
notation to the King, and was then engaged for the great undertaking mentioned above.

Andrés Cristobal was also an illuminator of note at Seville, where he worked from 1555 to 1559.
Andrés de Leon worked at the Escorial from 1568, and is especially mentioned by Los Santos
in his well-known description of the monastery of San Lorenzo: "Son de gran numero y excelencia
las iluminaciones que tienen de mano nuestro Fray Andrés de Leon, que fue otro Don Julio en
el Arte."[63] The allusion is to the celebrated Don Giulio Clovio, then in the height of his
fame in Italy. Fray Julian received similar praise for a capitolario for the principal festivals
of the year, especially for the grand dimensions of the miniatures, the like of which the writer
says had never been seen before, either in Spain or Italy. Andrés de Leon died at the Escorial
in 1580. Salazar continued working on them till they were completed, and in 1590 went to Toledo,
where he finished two Missals for the Cathedral, which had been begun by the famous Juan Martinez
de los Corrales. He was still engaged on similar work until his death in 1604. Two other illuminators,
Esteban and Julian de Salazar, were working at the Escorial in 1585. Bermudez[64] mentions
Fray Martin de Palencia as having executed a volume in a fine handwriting and with beautiful
miniatures for the monastery of Saso. Thus we see there were numerous miniaturists in Spain
in the latest years of the existence of the art that had been imported chiefly from Italy.

[63] Fr. Francisco de los Santos, Description breve del Monasterio de S. Lorenzo el Real del
Escorial, 24.

[64] Diccionario, iv. 24.

After most of these great choir-books had been finished there were still others in progress.
In 1583 Giovanni Battista Scorza of Genoa, who is celebrated in the "Galleria" of the Cavaliero
Marini, was invited by the King to take part in his great choir-book scheme. Scorza was then
thirty-six years of age, and in the height of his reputation as a painter of small animals
and insects. After a little time he returned to Genoa, where he lived to be ninety years old.
He had a brother, Sinibaldo, who was equally skilful in miniature, and especially in scenes
from history. The Scorzas were pupils of Luca Cambiaso. It may be noticed that all this work
in miniature, although so late in its own history, is accomplished before the greatest names
in Spanish painting are known. Josefo Ribera was born in 1588; Zurbaran in 1598; Velasquez
in 1599; Alonzo Cano in 1601; Murillo in 1617. This, in a sense, is the natural course of things,
as, generally, illumination has preceded the other kinds of painting.

With regard to Portugal, very little is recorded that does not in some way connect itself with
Spain. So we find that Antonio and Francesco de Holanda, seemingly of Netherlandish origin,
are mentioned in relation to the books illuminated for the Royal Monastery of Thomar; Francesco
also worked for the monastery of Belem. Francesco de Holanda was a great admirer and imitator
of Clovio, but he always insisted that his father Antonio was the inventor of the method of
"stippling," as the finishing with minute points of colour is technically called, which was
brought to such perfection by Clovio and his scholars and imitators.

Taken altogether, the work of the Spanish illuminators at the Escorial and those of Toledo
and Seville is really the same, with just the variations we might expect from pupils and imitators,
as that of their masters in Genoa, Rome, Venice, or Bruges. Examples of it may be seen occasionally
in diplomas, such as are found in the British Museum and other public libraries, as, e.g. Claud.
B. x. Lansd. 189, Add. 12214, 18191, 27231, etc.

In 1572, the same year in which Luiz de Camoens published his Lusiades, an accomplished calligrapher,
Miguel Barata, published an elaborate treatise on his own art, then in high repute.

In the fourteenth century the Cancioniero of Don Pedro Affonso Ct. de Barcellos affords an
example of the calligraphy (for which Spain and Portugal have always been famous) and illumination
which is precious for the student. It is still in existence in the Palace of Ajuda. Its date
is 1320-40. And there are MSS. in the Torre do Tombo of Lisbon that are richly illuminated.
Again, in Seville there is the "Juego de las Tablas," executed under Alphonso the Wise in 1283,
with its Gothic arcades and ornaments. M. Joaquin de Vasconcellas has made a study of this
MS. The miniatures of the Torre do Tombo of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries are mostly
of the French school.

About 1428 33 was executed a splendid MS. entitled "Leal Conselheiro," which is attributed
to a famous miniaturist in his time named Vasco. It is, however, simply a monument of penmanship,
as it contains no miniatures. The MS. has been edited by L'Abbé Roquete in 1842. The Portuguese
MSS. of the fifteenth century betray a decided Flemish influence, as well they may, for probably
the producers of them were Flemings. Constant intercourse with the Court of Burgundy had something
to do with this.

The "Chronica do descobrimento e conquista de Guiné," now at Torre do Tombo, is clearly a Flemish
work. It was begun about 1440, and finished in 1453. The portrait of the Enfante Don Henrique,
called the Navigator, is set in a border evidently by a pupil or imitator of J. Van Eyck. The
calligraphy of the MS. is most beautiful. This influence of the Netherlands on Portuguese art
is, indeed, confirmed by the political diplomatic relations of the fifteenth century, and is
of some importance in the history of art. We shall refer again to this matter when dealing
with another MS.

Among all the calligraphic monuments of Portugal it is claimed that the most splendid is the
"Bible of the Hieronymites." (See Revista universal Lisbonense, 1848, pp. 24-8.) This work,
it is said, was a present from the Court of Rome to Emanuel, successor of John II., in remembrance
of the homage made to the Holy See, of the first gold brought from the Indies, but the story
is very doubtful. The King, in bequeathing the seven volumes to the convent of Belem, says
nothing about such an origin. They are manifestly in great part the work of foreign artists.
One well-known miniaturist, Antonio de Holanda, the father of the better-known Francesco, took
part in the work, and having a good conceit of his own abilities (we shall probably hear of
him again), reserved an entire volume to himself in order to give proof of them. The seven
volumes which then were covered with crimson velvet and silver bosses and enamels, are now
simply bound in red morocco. In the middle of each cover are the arms of Emanuel King of Portugal.
Vols. v. and vii. have those of Dona Isabel, his Spanish wife.

The initials and ornaments show that the art of Italy is freely mixed with that of Portugal.
Indeed, from the signatures in the volumes it is seen that the work of the penman was Italian;
vol. i. being written at Ferrara by Sigismundo de Sigismundis, the well-known Italian calligrapher,
in 1495. The second volume, also finished in 1495, bears the name of Alessandro Verazzano,
another famous copyist, who wrote several of the volumes illuminated by Attavante. Vol. iii.
is dated 1496, and is unsigned. The next three volumes are also without signature. Vol. vii.
is the work of Antonio de Holanda, who from his name appears to have been of Dutch descent.
His work is certainly excellent, and renders this volume a very precious monument of the art
of Portugal. He was the official herald of the King, and he and his son Francesco gave their
whole time to the practice of illumination. His son's Memoirs give a most interesting account
of his travels and intercourse with Giulio Clovio and the other Italian artists whom he met
with in Rome.[65] For some years the Hieronymite Bible was in Paris, having been brought thither
by Marshal Junot, where it remained unnoticed for several years. Being called for by the Portuguese
Government, Louis XVIII. paid 50,000 francs to the family of Junot, and restored it to the
monastery of Belem. A splendidly illuminated atlas by an illuminator and cartographer named
Fernando Vas Dourado was published in the year of his death, 1571.

[65] See my Life of Clovio.

As an important example of what we may fairly call native art, we will now briefly refer to
the celebrated Missal of Estevam Gonçalvez Neto, one of the productions of the busy second
half of the sixteenth century. The clever amateur who achieved this beautiful series of paintings,
for paintings they are, in addition to the writing and other ornamentation of the MS., was
descended from a noble family of Sêrem, in the parish of Macinhata, forty-three leagues from
Lisbon. He became Canon of Viseu, and during his leisure, after this appointment, executed
the Pontifical Missal which bears his name. It is dedicated to Don Josè Manuel, of the House
of Tancos, Bishop of Viseu, afterwards of Coimbra, and lastly Archbishop of Lisbon. This prelate
gave the book to the Church of Viseu. The original MS. was afterwards in the library of the
Convent of Jesus, and is now in the Academy of Sciences at Lisbon. Stephen Gonsalvez died July
29th, 1627. The Missal is signed: "Steph. Glz. Abbas Sereicencis fac. 1610." It has been very
well reproduced in colours by Macia, of Paris.

The "Genealogies of the House of Sandoval," written and painted in Lisbon in 1612, is now in
Paris. It is called "Genealogia universal de la Nobilissima casa de Sandoval Ramo del Generoso
tronco de los soberanos Reyes de Castilla y Leon. Por Don Melchior de Teves del Conseio Real
de Castilla del Rey D? Philippe III."

At the foot of the page is written "Eduardus Caldiera Vlisspone scripsit, Anno Dni MDCXII."
This magnificent MS., which measures forty-six by thirty centimetres, is numbered in the Catalogue
of the National Library as 10015. A grand frontispiece, formed of two columns of the Composite
Order, occupies the first page, representing a king in royal robes and crown arresting the
wheel of Fortune. Two lions accompany the scene, and the motto of the picture is "Virtute duce
non comite Fortuna." Page 2 contains the various escutcheons of the family of the Count of
Lerma, for whom the book was written. It contains a great number of portraits. A final instance
of the influence, or rather the inroad, of Flemish art in Portugal in the fifteenth century
may be shown in the MS. called the Portuguese Genealogies in the British Museum.

The work consists of eleven large folio sheets separately mounted and measuring eighteen by
ten inches. It commences with a prologue, with the arms of Portugal supported by two savages,
having clubs and shields. Outside the inner frame are three scenes: (1) wild animals in combat;
(2) a sea-nymph being rescued; (3) a fight among sylvan savages. Next comes a series of portraits
painted in the most finished and life-like style, beginning with Dom Garcia F° del rey Abarca
and Dona Constancia on a fruitful tree with foliage, fruits, and birds, a cat, and other things.
The tree is an oak, beside it are apple and cherry trees. On the oak are green acorns. The
birds are very beautiful, the cat simply perfect. These details recall the highly finished
and lovely work of Georg Hoefnagel on the great Missal at Vienna. Gothic brown-gold architecture
and three battle scenes complete the page.

Then follow the genealogical tables, and more portraits, the whole showing the most patient
and careful work. Letters on the borders of the robes recall the same kind of ornament in the
Grimani Breviary at Venice. No one has been able to explain these curious inscriptions. In
the Grimani Breviary they were thought to be either Croatian or merely ornament. Here they
cannot well mean anything but decoration. The portraits are fanciful but interesting mementoes
of the period, and include several personages noted in history.

The last MS. to be mentioned in this hasty sketch is one in the British Museum (Stowe 597).
It is a "Missale Romanum," and is said to have been illuminated for John III. in 1557. It was
once the property of the Abbé Gamier, chaplain for near thirty years, of the French factory
at Lisbon. The binding is red morocco, and once had silver clasps.

It commences with a large mirror-like oval tablet, containing the title, set between two pillars
of pink-veined marble with bronze-gold capitals and bases. The tablet is crimson with a violet-slate
frame moulding of egg and dart pattern. At foot are two Roman legionaries, one seated as supporting
the tablet, on each side. On folio 3 is the index in a rose-wood panel and pale green frame.
The peculiar forms of the frames and the scroll-work on them are of the fantastic kind, differing
from Italian, which is characteristic both of Spanish and Portuguese ornament. The chief colours
are a bright emerald green and blue, with ochre, gold, and crimson. The initials are still
more fantastic--partly human, partly plant or fish-form, sometimes sculptured ornament and
plant-forms combined--but all so sweetly painted and so delicately finished as to be most attractive.
The text is a fine and elegant Roman minuscule interspersed with italic.

Here and there are exquisite little drawings of ecclesiastical utensils, etc., but the everlasting
variety among the quaint and fanciful initials provides an unwearying fund of interest. Tiny
birds of the loveliest plumage sit among and beneath the limbs of the letters, or elegant scrolls
of pencilled gold cover the little coloured panels on which the plain gold Roman initials are
placed. Some of the larger initials are very finely executed and contain full-length figures
of saints, bishops, or queens. One lovely initial B has a graceful girl simply clad in blue
tunic and pale yellow skirt with a silken coil of pale rose forming the upper loop of the letter,
the lower being formed of the curved body of a green dragon. Her left hand lifts the silk-work,
her right, hanging by her side, holds a little golden pitcher. The whole is painted on a panel
of bright gold. Another (L) shows a peasant rushing laughingly, with a hare slung over his
shoulder, past the figure of a guardian terminus of bronze. But the Missal should be seen to
be properly understood, for though in a general way it has a look of Italian influence, its
originality is beyond question.

The art of printing, as the reading world has been frequently informed, was invented in the
fifteenth century, and undoubtedly had, to a considerable extent, a destructive effect upon
the craft of professional copyists. But in the fifteenth century the art of the writer and
that of the illuminator had long been separate professions. There was no particular reason,
therefore, why the invention of printing should interfere with the illuminator. As a matter
of fact, it made little difference. Nor, indeed, did printing entirely put a stop to the professional
career of the scribe. It was prophesied, before practical experience of facts proved the contrary,
that the invention of the railway engine would abolish the horse. The printing-press did not
abolish the penman, but it certainly spoiled his trade. We have seen in the course of the preceding
chapters that it did not spoil the trade of the illuminator. Nor was it quite owing to the
fact that many printed books were so adorned as to appear like illuminated MSS. More than one
wealthy patron absolutely declined to have anything to do with printed books. The matter was
too vulgar and too cheap. The last Duke of Urbino was a prince of this lofty way of thinking,
and scarcely a court in Europe but continued to have MSS. produced as if no such thing as the
printing-press were known. How they were multiplied in Spain and France we have seen in detail.
We will now proceed to take a farewell look at the German and Italian libraries, in order to
see how the illustrious presses of Mainz, Strassburg, Augsburg, Köln, Munich, Vienna, Venice,
Milan, Florence, and Rome affected the ateliers of the great schools of illumination established
in most of these cities. What do we find? In point of fact, some of the richest, most magnificent
books ever produced by the illuminator, not only whilst the press was still a novelty, but
long after it had become perfectly familiar to everybody. For several of the cities aforesaid
we have the means of proof: thus for Mainz, at the end of the superb copy of the Mazarine Bible,
now at Paris, is the following inscription: "Iste liber illuminatus, legatus and completus
est henricum Cremer vicari? ecclesie collegiate Sancti Stephani Moguntini sub anno dni Melesimo
quatring entesimo quinquagesimo Sexto, festo assumptiois gloriose Virginis Marie. Deo gratias
alleluya." This was in 1456, the year before the first press was set up. In 1524 we have two
most splendidly illuminated MSS.--a Missal and a Prayer-book--executed by order of Albert of
Brandenburg, Archbishop of Mainz. Two richer examples of the German Renaissance cannot easily
be imagined. We cannot dilate upon them. We may, however, truly say that together with very
many other examples of illuminated work, both in manuscripts and printed books, they show the
art of the illuminator to be no less splendid or elaborate after the invention of printing
than it was before.

On the last page of the Missal is written: "Ich Niklas Glockendon zu Nurenberg hab dieses Bhuch
illuminiert ond vollent im jar 1524."

The Prayer-book is similarly adorned with miniatures and brightly coloured borders. On the
cover is a copy of the Archbishop's portrait, painted by Dürer, and on folio 1 is written by
the Archbishop himself: "Anno domini MDXXXI completum est presens opus, Sabbato post 'Invocavit.'
Albertus Cardinalis moguntinus manu propria scripsit."

Other Glockendon books exist in other libraries. Then there is the Beham Prayer-book at Aschaffenburg
and a Bible in the library at Wolfenbüttel in two thick 4° volumes--a work well worth examination.
At Nuremberg is the Service-book executed by Conrad Frankendorfer, of Nuremberg, in 1498.

In the British Museum is the fine German MS.--the Splendor Sous, a sixteenth century MS. (Harl.
3469).

In the National Library at Paris is the Prayer-book of William of Baden (10567-8) executed
at Strassburg by Frederic Brentel in 1647.

Augsburg was producing illuminated Service-books ten years after Günther Zainer had set up
the press in that city.

Munich, also, with the Penitential Psalms, etc., by Hans Mielich. Vienna, too, can show a magnificent
Missal by Georg Hoefnagel, bearing the dates 1582 to 1590. Venice is represented in the work
of Benedetto Bordone and the Ducali. Florence in the splendid Missals, etc., of Attavante and
his contemporaries.

Milan shows the gorgeous Graduals of the Brera belonging to the sixteenth century and the Sforziadas
of London and Paris. So we might pass from city to city almost all over Western Europe. The
great Spanish choir-books were almost all produced under Philip II. Several Papal Service-books
are represented in the fifteenth-and sixteenth-century examples of the scrap-book 21412 of
the British Museum; and the works of Clovio, the most noted of Italian illuminators, all belong
to the sixteenth century.

These instances are amply sufficient to prove that in every city in Europe where printing was
in full practice the art of the illuminator continued to flourish until the progress of modern
inventions and various processes, added to the general cheapening of books, led to its disuse.
Its present application seems to be almost solely to diplomas and testimonials, and in point
of quality, usually as poor and spiritless as the incapacity of most of its professors can make it.

There seems, however, no reason why the artistic skill and elaborate methods of reproduction
of the present day should not produce magnificent books--indeed the "Imitation" of Thomas à
Kempis, and other continental examples prove that this is amply possible.

The next few years will probably show that readers are still desirous of possessing beautiful
books, and that artists are still found capable of producing them.

MANUSCRIPTS THAT MAY BE CONSULTED AS EXAMPLES

(Partly taken by permission from the Victoria and Albert Museum Handbook)

CLASSICAL AND EARLY CHRISTIAN

--+------------- +-------------------------+---------+---------------------
No|    Name.    |   Where    | Where Kept. |  Date.  |      Remarks.
  |             |  Produced. |             |         |
--+-------------+------------+-------------+---------+---------------------
 1|Vergil       |......      |Vatican Lib.,|3rd or   |Doubtful which is the
  |(fragment)   |            |Rome, Cod.   |4th cent.|older
  |             |            |Vat. 3225    |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 2|Vergil       |......      |Vat. Lib.    |4th cent.|"
  |             |            |3867         |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 3|Rom.         |......      |Imp. Lib.,   |"        |
  |Calend.(f.)  |            |Vienna       |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 4|Genesis (f.) |......      |"            |5th cent.|Gold and silver text
  |             |            |             |         |on purple vellum; 88
  |             |            |             |         |miniatures.
  |             |            |             |         |
 5|Genesis (f.) |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |Much burnt in 1731.
  |             |            |Cott. Oth. B.|         |
  |             |            |6            |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 6|Iliad (f.)   |......      |Ambros. Lib.,|"        |Fine handwriting and
  |             |            |Milan        |         |clever pictures.
  |             |            |             |         |
 7|Joshua (f. of|......      |Vat. Lib.,   |......   |15 leaves, 32 ft.
  |Roll)        |            |Rome         |         |long, 11 in. wide.
  |             |            |             |         |Contains from ch.
  |             |            |             |         |222 to 1018, brush
  |             |            |             |         |outlines to
  |             |            |             |         |miniatures. Rivers,
  |             |            |             |         |etc., personified in
  |             |            |             |         |Byzantine manner.
  |             |            |             |         |
 8|Dioscorides, |......      |Imp. Lib.,   |c.     |Personifications of
  |etc.         |            |Vienna       |500-5    |abstract qualities.
  |             |            |             |         |
 9|Bible of     |......      |Laurent.     |c. 540 |Valuable as a
  |Montamiata   |            |Lib.,        |         |theological document,
  |             |            |Florence     |         |but poor work, and in
  |             |            |             |         |bad condition.
  |             |            |             |         |
10|Syriac       |Monastery of|"            |c. 586 |Brought to Florence
  |Gospels      |Zagba, in   |             |         |in 1497. Remarkable
  |             |Mesopotamia |             |         |Crucifixion, see
  |             |            |             |         |Byzantine, 1.
  |             |            |             |         |
11|Terence      |......      |Nat. Lib.,   |9th cent.|Copy of a 5th-cent.
  |             |            |Paris        |         |MS. pen-drawings.
  |             |            |             |         |
12|Pentateuch   |Tours       |Nat. Lib.,   |7th cent.|Called the Ashburnham
  |             |            |Paris, Nouv. |         |Pentateuch; 19 large
  |             |            |acq. 2334    |         |miniatures.

BYZANTINE

--+-------------+------------+-------------+---------+---------------------
No|    Name.    |   Where    | Where Kept. |  Date.  |      Remarks.
  |             |  Produced. |             |         |
--+-------------+------------+-------------+---------+---------------------
 1|Syriac       |Zagba, in   |Laur. Lib.,  |c. 586 |Shows Byzantine
  |Gospels      |Mesopotamia |Florence     |         |influence.
  |             |            |             |         |
 2|Gospel-book  |Byzantium   |Brit. Mus.,  |6th cent.|Lettering, etc., on
  |(f.)         |            |Add. 5111    |         |gold ground.
  |             |            |             |         |
 3|Menologium   |"           |Vat. Lib.,   |9th cent.|A typical Byzantine
  |             |            |Gr. 1613     |         |MS.
  |             |            |             |         |
 4|Gregory of   |Byzantium   |Nat. Lib.,   |9th cent.|Fine antique design
  |Nazianzum    |            |Paris, Gr.   |         |and composition.
  |             |            |510          |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 5|"            |"           |Nat. Lib.,   |"        |Good small figures.
  |             |            |Paris, Gr.   |         |
  |             |            |543          |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 6|"            |"           |Nat. Lib.,   |"        |Good small figures
  |             |            |Paris, Gr.   |         |and headings.
  |             |            |550          |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 7|Evangeliary  |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |
  |             |            |Arund. 547   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 8|"            |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |
  |             |            |Burney 19,   |         |
  |             |            |20.          |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 9|Lectionary   |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |10th     |Fine initials.
  |             |            |Harl. 5598   |cent.,   |
  |             |            |             |end      |
  |             |            |             |         |
10|Chrysostom   |......      |Nat. Lib.,   |10th     |Remarkable initials.
  |             |            |Paris, Gr.   |cent.    |
  |             |            |654          |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
11|Simeon       |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |11th     |Fine ornaments.
  |Metaphrastes |            |Add. 11870   |cent.    |
  |             |            |             |         |
12|Evangeliary  |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |Beautiful headings.
  |             |            |Add. 11838   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
13|Psalter      |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |12th     |Executed for
  |             |            |Add. Egert.  |cent.    |Melisenda, daughter
  |             |            |1139         |         |of King of Jerusalem.

IRISH OR CELTIC

--+-------------+--------------------------+---------+---------------------
No|    Name.    |   Where    | Where Kept. |  Date.  |      Remarks.
  |             |  Produced. |             |         |
--+-------------+------------+-------------+---------+---------------------
 1|Gospels of   |......      |Trin. Coll., |7th cent.|
  |St. Columba  |            |Dublin       |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 2|Gospels of   |St. Arnoul's|Nuremberg    |"        |
  |St. Arnoul,  |Abbey, Metz |Museum       |         |
  |of Metz      |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 3|Book of St.  |......      |Roy. Lib.,   |"        |
  |Columbanus   |            |Naples       |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 4|Bible of St. |......      |Cath. Lib.,  |8th cent.|Curious Crucifixion.
  |Kilian       |            |Wurzburg     |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 5|Gospels of   |Monastery of|Pub. Lib.,   |"        |Signed "Thomas
  |"Thomas"     |Hanow       |Trèves       |         |scribsit."
  |             |            |             |         |
 6|Psalter      |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |Anglo-Irish, with
  |             |            |Cott. Vesp.  |         |arched frame-border.
  |             |            |a. 1         |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 7|Gospels of   |......      |Bodl. Lib.,  |9th cent.|See Westwood,
  |MacRegol     |            |Oxford       |         |Palæographia Sacra
  |             |            |             |         |Pict., pl. 16.
  |             |            |             |         |
 8|Book of      |......      |Roy. Irish   |"        |P. 103. Remarkable.
  |Armagh       |            |Acad., Dublin|         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 9|St. Chad's   |......      |Lichfield    |"        |Fine Anglo-Irish.
  |Gospels      |            |Cath. Lib.   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
10|Lindisfarne  |Lindisfarne |Brit. Mus.,  |7th cent.|Anglo-Celtic--a very
  |Gospels      |Monastery   |Cott, Nero D.|         |fine example.
  |             |            |4            |         |

CAROLINGIAN

--+-------------+--------------------------+---------+---------------------
No|    Name.    |   Where    | Where Kept. |  Date.  |      Remarks.
  |             |  Produced. |             |         |
--+-------------+------------+-------------+---------+---------------------
 1|Sacramentary |Abbey of    |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 750 |Symbolism. Given by
  |             |Gellone     |Paris, MS.   |         |Ct. William of
  |             |            |Lat. 12048   |         |Toulouse.
  |             |            |             |         |
 2|Ada-Codex    |Abbey of St.|Municip.     |c. 775 |Written for Ada,
  |             |Mesmin, of  |Lib., Trèves |         |sister of
  |             |Trèves      |             |         |Charlemagne, Abbess
  |             |            |             |         |of St. Mesmin.
  |             |            |             |         |
 3|Psalter of   |.....       |Imp. Lib.,   |c. 780 |Written for Queen
  |Dagolfus     |            |Vienna Theol.|         |Hildegardis, wife of
  |             |            |Lat. 1861    |         |Charlemagne.
  |             |            |             |         |
 4|Evangeliarium|Abbey of St.|Nat. Lib.,   |"        |Written for
  |of Godescale |Sernin, of  |Paris, nouv. |         |Charlemagne and
  |             |Toulouse    |acq. 1203    |         |Hildegardis. Has gold
  |             |            |             |         |and silver letters on
  |             |            |             |         |purple vellum.
  |             |            |             |         |
 5|Sacramentary |Abbey of St.|Abb. St.     |"        |Franco-Saxon.
  |of Gelasius  |Gall        |Gall, No. 348|         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 6|Evangeliarium|Abbey of St.|Town Lib.,   |c. 793 |On purple vellum.
  |of St.       |Riquier     |Abbeville    |         |
  |Angilbert    |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 7|Alcuin Bible |Abbey of    |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 800 |Coronation gift to
  |             |Tours       |Add. 10546   |         |Charlemagne. Very
  |             |            |             |         |fine example.
  |             |            |             |         |
 8|Bible        |Tours       |Cantonal     |"        |Like 7.
  |             |            |Lib., Zurich |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 9|"            |"           |Bamberg Roy. |"        |Said to be an exact
  |             |            |Lib          |         |copy of 7.
  |             |            |             |         |
10|Gospels of   |"           |Imp. Lib.,   |"        |Found by Emperor Otho
  |Charles the  |            |Vienna       |         |III. in tomb of
  |Great        |            |             |         |Charlemagne.
  |(Charlemagne)|            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
11|Sacramentary |Abbey of    |Nat. Lib.    |c. 814 |The gift of
  |of Drogo,    |Metz, or    |Paris, Theol.|         |Charlemagne to his
  |Abp. of Metz |Tours       |Lat. 9428    |         |natural son Drogo.
  |             |            |             |         |
12|Golden       |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 835 |A splendid example.
  |Gospels of   |            |Harl. 2788   |         |
  |Athelstan    |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
13|Golden       |......      |Roy. Lib.,   |c. 850 |Ditto, written in
  |Gospels of   |            |Munich       |         |gold letters.
  |Charles the  |            |             |         |
  |Bald         |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
14|Evangeliary  |Abbey of St.|Nat. Lib.,   |"        |Remarkably beautiful.
  |of Lothaire  |Martin's,   |Paris, Theol.|         |
  |             |Tours       |Lat. 266     |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
15|Golden       |Abbey of St.|Nat. Lib.,   |"        |One of most beautiful
  |Gospels      |Médard, of  |Paris, Theol.|         |Carol. MSS. known.
  |             |Soissons    |Lat 8850     |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
16|Bible of     |Abbey of St.|Nat. Lib.,   |"        |Presented to Charles
  |Count Vivien |Martin, of  |Paris, Theol.|         |the Bald in 850.
  |             |Tours       |Lat 1        |         |Miniature of
  |             |            |             |         |presentation.
  |             |            |             |         |
17|Bible of St. |......      |Monastery of |c. 860 |Written for Charles
  |Paul's       |            |St. Calixtus,|         |the Bald by Ingobert.
  |             |            |Rome         |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
18|Prayer-book  |......      |Nat Lib.,    |c. 866 |Written by Ingobert
  |(or Hours) of|            |Paris        |         |and presented to
  |Charles the  |            |             |         |Charles the Bald in
  |Bald         |            |             |         |866.
  |             |            |             |         |
19|Golden       |Abbey of St.|Lib. at St.  |c. 870 |Written for Abbot
  |Gospels of   |Gall        |Gall, No. 22 |         |Grimwold, or Hartmut.
  |St. Gall     |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
20|Psalter of   |"           |Lib. at St.  |"        |Written for Abbot
  |Folchard     |            |Gall, No. 23 |         |Hartmut. Gold and
  |             |            |             |         |silver initials.
  |             |            |             |         |
21|Evangeliarium|St. Gall    |Lib., St.    |c. 920 |Written by Sintramn
  |Longum       |            |Gall         |         |of the "Wondrous
  |             |            |             |         |Hand." Profile
22|Evangeliary  |......      |Roy. Lib.,   |c. 925 |foliages in gold and
  |             |            |Brussels, No.|         |silver.
  |             |            |16383        |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
23|"            |......      |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 940 |Large 4°, written
  |             |            |Paris        |         |entirely in gold
  |             |            |             |         |letters; 5 miniatures
  |             |            |             |         |and 12 porticoes.
  |             |            |             |         |
24|Psalter      |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 995 |Transition to the
  |             |            |Harl. 2904   |         |style of the
  |             |            |             |         |Benedictionals.

WINCHESTER WORK AND SIMILAR

--+-------------+--------------------------+---------+---------------------
No|    Name.    |   Where    | Where Kept. |  Date.  |      Remarks.
  |             |  Produced. |             |         |
--+-------------+------------+-------------+---------+---------------------
 1|King Edgar's |Hyde Abbey, |Brit. Mus.,  |966      |Style of the
  |Charter      |Winchester  |Cott. Vesp.  |         |Benedictionals of
  |             |            |A. 8         |         |Æthelwold and Robert.
  |             |            |             |         |
 2|Breviarium   |Monte       |Mazarine     |......   |Tendency to same
  |Cassinense   |Cassino?    |Lib., Paris, |         |style colouring as in
  |             |            |759          |         |school of Metz.
  |             |            |             |         |
 3|Æthelwold's  |Hyde Abbey, |Lib. of Duke |c. 970 |Best example known.
  |Benedictional|Winchester  |of Devonshire|         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 4|Benedictional|"           |Pub. Lib.,   |c. 980 |Drawing bold, but
  |of Abp.      |            |Rouen        |         |colouring unequal to
  |Robert       |            |             |         |3.
  |             |            |             |         |
 5|Gospels      |......      |Trin. Coll., |c. 900 |Borders like
  |             |            |Camb         |         |Winchester work.
  |             |            |             |         |
 6|Psalter      |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |......   |Fol. frames similar.
  |             |            |Harl. 2904   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 7|"            |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1000|Init. D on f. 115.
  |             |            |Tib. C. 7    |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 8|"            |Winchester  |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |
  |             |            |Arund. 60    |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 9|"            |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |
  |             |            |Arund. 155   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
10|Cnut's       |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1017|Fine example.
  |Gospels      |            |Roy. 1 D. 9  |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
11|Leofric      |......      |Bodl. Lib.,  |10th     |Byzantine influence.
  |Missal       |            |Oxford No.   |cent.    |
  |             |            |579          |         |

MONASTIC STYLES

--+-------------+--------------------------+---------+---------------------
No|    Name.    |   Where    | Where Kept. |  Date.  |      Remarks.
  |             |  Produced. |             |         |
--+-------------+------------+-------------+---------+---------------------
 1|Weissobrun   |Weissobrun  |Roy. Lib.,   |c. 814 |Netherlandish.
  |Prayer-book  |            |Munich       |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 2|Gospels      |......      |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 975 |Medallions of
  |             |            |Paris, 8851  |         |Emperors Henry I. and
  |             |            |             |         |Otho I and II.
  |             |            |             |         |
 3|Egbert Codex |Reichenau   |Pub. Lib.    |977-93   |Beautiful initials.
  |             |            |Trèves, No.  |         |
  |             |            |24           |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 4|Gospels      |Echternach  |Gotha Museum |c. 990 |Portrait of Otho III.
  |             |            |             |         |and Theophanu.
  |             |            |             |         |Jewelled covers.
  |             |            |             |         |
 5|Otho Codex   |......      |Roy. Lib.,   |c. 998 |See p. 91.
  |             |            |Munich Cimel.|         |
  |             |            |58           |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 6|Gospels      |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |10th     |Branch-work initials.
  |             |            |Egert. 608   |cent.    |
  |             |            |             |         |
 7|Bernward's   |Hildesheim  |Cath. Lib.,  |993-1022 |
  |Gospels      |            |Hildesheim   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 8|Ellinger's   |Tegernsee   |Roy. Lib.,   |c. 1056|
  |Gospels      |            |Munich No. 31|         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 9|Hortus       |Landsberg   |Formerly at  |c.     |Burnt in 1670.
  |Deliciarum   |            |Strassburg   |1175-80  |
  |             |            |             |         |
10|Life of      |Tegernsee   |Roy. Lib.,   |1173-1200|Written, etc., for
  |Virgin       |            |Berlin       |         |the Emperor Frederick
  |             |            |             |         |I. by Werinher.
  |             |            |             |         |
11|Plenarium    |Quedlinburg |Town Lib.,   |1184-1203|Written for Abbess
  |             |            |Quedlinburg  |         |Agnes.
  |             |            |             |         |
12|Passionale   |Arnstein,   |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1194|
  |             |near Trèves |Harl. 2800-2 |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
13|Bible        |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1190|
  |             |            |Harl. 2803   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
14|"            |Floreffe    |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1253|Chronological tables
  |             |            |Add. 17737-8 |         |in coloured inks.
  |             |            |             |         |
15|Missal       |St. Bavon of|Brit. Mus.,  |1150-1175|
  |             |Ghent       |Add. 16949   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
16|Chronicle of |......      |Roy. Lib.,   |......   |Fine miniatures--
  |Jerusalem    |            |Brussels, No.|         |costumes.
  |             |            |11142        |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
17|Psalter      |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |12th     |Transition from
  |             |            |Arund. 157   |cent.    |Winchester to
  |             |            |             |         |Othonian.
18|"            |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |
  |             |            |Lansd. 420   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
19|"            |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |
  |             |            |Lansd. 431   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
20|"            |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |
  |             |            |Roy. I D.X.  |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
21|Bible        |St.         |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |Typical 12th cent.
  |             |Nicholas, of|Harl. 2798   |         |MS.
  |             |Arnstein    |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
22|Vauclere     |......      |Pub. Lib.,   |......   |A perfect type of
  |Psalter      |            |Laon, No. 29 |         |12th cent.
  |             |            |             |         |illumination.
  |             |            |             |         |
23|Mater        |Scheyern    |Roy. Lib.,   |......   |By Conrad of
  |Verborum     |            |Munich       |         |Scheyern, with all
  |             |            |             |         |manner of diagrams,
  |             |            |             |         |etc.

FRENCH AND ANGLO-FRENCH GOTHIC

--+-------------+--------------------------+---------+---------------------
No|    Name.    |   Where    | Where Kept. |  Date.  |      Remarks.
  |             |  Produced. |             |         |
--+-------------+------------+-------------+---------+---------------------
 1|Psalter of   |.....       |Musée Condé, |1193-1236|27 large miniatures
  |Queen        |            |Ghantilly    |         |Transitional to
  |Ingeburga    |            |             |         |Gothic
  |             |            |             |         |
 2|Psalter of   |.....       |Arsenal Lib.,|c. 1220|Hieratic, and
  |Queen        |            |Paris, Theol.|         |transitional to
  |Blanche,     |            |Lat. 165 B.  |         |Gothic.
  |mother of    |            |             |         |
  |Louis IX.    |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 3|Psalter of   |.....       |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 1250|Transitional to
  |St. Louis    |            |Paris, No.   |         |Gothic. 78 delicate
  |(IX.)        |            |10525        |         |miniatures.
  |             |            |             |         |
 4|Joinville's  |.....       |Nat. Lib.,   |1287     |Gothic portrait of
  |Credo        |            |Paris        |         |St. Louis.
  |             |            |             |         |
 5|Alfonso      |Blackfriar's|Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1284|See article in Fine
  |Psalter      |London      |Add. 24686   |         |Arts Qu. Rev., i.
  |(Tenison)    |            |             |         |77, and
  |             |            |             |         |Bibliographica, pt.
  |             |            |             |         |4.
  |             |            |             |         |
 6|Bible        |.....       |Brit. Mus.,  |1225-52  |Richly illuminated.
  |             |            |Burney 3     |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 7|Somme le Roy |.....       |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1300|9 large
  |             |            |Add. 28162   |         |illuminations.
  |             |            |             |         |
 8|Life of St.  |.....       |Nat. Lib.,   |1316-22  |Contains view of
  |Denis        |            |Paris, fds.  |         |Paris, and portrait
  |             |            |fr. 2090-2   |         |of Philip V.
  |             |            |             |         |Drolleries, coloured
  |             |            |             |         |shading of draperies.
  |             |            |             |         |
 9|Bible        |.....       |Brit. Mus.,  |c.     |Typical work,
  |             |            |Roy. 1 D. 1  |1310-15  |English.
  |             |            |             |         |
10|Ormsby       |Norwich     |Bodl. Lib.,  |c. 1295|English work.
  |Psalter      |            |Oxford, Douce|         |
  |             |            |366          |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
11|Bible        |.....       |Brit. Mus,   |Late 13th|A typical MS.
  |             |            |Add. 17341   |cent.    |
  |             |            |             |         |
12|Psalter      |.....       |Brit. Mus.,  |Early    |Drolleries and
  |             |            |Roy. 2 B. 7  |14th     |interesting scenes.
  |             |            |             |cent.    |
  |             |            |             |         |
13|Miroir       |.....       |Arsen. Lib., |c. 1356|Large folio richly
  |Historiale   |            |Paris        |         |illuminated.
  |             |            |             |         |
14|Louterell    |.....       |Lulworth     |c. 1340|Fine diapered
  |Psalter      |            |Castle       |         |backgrounds.
  |             |            |             |         |
15|Missal       |.....       |Westreenen   |1366     |"Gouache" painting in
  |             |            |Mus., The    |         |miniatures.
  |             |            |Hague        |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
16|Chronicle of |.....       |Nat. Lib.,   |1375-80  |Miniature in gold and
  |St. Denis    |            |Paris, 8395  |         |grey.
  |             |            |             |         |
17|Hours of     |.....       |Roy. Lib.,   |Finished |Illuminated by André
  |John, Duke of|            |Brussels,    |1380     |Beauneveu and
  |Berry        |            |11060        |         |Jacquemart de Hesdin.
  |             |            |             |         |
18|Epistle to   |Paris       |Brit. Mus.,  |1370-80  |Fine ivy-branch
  |Richard II.  |            |Roy. 20 B. 6 |         |style.
  |             |            |             |         |
19|Offices      |.....       |Brit. Mus.,  |.....    |Prayer-book of
  |B.M.V.       |            |Harl. 2897   |         |Margaret of Bavaria.
  |             |            |             |         |A typical MS.
  |             |            |             |         |
20|Little Hours |.....       |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 1400|113 beautiful
  |of Berry     |            |Paris, 18014 |         |miniatures.
  |             |            |             |         |
21|Psalter of   |Paris       |Nat. Lib.,   |1401     |Contains 24 fine
  |the Duke of  |            |Paris, No.   |         |miniatures by André
  |Berry        |            |13091        |         |Beauneveu.
  |             |            |             |         |
22|Grandes      |"           |Nat. Lib.,   |1409     |By Jacquemart de
  |Heures de    |            |Paris, fds.  |         |Hesdin, André
  |Berry        |            |Lat. 919     |         |Beauneveu, and Pol de
  |             |            |             |         |Limbourg.
  |             |            |             |         |
23|Heures de    |"           |Musée Dondé, |1410     |Considered the finest
  |Berry        |            |Chantilly    |         |example known.
  |             |            |             |         |
24|Poems of     |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |1400-6   |Fine miniatures--
  |Christine de |            |Harl. 4431   |         |costumes and
  |Pisan        |            |             |         |portraits.
  |             |            |             |         |
25|Talbot       |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |1400     |Curious miniatures,
  |Romances     |            |Roy. 15 E. 6 |         |portraits of Henry
  |             |            |             |         |VI., etc.
  |             |            |             |         |
26|Bedford      |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1435|Richly illuminated.
  |Offices      |            |Add. 18850   |         |Contains French,
  |             |            |             |         |English, and
  |             |            |             |         |Netherlandish work.
  |             |            |             |         |
27|Bedford      |......      |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 1430|Contains English and
  |Breviary     |            |Paris, fds.  |         |French work.
  |             |            |Lat. 17294   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
28|Pontifical   |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1450|Fine borders.
  |             |            |Add. 16610   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
29|Valerius     |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |Northern French and
  |Maximus      |            |Harl. 4375   |         |Netherlandish.
  |             |            |             |         |
30|Girart de    |......      |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 1470|Netherlandish--
  |Nevers       |            |Paris, fds.  |         |costumes, etc.
  |             |            |fr. 4092     |         |

GERMAN AND BOHEMIAN

--+-------------+--------------------------+---------+---------------------
No|    Name.    |   Where    | Where Kept. |  Date.  |      Remarks.
  |             |  Produced. |             |         |
--+-------------+------------+-------------+---------+---------------------
 1|Minnelieder  |......      |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 1300|Hunting scenes,
  |             |            |Paris, fds.  |         |costumes.
  |             |            |fr. 7266     |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 2|Wilhelm von  |......      |Pub. Lib.,   |1334     |Written for Henry
  |Oranse       |            |Cassel       |         |Landgrave of Hesse.
  |             |            |             |         |French influence.
 3|Picture Bible|......      |Lib. of      |c. 1300|
  |             |            |Prince       |         |
  |             |            |Lobkowitz,   |         |
  |             |            |Prag         |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 4|Passionale of|Prag        |Univ. Lib.,  |1312     |Transparent
  |Abbess       |            |Prag, xiv. A.|         |water-colour. No
  |Cunigunda    |            |17           |         |French influence.
  |             |            |             |         |
 5|Weltchronik  |......      |Roy. Lib.,   |c. 1350|Old Cologne school.
  |of Rudolf v. |            |Stuttgart    |         |
  |Hohen-Ems    |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 6|Liber        |Prag        |Bohem. Mus., |c. 1360|Written for John v.
  |Viaticus     |            |Prag         |         |Neumarkt, Bishop of
  |             |            |             |         |Leitomischl.
  |             |            |             |         |
 7|Mariale      |"           |Bohem. Mus., |c. 1345|Written for Arnestus
  |             |            |Prag         |         |v. Pardubitz,
  |             |            |             |         |Archbishop of Prag
  |             |            |             |         |(1344-64). Bohemian
  |             |            |             |         |school.
  |             |            |             |         |
 8|Orationale   |"           |Bohem. Mus., |c. 1345|Written for same
  |             |            |Prag         |         |prelate, in French
  |             |            |             |         |Gothic style.
  |             |            |             |         |
 9|Bible of     |"           |Imp. Lib.,   |......   |Executed by order of
  |Emperor      |            |Vienna, No.  |         |Martin Rotlöw for
  |Wenzel       |            |2759         |         |presentation to the
  |             |            |             |         |Emperor.
  |             |            |             |         |
10|Gospels of   |"           |Imp. Lib.,   |1368     |Beautiful penmanship
  |John of      |            |Vienna       |         |and ornaments.
  |Oppavia      |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
11|Wilhelm von  |"           |Ambras       |1387     |Fine diapered
  |Oranse       |            |Museum,      |         |backgrounds,
  |             |            |Vienna, No. 7|         |costumes, and armour.
  |             |            |             |         |
12|Salzburg     |......      |Roy. Lib.,   |c. 1350|In 5 fol. vols.
  |Missal       |            |Munich, Lat. |         |Splendid colouring.
  |             |            |15710        |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
13|Weltchronik  |......      |15710 Pub.   |c. 1383|Large folio.
  |of Rudolf v. |            |Lib.,        |         |Westphalian school.
  |Hohen-Ems    |            |Stuttgart    |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
14|Durandus     |......      |Imp. Lib.,   |1384     |Written for Albert
  |             |            |Vienna, No.  |         |III., Duke of
  |             |            |2765         |         |Austria. Illuminated
  |             |            |             |         |in later Bohemian.
  |             |            |             |         |
15|Golden Bull  |Prag        |Imp. Lib.,   |c. 1399|Rich soft-leaved
  |of Charles   |            |Vienna, jus. |         |foliages. Ornament
  |IV.          |            |c. 338       |         |superior to
  |             |            |             |         |miniatures.
  |             |            |             |         |
16|Wurzburg     |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |After    |Large foliages, fine
  |Bible        |            |Arund. 106   |1400     |initials, bright
  |             |            |             |         |colours.
  |             |            |             |         |
17|Missal of    |......      |Imp. Lib.,   |1448     |German work.
  |Emperor      |            |Vienna       |         |
  |Frederick    |            |             |         |
  |III.         |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
18|Gospels      |......      |Pub. Lib.,   |1498     |43 miniatures and
  |             |            |Nuremberg    |         |splendid borders,
  |             |            |             |         |etc., by Conrad
  |             |            |             |         |Frankendorfer.
  |             |            |             |         |
19|Choir-book of|Abbey of St.|Lib.,        |1489     |Written by L. Wagner,
  |SS. Ulrich   |Ulrich,     |Augsburg     |         |and illuminated by G.
  |and Afra,    |Augsburg    |             |         |Beck.
  |Augsburg     |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
20|Miniature of |Augsburg    |Vict. and    |c. 1489|Taken from 19.
  |presentation |            |Alb. Mus.,   |         |
  |of 19        |            |South        |         |
  |             |            |Kensington   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
21|Offices      |Upper       |Brit. Mus.,  |1513     |
  |B.M.V.       |Carinthia   |Add. 15711   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
22|Prayer-book  |Nuremberg   |Aschaffenburg|1524     |Illuminated by A.
  |of Albert of |            |Castle       |         |Glockendon.
  |Brandenburg  |            |Library      |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
23|Prayer-book  |"           |Imp. Lib.,   |1535     |Illuminated by Albert
  |of William   |            |Vienna, No.  |         |Glockendon.
  |IV. of       |            |1880         |         |
  |Bavaria      |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
24|Prayer-book  |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |1584     |School of Glockendon.
  |             |            |Add. 17525   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
25|Splendor     |......      |Harl. 3469   |Late 16th|Astrological
  |Solis        |            |             |cent.    |diagrams, etc.,
  |             |            |             |         |scenes.
  |             |            |             |         |
26|Penitential  |Munich      |Roy. Lib.,   |1570     |Painted by Hans
  |Psalms       |            |Munich,      |         |Mielich.
  |             |            |Cimel. Saal  |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
27|Horæ         |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |Late 16th|Fine foliages and
  |             |            |Egert. 1146  |cent.    |initials.
  |             |            |             |         |
28|Prayer-book  |Strassburg  |Nat. Lib.,   |1647     |2 vols., 8°.
  |of William of|            |Paris, Nos.  |         |Renaissance by
  |Baden        |            |10567-8      |         |Frederic Brentel.

SICILIAN AND ITALIAN

--+-------------+--------------------------+---------+---------------------
No|    Name.    |   Where    | Where Kept. |  Date.  |      Remarks.
  |             |  Produced. |             |         |
--+-------------+------------+-------------+---------+---------------------
 1|De arte      |Palermo     |Vat. Lib.,   |c. 1225|Composed by Emperor
  |venandi cum  |            |Rome, palat. |         |Frederick II.
  |avibus       |            |1071         |         |(1212-50). Paintings
  |             |            |             |         |of birds and hunting
  |             |            |             |         |scenes.
  |             |            |             |         |
 2|Offices,     |Gubbio      |Acad. Lib.,  |......   |Attributed to
  |"ordo offic. |            |Siena        |         |Oderigi.
  |Senensis"    |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 3|Legends      |Florence?   |Canon. Lib., |c.     |Attributed to Giotto.
  |             |            |             |1327-43  |
  |             |            |             |         |
 4|Vergil       |Florence?   |Rome Ambros. |c. 1310|Attributed to Simone
  |             |            |Lib., Milan  |         |Martini.
  |             |            |             |         |
 5|Durandus     |Siena?      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1330|Fine work.
  |             |            |Add. 31032   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 6|Aristotle    |Bologna?    |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1335|Like the "Avignon"
  |             |            |Harl. 6331   |         |Decretals.
  |             |            |             |         |
 7|Stefaneschi  |Rome?       |Canon. Lib., |1327-43  |In same vol. with 3,
  |Missal       |            |Rome         |         |and attributed to
  |             |            |             |         |Giotto.
  |             |            |             |         |
 8|Poems of     |Naples?     |Brit. Mus.,  |1309-43  |Bold "gouache"
  |Convenevole  |            |Roy. 6 E. 9  |         |painting. Executed
  |da Prato[66] |            |             |         |for King Robert of
  |             |            |             |         |Naples.
  |             |            |             |         |
 9|Breviarium   |Florence?   |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1400|Fine initials.
  |Romanum      |            |Harl. 2903   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
10|Concordantiæ |Bologna?    |Nat. Mus.,   |c. 1350|Allegorical figures
  |Canonicæ     |            |Naples       |         |and "gouache"
  |             |            |             |         |painting.
  |             |            |             |         |
11|Statuts de   |Naples      |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 1354|Executed for Louis
  |l'Ordre do   |            |Paris, fds.  |         |I., of House of
  |St. Esprit   |            |fr. 4274     |         |Anjou, King of Sicily
  |             |            |             |         |and Jerusalem.
  |             |            |             |         |
12|Romance of   |Avignon?    |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1355|Executed for Louis
  |Meliadus     |            |Add. 12228   |         |II. of Naples.
  |             |            |             |         |
13|Triumphs of  |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1370|Small miniatures and
  |Fr. Petrarch |            |Harl. 3109   |         |initials in older
  |             |            |             |         |style.
  |             |            |             |         |
14|"            |......      |Nat. Lib.,   |......   |Miniatures of
  |             |            |Paris        |         |triumphs.
  |             |            |             |         |
15|Joannes      |......      |Abp. of St.  |c. 1370|Fine Bolognese
  |Andreae, Lib.|            |Florian      |         |miniatures.
  |VI.          |            |             |         |
  |Decretalium  |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
16|Glossa       |Bologna?    |Laon, No. 382|c.     |Very finely
  |Joannis      |            |             |1330-43  |illuminated.
  |Andreae in   |            |             |         |
  |Clementinas  |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
17|Rubrics on   |"           |Laon, No. 357|1332     |Many grotesque
  |the Decretals|            |             |         |figures.
  |             |            |             |         |
18|Decretum     |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1375|Exquisitely
  |Gratiani     |            |Add. 15274,  |         |illuminated.
  |             |            |15275        |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
19|Missale      |"           |Roy. Lib.,   |c. 1374|By Nicolaus de
  |Romanum      |            |Munich, Lat. |         |Bononia.
  |             |            |10072        |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
20|"            |"           |St. Mark's,  |c. 1370|"
  |             |            |Venice, cl.  |         |
  |             |            |iii. xcvii.  |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
21|"            |Florence?   |Brit. Mus.,  |c.     |Fine pen work diapers
  |             |            |Add. 21973   |1380-1400|and initials.
  |             |            |             |         |
22|Latin Bible  |Bologna?    |Brit. Mus.,  |c.     |Sweet colouring and
  |             |            |Add. 18720   |1375-1400|fine foliages.
  |             |            |             |         |
23|Hymnarium    |Sienese?    |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1400|Fine initials.
  |Heremitarum  |            |Add. 30014   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
24|Questions on |Naples      |Brit. Mus.,  |c.     |Written by Hippolytus
  |4 Books of   |            |Add. 15270-3 |1458-94  |Lunensis for
  |Sentences by |            |             |         |Ferdinand I., King of
  |Job. Scot,   |            |             |         |Naples, and finely
  |Franciscan   |            |             |         |illuminated.
  |             |            |             |         |
25|Platonis     |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1470|Written for Ferdinand
  |Opera        |            |Harl. 3481   |         |I., King of Naples.
  |             |            |             |         |Finely illuminated.
  |             |            |             |         |
26|Cæsar        |            |Brit. Mus.,  |1462     |White stem-work.
  |             |            |Add. 16982   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
27|"            |Rome?       |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1460|Executed for Pius II.
  |             |            |Harl. 2683   |         |Roman Renaissance
  |             |            |             |         |(1458-64).
  |             |            |             |         |
28|Petrarch     |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1465|White stem-work.
  |Sonnets, etc.|            |Harl. 3411   |         |Written by J. And.
  |             |            |             |         |Mussolini.
  |             |            |             |         |
29|Offices      |Milan?      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1475|A pretty little
  |             |            |Add. 19417   |         |volume of Milanese
  |             |            |             |         |work.
  |             |            |             |         |
30|Missale      |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |Like MSS. executed
  |Romanum      |            |Add. 15260   |         |for the Dukes of
  |             |            |             |         |Ferrara. Very fine.
  |             |            |             |         |
31|"            |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1480|Of Florentine type.
  |             |            |Harl. 2875   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
32|Officium     |Florence    |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1475|A small volume, but
  |B.M.V.       |            |Add. 15528   |         |rich initials.
  |             |            |             |         |
33|Missale      |Bologna     |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1495|Like 32, but finer.
  |Romanum      |            |Add. 15814   |         |Written by Jo. de
  |             |            |             |         |Lyvonia for one of
  |             |            |             |         |the Visconti.
  |             |            |             |         |
34|Josephus     |Rome        |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1490|Roman Renaissance.
  |             |            |Harl. 3699   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
35|Herodean     |Florence    |Brit. Mus.,  |1487     |Written by Alexander
  |             |            |Add. 23773   |         |Verazzanus.
  |             |            |             |         |
36|Scrapbook of |Rome and    |Brit. Mus.,  |1480-1500|A very interesting
  |cutting's    |Florence    |Add. 21412   |         |collection. Roman and
  |             |            |             |         |Florentine.
  |             |            |             |         |
37|Grant of     |Milan       |Brit. Mus.,  |1494     |Illuminated by
  |Ludovico     |            |Add. 21413   |         |Antonio da Monza.
  |Sforza (il   |            |             |         |
  |Moro)        |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
38|Offices      |Naples      |Brit. Mus.,  |1500     |Written and
  |             |            |Add. 21591   |         |illuminated for
  |             |            |             |         |Frederick of Aragon,
  |             |            |             |         |King of Naples.
  |             |            |             |         |
39|Prayer-book  |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1455|Finest Neapolitan
  |of Alfonso I.|            |Add. 28962   |         |work. Portraits
  |             |            |             |         |(1416-58).
  |             |            |             |         |
40|Orations of  |"           |Imp. Lib.,   |c. 1490|Executed for
  |Cicero       |            |Vienna       |         |Ferdinand I., King of
  |             |            |             |         |Naples (1458-94).
  |             |            |             |         |Very fine.

[66] Petrarch's tutor.

RENAISSANCE ILLUMINATION

ITALIAN

--+-------------+--------------------------+---------+---------------------
No|    Name.    |   Where    | Where Kept. |  Date.  |      Remarks.
  |             |  Produced. |             |         |
--+-------------+------------+-------------+---------+---------------------
 1|Life of      |Florence    |Brit. Mus.,  |1506     |Neat in execution.
  |Manetti      |            |Add. 9770    |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 2|Life of St.  |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1505|Very fine
  |Francis      |            |Harl. 3229   |         |illumination.
  |             |            |             |         |
 3|Eusebius     |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1515|
  |             |            |Harl. 3308   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 4|Life of      |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1525|
  |Manetti      |            |Lansd. 842   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 5|Eusebius     |Milan       |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |
  |             |            |Roy          |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 6|Missale      |Venice      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1530|Attributed to
  |             |            |Add. 15813   |         |Benedetto Bordone.
  |             |            |             |         |
 7|Ethics of    |Naples or   |Imp. Lib.,   |c.     |Fine Renaissance
  |Aristotle    |Calabria    |Vienna       |1490-1510|work. Elaborately
  |             |            |             |         |designed frames, and
  |             |            |             |         |fine miniatures
  |             |            |             |         |painted in a strong
  |             |            |             |         |"gouache," by Rinaldo
  |             |            |             |         |Piramo, for And.
  |             |            |             |         |Matt. Acquavira, 8th
  |             |            |             |         |Duke of Atri.
  |             |            |             |         |
 8|St. Jerome on|Florence    |Imp. Lib.,   |c.     |Illuminated by
  |Ezechiel     |            |Vienna, No.  |1490-1520|Attavante for Matt.
  |             |            |654          |         |Corvinus, King of
  |             |            |             |         |Hungary (1443-90).
  |             |            |             |         |
 9|Philostratus |"           |Imp. Lib.,   |"        |Illuminated probably
  |(Latin)      |            |Vienna, No.  |         |by Attavante for
  |             |            |25           |         |Matt. Corvinus.
  |             |            |             |         |
10|Missale      |"           |Roy. Lib.,   |"        |Illuminated by
  |Romanum of   |            |Brussels     |         |Attavante for
  |Corvinus     |            |             |         |Corvinus. Used for
  |             |            |             |         |admission oaths of
  |             |            |             |         |Governors of
  |             |            |             |         |Netherlands.
  |             |            |             |         |
11|Augustine:   |"           |Imp. Lib.,   |c. 1495|Illuminated by
  |Epistles     |            |Vienna       |         |Attavante for Matt.
  |             |            |             |         |Corvinus. Signed
  |             |            |             |         |"Attavantes pinsit."
  |             |            |             |         |
12|Martianus    |"           |Lib. St.     |c. 1500|Illuminated by
  |Capella      |            |Mark's,      |         |Attavante for Matt.
  |             |            |Venice       |         |Corvinus. Signed.
  |             |            |             |         |Written by Al,
  |             |            |             |         |Verazzanus
  |             |            |             |         |
13|Psalter      |"           |Ducal Lib.,  |"        |Illuminated by
  |             |            |Wolfenbüttel |         |Attavante.
  |             |            |             |         |
14|Diurnale     |"           |Laurent.     |"        |Illuminated by
  |             |            |Lib.,        |         |Attavante or
  |             |            |Florence     |         |Gherardo.
  |             |            |             |         |
15|Missal of Bp.|"           |Pub. Lib.,   |"        |Illuminated by
  |of Dôle      |            |Lyons        |         |Attavante.
  |             |            |             |         |
16|St. Gregory  |"           |Estense Lib.,|"        |Illuminated by
  |on Ezechiel  |            |Modena       |         |Attavante. Signed.
  |             |            |             |         |
17|Dionysii Opp.|"           |Pub. Lib.,   |"        |"
  |             |            |Besançon     |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
18|"Gran"       |"           |Nat. Lib.,   |"        |Probably illuminated
  |Breviary     |            |Paris, MS.   |         |by Boccardino il
  |             |            |Lat. 8879    |         |Vecchio, though
  |             |            |             |         |attributed to
  |             |            |             |         |Attavante.
  |             |            |             |         |
19|Hieronymi    |"           |Nat. Lib.,   |1488-1500|Written for Matt.
  |Breviar. in  |            |Paris, MS.   |         |Corvinus by Anton
  |psalmos      |            |Lat. 16839   |         |Sinibaldi, and
  |             |            |             |         |illuminated by
  |             |            |             |         |Attavante.
  |             |            |             |         |
20|Poems of     |Rome        |Imp. Lib.,   |c. 1536|Illuminated by Giulio
  |Eurialo      |            |Vienna       |         |Clovio (1498-1578).
  |d'Ascoli     |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
21|"Rothesay"   |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1546|Illuminated by
  |Offices      |            |Add. 20927   |         |Clovio.
  |             |            |             |         |
22|Commentary on|"           |Soane Mus.,  |c. 1536|Executed for Cardinal
  |St. Paul's   |            |London       |         |Grimani by Clovio.
  |Epistles     |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
23|Psalter of   |"           |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 1542|Illuminated by
  |Paul III.    |            |Paris, MS.   |         |Vincenzio Raimondi.
  |             |            |Lat. 702.    |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
24|Papal        |"           |Lenox Lib.,  |c. 1546|By Clovio and his
  |Lectionary   |            |New York     |         |assistants.
  |(Towneley    |            |             |         |
  |Clovio)      |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
25|Dante        |"           |Vat. Lib.,   |c. 1555|Illuminated in part
  |             |            |No. 365      |         |by Clovio.
  |             |            |             |         |
26|Investiture  |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1560|Very fine ornament.
  |from Duke of |            |Add. 22660   |         |
  |Urbino       |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
27|Triumphs of  |"           |Lib. of Capt.|c. 1550|Fine miniatures.
  |Petrarch     |            |Holford,     |         |
  |             |            |London       |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
28|Missal of    |"           |Rylands Lib.,|c. 1520|Fine miniatures.
  |Card. Colonna|            |Manchester   |         |Attributed, but
  |             |            |             |         |without authority, to
  |             |            |             |         |Raffaelle.
  |             |            |             |         |
29|Prayer-book  |Rome, or    |Barberini    |c. 1500|Many fine miniatures.
  |             |Florence    |Lib., Rome,  |         |
  |             |            |No. 324      |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
30|Missal of    |Rome        |Chigi Lib.,  |c.     |Executed for Pius II.
  |Pius II.     |            |Rome         |1460-70  |
  |             |            |             |         |
31|Missal of    |"           |Corsini Lib.,|c. 1530|Fine framed
  |Card. Corsini|            |Rome, No.    |         |miniatures.
  |             |            |1015         |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
32|Missal of    |"           |Minerva Lib.,|c. 1520|Fine miniatures.
  |Card. Cornaro|            |Rome         |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
33|"Pavia"      |Milan       |Brera Lib.,  |1530-80  |By several artists,
  |Graduals     |            |Milan        |         |especially G.
  |             |            |             |         |Berretta. Enormous
  |             |            |             |         |folios.
  |             |            |             |         |
34|Prayer-book  |......      |Roy. Lib.,   |c. 1574|Finest Roman
  |of Albert IV.|            |Munich, Cim. |         |Renaissance, but
  |of Bavaria   |            |Saal. 42     |         |written by Hans
  |             |            |             |         |Lenker, of Munich
  |             |            |             |         |(not a Clovio).
  |             |            |             |         |
35|Apologia di  |Rome        |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1510|Executed for Henry
  |Colenuccio   |            |Roy. 12, c.  |         |VIII. of England.
  |             |            |viii.        |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
36|Prayer-book  |Milan       |Roy. Lib.,   |c. 1450|Illuminated by
  |Bianca Maria |            |Munich, No.  |         |Giovanni da Como.
  |of Milan     |            |99A          |         |Contains Visconti and
  |             |            |             |         |Sforza arms.
  |             |            |             |         |
37|Hours of Bona|"           |Brit Mus.,   |c. 1490|Finest Milanese
  |Sforza of    |            |Add. 34294   |         |Renaissance, with
  |Milan        |            |             |         |some Flemish
  |             |            |             |         |additions.

FRENCH

--+-------------+--------------------------+---------+---------------------
No|    Name.    |   Where    | Where Kept. |  Date.  |      Remarks.
  |             |  Produced. |             |         |
--+-------------+------------+-------------+---------+---------------------
 1|The          |Tours       |Nat. Lib.,   |......   |Attributed to Jehan
  |"Versailles" |            |Paris, 6907  |         |Fouquet of Tours.
  |Livy         |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 2|The          |"           |Nat. Lib.,   |......   |Attributed to Jehan
  |"Sorbonne"   |            |Paris, fds.  |         |Fouquet of Tours.
  |Livy         |            |Sorb. 297    |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 3|Antiquities  |"           |Nat. Lib.,   |......   |Fouquet's
  |of the Jews  |            |Paris, Resew.|         |masterpiece.
  |             |            |6891         |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 4|Boccacio     |"           |Roy. Lib.,   |......   |Executed for Etienne
  |             |            |Munich       |         |Chevalier.
  |             |            |             |         |
 5|Trésor des   |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1490|Fine aërial
  |Histoires    |            |Cott. Aug. v.|         |perspective and
  |             |            |             |         |landscape.
  |             |            |             |         |
 6|Valerius     |Paris       |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |A very fine MS.
  |Maximus      |            |Harl. 4374-5 |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 7|Hours of Anne|"           |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 1508|A magnificent
  |of Brittany  |            |Paris        |         |example, eclectic in
  |             |            |             |         |style, with natural
  |             |            |             |         |flowers and insects
  |             |            |             |         |in borders, and fine
  |             |            |             |         |figure-painting.
  |             |            |             |         |
 8|Hours of     |"           |Vicomte de   |c. 1550|Attributed to Jean
  |Claude       |            |Janzé        |         |Cousin. Influence of
  |Gouffier     |            |             |         |glass-painting.
  |             |            |             |         |
 9|Offices      |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1530|Probably executed for
  |             |            |Add. 18853   |         |Francis I. of France.
  |             |            |             |         |Excellent work,
  |             |            |             |         |eclectic in style.
  |             |            |             |         |
9a|Hours of     |"           |Libr. of     |1549     |Same style as 8 and
  |Montmorency  |            |Count of     |         |9, and probably by J.
  |             |            |Haussonville |         |Cousin,
  |             |            |             |         |
10|Offices      |Tours?      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1525|Architectural details
  |             |            |Add. 18854   |         |of School of Tours.
  |             |            |             |         |Written for Fr. de
  |             |            |             |         |Dinteville, Bp. of
  |             |            |             |         |Auxerre.
  |             |            |             |         |
11|"            |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |Architectural frames
  |             |            |Add. 18855   |         |to miniatures as in
  |             |            |             |         |
12|"            |Paris       |Nat. Lib.,   |1531     |10, but larger and
  |             |            |Paris, Lat.  |         |more fanciful
  |             |            |10563        |         |details, somewhat
  |             |            |             |         |like 7 in portions.
  |             |            |             |         |
13|Epistres     |......      |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 1500|Executed for Louise
  |d'Ovide      |            |Paris, fds.  |         |de Savoie, mother of
  |             |            |fr. 875      |         |Francis I.
  |             |            |             |         |
14|Boece        |Paris       |Nat. Lib.,   |"        |Fine miniatures with
  |             |            |Paris, u.    |         |Renaissance
  |             |            |fds. Lat.    |         |architectural
  |             |            |6643         |         |details.
  |             |            |             |         |
15|Epistres     |"           |Nat. Lib.,   |"        |Translated by
  |             |            |Paris, 6877  |         |Octavien de d'Ovide
  |             |            |             |         |St. Gelay. Beautiful
  |             |            |             |         |miniatures.
  |             |            |             |         |
16|Petrarch's   |......      |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 1520|Very fine miniatures
  |Triumphs     |            |Paris, f. fr.|         |of triumphs. Italian
  |             |            |7079         |         |influence.
  |             |            |             |         |
17|Chants royaux|......      |Nat. Lib.,   |"        |Fine miniatures.
  |             |            |Paris, 6987  |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
18|Chants Royaux|Paris       |Nat. Lib.,   |"        |Magnificent
  |             |            |Paris, f. fr.|         |miniatures under
  |             |            |379          |         |Italian influence of
  |             |            |             |         |Andrea del Sarto.
  |             |            |             |         |
19|Petrarch     |"           |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 1503|Miniature of
  |             |            |Paris, f. fr.|         |presentation to Louis
  |             |            |225          |         |XII. Many full-page
  |             |            |             |         |miniatures.
  |             |            |             |         |
20|Fleur des    |"           |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 1505|Executed for Cardinal
  |Histoires    |            |Paris, f. fr.|         |d'Amboise.
  |             |            |54           |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
21|Chron. de    |"           |Nat. Lib.,   |"        |Three large folio
  |Monstrelet   |            |Paris,       |         |vols. Vol. i.
  |             |            |20360-2      |         |contains five
  |             |            |             |         |equestrian portraits
  |             |            |             |         |of Louis XII.
  |             |            |             |         |
22|Les Echecs   |"           |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 1500|Executed for use of
  |amoreux      |            |Paris, f. fr.|         |Francis, d. of
  |             |            |143          |         |Angoulème, and his
  |             |            |             |         |sister Marguerite.
  |             |            |             |         |
23|Boccace de   |"           |Nat. Lib.,   |"        |By same illuminator
  |claris et    |            |Paris, f. fr.|         |as 22. Executed for
  |nobilibus    |            |599          |         |Louise de Savoie.
  |mulieribus   |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
24|Reception de |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1514|"Avec belles
  |Marie        |            |Vesp. B. 2   |         |peintures."
  |d'Angleterre |            |             |         |
  |à Paris      |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
25|Chants Royaux|"           |Nat. Lib.,   |1515     |Presented in 1515 to
  |             |            |Paris, f. fr.|         |Louise de Savoie by
  |             |            |145          |         |the City of Amiens.
  |             |            |             |         |The miniatures
  |             |            |             |         |painted in grisaille
  |             |            |             |         |by J. Plastel, and
  |             |            |             |         |coloured by J.
  |             |            |             |         |Pinchon. Contains
  |             |            |             |         |portrait of Louise.
  |             |            |             |         |
26|Commentaires |"           |Brit. Mus.   |c. 1519|Attributed to
  |de César,    |            |             |         |Geoffroy Tory. Part
  |Vol. i.      |            |             |         |grisaille. Written in
  |             |            |             |         |Roman text. See
  |             |            |             |         |Dict. Miniat. iii.
  |             |            |             |         |312.
  |             |            |             |         |
  |Commentaires |"           |Nat. Lib.,   |"        |"
  |de César,    |            |Paris, 13429 |         |
  |Vol. ii.     |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
  |Commentaires |"           |Lib. of Duc  |"        |"
  |de César,    |            |d'Aumale     |         |
  |Vol. iii.    |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
27|Dutillet,    |......      |Nat. Lib.,   |......   |Presented to Charles
  |French Kings,|            |Paris, 2848  |         |IX.
  |etc.         |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
28|Hours of     |......      |Nat. Lib.,   |c. 1595|Peculiar style and
  |Henry IV.    |            |Paris, Lat.  |         |colouring.
  |             |            |1171         |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
29|Gospel of St.|Boisleduc   |Brit. Mus.,  |......   |Finely written, but
  |John         |            |Roy., E. 5   |         |not illuminated by
  |             |            |             |         |Pet. Meghen.
  |             |            |             |         |
30|"Sol         |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1682|Painted by Pierre
  |Gallicus"    |            |Add. 23745   |         |Mignard.
  |             |            |             |         |
31|Psalter      |London      |Brit. Mus.,  |1565     |Written by Petrucco
  |             |            |Roy. 2 B. 9  |         |Ubaldini, a
  |             |            |             |         |Florentine.
  |             |            |             |         |
32|Book of      |English?    |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1600|Very elegant borders.
  |Sentences for|London?     |Roy. 17 A. 23|         |
  |Lady Sumley  |            |             |         |

ENGLISH ILLUMINATION

FROM THE THIRTEENTH TO THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY

--+-------------+--------------------------+---------+---------------------
No|    Name.    |   Where    | Where Kept. |  Date.  |      Remarks.
  |             |  Produced. |             |         |
--+-------------+------------+-------------+---------+---------------------
 1|Offices and  |Westminster |Brit. Mus.,  |1240     |Imitation of stained
  |Prayers      |            |Roy. 2 A. 22 |         |glass. Typical MS.
  |             |            |             |         |
 2|Bible in     |Canterbury  |Brit. Mus.,  |1245     |
  |Latin        |            |Burney 3     |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 3|"            |Salisbury   |Brit. Mus.,  |1254     |Written by Will de
  |             |            |Roy. 1 B. 12 |         |Hales.
  |             |            |             |         |
 4|Tenison      |London      |Brit. Mus.,  |1294     |Written and
  |Psalter      |            |Add. 24686   |         |illuminated by order
  |             |            |             |         |of Edward I.
  |             |            |             |         |
 5|Bible in     |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |13th     |Written by Will of
  |Latin        |            |Roy. 1 D 1   |cent.    |Devon.
  |             |            |             |         |
 6|Apocalypse in|......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1330|See Bibliographica,
  |French       |            |Roy. 19 B. 15|         |pt. v. pl. 1.
  |             |            |             |         |
 7|Arundel      |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |See Bibliographica,
  |Psalter      |            |Arund. 83    |         |pt. v. pl. 2
  |             |            |             |         |
 8|Psalter of   |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |1380     |Transition from
  |Joan of Kent |            |Roy. 2 B. 8  |         |French Gothic to
  |             |            |             |         |Lancastrian.
  |             |            |             |         |
 9|Pontifical   |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1400|Early Lancastrian.
  |             |            |Lansd. 451   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
10|Bible in     |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |Large folio. See
  |Latin        |            |Roy. 1 E. ix.|         |Bibliographica, pt.
  |             |            |             |         |v. pl. 4.
  |             |            |             |         |
11|Breviary     |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |Something like 7.
  |             |            |Harl. 2975   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
12|Offices      |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c.     |
  |             |            |Add. 16968   |1390-1400|
  |             |            |             |         |
13|"            |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1410|Executed for Anne
  |             |            |Add. 16998   |         |Mauleverer.
  |             |            |             |         |
14|Liber Albus  |London      |Guildhall    |"        |Bracket borders.
  |             |            |Lib., London |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
15|Liber de Hyda|Winchester  |Shirburn     |"        |Richly illuminated
  |             |            |Castle Lib.  |         |borders, some
  |             |            |             |         |unfinished. See Rolls
  |             |            |             |         |Series. 1866.
  |             |            |             |         |
16|Offices      |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c.     |Early Lancastrian.
  |             |            |Roy. 2 B. 1  |1400-1410|
  |             |            |             |         |
17|Grandison    |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1410|Fine initials with
  |Offices      |            |Roy. 2 A. 18 |         |Lancastrian brackets.
  |             |            |             |         |See Bibliographica,
  |             |            |             |         |v. pl. 5.
  |             |            |             |         |
18|Occleve de   |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1415|Traceried backgrounds
  |Regim.       |            |Ar. 38       |         |in Bohemian manner.
  |Principum    |            |             |         |Cf. Will. v. Orange
  |             |            |             |         |MS.
  |             |            |             |         |
19|Ormonde      |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1420|Similar to 17. Called
  |Offices      |            |Roy. 2 B. 15 |         |by Humphreys (Books
  |             |            |             |         |of Middle Ages)
  |             |            |             |         |Queen Mary's
  |             |            |             |         |Breviary.
  |             |            |             |         |
20|Gower's      |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |"        |Lancastrian style.
  |Confessio    |            |Harl. 3490   |         |
  |Amantis      |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
21|Psalter of   |St. Alban's |Brit. Mus.,  |1460     |Fine English work.
  |Queen Mary   |            |Roy. 2 B. 7  |         |Presented in 1553 to
  |             |            |             |         |Queen Mary
  |             |            |             |         |
22|Horæ         |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1460|Many mediocre
  |             |            |Harl. 2884   |         |illuminations.
  |             |            |             |         |
23|Gospels and  |London      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1508|Given by Stephen and
  |Epistles,    |            |Roy. 2 B. 12,|         |Margaret Jenyns to
  |etc.         |            |13           |         |the church at
  |             |            |             |         |Aldermanbury, London.
  |             |            |             |         |
24|Bourchier    |"           |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1458|Contains Bourchier
  |Psalter      |            |Roy. 2 B. 14 |         |obituaries.
  |             |            |             |         |
25|Psalter and  |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |c. 1470|Good text and many
  |Canticles,   |            |Harl. 1719   |         |illuminated letters
  |etc.         |            |             |         |and borders.

SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE

--+-------------+--------------------------+---------+---------------------
No|    Name.    |   Where    | Where Kept. |  Date.  |      Remarks.
  |             |  Produced. |             |         |
--+-------------+------------+-------------+---------+---------------------
 1|Hours, etc., |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |......   |Netherlandish
  |Lat. and     |            |Add. 18193   |         |influence.
  |Catalan.     |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 2|Offices      |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |......   |Italian influence.
  |B.M.V.       |            |Add. 28271   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 3|Hidalguia    |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |1604     |In Genoese manner.
  |             |            |Add. 12214   |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 4|Diploma of   |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |17th     |"
  |Philip III.  |            |Roy. Claud.  |cent.    |
  |             |            |B. x.        |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 5|Patent to    |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |1797     |Allegorical designs.
  |Princ. de la |            |Add. 1706    |         |
  |Paz          |            |             |         |
  |             |            |             |         |
 6|Ordo Miss.   |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |17th     |Roman text, good
  |Pontificales |            |Add. 30857   |cent.    |initials.
  |             |            |             |         |
 7|Portuguese   |......      |Brit. Mus.,  |......   |Written for John
  |Missal       |            |Stowe 597    |         |III., King of
  |             |            |             |         |Portugal.
  |             |            |             |         |
 8|Hidalguia de |Spain       |Brit. Mus.,  |1578     |Granted by Philip
  |Gonsalo de   |            |Add. 22143   |         |II., with his
  |Castro Cepeda|            |             |         |portrait.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Abrahams, N.C.L. Description des MSS. françaises du Moyen Age de la Bibliothèque Royale de
Copenhague. 4to. Copenhagen. 1844.

Alt, H. Die Heiligenbilder oder die bildende Kunst u. die Theologie. 8vo. Berlin, 1845.

Astle, Thomas. The Origin and Progress of Writing. 4to. London, 1784, 1803.

Barrois, J. Bibliothèque Protypographique ou librairies du roi Jean. 4to, Paris, 1830. 6 plates.

Bastard, Aug. Librairie de Jean de France duc de Berry...illustrée des plus belles miniatures
de ses MSS., etc. Folio. Paris, 1834. 32 plates.

Beissel, Stephan. Des heiligen Bernward Evangelienbuch im Dome zu Hildesheim. Mit Hdschr. des
10. und 11. Jahrh., etc. Third edition. 26 photo-lithographs (12 x 9). Hildesheim, 1894.

Beissel, Stephan. Vaticanische Miniaturen. Folio. Freiburg im Breisgau, 1893. Many lithographed
plates.

Birch, W. de G. History, Art, and Palæography of the MS. commonly styled the Utrecht Psalter.
8vo. 3 facsimile plates in autotype. B, Quaritch, London, 1876.

Birch, W. de G., and Jenner, H. Early Drawings and Illuminations (in MSS., chiefly in the British
Museum). 12mo. London, 1879.

Biscionii, A.M. Catal. bibl. Medico-Laurentiana. Folio. Florentine, 1752-7. (Valuable plates
of facsimiles, etc.)

Bradley, J.W. Life and Works of G.G. Clovio, Miniaturist, etc. 8vo. London, 1891. 18 plates.

Bradley, J.W. Dictionary of Miniaturists, Calligraphers, etc. 8vo. 3 vols. Quaritch, London,
1887-90.

Bradley, J.W. Venetian Ducali, in Bibliographica, II. 257. 4 phototypes.

Bucher, B. Geschichte des Technischen Künste, etc., vol. i. Miniatur, etc. 8vo. Stuttgart, 1875.

Cahier and Martin. Nouveaux Mélanges d'Archéologie, etc. Large 4to. Paris, 1874-77, etc. Many
fine plates of miniatures, etc., mostly without colour.

Campori, G. Gli artisti Italiani, etc., nelle Stati Estensi. 8vo. Modena, 1855.

Campori, G. Racconti artistici italiani. 8vo. Firenze, 1858.

Caravita, A. I codici e le Arti a Monte Cassino. 8vo. Montec., 1869-71.

Carta, F. Codici, corali e libri a stampa miniati della Biblioteca nazionale di Milano. Folio.
Roma, 1895. With 25 phototype facsimiles.

Chassant, Alph. Paléographie des chartes et des MSS. du 11e au 17e Siècle. 8vo. Paris, 1867,
and companion vols.

Curmer, L. Les Evangiles des Dimanches et Fêtes. Large 8vo. Paris, 1864. Many facsimiles in
gold and colours from illuminated MSS.

Delisle, L. Mém. sur l'École calligraphique de Tours au IXe Siècle. Paris, 1885. 5 heliograv.

Delisle, L. L'Évangéliaire d'Arras et la Calligraphie Franco-Saxonne du neuvième Siècle. 4to.
Paris, 1888. Large heliogravure facsimiles.

Delaunay (l'Abbé H.). Le livre d'Heures de la reine Anne de Bretagne. With facsimile of the
whole MS. Large 8vo. Paris, 1861.

Delia Valle, G. Lettere Senese, Sopra le Belle Arti. 3 vols. 8vo. Venezia, 1782-86. (Relating
to Sienese miniaturists.)

Delisle, L. Le cabinet des manuscrits de la bibliothèque impériale (in Hist. gén. de Paris).
4to. Paris, 1868.

Denis, Ferd. Histoire de l'ornementation des manuscrits. 8vo. Paris, 1858. (143 pp., with illustrations.)

Deshaines, C. Histoire de l'Art dans la Flandre, d'Artois, et le Hainaut. 8vo. Lille, 1886.

Dibdin, T.F. The Bibliographical Decameron. 3 vols. 8vo. London, 1817.

Didron (edit.). Annales Archéologiques. Periodical 4to. 1844, etc. (P.P. 1931, d. a. Brit. Mus.)

Derange, A. Cat. descr. et raisonné des manuscr. de la bibl. de Tours. 4to. Tours, 1875.

Durieux, A. Les Artistes Cambrésiens du IXe a XIXe Siècle, etc. 8vo. Cambray, 1874. (With plates
in folio.)

Durieux, A. Miniatures des manuscr. de la bibl. de Cambrai. 8vo. Cambrai, 1861. 18 plates.

Du Sommerard, Andr. Les Arts du Moyen-âge. 6 vols. Folio. Paris, 1838-46.

Fleury, E. Les MSS. à miniatures de la bibliothèque de Soissons. 4to. Paris, 1865. Lithograph
facsimiles.

Fleury, E. Les manuscrits à miniatures de la bibl. de Laon. 4to. Laon, 1863. 50 plates (good).

Gabelentz, H. von der. Zur Geschichte der oberdeutschen Miniaturmalerei im 16ten Jahrhundert.
Large 8vo. Strassburg, 1899. 12 phototypes.

Gamier, J. Catalogue descriptif et raisonné des MSS. de la bibl. de la ville d'Amiens. 8vo.
Amiens, 1843.

Girardot, B. de. Cat. des manuscrits de la bibl. de Bourges. Folio. Paris, 1859.

Gualandi, M.A. Memorie originate Italiane risguardante le Belle Arti. 8vo. Bologna, 1840-45.

Hardy, Sir Thomas D. The Athanasian Creed in Connection with the Utrecht Psalter: being a Report,
etc. With autotype facsimiles. Folio. Spottiswoode and Co., 1872.

Hendrie, R. Encyclopædia of the Arts of the Middle Ages by the monk Theophilus. Translated,
with notes. 8vo. London, 1847. One of the best collections of mediæval methods and recipes
relating to illumination.

Humphreys, H. Noel. The Illuminated Books of the Middle Ages. Folio. London, 1849. 39 plates.

Husenbeth, F.C. Emblems of Saints by which they are Distinguished in Works of Art. 8vo. London,
1850. Second edition, 1860. Third edition, 1882.

Jäck, J.J. Viele Alphabete und ganze Schriftmuster vom 8, bis zum 16, Jahrh. aus den Handschr.
der öffentl. Bibl. zu Bamberg. Folio. Bamberg, 1833-35.

James, M.R. Descriptive Catalogue of the Illuminated MSS. in the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge.
(Fine phototype facsimiles, and an excellent text.) Large 8vo. Cambridge University Press, 1895.

Jorand, J.B.J. Grammatographie du neuvième siècle. 4to. Paris, 1837. 65 plates, folio.

Kirchoff, Albr. Handschriftenhändler des Mittelalters. Second edition. 8vo. Leipzig, 1853.

Kondakov. Hist. de l'Art Byzantin consideréré...dans les miniatures. 2 vols. Small folio. Paris,
1891. Plates and woodcuts.

Kugler. Kleine Schriften. 3 vols. 8vo. Stuttgart. 1853-54. (German illumination.)

Labarte, Jules. Historie des Arts industriels au Moyen-âge. (Vol. iii.) 8vo. Paris, 1865. 2
vols. 8vo. Paris, 1855-56.

Lacroix, P. Military and Religious Life in the Middle Ages. 8vo. London, 1874.

Lacroix, P. The Arts of the Middle Ages. 4to. London, 1870.

Lacroix, P. Manners, Customs, and Dress during the Middle Ages. 4to. London, 1874.

Lacroix, Paul, and Séré Ferd. Le Moyen-âge et la Renaissance. 5 vols. 4to. Paris, 1848-52, 1874.

Lacroix, P., Fournier, Ed., and Séré, F. Livre d'or des métiers. 8vo. Paris, 1852.

Lambecius, P. Commentar. de Bibliotheca Cæsarea Vindobonensi. Folio. Vindobona (Vienna). 1670.
Plates.

Langlois, E.H. Mémoire sur la calligraphic les MSS. du Moyen-âge. 8vo. Paris, 1841. 17 plates.

Le Arti. Various Articles on Illuminated MSS., by Frizzoni, Venturi, etc. (Italian Periodical.
Roma, v. 7. 12mo. Paris, 1884. Woodcuts.

Leitschuh, F.F. Geschichte der Karolingischen Malerei, etc. Berlin, 1894. Many prototype facsimiles.

Libri, Gul. Monumens inédits. Folio. London, 1864. 65 plates.

Madden, Sir Fred. Universal Palæography. 2 vols. 8vo. London, 1850.

Marchal, J. Cat. des MSS. de la bibl. royale des dues de Bourgogne. 3 vols. 4to. Brussels, 1842.

Middleton, J.H. Illuminated MSS. in Classical and Mediæval Times: their Art and their Technique.
Large 8vo. Cambridge University Press, 1892.

Milanesi, G. Documenti per la Storia dell' arte Senese, etc. 8vo. Siena, 1854-56.

Molinier, A. Les MSS. et les Miniatures. 12mo. Paris, 1892. Woodcuts.

Monte Cassino. Paleografia artistica. Monte Cassino, 1877. Folio. Facsimiles in gold and colours,
etc., from Gothic and Lombardic MSS.

Montfaucon. Palæographia Græca. Small folio. Parisiis, 1708.

Mugnier, Fr. Les MSS. à miniatures de la Maison de Savoie, etc. 8vo. Moutiers-Tarantaise, 1894.
17 phototypes.

Ottley, W.Y. History of Engraving. 4to. London, 1816.

Peignot, Gabr. Essai sur l'histoire du parchemin et du vélin. 8vo. Paris, 1812.

Pinchart, A. Miniaturistes, Enlumineurs, et Calligraphes Employés par Philippe le Bon, etc.
8vo. Bruxelles, 1865.

Publications of the Palæographical Society of London. Folio. Vol. vii., etc. Very useful.

Quaritch, B. Examples of the Art of Book-illumination during the Middle Ages. 4to. London,
1899. Fine facsimiles in gold and colours.

Raczynski, A. (Cte.). Les arts en Portugal. 8vo. Paris, 1846.

Rahn, J.R. Das Psalterium Aureum v. Sanct Gallen. Folio. St. Gallen, 1878. u chromolithogr.
in colours and gold. 7 lithogr. and many woodcuts. (A capital account of Carolingian and Irish
MSS.)

Sacken, Ed. Frh. von. Die Ambraser Sammlung. 8vo. Wien, 1855.

Sakcinski, J.K. Leben des Giulio Clovio. 8vo. Agram, 1852.

Sakcinski, J.K. Slovnik umjetnah Jugoslavenskih. (Biographical Dict. of South Slavonic Artists.)
8vo. Uzagreba, 1858.

Sanftl, K. Dissertatio in aureum ac pervetustum SS. Evangelior. Codicem MS. Monast. S. Emmerani.
410. Ratisbonæ, 1786. Gives a large folding plate of the Gospel-book cover, and facsimiles
of illumination and writing.

Schönemann. 100 Merkwürdigkeiten des Herzoglichen Biblioth. zu Wolfenbüttel. 8vo. Hannover, 1849.

Schultz, A. Deutsches Leben in 14ten und 15ten Jahrh. 2 vols. Large 8vo. Wien, 1892. (Contains
many facsimiles in gold and colours, from German and Bohemian MSS.)

Serapeum, Zeitschrift für Bibliothekens Wissenschaft. 8vo. Leipzig. Vol. vii.

Seroux D'Agincourt, J. Historie de l'Art par les Monuments. Folio. 3 vols. Paris, 1823. London,
1847. Engravings.

Shaw, H. The Art of Illuminating as Practised in the Middle Ages. Second edition. 4to. London,
1845. Plates.

Shaw, H. Alphabets, Numerals, and Devices of the Middle Ages. Folio. London, W. Pickering,
1845. Many plates, some in gold and colours.

Silvestre, J.B. Paléographie universelle. 4 vols. Folio. Paris, 1841. 600 plates. (Plates very
good.)

Smet, J.J. de. Quelques recherches sur nos anciens enlumineurs, etc. In Bulletin de l'Académie
de Belgique, t. xiv., pt. 2, p. 78, and Bullet. du Bibliophile Belge, t. iii., p. 376, t. iv.,
p. 176.

Stokes, M. Early Christian Art in Ireland. 12mo. London, 1887. Woodcuts. (Victoria and Albert
M. Handbook.)

Swarzenski, G. Die Regensburger Buchmalerei des X. und XI. Jahrhunderts. Large 8vo. Leipzig,
1901. 35 phototypes.

Tambroni, G. Cennino Cennini: Trattato della Pittura. 8vo. Roma, 1821. Later edition (Milanesi),
Firenze, 1859. (Contains many practical directions and recipes.)

Thompson, Sir Edward M. English Illuminated MSS. In Bibliographica, vol. i. pp. 129, 385, etc.
Large 8vo. London, 1895.

Venturi, Ad. La miniatura ferrarese nel secolo XV., etc. Folio. Roma, 1899. 4 chromolithographs
and 7 phototypes. In Le Gallerie Nazionale Italiane. Vol. iv., 187.

Viel-Castel, Cte. Horace de. Statuts de l'Ordre du Saint-Esprit, etc. MS. du 14e Siècle avec
une notice sur la peinture des MSS. Large folio. Paris, 1853. 17 very fine facsimiles in gold
and colours.

Vogelsang, W. Holländische Miniaturen des späteren Mittelalters. Large 8vo. Strassburg, 1899.
Many phototype facsimiles.

Wailly, J.N. de. Élémens de Paléographie. 2 thick vols. 4to. Paris, 1838. Many plates of writing,
seals, etc.

Wallther, J.L. Lexicon diplomaticum. Folio. 1751. Many examples of writings.

Waagen, G.F. On the Importance of MSS. with Miniatures in the History of Art. 8vo. Philobiblon
Society. Vol. i. London, 1854.

Waagen, G.F. Die Vornehmsten Künstler in Wien. 8vo. Wien, 1866. (MSS. in Imperial Library,
etc., in Vienna.)

Warner, G.F. Miniatures and Borders from the Hours of Bona Sforza, Duchess of Milan. Small
4to. London, 1894. 65 sepia facsimiles.

Warner, G.F. Illuminated MSS. in the British Museum. 4to. London, 1899, etc. Many coloured
facsimiles.

Wattenbach, W. Das Schriftwesen im Mittelalter. 8vo. Leipzig, 1871.

Westwood, J.O. Palæographia Sacra Pictoria. 4to. London, 1845. 50 facsimile plates, mostly
in colours and gold.

Westwood, J.O. Miniatures and Ornaments of Anglo-Saxon and Irish MSS. Folio. Oxford, 1868.
Many fine facsimiles in colours.

Wyatt, M.D., and Tymms. The Art of Illuminating. Large 8vo. London, 1860. Many facsimiles in
gold and colours.

