Nor was this the only plan formed for the queen's rescue. The Baron de Batz was a noble of
the purest blood in France, seneschal of the Duchy of Albret, and bound by ancient ties of
hereditary friendship to the king, as the heir of Henry IV., whose most intimate confidence
had been enjoyed by his ancestor. He was still animated by all the antique feelings of chivalrous
loyalty, and from the first breaking-out of the troubles of the Revolution he had brought to
the service of his sovereign the most absolute devotion, which was rendered doubly useful by
an inexhaustible fertility of resource, and a presence of mind that nothing could daunt or
perplex. On the fatal 21st of January, he had even formed a project of rescuing Louis on his
way to the scaffold, which failed, partly from the timidity of some on whose co-operation he
had reckoned, and partly, it is said, from the reluctance of Louis himself to countenance an
enterprise which, whatever might be its result, must tend to fierce conflict and bloodshed.
Since his sovereign's death he had bent all the energies of his mind to contrive the escape
of the queen, and he had so far succeeded that he had enlisted in her cause two men whose posts
enabled them to give must effectual resistance: Michonis, who, like Toulan, was one of the
commissioners of the Council; and Cortey, a captain of the National Guard, whose company was
one of those most frequently on duty at the Temple. It seemed as if all that was necessary
to be done was to select a night for the escape when the chief outlets of the Temple should
be guarded by Cortey's men; and De Batz, who was at home in every thing that required manoeuvre
or contrivance, had provided dresses to disguise the persons of the whole family while in the
Temple, and passports and conveyances to secure their escape the moment they were outside the
gates. Every thing seemed to promise success, when at the last moment secret intelligence that
some plan or other was in agitation was conveyed to the Council. It was not sufficient to enable
them to know whom they were to guard against or to arrest, but it was enough to lead them to
send down to the Temple another commissioner whose turn of duty did not require his presence
there, but whose ferocious surliness of temper pointed him out as one not easily to be either
tricked or overborne. He was a cobbler, named Simon, the very same to whose cruel superintendence
the little king was presently intrusted.

He came down the very evening that every thing was arranged for the escape of the hapless family.
De Batz saw that all was over if he staid, and hesitated for a moment whether he should blow
out his brains, and try to accomplish the queen's deliverance by force; but a little reflection
showed him that the noise of fire-arms would bring up a crowd of enemies beyond his ability
to overpower, and it soon appeared that it would tax all his resources to secure his own escape.
He achieved that, hoping still to find some other opportunity of being useful to his royal
mistress; but none offered. The Assembly did him the honor to set a price on his head; and
at last he thought himself fortunate in being able to save himself. Those who had co-operated
with him had worse fortune. Those in authority had no proofs on which to condemn them; but
in those days suspicion was a sufficient death-warrant. Michonis and Cortey were suspected,
and in the course of the next year a belief that they had at least sympathized with the queen's
sorrows sent them both to the scaffold.

With the failure of De Batz every project of escape was abandoned; and a few weeks later the
queen congratulated herself that she had refused to flee without her boy, since in the course
of May he was seized with illness which for some days threatened to assume a dangerous character.
With a brutality which, even in such monsters as the Jacobin rulers of the city, seems almost
inconceivable, they refused to allow him the attendance of M. Brunier, the physician who had
had the charge of his infancy. It would be a breach of the principles of equality, they said,
if any prisoner were permitted to consult any but the prison doctor. But the prison doctor
was a man of sense and humanity, as well as of professional skill. He of his own accord sought
the advice of Brunier; and the poor child recovered, to be reserved for a fate which, even
in the next few weeks, was so foreshadowed, that his own mother must almost have begun to doubt
whether his restoration to health had been a blessing to her or to himself.

The spring was marked by important events. Had one so high-minded been capable of exulting
in the misfortunes of even her worst enemies, Marie Antoinette might have triumphed in the
knowledge that the murderers of her husband were already beginning that work of mutual destruction
which in little more than a year sent almost every one of them to the same scaffold on which
he had perished. The jealousies which from the first had set the Jacobins and Girondins at
variance had reached a height at which they could only be extinguished by the annihilation
of one party or the other. They had been partners in crime, and so far were equal in infamy;
but the Jacobins were the fiercer and the readier ruffians; and, after nearly two months of
vehement debates in the Convention, in which Robespierre denounced the whole body of the Girondin
leaders as plotters of treason against the State, and Vergniaud in reply reviled Robespierre
as a coward, the Jacobins worked up the mob to rise in their support. The Convention, which
hitherto had been divided in something like equality between the two factions, yielded to the
terror of a new insurrection, and on the 2d of June ordered the arrest of the Girondin leaders.
A very few escaped the search made for them by the officers--Roland, to commit suicide; Barbaroux,
to attempt it; Pétion and Buzot reached the forests to be devoured by congenial wolves. Lanjuinais,[6]
whom the decree of the Convention had identified with them, but who, even in the moments of
the greatest excitement, had kept himself clear of their wickedness and crimes, was the only
one of the whole body who completely eluded the rage of his enemies. The rest, with Madame
Roland, the first prompter of deeds of blood, languished in their well-deserved prisons till
the close of autumn, when they all perished on the same scaffold to which they had sent their
innocent sovereign.[7]

But it may be that Marie Antoinette never learned their fall; though that if she had, pity
would at least have mingled with, if it had not predominated over, her natural exultation,
she gave a striking proof in her conduct toward one from whom she had suffered great and constant
indignities. From the time that her own attendants were dismissed, the only person appointed
to assist Cléry in his duties were a man and woman named Tison, chosen for that task on account
of their surly and brutal tempers, in which the wife exceeded her husband. Both, and especially
the woman, had taken a fiendish pleasure in heaping gratuitous insults on the whole family;
but at last the dignity and resignation of the queen awakened remorse in the woman's heart,
which presently worked upon her to such a degree that she became mad. In the first days of
her frenzy she raved up and down the courtyard declaring herself guilty of the queen's murder.
She threw herself at Marie Antoinette's feet, imploring her pardon; and Marie Antoinette not
only raised her up with her own hand, and spoke gentle words of forgiveness and consolation
to her, but, after she had been removed to a hospital, showed a kind interest in her condition,
and amidst all her own troubles found time to write a note to express her anxiety that the
invalid should have proper attention.[8]

But very soon a fresh blow was struck at the hapless queen which made her indifferent to all
else that could happen, and even to her own fate, of which it may be regarded as the precursor.
At ten o'clock on the 3d of July, when the little king was sleeping calmly, his mother having
hung a shawl in front of his bed to screen his eyes from the light of the candle by which she
and Elizabeth were mending their clothes, the door of their chamber was violently thrown open,
and six commissioners entered to announce to the queen that the Convention had ordered the
removal of her boy, that he might he committed to the care of a tutor--the tutor named being
the cobbler, Simon, whose savageness of disposition was sufficiently attested by the fact of
his having been chosen on the recommendation of Marat. At this unexpected blow, Marie Antoinette's
fortitude and resignation at last gave way. She wept, she remonstrated, she humbled herself
to entreat mercy. She threw her arms around her child, and declared that force itself should
not tear him from her. The commissioners were not men likely to feel or show pity. They abused
her; they threatened her. She begged them rather to kill her than take her son. They would
not kill her, but they swore that they would murder both him and her daughter before her eyes
if he were not at once surrendered. There was no more resistance. His aunt and sister took
him from the bed and dressed him. His mother, with a voice choked by her sobs, addressed him
the last words he was ever to hear from her. "My child, they are taking you from me; never
forget the mother who loves you tenderly, and never forget God! Be good, gentle, and honest,
and your father will look down on you from heaven and bless you!" "Have you done with this
preaching?" said the chief commissioner. "You have abused our patience finely," another added;
"the nation is generous, and will take care of his education." But she had fainted, and heard
not these words of mocking cruelty. Nothing could touch her further.

If it be not also a mockery to speak of happiness in connection with this most afflicted queen,
she was happy in at least not knowing the details of the education which was in store for the
noble boy whose birth had apparently secured for him the most splendid of positions, and whose
opening virtues seemed to give every promise that he would be worthy of his rank and of his
mother. A few days afterward Simon received his instructions from a committee of the Convention,
of which Drouet, the postmaster of Ste. Menehould, was the chief. "How was he to treat the
wolf cub?" he asked (it was one of the mildest names he ever gave him). "Was he to kill him?"
"No." "To poison him?" "No." "What then?" "He was to get rid of him,[9]" and Simon carried
out this instruction by the most unremitting ill-treatment of his pupil. He imposed upon him
the most menial offices; he made him clean his shoes; he reviled him; he beat him; he compelled
him to wear the red cap and jacket which had been adopted as the Revolutionary dress; and one
day, when his mother obtained a glimpse of him as he was walking on the leads of the tower
to which he had been transferred, it caused her an additional pang to see that he had been
stripped of the suit of mourning for his father, and had been clothed in the garments which,
in her eyes, were the symbol, of all that was most impious and most loathsome.

All these outrages were but the prelude of the final blow which was to fall on herself; and
it shows how great was the fear with which her lofty resolution had always had inspired the
Jacobins--fear with such natures being always the greatest exasperation of hatred and the keenest
incentive to cruelty--that, when they had resolved to consummate her injuries by her murder,
they did not leave her in the Temple as they had left her husband, but removed her to the Conciergerie,
which in those days, fitly denominated the Reign of Terror, rarely led but to the scaffold.
On the night of the 1st of August (the darkest hours were appropriately chosen for deeds of
such darkness) another body of commissioners entered her room, and woke her up to announce
that they had come to conduct her to the common prison. Her sister and her daughter begged
in vain to be allowed to accompany her. She herself scarcely spoke a word, but dressed herself
in silence, made up a small bundle of clothes, and, after a few words of farewell and comfort
to those dear ones who had hitherto been her companions, followed her jailers unresistingly,
knowing, and for her own sake certainly not grieving, that she was going to meet her doom.
As she passed through the outer door it was so low that she struck her head. One of the commissioners
had so much decency left as to ask if she was hurt. "No," she replied, "nothing now can hurt
me.[10]" Six weeks later, an English gentleman saw her in her dungeon. She was freely exhibited
to any one who desired to behold her, on the sole condition--a condition worthy of the monsters
who exacted it, and of them alone--that he should show no sign of sympathy or sorrow.[11] "She
was sitting on an old worn-out chair made of straw which scarcely supported her weight. Dressed
in a gown which had once been white, her attitude bespoke the immensity of her grief, which
appeared to have created a kind of stupor, that fortunately rendered her less sensible to the
injuries and reproaches which a number of inhuman wretches were continually vomiting forth
against her."

Even after all the atrocities and horrors of the last twelve months, the news of the resolution
to bring her to a trial, which, it was impossible to doubt, it was intended to follow up by
her execution, was received as a shook by the great bulk of the nation, as indeed by all Europe.
And Necker's daughter, Madame de Staël, who, as we have seen, had been formerly desirous to
aid in her escape, now addressed an energetic and eloquent appeal to the entire people, calling
on all persons of all parties, "Republicans, Constitutionalists, and Aristocrats alike, to
unite for her preservation." She left unemployed no fervor of entreaty, no depth of argument.
She reminded them of the universal admiration which the queen's beauty and grace had formerly
excited, when "all France thought itself laid under an obligation by her charms;[12]" of the
affection that she had won by her ceaseless acts of beneficence and generosity. She showed
the absurdity of denouncing her as "the Austrian"--her who had left Vienna while still little
more than a child, and had ever since fixed her heart as well as her home in France. She argued
truly that the vagueness, the ridiculousness, the notorious falsehood of the accusations brought
against her were in themselves her all-sufficient defense. She showed how useless to every
party and in every point of view must be her condemnation. What danger could any one apprehend
from restoring to liberty a princess whose every thought was tenderness and pity? She reproached
those who now held sway in France with the barbarity of their proscriptions, with governing
by terror and by death, with having overthrown a throne only to erect a scaffold in its place;
and she declared that the execution of the queen would exceed in foulness all the other crimes
that they had yet committed. She was a foreigner, she was a woman; to put her to death would
be a violation of all the laws of hospitality as well as of all the laws of nature. The whole
universe was interesting itself in the queen's fate. Woe to the nation which knew neither justice
nor generosity! Freedom would never be the destiny of such a people.[13]

It had not been from any feeling of compunction or hesitation that those who had her fate in
their hands left her so long in her dungeon, but from the absolute impossibility of inventing
an accusation against her that should not be utterly absurd and palpably groundless. So difficult
did they find their task, that the jailer, a man named Richard, who, when alone, ventured to
show sympathy for her miseries, sought to encourage her by the assurance that she would be
replaced in the Temple. But Marie Antoinette indulged in no such illusion. She never doubted
that her death was resolved on. "No," she replied to his well-meant words of hope, "they have
murdered the king; they will kill me in the same way. Never again shall I see my unfortunate
children, my tender and virtuous sister." And the tears which her own sufferings could not
wring from her flowed freely when she thought of what they were still enduring.

But at last the eagerness for her destruction overcame all difficulties or scruples. The principal
articles of the indictment charged her with helping to overthrow the republic and to effect
the reestablishment of the throne; with having exerted her influence over her husband to mislead
his judgment, to render him unjust to his people, and to induce him to put his veto on laws
of which they desired the enactment; with having caused scarcity and famine; with having favored
aristocrats; and with having kept up a constant correspondence with her brother, the emperor;
and the preamble and the peroration compared her to Messalina, Agrippina, Brunehaut, and Catherine
de' Medici--to all the wickedest women of whom ancient or modern history had preserved a record.
Had she been guided by her own feelings alone, she would have probably disdained to defend
herself against charges whose very absurdity proved that they were only put forward as a pretense
for a judgment that had been previously decided on. But still, as ever, she thought of her
child, her fair and good son, her "gentle infant," her king. While life lasted she could never
wholly relinquish the hope that she might see him once again, perhaps even that some unlooked-for
chance (none could be so unexpected as almost every occurrence of the last four years) might
restore him and her to freedom, and him to his throne; and for his sake she resolved to exert
herself to refute the charges, and at least to establish her right to acquittal and deliverance.

Louis had been tried before the Convention. Marie Antoinette was to be condemned by the, if
possible, still more infamous court that had been established in the spring under the name
of the Revolutionary Tribunal; and on the 13th of October she was at last conducted before
a small sub-committee, and subjected to a private examination. To every question she gave firm
and clear answers.[14] She declared that the French people had indeed been deceived, but not
by her or by her husband. She affirmed "that the happiness of France always had been, and still
was, the first wish of her heart;" and that "she should not even regret the loss of her son's
throne, if it led to the real happiness of the country." She was taken back to her cell. The
next day the four judges of the tribunal took their seats in the court. Fouquier-Tinville,
the public prosecutor, a man whose greed of blood stamped him with an especial hideousness,
even in those days of universal barbarity, took his seat before them; and eleven men, the greater
part of whom had been carefully picked from the very dregs of the people--journeymen carpenters,
tailors, blacksmiths, and discharged policemen--were constituted the jury.

Before this tribunal--we will not dignify it with the name of a court of justice--Marie Antoinette,
the widow Capet, as she was called in the indictment, was now brought. Clad in deep mourning
for her murdered husband, and aged beyond her years by her long series of sorrows, she still
preserved the fearless dignity which became her race and rank and character. As she took her
place at the bar and cast her eyes around the hall, even the women who thronged the court,
debased as they were, were struck by her lofty demeanor. "How proud she is!" was the exclamation,
the only sign of nervousness that she gave being that, as those who watched her closely remarked,
she moved her fingers up and down on the arm of her chair, as if she had been playing on the
harpsichord. The prosecutor brought up witness after witness; some whom it was believed that
some ancient hatred, others whom it was expected that some hope of pardon for themselves, might
induce to give evidence such as was required. The Count d'Estaing had always been connected
with her enemies. Bailly, once Mayor of Paris, as has been seen, had sought a base popularity
by the wantonness of the unprovoked insults which he had offered to the king. Michonis knew
that his head was imperiled by suspicions of his recent desire to assist her. But one and all
testified to her entire innocence of the different charges which they had been brought forward
to support, and to the falsehood of the statements contained in the indictment. Her own replies,
when any question was addressed to herself, were equally in her favor. When accused of having
been the prompter of the political mesures of the king's government, her answer could not be
denied to be in accordance with the law: "That she was the wife and subject of the king, and
could not be made responsible for his resolutions and actions." When charged with general indifference
or hostility to the happiness of the people, she affirmed with equal calmness, as she had previously
declared at her private examination, that the welfare of the nation had been, and always was,
the first of her wishes.

Once only did a question provoke an answer in any other tone than that of a lofty imperturbable
equanimity. She had not known till that moment the depth of her enemies' wickedness, or the
cruelty with which her son's mind had been dealt with, worse ten thousand times than the foulest
tortures that could be applied to the body. Both her children had been subjected to an examination,
in the hope that something might be found to incriminate her in the words of those who might
hardly be able to estimate the exact value of their expressions. The princess had been old
enough to baffle the utmost malice of her questioners; and the boy had given short and plain
replies from which nothing to suit their purpose could be extracted, till they forced him to
drink brandy, and, when he was stupefied with drink, compelled him to sign depositions in which
he accused both the queen and Elizabeth of having trained him in lessons of vice. At first,
horror at so monstrous a charge had sealed the queen's lips; but when she gave no denial, a
juryman questioned her on the subject, and insisted on an answer. Then at last Marie Antoinette
spoke in sublime indignation. "If I have not answered, it was because nature itself rejects
such an accusation made against a mother. I appeal from it to every mother who hears me."

Marie Antoinette had been allowed two counsel, who, perilous as was the duty imposed upon them,
cheerfully accepted it as an honor; but it was not intended that their assistance should be
more than nominal. She had only known their names on the evening preceding the trial; but when
she addressed a letter to the President of the Convention, demanding a postponement of the
trial for three days, as indispensable to enable them to master the case, since as yet they
had not had time even to read the whole of the indictment, adding that "her duty to her children
bound her to leave nothing undone which was requisite for the entire justification of their
mother," the request was rudely refused; and all that the lawyers could do was to address eloquent
appeals to the judges and jurymen, being utterly unable, on so short notice, to analyze as
they deserved the arguments of the prosecutor or the testimony by which he had professed to
support them. But before such a tribunal it signified little what was proved or disproved,
or what was the strength or weakness of the arguments employed on either side. It was long
after midnight of the second day that the trial concluded. The jury at once pronounced the
prisoner guilty. The judges as instantly passed sentence of death, and ordered it to be executed
the next morning.

It was nearly five in the morning of the 16th of October when the favorite daughter of the
great Empress-queen, herself Queen of France, was led from the court, not even to the wretched
room which she had occupied for the last ten weeks, but to the condemned cell, never tenanted
before by any but the vilest felons. Though greatly exhausted by the length of the proceedings,
she had heard the sentence without betraying the slightest emotion by any change of countenance
or gesture. On reaching her cell she at once asked for writing materials. They had been withheld
from her for more than a year, but they were now brought to her; and with them she wrote her
last letter to that princess whom she had long learned to love as a sister of her own, who
had shared her sorrows hitherto, and who, at no distant period, was to share the fate which
was now awaiting herself.

"16th October, 4.30 A.M.

"It is to you, my sister, that I write for the last time. I have just been condemned, not to
a shameful death, for such is only for criminals, but to go and rejoin your brother. Innocent
like him, I hope to show the same firmness in my last moments. I am calm, as one is when one's
conscience reproaches one with nothing. I feel profound sorrow in leaving my poor children:
you know that I only lived for them and for you, my good and tender sister. You who out of
love have sacrificed everything to be with us, in what a position do I leave you! I have learned
from the proceedings at my trial that my daughter was separated from you. Alas! poor child;
I do not venture to write to her; she would not receive my letter. I do not even know whether
this will reach you. Do you receive my blessing for both of them. I hope that one day when
they are older they may be able to rejoin you, and to enjoy to the full your tender care. Let
them both think of the lesson which I have never ceased to impress upon them, that the principles
and the exact performance of their duties are the chief foundation of life; and then mutual
affection and confidence in one another will constitute its happiness. Let my daughter feel
that at her age she ought always to aid her brother by the advice which her greater experience
and her affection may inspire her to give him. And let my son in his turn render to his sister
all the care and all the services which affection can inspire. Let them, in short, both feel
that, in whatever positions they may be placed, they will never be truly happy but through
their union. Let them follow our example. In our own misfortunes how much comfort has our affection
for one another afforded us! And, in times of happiness, we have enjoyed that doubly from being
able to share it with a friend; and where can one find friends more tender and more united
than in one's own family? Let my son never forget the last words of his father, which I repeat
emphatically; let him never seek to avenge our deaths. I have to speak to you of one thing
which is very painful to my heart, I know how much pain the child must have caused you. Forgive
him, my dear sister; think of his age, and how easy it is to make a child say whatever one
wishes, especially when he does not understand it.[15] It will come to pass one day, I hope,
that he will better feel the value of your kindness and of your tender affection for both of
them. It remains to confide to you my last thoughts. I should have wished to write them at
the beginning of my trial; but, besides that they did not leave me any means of writing, events
have passed so rapidly that I really have not had time.

"I die in the Catholic Apostolic and Roman religion, that of my fathers, that in which I was
brought up, and which I have always professed. Having no spiritual consolation to look for,
not even knowing whether there are still in this place any priests of that religion[16] (and
indeed the place where I am would expose them to too much danger if they were to enter it but
once), I sincerely implore pardon of God for all the faults which I may have committed during
my life. I trust that, in his goodness, he will mercifully accept my last prayers, as well
as those which I have for a long time addressed to him, to receive my soul into his mercy.
I beg pardon of all whom I know, and especially of you, my sister, for all the vexations which,
without intending it, I may have caused you. I pardon all my enemies the evils that they have
done me. I bid farewell to my aunts and to all my brothers and sisters. I had friends. The
idea of being forever separated from them and from all their troubles is one of the greatest
sorrows that I suffer in dying. Let them at least know that to my latest moment I thought of them.

"Farewell, my good and tender sister. May this letter reach you. Think always of me; I embrace
you with all my heart, as I do my poor dear children. My God, how heart-rending it is to leave
them forever! Farewell! farewell! I must now occupy myself with my spiritual duties, as I am
not free in my actions. Perhaps they will bring me a priest; but I here protest that I will
not say a word to him, but that I will treat him as a person absolutely unknown."

Her forebodings were realized; her letter never reached Elizabeth, but was carried to Fouquier,
who placed it among his special records. Yet, if in those who had thus wrought the writer's
destruction there had been one human feeling, it might have been awakened by the simple dignity
and unaffected pathos of this sad farewell. No line that she ever wrote was more thoroughly
characteristic of her. The innocence, purity, and benevolence of her soul shine through every
sentence. Even in that awful moment she never lost her calm, resigned fortitude, nor her consideration
for others. She speaks of and feels for her children, for her friends, but never for herself.
And it is equally characteristic of her that, even in her own hopeless situation, she still
can cherish hope for others, and can look forward to the prospect of those whom she loves being
hereafter united in freedom and happiness. She thought, it may be, that her own death would
be the last sacrifice that her enemies would require. And for even her enemies and murderers
she had a word of pardon, and could address a message of mercy for them to her son, who, she
trusted, might yet some day have power to show that mercy she enjoined, or to execute the vengeance
which with her last breath she deprecated.

She threw herself on her bed and fell asleep. At seven she was roused by the executioner. The
streets were already thronged with a fierce and sanguinary mob, whose shouts of triumph were
so vociferous that she asked one of her jailers whether they would tear her to pieces. She
was assured that, as he expressed it, they would do her no harm. And indeed the Jacobins themselves
would have protected her from the populace, so anxious were they to heap on her every indignity
that would render death more terrible. Louis had been allowed to quit the Temple in his carriage.
Marie Antoinette was to be drawn from the prison to the scaffold in a common cart, seated on
a bare plank; the executioner by her side, holding the cords with which her hands were already
bound. With a refinement of barbarity, those who conducted the procession made it halt more
than once, that the people might gaze upon her, pointing her out to the mob with words and
gestures of the vilest insult. She heard them not; her thoughts were with God: her lips were
uttering nothing but prayers. Once for a moment, as she passed in sight of the Tuileries, she
was observed to cast an agonized look toward its towers, remembering, perhaps, how reluctantly
she had quit it fourteen months before. It was midday before the cart reached the scaffold.
As she descended, she trod on the executioner's foot. It might seem to have been ordained that
her very last words might be words of courtesy. "Excuse me, sir," she said, "I did not do it
on purpose;" and she added, "make haste." In a few moments all was over.

Her body was thrown into a pit in the common cemetery, and covered with quicklime to insure
its entire destruction. When, more than twenty years afterward, her brother-in-law was restored
to the throne, and with pious affection desired to remove her remains and those of her husband
to the time-honored resting-place of their royal ancestors at St. Denis, no remains of her
who had once been the admiration of all beholders could be found beyond some fragments of clothing,
and one or two bones, among which the faithful memory of Châteaubriand believed that he recognized
the mouth whose sweet smile had been impressed on his memory since the day on which it acknowledged
his loyalty on his first presentation, while still a boy, at Versailles.

Thus miserably perished, by a death fit only for the vilest of criminals, Marie Antoinette,
the daughter of one sovereign, the wife of another, who had never wronged or injured one human
being. No one was ever more richly endowed with all the charms which render woman attractive,
or with all the virtues that make her admirable. Even in her earliest years, her careless and
occasionally undignified levity was but the joyous outpouring of a pure innocence of heart
that, as it meant no evil, suspected none; while it was ever blended with a kindness and courtesy
which sprung from a genuine benevolence. As queen, though still hardly beyond girlhood when
she ascended the throne, she set herself resolutely to work by her admonitions, and still more
effectually by her example, to purify a court of which for centuries the most shameless profligacy
had been the rule and boast; discountenancing vice and impiety by her marked reprobation, and
reserving all her favor and protection for genius and patriotism, and honor and virtue. Surrounded
at a later period by unexampled dangers and calamities, she showed herself equal to every vicissitude
of fortune, and superior to its worst frowns. If her judgment occasionally erred, it was in
cases where alternatives of evil were alone offered to her choice, and in which it is even
now scarcely possible to decide what course would have been wiser or safer than that which
she adopted. And when at last the long conflict was terminated by the complete victory of her
combined enemies-- when she, with her husband and her children, was bereft not only of power,
but even of freedom, and was a prisoner in the hands of those whose unalterable object was
her destruction--she bore her accumulated miseries with a serene resignation, an intrepid fortitude,
a true heroism of soul, of which the history of the world does not afford a brighter example.

FOOTNOTES

PREFACE

[1] One entitled "Marie-Antoinette, correspondance secrète entre Marie- Thérèse et le Comte
Mercy d'Argenteau, avec des lettres de Marie-Thérèse et de Marie-Antoinette." (The edition
referred to in this work is the greatly enlarged second edition in three volumes, published
at Paris, 1875.) The second is entitled "Marie-Antoinette, Joseph II., and Leopold II," published
at Leipsic, 1866.

[2] Entitled "Louis XVI, Marie-Antoinette, et Madame Elizabeth," in six volumes, published
at intervals from 1864 to 1873.

[3] In his "Nouveau Lundi," March 5th, 1866, M. Sainte-Beuve challenged M. Feuillet de Conches
to a more explicit defense of the authenticity of his collection than he had yet vouchsafed;
complaining, with some reason, that his delay in answering the charges brought against it "was
the more vexatious because his collection was only attacked in part, and in many points remained
solid and valuable." And this challenge elicited from M.F. de Conches a very elaborate explanation
of the sources from which he procured his documents, which he published in the Revue des Deux
Mondes, July 15th, 1866, and afterward in the Preface to his fourth volume. That in a collection
of nearly a thousand documents he may have occasionally been too credulous in accepting cleverly
executed forgeries as genuine letters is possible, and even probable; in fact, the present
writer regards it as certain. But the vast majority, including all those of the greatest value,
can not be questioned without imputing to him a guilty knowledge that they were forgeries--a
deliberate bad faith, of which no one, it is believed, has ever accused him.

It may be added that it is only from the letters of this later period that any quotations are
made in the following work; and the greater part of the letters so cited exists in the archives
at Vienna, while the others, such as those, addressed by the Queen, to Madame de Polignac,
etc., are just such as were sure to be preserved as relics by the families of those to whom
they were addressed, and can therefore hardly be considered as liable to the slightest suspicion.

CHAPTER I.

[1] Sainte-Beuve, "Nouveaux Lundis," August 8th, 1864.

CHAPTER II.

[1] "Histoire de Marie Antoinette," par E. and J. de Goncourt, p. 11.

[2] How popular masked halls were in London at this time may be learned from Walpole's "Letters,"
and especially from a passage in which he gives an account of one given by "sixteen or eighteen
young Lords" just two months before this ball at Vienna.--Walpole to Mann, dated February 27th,
1770.

[3] "Mémoires concernant Marie Antoinette," par Joseph Weber (her foster- brother), i., p. 6.

[4] "Goethe's Biography," p. 287.

[5] "Mémoires de Bachaumont," January 30th, 1770.

[6] La maison du roi.

[7] Chevalier d'honneur. We have no corresponding office at the English court.

[8] The king said, "Vous étiez déjà de la famille, car votre mère a l'âme de Louis le Grand."--SAINTE-BEUVE,
Nouveaux Lundis, viii., p. 322.

[9] In the language of the French heralds, the title princes of the royal family was confined
to the children or grandchildren of the reigning sovereign. His nephews and cousins were only
princes of the blood.

CHAPTER III.

[1] The word is Maria Teresa's own; "anti-français" occurring in more than one of her letters.

[2] Quoted by Mme. du Deffand in a letter to Walpole, dated May 19th, 1770 ("Correspondance
complète de Mme. du Deffand," ii., p.59). For the sake of brevity, this Collection will be
hereafter referred to as "Arneth."

[4] "The King of France is both hated and despised, which seldom happens to the same man."--LORD
CHESTERFIELD, Letter to Mr. Dayrolles, dated May 19th, 1752.

[5] Maria Teresa died in December, 1780.

[6] Mme. du Deffand, letter of May 19th, 1770.

[7] Chambier, i., p. 60.

[8] Mme. de Campan, i., p. 3.

[9] He told Mercy she was "'vive et un peu enfant, mais," ajouta-t-il, "cela est bien de son
âge.'"--ARNETH, i., p. 11.

[10] Arneth, i., p.9-16

CHAPTER IV.

[1] Dates 9th and 12th., Arneth, i., pp. 16, 18.

