Many men, and also many women, as well of the order of Poissardes (which are a class almost
of the same species and rank with our fishwomen, and who are easily distinguished by their
red cotton bibs and aprons) as others, ran about the gardens, ripping open the bellies, and
dashing out the brains of several of the naked dead Swiss.[27]

[Note 27: At the taking of the Bastille, on the day of which only eighty-three persons were
killed on the spot, though fifteen died afterwards of their wounds, these Poissardes were likewise
foremost in bravery and in cruelty, so much, that the Parisians themselves ran away from them
as soon as they saw them at a distance. They are armed, some with sabres and others with pikes.]

At six in the evening I saw a troop of national guards and sans-culottes kill a Swiss who was
running away, by cleaving his skull with a dozen sabres at once, on the Pont-royal, and then
cast him into the river, in less time than it takes to read this, and afterwards walk quietly on.

The shops were shut all this day, and also the theatres; no coaches were about the streets,
at least not near the place of carnage; the houses were lighted up, and patroles paraded the
streets all night. Not a single house was pillaged.

The barracks were still in flames, as well as the houses of the Swiss porters at the end of
the gardens; these last gave light to five or six waggons which were employed all night in
carrying away the dead carcases.

STATUES PULLED DOWN. NEW NAMES.

THE next day, Saturday the 11th, about an hundred Swiss who had not been in the palace placed
themselves under the protection of the National Assembly. They were sent to the Palais Bourbon
escorted by the Marseillois, with Mr. Petion at their head, in order to be tried by a court-martial.

The people were now employed, some in hanging thieves, others with Mademoiselle Teroigne on
horseback at their head, in pulling down the statues of the French Kings.

The first was the equestrian one in bronze of Lewis XV. in the square of the same name, at
the end of the Tuileries gardens; this was the work of Bouchardon, and was erected in 1763.
At the corners of the pedestal were the statues, also in bronze, of strength, peace, prudence,
and justice, by Pigalle. Many smiths were employed in filing the iron bars within the horse's
legs and feet, which fastened it to the marble pedestal, and the sans-culottes pulled it down
by ropes, and broke it to pieces; as likewise the four statues above-mentioned, the pedestal,
and the new magnificent balustrade of white marble which surrounded it.

The next was the equestrians statue of Lewis XIV. in the Place Vendôme, cast in bronze, in
a single piece, by Keller, from the model of Girardon; twenty men might with ease have sat
round a table in the belly of the horse; it stood on a pedestal of white marble of thirty feet
in height, twenty-four in length, and thirteen in breadth. This statue crushed a man to pieces
by falling on him, which must be attributed to the inexperience of the pullers-down.

The third was a pedestrian statue of Lewis XIV. in the Place Victoire, of lead, gilt, on a
pedestal of white marble; a winged figure, representing victory, with one hand placed a crown
of laurels on his head, and in the other held a bundle of palm and olive branches. The king
was represented treading on Cerberus and the whole group was a single cast. There were formerly
four bronze slaves at the corners of the pedestal, each of twelve feet high; these were removed
in 1790. The whole monument was thirty-five feet high, and was erected in 1689, at the expence
of the Duke de la Feuillade, who likewise left his duchy to his heirs, on condition that they
should cause the whole group to be new gilt every twenty-five years; and who was buried under
the pedestal.

On Sunday the 12th, at about noon, the equestrian statue, in bronze, of Henry IV. which was
on the Pont-neuf, was pulled down; this was erected in 1635, and was the first of the kind
in Paris. The horse was begun at Florence, by Giovanni Bologna, a pupil of Michael Angelo,
finished by Pietro Tacca, and sent as a present to Mary of Medicis, widow of Henry IV. Regent.
It was shipped at Leghorn, and the vessel which contained it was lost on the coast of Normandy,
near Havre de Grace, the horse remained a year in the sea, it was, however, got out and sent
to Paris in 1614.

This statue used to be the idol of the Parisians; immediately after the revolution it was decorated
with the national cockade; during three evenings after the federation, in 1790, magnificent
festivals were celebrated before it.

It was broken in many pieces by the fall; the bronze was not half an inch thick, and the hollow
part was filled up with brick earth.

The fifth and last was overthrown in the afternoon of the same day; it was situated in the
Place Royale; it was an equestrian statue in bronze, of Lewis XIII. on a vast pedestal of white
marble; it was erected in 1639. The horse was the work of Daniel Volterra; the figure of the
king was by Biard.

The people were several days employed in pulling down all the statues and busts of kings and
queens they could find. On the Monday I saw a marble or stone statue, as large as the life,
tumbled from the top of the Hôtel de Ville into the Place de Grêve, at that time full of people,
by which two men were killed, as I was told, and I did not wish to verify the assertion myself,
but retired.

They then proceeded to deface and efface every crown, every fleur de lis, every inscription
wherein the words king, queen, prince, royal, or the like, were found. The hotels and lodging-houses
were compelled to erase and change their names, that of the Prince de Galles must be called
de Galles only; that of Bourbon must have a new name; a sign au lys d'or (the golden lily)
was pulled down; even billiard tables are no longer noble or royal.

The Pont-royal, the new bridge of Lewis XVI. the Place des Victoires, the Place Royal, the
Rue d'Artois, &c. have all new names, which, added to the division of the kingdom into eighty-three
departments, abolishing all the ancient noble names of Bourgogne, Champagne, Provence, Languedoc,
Bretagne, Navarre, Normandie, &c. and in their stead substituting such as these: Ain, Aube,
Aude, Cher, Creuse, Doubs, Eure, Gard, Gers, Indre, Lot, Orne, Sarte, Tarne, Var, &c. which
are the names of insignificant rivers; to that of Paris into forty-eight new sections, and
to all titles being likewise abolished, makes it very difficult for a stranger to know any
thing about the geography of the kingdom, nor what were the ci-devant titles of such of the
nobility as still remain in France, and who are at present only known by their family names.

BEHEADING. DEAD NAKED BODIES.

BUT to return to those "active citizens, whom aristocratic insolence has stiled sans-culottes,
brigands."[28]

[Note 28: These are the words of a French newspaper, called, Journal universel, ou Revolutions
des Royaumes, par J. P. Audarin. No. 994, for Sunday, 12 August, 4th year of Liberty, under
the motto of Liberty, Patriotism and Truth.]

On Sunday, they dragged a man to the Hôtel de Ville, before a magistrate, to be tried, for
having stolen something in the Tuileries as they said. He was accordingly tried, searched,
and nothing being found on him, was acquitted; n'importe, said these citizens, we must have
his head for all that, for we caught him in the act of stealing. They laid him on his back
on the ground, and in the presence of the judge, who had acquitted him, they sawed off his
head in about a quarter of an hour, with an old notched scythe, and then gave it to the boys
to carry about on a pike, leaving the carcase in the justice-hall.[29]

[Note 29: This is inserted on the authority of a lady, a native of the French West-India isles,
who resided in the same hotel with me, and who, with two gentlemen who attended her, were witnesses
to this transaction, which they told to whoever chose to listen.]

At the corner of almost every chief street is a black marble slab, inserted in the wall about
ten feet high, on which is cut in large letters, gilt, Loix et actes de l'autorité publique
(laws and acts of the public authority) and underneath are pasted the daily and sometimes hourly
decrees and notices of the National Assembly. One of these acquainted the citizens, that Mandat
(the former commander-general of the national guards) had yesterday undergone the punishment
due to his crimes; that is to say, the people had cut off his head.

During several days, after the day I procured all the Paris newspapers, about twenty, but all
on the same side, as the people had put the editors of the aristocratic papers, hors d'état
de parler (prevented their speaking) by beheading one or two of them, and destroying all their
presses.

They, about this time, hanged two money changers (people who gave paper for louis d'or, crowns,
and guineas) under the idea that the money was sent to the emigrants.

On the Saturday morning, at seven, I was in the Tuileries gardens; only thirty-eight dead naked
bodies were still lying there; they were however covered where decency required; the people
who stript them on the preceding evening, having cut a gash in the belly, and left a bit of
the shirt sticking to the carcase by means of the dried blood. I was told, that the body of
a lady had just been carried out of the Carousel square; she was the only woman killed, and
that probably by accident. Here I had the pleasure of seeing many beautiful ladies (and ugly
ones too as I thought) walking arm in arm with their male friends, though so early in the morning,
and forming little groups, occupied in contemplating the mangled naked and stiff carcases.

The fair sex has been equally courageous and curious, in former times, in this as well as in
other countries; and of this we shall produce a few instances, as follows:

COURAGE AND CURIOSITY OF THE FAIR SEX. MASSACRE IN 1572.

ON the 24th of August, St. Bartholemew's day, 1572, the massacre of the Hugonots or or Calvinists,
began by the murder of Admiral Coligni the signal was to have been given at midnight; but Catherine
of Medicis, mother to the then King Charles IX. (who was only two and twenty years of age)
hastened the signal more than an hour, and endeavoured to encourage her son, by quoting a passage
from a sermon: "What pity do we not shew in being cruel? what cruelty would it not be to have
pity?"

In Mr. Wraxall's account of this massacre, in his Memoirs of the Kings of France of the Race
of Valois, compiled from all the French historians, he says, Soubise, covered with wounds,
after a long and gallant defence, was finally put to death under the queen-mother's windows.
The ladies of the court, from a savage and horrible curiosity, went to view his naked body,
disfigured and bloody.

"An Italian first cut off Coligni's head, which was presented to Catherine of Medicis. The
populace then exhausted all their brutal and unrestrained fury on the trunk. They cut off the
hands, after which it was left on a dunghill; in the afternoon they took it up again, dragged
it three days in the dirt, then on the banks of the Seine, and lastly carried it to Montfaucon
(an eminence between the Fauxbourg St. Martin and the Temple, on which they erected a gallows.)
It was here hung by the feet with an iron chain, and a fire lighted under it, with which it
was half roasted. In this situation the King and several of the courtiers went to survey it.
These remains were at length taken down privately in the night, and interred at Chantilly."

"During seven days the massacre did not cease, though its extreme fury spent itself in the
two first."

"Every enormity, every profanation, every atrocious crime, which zeal, revenge, and cruel policy
are capable of influencing mankind to commit, stain the dreadful registers of this unhappy
period. More than five thousand persons of all ranks perished by various species of deaths.
The Seine was loaded with carcases floating on it, and Charles fed his eyes from the windows
of the Louvre, with this unnatural and abominable spectacle of horror. A butcher who entered
the palace during the heat of the massacre, boasted to his sovereign, baring his bloody arm,
that he himself had dispatched an hundred and fifty."

"Catherine of Medicis, the presiding demon, who scattered destruction in so many shapes, was
not melted into pity at the view of such complicated and extensive misery; she gazed with savage
satisfaction on the head of Coligni which was brought her."

Sully only slightly mentions this massacre of which he was notwithstanding an eye-witness,
because he was but twelve years of age.

Mezeray gives the most circumstantial account of it; he says, "The streets were paved with
dead or dying bodies, the portes-cochêres, (great gates of the hotels) were stopped up with
them, there were heaps of them in the public squares, the street-kennels overflowed with blood,
which ran gushing into the river. Six hundred houses were pillaged at different times, and
four thousand persons were massacred with all the inhumanity and all the tumult than can be
imagined."

"Among the slain was Charles de Quelleue Pontivy, likewise called Soubise, because he had married
Catherine, only daughter and heiress of Jean de Partenay Baron de Soubise: this Lady had entered
an action against him for impotence; His naked dead body being among others dragged before
the Louvre, there were ladies curious enough to examine leisurely, if they could discover the
cause or the marks of the defeat of which he had been accused."

Brantome, in his memoirs of Charles IX. says, "As soon as it was day the king looked out of
the window, and seeing that many people were running away in the fauxbourg St. Germain, he
took a large hunting arquebuse, and shot at them many times, but in vain, for the gun did not
carry so far."[30]

[Note 30: The king was shooting from the Louvre, and the Fauxbourg St. Germain is on the other
side of the river.]

"He took great pleasure in seeing floating in the river, under his windows, more than four
thousand dead bodies."

A French writer, Mr. du Laure, in a Description of Paris, just published, says, "About thirty
thousand persons were killed on that night in Paris and in the country; few of the citizens
but were either assassins or assassinated. Ambition, the hatred of the great, of a woman, the
feebleness and cruelty of a king, the spirit of party, the fanaticism of the people, animated
those scenes of horror, which do not depose so much against the French nation, at that time
governed by strangers, as against the passions of the great, and the ill-directed zeal of the
religion of an ignorant populace."

A few more modern instances of female fortitude are given in a note.[31]

[Note 31: On the 28th of March, 1757, Damiens, who stabbed Lewis XV. was executed in the Place
de Grêve, four horses were to pull his arms and legs from his body: they were fifty minutes
pulling in vain, and at last his joints were obliged to be cut: he supported these torments
patiently, and expired whilst the tendons of his shoulders were cutting, though he was living
after his legs and thighs had been torn from his body; his right hand had previously been cut
off. I was in Paris in 1768, and then, and at various times since have been assured by eye-witnesses,
that almost all the windows of the square where the execution was performed were hired by ladies,
at from two to ten louis each.

Mr. Thicknesse in his "Year's journey through France and Part of Spain," in a letter dated
Dijon, in Burgundy, 1776, mentions a man whom he saw broke alive on the wheel by, "the executioner
and his mother, who assisted at this horrid business, these both seemed to enjoy the deadly
office."

I have formerly given an account of the Spanish ladies enjoying the barbarities of the bull-fights.]

MISCELLANIES. NUMBER OF SLAIN.

ON that same Saturday morning the dead Swiss, the broken furniture of the palace, and the burning
woodwork of the barracks, were all gathered together in a vast heap, and set fire to. I saw
this pile at twenty or thirty yards distance, and I was told that some of the women who were
spectators took out an arm or a leg that was broiling, to taste: this I did not see, but I
see no reason for not believing it.

On the afternoon of this day, the coffee-houses were, as usual, filled with idle people, who
amused themselves with playing at the baby-game of domino.

No coaches except fiacres (hackney-coaches) were now to be seen about the streets; the theatres
continued on the following mornings to advertise their performances, and in the afternoon fresh
advertisements were pasted over these, saying, there would be relâche au theatre (respite,
intermission.) A few days after, some of the theatres advertised to perform for the benefit
of the families of the slain, but few persons attended the representation, through fear; because
the sans-culottes talked of pulling down all the theatres, which, they said, gataient les moeurs,
(corrupted the morals) of the people.

Ever since the 10th, I knew the barriers had been guarded, to prevent any person from leaving
Paris, but I now was informed that that had been the case, three days previous to that day,
which may seem to imply that some apprehensions were formed, that violent measures would take
place somewhere.

About this time the officers were obliged by the sans-culottes to wear worsted instead of gold
or silver shoulder-knots; and no more cloudy carriages were to be seen in the streets.

Portraits of the king, with the body of a hog, and of the queen, with that of a tygress were
engraven and publicly sold. A book was published, entitled, Crimes of Louis XVI. the author
of which advertised that he was then printing a book of the Crimes of the Popes, after which
he intended to publish the crimes of all the potentates in Europe.

As I could not get out of Paris, to make any little excursions to nursery and other gardens,
to Vincennes, to Montreuil, and as the inhabitants of Paris were too much alarmed to retain
any relish for society, (public places out of the question,) I was desirous of getting away
as soon as possible, and applied first to the usual officers for a pass, which was refused.
That of Lord Gower (the ambassador) was at this time of no use, but it became so afterwards,
as shall be mentioned.

On the Monday (13th August) I wrote a letter of about ten lines to the President of the National
Assembly, soliciting a pass. This I carried myself, and sent it in by one of the clerks. The
President immediately read the letter, and the Assembly decreed a pass for me; but the next
day, when I applied for it to the comité de surveillance, (committee of inspection) it, or
they, knew nothing of the matter. I then went to the mairie (mayoralty house) but in vain.

Here an officer of the national guard who had been present during the whole of the battle of
the 10th, said to me, "La journeé a eté un peu forte, nous avons eu plus de quinze cens des
notres de tués," (the day was rather warm; we have had more than fifteen hundred of our own
people killed.) This was confirmed by many more of the officers there, with whom I had a quarter
of an hour's conversation, and they all estimated the number of the slain at above six thousand,
which may probably be accounted for in the following manner, but a demonstration is impossible.

Some assert that there were eight hundred Swiss soldiers in the château of the Tuileries; others
but five hundred: let us take the medium of six hundred and fifty. They had, as every one allows,
six and thirty charges each, and they fired till their ammunition was expended. This makes
above three and twenty thousand shot, every one of which must have taken place, on a mob as
thick as hailstones after a shower: but allowing for the Swiss themselves, who were killed
during the engagement, which diminishes the number of shot, and then allowing likewise, that
of two thousand persons who were in the palace, we here say nothing of the remaining thirteen
or fourteen hundred, most of whom were firing as well as they could, perhaps it may not appear
exaggerated to say, that out of above twenty thousand shot, four thousand must have taken place
mortally; and this includes the fifteen hundred of the national guard, which were certainly
known to be missing. Of the other two thousand five hundred slain, the number could not so
correctly be ascertained, as they consisted of citizens without regimentals or uniform, and
of sans-culottes, none of whom were registered. All the persons in the palace were killed;
of these, few, if any, were taken away immediately, whereas when any of the adverse party were
killed, there were people enough who were glad of the opportunity of escaping from this slaughter,
by carrying away the corpse. We must then reflect on the number of waggons and carts employed
all night in the same offices, and then we shall see great reason to double the number of the
slain, as has been done in various publications.

No idea of this number could be formed by seeing the field of battle, because several bodies
were there lying in heaps, and of the others not above two or three could be seen at a time,
as the streets were after the engagement filled with spectators, who walked among and over
the carcases.

Of the feelings of these spectators, I judge by my own: I might perhaps have disliked seeing
a single dead body, but the great number immediately reconciled me to the sight.

BREECHES. PIKES. NECESSARY PASSPORTS.

ANOTHER particular relative to the sans-culottes is their standard, being an old pair of breeches,
which they carry on the top of a pike, thrust through the waistband: the poissardes likewise
use the same standard, though it so happened that I never saw it. On the memorable 20th of
June last, a pike-man got on the top of the Tuileries, where he waved the ensign, or rather
shook the breeches to the populace.

The pike-staves for the army are of different lengths; of six, nine, and twelve feet: by this
means three ranks of pike-bearers can use their arms at once, with the points of the three
rows of pikes evenly extended.

The letter which I had written to the President, notwithstanding its eventual ill success,
caused several English persons jointly to write a somewhat similar letter; in which, after
having represented that their wives and children wanted them, they said, they hoped their reasons
would appear vrai-semblables, or have the semblance of truth. The Assembly on hearing this
burst into a laugh, and passed on to the order of the day.

On the 16th I carried a passport from Lord Gower to the office of Mr. le Brun, the minister
for foreign affairs; here I was told to leave it, and I should have another in its stead the
next day. The next day I applied for it, and was told, no passports could be delivered.

The matter now appeared to me to become serious, as the courier who had carried the account
of the affair of the 10th to London was not yet returned, and that rumours were spread, that
the English in Paris were almost all grands seigneurs & aristocrates; so that I saw only two
probable means of safety; one of which was, to draw up a petition to the National Assembly,
in behalf of all the British subjects, to get it signed by as many as I could find, and who
might chuse to sign it, and to carry it to the Assembly in a small body, which might have been
the means of procuring a pass; and in case this was refused, the other plan would have been
for all the British to have incorporated themselves into a Legion Britannique, and offered
their services according to the exigence of the case.[32] This petition was accordingly, on
the 18th, drawn up by a member of the English Parliament; translated into French, and carried
about to be signed; when at the bankers we fortunately met with a person who informed us, that
our passes were ready at the moment, at Mr. Le Brun's: thither we went; I obtained my pass
at two o'clock afternoon, the petition was torn and given to the winds; I took a hackney coach
that instant, to carry me to the Poste aux chevaux, ordered the horses, and before three I
was out of the barriers of Paris.

[Note 32: Before, and on the 10th of August, there were not above thirty British travellers
in Paris, but after that day, in less than a week it was supposed that above two thousand had
from all parts of the kingdom resorted to the capital, in order to obtain passports to get away.]

Here follows a copy of my passport.

At the top of the paper is an engraving of a shield, on which is inscribed Vivre libre ou mourir
(live free or die,) supported by two female figures, the dexter representing Minerva standing,
with the cap of liberty at the end of a pike; the sinister, the French constitution personified
as a woman sitting on a lion, with one hand holding a book, on which is written Constitution
Française, droits de l'homme, and with the other supporting a crown over the shield, which
crown is effaced by a dash with a pen.

Then follows:

La nation, la loi, le roi; this is also obliterated with a pen, and instead is written:

Liberté, Egalité Au nom de la nation.

À tous officiers, civils et militaires, chargés de surveiller et de maintenir l'ordre public
dans les differents departemens du Royaume, et à tous autres qu'il appartiendra il est ordonné
de laisser librement passer T---- anglais retournant en angleterre, porteur d'un certificat
de son ambassadeur.[33] Sans donner ni souffrir qu'il lui soit donné aucun empéchement, le
present passe-port valable pour quinze jours seulement.

Donné à Paris le 16 aoust l'an 4 de la liberté

Vû à la Mairie le 17 aoust 1792.

L'an 4e de la liberté.

Petion.

[Note 33: What is here in italics is in manuscript in the original. There is no Monsieur nor
Madame, the word anglais showing the gender of the person to whom the pass was granted, and
is sufficient for the purpose.]

Here is an impression, in red wax, of the arms of Paris, which are gules, a three-mast ship
in full sail, a chief azur, semé with fleurs de lis, or, the shield environed with oak branches
and the cap of liberty as a crest. The inscription underneath is Mairie de Paris, 1789. On
one side of this seal is an escutcheon with the arms of France, crowned, and over the crown
there is a dash with a pen. And underneath,

Gratis. Le ministre des affaires etrangeres.

Vu passer Abbeville en Le Brun. Conseil permanent le 20 Aoust 1792.

Signed by a municipal officer.

And on the back of the passport,

Vû au comité de la section poissonniere ce 18 aoust 1792.

Signed by two commissaries at the barriers of St. Denis, at Paris.

Permis d'embarquer à Calais le 22 aoust 1792.

Signed by a Secretary.

MISCELLANIES. DANCING. POULTRY. TAVERNS. WIG.

SOME days before the demolition of the statue of Henri IV. on the Pont-neuf, there was a flag
placed near that statue, on which was painted citoyens la Patrie est en danger; (citizens,
the mother-country is in danger) and it still remained there when I came away.

On the Monday after the Friday, I saw a paper on the walls, among those published by authority,
wherein a person acquainted the public, that on the preceding Saturday, in consequence of some
suspicions which had been entertained of his principles, his house had been visited by above
thirty thousand persons;[34] and that notwithstanding masons and smiths had been employed in
pulling down, breaking open and scrutinizing, the people had found nothing to criminate him,
and he had found nothing missing in consequence of their scrutiny. I had the pleasure of reading
this aloud to an assemblage of elderly ladies, not one of whom could see to read it, as it
was placed out of their focus, or too high, as they said.

[Note 34: Poco más o menos,(a little more or less) as the Spaniards say when they are complimented
with Viva V. S. mil años (may you live a thousand years.)]

Before the 10th I saw several dancing parties of the Poissardes and sans-culottes in the beer-houses,
on the Quai des Ormes and the Quai St. Paul, and have played the favourite and animating air
of ça ira, on the fiddle, to eight couple of dancers; the ceiling of these rooms (which open
into the street) is not above ten feet high, and on this ceiling (which is generally white
washed) are the numbers 1 2 to 8, in black, and the same in red, which mark the places where
the ladies and gentlemen are to stand. When the dance was concluded I requested the ladies
to salute me (m'embrasser) which they did, by gently touching my cheek with their lips. But
a period was put to all these amusements by the occurrences of the 10th; after which day, most
of my time was employed in endeavouring to obtain a passport.

On the Quai des Augustins, at six or seven in the morning, may be seen a market of above a
quarter of a mile long, well stocked with fowls, pigeons, ducks, geese and turkies: these birds
are all termed Volaille. Rabbits are likewise sold in this market. I also saw here a few live
pheasants, red-legged partridges and quails in cages, for sale.

I did not see a louis d'or this time in Paris, it is probable that a new golden coin may be
struck of a different value and name, and without the name of the die-engraver.

There are few, if any, tables d'hôte (ordinaries) in Paris at present, except at the inns.
I have not seen any for many years, because the hour of dining at them is about one o'clock,
and that is customary to be served in those coffee-houses which are kept by restaurateurs and
traiteurs (cooks) after the English manner, at small tables, and there are bills of fare, with
the prices of the articles marked. The most celebrated of these houses is called la Taverne
de Londres, in the garden of the Palais-Royal: here are large public rooms, and also many small
ones, and a bill of fare printed on a folio sheet, containing almost every sort of provision,
(carp, eels, and pickled salmon are the only fish I have seen there.) An Englishman may here
have his beef-steak, plum-pudding, Cheshire cheese, porter and punch just as in London, and
at about the same price, (half the price as the exchange then was.) Thirty-five sorts of wine
are here enumerated. That of Tokay is at two livres for a small glass, of which a quart-bottle
may contain about fifteen. Rhenish, Mountain, Alicante, Rota, and red Frontignan at 6 livres.
Champagne, Claret, Hermitage, 4 l. 10f. Port 3l. 10f. Burgundy 3l. Porter 2l. 10f. Most of
the dishes are of silver, and I dined at two or three other taverns where all the dishes and
plates were of silver.

The barbers or hair-dressers have generally written on their sign Ici on rajeunit: rajeunir
means properly to colour or die the hair, but in this instance it only expresses, here people
are made to look younger than they are, by having their hair dressed. I saw a peruke-maker's
sign representing the fable of the man and his two wives, thus: A middle-aged gentleman is
fitting in a magnificent apartment, between an old lady and a young one, fashionably dressed.
His head is entirely bald, the old lady having just pulled out the black hairs, as the young
one did the grey: and Cupid is flying over his head, holding a nice periwig ready to put on it.

EXTENT, POPULATION, &C. OF FRANCE.

THE authorities for a great part of what follows are Mr. Rabaut's History of the Revolution,
1792; Mr. du Laure's Paris, 1791, Geographie de France, 1792, second edition, and Voyage dans
les Departemens de la France, 1792.

France is a country which extends nine degrees from North to South, and between ten and eleven
from East to West, making six and twenty thousand square leagues, and containing twenty-seven
millions of people. In 1790, "There were four millions of armed men in France; three of these
millions wore the uniform of the nation." The number of warriors, or fighting men is very considerably
increased since that time.

"In this immense population is found at least three millions of individuals of different religions,
whom the present catholicks look upon with brotherly eyes. The protestant and the catholick
now embrace each other on the threshold where Coligni was murdered; and the disciples of Calvin
invoke the Eternal after their manner, within a few paces[35] of the balcony from whence Charles
IX. shot at his subjects."

[Note 35: The church of St. Louis du Louvre is at present made use of as a place of worship
by protestants.

All the church lands are reverted to the nation.

In a speech which the Abbé Maury made in the National Assembly, about two years ago, he estimated
the value of the property belonging to ecclesiasticks in France at two thousand two hundred
millions of livres, (Deux milliards deux cens millions) near ninety-two millions sterling,
the interest or produce of which, at 3-1/4 per cent. per annum, amounts to the three millions
beforementioned.

France suffices to itself; it contains all the indigenous productions of Europe.

The French hope, that the number of foreigners who will resort to their country, after it shall
be more settled, will abundantly compensate the loss of the emigrants.]

The capital, when compared to London, for extent is as 264 to 195, (nearly as 7 to 5) that
is to say, according to the calculation beforementioned (p. 28) Paris stands on 6-99/121 square
miles of ground, and London on 5-35/968.

It contains a million and 130 thousand inhabitants, which is fifty thousand more than it did
two years ago; these formerly inhabited Versailles, and left it at the time the court did.

Lyon contains 160 thousand persons.

Marseille, the most populous, in proportion to the size, of any city in Europe, contains, in
a spot of little more than three miles in circumference, 120 thousand persons, which includes
about 30,000 mariners on board of the ships in the harbour.[36]

[Note 36: I was there in 1768, and again in 1783 and 1784, above four months. People of all
nations are there seen in their proper habits; all languages are spoken; it is a free port,
and the staple of the Levant trade, as well as of the West-Indian commerce.--There are regular
vessels which sail monthly to Constantinople.]

Bordeaux, 100,000. The population of many more cities is given in a note,[37] besides which
there are others, the number of whose inhabitants I cannot learn, such as Toulouse, Toulon,
Brest, Orange, Blois, Avignon, &c.

[Note 37: Thousand must be read after all the following figures.

Dunkerque   - 80|Besançon - -  26|La Rochelle - 16 Rouen -  -  - 73|Aix- - - - -  25|Poitiers
-  - 16 Lille -  -  - 65|Bourges- - -  25|Auxerre  -  - 16 Nantes-  -  - 60|Tours  - - -  22|Perpignan-
- 16 Nismes-  -  - 50|Arras  - - -  22|Chalons  -  - 15 Strasbourg- - 46|Limoges- - -  22|Beauvais
-  - 15 Amiens-  -  - 44|Abbeville- -  20|Riom  -  -  - 15 Metz  -  -  - 40|Verdun - - -  20|Nevers-
-  - 14 Caen  -  -  - 40|Arles- - - -  20|Boulogne -  - 12 Orleans  -  - 40|Dijon- - - -  20|Bayonne
-  - 12 Rennes-  -  - 35|Valenciennes  20|Soissons -  - 12 Nancy -  -  - 34|St. Malo - -  18|Angoulême-
- 11 Montpellier - 32|Beziers- - -  18|Pau-  -  -  - 11 Reims -  -  - 30|Sedan- - - -  18|Alby
-  -  - 10 Clermont -  - 30|Carcassonne-  18|Alais -  -  - 10 Troyes-  -  - 30|Havre de Grace18|Grasse-
-  - 10 Grenoble -  - 30|Moulins- - -  17|Versailles  - 10]

The nation gains five millions sterling per annum by the reduction of its expences, and by
not having any unnecessary clergymen to maintain,[38] and the forfeited estates of the emigrants
are estimated at immense sums.[39]

[Note 38: By a decree in November, 1789, no curate is to have less salary than fifty Louis
per annum, not including his house and garden. Many of the French at present think that clergymen
should be retained like physicians, and paid by those only who want them. By this means, they
say, religious quarrels would be avoided; of all quarrels the most absurd, because nobody can
understand any thing about the matter. "Personne n'y entend rien."]

[Note 39: The civil list mentioned in page 62, was according to the old establishment. In January,
1790, the king was requested to fix a sum for the civil list himself, and in June following
he sent a letter to the National Assembly, demanding five and twenty millions of livres. It
was decreed that instant.]

The heavy taxes on salt (la gabelle) and on Tobacco are suppressed, and those two articles
are allowed to be objects of commerce.[40]

[Note 40: Salt, which was formerly sold at fourteen sols per pound, is now at a single sol.
Tobacco is permitted to be cultivated by "whoever will."]

"No city in the world can offer such a spectacle as that of Paris, agitated by some great passion,
because in no other the communication is so speedy, and the spirits so active. Paris contains
citizens from all the provinces, and these various characters blended together compose the
national character, which is distinguished by a wonderful impetuosity. Whatever they will do
is done." Witness the taking of the Bastille in a single day, which had formerly withstood
the siege of a whole army during three and twenty days. And witness the 10th of August.

I have been frequently told by persons in England, that a regular and disciplined army may
easily crush a herd of raw and inexperienced rabble, such as they supposed the French were,
although ten times more numerous. This may possibly be the event in small numbers, but if we
state the case with large numbers, for instance fifty thousand men of the greatest courage,
and of the most perfect discipline, and who are fighting for pay, without any personal motive,
against five hundred thousand men, whom we shall suppose utterly ignorant of the art of war,
but who conceive they are fighting for their liberty and their country, for their families
and their property, and then reflect on the courage and bravery of these very men, on their
impetuosity, their acharnement, or desperate violence in fight, which may be compared to the
irresistible force of water-spouts, and of whirlwinds, it may not appear too partial to conjecture,
that such persons may perceive some little reason for suspending, if not for altering, their
opinion,[41] and may now estimate the degree of danger this nation may apprehend from the attacks
of extraneous powers, provided its own people are unanimous.

