Notwithstanding the precautions taken to prevent Don Baltasar from leaving Pampeluna, precautions
which, as the reader already knows, proved fruitless, Herrera, finding after a lapse of twenty-four
hours that no tidings were obtained of the fugitive, resolved not to trust to the chance of
his recapture, but at once to execute the plan he had formed when first he became aware of
Rita's state of durance. This plan, it will be remembered, was to penetrate clandestinely and
with a small force into the enemy's country, to surprise the convent and rescue his mistress.
Impracticable when first devised at Artajona, the difficulties besetting the scheme, although
diminished by the comparative proximity of Pampeluna to Rita's prison, still appeared almost
insuperable. Could the expedition have commenced and terminated between sunset and sunrise,
a party of active guerillas, well acquainted with the country and accustomed to such enterprises,
might have accomplished it without incurring more than a moderate amount of danger; but, at
that season of the year especially, a great part of the march would have to be made in broad
daylight, through a district whose population was exclusively Carlist, and which was occupied
by detachments and garrisons of the Pretender's troops. Indeed the risk was so great and manifest,
and the chances of success apparently so slender, that Cordova, when applied to by Herrera,
at first positively refused to allow him to go on so mad an expedition. He at last yielded
to the young man's reiterated entreaties, and even permitted Torres to accompany his friend,
but refused to give them any troops of the line, saying, however, that the Mochuelo might go,
if willing. That he was so, the reader, after the glimpse that has been given of the guerilla's
daring character and impatience of inaction, will have small difficulty in conjecturing. He
acknowledged that the proposed expedition was most difficult and dangerous; but confident in
his own resources, and in the men under his command, he by no means despaired of its being
successful. He should have liked, he said, to postpone it for two or three days, in order to
send out spies and ascertain the exact position of the Carlist troops; but on learning from
Herrera how urgent it was to lose no time, and how fatal might be the delay of even a single
day, he made no further difficulties, but agreed to start at once.

Although in the month of July, the night was overcast and dark when the little band who undertook
this perilous service left the town of Pampeluna, and, passing through the outer fortifications,
struck into the open country. It consisted of four horsemen and two to three hundred foot soldiers,
the latter almost without exception young men between twenty and thirty years of age, scarcely
one of whom but might have been cited as an example of the highest perfection of hardiness
and activity to which the human frame can be brought by constant exposure to climate, by habit
of exertion and endurance of fatigue. Long-limbed, muscular and wiry, lightly clad in costumes
remarkable for their picturesque and fantastical variety; unencumbered by knapsacks, or by
any baggage save a linen bag slung across the back, and containing rations for two days; their
long muskets over their shoulders; belts, full of cartridges and supporting bayonets, strapped
tightly round their waists, they strode over hill and dale at a pace which kept the officers'
horses at an amble. Fine studies were these for a painter desirous of depicting banditti or
guerillas. Their marked features and sunburnt cheeks were shaded by broad flat caps, from beneath
which shining ringlets of black hair hung down to their bare bronzed necks. Contempt of danger
and reckless daring were legibly written on every one of their countenances, accompanied, it
is true, in some instances, by the expression of less laudable qualities. In the plain and
in a regular action, they might have been no match for more highly disciplined troops; but
it was evident that as light infantry, and for mountain warfare, their qualifications were
unsurpassed, if not unequalled, by any troops of any country.

Whilst a few of the guerillas acted as scouts, and, scattering themselves over the fields on
either side of the road which their comrades followed, kept a sharp look-out for lurking foes
and ambushed danger, the remainder moved onwards in compact order and profound silence. In
front came Herrera and Torres, the former thoughtful and anxious, the latter sanguine and insouciant
as usual, ambling along as contentedly as if he were riding to a rendezvous with his mistress,
instead of on an expedition whence his return was, to say the least, doubtful. Velasquez accompanied
them, the bridle hooked on to his iron substitute for a hand, and guiding his horse rather
by leg than rein. At starting, the Mochuelo, who had had little time to mature a plan of operations,
appeared grave and pre-occupied. For a while he rode in rear of his men, talking in low tones
with Paco the muleteer, who accompanied the party, and with an old grim-visaged Frenchman,
a sergeant in his corps, who, on account of his having but one eye, went by the name of El
Tuerto. The result of his conversation with these two men seemed satisfactory to him, and,
on taking his place at the head of the column, he told Herrera that he had good hopes of success.
Silence, however, was the order of the night, and he entered into no details. Paco and the
Tuerto kept near him, apparently as guides. The former had testified no slight surprise on
recognising his antagonist in the ball-court, and the skirmish, in the new character of a commissioned
officer; but respect for the epaulet, and a few friendly words addressed to him by Velasquez,
dissipated his angry feelings, if such indeed he still harboured, and he marched peaceably
along beside the stirrup of his former opponent.

Steadily and silently the little party continued its march, winding like some dark and many-jointed
snake over the inequalities of the ground, now disappearing in the hollow of a ravine, then
toiling its way up rugged mountain sides. The road had long been abandoned, and only here and
there the adventurous troop were able to avail themselves of a cart track or country lane,
whose deep ruts, however, rendered it but little preferable to the fields and waste land over
which they at other times proceeded. After leaving the immediate vicinity of Pampeluna, and
during several hours' march, but few words were exchanged between any of the party, and those
few were uttered in a cautious whisper. Although the pace was a killing one, no man had flagged
or straggled; when at last, after completing a tortuous and rugged descent, the Mochuelo commanded
a halt. The place where this occurred was in a narrow gorge between two lines of hills, or
it should rather be said of mountains; for although their altitude was only here and there
very considerable, their cragged and precipitous conformation and rocky material entitled them
to the latter denomination. The passage between them continued narrow only for a few hundred
yards, after which, at either of its extremities, the mountains receded, and the valley opened
into plains of some extent. To the right of the defile was a considerable tract of undulating
and wooded country; the level on the left extended to a less distance, before the hills, closing
in again, restricted it within narrow limits.

