No. 213.]
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 26. Nimmo               510
    Handbook to the Library of the British Museum, by
      Bolton Corney                                      511

    FOLK LORE:--Derbyshire Folk Lore--Weather Superstitions
      --Weather Rhymes, &c.--Folk Lore in
      Cambridgeshire                                     512
    Rapping no Novelty, by D. Jardine                    512

    MINOR NOTES:--Bond a Poet--The late Harvest
      --Misquotation--Epitaph in Ireland--Reynolds
      (Sir Joshua's) Baptism--Tradescant                 513

  QUERIES:--

    Grammar in relation to Logic, by C. Mansfield Ingleby      514
    The Coronet [Crown] of Llewelyn ap Griffith, Prince
      of Wales                                           514

    MINOR QUERIES:--Monumental Brass at Wanlip,
      co. Leicester, and Sepulchral Inscriptions in English
      --Influence of Politics on Fashion--Rev. W. Rondall
      --Henry, third Earl of Northumberland--"When we
      survey," &c.--Turnbull's Continuation of Robertson
      --An Heraldic Query--Osborn filius Herfasti--
      Jews in China--Derivation of "Mammet"--Non-recurring
      Diseases--Warville--Dr. Doddridge--
      Pelasgi--Huc's Travels--The Mousehunt--Lockwood,
      the Court Jester--Right of redeeming Property      515

    MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--Dictionary of Zingari
      --Sir Robert Coke--Regium Donum--Who
      was the Author of "Jerningham" and "Doveton?"
      --Alma Mater                                       517

  REPLIES:--

    Alexander Clark                                      517
    Amcotts Pedigree, by W. S. Hesleden                  518
    Sir Ralph Winwood, by the Rev. W. Sneyd              519
    Trench on Proverbs, by the Rev. M. Margollouth, &c.       519
    On Palindromes, by Charles Reed, &c.                 520

    REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--The Claymore--
      Temple Lands in Scotland--Lewis and Sewell
      Families--Pharaoh's Ring--"Could we with ink,"
      &c.--"Populus vult decipi"--Red Hair--"Land
      of Green Ginger"--"I put a spoke in his wheel"
      --Pagoda--Passage in Virgil--To speak in Lute-string
      --Dog Latin--Longevity--Definition of a
      Proverb--Ireland a bastinadoed Elephant--Ennui
      --Belle Sauvage--History of York--Encore--
      "Hauling over the Coals"--The Words "Cash"
      and "Mob"--Ampers and--The Keate Family, of
      the Hoo, Herts--Hour-glasses--Marriage of Cousins
      --Waugh, Bishop of Carlisle--Marriage Service--
      Hoby, Family of--Cambridge Graduates--"I own
      I like not," &c.--"Topsy Turvy"--"When the
      Maggot bites," &c.                                 520

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

    Notes on Books, &c.                                  527
    Books and Odd Volumes wanted                         528
    Notices to Correspondents                            528
    Advertisements                                       528

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

THE STATE PRISON IN THE TOWER.

A paragraph has lately gone the round of the newspapers, in which, after mentioning the alterations
recently made in the Beauchamp Tower and the opening of its "written walls" to public inspection,
it is stated that this Tower was formerly the place of confinement for state prisoners, and
that "Sir William Wallace and Queen Anne Boleyn" were amongst its inmates.

Now, I believe there is no historical authority for saying that "the Scottish hero" was ever
confined in the Tower of London; and it seems certain that the unfortunate queen was a prisoner
in the royal apartments, which were in a different part of the fortress. But so many illustrious
persons are known to have been confined in the Beauchamp Tower, and its walls preserve so many
curious inscriptions--the undoubted autographs of many of its unfortunate tenants--that it
must always possess great interest.

Speaking from memory, I cannot say whether the building known as the Beauchamp (or Wakefield)
Tower was even in existence in the time of Edward I.; but my impression is, that its architecture
is not of so early a time. It is, I believe, supposed to derive its name from the confinement
in it of Thomas de Beauchamp, Earl of Warwick, in 1397. Of course it was not the only place
of durance of state prisoners, but it was the prison of most of the victims of Tudor cruelty
who were confined in the Tower of London; and the walls of the principal chamber which is on
the first storey, and was, until lately, used as a mess-room for the officers, are covered
in some parts with those curious inscriptions by prisoners which were first described in a
paper read before the Society of Antiquaries in 1796, by the Rev. J. Brand, and published in
the thirteenth volume of The Archæologia.

Mr. P. Cunningham, in his excellent Handbook, says:

    "William Wallace was lodged as a prisoner on his first arrival in
    London in the house of William de Leyre, a citizen, in the parish of
    All Hallows Staining, at the end of Fenchurch Street."

{510}

Mr. Cunningham, in his notice of the Tower, mentions Wallace first among the eminent persons
who have been confined there. The popular accounts of the Tower do the like. It was about the
Feast of the Assumption (Aug. 15) that Wallace was taken and conducted to London; and it seems
clear that he was forthwith imprisoned in the citizen's house:

    "He was lodged," says Stow, "in the house of William Delect, a citizen
    of London, in Fenchurch Street. On the morrow, being the eve of St.
    Bartholomew (23rd Aug.), he was brought on horseback to Westminster ...
    the mayor, sheriffs, and aldermen of London accompanying him; and in
    the Great Hall at Westminster ... being impeached," &c.

The authorities cited are, Adam Merimuth and Thomas de La More. His arraignment and condemnation
on the Vigil of St. Bartholomew are also mentioned by Matthew Westminster, p. 451. Neither
these historians, or Stow or Holinshed, afford any farther information. The latter chronicler
says that Wallace was "condemned, and thereupon hanged" (Chron., fol., 1586, vol. ii. p. 313.).
He was executed at Smithfield; and it is not improbable that, if, after his condemnation, he
was taken to any place of safe custody, he was lodged in Newgate. The following entry of the
expenses of the sheriffs attending his execution is on the Chancellor's Roll of 33 Edw. I.
in the British Museum:

    "Et in expen[=s] [=t] misis [=f]cis [crossed p] eos[=d] Vice^{tes}
    [crossed p] Willo le Walleys Scoto lat^one predone puplico utlagato
    inimico et rebellione [Rx] qui in contemptu [Rx] [crossed p] Scociam se
    Regem Scocie falso fec[=a]t n[=o]iare [=t] [=t] ministros [Rx] in
    [crossed p]t[=i]bus Scocie in[=t]fecit at[crossed q] dux^t excercit[=u]
    hostili[=t] contr^a Reg[=e] [crossed p] judici[=u] Cu[=r] [Rx] apud
    West[=m] dist^ahendo suspendendo decollando e[=j] viscera concremando
    ac e[=j] corpus q^arterando cu[=j] cor[crossed p]is quar[=t]ia ad iiij
    majores villas Scocie t^asmittebantur hoc anno.... £xj s. xd."

The day of the trial, August 23, is generally given the date of his execution. It therefore
appears that the formidable Scot never was a prisoner in the Tower.

The unfortunate Queen Anne Boleyn occupied the royal apartments while she was a prisoner in
the Tower. From Speed's narrative, it appears that she continued to occupy them after she was
condemned to death. On May 15 (1536) she was (says Stow)

    "Arraigned in the Tower on a scaffold made for the purpose in the
    King's Hall; and after her condemnation, she was conveyed to ward
    again, the Lady Kingston, and the Lady Boloigne her aunt, attending on
    her."

On May 19, the unfortunate queen was led forth to "the green by the White Tower" and beheaded.

In the record of her trial before the Duke of Norfolk, Lord High Steward (see Report of Deputy
Keeper of Public Records), she is ordered to be taken back to "the king's prison within the
Tower;" but these are words of form. The oral tradition cannot in this case be relied upon,
for it pointed out the Martin Tower as the place of her imprisonment because, as I believe,
her name was found rudely inscribed upon the wall. The Beauchamp Tower seems to have been named
only because it was the ordinary state prison at the time. The narrative quoted by Speed shows,
however, that the place of her imprisonment was the queen's lodging, where the fading honours
of royalty still surrounded Anne Boleyn.

WILLIAM SIDNEY GIBSON.

Newcastle-upon-Tyne.

       *       *       *       *       *

INEDITED LETTER FROM HENRY VIII. OF ENGLAND TO JAMES V. OF SCOTLAND.

I lately transcribed several very interesting original manuscripts, chiefly of the seventeenth
century, but some of an earlier date, and now send you a literal specimen of one evidently
belonging to the sixteenth century; although, notwithstanding the day of the month is given,
the year is not. If you think it worthy of a place in your very excellent publication, you
are quite at liberty to make use of it, and I shall be happy to send you some of the others,
if you choose to accept them. They chiefly relate to the period when the Duke of Lauderdale
was commissioner for Scotch affairs at the English Court; and one appears to be a letter addressed
by the members of the Scottish College at Paris to James I. on the death of his mother.

THOS. NIMMO.

    Right excellent right high and mighty prince, our most dereste brother
    and nephew, we recommende us unto you in our most hertee and affectuous
    maner by this berer, your familyar servitor, David Wood. We have not
    only receyved your most loving and kinde let^s declaring how moch ye
    tendre and regarde the conservation and mayntennance of good amytie
    betwene us, roted and grounded as well in proximitie of blood as in the
    good offices, actes, and doyngs shewed in our partie, whiche ye to our
    greate comforte afferme and confesse to be daylly more and more in your
    consideration and remembraunce (but also two caste of fair haukes,
    whiche presented in your name and sent by youe we take in most
    thankfull parte), and give youe our most hertie thanks for the same,
    taking greate comforte and consolacion to perceyve and understande by
    your said letters, and the credence comitted to your said familyar
    servitor David Wood, which we have redd and considered (and also send
    unto youe with these our letters answer unto the same) that ye like a
    {511} good and uertuous prince, have somoche to herte and mynde the god
    rule and order uppon the borders (with redresse and reformacion of such
    attemptats as have been comytted and done in the same), not doubting
    but if ye for your partie as we intende for ours (doe effectually
    persiste and contynue in so good and uertuose purpose and intente), not
    only our realmes and subjectts shall lyue quyetly and peasably without
    occasion of breche, but also we their heddes and gouernors shall so
    encrease and augment our syncere love and affec[=o]n as shall be to the
    indissoluble assurammente of good peace and suretie to the inestimable
    benefit, wealth, and comoditie of us our realmes and subjectts
    hereafter.

    Right excellent right high and mightie prynce, our most derest brother
    and nephew, the blessed Trynytie have you in his government.

    Given under our signet at Yorke place besides Westminster, the 7th day
    of December.

      Your lovyng brother and uncle,
          HENRY VIII.

    [This letter, which is not included in the State Papers, "King Henry
    VIII.," published by the Record Commissioners, was probably written on
    the 7th December, 1524-25, as in the fourth volume of that collection
    is a letter from Magnus to Wolsey, in which he says, p. 301.: "Davy
    Wood came hoome about the same tyme, and sithenne his hider comming
    hath doone, and continually dooth myche good, making honourable reaport
    not oonly to the Quenes Grace, but also to all other. He is worthy
    thankes and gramerces." This David Wod, or Wood, was a servant of the
    queen, Margaret of Scotland.]

       *       *       *       *       *

HANDBOOK TO THE LIBRARY OF THE BRITISH MUSEUM.

In the Report of the royal commissioners on the British Museum, printed in 1850, we read--

    "We are of opinion that, with reference to such a measure as the one
    now suggested [giving information to persons at a distance as to the
    existence of works in the library], and to other measures and
    regulations generally affecting the use of the library, it is desirable
    to prepare and publish a compendious Guide to the reading-room, as
    described and suggested by lord Seymour at Q. 9521."

The reference is erroneous. At Q. 9521. there is not a word on the subject! At Q. 9522. we read--

    "(Lord Seymour--to Antonio Panizzi, Esq.) You have heard also some
    witnesses state that it would be a great advantage to those who
    frequent the reading-room if they had put into their hands some short
    printed guide to the reading-room, to tell them what books of reference
    there were, and to tell them how they were to proceed to get books, and
    other information, from the want of which they state they have been at
    a great loss? (Mr. Panizzi.) I do not believe that it is often the
    case that persons are at a loss for want of such a guide, but it might
    be done," etc.

Now, the suggestion of a short printed guide to the reading-room was evidently considered as
of some importance. The principle of SUUM CUIQUE is also of some importance. We observe that
lord Seymour the examiner ascribes the suggestion to some witnesses--but lord Seymour the reporter
claims the credit of it for himself! It is the after-thought of his lordship of which I have
to complain.

If we turn to the evidence, it will appear that Mr. Peter Cunningham suggested a printed "catalogue
of the books in the reading-room," Q. 4800.--I must now speak of myself. When summoned before
the commissioners as a witness, I took with me the printed Directions respecting the reading-room
for the express purpose of pointing out their inconsistency and insufficiency, and of advocating
the preparation of a guide-book.

I cannot repeat my arguments. It would occupy too much space. I can only refer to the questions
6106-6116. The substance is this:--I contended that every person admitted to the reading-room
should be furnished with instructions how to proceed--instructions as to the catalogues which
he should consult--and instructions for asking for the books. On that evidence rests my claim
to the credit of having suggested a Guide to the reading-room. Its validity shall be left to
the decision of those who venerate the motto of Tom Hearne--SUUM CUIQUE.

The trustees of the British Museum seem to have paid no attention to the recommendation of
the royal commissioners. They issue the same Directions as before. After you have obtained
admission to the reading-room, you are furnished with instructions as to the mode of obtaining
it!--but you have no guide to the numerous catalogues.

What Mr. Antonio Panizzi, the keeper of the department of printed books, says might be done,
Mr. Richard Sims, of the department of manuscripts, says shall be done. His Handbook to the
library of the British Museum is a very comprehensive and instructive volume. It is a triumphant
refutation of the opinions of those who, to the vast injury of literature, and serious inconvenience
of men of letters, slight common sense and real utility in favour of visionary schemes and
pedantic elaboration.

There is no want of precedents for a work of this class, either abroad or at home. As to the
public library at Paris--I observe, in my own small collection, an Essai historique sur la
bibliothèque du roi, par M. le Prince; a Histoire du cabinet des médailles, par M. Marion du
Mersan; a Notice des estampes, par M. Duchesne, &c.

For a precedent at home, I shall refer to the Synopsis of the contents of the British Museum.
The first edition of that interesting work, with the {512} valued autograph of G. Shaw, is
now before me. It is dated in 1808. I have also the sixtieth edition, printed in this year.
I cannot expect to see a sixtieth edition of the Handbook, but it deserves to be placed by
the side of the Synopsis, and I venture to predict for it a wide circulation.

BOLTON CORNEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

The opinion that a swarm of bees settling on a dead tree forebodes a death in the family also
prevails in Derbyshire.

In that county also there is an opinion that a dog howling before a house is an indication
that some one is dying within the house; and I remember an instance where, as I heard at the
time, a dog continued howling in a street in front of a house in which a lady was dying.

It is also a prevalent notion that if the sun shines through the apple-trees on Christmas Day,
there will be an abundant crop the following year.

I never heard the croaking of a raven or carrion crow mentioned as an indication of anything,
which is very remarkable, as well on account of its ill-omened sound, as because it was so
much noticed by the Romans.

S. G. C.

Weather Superstitions.--If it rains much during the twelve days after Christmas Day, it will
be a wet year. So say the country people.

"If there is anything in this, 1853 will be a wet year, for it has rained every day of the
twelve." So wrote I under date January 9.

No one, I think, will deny that for once the shaft has hit the mark.

R. C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.

Weather Rhymes, &c.--The following are very common in Northamptonshire:

 "Rain before seven,
  Fine before eleven."

 "Fine on Friday, fine on Sunday.
  Wet on Friday, wet on Sunday."

 "The wind blows cold
  On Burton Hold (Wold).
    Can you spell that with four letters?
    I can spell it with two."

Burton Hold, or Wold, is near Burton Latimer.

B. H. C.

Folk Lore in Cambridgeshire (Vol. viii., p. 382.).--The custom referred to by MR. MIDDLETON,
of ringing the church bell early in the morning for the gleaners to repair to the fields, and
again in the evening for their return home, is still kept up not only at Hildersham, but also
in most of the villages in this neighbourhood. I have heard this "gleaners' bell" several times
during this present autumn; the object of course being to give all parties a fair and equal
chance. Upon one occasion, where the villages lie rather close together, I heard four of these
bells sounding their recall from different church towers; and as I was upon an eminence from
whence I could see the different groups wending their way to their respective villages, it
formed one of the most striking pastoral pictures I have ever witnessed, such, perhaps, as
England alone can furnish.

NORRIS DECK.

Cambridge.

       *       *       *       *       *

RAPPING NO NOVELTY.

It may be interesting to the believers in modern miracles to learn that at all events "rapping"
is no new thing. I now send you the account of an incident in the sixteenth century, which
bears a strong resemblance to some of those veracious narrations which have enlightened mankind
in the nineteenth century.

Rushton Hall, near Kettering in Northamptonshire, was long the residence of the ancient and
distinguished family of Treshams. In the reign of Queen Elizabeth, the mansion was occupied
by Sir Thomas Tresham, who was a pedant and a fanatic; but who was an important character in
his time by reason of his great wealth and powerful connexions. There is a lodge at Rushton,
situate about half a mile from the old hall, now in ruins; but covered all over, within and
without, with emblems of the Trinity. This lodge is known to have been built by Sir Thomas
Tresham; but his precise motive for selecting this mode of illustrating his favourite doctrine
was unknown until it appeared from a letter written by himself about the year 1584, and discovered
in a bundle of books and papers inclosed, since 1605, in a wall in the old mansion, and brought
to light about twenty years ago. The following relation of a "rapping" or "knocking" is extracted
from this letter:

    "If it be demanded why I labour so much in the Trinity and Passion of
    Christ to depaint in this chamber, this is the principal instance
    thereof; That at my last being hither committed[1], and I usually
    having my servants here allowed me, to read nightly an hour to me after
    supper, it fortuned that Fulcis, my then servant, reading in the
    Christian Resolution, in the treatise of Proof that there is a God,
    &c., there was upon a wainscot table at that instant three loud knocks
    {513} (as if it had been with an iron hammer) given; to the great
    amazing of me and my two servants, Fulcis and Nilkton."

D. JARDINE.

[Footnote 1: This refers to his commitments for recusancy, which had been frequent.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Bond a Poet, 1642, O.S.--In the Perfect Diurnall, March 29, 1642, we have the following curious
notice:

    "Upon the meeting of the House of Lords, there was complaint made
    against one Bond, a poet, for making a scandalous letter in the queen's
    name, sent from the Hague to the king at York. The said Bond attended
    upon order, and was examined, and found a delinquent; upon which they
    voted him to stand in the pillory several market days in the new Palace
    (Yard), Westminster, and other places, and committed him to the
    Gatehouse, besides a long imprisonment during the pleasure of the
    house: and they farther ordered that as many of the said letter as
    could be found should be burnt."

His recantation, which he afterwards made, is in the British Museum.

E. G. BALLARD.

The late Harvest.--In connexion with the present late and disastrous harvest, permit me to
contribute a distich current, as an old farmer observed to-day, "when I was a boy:"

 "When we carry wheat o' the fourteenth of October,
  Then every man goeth home sober."

Meaning that the prospect of the "yield" was not good enough to permit the labourers to get
drunk upon it.

R. C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.

Misquotation.--In an article entitled "Popular Ballads of the English Peasantry," a correspondent
of "N. & Q." (Vol. v., p. 603.) quotes as "that spirit-stirring stanza of immortal John," the
lines:

 "Jesus, the name high over all," &c.

These lines were not written by John, but by Charles Wesley. Here is the proof:

1st. A hymn of which the stanza quoted is the first, appears (p. 40.) in the Collection of
Hymns published by John Wesley in 1779; but in the preface he says, "but a small part of these
hymns are of my own composing."

2nd. In his Plain Account of Christian Perfection, he says:

    "In the year 1749, my brother printed two volumes of Hymns and Sacred
    Poems. As I did not see them before they were published, there were
    some things in them which I did not approve of; but I quite approved of
    the main of the hymns on this head."--Works, vol. xi. p. 376., 12mo.
    ed. 1841.

3rd. The lines quoted by your correspondent form the ninth stanza of a hymn of twenty-two stanzas
(which includes the six in John Wesley's Collection), written "after preaching (in a church),"
and published in "Hymns and Sacred Poems. In two volumes. By Charles Wesley, M.A., Student
of Christ Church, Oxford. Bristol: printed and sold by Felix Farley, 1749." A copy is in my
possession. The hymn is No. 194.; and the stanza referred to will be found in vol. i. p. 306.

J. W. THOMAS.

Dewsbury.

Epitaph in Ireland.--The following lines were transcribed by me, and form part of an epitaph
upon a tombstone or mural slab, which many years past was to be found in (if I mistake not)
the churchyard of Old Kilcullen, co. Kildare:

 "Ye wiley youths, as you pass by,
  Look on my grave with weeping eye:
  Waste not your strenth before it blossom,
  For if you do yous will shurdley want it."

J. F. FERGUSON.

Dublin.

Reynolds (Sir Joshua's) Baptism.--I have been favoured by the incumbent of Plympton S. Maurice
with a copy of the following entry in the Register of Baptisms of that parish, together with
the appended note; which, if the fact be not generally known, may be of interest to your correspondent
A. Z. (Vol. viii., p. 102.) as well as to others among the readers of "N. & Q.":

    "1723. Joseph, son of Samuel Reynolds, clerk, baptised July the 30th."

On another page is the following memorandum:

    "In the entry of baptisms for the year 1723, the person by mistake
    named Joseph, son of Samuel Reynolds, clerk, baptized July 30th, was
    Joshua Reynolds, the celebrated painter, who died February 23, 1792."

Samuel Reynolds, the father, was master of Plympton Grammar School from about 1715 to 1745,
in which year he died. During that period his name appears once in the parish book, in the
year 1742, as "minister for the time being" (not incumbent of the parish): the Rev. Geo. Langworthy
having been the incumbent from 1736 to 1745, both inclusive.

Query, Was Sir Joshua by mistake baptized Joseph? or was the mistake made after baptism, in
registering the name?

J. SANSOM.

Oxford.

Tradescant.--The pages of "N. & Q." have elicited and preserved so much towards the history
of John Tradescant and his family, that the accompanying extract from the register of St. Nicholas
Cole Abbey, in the city of London, should have a place in one of its Numbers:

    "1638. Marriages.--John Tradeskant of Lambeth, co. Surrey, and Hester
    Pooks of St. Bride's, London, maiden, married, by licence from Mr.
    Cooke, Oct. 1."

{514}

This lady erected the original monument in Lambeth churchyard upon the death of her husband
in 1662. She died 1678.

G.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

GRAMMAR IN RELATION TO LOGIC.

Dr. Latham (Outlines of Logic, p. 21., 1847, and English Language, p.
510., 2nd edition) defines the conjunction to be a part of speech that
connects propositions, not words. His doctrine is so palpably and
demonstrably false, that I am somewhat at a loss to understand how a man of
his penetration can be so far deceived by a crotchet as to be blind to the
host of examples which point to the direct converse of his doctrine. Let
the learned Doctor try to resolve the sentence, All men are either
two-legged, one-legged, or no-legged, into three constituent propositions.
It cannot be done; either and or are here conjunctions which connect
words and not propositions. In the example, John and James carry a
basket, it is of course quite plain that the logic of the matter is that
John carries one portion of the basket, and James carries the rest. But
to identify these two propositions with the first mentioned, is to confound
grammar with logic. The former deals with the method of expression, the
latter with the method of stating (in thought) and syllogising. To take
another example, Charles and Thomas stole all the apples. The fact
probably was, that Charles' pockets contained some of the apples, and
Thomas' pockets contained all the rest. But the business of grammar in the
above sentence is to regulate the form of the expression, not to reason
upon the matter expressed. A little thought will soon convince any person
accustomed to these subjects that conjunctions always connect words, not
propositions. The only work in which I leave seen Dr. Latham's fundamental
error exposed, is in Boole's Mathematical Analysis of Logic; the learned
author, though he seems unsettled on many matters of logic and metaphysics,
has clearly made up his mind on the point now under discussion. The former belong to pure categoricals, to latter
    to hypotheticals [Query disjunctives]. In singular propositions
    such conversions would seem to be allowable. This animal is either
    rational or irrational, is equivalent to, Either this animal is
    rational, or it is irrational. This peculiarity of singular
    propositions would almost justify our ranking them, though truly
    universals, in a separate class, as Ramus and his followers did."--P.
    59.

This certainly seems unanswerable.

If Dr. Latham is a reader of "N. & Q.," I should be glad if he would give his reasons for adhering
to his original doctrine in the face of such facts as those I have instanced.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CORONET [CROWN] OF LLEWELYN AP GRIFFITH, PRINCE OF WALES.

A notice, transferred to The Times of the 5th instant from a recent number of The Builder,
on the shrine of Edward the Confessor, after mentioning that "to this shrine Edward I. offered
the Scottish regalia and the coronation chair, which is still preserved," adds, "Alphonso,
about 1280, offered it the golden coronet of Llewelyn, Prince of Wales, and other jewels."

Who was Alphonso? And would the contributor of the notice favour the readers of "N. & Q." with
the authority in extenso for the offering of this coronet?

The period assigned for the offering is certainly too early; Llewelyn ap Griffith, "the last
sovereign of one of the most ancient ruling families of Europe" (Hist. of England, by Sir James
Mackintosh, vol. ii. p. 254.), having been slain at Builth, Dec. 11, 1282. Warrington (Hist.
of. Wales, vol. ii. p. 271.), on the authority of Rymer's Foedera, vol. ii. p. 224., says:
"Upon stripping Llewelyn there were found his Privy Seal; a paper that was filled with dark
expressions, and a list of names written in a kind of cypher;" omitting, it will be observed,
any reference to Llewelyn's coronet. That monarch's crown was probably obtained and transmitted
to Edward I. on the capture, June 21, 1283, or shortly after, of his brother David ap Griffith,
Lord of Denbigh, who had assumed the Welsh throne on the demise of Llewelyn; the Princess Catherine,
the daughter and heir of the latter, and de jure sovereign Princess of Wales, being then an
infant. Warrington states (vol. ii. p. 285.) that when David was taken, a relic, highly venerated
by the Princes of Wales, was found upon him, called Crosseneych, supposed to be a part of the
real cross brought by St. Neots into Wales from the Holy Land; and he adds that, besides the
above relic, which was voluntarily delivered up to Edward by a secretary of the late Prince
of Wales, "the crown of the celebrated King Arthur, with many precious jewels, was about this
time presented to Edward," citing as his authorities Annales Waverleienses, p. 238.; Rymer's
Foedera, vol. ii. p. 247.

There are some particulars of these relics in the Archæologia Cambrensis; but neither that
periodical, nor the authorities referred to by Warrington, are at the moment accessible to me.

CAMBRO-BRITON.

Mr. Bloom states, in his Mon. Arch. of Great Britain, p. 210., that--

    "There are, perhaps, no sepulchral inscriptions in that tongue
    (English) prior to the fifteenth century; yet at almost the beginning
    of it, some are to be met with, and they became more common as the
    century drew to a close."

Is there any monumental inscription in English, earlier than the above curious one, known to
any of your correspondents?

WILLIAM KELLY.

Leicester.

Influence of Politics on Fashion.--Can any one of the numerous readers of "N. & Q." explain
the meaning of the following passage of the note of p. 305. of Alison's History of Europe,
7th edition?--

    "A very curious work might be written on the influence of political
    events and ideas on the prevailing fashions both for men and women;
    there is always a certain analogy between them. Witness the
    shepherd-plaid trousers for gentlemen, and coarse shawls and muslins
    worn by ladies in Great Britain during the Reform fervour of 1832-4."

HENRI VAN LAUN.

King William's College, Isle of Man.

Rev. W. Rondall.--Can any of your correspondents give information respecting the Rev. William
Rondall, Vicar of Blackhampton, Devonshire (1548), who translated into English a portion of
the writings of the learned Erasmus?

HISTORICUS.

Henry, third Earl of Northumberland.--The above nobleman fell on the battle field of Towton
(Yorkshire), 29th March, 1461, and was interred in the church of St. Denys, or Dionisius, in
York, where his tomb, denuded of its brass, is still pointed out. Pray does an account exist,
in any of our old historians, as to the removal of the body of the above nobleman from that
dread field of slaughter to his mansion in Walmgate in the above city, and of his interment,
which doubtless was a strictly private one? Again, does any record exist of the latter event
in any book of early registers belonging to the above church? Doubtless many readers of "N.
& Q." will be able to answer these three Queries.

M. AISLABIE DENHAM.

Piersebridge, Darlington.

"When we survey," &c.--Where are the following lines to be found?

 "When we survey yon circling orbs on high,
  Say, do they only grace the spangled sky?
  Have they no influence, no function given
  To execute the awful will of Heaven?
  Is there no sympathy pervading all
  Between the planets and this earthly ball?
  No tactile intercourse from pole to pole,
  Between the ambient and the human soul?
  No link extended through the vast profound,
  Combining all above, below, around?"

ALLEDIUS.

Turnbull's Continuation of Robertson.--Some years ago, a continuation of Robertson's work on
Scottish Peerages was announced by Mr. Turnbull, Advocate of Edinburgh.--I shall be glad to
be informed whether it as published; and by whom or where.

FECIALIS.

An Heraldic Query.--Will any one of your contributors from Lancashire or Cheshire, who may
have access to ancient ordinaries of arms, whether in print or in manuscript, favour me by
saying whether he has ever met with the following coat: Per pale, argent and sable, a fess
embattled, between three falcons counterchanged, belled or? It has been attributed to the family
of Thompson of Lancashire, by Captain Booth of Stockport, and an heraldic writer named Saunders;
but what authority attaches to either I am not aware. Is it mentioned in Corry's Lancashire?

HERALDICUS.

Osborn filius Herfasti.--Were Osborn, son of Herfast, abbot of S. Evroult, and Osborn de Crepon
(filius Herfasti patris Gunnoris comitissæ), brothers? or were there two Herfasts?

J. SANSOM.

Jews in China.--A colony of Jews is known to exist in the centre of China, who worship God
according to the belief of their forefathers; and the aborigines of the northern portion of
Australia exercise the rite of circumcision. Can these colonists and aborigines be traced to
any of the nations of the lost tribes?

HISTORICUS.

Derivation of "Mammet."--The Rev. B. Chenevix Trench, in his book on the Study of Words, 4th
edition, p. 79., gives the derivation of the old English word mammet from "Mammetry or Mahometry,"
and cites, in proof of this, Capulet calling his daughter "a whining mammet." Now Johnson,
{516} in his Dictionary, the folio edition, derives mammet from the word maman, and also from
the word man; and mentions Shakspeare's

    "This is no world to play with mammets, or to tilt with
    lips."--Henry IV. (First Part), Act II. Sc. 3.

As both Dr. Johnson, the Rev. Ch. Trench, and many others, agree that mammet means "puppet,"
why not derive this word from the French marmot, which means a puppet.--Can any of the readers
of the "N. & Q." give me a few examples to strengthen my supposition?

Non-recurring Diseases.--Among the many diseases to which humanity is subject, there are some
which we are all supposed to have once, and but once, in our lifetime. Is this an unquestioned
fact? and if so, has anything like a satisfactory explanation of it been offered?

[Hebrew: P].

Warville.--There being no w in the French language, whence did Brissot de Warville derive the
latter word of his name?

UNEDA.

Philadelphia.

Dr. Doddridge.--A poem entitled "To my Wife's Bosom," and beginning

 "Open, open, lovely breast,
  Let me languish into rest!"

occasionally appears with the name of the Rev. Dr. Doddridge as the author. Is it his?

M. E.

Philadelphia.

Pelasgi.--In an article which appeared some time ago in Hogg's Instructor, Thomas de Quincey,
speaking of the Pelasgi, characterises them as a race sorrowful beyond conception.--What is
known of their history to lead to this inference?

T. D. RIDLEY.

West Hartlepool. Can any of your readers confirm or refute this statement?

C. W. B.

The Mousehunt.--I should feel much obliged to any reader of "N. & Q." who would refer me to
any mention of in print, or give me any information from his own personal experience, respecting
a small animal of the weasel tribe called the mousehunt, an animal apparently but little known;
it is scarcely half the size of the common weasel, and of a pale mouse-colour. It is said to
be well known in Suffolk, whence, however, after some trouble, I have been unsuccessful in
obtaining a specimen; young stoats or weasels having been sent me instead of it. I could not
find a specimen in the British Museum. Some years ago I saw two in Glamorganshire; one escaped
me; the other had been killed by a ferret, but unfortunately I neglected to preserve it. Near
the same spot last year a pair of them began making their nest, but being disturbed by some
workmen employed in clearing out the drain in which they had ensconced themselves, were lost
sight of and escaped.

Mr. Colquhoun, in The Moor and the Loch, ed. 1851, says:

    "The English peasantry assert that there are two kinds of weasel, one
    very small, called a 'cane,' or 'the mousekiller.' This idea, I have no
    doubt, is erroneous, and the 'mousekillers' are only the young ones of
    the year, numbers of these half-grown weasels appearing in summer and
    autumn."

The only description I have met with in print is in Bell's Life of Dec. 7, 1851, where "Scrutator,"
in No. 15. of his Letters "On the Management of Horses, Hounds, &c.," writes:

