She closed her eyes, and her lips moved for a second as though they were murmuring a prayer.
Then, with such an expression of happiness that Denoisel was surprised, she said:

"Ah, I am so glad to see you! Both of us together--you'll see how brave we shall be. And we'll
take them all in finely--poor things!"

LXIII

It was stiflingly hot. Renée's windows were left open all the evening, and the lamp was not
lighted, for fear of attracting the moths, which made her so nervous. They were talking, until
as the daylight gradually faded, their words and thoughts were influenced by the solemnity
of the long hours of dreamy reverie, without light.

They all three soon ceased speaking at all, and remained there mute, breathing in the air and
giving themselves up to the evening calm. M. Mauperin was holding Renée's hand in his, and
every now and then he pressed it fondly.

The gloom was gathering fast, and gradually the whole room grew quite dark. Lying full length
on the sofa, Renée herself disappeared in the indistinct whiteness of her dressing-gown. Presently
nothing at all could be seen, and the room itself seemed all one with the sky.

Renée began to talk then in a low, penetrating voice. She spoke gently and very beautifully;
her words were tender, solemn, and touching, sometimes sounding like the chant of a pure conscience,
and sometimes falling on the hearts around her with angelic consolation.

Her ideas became more and more elevated, excusing and pardoning all things. At times the things
she said fell on the ear as from a voice that was far away from earth, higher than this life,
and gradually a sort of sacred awe born of the solemnity of darkness, silence, night, and death,
fell on the room where M. and Mme. Mauperin, and Denoisel were listening eagerly to all which
seemed to be already fluttering away from the dying girl in this voice.

LXIV

On the wall-paper were bouquets of corn, cornflowers, and poppies, and the ceiling was painted
with clouds, fresh-looking and vapoury. Between the door and window a carved wood praying-chair
with a tapestry cushion looked quite at home in its corner; above it, against the light, was
a holy-water vessel of brass-work, representing St. John baptizing Christ. In the opposite
corner, hanging on the wall with silk cords, was a small bracket with some French books leaning
against each other, and a few English works in cloth bindings. In front of the window, which
was framed with creeping plants joining each other over the top and with the leaves that hung
over bathed in light, was a dressing-table, covered with silk and guipure lace, with a blue
velvet mirror and silver-mounted toilet bottles. The shaped mantel-shelf surmounted with a
carved panel, had its glass framed with the same light shade of velvet as that on the dressing-table.
On each side of the glass were miniatures of Renée's mother, one when quite young and wearing
a string of pearls round her neck, and a daguerrotype representing her much older. Above this
was a portrait of her father in his uniform, painted by herself, the frame of which, leaning
forward, caused the picture to dominate the whole room. On a rosewood dinner-wagon, in front
of the chimney-piece, were one or two knick-knacks, the sick girl's latest fancies--the little
jug and the Saxony bowl that she had wanted. A little farther away, by the second window, all
the souvenirs that Renée had collected in her riding days--her hunting and shooting relics,
riding-canes, a Pyrenees whip, and some stags' feet with a card tied with blue ribbon, telling
the day and place where the animal had been run to cover. Beyond the window was a little writing-desk
which had been her father's at the military school, and on its shelf stood the boxes, baskets,
and presents she had received as New Year's gifts. The bed was entirely draped with muslin.
At the back of it, and as though under the shelter of its curtains, all the prayer-books Renée
had had since her childhood were arranged on an Algerian bracket, from which some chaplets
were hanging. Then came a chest of drawers covered with a hundred little nothings: doll's-house
furniture, some glass ornaments, halfpenny jewellery, trifles won in lotteries, even little
animals made of bread-crumbs cooked in the stove and with matches for legs, a regular museum
of childish things, such as young girls hoard up and treasure as reminiscences. The room was
bright and warm with the noonday sun. Near the bed was a little table arranged as an altar,
covered with a white cloth. Two candles were burning and flickering in the golden daylight.

Through the dead silence, broken only by sobs, could be heard the heavy footsteps of a country
priest going away. Then all was hushed, and the tears which were falling round the dying girl
suddenly stopped as though by a miracle. In a few seconds all signs of disease and the anxious
look of pain had disappeared from Renée's thin face, and in their place an ecstatic beauty,
a look of supreme deliverance had come, at the sight of which her father, her mother, and her
friend instinctively fell on their knees. A rapturous joy and peace had descended upon her.
Her head sank gently back on the pillow as though she were in a dream. Her eyes, which were
wide open and looking upward, seemed to be filled with the infinite, and her expression gradually
took the fixity of eternal things. A holy aspiration seemed to rise from her whole face. All
that remained of life--one last breath, trembled on her silent lips, which were half open and
smiling. Her face had turned white. A silvery pallor lent a dull splendour to her delicate
skin and shapely forehead. It was as though her whole face were looking upon another world
than ours. Death was drawing near her in the form of a great light.

It was the transfiguration of those heart diseases which enshroud dying girls in all the beauty
of their soul and then carry away to Heaven the young faces of their victims.

LXV

People who travel in far countries may have come across, in various cities or among old ruins--one
year in Russia, another perhaps in Egypt--an elderly couple who seem to be always moving about,
neither seeing nor even looking at anything. They are the Mauperins, the poor heart-broken
father and mother, who are now quite alone in the world, Renée's sister having died after the
birth of her first child.

They sold all they possessed and set out to wander round the world. They no longer care for
anything, and go about from one country to another, from one hotel to the next, with no interest
whatever in life. They are like things which have been uprooted and flung to the four winds
of heaven. They wander about like exiles on earth, rushing away from their tombs, but carrying
their dead about with them everywhere, endeavouring to weary out their grief with the fatigue
of railway journeys, dragging all that is left them of life to the very ends of the earth,
in the hope of wearing it out and so finishing with it.

THE PORTRAITS OF EDMOND AND JULES DE GONCOURT

Like Dickens, Théophile Gautier, Mérimée, and some other literary celebrities, the brothers
Goncourt tried their hands at drawing and engraving before devoting themselves to letters.
Sometimes in their hours of leisure they further made essays in water-colour and pastel. Thanks
to Philippe Burty, Jules de Goncourt's "Etchings," collected in a volume, and some of Edmond's
sepia and washed drawings, allow us to glean certain of the earliest of those records in which
the faithful Dioscuri endeavoured to portray each other with a care both affectionate and touching.
A very pretty "Portrait of Jules as a child, in the costume of a Garde Française," a drawing
heightened with pastel, is described by Burty as one of Edmond's best works, but one, unfortunately,
which it was not possible to reproduce. "In the swallow-tail coat of the French Guard," says
Burty, "starting for a fancy dress ball, the brilliance of his eyes heightened by the powder,
his hand on his sword-guard, at the age of ten, plump and spirited as one of Fragonard's Cupids."
Here we have the younger of the Goncourts, delineated with all the subtlety of a delicate mannerism.
Edmond was eighteen at the time. Scarcely free of the ferule of his pedagogues, he already
looked at life with that air of keen astonishment which was never to leave him, and which was
to kindle in his eye the sort of phosphorescent reflection that shone there to his last hour.
It was the elder and more observant of the two who first attempted to represent his young brother,
the one who was to be the greater artist of the pair, as if the compact had already been entered
upon, as if both by tacit consent accepted the prolific life in common, then only at its dawn.
A great delight to the two brothers was their meeting with Gavarni, at the offices of L'Eclair,
a paper founded towards the end of 1851 by the Comte de Villedeuil.

From that first meeting dated the strong friendship between the trio, a friendship that verged
on worship on the side of the Goncourts, and on tenderness on that of Gavarni. Two years later,
on April 15, 1853, in the series called Messieurs du Feuilleton which he began in Paris, the
master draughtsman of the lorette and the prodigal gave a delicious sketch of Edmond and Jules
de Goncourt. In his Masques et Visages, M. Alidor Delzant, a bibliophile very learned in the
iconography of the Goncourts, declares these to be the best and most faithful of all the portraits
of the two brothers. We give a reproduction of this fine lithograph. Seated in a box at the
theatre in profile to the right, an eye-glass in his eye, Jules, apparently intent on the play,
leans forward from beside Edmond, who sits in a meditative attitude, his hands on his knees.
M. Delzant compares these portraits to those of Alfred and Tony Johannot by Jean Gigoux. And
do they not also recall another group of two literary brothers, older, it is true, the delicate
faces of Paul and Alfred de Musset in the delicious frame of the Musée Carnavalet? Gavarni's
drawing is a perfect master-piece of expression and subtlety.

Placed one against the other, like the antique medals on which Castor and Pollux are graved
in profile in the same circle, how admirably each of these gentle faces, in which we note more
than one analogy, completes the other! And as we admire them, are we not tempted to exclaim:
Here indeed are the Frères Zemganno of letters!

The reputation of the two brothers increased proportionately with their works--works of the
most intense and subtle psychological research. Installed in that apartment of the Rue Saint
Georges which they so soon transformed into a veritable museum of prints and trinkets, Edmond
and Jules de Goncourt prepared those brilliant monographs of queens and favourites, which have
made them the rare and enchanting historians of the most licentious and factious of centuries.

In 1857 Edmond made the water-colour drawing of "Jules smoking a Pipe," which was afterward
lithographed. His feet on the edge of the mantel-piece in front of him, Jules, seated in an
arm-chair, a small pipe in his mouth, gives himself up to the delights of the far niente. This
contemplative attitude was a favourite one with him, and one in which he was often discovered
by visitors. By representing him thus, Edmond gave an additional force to the living memory
that all who knew his brother have retained of him.

Three years later (1860) Jules in his turn made a portrait of Edmond, not in the same indolent
attitude, but also in profile, and with a pipe in his mouth. This print is one of the best
in the Burty album. We know of no further mutual representations by the brothers; with the
exception of Jules de Goncourt's etching of Edmond seated across a chair, smoking a cigar,
the design of which we reproduce. But there are several fine portraits by other hands of the
younger brother, the one who was the first to go, perforce abandoning his sublime and suicidal
task.

It was in 1870 that Jules de Goncourt died at the age of thirty-nine. "It was impossible,"
wrote Paul de Saint-Victor in La Liberté, "to know and not to love this young man, with his
child's face, his pleasant, ready laugh, his eyes sparkling with intellect and purpose....
That blond young head was bent over his work for months at a time...." It was the profile of
this "blond young head" that Claudius Popelin traced for the enamel that was set into the binding
of the Nécrologe, in which Edmond preserved all the articles, letters, and tokens of sympathy
called forth by the irreparable loss of his beloved companion and fellow-labourer. This medallion,
etched by Abot, was prefixed afterward to the edition of Jules de Goncourt's Letters, published
by Charpentier. The profile, which is reproduced as the frontispiece to this edition of Renée
Mauperin, is infinitely gentle; the emaciated contours, the extraordinary delicacy of the features,
betray the intellectual dreamer, his mind intent on literary questions, and we understand M.
Émile Zola's dictum: "Art killed him."

Prince Gabrielli and Princesse Mathilde also made certain furtive sketches of Jules which have
since been photographed. Méaulle engraved a portrait of him on wood, and Varin made an etching
of him. Henceforth, save in Bracquemond's double medallion, and in one or two papers in which
studies of him by different hands appeared, Edmond de Goncourt was no longer represented in
company with his gifted brother, but always alone.

On March 15, 1885, the Journal Illustré published two portraits of the Goncourts drawn by Franc
Lamy, and on November 20, 1886, the Cri du Peuple gave two others, in connection with the appearance
of Renée Mauperin at the Odéon. We may also note that the medallion of the two brothers drawn
and engraved by Bracquemond for the title-page of the first edition of L'Art du XVIIIème Siècle
appeared in 1875. A delicate commemorative fancy caused the artist to surround the profile
of Jules with a wreath of laurel.

Utterly crushed at first by the sense of loneliness and desolation his loss had created, Edmond
de Goncourt was long entirely absorbed in memories of the departed. The spiritual presence
of Jules filled the house with its mute and mournful sentiment. The heart-broken survivor could
find consolation and relief for his pain only in friendship. Théophile Gautier, Paul de Saint-Victor,
Jules Vallès, the painter De Nittis, Burty, Flaubert, Renan, Taine, and Théodore de Banville
sustained him with their affection. A band of ardent, active, and audacious young men, among
whom M. Émile Zola was specially distinguished by the research of his formulæ, began to link
him with Flaubert, offering them a common worship. Alphonse Daudet (we have now come to the
year 1879) sketched the most faithful portrait of him to whom a whole generation was soon to
give the respectful title of "the Marshal of Letters": "Edmond de Goncourt looks about fifty.
His hair is gray, a light steel gray; his air is distinguished and genial; he has a tall, straight
figure, and the sharp nose of the sporting dog, like a country gentleman keen for the chase,
and, on his pale and energetic face, a smile of perpetual sadness, a glance that sometimes
kindles, sharp as the graver's needle. What determination in that glance, what pain in that
smile!" Many artists attempted to fix that glance and that smile with pencil or burin, but
how few were successful!

