I want to consecrate my pen for the new year, and cannot do so better than by a greeting to
you, my dear Franz. Above all other wishes is my wish of seeing you and enjoying you to my
heart's content. The worst loss of the past year has been that of the visit you had promised
me. If I were to try to imagine the greatest delight that could be vouchsafed to me, it would
be to see you suddenly in my room. Are you inclined at all for such a stroke of genius? If
I were only free you would experience such a surprise from me, but I must no longer hope for
miracles; everything comes to me in a laborious and gradual way, and, after all, I have to
share it with a host of Zurich professors. You perceive I am not very many-sided. My ideas
move in a somewhat narrow circle, which, fortunately, through the objects it comprises, becomes
as large as the world to me (I do not count the Zurich professors amongst those objects). If
I have a grudge against your eternal and manifold obligations and engagements, you will understand
my very special reason, viz., that they take you away from ME so much. Candidly speaking, my
being together with you is everything to me; it is my fountain, all the rest is but overflow.
When I sit down to write to you I do not know what to say. Nothing occurs to me but what I
cannot write. To speak to you of "business" is altogether an abomination to me, for when I
deal with you my heart grows large, while business narrows it in the most deplorable manner.
It is bad enough when, as formerly was too often the case, I am compelled to trouble you with
my private sorrows. Especially today these must be far from me, for the first stroke of my
pen in the new year is to convey nothing but a pure, sonorous greeting to you. I want to tell
you, however, that yesterday, at last, I finished the first act of "Tristan." I shall work
at "Tristan" assiduously; at the beginning of the next winter season I want to produce it somewhere.

My reading is, at present, confined to Calderon, who will at last induce me to learn a little
Spanish. Heaven forbid that in that case I should remind you of H. Nageli. The necessary cache-nez
I possess. My wife has given me one, together with a splendid carpet with swans on it, a la
Lohengrin. I heard recently of your Dresden life with Gutzkow, Auerbach, etc., etc. Oh, you
tremendous fellow! You can do anything. Perhaps you, too, will appear to me in a Spanish light,
when I shall have a good laugh at you. I have struck up a friendship with the X.'s for the
sole purpose of not being again left out of their invitation when the time comes. But I begin
already to regret having done so, and any amount of enthusiasm cannot make me appreciate this
abominable race of professors. But you will see by my having made the attempt that I wish to
get rid of my roughness, in order to be quite amiable at your next visit. Did I recently write
something stupid to the dear Child? I cannot remember exactly, but God must forgive me all
my sins, just as I forgive Him many things in His world, and where God forgives, the Child
should not be sulky. You ought to be angry least of all, for you must know that I love no one
as I love you, and that it was you who taught me to love. If the Princess is angry with me
I want her to give a good scolding one of these days to Professor M., or Professor V., etc.,
for it is in reality the fault of this type of men if I make any one angry.

I am delighted above everything at your being well again, although I find it difficult to believe
that there are men who can go through what you go through. I am in fairly good health, and
still have to thank Vaillant for it. I wish I could reward him.

Let me hear from you soon, and do not mind my nonsense. Greet the Altenburg with a will, and
tell the dear ladies that they are to hold me in kind remembrance.

The blessings of a world on you, my Franz. Farewell.

Your R. W.

251.

DEAREST FRANZ,

I intend to go to Paris in order to look after my interests there. If it is too far for you,
or if you do not like to come to Paris, we might as well meet at Strassburg, I should like
to consult you about my whole position, in order to have the consent of my only friend to my
new undertakings. For the present you will see, at least, that I am not acting hastily. I wait
for some money coming in. Everything leaves me in the lurch. I have had to send a power of
attorney to Haslinger in Vienna, in order to compel the manager there to pay me some considerable
sums which he owes me, but I cannot with any certainty reckon upon success within a month.
At Berlin they have given "Tannhauser" exactly once during last quarter, and for the first
time I received very little money, while formerly I used to draw considerable sums from there
during the winter. The Hartels, to whom I made some days ago the offer of "Tristan" on certain
conditions, I cannot ask for an advance of money, even in the favourable case of their accepting
my offer, because I should not be able to send them the manuscript before the end of February.
The housekeeping money of my wife is in the last stage of consumption, and she longingly expects
funds from me to meet the new year's bills. In such circumstances, and being absolutely without
resources, I am in the painful position of having to delay my necessary journey, which I could
not undertake, even if I had only the actual travelling money, because I must not leave my
wife without means for ever so short a time. I shall therefore require at least one thousand
francs in order to get away. By Easter at the latest, and perhaps sooner, I shall ask Hartel
for a considerable sum on account of the first act, and promise faithfully to return the money
then. Please consider from whom, and how, you can get the money for me. Send me the money,
and let me know at the same time where you can meet me, at Strassburg or in Paris.

Farewell! Au revoir very soon.

Your

RICHARD.

252.

DEAREST RICHARD,

At Weymar I cannot raise ten thalers just at present, but I have written at once to Vienna,
and in a week's time the sum of a thousand francs, named by you, will be handed to you by my
son- in-law, M. Emile Ollivier (avocat au barreau et depute de la ville de Paris). Call on
him at the end of next week. He lives rue St. Guillaume, No. 29, Faubourg St. Germain.

If it is of use to you to have some conversation with me, I will come to Strassburg for one
day, although I find it difficult to leave Weymar at the present moment.

The Princess has had an excellent idea, of which you will hear more before long. She will write
to you as soon as she has had an answer with regard to it.

God be with you!

F. L.

FRIDAY, January 15th, 1858.

Your telegram, arrived a day before your letter which I received last night. Let me have your
address; poste restante is not safe.

253.

DEAREST FRANZ,

Tired to death and worn out, I write only to tell you that I have arrived at Paris, and that
my address is Grand Hotel du Louvre (No. 364).

In a modest room on the third floor, overlooking the inner courts, I found at last the quiet
position which is necessary to me.

I expect help from you. My difficulty is great. In a few days I shall write more calmly.

Your

R. W.

254.

GRAND HOTEL DU LOUVRE, No. 364, PARIS.

You dear, splendid man! How can I be unhappy, when I have attained the supreme happiness of
possessing such a friend, of participating in such love? Oh, my Franz! could we but live always
together! Or is the song to be right after all: "Es ist bestimmt in Gottes Rath, dass von dem
liebsten was man hat, muss scheiden?"

Farewell; tomorrow I shall write about other things. A thousand greetings!

Your

R. W.

255.

Yet another friend, dearest Franz, has a kind fate vouchsafed to me. I was permitted to feel
the delight of becoming acquainted with such a poet as Calderon in my mature stage of life.
He has accompanied me here and I have just finished reading "Apollo and Klymene," with its
continuation "Phaeton." Has Calderon ever been near to you? I can unfortunately approach him
through a translation only on account of my great want of gift for languages (as for music).
However, Schlegel, Gries, who has translated the more important pieces, Malsburg, and Martin
(in the Brockhaus edition) have done much towards disclosing the spirit and even the indescribable
subtlety of the poet to us. I am almost inclined to place Calderon on a solitary height. Through
him I have discovered the significance of the Spanish character--an unheard of incomparable
blossom, developed with such rapidity, that it soon had to arrive at the destruction of matter,
and the negation of the world. The fine and deeply passionate spirit of the nation finds expression
in the term "honour," which contains all the noblest and at the same time most terrible elements
of a second religion; the most frightful selfishness and the noblest sacrifice simultaneously
find their embodiment in it. The essence of the "world" proper could never have been expressed
more pointedly, more brilliantly, more powerfully and at the same time more destructively,
more terribly. The most striking imaginings of the poet have the conflict between this "honour"
and a profoundly human pity for their subject. This "honour" determines the actions which are
acknowledged and praised by the world, while wounded pity takes refuge in a scarcely expressed,
but all the more deeply moving, sublime melancholy, in which we recognise the essence of the
world to be terror and nothingness. It is the Catholic religion which tries to bridge over
this deep chasm, and nowhere else did it gain such profound significance as here, where the
contrast between the world and pity was developed in a more pregnant, more precise, more plastic
form than in any other nation. It is very significant for that reason that almost all the great
Spanish poets took refuge in priesthood in the second half of their lives. It is a unique phenomenon
that from this refuge, and after conquering life by ideal means, these poets were able to describe
the same life with greater certainty, purity, warmth, and precision than they had been capable
of while they still were in the midst of life. Yea, the most graceful, most humorous creations
were given to the light from that ghostly refuge. By the side of this marvellously significant
phenomenon, all other national literatures appear to me without importance. If nature produced
such an individual as Shakespeare amongst the English, we can easily see that he was unique
of his kind; and the fact that the splendid English nation is still in full blossom, carrying
on the commerce of the world, while the Spanish nation has perished, moves me so deeply, because
it enlightens me as to what is really important in this world.

And now, dear friend, I must tell you that I am very satisfied with myself. This curious and
unexpected fact is particularly useful to me for my stay in Paris. Formerly Paris used to fill
me with fears of boding evil; in one sense it excited my desire, while on the other it repelled
me terribly, so that I continually felt the sufferings of Tantalus. At present only the repulsive
quality remains, while every charm has lost its power. The nature of that repulsiveness I now
fully understand, and it appears to me as if my eyes had always possessed an unconscious faculty
which has at last become conscious to me. On a journey, in carriages, etc., my gaze always
tried involuntarily to read in the eyes of fellow-travellers whether they were capable of,
or destined for salvation, that is, negation of the world. A closer acquaintance with them
often deceived me as to this point; my involuntary wish frequently transferred my divine ideal
to the soul of another person, and the further course of our acquaintance generally led to
an increase of painful disappointment, until, at last, I abandoned and violently cut short
that acquaintance.

FIRST sight is less fallible, and as long as my intercourse with the world is of a passing
kind, my feeling with regard to it is free from any doubt, resembling, as it does, that perfect
consciousness which comes to us on better acquaintance with people, after we have thrown off
prolonged and laboriously sustained illusions. Even the passing sight of individuals, in whose
features I see nothing but the most terrible error of life,--a restless, either active or passive,
desire,--affects me painfully; how much more then must I be terrified and repelled by a mass
of people whose reason for existence appears to be the most shallow volition. These finely
and very clearly cut physiognomies of the French, with their strong feeling for charming and
sensuously attractive things, show me the qualities which I see in other nations in a washed-out,
undeveloped state, with such precision as to make illusion even for a moment impossible. I
feel more distinctly than elsewhere in the world that these things are quite strange to me,
just because they are so precise, so charming, so refined, so infallible in form and expression.
Let me confess to you that I have scarcely been able to look at the marvellous new buildings
erected here; all this is so strange to me that, although I may gaze at it, it leaves no impression
on the mind. As no delusive hope, that might be excited here, has the slightest attraction
for me, I gain by my absolutely unimpassioned position towards these surroundings a calmness
which--let me say it with a certain ironic humour--will probably be of advantage to me in gaining
that for which I strove here in my early days, and which now, as it has become indifferent
to me, I shall probably attain.

What this possible "attainment" may be I can only briefly indicate to you. The object of my
journey has been the securing of the rights of property in my operas, and beyond this I can
look for nothing except what is freely offered to me, and the only person who seems inclined
to make a definite offer is the manager of the "Theatre Lyrique." I saw his theatre; it pleased
me fairly well, and a new acquisition he had made, a tenor, pleased me very much. In case he
is prepared for more than ordinary efforts, as to which of course I must have every security,
I might give him "Rienzi," provided that I succeeded (perhaps through intercession of the Grand
Duke of Baden with the Emperor of the French) in obtaining the exceptional privilege of having
my opera performed at this theatre WITHOUT SPOKEN DIALOGUE.

"Ollivier," whom I did not meet till yesterday, and with whom I am going to dine en garcon
today, received me with such amiable kindness that I imagined I had arrived at "Altenburg."
He made me an unlimited offer of his services with the manager of the Theatre Lyrique, a personal
friend of his, amongst other people. Well, we must see what will come of it; in any case, I
should surrender, without much scruple of conscience, "Rienzi," to gain me an entry, but of
course only on the supposition that considerable pecuniary advantages would accrue to me.

I had got so far when Berlioz called on me. After that I had to go out, and found soon that
I was not well, the cause probably being a cold, which pulls me down more than usually, because
as I remember only now, my food has lately been very bad, I being feeble and very thin in consequence.
I had to make my excuses to Ollivier and stop at home in bed. In consequence of this prudent
measure I feel a little better, and am expecting Ollivier, who will call for me at two to take
me to the concert of the Coservatroire; so I will go on talking to you a little about practical
things.

It was a real shame that I was once more compelled to take money from you, but this time it
is quite certain to be a loan, which I shall repay to you in any circumstances. From the letter
of the Princess, I see that you have to use all manner of stealth to get "Rienzi" accepted
at the Weimar theatre. This grieves me very much, and I am afraid that a serious conflict between
myself and the management will be the result. If this should be the case, the repayment of
the thousand francs would become more difficult, but by no means impossible, and in any case
I count upon returning the money to you by "Easter." As to the employment of what you sent
to me, and for which also I thank you cordially, you must please set the mind of the good Princess
at rest. I am sorry that this also should trouble her.

Apart from you and Calderon, a glance at the first act of "Tristan," which I have brought with
me, has roused me wonderfully. It is a remarkable piece of music. I feel a strong desire to
communicate some of it to some one, and I fear I shall be tempted to play some of it to Berlioz
one of these days, although my beautiful performance will probably terrify and disgust him.
Could I only be with you! That, you know, is the burden of my song.

Something more about business. The Hartels have replied to my offer of "Tristan." It was quite
amusing. Whatever I may do, the Philistine will think more or less impossible; to that I am
accustomed, and must comfort myself with the success achieved so far by my impossible creations.
To sum up, the Hartels accept, in spite of their great doubts, the publication of the work,
with a reduction, however, of my demands. Even so they think they are offering a great sacrifice
to me, but they say that they are prepared to have the full score engraved at once, and I think
that I cannot do better than accept their offer.

I am always loth to write to you about business, and have done so only when I expected you
to help me, which unfortunately was the case often enough. This time, however, I want to give
you a short synopsis of the state of my Paris expedition. At the beginning of the winter a
M. Leopold Amat, Chef or Directeur des Fetes Musicales de Wiesbaden, wrote to me from Paris,
and set forth the results of his voluntary exertions for "Tannhauser" (at Wiesbaden with Tichatschek
and in the French press). He asked me to authorise him to take the necessary steps for the
performance of "Tannhauser" at the Grand Opera. I informed him that my only and indispensable
CONDITION would be that an exact translation of the opera, without omission or alteration,
should be given. Soon afterwards a M. de Charnal, a young litterateur without reputation, applied
to me, asking me for permission to publish a good translation in verse of the poem of "Tannhauser,"
in one of the first Revues de Paris. That permission I granted him, on condition that the publication
in the review should not imply any further copyright. I am now expecting the pianoforte arrangements
of my operas, in order to secure my rights, which will be of importance, whether I want my
operas to be performed or whether I want to prevent their performance. The management of the
Grand Opera has made no move, but M. Carvalho, of the Theatre Lyrique, seems to be lying in
wait for me. In case I should do anything with him, I am determined, as I said before, to leave
"Rienzi" to his tender mercies, first because that work causes no anxiety to my heart, and
may be transmogrified a little for all I care; second, because the subject and the music are
certainly less strange to the Paris public than are my other works. What do you think of it?
To me the whole thing would be purely an affair d'argent, and as such it would no doubt turn
out well.

Here you have plenty of business, but I must add one thing more. I have lately laid your poor
Vienna cousin under contribution. As my manager at Vienna sent me no money, I asked Haslinger,
on the strength of your friendship, to enforce my demands, and as he (being prevented by illness,
as I afterwards heard) did not reply, I hunted up the address of your cousin (from 1856), and
again invoking your sacred name, asked him to prod on Haslinger. That had the desired effect,
and to both I owe it that my manager will probably discharge his debt before long. You see,
it is always "Franz Liszt," even if he knows nothing about it.

Here you have a very long letter from me. Next time the good Child shall have one equally long;
I am deeply in her debt. The practical Princess also shall have a regular professor's letter
from me. For today I send a thousand thanks and greetings to you all from the bottom of my
heart. Be assured of my most faithful veneration.

Long live Altenburg!

Farewell, you dear unique one.

Your

R. W.

HOTEL DU LOUVRE, No. 364.

256.

January 30th, 1858.

You have struck up a regular friendship with Calderon in Paris, dearest Richard; a la bonne
heure, he is one of the right sort in whose society one may forget many blackguards and blackguardisms.
Unfortunately I know him only very superficially, and have not yet succeeded in making him
part of myself. Grillparzer used to tell me wonderful things about him, and if you remain much
longer in this element I shall have to read some of his things after you. Let me know on occasion
which are the pieces I ought to begin with. His two chief elements, CATHOLICISM and HONOUR,
are both dear to my heart. Do you think something musical might be made of this? I once read
the translation by Cardinal Diepenbrock of a wonderful sacred drama, in which heaven, and air,
and earth, with all their powers, are set in motion. I forget the title at this moment, but
shall find out.

Perhaps you may tell me, some day, how to mould and handle this subject-matter for musical
purposes.

I shall have to postpone "Rienzi" till May. We shall invite Tichatschek for it. All that IS
POSSIBLE will be done, but I am annoyed that the result will again be very small. Fischer of
Dresden writes me a very sad letter about the frustration of his hope of producing "Reinzi"
there in the course of the winter. He and Tichatschek and many others are cordially devoted
to you, and we shall certainly not fail to do our duty as far as in us lies.

"Lohengrin" will be given here very shortly; I have already had a few rehearsals, because Ortrud,
the Herald, and the King will be in new hands. I cannot tell you how deeply the work moves
me every time. The last time we performed it I felt proud of my century, because it possessed
such a man as you show yourself to be in this work. With "Lohengrin," the old opera world comes
to a close; the spirit moves upon the face of the waters, and there is light.

As to your chances in Paris I have not much to say. It is true that "Rienzi" is amongst your
works the most congenial to the Parisians. But whether they will take you up in earnest, and
whether in that case you will be able to count upon the sympathy of the manager, the artists,
and the press, appears very questionable to me. Nevertheless you have done well to go to Paris
yourself. Go on reading Calderon industriously; it will help you to bear the state of things
there, which are in glaring contradiction with your genius and your nature.

Keep me au courant of your Paris adventures, and if I can be of any service to you, I need
hardly say that you may freely dispose of

Your faithful

FRANCISCUS.

257. DEAREST FRANZ,

People take care to give me plenty of diversion. From the enclosed letter, which please seal
before you forward it to the person in question, you will see that in addition to other troubles
I have been robbed. The thief is near you at Jena, where he has had to go for a short time
on military duty. You will, I hope, find no difficulty in finding a person attached or semi-
attached to the police, who could deal with E. W., late waiter at the hotel here, in the manner
indicated by the letter. I think it will be best to frighten the fellow into restoring the
money. If we were simply to put him in prison he would deny the charge in order to save himself,
and it is always difficult to prove a money robbery in legal form.

Show me your practical wisdom as a police agent. But it must be done very quickly, as the fellow
will stay at Jena or Weimar for a little time only. As I start the day after tomorrow, and
shall therefore not be in Paris when he comes back, it would be difficult to lay hold of him
here. So much for today. I hope I shall find time to write you a rational letter from Paris.
A thousand thanks for your faithful love.

Your

R. W.

The money, if recovered, should be sent to Zurich.

258.

If it were given to me, dearest friend, to give you comfort and strength, I should joyfully
make any sacrifice. From Dresden nothing much can be expected as yet, but I shall make another
attempt soon. At Carlsruhe they are well inclined towards you, and the day before yesterday
I had a long conversation about your sad position with the Grand Duchess of Baden, who, like
the Grand Duke, seems to take a lively interest in you. Do not neglect your "Tristan." For
the first performance I should advise you to choose either Carlsruhe or Prague. Weymar would
of course follow at once; for the moment, however, I think it more advisable that another stage
should take the initiative, and have spoken in that sense to Thome in Prague. In any case I
shall not fail to attend the first performance, and you will oblige me by sending me the score
as soon as you have finished it. I intend to lay the work before the Grand Duke, and to ask
him earnestly that he may get you from Dresden the permission of conducting the opera here.
May God grant that this step will, at last, lead to a favourable result.

"Rienzi" cannot be given here this season. Frau von Milde is expecting her confinement, and
has not been singing these two months, besides which, we are at present unable to fill some
other parts properly, and must wait till the end of the year, when several new engagements
come into force. I had, as you know, proposed "Rienzi" as gala opera for February 16th; but
a light opera was preferred, and, as such, your tribune of the people would scarcely pass.

You are probably in direct correspondence with Eckert concerning the performance of "Lohengrin"
at Vienna. He informed me that the work would be given this autumn. The principal parts will
be splendidly cast: Ander (Lohengrin), Meyer (Elsa), and Csillagh (Ortrud), and if Eckert throws
his heart into the thing, a great success is beyond all doubt.

Of my performances at Prague, Vienna, and Pesth, you have probably heard from others. Although
I have no reason to complain, I am very glad that they are over, and that I may stop at home
again; for I must candidly confess that the wear and tear connected with similar occasions
is very unpleasant to me, and becomes almost unbearable if it lasts more than a few weeks.

Do not desert "Tristan"; he is to lead you back soon, and VICTORIOUSLY, to Siegfried.

Your

FRANZ

May 7th, 1858.

259.

I send you today a WONDERFUL FELLOW, dearest Richard; receive him kindly.

Tausig is to work your Erard thoroughly, and to play all manner of things to you. Introduce
him to our mutual friends at Zurich-- Herwegh, Wille, Semper, Moleschott, Kochly--and take
good care of him.

Your

F. LISZT.

WEYMAR, May 18th, 1858.

260.

ZURICH, July 2nd, 1858.

At last, dearest Franz, I have once more got so far as to be able to carry out my long-delayed
intention of writing to you.

I have to thank you very much for your last letter, to which I thought, upon the whole, silence
was the best answer. I hope you understood me rightly. I am generally too talkative, and chat
about many things which it would be better to keep to myself. This would be more advantageous
to others also, for he who refuses to understand a silent friend will find a talking one troublesome.

Cordial thanks also to the good Princess for her letter.

Of "Tristan" I have sketched the second act; whether I have succeeded I shall see when I come
to work it out. It was amusing to me to see you treat this peculiar affair as a matter of literary
business in your letter. I explained to the Princess some time ago that the belief of the Prague
manager, that I was writing this opera for a first performance at his theatre, was a pure misunderstanding.
I could not help smiling at your believing in the assertion of this odd man sufficiently to
speak to me seriously of the matter, and to offer me your amiable assistance. You must, of
course, have been puzzled at my having the score engraved in this early stage of the proceedings.
But there is a very simple reason for it. I had, as you know, no money, and, as "Rienzi" came
to nothing, I saw no other way except "doing business" with the Hartels. For that purpose I
chose "Tristan", then scarcely begun, because I had nothing else. They offered to pay me half
the honorarium of 200 louis d'or, i.e., 100 louis d'or on receipt of the score of the first
act, so I hurried to get it done head over heels. This was the reason of my business- like
haste in finishing this poor work. Altogether, the fate of my works, including "Tristan", has
become a matter of great indifference to me; as to how, where, and when, I care little, as
long as I may be present.

The Grand Duke has probably given you my greetings, for which he asked me in a very amiable
manner. I did not think it proper to charge him with such a message. H. R. H. wanted to know
whether, in case I were permitted to return to Germany, I should go to Weimar, or whether I
should prefer another "engagement," and I explained to him that the only advantage I expected
from my amnesty was, to be able to visit Germany periodically, and that for that purpose I
had chosen your house, because it was your house, as my pied-a-terre. That house, fortunately,
being at Weimar, the only danger would be that you might refuse to receive me, and his wish
of having me at Weimar would entirely depend upon your friendship, which, therefore, he should
try to perpetuate. With that he was quite satisfied.

You have given me great pleasure with little Tausig. When he came into my room, one fine morning,
bringing your letter, I shook you cordially by the hand. He is a terrible youth. I am astonished,
alternately, by his highly developed intellect and his wild ways. He will become something
extraordinary, if he becomes anything at all. When I see him smoking frightfully strong cigars,
and drinking no end of tea, while as yet there is not the slightest hope of a beard, I am frightened
like the hen, when she sees the young ducklings, whom she has hatched by mistake, take to the
water. What will become of him I cannot foresee, but whisky and rum he will not get from me.
I should, without hesitation, have taken him into my house, if we had not mutually molested
each other by pianoforte playing. So I have found him a room in a little hole close to me,
where he is to sleep and work, doing his other daily business at my house. He does, however,
no credit to my table, which, in spite of my grasswidowerhood, is fairly well provided. He
sits down to table every day stating that he has no appetite at all, which pleases me all the
less, because, the reason is, the cheese and the sweets he has eaten. In this manner he tortures
me continually, and devours my biscuits, which my wife doles out grudgingly even to me. He
hates walking, and yet declares that he would like to come with me when I propose to leave
him at home. After the first half hour he lags behind, as if he had walked four hours. My childless
marriage is thus suddenly blessed with an interesting phenomenon, and I take in, in rapid doses,
the quintessence of paternal cares and troubles. All this has done me a great deal of good;
it was a splendid diversion, for which, as I said before, I have to thank you. You knew what
I wanted. Of course the youth pleases me immensely in other ways, and, although he acts like
a naughty boy, he talks like an old man of pronounced character. Whatever subject I may broach
with him, he is sure to follow me with clearness of mind and remarkable receptivity. At the
same time it touches and moves me, when this boy shows such deep, tender feeling, such large
sympathy, that he captivates me irresistibly. As a musician he is enormously gifted, and his
furious pianoforte playing makes me tremble. I must always think of you and of the strange
influence which you exercise over so many, and often considerably gifted, young men. I cannot
but call you happy, and genuinely admire your harmonious being and existence. Well, and how
about you? Will you come to my assistance again this year? Your kind heart promises me to do
so every year, but, during the nine years of my exile, I have succeeded only twice in tearing
you away from your great dense world. Although you have promised me your visit for this year,
you will find it natural if I am not too certain of seeing my wish fulfilled. I must add several
marks of interrogation and of prayer.

Cordial thanks to the dear, heavenly Child for her last letter; I hope my silence was eloquent.

A thousand greetings and cordial responses to you three dear ones! I also wish to be remembered
to F. Muller, who sent me a beautiful letter of congratulation on my birthday. I shall write
to him soon, without fail.

Farewell, dear Franz. You can imagine how often I am with you, especially when Tausig is sitting
at the piano. Between us, all is one. Farewell, and continue to love me.

Your

R. W.

261.

DEAREST RICHARD,

When I saw the Grand Duke last night for the first time after his return, he told me much about
the visit you paid him at Lucerne. I do not know what impression your acquaintance with him
has left on you, as we have had no news from you for such a long time, but from what I have
heard, and what has already happened, I conclude with tolerable certainty that we shall see
you here for the first performance of "Tristan", AT THE LATEST. May God grant that it will
be sooner; and I need not tell you that nothing I can do will be left undone.

Dingelstedt will shortly write to you about "Rienzi", which is to be performed next season,
in December or January. Last winter we were unable to get on with the work for reasons which,
as they exist no longer, are not sufficiently important to be discussed.

Let me soon hear from you.

Your

F. L.

July 3rd, 1858.

I enclose a letter to Tausig, which you will be kind enough to hand to him.

How is he getting on at Zurich, and what do you think of him?

262.

ZURICH, July 8th, 1858.

