The man-of-war orders now uttered find no place in any known code, and in a moment the Bull
Pup becomes a scene of unwonted excitement. The jib, mainsail, and gaff topsail are hauled
up to their very tautest; finally, the cable is slipped, and then old Sandy for the first time
looks around. The boys fail to suppress a loud guffaw, and forthwith dodge the flying tiller.
The old man in the excitement had forgotten an important factor in the navigation of sailing-craft,--namely,
wind. It was a dead calm, and had been all day, and there, almost within reach, was a fortune,--hard
and fast on the outer reef.

C.F. HOLDER.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROUGHING IT IN PALESTINE.

Mohammed can do less than Mammon to-day for the infidel's ease and comfort in Palestine. The
unholy little yellow god works his modern miracles even in the Holy Land. You have but to speak
the word, and show your purse or letter of credit, in Beirut or Jaffa, and, as suddenly as
if you had rubbed Aladdin's lamp, a retinue will be at your door to do your bidding. First
a dragoman, with great baggy trousers of silk, a little gold-embroidered jacket over a colored
vest, a girdle whose most ample folds form an arsenal of no mean proportions, and over the
swarthy face, reposing among the black, glossy curls of a well-poised head, the red Turkish
fez; or, if Ali has an ambition to be thought possessed of much piety of the orthodox Islamic
type, the fez gives way to a turban, white, or green if he be a pilgrim from Mecca. Behind
this important personage, as much a feature of the East as the Sphinx or the Pyramids, stand
at a respectful distance, making profound salutations, a cook,--probably a Greek or Italian,--three
muleteers, and a donkey-boy. Behind them still are two horses,--alas! not blooded Arabs madly
champing their bits,--one for yourself and the other for Ali. Three mules bear patiently on
their backs, always more or less raw, the canvas and poles of the two tents. In the rear is
a small donkey, covered all over with culinary utensils, nibbling fat cactus-leaves with undisguised
satisfaction. For a daily expenditure scarcely greater than is necessary to keep soul and body
together at a fashionable New York hotel on the American plan, you become the commander of
this company, within certain limits around which there are lines as definite and as impassable
as if drawn by an Irish servant of some years' experience in the United States. You must not
travel more than thirty miles a day; you must not change the route agreed upon, unless roads
become impassable; and there are other, minor regulations, to which you are expected to submit,
and, if you do, your progress through the land, if not triumphant, will be at least comfortable.
You will find every day at noon, spread under some wide-armed tree, a cold lunch that even
a somewhat difficult taste would consider fairly appetizing; and at nightfall you dismount
before the door of your tent and sit down to a dinner of many courses, which to a stomach jounced
for ten hours over a saddle seems a very fair dinner indeed. Your breakfast is what a Frenchman
would call a déjeûner à la fourchette; and as you put down your napkin, your tent is folded
almost as quickly and as silently, and you mount your horse, standing ready for another thirty
miles. Yet, if you have just come from Egypt and three months on a dahabeah, you will not hesitate
to call this luxurious mode of passing from Dan to Beersheba "roughing it in Palestine."

But it was my good fortune, after journeying from Beirut to Jerusalem with dragoman and muleteers
and tents, like a prince, to go up through the country like a private citizen. I fell in with
a young man in the Holy City, bora of American parents at Sidon, who had been educated in America
and was now on his way back to his birthplace to spend his life in the sacred fields as a missionary.
He was thoroughly equipped for roughing it, with a splendid physique and perfect health, imperturbable
spirits, and a rare command of classic and vernacular Arabic. He wanted to go to Beirut with
as few impedimenta as possible, and, after some talk, we merged our two parties into one. Our
preparations for the journey were of the simplest sort. We agreed to dispense with dragomans
and cooks and tents and trust to the land for food and shelter. We engaged three good horses
and a muleteer. We strapped our baggage on the muleteer's horse, drew lots for the choice of
the other two, and turned our faces northward.

It was long before daybreak, one Monday morning, when we stole quietly out of the Jaffa gate
and took the road for Nablous. We were leaving behind us the most sacred spot on earth to Jew,
Catholic, Greek, and Protestant; but from the road that stretches out before the Jaffa gate
all the holy places of Jerusalem are invisible. The round dome over the Sepulchre was hidden
behind the city's wall and the intervening houses. The Dome of the Rock, as the beautiful mosque
of Omar is called, the most striking and brilliant object of the whole city from the Damascus
gate, is beneath the hill of Golgotha. Only the Valley of Hinnom, and the Hill of Evil Counsel,
and the slopes leading to Bethlehem, caught our parting gaze. But an American Protestant turns
his back upon the Holy City with a very different feeling from that of the old Crusaders. He
cannot see the Turkish Mohammedan soldiers guarding the tomb of Christ without a choking sensation
in the throat, but he believes that life has nobler battles for him than fighting the unbeliever
for the empty sepulchre of his Lord. The surroundings of all the sacred places are so inharmonious
that, while he can never regret his pilgrimage, he can scarcely regret that it is over. We
rose in our saddles, and, turning, took our last look at the Holy City with very mingled emotions,
and then settled down to the hard day's work before us.

