Outside, in the Hornsey Road, horse-omnibuses rattled by and the shops that were still open
at eleven o'clock glistened with light. Up the road, at the butcher's just below the Plough
public-house, a small crowd lingered, turning over scraps of meat, while the butcher himself,
chanting "Lovely, lovely, lovely!" in a kind of ecstasy, plunged again into a fresh piece of
meat the attractive legend, "Oh, mother, look! Three ha'pence a pound!" Just over the way,
at the Supply Stores, they had begun to roll down the heavy shutter, hiding the bright windows,
and leaving only a narrow doorway, through which light streamed and made rainbow colours on
the pavement outside. The noise of the street was a racketting roar, hardly lower now than
it had been all the evening. Sally crouched at the window of the first floor flat, looking
down at the black roadway, and watching the stragglers from the Supply Stores.

In the flat above there was the sound of one who sang, vamping an accompaniment upon the piano
and emphasising the simple time of his carol by a dully stamped foot upon the floor. His foot--making
in soft slippers a dead "dump-dump-dump"--shook the ceiling of the Mintos' flat. They could
hear his dry voice huskily roaring, "There you are, there you are, there you ain't--ain't--ain't."
They had heard it a thousand times, always with the familiar stamp. It was very gay. Old Perce,
as he was called, was a carver in a City restaurant. It was he who received orders from the
knowing; and in return for apparent tit-bits he received acknowledgments in coin--twopence
or threepence a time. Therefore, when he reached home each evening, nicely cheery and about
a quarter drunk, his first act after having tea was to withdraw from his pockets a paper bag
or two--such as those supplied by banks for the carriage of silver--which he would empty of
greasy coppers. He piled these coppers in mounds of twelve, and counted them over several times.
He then smoked his pipe, went into his front room, and played, "There you are, there you are,
there you ain't--ain't--ain't." Sally did not remember ever having heard him sing anything
else. He was singing it: now with customary gusto. Sally thought he must be a very rich man.
Old Perce's wife, who let her practise on their piano, hinted as much. His wages were low,
she said, but in a week his tips often came to three or four pounds. Three or four pounds!
Whew! Sally's father only made thirty-five shillings in a week, everything included. Mrs. Perce
told Sally many other things, which Sally shrewdly treasured in memory. It was well to know
these things, Sally thought: any day they might be ... useful. For a girl not yet seventeen,
Sally had a strangely abundant sense of possible utilities. All old Perce's relatives were
licensed victuallers, she had learned; and one day he too would take a "little 'ouse" and stand
behind his own bar, instead of behind the counter of a city restaurant. Those would be days!
"'Ave a trap and go outa Sunday afternoons," Mrs. Perce said. "Oo, I wish you'd take me!" Sally
cried. "Course I will!" answered Mrs. Perce, with the greatest good-humour. Meanwhile old Perce
had money out on loan. "I'd like," thought Sally, with considering eyes, "to have money out
on loan. I will, too. One day. Why shouldn't I?"

Sally's mother, Mrs. Minto, was yawning by the small fire in the grate. She was a meagre little
woman of about forty, tired and energetic. The Mintos' flat, although very bare, was very clean.
Even when there was nothing to eat, there was water for scouring; and Mrs. Minto's hands were
a sort of red-grey, hard and lined, all the little folds of the discoloured skin looking as
if they had been bitten deep with acid that made them black. Her hair was very thin, and she
drew it closely back from her forehead into a tiny knob like a bell-pull, leaving the brow
high and dry as if the tide of hair had receded. Her lids were heavy over anxious eyes; her
mouth was a bitter stroke across her face, under the small, inquiring nose. Her breast was
flat, and her body bent through daily housework and too little care of herself, too little
personal pride.

Sally resembled her mother. She too was small and thin. Her hair was pale brown, an insipid
colour with a slight sandiness in it. Her cheeks were faintly freckled just under the eyes,
and her nose, equally small and inquiring, had some freckles upon it too. Her eyelashes were
light; her eyes a grey with splashes of amber. She was sitting huddled up near the window,
breathing intently, looking out of it with eager, fascinated interest. The streets were full
of lures. Outside, there was something which drew and absorbed her whole nature. The noise
and the lights intoxicated her; the darkness was even more bewilderingly full of dangerous
attractiveness. It was night, and night was the time when thrills came, when her heart beat
closely with a sense of timid impudence, a sort of leashed daring. In darkness she brushed
hands against the hands of boys, and got into conversation with strangers, and felt herself
romantically transfigured. They couldn't see how plain she was in the dark: she herself forgot
it. In the dark she felt that she was bolder, with nobody to observe her and carry tales to
her mother. Boys who wouldn't look at her in daylight followed her at night along dark streets.
She was getting very experienced with boys. She could look after herself with them. Her eyes
interestedly and appraisingly scanned every male, so that she came to know a great deal about
the ways of men, although she never put her knowledge into words. She scrutinised them. In
daylight her plainness was a help in that, because they did not take any notice of so insignificant
a figure, and she absorbed every detail of the "fellows" she met, without having to do it under
their return observation, by means of side-glances. This was a benefit, and at heart made her
bolder, more ruthless.

At this moment, watching the people come out from the little door in the shutter of the Supply
Stores, Sally ignored the silhouettes of women; but she peered quite intensely at those of
the men. Men filled her thoughts. She was always choosing which men she liked, and which did
not interest her, and which were weak and easily exploited. Or, if she were prevented from
doing that, she could still look at them, seeing that they were men, and not women. The noise
was good, the lights were good; but the darkness, such as there now was in the street below,
in all the diminished labour of late traffic, was best of all. She saw the last customer at
the Stores shown to the door by Mr. Beddow, the keeper of the shop; and the narrow door in
the shutters closed. The last stream of light was abruptly cut off. The face of the Stores
was black. All the opposite side of the roadway was now black. There were no more silhouettes.

Mr. Beddow's cheeks were very fat, and when he smiled his eyes disappeared into slits just
behind the top of his bulging cheeks. He wore a light frizzly beard. Once Mr. Beddow had given
her a little bottle of acid-drops. All the acid-drops were gone now. She had given some of
them to May Pearcey, who worked with her. They had eaten the remainder next day over their
work, while Miss Jubb was out of the room; and the drops had made them thirsty and had given
them hot, sweet breath. Funny she should remember it all so clearly.

