    A tom-cat shod with walnut-shells,
      A pony race in pattens,
    A wagon-horse tricked out with bells,
      A sow in silks and satins,
    A butcher's hair en papillote,
      And lounging Piccadilly,
    A clown in an embroidered coat,
      Are not more gauche and silly.

    Let atoms take their dusty dance,
      But men are not corpuscles:
    An Englishman's not made in France,
      Nor wire and buckram muscles.
    The manly leap, the breathing race,
      The wrestle, or old cricket,
    Give to the limbs a native grace--
      So, here's for double-wicket.

    Leave dancing to the women, Men--
      In them it is becoming;--
    I never tire to see them, when
      Joe Hart his fiddle's strumming,
    Or Colinet and mild Musard
      Have set their hearts quadrilling;--
    Then be each nymph a gay Brocard,
      And every woman killing.

    I love to see the pretty dears
      Go lightly caracolling,
    And drinking love at eyes and ears,
      With every look their soul in!
    I like to watch the swan-like grace
      They show in minuetting.
    It hits one's bosom's tenderest place,
      To see them pirouetting.

    But when a measurer of tape
      Turns butterfly and dandy,
    Assumes their grace, their air, their shape,
      I wish a pump were handy!
    I never to such balls will go,
      Those poor pretexts for prancing;
    Where Jenkins dislocates his toe,
      And Tomkins thinks he's dancing.

Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

    A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

FAMILY RECKONING.

Two Irishmen lately met, who had not seen each other since their arrival from Dublin's fair
city. Pat exclaimed, "How are you, my honey; how is Biddy Sulivan, Judy O'Connell, and Daniel
O'Keefe?" "Oh! my jewel," answered the other, "Biddy has got so many children that she will
soon be a grandfather; Judy has six, but they have no father at all, for she never was married.
And, as for Daniel, he's grown so thin, that he is as thin as us both put together."

W. G. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

VARY-WEEL WHILE IT LASTS.

Two old Scotch gentlemen, having left their better halves in the Land o' Cakes, on quitting
Covent Garden theatre were discussing the merits of the play, the School for Scandal. "I was
vary gled to see Sir Peter and my Leddy Tizzle sic gude frinds agin, Mr. M'Dougal, what think
ye?" "Eh, mon, vary weel while it lasts, but it's just Mrs. M'Dougal's way. I'se warrant they're
at it agin afore we are doon in our beds mon." Poor Sheridan should have heard this himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of his majesty's frigates being at anchor on a winter's night, in a tremendous gale of
wind, the ground broke, and she began to drive. The lieutenant of the watch ran down to the
captain and awoke him from his sleep, and told him the anchor had come home. "Well," said the
captain, rubbing his eyes, "I think our anchor is perfectly right, for who the d---- would
stay out such a night as this?"

W. G. C.

       *       *       *       *       *

Beer was first introduced into England in 1492; into Scotland as early as 1482. By the statute
of King James I. one full quart of the best beer or ale was to be sold for one penny, and two
quarts of small beer for one penny.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the museum of Stuttgard, is a portrait of the Countess of Salzburg, who, at the age of 50
years, had mustachios, whiskers, and a beard, as long and as black as those of any man.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRIAL BY JURY.

The following anecdote is given in "Lettres tres sur l'Angleterre par A. de Stael Holstein."
"King George III. once gave directions for closing up a gate and a road in his own park at
Richmond, which had been free to foot passengers for many years. A citizen of Richmond, who
found the road convenient to the inhabitants of that village, took up the cause of his neighbours.
He contended, that, although the thoroughfare might have been originally an encroachment, it
had become public property by the lapse of time, and by prescriptive right, and that he should
compel the king to re-open it. He brought his suit, without hesitating, into a court of justice,
and gained his process."