HOW TO TIE FLIES

HOW TO TIE FLIES

BY E. C. GREGG

DRAWINGS AND PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE AUTHOR

A. S. BARNES AND COMPANY

NEW YORK

Copyright, 1940, A. S. Barnes & Company. Inc

THIS BOOK IS FULLY PROTECTED BY COPYRIGHT AND NOTHING THAT APPEARS IN IT MAY BE REPRINTED OR
REPRODUCED IN ANY MANNER, EITHER WHOLLY OR IN PART, FOR ANY USE WHATEVER, WITHOUT SPECIAL WRITTEN
PERMISSION BY THE COPYRIGHT OWNER

PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

CONTENTS

  INTRODUCTION                                           vii
  TOOLS, HOOKS AND MATERIALS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
     Tools--Fly-Tier's Vise Hackle Pliers, scissors,
     Hooks
     Materials--Quill Bodies, Herl Bodies, Hackles,
             Tails, Cheeks or Shoulders, Ribbing,
             Wings, Tying Silk
  BUCKTAIL STREAMERS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
  WET FLIES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
  DRY FLIES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
  NYMPHS and Their Construction . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
     Nymphs: Their Construction
     The Helgramite
  BASS FLIES AND FEATHER STREAMERS  . . . . . . . . . .   42
  FAMOUS BUCKTAIL AND FEATHER STREAMERS . . . . . . . .   47
  FLOATING BUGS and Their Construction  . . . . . . . .   49
     Cork Bodied Bass Bugs
  ANGLER'S KNOTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   61
  MY FAVORITE FLIES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   62
  STANDARD DRESSINGS OF 334 FLIES . . . . . . . . . . .   69

{vi}

{vii}

INTRODUCTION

The object of this book will be throughout its entirety to teach in a practical manner the
art of Fly Tying in all its branches.  The principles used herein, and the methods of construction
employed, are those used by the professional fly-tier who practices fly-making for the sake
of art, and tries to achieve with each finished fly, a masterpiece.

None of the short-cuts employed by those whose business is quantity production will be attempted.
Only the making of flies of the very highest quality and most durable construction will be
attempted. In describing the principals of construction with the following illustrations, it
will be impossible to describe in detail each standard pattern; however, it must be remembered
that the fundamentals applying to each style of fly will be the principal bases of construction
of all flies of that style, and that the use of different body materials, hackles, wings or
size will simply change the pattern and not the fundamental points of construction.

Dressings for hundreds of standard patterns will be found fully described elsewhere in this
book. For clearness {viii} of understanding please note that where a fly is described in this
book as having grey wings, or red body, etc., and no particular feather or material is specified,
it means that any feather or body material may be used. When a particular feather, body, hackle,
tail, etc., must be used it will be so stated.

Each year a steadily increasing number of anglers are learning to tie their own flies. Not
many years ago, there were few in America outside of professional tiers who understood the
art.  Now on each angling trip, at least one is sure to be met, who has discovered the great
thrill of taking fish on flies of his own tying.

To those who are anticipating the making of their own flies for the first time, there is the
opportunity to exercise one's ingenuity in the creation of new patterns. To prolong your fishing
seasons throughout the long winter evenings, in the confines of your own den, where, with a
supply of fur, feathers and tinsel, can be enjoyed a profitable, artistic and pleasant hobby.
And the thrill of seeing in each finished imitation of Ephemeridae, Muscidae and Formicidae,
a masterpiece to bring the joy of living and dreams of spring to the angler's heart.

Beginners are requested to reject any inclination to skip over the first part of this book,
nor to attempt the tying of the more delicate and difficult dry flies before they have had
sufficient preliminary training. {ix} This book is so written that the easier flies to make
are the first encountered. Although you may not expect to use Bucktail Streamers, the fundamental
principles employed in their construction, the knack of handling fur, feathers and tinsel,
will be acquired, and a sense of proportion will be realized. I sincerely encourage you to
begin at the beginning, and by careful and patient study the satisfactory result will be the
ability to make flies that are second to none.

The illustrations in this book are all drawn to correct proportions except the tying silk,
which is purposely drawn large for clearness of illustration. Follow these illustrations, and
begin by making a very careful study of Diagram 3, "Bucktails" (page 15). Here will be learned
how to overcome some of the difficulties encountered by beginners. Many of the fundamentals
learned in tying Bucktails are used in tying all of the flies to follow. For instance, in putting
the wings or tail on a wet fly, the same method of holding the wing between the thumb and finger
and making the loose loop, are explained as when putting the hair or tail on a Bucktail. Putting
the wings on a fly correctly seems to be the greatest difficulty encountered by the beginner.
Consequently, the necessity of carefully studying Figs. 4, 5, 10, and 11 of Diagram 3 cannot
be too greatly emphasized. Before tying any other part of the fly, place a bare hook in the
vise, and practice tying on the tail, {x} and then the wings, until you have mastered this
knack, and have the wings and tail setting straight on top of the hook, as in Figs. 4, 5, 10
and 11 of Diagram 3.  First using hair and then a section of feather.

Other faults of the beginner where literal descriptions are followed entirely or where illustrations
are not drawn to correct proportions or followed closely are as follows. The wings are usually
too large, and much too long for the size of the hook, and the tail is most always too long,
as are the hackles. The bodies seldom have a nicely tapered shape, and most always start too
far back on the hook shank. The ribbing is seldom put on in even tight spirals. The hair on
hair flies is always too long, and too much is used. The head is too large, because the tying
silk is not wound tightly and smoothly.  The eye of the hook on the finished fly is filled
with hair, tying silk, hackles and cement.

I do not mean to criticize these common mistakes of the beginner. Instead, I merely wish to
call them to your mind, and assure you that they are not necessary, and will not happen if
you will diligently follow instructions in this book.

{xi}

{xii}

{1}

TOOLS, HOOKS AND MATERIALS

Very few tools are required by the Fly-Tier.   Those that are necessary are inexpensive, and
most of them can be homemade.  However, as with any other craft good tools are an asset. I
advise the beginner to procure the following:

TOOLS

Fly-Tiers' vise. There are many styles of fly-tying vises on the market. The simplest is just
a slot cut in a 3/8" piece of square steel with a hacksaw, and a thumb screw to tighten the
slot.  This type of vise will work all right, although rather clumsy and hard to tighten enough
to hold the hook truly. Another simple vise is just a small pin chuck, soldered to one end
of a 1/4" brass rod, bent at the desired angle, and the other end of the rod soldered to a
small C clamp. However, I prefer a vise of the cam lever type.  That is, a vise that has a
cam lever for opening and closing the jaws. These vises, of which there are several makes,
are {2} adjustable to various angles and hook sizes. They will hold all sizes of hooks very
firmly, and are easily and quickly opened with a flip of the lever.

Hackle Pliers. These can be purchased for about fifty cents and will prove a worthwhile investment,
as they are rather difficult to make satisfactorily.

Scissors. One pair with curved blades and sharp points for small flies and one pair with small
straight blades. A needle pushed into a stick, for picking out hackles that are wound under,
and for putting lacquer on the finished head, completes the list of necessary tools.

HOOKS

Hooks used for fly-tying differ somewhat from those used for bait fishing etc., inasmuch as
they are usually hollow ground, and tapered shank especially those used for dry flies. The
tapered shank next to the eye allows the head of the fly to be tied smaller, and also reduces
the weight of the hook, an advantage for dry flies.  Of course flies may be tied on any style
or grade of hook, but considering the work involved in making the fly, and realizing that with
an old razor blade the fly can be quickly removed from the hook should the first attempts prove
unsatisfactory, you will see the advantage in using good hooks.

{3}

{4}

MATERIALS

Materials used by the Fly-Tier cover an extremely large field.  Although only a few simple
and easily obtained items are necessary for a start, it is interesting to know that furs, feathers
and body materials come from all parts of the world. There's the jungle cock from India whose
neck feathers are extensively used on salmon flies and a very large percentage of all fancy
flies.  The golden pheasant from China, the bustard from Africa, the Mandarin wood duck from
China, the capercailzie from Ireland, the game cocks from Spain and the Orient, the teal, mallard,
grouse, ibis, swan, turkey, and hundreds of others. The polar bear, Impala, North and South
American deer, seal, black bear, skunk, rabbit, squirrel, are a few of the hairs that are used.
The beginner need not worry about the great variety. Some hooks, silk floss and spun fur or
wool yarn and chenille for bodies, a few sizes of tinsel for ribbing, bucktails of three or
four colors, an assortment of duck and turkey wing quills some mallard breast, an assortment
of neck and saddle hackles, a spool of tying silk, a piece of wax, a bottle of head lacquer,
and many of the popular patterns can be made. Numerous other items can be added from time to
time, and the novice Fly-Tier will soon find himself in possession of a collection of fuzzy
furs and feathers that will delight the heart of any professional, and from which any conceivable
lure can be made to attract the denizens of the shady pools.

{5}

{6}

BODY MATERIAL: Tinsel, Silk Floss, Fur, Chenille, Wool, Quill and Cork are used for bodies.
The most commonly used for Bucktail Streamers is flat tinsel ribbed with oval tinsel or no
ribbing at all. About the easiest body to make is one of chenille ribbed with tinsel. Silk
floss is mostly used for wet and dry fly bodies.  The domestic silk floss, which is called
rope, can be successfully used for the larger flies, by untwisting and using a few of the smaller
strands. An imported floss of one single strand, with a very slight twist, is especially made
for fly-tying; this will work much better on the smaller hooks. Fur for fur bodies, which formerly
had to be plucked from the hide, dyed the desired color, and spun on the waxed tying silk,
can now be obtained in all standard fly colors. It is called Spun Fur, and is very convenient
to use in this manner.

QUILL BODIES: Quill makes an excellent and very lifelike body, especially on dry flies. The
quill from the eyed peacock tail feather is mostly used. That taken from the eye of the feather
when stripped of its fibers has a two tone effect, and when wound upon the hook without overlapping
makes a very lifelike and delicate appearing body.

{7}

{8}

HERL BODIES: Both peacock and ostrich herl is used for bodies. These make a fuzzy body. Tie
in one or two strands by the tip end and wind on edgewise.

HACKLES: These are the most important part of the dry fly. Only those from the neck of a mature
cock are satisfactory. Hackles for the dry fly must be stiff with very little or no web. With
such hackles a dry fly can be sparsely dressed as it should be and still maintain its natural
balance and floating qualities.  On the other hand, a wet fly should sink readily, and should
be made with very soft webby hackles. These absorb water quickly, and have better action in
the water. Contrary to the customary way to tie hackles on the wet fly, as explained in the
chapter "Wet Flies", I find it very convenient and economical to strip the fibers from any
size hackle, clip off the butt ends to the desired length and tie them on the bottom of the
hook, the same as buck tail is tied on. As wet flies should have hackles only on the bottom
or underneath side, many hackles that are otherwise too large can be used in this way.

TAILS: A few fibers from a golden or silver pheasant neck tippet, whisks from a hackle feather,
a strip of wing or breast feather, a few hairs, etc., are used for tails. Many of the standard
patterns are tied without tails; however, on all of my dry flies, I tie three or four stiff
fibers or hairs. They balance the fly and help it to float much better.

{9}

{10}

CHEEKS OR SHOULDERS: As per Fig. 9, Diagram 1, these are used on a great many of the fancy
flies. These are straps of one or several feathers of contrasting colors. Jungle cock feathers,
golden pheasant tippets, silver pheasant body feathers, as on the Grey Ghost streamer fly,
blue chatterer, and many other fancy feathers according to pattern and fancy are used for this
purpose. A pair of jungle cock tippets often called eyes, added to a Bucktail Streamer will
often take trout, when the same pattern without the jungle cock will not.

RIBBING: Tinsel, Wool, Silk, Horse Hair, Quill, etc., are used for ribbing. The tinsel from
your Xmas tree will do, but it is much better to use tinsel made for the purpose, as it will
not tarnish so quickly and is much stronger. It is advisable before using tinsel to place a
drop of good, clear head lacquer between the thumb and finger and draw the tinsel through it.
This makes it tarnish-proof, and is particularly advisable with the oval and round tinsel that
is wound over a silk core. Besides tarnish-proofing it, it will keep the tinsel from coming
apart. Tinsel bodies should be lacquered after they are finished.

{11}

WINGS: Several styles of wings are used, see Diagram 2, page xi, those on Fig. 1, and are cut
from a pair of matched wing quill feathers, like Fig. 7. Those in Fig. 2 are buzz wings taken
from a pair of breast feathers {12} (mallard, wood duck, etc.) shown in Fig. 8. Fig. 3 shows
hackle tip wings, tips of two hackle feathers, see Fig. 9. Fan wings, Fig. 4, are a matched
pair of small breast feathers, see Fig. 10 (white duck, mallard, teal, grouse, etc.). In fact
there is hardly a bird that flies that does not supply some of its plumage to the Fly-Tier.
Flies of the order Diptera (land flies), such as the Bee, Cowdung, Blue Bottle, etc., should
be tied with flat wings as in Fig. 5. A Bi-visible is shown in Fig. 6. This is a fly without
wings, hackle tied palmer (that is hackle wound the full length of the hook, usually tied without
a body, and the dark patterns have a turn or two of white hackle in front).

All of the flies on Diagram 2 are shown as dry flies; however, the same feathers are used for
wet flies, streamers, etc., the difference being the style in which they are tied, which is
explained elsewhere.

WAX: Use a good grade of wax for fly-tying. The proper wax will work much better than shoemaker's
wax or beeswax. Wax for fly-tying should be quite sticky so that when the waxed tying silk
is let go of, it will not unwind while tying the fly.

{13}

TYING SILK: Ordinary sewing silk is too coarse for ordinary fly-tying and it doesn't seem to
have the strength. Size 00 is a good size for all flies including bucktails and streamers.
For dry flies and small wet flies a gossamer silk size 000 and 0000 is the best to {14} use.
Although the strength of this fine silk is much less than the size 00, it has the advantage
that more turns can be used, and the heads can be made much smaller.

{15}

BUCKTAIL STREAMERS

{16}

Place a hook in the vise and start waxed tying silk (See Diagram 3, page 15) (A) 1/8" from
eye of hook Fig. 1. Take five or six turns and cut off end (B) Fig. 2. Wind tying silk (A)
closely and smoothly down hook shank as Fig 3. (A complete understanding of the next step will
have a great deal to do with the success of the beginner's greatest difficulty, that is, putting
on the wings; the procedure is the same for all flies, study Fig. 4.) Hold tail material (C)
between thumb and finger of the left hand, slide the fingers down over the hook, so that the
tail material rests on top of the hook, with the hook held firmly between thumb and finger
as Fig. 4. Now loosen grip just enough to allow tying silk (A) to pass up between thumb and
tail material, form a loose loop over material, and down, between finger and material on the
other side. Now tighten grip with thumb and finger and pull loop down tight; repeat once more,
see Fig. 5. (This knack of holding the material and hook firmly together, until the loose loop
is drawn down tightly keeps the tail, or wings, on top of the {17} hook, and at the same time
keeps them from splitting or turning sidewise.) Now that the tail is in place, with two turns
of the tying silk (A) tie in ribbing (D) Fig. 6. Now take six or eight close tight turns with
the tying silk towards the eye of the hook, with two more turns tie in the body material (E)
Fig. 7. IF USING TINSEL FOR BODY MATERIAL, BE SURE AND CUT THE END TO A TAPER BEFORE TYING
IN as (E) Fig. 7; this tends to make a smoother body and prevents a bunch where the body material
is tied in. Next wind tying silk (A) back to the starting point, take a half hitch and let
it hang. Now wind body material (E) clockwise (all windings are clockwise) tightly and smoothly
back towards the barb, to the extreme rear end of the body, pull tight and wind forward to
within 1/8" of the eye, wind back and forth to form smooth tapered body as Fig. 8 (tinsel bodies
are not tapered).  (If using silk floss, untwist the floss and use only one half or one third
of the strands, do not let it twist, wind tight, and it will make a nice smooth body.) Take
two turns and a half hatch with the tying silk, and cut off end of the material (F) Fig. 8.
Take one tight turn with ribbing (D) over butt of tail close to rear end of the body, also
one turn under the tail if tail is to be cocked. Wind ribbing spirally around the body and
tie off with two turns and a half hitch of tying silk as Fig. 9.

{18}

{19}

{20}

Take about three dozen hairs of colored bucktail, cut off butt ends to the length wanted for
the finished fly, not more than one half again as long as the hook, place these on top of the
hook as Fig. 10 with butt ends about 1/16" back of the eye (this is held the same as when putting
on the tail, Fig. 4).  Pull down two or three loops, Fig. 11. Now take about 175 hairs of other
colored bucktail, place this on top of the first colored bucktail the  same as Fig. 10. Repeat
the same operation as Fig. 11. Before finishing the head put a drop of head lacquer on the
butt ends of the hairs to cement  them in place, finish by making a smooth tapered head with
the tying silk, take three or four half hitches, paint the head with two or three coats of
lacquer and the job is complete, unless you wish  to add jungle cock cheeks, or other combinations
of feathers. This of course is done before the head is completed.

{21}

{22}

WET FLIES

Start the waxed tying silk (See Diagram 4, page 21) 1/8" from eye of hook, Fig. 1. Wind tying
silk (A) down shank of hook, and with last two turns tie in tag material (B) Fig. 2. Tags (see
diagram 1) usually represent the egg sac on the female of the species. Chenille, wool, gold,
silver, silk, herl, or various other materials are used for tags. (Ribbing, if used, is tied
in just before the tag material.) Tie in tail (C) Fig. 3 (see Fig. 4 Bucktail, Diagram 3, page
15, for directions, how to hold the tail.  Take from one to four turns with the Tag Material
(B) around the hook, take a couple of turns with tying silk (A) around the loose end of (B)
and cut off (B) as Fig. 4. Take about three or four turns towards the eye of the hook with
(A), with two more turns tie in the body material (D) Fig. 4. Wind (D) back and forth several
times to form a tapered body, fasten with two or three turns and a half hitch with (A) Fig.
5. Next take hackle (E), and strip off soft web fibers on dotted line, Fig. E. Hold hackle
{23} (E) by the tip with thumb and finger of the left hand, with the shiny side of the hackle
to the right, place the butt diagonally under the hook and take four or five tight turns and
a half hitch with (A) Fig. 6. Be sure that the hackle is tied on edgewise with the shiny side
to the front. Now grasp the tip of the hackle with the hackle pliers and wind four or five
turns clockwise around the hook. If the hackle starts winding edgewise it will go on without
any trouble, if not better take it off and try again until you get the knack of tying the butt
in at just the right angle. Take three or four turns over the hackle tip with (A) and clip
off the tip close as Fig. 7. With the thumb and finger of the left hand, reach from under the
hook and pull all the fibers down to the bottom, take three or four turns over them with (A)
towards the barb of the hook, to hold them in place, and to keep them pointing well back, as
Fig. 8. Next take a pair of matched (one right and one left) turkey, goose, or other wing feathers,
Fig. A, and cut a section from each about 1/4" wide, place the two sections with tips even
and concave sides together as Fig. B. Cut off the butt ends to the right length, that is so
that the tips come even, or a little beyond the bend of the hook. Place on top of hook as Fig.
9 and tie on the same as previously explained in tying hair on Bucktails (Diagram 3, page 15,
Figs. 4 and 10). Finish off with a smooth tapered head, two or three half hitches {24} and
a couple of coats of good head lacquer, Fig. 10. Many patterns are tied palmer, that is the
hackle is wound the whole length of the body. Many of the dry flies are tied this way, especially
the Bi-visibles. To tie a palmer hackle, prepare the hackle by holding the tip of the hackle
between the thumb and finger of the left hand, and with the thumb and finger of the right hand,
stroke the fibers back so that they point towards the butt, instead of towards the tip, Fig.
C, Diagram 4. With the shiny side of the hackle up, strip off the fibers from the bottom side
as Fig. D. Now tie the hackle in by the tip as Fig. 11. Make the body the same as before. Wind
the hackle spirally around the body and tie off the butt, Fig. 12. To make the hackle more
full near the head, one or more hackles are tied in at the same time as Figs. 6 and 7, the
palmer hackle is wound to within 1/8" of the eye and the butt tied in and cut off the same
as the tip was cut off Fig. 7.

{25}

{26}

{27}

DRY FLIES

Start winding waxed tying silk (See Diagram 5, page 28) (A) about 1/8" from the eye of the
hook, take three or four turns towards the bend of the hook and cut off end, Fig. 1, Diagram
5. Cut a section about 1/4" wide from a right and one from a left wing feather, as Fig. A Diagram
4, page 21 (duck wings are best for dry flies). Place convex sides together (just the reverse
of Fig. B, Diagram 4). Do not cut off the butt ends, instead straddle the hook as Fig. 2, Diagram
5. Hold between the thumb and finger of the left hand as already explained in Figs. 4 and 10,
Diagram 3, page 15. Tip the wings (B) forward so that they stand about perpendicular to the
shank, and pull down loop, Fig. 3, as explained in Diagram 3, Fig. 4. Take one more turn with
(A) around the wings (B) in front as Fig. 4 and before loosening the grip with the left hand
take two turns around the hook close in back of the wings (B), Fig. 5. Next pull the butt ends
back tightly as Fig. 6, take two tight turns around them with (A) and cut off on dotted line
as Fig. 6. Cross (A) between wings (B) to spread them, and wind tying silk (A) down shank of
the hook as Fig. 7.

{28}

{29}

{30}

From now on the body is made as previously explained, so for the sake of variation we will
tie a band in the centre, the same as a Royal Coachman. Tie in tail (C) Fig. 8. Tie in two
or three strands of peacock herl (D) Fig. 9 with (A) and wind (A) four or five turns towards
the eye of the hook. Take three or four turns with herl (D). Tie in two strands of silk floss
(E) Fig. 10, take a few more turns with (A) over the loose ends of (D) towards the eye of the
hook. Wind silk floss (E) over the herl about half way up the hook. Take a turn or two around
silk floss (E) with (A) and cut off end of (E) as Fig. 11. Carry (A) up to the front of the
wings. Finish body with herl (D) wound tight against the back of the wings. (This helps to
push the wings forward and to hold them in place.) Tie off herl (D) with (A) Fig. 12. The next
step of putting on the hackle (F) is done the same as Fig. 6, Diagram 4, page 21.  But here
the hackle is much more important than on the wet fly. The floating qualities of a dry fly
depend entirely upon stiff neck hackle of the proper size. (Use Hackle Chart.) Sometimes two
hackles are used, these are laid together, and both butts tied in at the same time. One hackle
of the proper size and stiffness is usually enough, so we will use one tied in as Fig. 13 and
explained in Fig. 6, Diagram 4, page 21. Clip the hackle pliers to the tip of hackle (F) and
wind about two turns edgewise in front of the wings, wind two turns close {31} in back  of
the wings. Take two or three more turns in front of the wings, all the while keeping the hackle
edgewise, with the shiny side towards the eye of the hook. Wind the hackle close so as not
to fill up the eye of the hook and to leave room for the head. Tie in the tip with a couple
of turns of (A) Fig. 14. The hackle should now be standing straight out from the hook, with
the most of it in front of the wings. Shape a tapered head with (A). (Head should be about
1/16" long on a size 12 hook.) Finish with two or three half hitches and a drop of head lacquer,
Fig. 15.

Various feathers are used for wings of dry flies, such as breast feathers from mallard, teal;
partridge, grouse, black duck, wood duck. Hackle tips, starling, duck, turkey, goose, pheasant,
wing feathers, etc.

Two whole feathers of the proper size, with the natural curve are used for fan wings. The tips
of two feathers, or a section may be cut from two matched feathers. All of these wings are
tied on in the same manner as previously explained. See Diagram 2 for flies tied with different
style wings.

{32}

NYMPHS AND THEIR CONSTRUCTION

NYMPHS

Nymphs are larvae of all aquatic insects. Together with minnows, crawfish, etc., they represent
about ninety per cent of the trout's regular diet. Considering this fact, it is obvious that
nymphs will take trout throughout the entire season. It will greatly surprise the novice to
learn of the great amount of underwater insect life present in any stream. Next time you go
fishing, hold your landing net close to the bottom, in a foot or so of fast water.  Reach upstream
and loosen the stones and gravel. Raise your landing net, and notice the numerous nymphs that
have been washed from under the stones, and have attached themselves to your net. Better still,
make a screen about two feet square, from regular 14 mesh window screening. Hold this in the
water, and have your fishing partner go upstream, and with a regular garden rake, or some such
tool, rake up the bottom, turning over the stones and gravel.  This way you can capture many
nymphs. Put them in glass bottles, take them home, and make copies of them. When next you {33}
go fishing open the first trout you catch, examine the contents of its stomach, and determine
which of the copies you have made is the proper nymph or fly for the occasion. To fish with
an imitation of the fly or nymph upon which they are feeding, will result in a heavier creel.

When nymph fishing it is important to use a long, finely tapered leader. A 4x is about right.
Fish in the same waters, and very much the same way as with a dry fly except that the nymph
is allowed to sink. Fish upstream, or up and across the current. In the ripples. Around boulders.
At the edge of fast water. Let the nymph drift with the current. Follow it with your rod tip,
and be prepared to set the hook at the least hesitation of the line. Trout will sometimes take
a drifting nymph and eject it, without being felt on the most delicate rod, so be ever on the
alert when nymph fishing. A nymph fished down stream, and retrieved with slow, short jerks,
will often work very well.  When fished in this manner, trout will strike quite hard, and usually
hook themselves.

There are times when trout are rolling on the surface and it seems impossible to take them
on anything. It is then that they are usually feeding on nymphs, just under the surface. I
remember one such time on the Housatonic River in Connecticut last summer. Just at dark, I
was standing knee deep in very fast water. Trout {34} were breaking all around me. I knew,
they were feeding on nymphs, and tried in every way to catch them. The water was so fast, it
was impossible to keep the nymph just the right depth below the surface. I tried every trick
that I knew, but could not get a strike. Finally reaching my hand in my pocket, I discovered
several large buckshot. Removing the nymph from the tip of the leader, I attached five of these
large shots, to the very tip of the leader, with a piece of 3x gut tippet about four inches
long. I connected the nymph to the leader about sixteen inches from the tip. Within the next
few minutes I took several nice trout, within rod's length of where I was standing. What actually
happened, the lead was so heavy that it immediately sank straight to the bottom, and my taut
line held the nymph suspended about two inches below the surface. The short gut between the
nymph and the leader allowed the nymph to quiver much as the natural was doing. All the various
common nymphs can be faithfully copied, by learning to tie the various styles of those herein
illustrated. Simply alter the sizes, and color combinations, according to those found in the
waters where you fish.

Remember nearly all the nymphs have flat bodies, and dark backs. The bodies may be flattened
by thoroughly lacquering them, and when nearly dried squeezing them flat with an ordinary pair
of pliers; or by {35} cutting a piece of quill the shape of the body from a turkey or goose
wing. Bind this on top of the hook for the foundation of the body, and build the body over
this. When finished, lacquer the entire body.

Most any body materials that are used for the making of other flies can be used; however, wool
is mostly used for nymphs.  Silk floss wound over a quill foundation and then lacquered, makes
a very smooth, realistic body.

{36}

THEIR CONSTRUCTION (SEE DIAGRAM 6)

Start tying silk (A) an eighth of an inch from the eye of the hook and wind closely down shank,
as previously done with bucktails, wet flies etc. Next cut a section (B) from a grey goose
wing feather about one eighth inch wide, and tie on top of the hook as Fig. 1.  This is to
make the tail and also the back of the nymph. Bend (B) back and take a turn or two with (A)
in front as Fig. 2. Tie in the ribbing (c) close to (B) Fig. 3. Next tie in body material (D)
close to (C) Fig. 4. Wool yarn makes the best body material for this style nymph. Now finish
the body as for a wet fly, Fig. 5, then pull (B) tightly over the top, finish off as Fig. 6.
This makes a sort of hard shell over the back. Next turn the hook upside down in the vise,
and lay {37} three horse hairs across, just in back of where the head is to be made, crisscross
(A) between the hairs to spread them and make them look like legs, and your nymph should look
like Fig. 7. Nymphs of this style as well as Figs. 8, 9, 10, 14 and 15 look more natural if
the bodies are flattened. Fig. 8 is tied nearly the same as Fig. 7, the difference being that
(C) and (D) are both wound over (B) about two-thirds of the length of the body, then (B) is
turned back, the body finished as before, (B) brought forward loosely to form the humpbacked
wing case, and (B) being cut off as was done with Fig. 6, and instead of the butt end of (B)
being cut off as was done  with Fig. 6 it is split by crisscrossing (A) through it to form
small wings as Fig. 8.  Fig. 9 is made in the same way except that several strands of peacock
herl is used for the dark back, tail, and feelers.

Fig. 10 is a very effective nymph, the body made entirely of natural raffia (soaked in water
before using), with black hair used for the tail and feelers The body coated with lacquer as
before mentioned and pressed flat when dry; paint the back with dark brown or black lacquer.

Fig. 11 is made by close wound palmer hackle cut off on dotted lines. Fig. 12 is a fur body,
made by spinning rabbit's fur or other fur on waxed tying silk and ribbing with gold; the tougher
this nymph looks the more effective it seems to be. Fig. 13, the Caddis {38} worm can be more
naturally reproduced with a common rubber band than any other way I know. Get a dirty, white,
rubber band about 1/8" wide, taper one end for  about 1/2".  Lay two horse hairs lengthwise
on top of the hook for the feelers, wind tying silk over them down the hook, tie in the rubber
band by the very tip of the taper, wind the tying silk back to the starting point, and be sure
that the tying silk is wound smoothly. If not, any roughness will show through the rubber band.
Wind the rubber band tightly to about 1/4" back of the eye. Wind back down and take one turn
under the horsehair at the tail end, wind up to the head and tie off with the tying silk. This
now makes three thicknesses of the rubber band. Form a large head with the tying silk, fasten
securely and you have a very realistic Caddis worm. Fig. 14 is tied about the same as Fig.
7, with a considerable amount of speckled mallard, and peacock herl used for both the front
and back feelers as well as the legs.

Fig. 15. The Damsel Nymph has a body of dark grey wool with a back of dark brown or black lacquer.
Wings, small red-brown wood duck breast feathers, feelers dark brown hackle, and a large black
head.

{39}

THE HELGRAMITE (SEE DIAGRAM 7)

The Helgramite Nymph, larva of the Dobson Fly, is such an excellent bass and trout food, that
the making of this nymph deserves special mention. As my personal way of making this particular
nymph differs considerably from those previously explained, I consider it advisable to go into
further details concerning the construction of this pattern.

I personally like the winged style. That is, with small imitation wings and horns, or feelers.
This represents the nymph in its final underwater stage, just before emerging from the water
as the Dobson Fly. I find black skunk tail the most satisfactory material for the body of this
nymph. Either light grey swan sides, or light grey pigeon breast feathers for the wing and legs.

{40}

First wind the waxed tying silk up the shank of the hook beginning opposite the barb. Clip
the fibers closely from a couple of hackle feathers. These are to form the horns. Bind these
hackle quills to the top of the hook, so that the tip ends project about 1 1/2" in front of
the eye. Take a bunch of black skunk tail about the size of a match and bind it to the top
of the hook, with tip ends towards the eye of the hook as in Diagram 7, Fig. 1. Next fold the
hair forward and bind down tightly as in Fig. 2. Again fold the hair back and tie down as in
{41} Fig. 3. Then again as in Fig. 4. Notice that each time the hair is folded back upon itself
and tied down, that it forms a segment of the body, and that each segment increases in size,
until your nymph looks like Fig. 5. At this stage turn the nymph over and tie a piece of light
grey feather about 1/8" wide across the bottom, separate the fibers with the tying silk to
form the legs. Now cut a small light grey pigeon feather with the centre quill, as dotted line
in Fig. 6. Give this a coat of clear lacquer: when dry, tie flat, on the back of the nymph
to form the first set of wings, as in Fig. 7. Cut another feather and treat the same way, tie
these slightly forward of the first set of wings, and you have a Dobson Nymph that is very
lifelike in appearance.

{42}

BASS FLIES AND FEATHER STREAMERS

It will appear obvious from a study of Diagram 8, page (43) that the tying of bass flies and
Feather Streamers differs so little from the tying of wet flies and bucktails that a detailed
description will be unnecessary.

Bass flies are little more than large trout lies, the principal difference being the feathers
that are used for the wings although the same feathers can be used as for trout flies. It is
customary with commercial tiers to use two whole feathers for the wings, or the tips of two
wings feathers, etc. Place the concave sides together and tie in the butt ends the same as
for a wet fly. Bass flies to be used as spinner flies, that is, flies to be used with a spinner
in front, should be tied on ring eyed hooks instead of hooks with turned down or turned up eyes.

{43}

{44}

Certain patterns of these flies have for a long time been famous as salmon flies in northern
New England and Canada and the past few years have seen them steadily growing in popularity
with anglers of Connecticut, especially for Rainbow Trout. The feathers {45} that are used
for wings are saddle hackles, and from four to eight feathers are used, hackles of the same
size are selected, the tip ends placed even, and the concave sides of those used for the left
side are placed next to the concave sides of those used for the right side, in other words,
both the right and left side of the wing will be convex, or outside of the feather. Any of
the standard pattern flies can be tied as streamers. Some of the patterns however, are very
elaborate flies; the Supervisor, for instance, has wings of light blue with shorter feathers
of green on each side, with peacock herl along each wing, polar bear hair, jungle cock shoulders,
a silver body, and a red tag. This fly was developed a few years ago by Mr. Joseph Stickney,
Supervisor of Wardens, State of Maine, to imitate the smelt, a natural salmon food. The original
Supervisor did not have the jungle cock or the peacock heal. Mr. Stickney suggested the addition
of these feathers to me last year, and I believe that this is now the approved dressing.

{46}

{47}

FAMOUS BUCKTAIL AND FEATHER  STREAMERS

SUPERVISOR: WINGS, Blue saddle hackle with polar bear hair, and peacock herl down each side.
CHEEKS, green hackle tip and jungle cock. BODY silver. TAG, red wool.

TIGER: (light) WINGS, brownish yellow bucktail or red squirrel tail. BODY yellow chenille.
TAG, gold. TAIL, barred wood duck. CHEEKS, jungle cock. THROAT, scarlet.

TIGER: (dark) WINGS, yellow bucketful. BODY peacock herl. Short red fin.

GREGG'S DEMON: WINGS, grizzly saddle hackle dyed brown. BODY, silver ribbed with gold. CHEEKS,
jungle cock. TAIL, barred wood duck. TOPPING, golden pheasant crest. HACKLE, Orange.

JUNGLE PRINCESS: WINGS grizzly saddle hackle dyed yellow with large jungle cock. CHEEKS, blue
chatterer. BODY gold tinsel. HACKLE, white.

GRIZZLY GREY: WINGS, grizzly saddle hackles. CHEEKS, jungle cock. TAIL, orange. BODY, silver
tinsel. HACKLE, white bucktail.

{48}

HIGHLAND BELLE: WINGS orange saddle hackles inside, grizzly saddle hackles outside. CHEEKS,
jungle cock. BODY, gold tinsel ribbed with silver tinsel. HACKLE, white bucktail.

SPENCER BAY SPECIAL: WINGS blue saddle hackles inside with furnace saddle hackles outside.
CHEEKS, jungle cock. TAIL, golden pheasant tippet. BODY, silver tinsel ribbed with oval silver
tinsel. HACKLE, yellow and blue mixed.

BLACK GHOST: WINGS, white saddle hackle. BODY, black silk floss ribbed with silver. CHEEKS,
jungle cock. HACKLE, yellow.

GREY GHOST: WINGS, grey saddle hackle with peacock herl and white bucktail. BODY, orange floss
ribbed with gold. CHEEKS, silver pheasant feather and jungle cock.

BROWN GHOST: WINGS, brown saddle hackle. BODY, brown floss ribbed with gold. CHEEKS, jungle
cock. TOPPING, golden pheasant crest. TAIL, golden pheasant crest. HACKLE, yellow.

WARDEN'S WORRY: WINGS one red and one grizzly saddle hackle. HACKLE, yellow, tied very full.

WHITE MARIBOU: WINGS, white caribou. CHEEKS, large jungle cock and small red feather. TOPPING,
golden pheasant crest. Two complete caribou feathers can be used, or sections of the feathers,
depending upon the size of the hook. Size 4 long shank hook is a good size to tie them for salmon.

{49}

FLOATING BUGS AND THEIR CONSTRUCTION

A style of fishing becoming more popular each year is that of Fly Rod fishing with Floating
Bugs. These Bugs represents the large moth, butterfly, etc., and are constructed of a large
variety of materials. Some have cork bodies. Some have Balsa Wood bodies.  Others all hair
bodies. Bodies covered with chenille, and other materials. One of the easiest to make and I
believe one of the most successful styles, is entirely constructed from the body hair of the
deer, reindeer, or caribou. All of these hairs are rather coarse and hollow consequently are
very buoyant, and when properly made into a copy of the living insect, they have a soft, lifelike
body that appears very natural when taken by a fish. These soft bodied Bugs are not so apt
to be ejected before the Angler has time to set the hook, as are those with hard bodies.

{50}

Although the object of this book is to teach the Angler how to tie his own flies a few words
in regards to the writer's personal experiences in using these Bugs might not be amiss at this
time. Floating Bugs are mostly tied on large size hooks and generally used for {51} bass. However,
I have had a great deal of luck and many pleasant experiences with them tied as small as a
#14 Model Perfect hook, and used with a 4x Leader. The small sizes will take many large trout,
and are readily accepted by all pan fish. When fishing in still waiters with the Floating Bugs,
whether it be for bass, pickerel, trout or pan fish I use a light leader, treated so that it
will sink. I cast to a likely looking spot, beside an old stump along lily pads, or to an opening
in the lily pads themselves. I let the Bug hit the water with quite a splash, as a living moth
of the same size would, and there I let it lie, absolutely motionless, as though stunned by
the blow. By all means do not be impatient, let the Bug lie perfectly still for two or three
minutes, and then simply move the tip of your rod just enough to cause the Bug to quiver on
the surface. Again let it lie perfectly still for a minute or two; usually about the second
time the Bug is made to quiver you can expect a strike, and when a big bass comes after one
of these Bugs, he comes full of action. When fishing fast water, I fish them exactly as I would
a dry fly, upstream or up and across the current. My personal choice for color is the natural
brownish grey body hair from either the deer, reindeer, or caribou. Wings, tail and body all
the same natural color. I tie this pattern from size 2/0 Model perfect hook down to size 14,
and us {52} the larger sizes for bass and pickerel, and the smaller sizes for trout and pan
fish. I remember one very pleasant experience that happened in northern Maine three years ago.
There is a small, deep, spring fed lake of about ten acres in area, completely surrounded by
wilderness; this lake had been stocked with, Rainbow Trout and closed to all fishing for five
years. I was fortunate in being there about two months after it had been opened to fishing
and was invited to try my luck, after first being advised that although some very nice catches
were regularly being taken on a Streamer Fly fished deep, also on live bait and worms with
a spinner, no one had even been able to take fish on the surface. I arrived at this lake about
one hour before dark, and it was one of those evenings when the water was actually boiling
with rising trout. In fact never before or since have I seen so many fish breaking water at
the same time. I immediately made up my mind to take fish on the surface. I began fishing with
a small spider, and changed fly after fly for the next half hour with the same results as had
been experienced by other dry fly fishermen. In desperation and with darkness fast approaching
I tied on a size 4 Grey Bug and cast about thirty feet from shore. The Bug hit the water with
quite a splash and didn't even as much as put down one fish, and several continued to {53}
rise from within a few inches to a few feet from where the Bug landed. I waited a couple of
minutes and gave the Bug a little twitch, nothing happened, again I twitched and again nothing
happened.  I began to believe I was stumped when again the Bug was moved ever so slightly for
the fifth time, and remember this was at least seven minutes after it first hit the water.
A fish struck. In a few minutes I landed a 2 1/4 pound Rainbow. Before darkness had brought
the day to a close I had landed three more beautiful Rainbows averaging 2 pounds each. I had
never since had the opportunity to fish in this beautiful little lake. Some day I hope to return,
and again try, and I believe succeed in taking these beautiful Rainbow Trout on the conventional
dry fly. However, this one little experience proved conclusively to me the absolute necessity
of patience in fishing Floating Bugs.

FLOATING BUGS: THEIR CONSTRUCTION (SEE DIAGRAM 9)

First let us begin by making the most simple; that is, one that has the Body, Wings, and Tail,
all of the same material and color. Follow the illustrations carefully and even your first
attempt will be a masterpiece.

{54}

Although I use well waxed 00 tying silk, you will find that regular sewing silk size A will
work best on your first attempt. First wax your thread thoroughly and take a few turns around
the shank of the hook and tie in a small bunch of hairs for the tail, as in Diagram 9, Fig.
1, page (55). We will assume that we are using regular deer hair cut from the hide. Next clip
a small bunch of hairs, about the size of a match, close to the hide. You will notice there
is some fuzz mixed with the hair at the base close to the skin, pick out the fuzz and place
the butts of the hairs under the hook as in Fig. 2, Take a couple of loose turns with the tying
silk, hold the tips of the hair with the thumb and finger of the left hand, and pull the tying
silk down tight. You will notice that the hairs spin around the hook and the butt ends will
stand out pretty much at right angles to the hook, as in Fig. 3. Cut off the tip end of the
hairs on the dotted line, press the hairs back tightly, apply a drop of water-proof lacquer
to the base of the hairs and the hook, and repeat the same process of tying on a small bunch
of hair, each time pressing it back tightly. Remember this is important, because the hair must
be as close together as possible to make a firm, smooth, buoyant body.

{55}

When you have built the body up until it looks something like Fig. 4, remove it from the vise
and with a sharp pair of scissors trim and shape it until it looks {56} like Figs. 5 and 6.
At this stage you should have 3/16" of the shank of the hook left just behind the eye, where
you will tie on the wings. Cover this bare hook with the well waxed tying silk, and lay a bunch
of hair on top of the hook for wings as Fig. 7. Crisscross the tying silk around the wings
and the hook until they are securely tied together. Place several coats of lacquer over he
junction of the wings and hook, to more securely bind them in place. Lacquer the entire wings
if you wish and when they have partially dried, press them flat, spread them, trim them as
Fig. 8, and your Bug is completed.

Any combination of color may be used, different colored wings and tail, different colored rings
in the body. White body with red tail and wings is a good pattern. Yellow body, black wings
and tail another. Various feather combinations can be used for wings and tall. Create your
own designs, and develop your patterns.

CORK BODIED BASS BUGS (SEE DIAGRAM 10)

These high floaters are easy to make and may be tied on most any size hook desired. Kinked
shank hooks should be used to prevent  the body from turning on the {57} hook. Colored lacquer
or enamel can be used to decorate the bodies, and eyes can be either painted on, or regular
small glass eyes inserted and held in place with water-proof glue or lacquer. Any of the fancy
feathers that are used for regular bass flies can be used for wings. Hair or feathers can be
used for tails, etc. Let us first make one of these cork bodied Bugs on a size 1/0 hook. Take
a 1/2" cork cylinder and with a razor blade shape it roughly as Diagram 10, Figs. 1 and 2.
Then with a piece of 00 sandpaper held in the right hand and the cylinder in the left it is
a very simple matter to give the body a nice smooth, shapely finish. Next cut a small V out
of the body as in Fig. 3. This is easier to fit to the hook and easier to cement securely than
simply making a slit in the cork. Press the V slit over the hook as in Fig. 4. Apply cement
or lacquer liberally to the inside of the V slot, and to the hook shank. Press the piece that
was removed securely back into place, bind tightly with string, as in Fig. 5, and let set over
night. Next day when the cement has thoroughly dried and the body is permanently fastened to
the hook, remove the string and with the sandpaper touch up any rough places on the body, and
give a coat of lacquer or enamel of the desired color.

{58}

When the body enamel has dried, take a pair of feathers for wings (whole feathers that have
the quill in the centre, same as are used for regular bass fly wings are best), and with the
{59} tying silk bind these fast to the top side of the shoulders as in Fig. 6. Tie on a tail
close to the body, paint on the eyes, paint any other color or designs you wish on the body,
and the Bug is completed.

{60}

{61}

ANGLER'S KNOTS

Figs. 1, 2 and 3 in Diagram 11, page (60) show a very convenient way to tie a dropper loop
in the leader; roll the gut between thumb and finger at (A) Fig. 1, next invert loop (B) through
(C) Figs. 2 and 3.

Figs. 4, 5, and 6 make the best knot for or a loop in the end of a leader, gut snells etc.
Pull loop (C) through loop (B) Figs. 5 and 6.

Figs. 7, 8, and 9 are about the easiest and most secure knots for making leaders, the ends
are in the centre of the finished knot and can be clipped close.

Figs. 10, 11, and 12, the figure eight knot, is the best for tying flies to the leader, it
won't slip, and the pull is in line with the hook shank.

{62}

MY FAVORITE FLIES

Quite frequently I am asked which fly I like the best, or which particular patterns I would
choose should I carry only a few flies with me on a trip. That is rather a difficult question
to answer.  The season, the type of fishing and location must be taken into consideration.

There must be some reason for so many hundreds of patterns. I hardly believe that any half
dozen patterns can be used with constant success throughout the season, even in one particular
locality. There are times, when fish are feeding, that they will take anything; again one may
change fly after fly without success, when finally a fly will be tried that will take fish
on every cast. Suppose that particular fly wasn't included in the chosen few, the answer is
obvious.

However, I will endeavor to choose six patterns each of the various styles, and to give my
reasons for their choice, but here I assure you there will always be many more patterns in
my fly box for further trial, after I have exhausted my favorite six.

Beginning with dry flies, my first choice would be {63} a Quill Gordon, on a size 16 hook.
This fly closely represents the numerous duns that are on or about the water, to some extent,
during the entire season. I have little faith in color in the dry fly, except light or dark
shades. I do believe that the size and shape have a great deal more to do with the success
of a dry fly than color. I have proven to my own satisfaction that a Quill Gordon sparsely
dressed as it should be, but tied with a black hackle and yellow mallard wings, is just as
successful as the customary dressing.

My second choice would be the Red Ant. Although this fly belongs to the order Hymenoptera,
it can be used when many of the Diptera order are on the water, such as Cowdung, Blue bottle,
Bee, etc. This family all have flat wings and make an entirely different appearance than the
aforementioned Quill Gordon. I tie the Red Ant on a size 14 hook. I build the body first of
red silk floss, shape it like the body of an ant, give it a couple of coats of clear lacquer
and let it dry hard and shiny. This body will reflect light, much as the natural insect. I
then tie on two hackle tips for wings. Have them about as long as the hook, spread them so
they are at about a 30 degree angle from the body and very flat. I then use a brown saddle
hackle with fibers about 3/4" long for legs. I put on only two or three turns of the hackle,
and then clip off all of the top and bottom hackles, leaving only about six fibers sticking
{64} straight out on each side. This fly will float very close to the water, and because of
its sparse dressing, slightly heavy body because of the lacquer, it is not a good floater.
It also has the disadvantage of being hard to see. However, it is still my second choice, and
properly dressed, and fished with a very fine leader, will take many nice fish.

My third choice is the Fan Wing Royal Coachman. This fly was never supposed to represent any
particular family but I believe it is taken by fish for the Lepidoptera, large-winged moths
and butterflies. It seems to be very successful when these are about in the evening.

My fourth choice is the Furnace Spider. This fly I tie on a size 16 short shank hook, by winding
only about three turns of a furnace saddle hackle, with fibers about three fourths of an inch
long.  Tied in this manner, without any body or tail, the fly will alight on the water with
the hook down, and looked at from beneath, against the light, only the little black spot will
be noticeable.  This I believe represents some of the order Coleoptera (beetles) and also the
small black gnat (Empidae). I know if no other ways to tie the Black Gnat small enough to represent
the natural insect, and even on the very smallest hook, the artificial is usually many times
larger than the natural. The small black centre of the furnace saddle hackle tied in this manner
seems to represent the size of the natural very {65} closely. This fly is a very good floater
and an excellent fly when trout are feeding on those small insects.

My fifth choice is the Grannon. This fly is of the order of Trihoptera, and has different shaped
wings than any of those previously mentioned, the wings being quite full and roof shaped. 
It is on the water a good part of the season, and can be used when other flies with this shape
wing are about, such as the alder fly, cinnamon fly, etc.

My next and sixth choice of dry fly would be the Brown Palmer, made on a size 12 long shank
hook with a full body of peacock herl, and palmer hackle, wound not too full. This I believe
is taken by the trout for many of the caterpillars.

My personal choice of these six patterns should now appear quite obvious, should it be necessary
for me to limit myself to such a small selection. I have selected one each of the six most
prominent orders, and should any one of the hundreds of families of these orders be in prominence
on the water, I would at least have the correct size or color.

My choice of the standard pattern wet flies, Feather Streamers, Bucktail Streamers, and nymphs
would be a little more difficult. I am a firm believer that color plays a very important part
in the dressing of wet flies, as well as size and style. I offer my personal choice of these
styles because of the consistency with which they {66} have taken fish for me during many years
of fishing all parts of the country.

I do not hesitate to say that I have taken more trout, of all kinds, on a brown hackle with
peacock herl body, than any of the other common wet fly patterns. This is probably because
I have used it more. I do believe that in the north, and especially for brook trout, a fly
with a little red in it is more productive.  Therefore, for northern fishing I would select
Royal Coachman, Parmachene Belle, and Montreal. Other favorite flies that are good most anywhere
in North America are Grizzly King, Queen O'Waters; Cahill, and Grey Hackle.

Feather Streamers and Hair Streamers are being more extensively used each year. Many authorities
are of firm conviction that these flies unquestionably represent small minnows, upon which
the fish are in the habit of feeding. This may be true, but I have seen many rubber, metal
and composition minnows, that were exact replicas of the naturals, both as to color and size,
and they would not take fish as would the Feather or Hair Streamers, fished in the same waters
at the same time.

Most of my experience with Feather Streamers and also Hair Streamers has been for Landlocked
Salmon and Rainbow Trout, in big waters. So I will list these according to the way they have
produced for me. The {67} Black Ghost on a #4 long shank hook has been my most successful Feather
Streamer. Probably because its white streamers are easily seen by the fish. It will most always
raise fish, even if not the proper fly to make them strike. The Grey Ghost is another, and
one of the most popular streamers in the North for Landlocked Salmon. This fly, as well as
the Supervisor, Spencer Bay Special and numerous other flies of this style, were originally
designed by their creators to represent the smelt, a favorite food of the salmon. These flies
vary so in their color combinations that I wonder what the fish do take them for. However,
I do know that a Grey Ghost will work when a Supervisor will not, and vice versa.  One is grey
and the other is blue. When fishing in lakes with a Feather Streamer for trout I have consistently
had most luck with a creation of my own, Gregg's Demon. This fly was never tied to represent
anything, but I have taken many nice fish on it, and have seen little fellows hardly as long
as the fly itself chase it, and try their best to bite it in two. There is just something about
it that has "fish appeal."

A Brown Bucktail with a silver body on a #6 3x long shank hook rates number one in Bucktail
streamers. Another excellent fly that has been a favorite for years, is a Yellow and Red Bucktail,
with a silver body, the red only a narrow streak through the centre. This fly has recently
been named "Mickey Finn." A red and {68} white, with silver or gold body is a real good pattern
where there are brook trout, and tied on a large hook is very good for bass.

I use one with all white bucktail and silver body, the same as I do a Black Ghost, for locating
fish. I find they will most always show their presence, one way or another when a white fly
is cast near them.

An all yellow with black streak in the centre same as the "Mickey Finn" is another very good
combination. This is an excellent pickerel and bass fly. In fact, most any of these Feather
Streamers and Bucktail Streamers tied on larger hooks, and used with or without a spinner,
are excellent lures for both bass and pickerel.

Nymphs: I have explained elsewhere my liking these lures, and can say
little more except that I always carry the following color combinations
in various sizes. All tied according to styles illustrated in the
diagrams. Cream Belly with Dark Back; Yellow Belly with Black Ribs and
Dark Back; Green Belly with Dark Back; Grey Belly and Gold Ribs with
Dark Back; Brown Belly and Gold Ribs with Black Back; Orange Belly and
Black Ribs with Dark Back. Green Wool
  Blood Red
  None

  Dark Stone
  None
  None
  Yellow Silk
  Grey Wool
  Grey
  Dark Grey

  Dr. Breck
  None
  Grey Speckled
  None
  Silver
  Scarlet
  White and Scarlet

  Dorset
  None
  Furnace
  None
  Green Wool
  Furnace
  Teal

  Downlooker
  None
  None
  None
  Brown Floss
  Brown, tied palmer
  Brown and black mottled turkey

  Deer Fly
  None
  Black
  None
  Bright Green
  White
  White

  Dusty Miller
  None
  Grey speckled
  Gold Wire
  Grey wool mohair
  Grey
  Dirty Grey Turkey

  Dark Miller
  None
  Br. Hackle
  Brown Silk
  Scarlet
  None
  Yellow and black

  Emerald
  Gold
  None
  Gold
  Lt. Green
  t. Brown
  Brown Mottled

  Evening Dun
  None
  Lt. Blue
  None
  Buff Wool
  Lt. Blue
  Starling

  Epting
  None
  Gey speckled
  None
  Red, orange, & yel. chenille
  Black
  Grey Speckled

  Female Beaverkill
  Yellow chenille
  Grey speckled
  None
  Grey silk or wool
  Brown
  Dark Grey

  Female Grannon
  Green
  None
  None
  Brown Floss
  Partridge
  Brown mottled partridge

  Fem. March Br.
  None
  None
  Yellow Silk
  Dk. brown floss
  None
  Brown mottled turkey or grouse

  Ferguson
  Scarlet yel. and herl
  None
  None
  None
  None
  Mottled turkey tail, yellow and red

  Fern Fly
  None
  None
  None
  Orange Floss
  Lt. Red
  Dark Starling

  Feted Green
  None
  Green
  None
  Green
  Green
  Green

  {73}

  Fiery Brown
  gold
  Golden tippet
  Gold
  Redish brown mohair or wool
  R. I. Red
  Bronze

  Flights Fancy
  None
  Ginger
  Gold
  Pale Yel. Floss
  Ginger
  Lt. grey

  Francis Fly
  None
  None
  Red Silk
  Peacock Herl
  None
  Grizzly Dun

  Furnace Dun
  Gold
  Furnace
  None
  Br. & orange wool
  Furnace
  Dark Starling

  Furnace Hackle
  None
  None
  None
  Peacock Herl
  Furnace
  None

  Gen. Hooker
  None
  None
  Yellow
  Green Floss
  Brown
  Mottled grey and brown

  Great Dun
  Brown hairs
  Gold
  Gold
  Brown Floss
  Brown
  Dark Grey

  Grey Bi-Visible
  None
  None
  Silver or None
  None
  Grizzly
  None

  Green Nymph
  None
  Green
  Gold
  Green Wool
  Green
  None

  Grey Spider
  None
  None
  None
  Grey
  Grizzly
  None

  Gld. Guinea
  Gold
  Scarlet
  Gold
  Red wool
  Red
  Guinea Fowl

  Henshall
  None
  Peacock Herl
  None
  Peacock Herl
  Lt. Grey
  Grey Speckled

  Hod
  Gold
  None
  Gold
  Pea-Green
  Dark Ginger
  Hen Pheasant

  Hofland Fancy
  None
  Brown
  None
  Red (dark)
  Brown
  Brown and Yellow

  Hoskins
  None
  Golden tippet
  None
  Lemon
  Blue Dun
  Woodcock

  House Fly
  None
  None
  None
  Dun Condor Quill
  Black
  Dark Starling

  Howell
  Gold
  Scarlet
  Gold
  Peacock Herl
  Claret
  White tip turkey tail

  Ibis and White
  Gold
  Red & White
  Gold
  Red floss
  Rd/ & White
  Red and White

  {76}

  Imbrie
  Gold
  Golden tippet
  Gold
  White
  Lt. Red
  Dark Starling

  Indian Yellow
  None
  Ginger
  Yellow
  Lt. Brown
  Ginger
  Goose

  Iron Blue Dun
  None
  Yellow
  None
  None
  Blue Dun
  Bluish Black

  Iron Blue Quill
  None
  Blue Dun
  None
  Quill
  Blue Dun lt.
  Blue Dun Hkl. Tip

  Iron Blue Nymph
  None
  Honey Dun
  None
  None
  Honey Dun
  None

  July Dun
  None
  Dun
  None
  Yellow
  Dark Dun
  Starling

  Joe Killer
  None
  Barred woodduck
  None
  Silver
  Short red bucktail
  Yel. & white peacock swd. & jungle cock

  Jenni
  None
  Lavendar or  blue
  Gold
  Yellow floss
  Scarlet
  Lavendar or lt. blue

  Jock Scott
  Black silk
  Yellow & Scarlet
  White floss
  Yellow floss
  Grouse & Guinea
  Yel. & grey speckled  scarlet & jungle cock

  Jennie Spinner
  Orange and brown
  Cream hackle
  None
  White horse hair
  Silver Blue
  Silver blue hackle tips or None

  Jungle Cock
  None
  Scarlet
  Gold or white
  Blue grey fur
  Claret or blk.
  Dark brown and jungle cock

  Katy-did
  None
  Black Hairs
  Gold Wire
  Green floss
  Green
  Green

  King O'Waters
  Gold
  Grey Speckled
  Gold
  Red floss
  Brown
  Grey Speckled

  Kingdon
  Gold
  None
  Green floss
  White floss
  Dark
  Woodcock

  King Fisher
  None
  None
  None
  Silver
  Lt. Blue
  Kingfisher

  Kitson
  Gold
  Black Hairs
  Gold
  Yellow
  Claret
  Yellow with black cheeks

  La Branche
  Gold
  Grey
  Gold
  Blue Grey Fur
  Blue Dun
  Grey

  Lady Doctor
  Gold and red wool
  Two yellow hackle
  None
  Yellow Wool
  Yel. tied palm.
  Polar bear and Black hair and jungle cock

  Lady Beaverkill
  Yellow chenile
  Grey Speckled
  None
  Grey (dark)
  Brown
  Dark Grey

  {77}

  Lake Edward
  None
  Golden Crest
  Gold
  Claret Wool
  Claret
  Pea Green

  Lake George
  None
  White and scarlet
  Gold
  Scarlet floss
  White
  White & Scarlet

  Lake Green
  None
  None
  Green Silk
  Canary yellow
  Ginger
  Teal Breast

  Laramie
  None
  Scarlet
  Silver
  Scarlet floss
  Dark Blue
  Grey Mottled

  Lt. Stone
  None
  Grey
  Yellow Silk
  Grey
  Grey
  Grey

  Little Marryat
  None
  Brown
  None
  Lt. grey or herl
  Brown
  Dark grey

  Ld.
  Gold
  Golden tippet
  Gold
  Orange Wool
  Black
  None

  Orange Dun
  None
  None
  None
  Orange Wool
  Dk. Brown
  Lt. Brown

  Olive Nymph
  None
  Olive
  None
  Mot. Br. wool
  Olive
  None

  Orange Miller
  None
  None
  Gold
  Orange floss
  White
  White

  Orange Sedge
  None
  None
  Gold
  Orange floss
  Brown tied palmer
  Red, Brown

  Oriole
  None
  Yellow
  Gold
  Black floss
  Black
  Yellow

  {79}

  Oak
  None
  Black
  None
  Orange floss
  Brown
  Dark grey and Lt. Brown mottled

  Pale Blue Dun
  None
  Pale Blue
  None
  Pale Blue Fur
  Pale Blue
  Pale blue hackle tips or None

  Pale Buff
  None
  Pale Buff
  None
  Pale Buff Wool
  Pale Buff
  Pale Buff

  Pale Eve. Dun
  None
  None
  Br. silk or None
  Lemon floss
  Lt. blue grey or grizzly
  Lt. Blue Grey

  Pale Sulphur
  None
  Pale Yel.
  Ginger
  None

  Pheasant
  None
  None
  Gold
  Yellow floss
  Ginger
  Bronze

  Pheasant, Gold
  None
  Golden tippet
  Gold Wire
  Gold
  Pheasant
  Pheasant, Wing

  Pheasant, Silver
  None
  Golden tippet
  Silver Wire
  Silver
  Pheasant
  Pheasant, Wing

  Pheasant & Yel.
  None
  Golden tippet
  Gold
  Yellow floss
  Pheasant
  Pheasant, Wing

  Pink Lady
  Gold
  Pheasant
  Gold
  Pink floss
  Brown
  Grey Speckled

  Pink Wickhams
  None
  Brown
  None
  Pink floss
  Brown tied palmer
  Grey Speckled

  Polka
  Gold
  Scarlet
  Gold
  Scarlet floss
  Scarlet
  Guinea

  Poor Mans Fly
  None
  Ginger
  None
  Brown Wool
  Ginger
  Grey Speckled

  {80}

  Portland
  None
  Grey Speckled
  Gold
  Red floss
  Red
  Teal breast

  Preston's Fancy
  None
  Brown Hairs
  None
  Gold
  Brown
  Grey with white spot

  Priest
  None
  Red Ibis
  Silber
  Silver
  Badger
  None

  Prime Gnat
  None
  None
  None
  Brown
  Brown
  Dark Grey

  Professor
  Gold
  Scarlet
  Gold
  Yellow floss
  Brown
  Grey Speckled

  Quaker
  None
  None
  Silver
  Grey Wool
  Grey
  Grey Speckled

  Queen O'Waters
  None
  None
  Gold
  Orange floss
  Br. Palmer
  Grey Speckled

  Quill Gordon
  None
  Tan speckled
  Gold Wire or None
  Quill
  Blue Dun
  Tan speckled wood duck

  Raven
  None
  Golden tippet
  None
  Black chenille
  Black
  Black Crow

  Red Ant
  Herl
  None
  None
  Red floss
  Brown
  Dark Grey

  Red Fox
  None
  Speckled Teal
  None
  Redish Brown or wool
  None
  None

  Red Quill
  None
  Dark Red
  None
  Red Quill
  Dark Red
  Med. Starling

  Red Ibis
  None
  Scarlet
  Gold
  Scarlet floss
  Scarlet
  Scarlet

  Red Spinner
  Gold
  Brown Hairs
  Gold
  Red
  Brown
  Dark Grey

  Red Tag
  Red Silk
  Red
  None
  Peacock Herl
  Brown
  None

  Rd. Bod. Ashy
  None
  None
  None
  Red Wool
  Brown Palmer
  None

  Ross McKenney
  Gold
  Barred wood duck
  Gold
  Brown Wool
  None
  White and red bucktail and jungle cock

  Royal Coachman
  Gold
  Golden tippet
  None
  Peacock herl with scarlet red band
  Hackle Brown
  White

  Rube Wood
  Red
  Grey Speckled
  None
  White Chenille
  Lt. Brown
  Grey Speckled

  Ruben Wood
  None
  Tan speckled
  None
  White Chenille
  Lt. Brown
  Tan speckled

  Saltoun
  None
  Ginger
  Silver
  Black floss
  Black
  Lt. Starling

  Sand-Fly
  None
  Lt. Ginger
  None
  Copper Brown
  Lt. Ginger
  Yellowish Brown

  Sassy Cat
  None
  Scarlet
  None
  Peacock Herl
  Yellow
  Yellow, scarlet cheeks

  {81}

  Seth Green
  None
  None
  Yellow
  Green floss
  Claret
  Grey speckled

  Seth Green Turkey
  None
  None
  Yellow
  Green floss
  Brown
  Brown mottled

  Shad Fly
  None
  None
  Green
  Peacock Herl
  None
  Brown mottled

  Shoemaker
  None
  Tan speckled
  None
  Pink & Grey
  Brown
  Mottled Woodcock

  Silver Doctor
  None
  Yel. blue green and red
  None
  Silver
  Blue & Guinea
  Brown, red, blue, green and yellow

  Silver Horns
  None
  None
  None
  Copper floss
  Grouse
  None

  Silver Sedge
  None
  None
  None
  Silver
  Brown Palmer
  Brown

  Silver Stock
  None
  Grey Speckled
  None
  Silver
  Brown
  Teal breast

  Soldier Palmer
  None
  None
  Gold
  Red Wool
  Brown Palmer
  None

  Spent Gnat
  None
  Brown
  Peacock herl
  Wt. Floss or Quill
  None
  Blue Hkl. tips

  Sedge, light
  None
  None
  None
  Pale Buff wool
  Ginger
  Hen pheasant

  Sniper & Yel.
  None
  None
  None
  Pale Yel. floss
  Snipe
  None

  Stebbins
  None
  Grey Speckled
  None
  Peacock Herl
  Grouse
  Dark Starling

  Stone
  None
  Grey
  Yellow
  Grey Wool
  Grey
  Grey

  Sunset
  Green chenille
  None
  None
  Yellow chenille
  Yellow
  White

  Swiftwater
  None
  Grey Speckled
  None
  Peacock herl
  Brown
  White

  Teal & Black
  None
  Golden tippet
  None
  Black wool
  Black
  Teal breast

  Teal & Orange
  Gold
  Golden tippet
  Gold
  Orange wool
  Olive
  Teal breast

  Teal & Gold
  None
  Golden tippet
  None
  Gold
  Dk. Brown
  Golden tippet

  Tippet & Silver
  Silver
  Golden tippet
  Silver
  Silver
  Badger
  Golden tippet

  Tootle Bug
  Blue
  Scarlet
  None
  Orange & Yel.
  Br. palmer
  Brown Mottled

  Tups Indispensable
  None
  Honey Dun
  None
  Yellow
  Honey Dun
  None

  Turkey Brown
  None
  None
  Red
  Brown
  Brown
  Brown

  Turkey Professor
  Gold
  Red
  None
  Yellow floss
  Brown
  Brown mottled

  Van Patten
  None
  Scarlet
  Gold
  White
  Brown
  Grey speckled

  Varient, Gold
  None
  None
  None
  Gold
  Blue Dun
  Starling

  Water Cricket
  None
  None
  Black
  Orange
  Black
  None

  Watson's Fancy
  Gold
  Golden tippet
  Gold
  Red & Blk. wool
  Black
  Black hackle tips

  Welshman's Button
  None
  None
  None
  Peacock Herl
  Furnace
  Landrail

  Western Bee
  None
  None
  None
  Yellow & Black chenille
  Brown
  Dark Grey

  Whirling Blue Dun
  Gold
  Ginger
  None
  Blue Grey Fur
  Ginger
  Blue Grey

  White Hackle
  None
  None
  Silver
  White floss
  White
  None

  White Miller
  None
  None
  Silver
  White floss
  White
  White

  White Moth
  Silver
  None
  None
  White Chenille
  White
  White

  Wickham's Fancy
  None
  Brown hairs
  None
  Gold
  Br. palmer
  Grey

  Wickham Pink
  None
  Red
  None
  Red & Gold
  Lt. Reddish
  Landrail

  Widow
  None
  None
  White
  Purple Floss
  Black
  Black

  Willow
  None
  None
  Yellow
  Green
  Brown
  Dark Grey

  Wilkson
  None
  None
  None
  Orange
  Orange
  Teal breast

  Witch Gold
  Gold
  Red Ibis
  Gold
  Grey Wool
  Badger
  None

  Whitechurch Dun
  None
  Grey Speckled
  None
  Yellow floss
  Ginger
  Lt. Grey

  White Wickhams
  None
  Brown Hairs
  None
  White floss
  White, palmer
  Grey

  {83}

  Woodcock & Gold
  None
  Golden tippet
  Silver
  Gold
  Ginger
  Mottled Woodcock

  Woodcock & Grn.
  None
  Golden tippet
  Silver
  Green wool
  Green
  Mottled Woodcock

  Woodcock & Red
  None
  Golden tippet
  Silver
  Red wool
  Reddish brown
  Mottled Woodcock

  Woodcock & Yellow
  None
  Golden tippet
  Silver
  Yellow wool
  Woodcock
  Mottled Woodcock

  Worm Fly
  None
  None
  None
  Peacock Herl
  Ginger
  None

  Yel. Bi-visible
  None
  None
  None
  Yellow wool
  Yel. and white palmer
  None

  Yel. Coachman
  None
  None
  None
  Peacock Herl
  Brown
  Yellow

  Yel. Dun
  None
  None
  None
  Yel. wool
  Honey Dun
  Lt. Starling

  Yel. Hackle
  None
  None
  Gold
  Yellow floss
  Yellow
  None

  Yel. Professor
  Gold
  Scarlet
  Gold
  Yellow floss
  Brown
  Yellow Speckled

  Yel. May
  None
  Yel. Speckled
  Gold or black
  Yellow floss
  Yellow
  Yellow Speckled

  Yel. Miller
  None
  None
  Gold
  Yel. & Herl
  White
  White

  Yel. Spider
  None
  Yellow
  None
  Yellow
  Yel. (long)
  None

  Yel. Sally
  None
  Yellow
  Gold
  Yellow
  Yellow
  Yellow

  Zulu
  Gold
  Red
  None
  Peacock Herl
  Black
  None

The Barnes Sports Library

This library of practical sports books covers fundamentals, techniques, coaching and playing
hints and equipment for each sport.  Leading coaches and players have been selected to write
these books, so each volume is authoritative and based upon actual experience.  Photographs
or drawings, or both, illustrate techniques, equipment and play.

  ARCHERY
  by Reichart & Keasey

  BAIT CASTING
  by Gilmer Robinson

  BASEBALL
  by Daniel E. Jessee

  BASKETBALL
  by Charles C. Murphy

  BASKETBALL FOR GIRLS
  by Meissner & Meyers

  BASKETBALL OFFICIATING
  by Dave Tobey

  BETTER BADMINTON
  by Jackson & Swan

  BICYCLING
  by Ruth and Raymond Benedict

  BOWLING FOR ALL
  by Falcaro & Goodman

  BOXING
  by Edwin L. Haislet

  FENCING
  by Joseph Vince

  FIELD HOCKEY FOR GIRLS
  by Josephine T. Lees

  FLY CASTING
  by Gilmer Robinson

  FOOTBALL
  by W. Glenn Killinger

  GOLF
  by Patty Berg

  HANDBALL
  by Bernath E. Phillips

  HOW TO TIE FLIES
  by E. C. Gregg

  ICE HOCKEY
  by Edward Jeremiah

  JIU-JITSU
  by Frederick P. Lowell

  LACROSSE
  by Tad Stanwick

  LAWN GAMES
  by John R. Tunis

  PHYSICAL CONDITIONING
  by Stafford & Duncan

  RIDING
  by J. J. Boniface

  RIFLE MARKSMANSHIP
  by Lt. Wm. L. Stephens

  ROPING
  by Bernard S. Mason

  SIX-MAN FOOTBALL
  by Ray O. Duncan

  SKATING
  by Putman & Parkinson

  SKIING
  by Walter Prager

  SOCCER AND SPEEDBALL FOR GIRLS
  by Florence L. Hupprich

  SOFTBALL
  by Arthur T. Noren

  SOFTBALL FOR GIRLS
  by Viola Mitchell

  SWIMMING
  by R. J. H. Kiphuth

  TABLE TENNIS
  by Jay Purves

  TENNIS
  by Helen Jacobs

  TOUCH FOOTBALL
  by John V. Grombach

  TRACK AND FIELD
  by Ray M. Conger

  VOLLEY BALL
  by Robert Laveaga

  WRESTLING
  by E. C. Gallagher

Clair Bee's Basketball Library

  THE SCIENCE OF COACHING
  ZONE DEFENSE AND ATTACK

  MAN-TO-MAN DEFENSE AND  ATTACK
  DRILLS AND FUNDAMENTALS

