Mamma looked disconcerted. The expression of her face implied the fear that the peddler would
not even accept it as a gift. Chloe and she held a whispering consultation. At this moment
Binah came in with little Patsey, who, seeing the articles on the slab, pointed with her dimpled
fingers, and said her only words,

"Pretty! pretty!"

At the same moment, Lafayette and Venus, the two little novices in furniture-rubbing, exclaimed,

"Ki! if dem ting an't shine too much!"

These opinions made the turning-point in mamma's mind, though coming from such insignificant
sources.

"So they are pretty, my darling," said mamma to Patsey; and then, turning to the peddler, she
asked him what he would give in exchange for the pantaloons, the waistcoat and the coat.

The peddler set aside two decanters, one pitcher, the plated candlesticks, and a hearth-brush.

"Tish ver goot pargains for te lady," said he.

Mamma gained courage.

"I can not think of letting you have all these things without something more. You must at least
throw in that little tray," and she looked at a small scarlet one, worth perhaps a quarter
of a dollar.

The peddler hesitated, and held it up so that the morning sun shone on its bright hues.

"I shall not make a bargain without that," said mamma, resolutely. The peddler sighed, and
laying it with the selected articles said:

"Tish ver great pargains for te lady."

Mamma smiled triumphantly, and the peddler, tying up his bundle and slinging his stick, departed
with an air of humility.

Papa's voice was soon heard, as usual, before he was seen.

"Rub down Beauty, Mark, and tell Diggory to call out the hounds."

There was a slight embarrassment in mamma's manner when he entered, mingled with the same quantity
of bravado. He nodded to her, tapped me on the head with his riding-whip, gave Patsey a kiss
as she stretched out her arms to him, tossed her in the air, and, returning her to her nurse,
was passing on.

"Do stop, Colonel," said mamma, "and admire my bargains. See this cut glass and plate that
we have been wishing for, to save our best set."

"What, this trash?" said he, pausing a moment at the table--"blown glass and washed brass!
Who has been fooling you?"

"Colonel," said mamma, coloring highly, "how can you--"

"I can not stop a minute, now, wife," said he, "Jones and Ferguson are for a hunt to-day! They
are waiting at Drake's corner. It looks like falling weather and my old drab will come in well
to-day."

Mamma looked frightened, and he passed on up-stairs. He was one of those gentlemen who keep
a house alive, as the phrase is, whether in merriment or the contrary, and we were always prepared
to search for his hat, or whip, or slippers, which he was confident he put in their places,
but which, by some miracle, were often in opposite directions. Our greatest trial, however,
was with mamma's and his spectacles, for they had four pairs between them--far-sighted and
near-sighted. There were, indeed, optical delusions practiced with them; for when papa wanted
his, they were hidden behind some pickle-jar; and when mamma had carefully placed hers in her
key-basket, they were generally found in one of papa's various pockets; when a distant object
was to be seen, he was sure to mount the near-sighted, and cry "Pshaw!" and if a splinter was
to be taken out, nothing could be found but the far-sighted ones, and he said something worse:
sometimes all four pairs were missing, and such a scampering ensued!

We now heard a great outcry up-stairs. "Wife! Chloe! Cornelia! come and find my drab coat!"
We looked at each other in dismay, but papa was not a man for delay, and we obeyed his summons.

"Wife," said he, beating aside the externals of man that hung about his dressing-room, "where
is my old drab coat?"

