"We hastened to the mouth of the cave, and there beheld our King. The oxen and the asses were
lying near, and a strong man, with a grave and benignant face, was leaning on his staff above
the manger. A beautiful young mother lay close beside it, her cheek resting on her hands, that
were clasped over the edge of the rock-hewn crib. Into this a little straw had been thrown,
and over it a purple robe had been cast, whereon the infant lay. A lamp, set upon a projection
of the wall of the cave, burned brightly near. The great eyes of the wonderful child were wandering
about the room; his hand touched his mother's lips. I waited to hear him open his mouth and speak.

"There was a moment of silence after we entered the cave. My father broke it with his salutation:

"'Hail, thou blessed among women!' he cried. 'This child of thine is a Prince and a Savior.'

"And then we all bowed low upon our faces before him and worshipped him with praise and gladness.

"The two aged women, with whom we had spoken, had followed us to the door of the stable, and,
seeing us worshipping there, had run to call others who were awake in the inn, so that when
we arose quite a company were standing at the door, or just within, gazing upon the King in
his beauty and listening to our thanksgiving with great wonder.

"Then my father told them all the things that we had heard and seen--the message of the angel,
the song in the air, the glory of the Lord that had appeared to us--and how we had quickly
come to Bethlehem, and had found things as the angel had told us. I saw no wonder on her face;
the great things that my father told caused her no astonishment; she listened with a quiet
and solemn joy, like one who was saying in her heart: 'I knew it all before.'

"When my father had finished speaking, we all bowed low again before the young child; and the
mother lifted him in her arms and placed his cheek against her own, smiling graciously on us,
but uttering no word. And we came forth from the stable and stood again beneath the stars in
the courtyard of the inn. By this time many of the travelers were awake, and an eager company
had gathered around us, all of whom desired to be told of the sign that had been shown to us.
To one and another we rehearsed our story, lingering long to make known the good tidings, until
the morning star appeared and the dawn began to kindle over the eastern hills. Then we hastened
to our own homes in the city, and told our kindred what had happened unto us. In the early
morning we came back again unto our pastures and our flocks, rejoicing to stand again in the
place where the glory of God had shone and the music of heaven had filled the air."

Stephanus paused, his face all aglow with the tale that he had been telling. His eyes swept
again the circuit of the moonlit hills and were lifted reverently up to the sky.

"Did you ever see the Lord Christ after that?" asked Joseph.

"Once only. My father and I were at Jerusalem at the passover. It was the year before my father
died, seventeen years ago; it was the same week on which our Lord was crucified. My father
was then an aged man--fourscore and five years old. Our tent was pitched on the slope of the
Mount of Olives, near the Bethany road. While we sat there one morning, a great noise of shouting
was heard, and presently we saw one riding on an ass, followed by a great company, crying 'Hosanna!'
As we drew nearer, we heard them say that it was Jesus of Nazareth; and, when we saw His face,
we knew that it was He, by the wonderful eyes, though it was the face of a bearded man, and
not of an infant, and was very pale and sad. As He drew near to our tent, the city came full
into His view, with its gilded roofs and marble pinnacles, blazing under the morning sun. Suddenly
He paused in the way, and we heard Him weeping aloud, though we could not hear His words of
lamentation. The multitude halted, too, when we did; and the cheering ceased, and some of those
who stood nearest Him wept also, though no one seemed to know what had caused His grief. But
soon they went on again, and before they reached the foot of the hill another multitude met
them, coming forth from the city, and we heard their shouts of 'Hosanna in the Highest!' as
they entered the gate of Jerusalem."

"What said your father when he saw all this?" queried Joseph.

"He said but little. There was a shadow on his face, yet he spoke cheerfully. 'I cannot understand
it,' he murmured. 'They are trying to make Him King of the Jews; but King He will not be, at
least not in their fashion. Yet in some way I know He will be Prince and Deliverer. I cannot
understand, I will wait.'"

"Were you not in Jerusalem when He was put to death?"

"No. My father was frail and ill and we had hastened home to Bethlehem. News of His death on
the cross had only just reached us when another messenger came to tell us that the sepulcher
in which He had been laid was empty; that He had risen from the dead.

"My father's eyes kindled when he heard this message. He cast aside his staff and stood firm
on his feet. His voice, when he spoke, rang out like a trumpet. 'Blessed be the Lord God of
Israel!' he cried. It is thus that He redeemeth His people. This Jesus is not to be the Captain
of our armies, but the Savior of our souls. His kingdom is the kingdom of righteousness, and
therefore it is that the prophet hath said: "Of the increase of His government and peace there
shall be no end."

"Always after that, words of the prophet concerning the Messiah kept coming back to my father;
and once and again he cried out: 'Truly, this Jesus was the Son of God, the true King of Israel!'
As the months wore on, his words were more and more of the crucified and risen Lord, and he
dwelt in a great peace. At length, when the flocks were led forth to the midwinter pasturage,
he begged to go with me. It was on this very day that we came, the same day of the year on
which the Lord was born. He was feeble and tottered as he walked; but he leaned on my arm and
we came slowly. In the evening he said: 'Let me go, my son, and sit once more under the great
rock.' I wrapped him in my coat of skins, and sat here where I sit now and where he was sitting
when the angel came. We talked here long, under the stars, that night, of Him whom we had learned
to love as Master and Lord, of the works that He had done and the words that He had spoken,
as His disciples had told of them. We had been silent for a few moments, when I looked up,
and saw that his head had fallen backward against the rock wall. I sprang to him. His eyes
were shut, but his lips were moving. I put my ear to his mouth, and heard him say only: 'Peace--on--earth--good
will'--they were his last words. He had gone beyond our starlight, into the country where the
light always shines--the glory that fell that night, fifty years ago, upon these hills of Bethlehem."

Stephanus was silent and Joseph's eyes were full of tears. At length the old man rose.

"Come, my son," he said. "Cesil is in the south; it is midnight; let us call your father and
his brother. The old man and the boy have kept their watch, and it is now time for rest."

[*] Used by permission of the Author.

THE STORY OF CHRISTMAS[*]

Nora A. Smith

     "A great spiritual efficiency lies in story-telling".--Froebel.

Christmas Day, you know, dear children, is Christ's day, Christ's birthday, and I want to tell
you why we love it so much, and why we try to make every one happy when it comes each year.

A long, long time ago--more than eighteen hundred years--the baby Christ was born on Christmas
Day; a baby so wonderful and so beautiful, who grew up to be a man so wise, so good, so patient
and sweet that, every year, the people who know about Him love Him better and better, and are
more and more glad when His birthday comes again. You see that He must have been very good
and wonderful; for people have always remembered His birthday, and kept it lovingly for eighteen
hundred years.

He was born, long years ago, in a land far, far away across the seas.

Before the baby Christ was born, Mary, His mother, had to make a long journey with her husband,
Joseph. They made this journey to be taxed or counted; for in those days this could not be
done in the town where people happened to live, but they must be numbered in the place where
they were born.

In that far-off time the only way of traveling was on a horse, or a camel, or a good, patient
donkey. Camels and horses cost a great deal of money, and Mary was very poor; so she rode on
a quiet, safe donkey, while Joseph walked by her side, leading him and leaning on his stick.
Mary was very young, and beautiful, I think, but Joseph was a great deal older than she.

People dress nowadays, in those distant countries, just as they did so many years ago, so we
know that Mary must have worn a long, thick dress, falling all about her in heavy folds, and
that she had a soft white veil over her head and neck, and across her face. Mary lived in Nazareth,
and the journey they were making was to Bethlehem, many miles away.

They were a long time traveling, I am sure; for donkeys are slow, though they are so careful,
and Mary must have been very tired before they came to the end of their journey.

They had traveled all day, and it was almost dark when they came near to Bethlehem, to the
town where the baby Christ was to be born. There was the place they were to stay,--a kind of
inn, or lodging-house, but not at all like those you know about.

They have them today in that far-off country, just as they built them so many years ago.

It was a low, flat-roofed, stone building, with no windows and only one large door. There were
no nicely furnished bed rooms inside, and no soft white beds for the tired travelers; there
were only little places built into the stones of the wall, something like the berths on steamboats
nowadays, and each traveler brought his own bedding. No pretty garden was in front of the inn,
for the road ran close to the very door, so that its dust lay upon the doorsill. All around
the house, to a high, rocky hill at the back, a heavy stone fence was built, so that the people
and the animals inside might be kept safe.

Mary and Joseph could not get very near the inn; for the whole road in front was filled with
camels and donkeys and sheep and cows, while a great many men were going to and fro, taking
care of the animals. Some of these people had come to Bethlehem to pay their taxes, as Mary
and Joseph had done, and others were staying for the night on their way to Jerusalem, a large
city a little further on.

The yard was filled, too, with camels and sheep; and men were lying on the ground beside them,
resting and watching and keeping them safe. The inn was so full and the yard was so full of
people that there was no room for anybody else, and the keeper had to take Joseph and Mary
through the house and back to the high hill, where they found another place that was used for
a stable. This had only a door and front, and deep caves were behind, stretching far into the
rocks.

This was the spot where Christ was born. Think how poor a place!--but Mary was glad to be there,
after all; and when the Christ-child came, He was like other babies, and had so lately come
from heaven that He was happy everywhere.

There were mangers all around the cave, where the cattle and sheep were fed, and great heaps
of hay and straw were lying on the floor. Then, I think, there were brown-eyed cows and oxen
there, and quiet, woolly sheep, and perhaps even some dogs that had come in to take care of
the sheep.

And there in the cave, by and by, the wonderful baby came, and they wrapped Him up and laid
Him in a manger.

All the stars in the sky shone brightly that night, for they knew the Christ-child was born,
and the angels in heaven sang together for joy. The angels knew about the lovely child, and
were glad that He had come to help the people on earth to be good.

There lay the beautiful baby, with a manger for His bed, and oxen and sheep all sleeping quietly
round Him. His mother watched Him and loved Him, and by and by many people came to see Him,
for they had heard that a wonderful child was to be born in Bethlehem. All the people in the
inn visited Him, and even the shepherds left their flocks in the fields and sought the child
and His mother.

But the baby was very tiny, and could not talk any more than any other tiny child, so He lay
in His mother's lap, or in the manger, and only looked at the people. So after they had seen
Him and loved Him, they went away again.

After a time, when the baby had grown larger, Mary took Him back to Nazareth, and there He
lived and grew up.

And He grew to be such a sweet, wise, loving boy, such a tender, helpful man, and He said so
many good and beautiful things, that everyone who knew Him, loved Him. Many of the things He
said are in the Bible, you know, and a great many beautiful stories of the things He used to
do while He was on earth.

He loved little children like you very much, and often used to take them up in His arms and
talk to them.

And this is the reason we love Christmas Day so much, and try to make everybody happy when
it comes around each year. This is the reason; because Christ, who was born on Christmas Day,
has helped us all to be good so many, many times, and because He was the best Christmas present
the world ever had!

[*] From "The Story Hour," by Kate Douglas Wiggins and Nora A. Smith. Used by permission of
the authors and also of the publishers--Houghton, Mifflin and Company.

THE LEGEND OF THE CHRISTMAS TREE[*]

By Lucy Wheelock

Two little children were sitting by the fire one cold winter's night. All at once they heard
a timid knock at the door, and one ran to open it.

There, outside in the cold and the darkness, stood a child with no shoes upon his feet and
clad in thin, ragged garments. He was shivering with cold, and he asked to come in and warm
himself.

"Yes, come," cried both the children; "you shall have our place by the fire. Come in!"

They drew the little stranger to their warm seat and shared their supper with him, and gave
him their bed, while they slept on a hard bench.

In the night they were awakened by strains of sweet music and, looking out, they saw a band
of children in shining garments approaching the house. They were playing on golden harps, and
the air was full of melody.

Suddenly the Stranger Child stood before them; no longer cold and ragged, but clad in silvery
light.

His soft voice said: "I was cold and you took Me in. I was hungry, and you fed Me. I was tired,
and you gave Me your bed. I am the Christ Child, wandering through the world to bring peace
and happiness to all good children. As you have given to Me, so may this tree every year give
rich fruit to you."

So saying, He broke a branch from the fir tree that grew near the door, and He planted it in
the ground and disappeared. But the branch grew into a great tree, and every year it bore wonderful
golden fruit for the kind children.

[*] From "For the Children's Hour," by Bailey and Lewis. Used by permission of the authors
and the publishers--Milton Bradley Company.

LITTLE JEAN[*]

A Christmas Story

Long ago, and far from here, in a country with a name too hard to pronounce, there lived a
little boy named Jean. In many ways, he was just like the boys here, for there are many Johns
over here, are there not? Then too, Jean lived with his auntie, and some of our boys do that
too. His father and mother were dead, and that is true here sometimes, isn't it? But in some
ways things were quite different with Jean. In the first place his auntie was very, very cross,
and she often made him climb up his ladder to his little garret room to go to sleep on his
pallet of straw, without any supper, save a dry crust. His stockings had holes in the heels,
and toes and knees, because his auntie never had time to mend them, and his shoes would have
been worn out all the time if they had not been such strong wooden shoes--for in that country
the boys all wore wooden shoes. Jean did many a little service around the place, for his auntie
made him work for his daily bread, and he chopped the wood and swept the paths and made the
fires and ran the errands, but he never heard anyone say "Thank you."

Jean's happiest days were at school, and I wonder if he was like our boys in that? There his
playmates wore much better clothes and good stockings too, and warm top coats, but they never
thought of making fun of Jean, for they all loved to play with him. One morning Jean started
off to school (which was next to the big church), and when he got there he found the children
all so happy and gay and dressed in their best clothes, and he heard one boy say, "Won't it
be jolly tomorrow with the big tree full of oranges and popcorn and candy, and the candles
burning?" And another added, "Won't it be fun to see the things in our shoes in the morning,
the goodies that boys love?" And another said, "My, but we have a big, fat goose at our house,
stuffed with plums and just brown to a turn," and he smacked his lips as he thought of it.
And Jean began to wonder about that beautiful tree and wish that one would grow at his house.
And he thought about his wooden shoes and knew there would be no goodies in them for him in
the morning. Then he heard one boy say, "Don't you love Christmas?" And Jean said, "Christmas!
why, what is Christmas?" But just then the teacher came in and said, "Boys, come into the church
now and hear the music." And so the boys marched one behind the other just as they do in school
here, and they went into the great church. Jean thought it was beautiful in there! The soft
light, the warm pleasant air, the flowers, and the marble altar, and then the music! Oh, such
music Jean had never heard, and somehow as he sat on the high-backed bench and listened, his
own heart grew very warm although he could not understand why, and he loved so to hear them
singing: "Peace on earth, good will to men." And it began to sing itself over and over in his
heart, this sweet, sweet song of "Peace on earth, good will to men." Then the time came to
go home, and the boys all shouted, "Good-bye, Jean! and Merry Christmas!" And though Jean didn't
know about "Merry Christmas," he kept singing in his little warmed heart, "Peace on earth,
good will to men," and then he was glad the other boys could have the tree and the goose and
the wooden shoes full of goodies even if he couldn't.

