 (26) In the piping days of peace.

 (27) See "Econ." xi. 17. Cf. Theophr. "Ch." viii. "The Late Learner":
    {kai eis agron eph' ippou allotriou katakhoumenos ama meletan
    ippazesthai, kai peson ten kephalon kateagenai}, "Riding into the
    country on another's horse, he will practise his horsemanship by
    the way, and falling, will break his head"  (Jebb).

 (28) = L10,000 circa. See Boeckh, op. cit. p. 251.

It would be no bad thing either, to forewarn your troopers that one day you will take them
out yourself for a long march, and lead them across country over every kind of ground. Again,
whilst practising the evolutions of the rival cavalry display, (29) it will be well to gallop
out at one time to one district and again to another. Both men and horses will be benefited.

 (29) Lit. "the anthippasia." See iii. 11, and "Horsemanship," viii.
    10.

Next, as to hurling the javelin from horseback, the best way to secure as wide a practice of
the art as possible, it strikes me, would be to issue an order to your phylarchs that it will
be their duty to put themselves at the head of the marksmen of several tribes, and to ride
out to the butts for practice. In this way a spirit of emulation will be roused--the several
officers will, no doubt, be eager to turn out as many marksmen as they can to aid the state. (30)

 (30) On competition cf. "Cyrop." II. i. 22, and our author passim.

And so too, to ensure that splendour of accoutrement which the force requires, (31) the greatest
help may once again be looked for from the phylarchs; let these officers but be persuaded that
from the public point of view the splendid appearance of their squadrons (32) will confer a
title to distinction far higher than that of any personal equipment. Nor is it reasonable to
suppose that they will be deaf to such an argument, since the very desire to hold the office
of phylarch itself proclaims a soul alive to honour and ambition. And what is more, they have
it in their power, in accordance with the actual provisions of the law, to equip their men
without the outlay of a single penny, by enforcing that self-equipment out of pay (33) which
the law prescribes.

 (31) Or, "a beauty of equipment, worthy of our knights." Cf. Aristoph.
    "Lysistr." 561, and a fragment of "The Knights," of Antiphanes,
    ap. Athen. 503 B, {pant' 'Amaltheias keras}. See "Hiero," ix. 6;
    "Horse." xi. 10.

 (32) Lit. "tribes," {phulai}  (each of the ten tribes contributing
    about eighty men, or, as we might say, a squadron).

 (33) i.e. the {katastasis}, "allowance," so technically called. Cf.
    Lys. "for Mantitheos"; Jebb, "Att. Or." i. 246; Boeckh, "P. E. A."
    II. xxi. p. 263; K. F. Hermann, 152, 19; Martin, op. cit. p. 341.

But to proceed. In order to create a spirit of obedience in your subordinates, you have two
formidable instruments; (34) as a matter of plain reason you can show them what a host of blessings
the word discipline implies; and as a matter of hard fact you can, within the limits of the
law, enable the well-disciplined to reap advantage, while the undisciplined are made to feel
the pinch at every turn.

 (34) "The one theoretic, the other practical."

But if you would rouse the emulation of your phylarchs, if you would stir in each a personal
ambition to appear at the head of his own squadron in all ways splendidly appointed, the best
incentive will be your personal example. You must see to it that your own bodyguard (35) are
decked with choice accoutrement and arms; you must enforce on them the need to practise shooting
pertinaciously; you must expound to them the theory of the javelin, yourself an adept in the
art through constant training. (36)

 (35) Techn. {prodromoi}, possibly = the Hippotoxotai, or corps of 200
    mounted archers--Scythians; cf. "Mem." III. iii. 11. Or, probably,
    "mounted skirmishers," distinct from the {ippotexotai}. Cf.
    Arrian, "An." i. 12. 7. See Aristot. "Ath. Pol." 49. 5.

 (36) Reading as vulg. {eisegoio}, or if with L. D. {egoio}  (cf. above,
    S. 21), trans. "you must lead them out to the butts yourself."

Lastly, were it possible to institute and offer prizes to the several tribal squadrons in reward
for every excellence of knighthood known to custom in the public spectacles of our city, we
have here, I think, an incentive which will appeal to the ambition of every true Athenian.
How small, in the like case of our choruses, the prizes offered, and yet how great the labour
and how vast the sums expended! (37) But we must discover umpires of such high order that to
win their verdict will be as precious to the victor as victory itself.

 (37) See "Hell." III. iv. 15; "Hiero," ix. 3; "Cyrop." I. vi. 18;
    Martin, op. cit. p. 260 f.

II

Given, then, that your troopers are thoroughly trained in all the above particulars, it is
necessary, I presume, that they should further be instructed in a type of evolution the effect
of which will show itself not only in the splendour of the great processions (1) in honour
of the gods, but in the manouvres of the exercising-ground; in the valorous onslaught of real
battle when occasion calls; and in the ease with which whole regiments will prosecute their
march, or cross a river, or thread a defile without the slightest symptom of confusion. What
this formation is--essential, at least in my opinion, to the noblest execution of their several
duties--I will now, without delay, endeavour to explain. (2)

 (1) e.g. the Panathenaic, as depicted on the frieze of the Parthenon.

 (2) Or, "what this best order is, the adoption of which will give
    these several features fair accomplishment, I will without further
    pause set forth."

We take as our basis, then, the constitutional division of ten
tribes. (3) Given these, the proper course, I say, is to appoint, with
the concurrence of the several phylarchs, certain decadarchs
 (file-leaders) (4) to be selected from the men ripest of age and
strength, most eager to achieve some deed of honour and to be known to
fame. These are to form your front-rank men; (5) and after these, a
corresponding number should be chosen from the oldest and the most
sagacious members of the squadron, to form the rear-rank of the files
or decads; since, to use an illustration, iron best severs iron when
the forefront of the blade (6) is strong and tempered, and the momentum
at the back is sufficient.

 (3) See "Revenues," iv. 30.

 (4) Decadarchs, lit. commanders of ten, a "file" consisting normally
     (or ideally) of ten men. Cf. "Cyrop. II." ii. 30; VIII. i. 14. It
    will be borne in mind that a body of cavalry would, as a rule, be
    drawn up in battle line at least four deep  (see "Hell." III. iv.
    13), and frequently much deeper.  (The Persian cavalry in the
    engagement just referred to were twelve deep.)

 (5) See "Cyrop." III. iii. 41, 57; VI. iii. 24, 27; VII. i. 15; "Pol.
    Lac." xi. 5. These front-rank men would seem to correspond to our
    "troop guides," and the rear-rank men to our serre-files to some
    extent.

 (6) Cf. Aelian Tact. 26, ap. Courier.

The interval between the front and rear-rank men will best be filled supposing that the decadarchs
are free to choose their own supports, and those chosen theirs, and so on following suit; since
on this principle we may expect each man to have his trustiest comrade at his back.

As to your lieutenant, (7) it is every way important to appoint a good man to this post, whose
bravery will tell; and in case of need at any time to charge the enemy, the cheering accents
of his voice will infuse strength into those in front; or when the critical moment of retreat
arrives, his sage conduct in retiring will go far, we may well conclude, towards saving his
division. (8)

 (7) {ton aphegoumenon}, lit. "him who leads back"  (a function which
    would devolve upon the {ouragos} under many circumstances). Cf.
    "Cyrop." II. iii. 21; "Hell." IV. viii. 37; Plat. "Laws," 760 D. =
    our "officer serre-file," to some extent. So Courier: "Celui qui
    commande en serre-file. C'est chez nous le capitaine en second."

 (8) Or, "the rest of the squadron." Lit. "his own tribesmen."

An even number of file-leaders will admit of a greater number of equal subdivisions than an odd.

The above formation pleases me for two good reasons: in the first place, all the front-rank
men are forced to act as officers; (9) and the same man, mark you, when in command is somehow
apt to feel that deeds of valour are incumbent on him which, as a private, he ignores; and
in the next place, at a crisis when something calls for action on the instant, the word of
command passed not to privates but to officers takes speedier effect.

 (9) i.e. all find themselves in a position of command, and there is
    nothing like command to inspire that feeling of noblesse oblige
    which is often lacking in the private soldier. See Thuc. v. 66;
    "Pol. Lac." xi. 5.

Supposing, then, a regiment of cavalry drawn up in this formation:
just as the squadron-leaders have their several positions for the march
 (or the attack (10)) assigned them by the commander, so the file-leaders
will depend upon the captain for the order passed along the line in what
formation they are severally to march; and all being prearranged by word
of mouth, the whole will work more smoothly than if left to chance--like
people crowding out of a theatre to their mutual annoyance. And when it
comes to actual encounter greater promptitude will be displayed:
supposing the attack is made in front, by the file-leaders who know that
this is their appointed post; or in case of danger suddenly appearing in
rear, then by the rear-rank men, whose main idea is that to desert one's
post is base. A want of orderly arrangement, on the contrary, leads to
confusion worse confounded at every narrow road, at every passage of a
river; and when it comes to fighting, no one of his own free will
assigns himself his proper post in face of an enemy.

 (10) Lit. "where to ride," i.e. in what formation whether on the line
    of march or in action.

The above are fundamental matters not to be performed without the active help of every trooper
who would wish to be a zealous and unhesitating fellow-worker with his officer. (11)

 (11) Cf. "Hiero," vii. 2; "Cyrop." II. iv. 10.

III

I come at length to certain duties which devolve upon the general of cavalry himself in person:
and first and foremost, it concerns him to obtain the favour of the gods by sacrifices in behalf
of the state cavalry; and in the next place to make the great procession at the festivals a
spectacle worth seeing; and further, with regard to all those public shows demanded by the
state, wherever held, (1) whether in the grounds of the Academy or the Lyceum, at Phaleron
or within the hippodrome, it is his business as commander of the knights to see that every
pageant of the sort is splendidly exhibited.

 (1) Cf. Theophr. "Ch." vii.  (Jebb ad loc. p. 204, n. 25).

But these, again, are memoranda. (2) To the question how the several features of the pageant
shall receive their due impress of beauty, I will now address myself.

 (2) Read {tauta men alla upomnemata}, or if with Pantazid. {apla},
    trans. "these are simply memoranda."

And first to speak of the Processions. (3) These will, I think, be rendered most acceptable
to Heaven and to earth's spectators were the riders to ride round the Agora and temples, commencing
from the Hermae, and pay honour to the sacred beings, each in turn, whose shrines and statues
are there congregated.  (Thus in the great Dionysia (4) the choruses embrace their gracious
service to the other gods and to the Twelve with circling dance. (5)) When the circuit is completed,
and the riders are back again in front of the Hermae, it would add, I think, to the beauty
of the scene (6) if at this point they formed in companies of tribes, and giving their horses
rein, swept forward at the gallop to the Eleusinion. Nor must I omit to note the right position
of the lance, to lessen as far as possible the risk of mutual interference. (7) Each trooper
should hold his lance straight between the ears of his charger, which in proportion to the
distinctness given to the weapon will rouse terror, and at the same time create a vague idea
of multitudinousness. (8)

 (3) {tas pompas}. See A. Martin, op. cit. 147, 160.

 (4) Celebrated in March  (Elaphebolion).

 (5) Or, "by dancing roundelays in honour of the gods, especially The
    Twelve"; and as to the Twelve cf. Aristoph. "Knights," 235,
    "Birds," 95; Plat. "Laws," 654; Paus. i. 3. 3; 40. 3; viii. 25. 3;
    Plut. "Nic." 13; Lycurg. 198.

 (6) Or, "it would be a beautiful sequel to the proceedings, in my
    opinion, if at this point they formed in squadron column, and
    giving rein to their chargers, swept forward at full gallop to the
    Eleusinion." See Leake, op. cit. i. 296.

 (7) Lit. "nor will I omit how the lances shall as little as possible
    overlap one another."

 (8) Lit. "Every trooper should be at pains to keep his lance straight
    between the ears of his charger, if these weapons are to be
    distinct and terror-striking, and at the same time to appear
    numerous."

As soon as they have ceased from the charge at full gallop, the pace should at once be changed;
and now, with footing slow, let them retrace their course back to the temples. In this way
every detail characteristic of knightly pageantry (9) will have been displayed to the delight
of god and man. That our knights are not accustomed to these actual evolutions, I am well aware;
but I also recognise the fact that the performances are good and beautiful and will give pleasure
to spectators. I do not fail to note, moreover, that novel feats of horsemanship have before
now been performed by our knights, when their commanders have had the ability to get their
wishes readily complied with.

 (9) Lit. "everything that may be performed on a mounted horse."
    Possibly, as Cobet suggests, {kala} has dropped out. See
    "Horsemanship," xi. 3, 6.

But now, let us suppose it is the occasion of the march-past, (10) in the grounds of the Lyceum,
before the javelin-throwing. The scene would gain in beauty if the tribal squadrons were to
ride in line of columns (11) as if for battle, in two divisions, five squadrons in the one
and five in the other, with the hipparch and the phylarchs at their head, in such formation
as to allow the whole breadth of the racecourse to be filled. Then, as soon as they have gained
the top (12) of the incline, which leads down to the theatre opposite, it would, I think, be
obviously useful here to show the skill with which your troopers can gallop down a steep incline
(13) with as broad a front as the nature of the ground permits. I am quite clear that your
troopers, if they can trust their own skill in galloping, will take kindly to such an exhibition;
while as certainly, if unpractised, they must look to it that the enemy does not give them
a lesson in the art some day, perforce.

 (10) {dielaunosin en Lukeio}. See A. Martin, op. cit. 196; cf. Arist.
    "Peace," 356.

 (11) Or, as we might say, "in regimental order," "with the commanding
    officer in front and their respective squadron-leaders"; and for
    the Lyceum see "Hell." I. i. 33; II. iv. 27.

 (12) Lit. "the apex of the confronting theatre."

 (13) See "Horsemanship," viii. 6; "Anab." IV. viii. 28.

