"He that fights and runs away," &c.--Your correspondent MELANION may be assured that the orations
of Demosthenes do not afford any trace of the proverbial senarius, [Greek: anaer d pheugon
kai palin machaesetai]; and it does not appear quite clear how the apophthegm containing it
(which has been so generally attributed to Plutarch) has been concocted. Heeren, in doing full
justice to the biographical talent of the Chæronean, has yet observed, "We may easily see that
in his Lives he only occasionally indicates his authorities, because his own head was so often
the source." It is in the life of Demosthenes that the story of his flight is told, but briefly;
and for that part which relates to the inscription on the shield of Demosthenes, he says, [Greek:
hos elege Putheas]. The other life among those of the Ten Orators, the best critics think not
to be Plutarch's; and the relation in it is too ridiculous for credit; yet it is repeated by
Photius.

The first writer in which the story takes something of the form in which Erasmus gives it is
Aulus Gellius (Noct. Att. l. xvii. c. 21.):--

    "Post inde aliquanto tempore Philippus apud Chaeroneam
    proelio magno Athenienses vicit. Tum Demosthenes orator ex eo
    proelio salutem fuga quaesivit: quumque id ei, quod fugerat,
    probrose objiceretur; versu illo notissimo elusit, [Greek:
    anaer d pheugon], inquit, [Greek: kai palin machaesetai]."

We here see that the senarius is designated as a well-known verse, so that it must have been
in the mouths of the people long before it was applied to this piece of gossip. I have hitherto
not been able to trace it to an earlier writer.

The Apophthegmata of Erasmus were first published, I believe, in 1531, in six books. I have
an edition printed by Frobenius, at Basle, in 1538, in which two more books are added; and,
in an epistle prefixed to the seventh book, Erasmus says,--

    "Prodiit opus, tanta aviditate distractum est, ut protinus à
    typographo coeperit efflagitare denuo."

He names twenty-one ancient Greek and Latin authors from which the apophthegms had been collected;
and, with regard to what he has taken from Plutarch, he mentions the licence he has used:--

    "Nos Plutarchum multis de causis sequi maluimus quam
    interpretari, explanare quam vertere."

It is from this book of Erasmus that the worthy Nicolas Udall selected his Two Bookes of Apophthegmes;
and he tells his readers,--

    "I have been so bold with mine author as to make the first
    booke and second booke, which he maketh third and fowerth."

Udall has occasionally added further explanations of his own to those translated from Erasmus.
He promises, in good time, the remaining, books, but says,--

    "I have thought better, with two of the eight, to minister
    unto you a taste of this bothe delectable and fruitefull
    recreation."

Those who are desirous of knowing at large the course pursued by Erasmus in the compilation
of this amusing and once popular work, will find it fully stated in his preface; one passage
of which will show the large licence he allowed himself:--

    "Sed totum opus quodammodo meum feci, dum et explanatius
    effero qua Graece referuntur, interjectis interdum quæ apud
    alios autores additur comperissem," &c.

The only sure ground, as far as I can discover, for this gradually constructed legend, is the
mention of the flight of Demosthenes by Æschines and Dinarchus. In the more amplified editions
of Erasmus's Adages, after the publication of the Apophthegmata, he repeats the story in illustration
of a Latin proverb (probably only a version of the Greek), "Vir fugiens et denuo pugnabitur;"
and I find in some collections of the sixteenth century both the Latin and Greek given upon
the authority of Plutarch! Langius, in his Polyanthea (a copious common-place book which would
outweigh twenty of our late Laureate's) has given the apophthegm verbatim from Erasmus, and
has boldly appended Plutarch's name. But the more extraordinary course is that which one Gualandi
took, who published, at Venice, in 1568,{4} in 4to., an omnium gatherum, in five books, from
various sources, in which there is much taken from Erasmus, and yet the title is Apoftemmi
di Plutarco. In this book, the whole of the twenty-three apophthegms of Erasmus which relate
to Demosthenes are given, and two more added at the end. It appears that Philelphus, and after
him Raphael Regius, had printed, in the fifteenth century, Latin collections under the title
of Plutarch's Apophthegms, and, according to Erasmus, had both taken liberties with their original.
I have not seen either of these Latin versions, of which there were several editions. As far
as regards Demosthenes, I think we may fairly conclude that the story is apocryphal. The Greek
proverbial verse was no doubt a popular saying, which Aulus Gellius thought might give a lively
turn to his story, of which an Italian would say, "Se non vero è ben trovato."

S.W. SINGER.

Feb. 9. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

CUSTOM OF PRESENTING GLOVES.

The following extracts from a MS. "Day-book" of the celebrated Anne Countess of Pembroke, recording
the daily events of the last few months of her life passed at Brougham Castle in 1675, afford
a further illustration of the custom of presenting gloves (Vol. i. pp. 72. 405.) as a matter
of courtesy and kindness; and show, also, that it was not unusual to make presents of small
sums of money in exhibition of the same feelings on the part of the donor:--

    "January, as the year begins on New Year's Day.

    "10th day, And to-day there dined here with my folks my cousin
    Thomas Sandford's wife, of Askham, and her second son; so after
    dinner I had them into my chamber and kissed her, and took him by
    the hand, and I gave her a pair of buckskin gloves, and him 5s.,
    and then they went away.

    "12th day. There dined here in the Painted Chamber with my folks
    Mrs. Jane Carleton, the widow, sister to Sir W'm. Carleton,
    deceased. So after dinner I had her into my chamber, and kissed
    her and talked with her awhile, and I gave her 5s., and she went
    away.

    "17th day, To-day there dined with my folks my cousin, Mr. Thomas
    Burbeck, of Hornby, and his wife and their little daughter, and
    his father-in-law, Mr. Cotterick, and his wife and his mother;
    and there also dined here Mr. Robert Carleton, only son to the
    widow, Lady Carleton. So after dinner I had them all into my
    chamber, and kissed the women, and took the men by the hand, and
    I gave to my cousin, Mr. Burbeck, and his wife each 10s., and
    his mother 10s., and his father-in-law, Mr. Cotterick, and his
    wife, each of them 10s., and 6s. to the child, and I gave Mr.
    Carleton a pair of buckskin gloves, and then they all went away."

In another entry the Countess records the gift to a Mrs. Winch of Settra Park of "four pair
of buckskin gloves that came from Kendall."

It does not appear that any present was made to the Countess in return. As in the case of Archbishop
Laud and Master Prynne (Vol. i. p. 405.), these gifts were evidently expressions of condescension
and good will by one in a high position to another in a somewhat lower station. It is, I take
it, evident that the money-gifts, from the rank in life of the parties, and their connection
with the Countess, could have been made with no other meaning or intention.

JAS. CROSBY.

Streatham, April 22. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE. Turner, in his History of Remarkable Providences, Lond.

In the above-named counties, nine roasted mice, three taken each third morning, constitutes
the common charm for the hooping-cough.

T.S.

Suffolk Folk Lore.--I send you a few articles on "Folk Lore", now, or not long ago, current
in the county of Suffolk, in addition to what is to be found in the latter part of the second
volume of Forby's Vocabulary of East Anglia.

1. To ascertain whether her pretended lovers really love her or not, the maiden takes an apple-pip,
and naming one of her followers, puts the pip in the fire. If it makes a noise in bursting
from the heat, it is a proof of love; but if it is consumed without a crack, she is fully satisfied
that there is no real regard towards her in the person named.

2. "I remember the wooing of a peascod instead of her." (Shakesp.)--The efficacy of peascods
in the concerns of sweethearts is not yet forgotten among our rustic vulgar. The kitchen-maid,
when she shells green peas, never omits, when she finds one having nine peas, to lay it on
the lintel of the kitchen door; and the first clown who enters it is infallibly to be her husband,
or at least her sweetheart.

3. If you have your clothes mended upon your back, you will be ill spoken of.{5}

4. If you sweep the house with blossomed broom in May,
   Y're sure to sweep the head of the house away.

Similar to which is the following:--

5. To sleep in a room with the whitethorn bloom in it during the month of May, will surely
be followed by some great misfortune.

6. Cure for Fits.--If a young woman has fits, she applies to ten or a dozen unmarried men (if
the sufferer be a man, he applies to as many maidens) and obtains from each of them a small
piece of silver of any kind, as a piece of a broken spoon, or ring, or brooch, buckle, and
even sometimes a small coin, and a penny; the twelve pieces of silver are taken to a silversmith
or other worker in metal, who forms therefrom a ring, which is to be worn by the person afflicted.
If any of the silver remains after the ring is made, the workman has it as his perquisite;
and the twelve pennies also are intended as the wages for his work, and he must charge no more.

In 1830 I went into a gunsmith's shop in the village where I then resided, and seeing some
fragments of silver in a saucer, I had the curiosity to inquire about them, when I was informed
that they were the remains of the contributions for a ring for the above purpose which he had
lately been employed to make.

D.

Bible and Key.--Mr. Stevens's note on divination (Vol. i. p. 413.) reminds me of another use
to which the bible and key are made subservient by the rustics in this locality. When some
choice specimen of the "Lancashire Witches" thinks it necessary to decide upon selecting a
suitor from among the number of her admirers, she not unfrequently calls in the aid of these
auxiliaries to assist in determining her choice. Having opened the Bible at the passage in
Ruth which states, "whither thou goest I will go," &c., and having carefully placed the wards
of the key upon the verses, she ties the book firmly with a piece of cord; and, having mentioned
the name of an admirer, she very solemnly repeats the passage in question, at the same time
holding the Bible suspended by joining the ends of her little fingers inserted under the handle
of the key. If the key retain its position during the repetition, the person whose name has
been mentioned is considered to be rejected and so another name is tried until the book turns
round and falls through the fingers, which is said to be a sure token that the name just mentioned
is that of an individual who will certainly marry her.

T.W.

Burnley, April 27.

P.S. In confirmation of the above, I may state that I have a Bible in my possession which bears
evidence of having seen much service of this description.

NOTES ON JEREMY TAYLOR'S LIFE OF CHRIST.

(Eden's Edit.)

Part I. Ad sect. 8. § 2. p. 166.--"It was Tertullian's great argument in behalf of Christians,
'see how they love one another.'"--Apol. c. 39.

Part I. Discourse iv. § 4. p. 173.--"A cook told Dionysius the tyrant, the black broth of Lacedæmon
would not do well at Syracuse, unless it be tasted by a Spartan's palate."--Cicero, Tusc. D.
v. § 98. Stob. Flor. Tit. 29. n. 100. Plut. Inst. Lac. 2. [these have been already referred
to in "NOTES AND QUERIES"]: and compare Plutarch (Vit. Lycurgi, c. 12.).

Part II. Ad sect. 12. § 4. p. 394.--"If a man throw away his gold, as did Crates the Theban."--Diog.
Laert. vi. § 87.

Ibid. § 7. p. 395. note b.--"Gaudet patientia duris."--Lucan. ix. 403.

Ibid. § 16. p. 404. note y.--"Plato vocat puritatem [Greek: apokrisin cheironon apo beltionon.]"
Definit.  p. 415. D.

Ibid. § 41. (on the tenth commandment) p. 446. note z.--"Non minus esse turpe oculos quam pedes
in aliena immittere, dixit Xenocrates."--Ælian. Var. Hist. xiv. 42. Plutarch de Curiositate, c. 12.

Part II. Sect. 12. Discourse xi. § 5. p 451.--"Harpaste, Seneca's wife's fool."--Seneca, Epist. 50.

Part II. Sect. 12. Discourse xiv. § 8. p. 496.--"Vespasian, by the help of Apollonius Tyaneus,
who was his familiar."--See Philostratus (Vit. Apollon. v. 28. § 1.).

Part III. Sect. 13. Discourse xv. § 11. p. 526.--"What the Roman gave as an estimate of a rich
man, saying, 'He that can maintain an army, is rich.'"-Cicero Off. I. § 25. Plutarch Vit. Crassi,
c. 2.

Part III. Sect. 13. Discourse xvi. § 8. p. 554. note e.--"Hic felix, nullo turbante Deorum;
Is, nullo parcente, miser."--Lucan, viii. 707.

NOTES ON JEREMY TAYLOR'S SERMONS.

(Eden's Edit.)

Serm. XVIII. Part I. sect. 2. § 2.--"Alexander, that wept because he had no more worlds to
conquer."--Plutarch de Tranquillitate Animi, c. 4.

Serm. XXIII. Part I. p. 613.--"[Greek: ophrus hepaerkotes, kai to phronimon zaetountes en tois
peripatois.]"--Plato Comicus apud Athenæum, p. 103. d. Lib. iii. c. 23. § 61. Cfr. Bato Comicus
apud eundem, p. 163. b. Lib. iv. c. 17. § 55.

Serm. XXIV. § 5. p. 625.--"Lysander was [Greek: panourgos]."--Plutarch, Lysand. c. 7.

NOTE ON TAYLOR'S HOLY DYING.

(Eden's Edit.)

Cap. III. Sect. 7. § 7. p. 340.--"When men saw the graves of Calatinus, of the Servilii, the
Scipios, the Metelli, did ever any man amongst the wisest{6} Romans think them unhappy?" Translated
from Cicero (Tusc. Disc. 1. c. 7. § 13.)

Cap. III. Sect. 8. § 6. p. 345.--"Brutus, ... when Furius came to cut his throat, after his
defeat by Anthony, he ran from it like a girl."--Valer. Max. ix. 13. § 3 Senec. Epist. 82.

J.E.B. MAYOR.

Marlborough College, May 13.

       *       *       *       *       *

UNPUBLISHED EPIGRAMS IN THE BRITISH MUSEUM.

I am not aware that the following epigrams have ever been printed. I transferred them to my
note-book some time ago from the letters of Mr. Martyn, a littérateur of temporary fame in
the first half of the eighteenth century, addressed to Dr. Birch; which are among the Birch
MSS. in the British Museum. Mr. Martyn, if I remember right, gives them as not his own.

Two epigrams on the coffins of Dr. Sacheverel and Sally Salisbury being found together in the
vault of St. Andrew's:--

  "Lo! to one grave consigned, of rival fame,
  A reverend Doctor and a wanton dame.
  Well for the world both did to rest retire,
  For each, while living, set mankind on fire."

  "A fit companion for a high-church priest;
  He non-resistance taught, and she profest."

CH.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON AUTHORS AND BOOKS, NO. 7.

The author of the volume of which I am about to give a character, from the Ms. of sir William
Musgrave, seems to be the person who is described by Gough as "Arthur Dobbs, Esq. of Castle
Dobbs, promoter of the discovery of the N.W. passage." The note may interest both historians
and collectors of books.

    AN ESSAY on the trade and improvement of
      Ireland. By Arthur Dobbs, Esq. Dublin,
      1729-31. 8vo.

    "This volume contains both the parts of the work and is a most
    curious collection of facts and accounts respecting the
    population revenue and trade of Ireland; and I believe it is
    scarce, as I have not often met with it, nor do I remember to
    have heard it quoted on either side during the warm disputes
    about the commercial intercourse between England and Ireland in
    the year 1785." [W. Musgrave.]

I procured this volume from the collection of Mr. Heber, vii. 1682.--Sir William Musgrave was
a Trustee of the British Museum, and bequeathed near two thousand volumes to that incomparable
establishment. He was partial to biography, and gave much assistance to Granger. His Adversaria
and Obituary, I often consult. The latter work is an excellent specimen of well-applied assiduity.
Ob. 1800.

BOLTON CORNEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

+Queries+

PUNISHMENT OF DEATH BY BURNING.

Judging from the astonishment with which I learned from an eye-witness the circumstance, I
think that some of your readers will be surprised to learn that, within the memory of witnesses
still alive, a woman was burnt to death under sentence of the judge of assize, for the murder
of her husband.

This crime--petty treason--was formerly punished with fire and faggot; and the repeal of the
law is mentioned by Lord Campbell in a note to his life of one of our recent chancellors, but
I have not his work to refer to.

The post to which this woman was bound stood, till recently, in a field adjoining Winchester.

She was condemned to be burnt at the stake; and a marine, her paramour and an accomplice in
the murder, was condemned to be hanged.

A gentleman lately deceased told me the circumstances minutely. I think that he had been at
the trial, but I know that he was at the execution, and saw the wretched woman fixed to the
stake, fire put to the faggots, and her body burnt. But I know two persons still alive who
were present at her execution, and I endeavoured, in 1848, to ascertain from one of them the
date of this event, and "made a note" of his answer, which was to this effect:--

    "I can't recollect the year; but I remember the circumstance well.
    It was about sixty-five years ago. I was there alone with the
    crowd. I sat on my father's shoulder, and saw them bring her and
    the marine to the field. They fixed her neck by a rope to the
    stake, and then set fire to the faggots, and burnt her."

She was probably strangled by this rope.

One Query which I would ask is, Was this execution at Winchester, in 1783 (or thereabouts),
the last instance in England? and another is, Are you aware of any other instance in the latter
part of the last century?

E.S.S.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

CORNELIS DREBBEL.

In a very curious little book, entitled Kronÿcke van Alemaer, and published in that town anno
1645, I read the following particulars about Cornelis Drebbel, a native of the same city.

Being justly renowned as a natural philosopher, and having made great progress in mechanics,{7}
our Drebbel was named tutor of the young Prince of Austria, by the emperor Ferdinandus II.;
an office which he fulfilled so well, that he was afterwards chosen councillor to his Majesty,
and honoured with a rich pension for past services. But, alas! in the year 1620, Prague, the
place he dwelt in, was taken by Frederick, then king of Bohemia, several members of the imperial
council were imprisoned, and some of them even put to death.

Bereft of every thing he possessed, a prisoner as well as the others, poor Drebbel would perhaps
have undergone the same lot if the High Mighty States of the United Provinces had not sent
a message to the King of England, asking him to interfere in their countryman's favour. They
succeeded in their benevolent request for his English Majesty obtained at last from his son-in-law,
the Dutch philosopher's liberation, who (I don't exaggerate) was made a present of to the British
king; maybe as a sort of lion, which the king of Morocco had never yet thought of bestowing
upon the monarch as a regal offering.

Drebbel, however, did not forget how much he owed to the intercession of King James, and, to
show his gratitude, presented him with an object of very peculiar make. I will try to give
you an exact version of its not very clear description in the Dutch book.

    "A glass or crystal globe, wherein he blew or made a perpetual
    motion by the power of the four elements. For every thing which
    (by the force of the elements) passes, in a year, on the surface
    of the earth (sic!) could be seen to pass in this cylindrical
    wonder in the shorter lapse of twenty-four hours. Thus were
    marked by it, all years, months, days, hours; the course of the
    sun, moon, planets, and stars, &c. It made you understand what
    cold is, what the cause of the primum mobile, what the first
    principle of the sun, how it moves the firmament, all stars, the
    moon, the sea, the surface of the earth, what occasions the ebb,
    flood, thunder, lightning, rain, wind, and how all things wax and
    multiply, &c.,--as every one can be informed of by Drebbel's own
    works; we refer the curious to his book, entitled Eeuwige
    Beweginghe (Perpetual Motion)."

Can this instrument have been a kind of Orrery?

    "He built a ship, in which one could row and navigate under
    water, from Westminster to Greenwich, the distance of two Dutch
    miles; even five or six miles, as far as one pleased. In this
    boat, a person could see under the surface of the water, and
    without candlelight, as much as he needed to read in the Bible or
    any other book. Not long ago, this remarkable ship was yet to be
    seen lying on the Thames or London river.

    "Aided by some instruments of his own manufacture, Drebbel could
    make it rain, lighten, and thunder at every time of the year, so
    that you would have sworn it came in a natural way from heaven.

    "By means of other instruments, he could, in the midst of summer,
    so much refrigerate the atmosphere of certain places, that you
    would have thought yourself in the very midst of winter. This
    experiment he did once on his Majesty's request, in the great
    Hall of Westminster; and although a hot summer day had been
    chosen by the King, it became so cold in the Hall, that James and
    his followers took to their heels in hasty flight.

    "With a certain instrument, he could draw an incredible quantity
    of water out of a well or river.

    "By his peculiar ingenuity, he could, at all times of the year,
    even in the midst of winter, hatch chickens and ducklings without
    using hens or ducks.

    "He made instruments, by means of which were seen pictures and
    portraits; for instance, he could show you kings, princes,
    nobles, although residing at that moment in foreign countries.
    And there was no paint nor painter's work to be seen, so that you
    saw a picture in appearance, but not in reality."

Perhaps a magic lantern?

    "He could make a glass, that placed in the dark near him or
    another, drew the light of a candle, standing at the other end of
    a long room, with such force, that the glass near him reflected
    so much light as to enable him to see to read perfectly."

Was this done by parallel parabolical mirrors?

    "He could make a plane glass without grinding it on either side,
    in which people saw themselves reflected seven times.

    "He invented all these and many other curiosities, too long to
    relate, without the aid of the black art; but by natural
    philosophy alone, if we may believe the tongues whose eyes
    saw it. By these experiments, he so gained the King's favour, his
    Majesty granted him a pension of 2000 guilders. He died in
    London, anno 1634, the sixtieth year of his age."

Thus writes the Alkmaar chronicler. If you, or any of your learned correspondents, can elucidate
the history of the instruments made by my countryman, he will much oblige all scientific antiquarians,
and me, though not a Dr. Heavybottom, especially. I need not make apologies for my bad English,
and hope none of your many readers will criticise it in a Dutch periodical.

JANUS DOUSA.

Amsterdam, April, 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

VERSES ATTRIBUTED TO CHARLES YORKE.

I have in my possession a MS. book, in his own handwriting, of the late Rev. MARTIN STAFFORD
SMITH of Bath, formerly chaplain to BISHOP WARBURTON, containing, amongst other matter, a series
of letters, and extracts of letters, from the amiable and gifted, but unfortunate, CHARLES
YORKE, to Bishop Warburton. At the close of this series, is the following note and extract:--

    "Verses transcribed from the original, in Mr. C. Yorke's own
    writing, among his letters to Bishop Warburton; probably
    manuscript, and certainly his own composition: written from the
    Shades."

      "Stript to the naked soul, escaped from clay,
      From doubts unfetter'd, and dissolv'd in day,
      Unwarm'd by vanity, unreach'd by strife,
      And all my hopes and fears thrown off with life,--{8}
      Why am I charm'd by Friendship's fond essays,
      And, tho' unbodied, conscious of thy praise?
      Has pride a portion in the parted soul?
      Does passion still the formless mind controul?
      Can gratitude out-pant the silent breath,
      Or a friend's sorrow pierce the glooms of death?
      No; 'tis a spirit's nobler taste of bliss,
      That feels the worth it left, in proofs like this;
      That not its own applause but thine approves,
      Whose practice praises, and whose virtue loves;
      Who lov'st to crown departed friends with fame,
      Then dying late, shalt all thou gav'st reclaim."

It is my own impression, as well as that of an eminent critic to whom I communicated these
lines, that they have been printed. If any contributor to "NOTES AND QUERIES" can tell where
they are to be found, or can throw any light on their authorship, it will gratify

THE EDITOR OF BP. WARBURTON'S LITERARY REMAINS.

Bath, May 18. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

CULTIVATION OF GEOMETRY IN LANCASHIRE.

It has been a frequent subject of remark, that geometry in its purest form has been cultivated
in the northern counties, but more especially in Lancashire, with extraordinary ardour and
success; and this by a class of men placed in a position the most unpropitious that can be
conceived for the study--by operatives of the humblest class, and these chiefly weavers. The
geometrical labours of these men would have gladdened the hearts of Euclid, Apollonius and
Archimedes, and would have been chronicled by Pappus with his usual truthfulness and judicious
commendation; had they only but so laboured in Greece, antecedently to, or cotemporarily with,
those "fathers of geometry," instead of in modern England, cotemporarily with the Hargreaves,
the Peels, and the Arkwrights. Yet not one in a thousand of your readers, perhaps, has ever
heard of these men; and the visible traces of their existence and labours are very few, scarce,
and scattered. A vague general statement respecting the prevalence of geometrical studies amongst
the "middle-classes" of England was made by Playfair in the Edinburgh Review many years ago,
which is quite calculated to mislead the reader; and the subject was dwelt upon at some length,
and eloquently, by Harvey, at the British Association in 1831. Attention has been more recently
directed to this subject by two living geometers--one in the Philosophical Magazine, and the
other in the Mechanics'; but they both have wholly untouched a question of primary importance--even
almost unmentioned:--it is, how, when, where, and by whom, was this most unlikely direction
given to the minds of these men?

An answer to this question would form an important chapter in the history of human development,
and throw much light upon the great educational questions of the present day. It may furnish
useful hints for legislation, and would be of singular aid to those who were appointed to work
out legislative objects in a true spirit. It cannot be doubted that a succinct account of the
origin of this taste, and of the influences by which it has been maintained even to the present
hour, would be a subject of interest to most of your readers, quite irrespective the greater
or less importance and difficulty of the studies themselves, as the result would show how knowledge
cannot only be effectively diffused but successfully extended under circumstances apparently
the most hopeless.

Nor does Manchester stand as the only instance, for the weavers of Spitalfields display precisely
the same singular phenomenon. What is still more singular is, that the same class in both localities
have shown the same ardent devotion to natural history, and especially to Botany; although
it is to be remarked that, whilst the botanists of Spitalfields have been horticulturists,
those of Manchester have confined themselves more to English field flowers, the far more worthy
and intellectual of the two.

We could add a "Note" here and there on some points arising out of this question; but our want
of definite and complete information, and of the means of gaining it (except through you),
compels us to leave the subject to others, better qualified for its discussion. Pray, sir,
open your pages to the question, and oblige, your ever obedient servants,

PEN-AND-INK.

Hill Top, May 27, 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

ASINORUM SEPULTURA.

In former times it was the practice, upon the demise of those who died under sentence of excommunication,
not merely to refuse interment to their bodies in consecrated ground, but to decline giving
them any species of interment at all. The corpse was placed upon the surface of the earth,
and there surrounded and covered over with stones. It was blocked up, "imblocatus," and this
mode of disposing of dead bodies was designated "Asinorum Sepultura." Ducange gives more than
one instance, viz., "Sepultura asini sepeliantur"--"ejusque corpus exanime asinorum accipiat
sepulturam."

Wherefore was this mode of disposing of the dead bodies called "an ass's sepulture?" It is
not sufficient to say that the body of a human being was buried like that of a beast, for then
the term would be general and not particular; neither can I imagine that Christian writers
used the phrase for the purpose of repudiating the accusation preferred against them by Pagans,
of worshipping an ass. (See Baronius, ad. an. 201. §21.) The dead carcasses{9} of dogs and
hounds were sometimes attached to the bodies of criminals. (See Grinds, Deutsche Rechte Alterthum,
pp. 685, 686.) I refer to this to show that there must have been some special reason for the
term "asinorum sepultura". That reason I would wish to have explained; Ducange does not give
it, he merely tells what was the practice; and the attention of Grimm, it is plain, from his
explanation of the "unehrliches begräbnis" (pp. 726, 727, 728.), was not directed towards it.

W.B. MACCABE.

       *       *       *       *       *

+Minor Queries.+

Ransom of an English Nobleman.--At page 28. vol. ii. of the Secret History of the Court of
James I., Edinburgh, 1811 (a reprint), occurs the following:--

