The huge man caught the spirit of his commander's order. In a twinkling he had the boy astride
of his neck with the kettle-drum resting on his head, and then the rattling music began. Clark
followed, pointing onward with his sword. The half frozen and tottering soldiers sent up a
shout that went back to where Captain Bowman was bringing up the rear under orders to shoot
every man that straggled or shrank from duty.

Now came a time when not a mouthful of food was left. A whole day they floundered on, starving,
growing fainter at every step, the temperature falling, the ice thickening. They camped on
high land; and next morning they heard Hamilton's distant sunrise gun boom over the water.

"One half-ration for the men," said Clark, looking disconsolately in the direction whence the
sound had come. "Just five mouthfuls apiece, even, and I'll have Hamilton and his fort within
forty-eight hours."

"We will have the provisions, Colonel, or I will die trying to get them," Beverley responded
"Depend upon me."

They had constructed some canoes in which to transport the weakest of the men.

"I will take a dugout and some picked fellows. We will pull to the wood yonder, and there we
shall find some kind of game which has been forced to shelter from the high water."

It was a cheerful view of a forlorn hope. Clark grasped the hand extended by Beverley and they
looked encouragement into each other's eyes.

Oncle Jazon volunteered to go in the pirogue. He was ready for anything, everything.

"I can't shoot wo'th a cent," he whined, as they took their places in the cranky pirogue; "but
I might jes' happen to kill a squir'l or a elephant or somepin 'nother."

"Very well," shouted Clark in a loud, cheerful voice, when they had paddled away to a considerable
distance, "bring the meat to the woods on the hill yonder," pointing to a distant island-like
ridge far beyond the creeping flood. "We'll be there ready to eat it!"

He said this for the ears of his men. They heard and answered with a straggling but determined
chorus of approval. They crossed the rolling current of the Wabash by a tedious process of
ferrying, and at last found themselves once more wading in back-water up to their armpits,
breaking ice an inch thick as they went. It was the closing struggle to reach the high wooded
lands. Many of them fell exhausted; but their stronger comrades lifted them, holding their
heads above water, and dragged them on.

Clark, always leading, always inspiring, was first to set foot on dry land. He shouted triumphantly,
waved his sword, and then fell to helping the men out of the freezing flood. This accomplished,
he ordered fires built; but there was not a soldier of them all whose hands could clasp an
ax-handle, so weak and numbed with cold were they. He was not to be baffled, however. If fire
could not be had, exercise must serve its purpose. Hastily pouring some powder into his hand
he dampened it and blacked his face. "Victory, men, victory!" he shouted, taking off his hat
and beginning to leap and dance. "Come on! We'll have a war dance and then a feast, as soon
as the meat arrives that I have sent for. Dance! you brave lads, dance! Victory! victory!"

The strong men, understanding their Colonel's purpose, took hold of the delicate ones; and
the leaping, the capering, the tumult of voices and the stamping of slushy moccasins with which
they assaulted that stately forest must have frightened every wild thing thereabout into a
deadly rigor, dark's irrepressible energy and optimism worked a veritable charm upon his faithful
but almost dying companions in arms. Their trust in him made them feel sure that food would
soon be forthcoming. The thought afforded a stimulus more potent than wine; it drove them into
an ecstasy of frantic motion and shouting which soon warmed them thoroughly.

It is said that fortune favors the brave. The larger meaning of the sentence may be given thus:
God guards those who deserve His protection. History tells us that just when Clark halted his
command almost in sight of Vincennes--just when hunger was about to prevent the victory so
close to his grasp--a party of his scouts brought in the haunch of a buffalo captured from
some Indians. The scouts were Lieutenant Beverley and Oncle Jazon. And with the meat they brought
Indian kettles in which to cook it.

With consummate forethought Clark arranged to prevent his men doing themselves injury by bolting
their food or eating it half-cooked. Broth was first made and served hot; then small bits of
well broiled steak were doled out, until by degrees the fine effect of nourishment set in,
and all the command felt the fresh courage of healthy reaction.

"I ain't no gin'ral, nor corp'ral, nor nothin'," remarked Oncle Jazon to Colonel Clark, "but
'f I's you I'd h'ist up every dad dinged ole flag in the rig'ment, w'en I got ready to show
myself to 'em, an' I'd make 'em think, over yander at the fort, 'at I had 'bout ninety thousan'
men. Hit'd skeer that sandy faced Gov'nor over there till he'd think his back-bone was a comin'
out'n 'im by the roots."

Clark laughed, but his face showed that the old man's suggestion struck him forcibly and seriously.

"We'll see about that presently, Oncle Jazon. Wait till we reach the hill yonder, from which
the whole town can observe our manoeuvres, then we'll try it, maybe."

Once more the men were lined up, the roll-call gone through with satisfactorily, and the question
put: "Are we ready for another plunge through the mud and water?"

The answer came in the affirmative, with a unanimity not to be mistaken. The weakest heart
of them all beat to the time of the charge step. Again Clark and Beverley clasped hands and
took the lead.

When they reached the next high ground they gazed in silence across a slushy prairie plot to
where, on a slight elevation, old Vincennes and Fort Sackville lay in full view.

Beverley stood apart. A rush of sensations affected him so that he shook like one whose strength
is gone. His vision was blurred. Fort and town swimming in a mist were silent and still. Save
the British flag twinkling above Hamilton's headquarters, nothing indicated that the place
was not deserted. And Alice? With the sweet name's echo Beverley's heart bounded high, then
sank fluttering at the recollection that she was either yonder at the mercy of Hamilton, or
already the victim of an unspeakable cruelty. Was it weakness for him to lift his clasped hands
heavenward and send up a voiceless prayer?

While he stood thus Oncle Jazon came softly to his side and touched his arm. Beverley started.

"The nex' thing'll be to shoot the everlastin' gizzards outen 'em, won't it?" the old man inquired.
"I'm jes' a eetchin' to git a grip onto that Gov'nor. Ef I don't scelp 'em I'm a squaw."

Beverley drew a deep breath and came promptly back from his dream. It was now Oncle Jazon's
turn to assume a reflective, reminiscent mood. He looked about him with an expression of vague
half tenderness on his shriveled features.

"I's jes' a thinkin' how time do run past a feller," he presently remarked. "Twenty-seven years
ago I camped right here wi' my wife--ninth one, ef I 'member correct--jes' fresh married to
'r; sort o' honey-moon. 'Twus warm an' sunshiny an' nice. She wus a poorty squaw, mighty poorty,
an' I wus as happy as a tomtit on a sugar-trough. We b'iled sap yander on them nobs under the
maples. It wus glor'us. Had some several wives 'fore an' lots of 'm sence; but she wus sweetes'
of 'm all. Strange how a feller 'members sich things an' feels sort o' lonesome like!"

The old man's mouth drooped at the corners and he hitched up his buckskin trousers with a ludicrous
suggestion of pathos in every line of his attitude. Unconsciously he sidled closer to Beverley,
remotely feeling that he was giving the young man very effective sympathy, well knowing that
Alice was the sweet burden of his thoughts. It was thus Oncle Jazon honestly tried to fortify
his friend against what probably lay in store for him.

But Beverley failed to catch the old man's crude comfort thus flung at him. The analogy was
not apparent. Oncle Jazon probably felt that his kindness had been ineffectual, for he changed
his tone and added:

"But I s'pose a young feller like ye can't onderstan' w'at it is to love a 'oman an' 'en hev
'er quit ye for 'nother feller, an' him a buck Injin. Wall, wall, wall, that's the way it do
go! Of all the livin' things upon top o' this yere globe, the mos' onsartin', crinkety-crankety
an' slippery thing is a young 'oman 'at knows she's poorty an' 'at every other man in the known
world is blind stavin' crazy in love wi' 'er, same as you are. She'll drop ye like a hot tater
'fore ye know it, an' 'en look at ye jes' pine blank like she never knowed ye afore in her
life. It's so, Lieutenant, shore's ye'r born. I know, for I've tried the odd number of 'em,
an' they're all jes' the same."

By this time Beverley's ears were deaf to Oncle Jazon's querulous, whining voice, and his thoughts
once more followed his wistful gaze across the watery plain to where the low roofs of the creole
town appeared dimly wavering in the twilight of eventide, which was fast fading into night.
The scene seemed unsubstantial; he felt a strange lethargy possessing his soul; he could not
realize the situation. In trying to imagine Alice, she eluded him, so that a sort of cloudy
void fell across his vision with the effect of baffling and benumbing it. He made vain efforts
to recall her voice, things that she had said to him, her face, her smiles; all he could do
was to evoke an elusive, tantalizing, ghostly something which made him shiver inwardly with
a haunting fear that it meant the worst, whatever the worst might be. Where was she? Could
she be dead, and this the shadowy message of her fate?

Darkness fell, and a thin fog began to drift in wan streaks above the water. Not a sound, save
the suppressed stir of the camp, broke the wide, dreary silence. Oncle Jazon babbled until
satisfied that Beverley was unappreciative, or at least unresponsive.

"Got to hev some terbacker," he remarked, and shambled away in search of it among his friends.

A little later Clark approached hastily and said:

"I have been looking for you. The march has begun. Bowman and Charleville are moving; come,
there's no time to lose."

CHAPTER XVIII

A DUEL BY MOONLIGHT

When Hamilton, after running some distance, saw that he was gaining upon Alice and would soon
overtake her, it added fresh energy to his limbs. He had quickly realized the foolishness of
what he had done in visiting the room of his prisoner at so late an hour in the night. What
would his officers and men think? To let Alice escape would be extremely embarrassing, and
to be seen chasing her would give good ground for ridicule on the part of his entire command.
Therefore his first thought, after passing through the postern and realizing fully what sort
of predicament threatened him, was to recapture her and return her to the prison room in the
block-house without attracting attention. This now promised to be an easier task than he had
at first feared; for in the moonlight, which on account of the dispersing clouds, was fast
growing stronger, he saw her seem to falter and weaken. Certainly her flight was checked and
took an eccentric turn, as if some obstruction had barred her way. He rushed on, not seeing
that, as Alice swerved, a man intervened. Indeed he was within a few strides of laying his
hand on her when he saw her make the strange movement. It was as if, springing suddenly aside,
she had become two persons instead of one. But instantly the figures coincided again, and in
becoming taller faced about and confronted him.

Hamilton stopped short in his tracks. The dark figure was about five paces from him. It was
not Alice, and a sword flashed dimly but unmistakably in a ray of the moon. The motion visible
was that of an expert swordsman placing himself firmly on his legs, with his weapon at guard.

Alice saw the man in her path just in time to avoid running against him. Lightly as a flying
bird, when it whisks itself in a short semicircle past a tree or a bough, she sprang aside
and swung around to the rear of him, where she could continue her course toward the town. But
in passing she recognized him. It was Father Beret, and how grim he looked! The discovery was
made in the twinkling of an eye, and its effect was instantaneous, not only checking the force
of her flight, but stopping her and turning her about to gaze before she had gone five paces
farther.

Hamilton's nerve held, startled as he was, when he realized that an armed man stood before
him. Naturally he fell into the error of thinking that he had been running after this fellow
all the way from the little gate, where, he supposed, Alice had somehow given him the slip.
It was a mere flash of brain-light, so to call it, struck out by the surprise of this curious
discovery. He felt his bellicose temper leap up furiously at being balked in a way so unexpected
and withal so inexplicable. Of course he did not stand there reasoning it all out. The rush
of impressions came, and at the same time he acted with promptness. Changing the rapier, which
he held in his right hand, over into his left, he drew a small pistol from the breast of his
coat and fired. The report was sharp and loud; but it caused no uneasiness or inquiry in the
fort, owing to the fact that Indians invariably emptied their guns when coming into the town.

Hamilton's aim, although hasty, was not bad. The bullet from his weapon cut through Father
Beret's clothes between his left arm and his body, slightly creasing the flesh on a rib. Beyond
him it struck heavily and audibly. Alice fell limp and motionless to the soft wet ground, where
cold puddles of water were splintered over with ice. She lay pitifully crumpled, one arm outstretched
in the moonlight. Father Beret heard the bullet hit her, and turned in time to see her stagger
backward with a hand convulsively pressed over her heart. Her face, slightly upturned as she
reeled, gave the moon a pallid target for its strengthening rays. Sweet, beautiful, its rigid
features flashed for a second and then half turned away from the light and went down.

Father Beret uttered a short, thin cry and moved as if to go to the fallen girl, but just then
he saw Hamilton's sword pass over again into his right hand, and knew that there was no time
for anything but death or fight. The good priest did not shirk what might have made the readiest
of soldiers nervous. Hamilton was known to be a great swordsman and proud of the distinction.
Father Beret had seen him fence with Farnsworth in remarkable form, touching him at will, and
in ministering to the men in the fort he had heard them talk of the Governor's incomparable skill.

A priest is, in perhaps all cases but the last out of a thousand, a man of peace, not to be
forced into a fight; but the exceptional one out of the ten hundred it is well not to stir
up if you are looking for an easy victim. Hamilton was in the habit of considering every antagonist
immediately conquerable. His domineering spirit could not, when opposed, reckon with any possibility
of disaster. As he sprang toward Father Beret there was a mutual recognition and, we speak
guardedly, something that sounded exactly like an exchange of furious execrations. As for Father
Beret's words, they may have been a mere priestly formula of objurgation.

The moon was accommodating. With a beautiful white splendor it entered a space of cloudless
sky, where it seemed to slip along the dusky blue surface among the stars, far over in the west.

"It's you, is it?" Hamilton exclaimed between teeth that almost crushed one another. "You prowling
hypocrite of hell!"

Father Beret said something. It was not complimentary, and it sounded sulphurous, if not profane.
Remember, however, that a priest can scarcely hope to be better than Peter, and Peter did actually
make the Simon pure remark when hard pressed. At all events Father Beret said something with
vigorous emphasis, and met Hamilton half way.

Both men, stimulated to the finger-tips by a draught of imperious passion, fairly plunged to
the inevitable conflict. Ah, if Alice could have seen her beautiful weapons cross, if she could
have heard the fine, far-reaching clink, clink, clink, while sparks leaped forth, dazzling
even in the moonlight; if she could have noted the admirable, nay, the amazing, play, as the
men, regaining coolness to some extent, gathered their forces and fell cautiously to the deadly
work, it would have been enough to change the cold shimmer of her face to a flash of warm delight.
For she would have understood every feint, longe, parry, and seen at a glance how Father Beret
set the pace and led the race at the beginning. She would have understood; for Father Beret
had taught her all she knew about the art of fencing.

Hamilton quickly felt, and with a sense of its strangeness, the priest's masterly command of
his weapon. The surprise called up all his caution and cleverness. Before he could adjust himself
to such an unexpected condition he came near being spitted outright by a pretty pass under
his guard. The narrow escape, while it put him on his best mettle, sent a wave of superstition
through his brain. He recalled what Barlow had jocularly said about the doings of the devil-priest
or priest-devil at Roussillon place on that night when the patrol guard attempted to take Gaspard
Roussillon. Was this, indeed, Father Beret, that gentle old man, now before him, or was it
an avenging demon from the shades?

The thought flitted electrically across his mind, while he deftly parried, feinted, longed,
giving his dark antagonist all he could do to meet the play. Priest or devil, he thought, he
cared not which, he would reach its vitals presently. Yet there lingered with him a haunting
half-fear, or tenuous awe, which may have aided, rather than hindered his excellent swordsmanship.

Under foot it was slushy with mud, water and ice, the consistency varying from a somewhat solid
crust to puddles that half inundated Hamilton's boots and quite overflowed Father Beret's moccasins.
An execrable field for the little matter in hand. They gradually shifted position. Now it was
the Governor, then the priest, who had advantage as to the light. For some time Father Beret
seemed quite the shiftier and surer fighter, but (was it his age telling on him?) he lost perceptibly
in suppleness. Still Hamilton failed to touch him. There was a baffling something in the old
man's escape now and again from what ought to have been an inevitable stroke. Was it luck?
It seemed to Hamilton more than that--a sort of uncanny evasion. Or was it supreme mastery,
the last and subtlest reach of the fencer's craft?

Youth forced age slowly backward in the struggle, which at times took on spurts so furious
that the slender blades, becoming mere glints of acicular steel, split the moonlight back and
forth, up and down, so that their meetings, following one another in a well-nigh continuous
stroke, sent a jarring noise through the air. Father Beret lost inch by inch, until the fighting
was almost over the body of Alice; and now for the first time Hamilton became aware of that
motionless something with the white, luminous face in profile against the ground; but he did
not let even that unsettle his fencing gaze, which followed the sunken and dusky eyes of his
adversary. A perspiration suddenly flooded his body, however, and began to drip across his
face. His arm was tiring. A doubt crept like a chill into his heart. Then the priest appeared
to add a cubit to his stature and waver strangely in the soft light. Behind him, low against
the sky, a wide winged owl shot noiselessly across just above the prairie.

The soul of a true priest is double: it is the soul of a saint and the soul of a worldly man.
What is most beautiful in this duality is the supreme courage with which the saintly spirit
attacks the worldly and so often heroically masters it. In the beginning of the fight Father
Beret let a passion of the earthly body take him by storm. It was well for Governor Henry Hamilton
that the priest was so wrought upon as to unsettle his nerves, otherwise there would have been
an evil heart impaled midway of Father Beret's rapier. A little later the saintly spirit began
to assert itself, feebly indeed, but surely. Then it was that Father Beret seemed to be losing
agility for a while as he backstepped away from Hamilton's increasing energy of assault. In
his heart the priest was saying: "I will not murder him. I must not do that. He deserves death,
but vengeance is not mine. I will disarm him." Step by step he retreated, playing erratically
to make an opening for a trick he meant to use.

It was singularly loose play, a sort of wavering, shifty, incomprehensible show of carelessness,
that caused Hamilton to entertain a doubt, which was really a fear, as to what was going to
happen; for, notwithstanding all this neglect of due precaution on the priest's part, to touch
him seemed impossible, miraculously so, and every plan of attack dissolved into futility in
the most maddening way.

"Priest, devil or ghost!" raged Hamilton, with a froth gathering around his mouth; "I'll kill
you, or--"

He made a longe, when his adversary left an opening which appeared absolutely beyond defence.
It was a quick, dextrous, vicious thrust. The blade leaped toward Father Beret's heart with
a twinkle like lightning.

At that moment, although warily alert and hopeful that his opportunity was at hand, Father
Beret came near losing his life; for as he side-stepped and easily parried Hamilton's thrust,
which he had invited, thinking to entangle his blade and disarm him, he caught his foot in
Alice's skirt and stumbled, nearly falling across her. It would have been easy for Hamilton
to run him through, had he instantly followed up the advantage. But the moonlight on Alice's
face struck his eyes, and by that indirect ray of vision which is often strangely effective,
he recognized her lying there. It was a disconcerting thing for him, but he rallied instantly
and sprang aside, taking a new position just in time to face Father Beret again. A chill crept
up his back. The horror which he could not shake off enraged him beyond measure. Gathering
fresh energy, he renewed the assault with desperate steadiness the highest product of absolutely
molten fury.

Father Beret felt the dangerous access of power in his antagonist's arm, and knew that a crisis
had arrived. He could not be careless now. Here was a swordsman of the best school calling
upon him for all the skill and strength and cunning that he could command. Again the saintly
element was near being thrown aside by the worldly in the old man's breast. Alice lying there
seemed mutely demanding that he avenge her. A riotous something in his blood clamored for a
quick and certain act in this drama by moonlight--a tragic close by a stroke of terrible yet
perfectly fitting justice.

There was but the space of a breath for the conflict in the priest's heart, yet during that
little time he reasoned the case and quoted scripture to himself.

"Domine, percutimus in gladio?" rang through his mind. "Lord, shall we smite with the sword?"

Hamilton seemed to make answer to this with a dazzling display of skill. The rapiers sang a
strange song above the sleeping girl, a lullaby with coruscations of death in every keen note.

Father Beret was thinking of Alice. His brain, playing double, calculated with lightning swiftness
the chances and movements of that whirlwind rush of fight, while at the same time it swept
through a retrospect of all the years since Alice came into his life. How he had watched her
grow and bloom; how he had taught her, trained her mind and soul and body to high things, loved
her with a fatherly passion unbounded, guarded her from the coarse and lawless influences of
her surroundings. Like the tolling of an infinitely melancholy bell, all this went through
his breast and brain, and, blending with a furious current of whatever passions were deadly
dangerous in his nature, swept as a storm bearing its awful force into his sword-arm.

The Englishman was a lion, the priest a gladiator. The stars aloft in the vague, dark, yet
splendid, amphitheater were the audience. It was a question. Would the thumbs go down or up?
Life and death held the chances even; but it was at the will of Heaven, not of the stars. "Hoc
habet" must follow the stroke ordered from beyond the astral clusters and the dusky blue.

Hamilton pressed, nay rushed, the fight with a weight and at a pace which could not last. But
Father Beret withstood him so firmly that he made no farther headway; he even lost some ground
a moment later.

"You damned Jesuit hypocrite!" he snarled; "you lowest of a vile brotherhood of liars!"

Then he rushed again, making a magnificent show of strength, quickness and accuracy. The sparks
hissed and crackled from the rasping and ringing blades.

Father Beret was, in truth, a Jesuit, and as such a zealot; but he was not a liar or a hypocrite.
Being human, he resented an insult. The saintly spirit in him was strong, yet not strong enough
to breast the indignation which now dashed against it. For a moment it went down.

"Liar and scoundrel yourself!" he retorted, hoarsely forcing the words out of his throat. "Spawn
of a beastly breed!"

Hamilton saw and felt a change pass over the spirit of the old priest's movements. Instantly
the sword leaping against his own seemed endowed with subtle cunning and malignant treachery.
Before this it had been difficult enough to meet the fine play and hold fairly even; now he
was startled and confused; but he rose to the emergency with admirable will power and cleverness.

"Murderer of a poor orphan girl!" Father Beret added with a hot concentrated accent; "death
is too good for you."

Hamilton felt nearer his grave than ever before in all his wild experience, for somehow doom,
shadowy and formless, like the atmosphere of an awful dream, enmisted those words; but he was
no weakling to quit at the height of desperate conflict. He was strong, expert, and game to
the middle of his heart.

"I'll add a traitor Jesuit to my list of dead," he panted forth, rising yet again to the extremest
tension of his power.

As he did this Father Beret settled himself as you have seen a mighty horse do in the home
stretch of a race. Both men knew that the moment had arrived for the final act in their impromptu
play. It was short, a duel condensed and crowded into fifteen seconds of time, and it was rapid
beyond the power of words to describe. A bystander, had there been one, could not have seen
what was finally done or how it was done. Father Beret's sword seemed to be revolving--it was
a halo in front of Hamilton for a mere point of time. The old priest seemed to crouch and then
make a quick motion as if about to leap backward. A wrench and a snip, as of something violently
jerked from a fastening, were followed by a semicircular flight of Hamilton's rapier over Father
Beret's head to stick in the ground ten feet behind him. The duel was over, and the whole terrible
struggle had occupied less than three minutes.

With his wrist strained and his fingers almost broken, Hamilton stumbled forward and would
have impaled himself had not Father Beret turned the point of his weapon aside as he lowered it.

"Surrender, or die!"

That was a strange order for a priest to make, but there could be no mistaking its authority
or the power behind it. Hamilton regained his footing and looked dazed, wheezing and puffing
like a porpoise, but he clearly understood what was demanded of him.

"If you call out I'll run you through," Father Beret added, seeing him move his lips as if
to shout for help.

The level rapier now reinforced the words. Hamilton let the breath go noiselessly from his
mouth and waved his hand in token of enforced submission.

"Well, what do you want me to do?" he demanded after a short pause. "You seem to have me at
your mercy. What are your terms?"

Father Beret hesitated. It was a question difficult to answer.

"Give me your word as a British officer that you will never again try to harm any person, not
an open, armed enemy, in this town."

Hamilton's gorge rose perversely. He erected himself with lofty reserve and folded his arms.
The dignity of a Lieutenant Governor leaped into him and took control. Father Beret correctly
interpreted what he saw.

"My people have borne much," he said, "and the killing of that poor child there will be awfully
avenged if I but say the word. Besides, I can turn every Indian in this wilderness against
you in a single day. You are indeed at my mercy, and I will be merciful if you will satisfy
my demand."

He was trembling with emotion while he spoke and the desire to kill the man before him was
making a frightful struggle with his priestly conscience; but conscience had the upper hand.
Hamilton stood gazing fixedly, pale as a ghost, his thoughts becoming more and more clear and
logical. He was in a bad situation. Every word that Father Beret had spoken was true and went
home with force. There was no time for parley or subterfuge; the sword looked as if, eager
to find his heart, it could not be held back another moment. But the wan, cold face of the
girl had more power than the rapier's hungry point. It made an abject coward of him.

"I am willing to give you my word," he presently said. "And let me tell you," he went on more
rapidly, "I did not shoot at her. She was behind you."

"Your word as a British officer?"

Hamilton again stiffened and hesitated, but only for the briefest space, then said:

"Yes, my word as a British officer."

Father Beret waved his hand with impatience.

"Go, then, back to your place in the fort and disturb, my people no more. The soul of this
poor little girl will haunt you forever. Go!"

Hamilton stood a little while gazing at the face of Alice with the horrible wistfulness of
remorse. What would he not have given to rub his eyes and find it all a dream?

He turned away; a cloud scudded across the moon; here and yonder in the dim town cocks crowed
with a lonesome, desultory effect.

Father Beret plucked up the rapier that he had wrenched from Hamilton's hand. It suggested
something.

"Hold!" he called out, "give me the scabbard of this sword." Hamilton, who was striding vigorously
in the direction of the fort, turned about as the priest hastened to him.

"Give me the scabbard of this rapier; I want it. Take it off."

The command was not gently voiced. A hoarse, half-whisper winged every word with an imperious
threat.

Hamilton obeyed. His hands were not firm; his fingers fumbled nervously; but he hurried, and
Father Beret soon had the rapier sheathed and secured at his belt beside its mate.

A good and true priest is a burden-bearer. His motto is: Alter alterius onera portate; bear
ye one another's burdens. His soul is enriched with the cast-off sorrows of those whom he relieves.
Father Beret scarcely felt the weight of Alice's body when he lifted it from the ground, so
heavy was the pressure of his grief. All that her death meant, not only to him, but to every
person who knew her, came into his heart as the place of refuge consecrated for the indwelling
of pain. He lifted her and bore her as far toward Roussillon place as he could; but his strength
fell short just in front of the little Bourcier cottage, and half dead he staggered across
the veranda to the door, where he sank exhausted.

After a breathing spell he knocked. The household, fast asleep, did not hear; but he persisted
until the door was opened to him and his burden.

Captain Farnsworth unclosed his bloodshot eyes, at about eight o'clock in the morning, quite
confused as to his place and surroundings. He looked about drowsily with a sheepish half-knowledge
of having been very drunk. A purring in his head and a dull ache reminded him of an abused
stomach. He yawned and stretched himself, then sat up, running a hand through his tousled hair.
Father Beret was on his knees before the cross, still as a statue, his clasped hands extended
upward.

Farnsworth's face lighted with recognition, and he smiled rather bitterly. He recalled everything
and felt ashamed, humiliated, self-debased. He had outraged even a priest's hospitality with
his brutish appetite, and he hated himself for it. Disgust nauseated his soul apace with the
physical sinking and squirming that grew upon him.

"I'm a shabby, worthless dog!" he muttered, with petulant accent; "why don't you kick me out,
Father?"

The priest turned a collapsed and bloodless gray face upon him, smiled in a tired, perfunctory
way, crossed himself absently and said:

"You have rested well, my son. Hard as the bed is, you have done it a compliment in the way
of sleeping. You young soldiers understand how to get the most out of things."

"You are too generous, Father, and I can't appreciate it. I know what I deserve, and you know
it, too. Tell me what a brute and fool I am; it will do me good. Punch me a solid jolt in the
ribs, like the one you gave me not long ago."

"Qui sine peccato est, primus lapidem mittat" said the priest. "Let him who is without sin
cast the first stone."

He had gone to the hearth and was taking from the embers an earthen saucer, or shallow bowl,
in which some fragrant broth simmered and steamed.

"A man who has slept as long as you have, my son, usually has a somewhat delicate appetite.
Now, here is a soup, not especially satisfying to the taste of a gourmet like yourself, but
possessing the soothing quality that is good for one just aroused from an unusual nap. I offer
it, my son, propter stomachum tuum, et frequentes tuas infirmitates (on account of thy stomach,
and thine often infirmities). This soup will go to the right spot."

While speaking he brought the hot bowl to Farnsworth and set it on the bedcover before him,
then fetched a big horn spoon.

The fragrance of pungent roots and herbs, blent with a savory waft of buffalo meat, greeted
the Captain's sense, and the anticipation itself cheered his aching throat. It made him feel
greedy and in a hurry. The first spoonful, a trifle bitter, was not so pleasant at the beginning,
but a moment after he swallowed it a hot prickling set in and seemed to dart through him from
extremity to extremity.

Slowly, as he ate, the taste grew more agreeable, and all the effects of his debauch disappeared.
It was like magic; his blood warmed and glowed, as if touched with mysterious fire.

"What is this in this soup, Father Beret, that makes it so searching and refreshing?" he demanded,
when the bowl was empty.

Father Beret shook his head and smiled drolly.

"That I cannot divulge, my son, owing to a promise I had to make to the aged Indian who gave
me the secret. It is the elixir of the Miamis. Only their consecrated medicine men hold the
recipe. The stimulation is but temporary."

Just then someone knocked on the door. Father Beret opened it to one of Hamilton's aides.

"Your pardon, Father, but hearing Captain Farnsworth's voice I made bold to knock."

"What is it, Bobby?" Farnsworth called out.

"Nothing, only the Governor has been having you looked for in every nook and corner of the
fort and town. You'd better report at once, or hell be having us drag the river for your body."

"All right, Lieutenant, go back and keep mum, that's a dear boy, and I'll shuffle into Colonel
Hamilton's august presence before many minutes."

The aide laughed and went his way whistling a merry tune.

"Now I am sure to get what I deserve, with usury at forty per cent in advance," said Farnsworth
dryly, shrugging his shoulders with undissembled dread of Hamilton's wrath. But the anticipation
was not realized. The Governor received Farnsworth stiffly enough, yet in a way that suggested
a suppressed desire to avoid explanations on the Captain's part and a reprimand on his own.
In fact, Hamilton was hoping that something would turn up to shield him from the effect of
his terrible midnight adventure, which seemed the darker the more he thought of it. He had
a slow, numb conscience, lying deep where it was hard to reach, and when a qualm somehow entered
it he endured in secret what most men would have cast off or confessed. He was haunted, if
not with remorse, at least by a dread of something most disagreeable in connection with what
he had done. Alice's white face had impressed itself indelibly on his memory, so that it met
his inner vision at every turn. He was afraid to converse with Farnsworth lest she should come
up for discussion; consequently their interview was curt and formal.

It was soon discovered that Alice had escaped from the stockade, and some show of search was
made for her by Hamilton's order, but Farnsworth looked to it that the order was not carried
out. He thought he saw at once that his chief knew where she was. The mystery perplexed and
pained the young man, and caused him to fear all sorts of evil; but there was a chance that
Alice had found a safe retreat and he knew that nothing but ill could befall her if she were
discovered and brought back to the fort. Therefore his search for her became his own secret
and for his own heart's ease. And doubtless he would have found her; for even handicapped and
distorted love like his is lynx-eyed and sure on the track of its object; but a great event
intervened and swept away his opportunity.

Hamilton's uneasiness, which was that of a strong, misguided nature trying to justify itself
amid a confusion of unmanageable doubts and misgivings, now vented itself in a resumption of
the repairs he had been making at certain points in the fort. These he completed just in time
for the coming of Clark.

CHAPTER XIX

THE ATTACK

It has already been mentioned that Indians, arriving singly or in squads, to report at Hamilton's
headquarters, were in the habit of firing their guns before entering the town or the fort,
not only as a signal of their approach, but in order to rid their weapons of their charges
preliminary to cleaning them before setting out upon another scalp-hunting expedition. A shot,
therefore, or even a volley, heard on the outskirts of the village, was not a noticeable incident
in the daily and nightly experience of the garrison. Still, for some reason, Governor Hamilton
started violently when, just after nightfall, five or six rifles cracked sharply a short distance
from the stockade.

He and Helm with two other officers were in the midst of a game of cards, while a kettle, swinging
on a crane in the ample fire-place, sang a shrill promise of hot apple-jack toddy.

"By Jove!" exclaimed Farnsworth, who, although not in the game, was amusing himself with looking
on; "you jump like a fine lady! I almost fancied I heard a bullet hit you."

"You may all jump while you can," remarked Helm. "That's Clark, and your time's short--He'll
have this fort tumbling on your heads before daylight of to-morrow morning comes."

As he spoke he arose from his seat at the card table and went to look after the toddy, which,
as an expert, he had under supervision.

Hamilton frowned. The mention of Clark was disturbing. Ever since the strange disappearance
of Lieutenant Barlow he had nursed the fear that possibly Clark's scouts had captured him and
that the American forces might be much nearer than Kaskaskia. Besides, his nerves were unruly,
as they had been ever since the encounter with Father Beret; and his vision persisted in turning
back upon the accusing cold face of Alice, lying in the moonlight. One little detail of that
scene almost maddened him at times; it was a sheeny, crinkled wisp of warm looking hair looped
across the cheek in which he had often seen a saucy dimple dance when Alice spoke or smiled.
He was bad enough, but not wholly bad, and the thought of having darkened those merry eyes
and stilled those sweet dimples tore through him with a cold, rasping pang.

"Just as soon as this toddy is properly mixed and tempered," said Helm, with a magnetic jocosity
beaming from his genial face, "I'm going to propose a toast to the banner of Alice Roussillon,
which a whole garrison of British braves has been unable to take!"

"If you do I'll blow a hole through you as big as the south door of hell," said Hamilton, in
a voice fairly shaken to a husky quaver with rage. "You may do a great many insulting things;
but not that."

Helm was in a half stooping attitude with a ladle in one hand, a cup in the other. He had met
Hamilton's glowering look with a peculiarly innocent smile, as if to say: "What in the world
is the matter now? I never felt in a better humor in all my life. Can't you take a joke, I
wonder?" He did not speak, however, for a rattling volley of musket and rifle shots hit the
top of the clay-daubed chimney, sending down into the toddy a shower of soot and dirt.

In a wink every man was on his feet and staring.

"Gentlemen," said Helm, with an impressive oath, "that is Clark's soldiers, and they will take
your fort; but they ought not to have spoiled this apple toddy!"

"Oh, the devil!" said Hamilton, forcibly resuming a calm countenance, "it is only a squad of
drunken Indians coming in. We'll forego excitement; there's no battle on hand, gentlemen."

"I'm glad you think so, Governor Hamilton," Helm responded, "but I should imagine that I ought
to know the crack of a Kentucky rifle. I've heard one occasionally in my life. Besides, I got
a whiff of freedom just now."

"Captain Helm is right," observed Farnsworth. "That is an attack."

Another volley, this time nearer and more concentrated, convinced Hamilton that he was, indeed,
at the opening of a fight. Even while he was giving some hurried orders to his officers, a
man was wounded at one of the port-holes. Then came a series of yells, answered by a ripple
of sympathetic French shouting that ran throughout the town. The patrol guards came straggling
in, breathless with excitement. They swore to having seen a thousand men marching across the
water-covered meadows.

Hamilton was brave. The approach of danger stirred him like a trumpet-strain. His fighting
blood rose to full tide, and he gave his orders with the steadiness and commanding force of
a born soldier. The officers hastened to their respective positions. On all sides sounds indicative
of rapid preparations for the fight mingled into a confused strain of military energy. Men
marched to their places; cannon were wheeled into position, and soon enough the firing began
in good earnest.

Late in the afternoon a rumor of Clark's approach had gone abroad through the village; but
not a French lip breathed it to a friend of the British. The creoles were loyal to the cause
of freedom; moreover, they cordially hated Hamilton, and their hearts beat high at the prospect
of a change in masters at the fort. Every cabin had its hidden gun and supply of ammunition,
despite the order to disarm issued by Hamilton. There was a hustling to bring these forth,
which was accompanied with a guarded yet irrepressible chattering, delightfully French and
infinitely volatile.

"Tiens! je vais frotter mon fusil. J'ai vu un singe!" said Jaques Bourcier to his daughter,
the pretty Adrienne, who was coming out of the room in which Alice lay.

"I saw a monkey just now; I must rub up my gun!" He could not be solemn; not he. The thought
of an opportunity to get even with Hamilton was like wine in his blood.

If you had seen those hardy and sinewy Frenchmen gliding in the dusk of evening from cottage
to cottage, passing the word that the Americans had arrived, saying airy things and pinching
one another as they met and hurried on, you would have thought something very amusing and wholly
jocund was in preparation for the people of Vincennes.

There was a current belief in the town that Gaspard Roussillon never missed a good thing and
always somehow got the lion's share. He went out with the ebb to return on the flood. Nobody
was surprised, therefore, when he suddenly appeared in the midst of his friends, armed to the
teeth and emotionally warlike to suit the occasion. Of course he took charge of everybody and
everything. You could have heard him whisper a bowshot away.

"Taisons!" he hissed, whenever he met an acquaintance. "We will surprise the fort and scalp
the whole garrison. Aux armes! les Americains viennent d'arriver!"

At his own house he knocked and called in vain. He shook the door violently; for he was thinking
of the stores under the floor, of the grimy bottles, of the fragrant Bordeaux--ah, his throat,
how it throbbed! But where was Madame Roussillon? Where was Alice? "Jean! Jean!" he cried,
forgetting all precaution, "come here, you scamp, and let me in this minute!"

A profoundly impressive silence gave him to understand that his home was deserted.

"Chiff! frightened and gone to stay with Madame Godere, I suppose--and I so thirsty! Bah! hum,
hum, apres le vin la bataille, ziff!"

He kicked in the door and groped his way to the liquors. While he hastily swigged and smacked
he heard the firing begin with a crackling, desultory volley. He laughed jovially, there in
the dark, between draughts and deep sighs of enjoyment.

"Et moi aussi," he murmured, like the vast murmur of the sea, "I want to be in that dance!
Pardonnez, messieurs. Moi, je veux danser, s'il vous plait."

And when he had filled himself he plunged out and rushed away, wrought up to the extreme fighting
pitch of temper. Diable! if he could but come across that Lieutenant Barlow, how he would smash
him and mangle him! In magnifying his prowess with the lens of imagination he swelled and puffed
as he lumbered along.

The firing sounded as if it were between the fort and the river; but presently when one of
Hamilton's cannon spoke, M. Roussillon saw the yellow spike of flame from its muzzle leap directly
toward the church, and he thought it best to make a wide detour to avoid going between the
firing lines. Once or twice he heard the whine of a stray bullet high overhead. Before he had
gone very far he met a man hurrying toward the fort. It was Captain Francis Maisonville, one
of Hamilton's chief scouts, who had been out on a reconnoissance and, cut off from his party
by some of Clark's forces, was trying to make his way to the main gate of the stockade.

M. Roussillon knew Maisonville as a somewhat desperate character, a leader of Indian forays
and a trader in human scalps. Surely the fellow was legitimate prey.

"Ziff! diable de gredin!" he snarled, and leaping upon him choked him to the ground, "Je vais
vous scalper immediatement!"

Clark's plan of approach showed masterly strategy. Lieutenant Bailey, with fourteen regulars,
made a show of attack on the east, while Major Bowman led a company through the town, on a
line near where Main street in Vincennes is now located, to a point north of the stockade.
Charleville, a brave creole, who was at the head of some daring fellows, by a brilliant dash
got position under cover of a natural terrace at the edge of the prairie, opposite the fort's
southwestern angle. Lieutenant Beverley, in whom the commander placed highest confidence, was
sent to look for a supply of ammunition, and to gather up all the Frenchmen in the town who
wished to join in the attack. Oncle Jazon and ten other available men went with him.

They all made a great noise when they felt that the place was completely invested. Nor can
we deny, much as we would like to, the strong desire for vengeance which raised those shouting
voices and nerved those steady hearts to do or die in an undertaking which certainly had a
desperate look. Patriotism of the purest strain those men had, and that alone would have borne
them up; but the recollection of smouldering cabin homes in Kentucky, of women and children
murdered and scalped, of men brave and true burned at the stake, and of all the indescribable
outrages of Indian warfare incited and rewarded by the commander of the fort yonder, added
to patriotism the terrible urge of that dark passion which clamors for blood to quench the
fire of wrath. Not a few of those wet, half-frozen, emaciated soldiers of freedom had experienced
the soul rending shock of returning from a day's hunting in the forest to find home in ashes
and loved ones brutally murdered and scalped, or dragged away to unspeakable outrage under
circumstances too harrowing for description, the bare thought of which turns our blood cold,
even at this distance. Now the opportunity had arrived for a stroke of retaliation. The thought
was tremendously stimulating.

Beverley, with the aid of Oncle Jazon, was able to lead his little company as far as the church
before the enemy saw him. Here a volley from the nearest angle of the stockade had to be answered,
and pretty soon a cannon began to play upon the position.

"We kin do better some'rs else," was Oncle Jazon's laconic remark flung back over his shoulder,
as he moved briskly away from the spot just swept by a six-pounder. "Come this yer way, Lieutenant.
I hyer some o' the fellers a talkin' loud jes' beyant Legrace's place. They ain't no sort o'
sense a tryin' to hit anything a shootin' in the dark nohow."

When they reached the thick of the town there was a strange stir in the dusky streets. Men
were slipping from house to house, arming themselves and joining their neighbors. Clark had
sent an order earlier in the evening forbidding any street demonstration by the inhabitants;
but he might as well have ordered the wind not to blow or the river to stand still. Oncle Jazon
knew every man whose outlines he could see or whose voice he heard. He called each one by name:

"Here, Roger, fall in!--Come Louis, Alphonse, Victor, Octave--venez ici, here's the American
army, come with me!" His rapid French phrases leaped forth as if shot from a pistol, and his
shrill voice, familiar to every ear in Vincennes, drew the creole militiamen to him, and soon
Beverley's company had doubled its numbers, while at the same time its enthusiasm and ability
to make a noise had increased in a far greater proportion. In accordance with an order from
Clark they now took position near the northeast corner of the stockade and began firing, although
in the darkness there was but little opportunity for marksmanship.

Oncle Jazon had found citizens Legrace and Bosseron, and through them Clark's men were supplied
with ammunition, of which they stood greatly in need, their powder having got wet during their
long, watery march. By nine o'clock the fort was completely surrounded, and from every direction
the riflemen and musketeers were pouring in volley after volley. Beverley with his men took
the cover of a fence and some houses sixty yards from the stockade. Here to their surprise
they found themselves below the line of Hamilton's cannon, which, being planted on the second
floor of the fort, could not be sufficiently depressed to bear upon them. A well directed musket
fire, however, fell from the loopholes of the blockhouses, the bullets rattling merrily against
the cover behind which the attacking forces lay.

Beverley was thinking of Alice during every moment of all this stir and tumult He feared that
she might still be a prisoner in the fort exposed to the very bullets that his men were discharging
at every crack and cranny of those loosely constructed buildings. Should he ever see her again?
Would she care for him? What would be the end of all this terrible suspense? Those remote forebodings
of evils, formless, shadowy, ineffable, which have harried the lover's heart since time began,
crowded all pleasant anticipations out of his mind.

Clark, in passing hurriedly from company to company around the line, stopped for a little while
when he found Beverley.

"Have you plenty of ammunition?" was his first inquiry.

"A mighty sight more'n we kin see to shoot with," spoke up Oncle Jazon. "It's a right smart
o' dad burn foolishness to be wastin' it on nothin'; seems like to me 'at we'd better set the
dasted fort afire an' smoke the skunks out!"

"Speak when you are spoken to, my man," said the Colonel a trifle hotly, and trying by a sharp
scrutiny to make him out in the gloom where he crouched.

"Ventrebleu! I'm not askin' YOU, Colonel Clark, nor no other man, when I shill speak. I talks
whenever I gits ready, an' I shoots jes' the same way. So ye'd better go on 'bout yer business
like a white man! Close up yer own whopper jawed mouth, ef ye want anything shet up!"

"Oho! is that you, Jazon? You're so little I didn't know you! Certainly, talk your whole damned
under jaw off, for all I care," Clark replied, assuming a jocose tone. Then turning again to
Beverley: "Keep up the firing and the noise; the fort will be ours in the morning."

"What's the use of waiting till morning?" Beverley demanded with impatience. "We can tear that
stockade to pieces with our hands in half an hour."

"I don't think so, Lieutenant. It is better to play for the sure thing. Keep up the racket,
and be ready for 'em if they rush out. We must not fail to capture the hair-buyer General."

He passed on, with something cheerful to say whenever he found a squad of his devoted men.
He knew how to humor and manage those independent and undisciplined yet heroically brave fellows.
What to see and hear, what to turn aside as a joke, what to insist upon with inflexible mastery,
he knew by the fine instantaneous sense of genius. There were many men of Oncle Jazon's cast,
true as steel, but refractory as flint, who could not be dominated by any person, no matter
of what stamp or office. To them an order was an insult; but a suggestion pleased and captured
them. Strange as it may seem, theirs was the conquering spirit of America--the spirit which
has survived every turn of progress and built up the great body of our independence.

Beverley submitted to Clark's plan with what patience he could, and all night long fired shot
for shot with the best riflemen in his squad. It was a fatiguing performance, with apparently
little result beyond forcing the garrison now and again to close the embrasures, thus periodically
silencing the cannon. Toward the close of the night a relaxation showed itself in the shouting
and firing all round the line. Beverley's men, especially the creoles, held out bravely in
the matter of noise; but even they flagged at length, their volatility simmering down to desultory
bubbling and half sleepy chattering and chaffing.

Beverley leaned upon a rude fence, and for a time neglected to reload his hot rifle. Of course
he was thinking of Alice,--he really could not think in any other direction; but it gave him
a shock and a start when he presently heard her name mentioned by a little Frenchman near him
on the left.

"There'll never be another such a girl in Post Vincennes as Alice Roussillon," the fellow said
in the soft creole patois, "and to think of her being shot like a dog!"

"And by a man who calls himself a Governor, too!" said another. "Ah, as for myself, I'm in
favor of burning him alive when we capture him. That's me!"

"Et moi aussi," chimed in a third voice. "That poor girl must be avenged. The man who shot
her must die. Holy Virgin, but if Gaspard Roussillon were only here!"

"But he is here; I saw him just after dark. He was in great fighting temper, that terrible
man. Ouf! but I should not like to be Colonel Hamilton and fall in the way of that Gaspard
Roussillon!"

"Morbleu! I should say not. You may leave me out of a chance like that! I shouldn't mind seeing
Gaspard handle the Governor, though. Ah, that would be too good! He'd pay him up for shooting
Mademoiselle Alice."

Beverley could scarcely hold himself erect by the fence; the smoky, foggy landscape swam round
him heavy and strange. He uttered a groan, which brought Oncle Jazon to his side in a hurry.

"Qu' avez-vous? What's the matter?" the old man demanded with quick sympathy. "Hev they hit
ye? Lieutenant, air ye hurt much?"

Beverley did not hear the old man's words, did not feel his kindly touch.

"Alice! Alice!" he murmured, "dead, dead!"

"Ya-as," drawled Oncle Jazon, "I hearn about it soon as I got inter town. It's a sorry thing,
a mighty sorry thing. But mebby I won't do a little somepin' to that--"

Beverley straightened himself and lifted his gun, forgetting that he had not reloaded it since
firing last. He leveled it at the fort and touched the trigger. Simultaneously with his movement
an embrasure opened and a cannon flashed, its roar flanked on either side by a crackling of
British muskets. Some bullets struck the fence and flung splinters into Oncle Jazon's face.
A cannon ball knocked a ridge pole from the roof of a house hard by, and sent it whirling through
the air.

"Ventrebleu!--et apres? What the devil next? Better knock a feller's eyes out!" the old man
cried. "I ain't a doin' nothin' to ye!"

He capered around rubbing his leathery face after the manner of a scalded monkey. Beverley
was struck in the breast by a flattened and spent ball that glanced from a fence-picket. The
shock caused him to stagger and drop his gun; but he quickly picked it up and turned to his
companion.

"Are you hurt, Oncle Jazon?" he inquired. "Are you hurt?"

"Not a bit--jes' skeert mos' into a duck fit. Thought a cannon ball had knocked my whole dang
face down my throat! Nothin' but a handful o' splinters in my poorty count'nance, makin' my
head feel like a porc'-pine. But I sort o' thought I heard somepin' give you a diff."

"Something did hit me," said Beverley, laying a hand on his breast, "but I don't think it was
a bullet. They seem to be getting our range at last. Tell the men to keep well under cover.
They must not expose themselves until we are ready to charge."

The shock had brought him back to his duty as a leader of his little company, and with the
funeral bell of all his life's happiness tolling in his agonized heart he turned afresh to
directing the fire upon the block-house.

About this time a runner came from Clark with an order to cease firing and let a returning
party of British scouts under Captain Lamothe re-enter the fort unharmed. A strange order it
seemed to both officers and men; but it was implicitly obeyed. Clark's genius here made another
fine strategic flash. He knew that unless he let the scouts go back into the stockade they
would escape by running away, and might possibly organize an army of Indians with which to
succor Hamilton. But if they were permitted to go inside they could be captured with the rest
of the garrison; hence his order.

A few minutes passed in dead silence; then Captain Lamothe and his party marched close by where
Beverley's squad was lying concealed. It was a difficult task to restrain the creoles, for
some of them hated Lamothe. Oncle Jazon squirmed like a snake while they filed past all unaware
that an enemy lurked so near. When they reached the fort, ladders were put down for them and
they began to clamber over the wall, crowding and pushing one another in wild haste. Oncle
Jazon could hold in no longer.

"Ya! ya! ya!" he yelled. "Look out! the ladder is a fallin' wi' ye!"

Then all the lurking crowd shouted as one man, and, sure enough, down came a ladder--men and
all in a crashing heap.

"Silence! silence!" Beverley commanded; but he could not check the wild jeering and laughing,
while the bruised and frightened scouts hastily erected their ladder again, fairly tumbling
over one another in their haste to ascend, and so cleared the wall, falling into the stockade
to join the garrison.

"Ventrebleu!" shrieked Oncle Jazon. "They've gone to bed; but we'll wake 'em up at the crack
o' day an' give 'em a breakfas' o' hot lead!"

Now the fighting was resumed with redoubled spirit and noise, and when morning came, affording
sufficient light to bring out the "bead sights" on the Kentucky rifles, the matchless marksmen
in Clark's band forced the British to close the embrasures and entirely cease trying to use
their cannon; but the fight with small arms went merrily on until the middle of the forenoon.

Meantime Gaspard Roussillon had tied Francis Maisonville's hands fast and hard with the strap
of his bullet-pouch.

"Now, I'll scalp you," he said in a rumbling tone, terrible to hear. And with his words out
came his hunting knife from its sheath.

"O have mercy, my dear Monsieur Roussillon!" cried the panting captive; "have mercy!"

"Mercy! yes, like your Colonel's, that's what you'll get. You stand by that forban, that scelerat,
that bandit, and help him. Oh, yes, you'll get mercy! Yes, the same mercy that he showed to
my poor little Alice! Your scalp, Monsieur, if you please! A small matter; it won't hurt much!"

"But, for the sake of old friendship, Gaspard, for the sake--"

"Ziff! poor little Alice!"

"But I swear to you that I--"

"Tout de meme, Monsieur, je vais vous scalper maintenant."

In fact he had taken off a part of Maisonville's scalp, when a party of soldiers, among whom
was Maisonville's brother, a brave fellow and loyal to the American cause, were attracted by
his cries and came to his rescue.

M. Roussillon struggled savagely, insisting upon completing his cruel performance; but he was
at last overpowered, partly by brute force and partly by the pleading of Maisonville's brother,
and made to desist. The big man wept with rage when he saw the bleeding prisoner protected.
"Eh bien! I'll keep what I've got," he roared, "and I'll take the rest of it next time."

He shook the tuft of hair at Maisonville and glared like a mad bull.

Two or three other members of Lamothe's band were captured about the same time by some of the
French militiamen; and Clark, when on his round cheering and directing his forces, discovered
that these prisoners were being used as shields. Some young creoles, gay with drink and the
stimulating effect of fight, had bound the poor fellows and were firing from behind them! Of
course the commander promptly put an end to this cruelty; but they considered it exquisite
fun while it lasted. It was in broad daylight, and they knew that the English in the fort could
see what they were doing.

"It's shameful to treat prisoners in this way," said Clark. "I will not permit it. Shoot the
next man that offers to do such a thing!"

One of the creole youths, a handsome, swarthy Adonis in buckskin, tossed his shapely head with
a debonair smile and said:

"To be sure, mon Colonel! but what have they been doing to us? We have amused them all winter;
it's but fair that they should give us a little fun now."

Clark shrugged his broad shoulders and passed on. He understood perfectly what the people of
Vincennes had suffered under Hamilton's brutal administration.

At nine o'clock an order was passed to cease firing, and a flag of truce was seen going from
Clark's headquarters to the fort. It was a peremptory demand for unconditional surrender. Hamilton
refused, and fighting was fiercely resumed from behind rude breastworks meantime erected. Every
loop-hole and opening of whatever sort was the focus into which the unerring backwoods rifles
sent their deadly bullets. Men began to fall in the fort, and every moment Hamilton expected
an assault in force on all sides of the stockade. This, if successful, would mean inevitable
massacre. Clark had warned him of the terrible consequences of holding out until the worst
should come. "For," said he in his note to the Governor, "if I am obliged to storm, you may
depend upon such treatment as is justly due to a murderer."

Historians have wondered why Hamilton became so excited and acted so strangely after receiving
the note. The phrase, "justly due to a murderer," is the key to the mystery. When he read it
his heart sank and a terrible fear seized him. "Justly due to a murderer!" ah, that calm, white,
beautiful girlish face, dead in the moonlight, with the wisp of shining hair across it! "Such
treatment as is justly due to a murderer!" Cold drops of sweat broke out on his forehead and
a shiver went through his body.

During the truce Clark's weary yet still enthusiastic besiegers enjoyed a good breakfast prepared
for them by the loyal dames of Vincennes. Little Adrienne Bourcier was one of the handmaidens
of the occasion. She brought to Beverley's squad a basket, almost as large as herself, heaped
high with roasted duck and warm wheaten bread, while another girl bore two huge jugs of coffee,
fragrant and steaming hot. The men cheered them lustily and complimented them without reserve,
so that before their service was over their faces were glowing with delight.

And yet Adrienne's heart was uneasy, and full of longing to hear something of Rene de Ronville.
Surely some one of her friends must know something about him. Ah, there was Oncle Jazon! Doubtless
he could tell her all that she wanted to know. She lingered, after the food was distributed,
and shyly inquired.

"Hain't seed the scamp," said Oncle Jazon, only he used the patois most familiar to the girl's
ear. "Killed an' scelped long ago, I reckon."

His mouth was so full that he spoke mumblingly and with utmost difficulty. Nor did he glance
at Adrienne, whose face took on as great pallor as her brown complexion could show.

Beverley ate but little of the food. He sat apart on a piece of timber that projected from
the rough breastwork and gave himself over to infinite misery of spirit, which was trebled
when he took Alice's locket from his bosom, only to discover that the bullet which struck him
had almost entirely destroyed the face of the miniature.

He gripped the dinted and twisted case and gazed at it with the stare of a blind man. His heart
almost ceased to beat and his breath had the rustling sound we hear when a strong man dies
of a sudden wound. Somehow the defacement of the portrait was taken by his soul as the final
touch of fate, signifying that Alice was forever and completely obliterated from his life.
He felt a blur pass over his mind. He tried in vain to recall the face and form so dear to
him; he tried to imagine her voice; but the whole universe was a vast hollow silence. For a
long while he was cold, staring, rigid; then the inevitable collapse came, and he wept as only
a strong man can who is hurt to death, yet cannot die.

Adrienne approached him, thinking to speak to him about Rene; but he did not notice her, and
she went her way, leaving beside him a liberal supply of food.

CHAPTER XX

ALICE'S FLAG

Governor Hamilton received the note sent him by Colonel Clark and replied to it with curt dignity;
but his heart was quaking. As a soldier he was true to the military tradition, and nothing
could have induced him to surrender his command with dishonor.

"Very brave words," said Helm, when Hamilton read the note to him, "but you'll sing a milder
tune before many minutes, or you and your whole garrison will perish in a bloody heap. Listen
to those wild yells! Clark has enough men to eat you all up for breakfast. You'd better be
reasonable and prudent. It's not bravery to court massacre."

Hamilton turned away without a word and sent the message; but Helm saw that he was excited,
and could be still further wrought up.

"You are playing into the hands of your bitterest enemies, the frog-eaters," he went on. "These
creoles, over whom you've held a hot poker all winter, are crazy to be turned loose upon you;
and you know that they've got good cause to feel like giving you the extreme penalty. They'll
give it to you without a flinch if they get the chance. You've done enough."

Hamilton whirled about and glared ferociously.

"Helm, what do you mean?" he demanded in a voice as hollow as it was full of desperate passion.

The genial Captain laughed, as if he had heard a good joke.

"You won't catch any fish if you swear, and you look blasphemous," he said with the lightness
of humor characteristic of him at all times. "You'd better say a prayer or two. Just reflect
a moment upon the awful sins you have committed and--"

A crash of coalescing volleys from every direction broke off his levity. Clark was sending
his response to Hamilton's lofty note. The guns of freedom rang out a prophecy of triumph,
and the hissing bullets clucked sharply as they entered the solid logs of the walls or whisked
through an aperture and bowled over a man. The British musketeers returned the fire as best
they could, with a courage and a stubborn coolness which Helm openly admired, although he could
not hide his satisfaction whenever one of them was disabled.

"Lamothe and his men are refusing to obey orders," said Farnsworth a little later, hastily
approaching Hamilton, his face flushed and a gleam of hot anger in his eyes. "They're in a
nasty mood; I can do nothing with them; they have not fired a shot."

"Mutiny?" Hamilton demanded.

"Not just that. They say they do not wish to fire on their kinsmen and friends. They are all
French, you know, and they see their cousins, brothers, uncles and old acquaintances out there
in Clark's rabble. I can do nothing with them."

"Shoot the scoundrels, then!"

"It will be a toss up which of us will come out on top if we try that. Besides, if we begin
a fight inside, the Americans will make short work of us."

"Well, what in hell are we to do, then?"

"Oh, fight, that's all," said Farnsworth apathetically turning to a small loop-hole and leveling
a field glass through it. "We might make a rush from the gates and stampede them," he presently
added. Then he uttered an exclamation of great surprise.

"There's Lieutenant Beverley out there," he exclaimed.

"You're mistaken, you're excited," Hamilton half sneeringly remarked, yet not without a shade
of uneasiness in his expression. "You forget, sir."

"Look for yourself, it's easily settled," and Farnsworth proffered the glass. "He's there,
to a certainty, sir."

"I saw Beverley an hour ago," said Helm. "I knew all the time that he'd be on hand."

It was a white lie. Captain Helm was as much surprised as his captors at what he heard; but
he could not resist the temptation to be annoying.

Hamilton looked as Farnsworth directed, and sure enough, there was the young Virginian Lieutenant,
standing on a barricade, his hat off, cheering his men with a superb show of zeal. Not a hair
of his head was missing, so far as the glass could be relied upon to show.

Oncle Jazon's quick old eyes saw the gleam of the telescope tube in the loop-hole.

"I never could shoot much," he muttered, and then a little bullet sped with absolute accuracy
from his disreputable looking rifle and shattered the object-lens, just as Hamilton moved to
withdraw the glass, uttering an ejaculation of intense excitement.

"Such devils of marksmen!" said he, and his face was haggard. "That infernal Indian lied."

"I could have told you all the time that the scalp Long-Hair brought to you was not Beverley's,"
said Helm indifferently. "I recognized Lieutenant Barlow's hair as soon as I saw it."

This was another piece of off-hand romance. Helm did not dream that he was accidentally sketching
a horrible truth.

"Barlow's!" exclaimed Farnsworth.

"Yes, Barlow's, no mistake--"

Two more men reeled from a port-hole, the blood spinning far out of their wounds. Indeed, through
every aperture in the walls the bullets were now humming like mad hornets.

"Close that port-hole!" stormed Hamilton; then turning to Farnsworth he added: "We cannot endure
this long. Shut up every place large enough for a bullet to get through. Go all around, give
strict orders to all. See that the men do not foolishly expose themselves. Those ruffians out
there have located every crack."

His glimpse of Beverley and the sinister remark of Helm had completely unmanned him before
his men fell. Now it rushed upon him that if he would escape the wrath of the maddened creoles
and the vengeance of Alice's lover, he must quickly throw himself upon the mercy of Clark.
It was his only hope. He chafed inwardly, but bore himself with stern coolness. He presently
sought Farnsworth, pulled him aside and suggested that something must be done to prevent an
assault and a massacre. The sounds outside seemed to forebode a gathering for a desperate rush,
and in his heart he felt all the terrors of awful anticipation.

"We are completely at their mercy, that is plain," he said, shrugging his shoulders and gazing
at the wounded men writhing in their agony. "What do you suggest?"

Captain Farnsworth was a shrewd officer. He recollected that Philip Dejean, justice of Detroit,
was on his way down the Wabash from that post, and probably near at hand, with a flotilla of
men and supplies. Why not ask for a few days of truce? It could do no harm, and if agreed to,
might be their salvation. Hamilton jumped at the thought, and forthwith drew up a note which
he sent out with a white flag. Never before in all his military career had he been so comforted
by a sudden cessation of fighting. His soul would grovel in spite of him. Alice's cold face
now had Beverley's beside it in his field of inner vision--a double assurance of impending
doom, it seemed to him.

There was short delay in the arrival of Colonel Clark's reply, hastily scrawled on a bit of
soiled paper. The request for a truce was flatly refused; but the note closed thus:

"If Mr. Hamilton is Desirous of a Conferance with Col. Clark he will meet him at the Church
with Captn. Helms."

The spelling was not very good, and there was a redundancy of capital letters; yet Hamilton
understood it all; and it was very difficult for him to conceal his haste to attend the proposed
conference. But he was afraid to go to the church--the thought chilled him. He could not face
Father Beret, who would probably be there. And what if there should be evidences of the funeral?--what
if?--he shuddered and tried to break away from the vision in his tortured brain.

He sent a proposition to Clark to meet him on the esplanade before the main gate of the fort;
but Clark declined, insisting upon the church. And thither he at last consented to go. It was
an immense brace to his spirit to have Helm beside him during that walk, which, although but
eighty yards in extent, seemed to him a matter of leagues. On the way he had to pass near the
new position taken up by Beverley and his men. It was a fine test of nerve, when the Lieutenant's
eyes met those of the Governor. Neither man permitted the slightest change of countenance to
betray his feelings. In fact, Beverley's face was as rigid as marble; he could not have changed it.

But with Oncle Jazon it was a different affair. He had no dignity to preserve, no fine military
bearing to sustain, no terrible tug of conscience, no paralyzing grip of despair on his heart.
When he saw Hamilton going by, bearing himself so superbly, it affected the French volatility
in his nature to such an extent that his tongue could not be controlled.

"Va t'en, bete, forban, meurtrier! Skin out f'om here! beast, robber, murderer!" he cried,
in his keen screech-owl voice. "I'll git thet scelp o' your'n afore sundown, see 'f I don't!
Ye onery gal-killer an' ha'r buyer!"

The blood in Hamilton's veins caught no warmth from these remarks; but he held his head high
and passed stolidly on, as if he did not hear a word. Helm turned the tail of an eye upon Oncle
Jazon and gave him a droll, quizzical wink of approval. In response the old man with grotesque
solemnity drew his buckhorn handled knife, licked its blade and returned it to its sheath,--a
bit of pantomime well understood and keenly enjoyed by the onlooking creoles.

"Putois! coquin!" they jeered, "goujat! poltron!"

Beverley heard the taunting racket, but did not realize it, which was well enough, for he could
not have restrained the bitter effervescence. He stood like a statue, gazing fixedly at the
now receding figure, the lofty, cold-faced man in whom centered his hate of hates. Clark had
requested him to be present at the conference in the church; but he declined, feeling that
he could not meet Hamilton and restrain himself. Now he regretted his refusal, half wishing
that--no, he could not assassinate an enemy under a white flag. In his heart he prayed that
there would be no surrender, that Hamilton would reject every offer. To storm the fort and
revel in butchering its garrison seemed the only desirable thing left for him in life.

Father Beret was, indeed, present at the church, as Hamilton had dreaded; and the two duelists
gave each other a rapier-like eye-thrust. Neither spoke, however, and Clark immediately demanded
a settlement of the matter in hand. He was brusque and imperious to a degree, apparently rather
anxious to repel every peaceful advance.

It was a laconic interview, crisp as autumn ice and bitter as gallberries. Colonel Clark had
no respect whatever for Hamilton, to whom he had applied the imperishable adjective "hair-buyer
General." On the other hand Governor Hamilton, who felt keenly the disgrace of having to equalize
himself officially and discuss terms of surrender with a rough backwoodsman, could not conceal
his contempt of Clark.

The five men of history, Hamilton, Helm, Hay, Clark and Bowman, were not distinguished diplomats.
They went at their work rather after the hammer-and-tongs fashion. Clark bluntly demanded unconditional
surrender. Hamilton refused. They argued the matter. Helm put in his oar, trying to soften
the situation, as was his custom on all occasions, and received from Clark a stinging reprimand,
with the reminder that he was nothing but a prisoner on parole, and had no voice at all in
settling the terms of surrender.

"I release him, sir," said Hamilton. "He is no longer a prisoner. I am quite willing to have
Captain Helm join freely in our conference."

"And I refuse to permit his acceptance of your favor," responded Clark. "Captain Helm, you
will return with Mr. Hamilton to the fort and remain his captive until I free you by force.
Meantime hold your tongue."

Father Beret, suave looking and quiet, occupied himself at the little altar, apparently altogether
indifferent to what was being said; but he lost not a word of the talk.

"Qui habet aures audiendi, audiat," he inwardly repeated, smiling blandly. "Gaudete in illa
die, et exultate!"

Hamilton rose to go; deep lines of worry creased his face; but when the party had passed outside,
he suddenly turned upon Clark and said:

"Why do you demand impossible terms of me?"

"I will tell you, sir," was the stern answer, in a tone in which there was no mercy or compromise.
"I would rather have you refuse. I desire nothing so much as an excuse to wreak full and bloody
vengeance on every man in that fort who has engaged in the business of employing savages to
scalp brave, patriotic men and defenseless women and children. The cries of the widows and
the fatherless on our frontiers require the blood of the Indian partisans at my hands. If you
choose to risk the massacre of your garrison to save those despicable red-handed partisans,
have your pleasure. What you have done you know better than I do. I have a duty to perform.
You may be able to soften its nature. I may take it into my head to send for some of our bereaved
women to witness my terrible work and see that it is well done, if you insist upon the worst."

Major Hay, who was Hamilton's Indian agent, now, with some difficulty clearing his throat,
spoke up.

"Pray, sir," said he, "who is it that you call Indian partisans?"

"Sir," replied Clark, seeing that his words had gone solidly home, "I take Major Hay to be
one of the principals."

This seemed to strike Hay with deadly force. "Doubtless, if the doughty American commander
had known more about the Governor's feelings just then, he would have added that an awful fear,
even greater than the Indian agent's, did more than anything else to congest the veins in his
face."

The parties separated without reaching an agreement; but the end had come. The terror in Hamilton's
soul was doubled by a wild scene enacted under the walls of his fort; a scene which, having
no proper place in this story, strong as its historical interest unquestionably is, must be
but outlined. A party of Indians returning from a scalping expedition in Kentucky and along
the Ohio, was captured on the outskirts of the town by some of Clark's men, who proceeded to
kill and scalp them within full view of the beleaguered garrison, after which their mangled
bodies were flung into the river.

If the British commander needed further wine of dread to fill his cup withal, it was furnished
by ostentatious marshaling of the American forces for a general assault. His spirit broke completely,
so that it looked like a godsend to him when Clark finally offered terms of honorable surrender,
the consummation of which was to be postponed until the following morning.

Confidence in a generous enemy! Abject fear of the vengeance just wreaked upon his savage emissaries
would have been the true statement. Beverley read the paper when Clark sent for him; but he
could not join in the extravagant delight of his fellow officers and their brave men. What
did all this victory mean to him? Hamilton to be treated as an honorable prisoner of war, permitted
to strut forth from the feat with his sword at his side, his head up--the scalp-buyer, the
murderer of Alice! What was patriotism to the crushed heart of a lover? Even if his vision
had been able to pierce the future and realize the splendor of Anglo-Saxon civilization which
was to follow that little triumph at Vincennes, what pleasure could it have afforded him? Alice,
Alice, only Alice; no other thought had influence, save the recurring surge of desire for vengeance
upon her murderer.

And yet that night Beverley slept, and so forgot his despair for many hours, even dreamed a
pleasant dream of home, where his childhood was spent, of the stately old house on the breezy
hill-top overlooking a sunny plantation, with a little river lapsing and shimmering through
it. His mother's dear arms were around him, her loving breath stirred his hair; and his stalwart,
gray-headed father sat on the veranda comfortably smoking his pipe, while away in the wide
fields the negroes sang at the plow and the hoe. Sweeter and sweeter grew the scene, softer
the air, tenderer the blending sounds of the water-murmur, leaf-rustle, bird-song, and slave-song,
until hand in hand he wandered with Alice in greening groves, where the air was trembling with
the ecstacy of spring.

A young officer awoke him with an order from Clark to go on duty at once with Captains Worthington
and Williams, who, under Colonel Clark himself, were to take possession of the fort. Mechanically
he obeyed. The sun was far up, shining between clouds of a leaden, watery hue, by the time
everything was ready for the important ceremony. Beside the main gate of the stockade two companies
of patriots under Bowman and McCarty were drawn up as guards, while the British garrison filed
out and was taken in charge. This bit of formality ended, Governor Hamilton, attended by some
of his officers, went back into the fort and the gate was closed.

Clark now gave orders that preparations be made for hauling down the British flag and hoisting
the young banner of liberty in its place, when everything should be ready for a salute of thirteen
guns from the captured battery.

Helm's round face was beaming. Plainly it showed that his happiness was supreme. He dared not
say anything, however; for Clark was now all sternness and formality; it would be dangerous
to take any liberties; but he could smile and roll his quid of tobacco from cheek to cheek.

Hamilton and Farnsworth, the latter slightly wounded in the left arm, which was bandaged, stood
together somewhat apart from their fellow officers, while preliminary steps for celebrating
their defeat and capture were in progress. They looked forlorn enough to have excited deep
sympathy under fairer conditions.

Outside the fort the creoles were beginning a noise of jubilation. The rumor of what was going
to be done had passed from mouth to mouth, until every soul in the town knew and thrilled with
expectancy. Men, women and children came swarming to see the sight, and to hear at close range
the crash of the cannon. They shouted, in a scattering way at first, then the tumult grew swiftly
to a solid rolling tide that seemed beyond all comparison with the population of Vincennes.
Hamilton heard it, and trembled inwardly, afraid lest the mob should prove too strong for the
guard.

One leonine voice roared distinctly, high above the noise. It was a sound familiar to all the
creoles,--that bellowing shout of Gaspard Roussillon's. He was roaming around the stockade,
having been turned back by the guard when he tried to pass through the main gate.

"They shut me out!" he bellowed furiously. "I am Gaspard Roussillon, and they shut me out,
me! Ziff! me voici! je vais entrer immediatement, moi!"

He attracted but little attention, however; the people and the soldiery were all too excited
by the special interest of the occasion, and too busy with making a racket of their own, for
any individual, even the great Roussillon, to gain their eyes or ears. He in turn scarcely
heard the tumult they made, so self-centered were his burning thoughts and feelings. A great
occasion in Vincennes and he, Gaspard Roussillon, not recognized as one of the large factors
in it! Ah, no, never! And he strode along the wall of the stockade, turning the corners and
heavily shambling over the inequalities till he reached the postern. It was not fastened, some
one having passed through just before him.

"Ziff!" he ejaculated, stepping into the area and shaking himself after the manner of a dusty
mastiff. "C'est moi! Gaspard Roussillon!" His massive under jaw was set like that of a vise,
yet it quivered with rage, a rage which was more fiery condensation of self-approval than anger.

Outside the shouting, singing and huzzahs gathered strength and volume, until the sound became
a hoarse roar. Clark was uneasy; he had overheard much of a threatening character during the
siege. The creoles were, he knew, justly exasperated, and even his own men had been showing
a spirit which might easily be fanned into a dangerous flame of vengeance. He was very anxious
to have the formalities of taking possession of the fort over with, so that he could the better
control his forces. Sending for Beverley he assigned him to the duty of hauling down the British
flag and running up that of Virginia. It was an honor of no doubtful sort, which under different
circumstances would have made the Lieutenant's heart glow. As it was, he proceeded without
any sense of pride or pleasure, moving as a mere machine in performing an act significant beyond
any other done west of the mountains, in the great struggle for American independence and the
control of American territory.

Hamilton stood a little way from the foot of the tall flag-pole, his arms folded on his breast,
his chin slightly drawn in, his brows contracted, gazing steadily at Beverley while he was
untying the halyard, which had been wound around the pole's base about three feet above the
ground. The American troops in the fort were disposed so as to form three sides of a hollow
square, facing inward. Oncle Jazon, serving as the ornamental extreme of one line, was conspicuous
for his outlandish garb and unmilitary bearing. The silence inside the stockade offered a strong
contrast to the tremendous roar of voices outside. Clark made a signal, and at the tap of a
drum, Beverley shook the ropes loose and began to lower the British colors. Slowly the bright
emblem of earth's mightiest nation crept down in token of the fact that a handful of back-woodsmen
had won an empire by a splendid stroke of pure heroism. Beverley detached the flag, and saluting,
handed it to Colonel Clark. Hamilton's breast heaved and his iron jaws tightened their pressure
until the lines of his cheeks were deep furrows of pain.

Father Beret, who had just been admitted, quietly took a place at one side near the wall. There
was a fine, warm, benignant smile on his old face, yet his powerful shoulders drooped as if
weighted down with a heavy load. Hamilton was aware when he entered, and instantly the scene
of their conflict came into his memory with awful vividness, and he saw Alice lying outstretched,
stark and, cold, the shining strand of hair fluttering across her pallid cheek. Her ghost overshadowed
him.

Just then there was a bird-like movement, a wing-like rustle, and a light figure flitted swiftly
across the area. All eyes were turned upon it. Hamilton recoiled, as pale as death, half lifting
his hands, as if to ward off a deadly blow, and then a gay flag was flung out over his head.
He saw before him the girl he had shot; but her beautiful face was not waxen now, nor was it
cold or lifeless. The rich red blood was strong under the browned, yet delicate skin, the eyes
were bright and brave, the cherry lips, slightly apart, gave a glimpse of pearl white teeth,
and the dimples,--those roguish dimples,--twinkled sweetly.

Colonel Clark looked on in amazement, and in spite of himself, in admiration. He did not understand;
the sudden incident bewildered him; but his virile nature was instantly and wholly charmed.
Something like a breath of violets shook the tenderest chords of his heart.

Alice stood firmly, a statue of triumph, her right arm outstretched, holding the flag high
above Hamilton's head; and close by her side the little hunchback Jean was posed in his most
characteristic attitude, gazing at the banner which he himself had stolen and kept hidden for
Alice's sake, and because he loved it.

There was a dead silence for some moments, during which Hamilton's face showed that he was
ready to collapse; then the keen voice of Oncle Jazon broke forth:

"Vive Zhorzh Vasinton! Vim la banniere d'Alice Roussillon!"

He sprang to the middle of the area and flung his old cap high in air, with a shrill war-whoop.

"H'ist it! h'ist it! hissez la banniere de Mademoiselle Alice Roussillon! Voila, que c'est
glorieuse, cette banniere la! H'ist it! h'ist it!"

He was dancing with a rickety liveliness, his goatish legs and shriveled body giving him the
look of an emaciated satyr.

Clark had been told by some of his creole officers the story of how Alice raised the flag when
Helm took the fort, and how she snatched it from Hamilton's hand, as it were, and would not
give it up when he demanded it. The whole situation pretty soon began to explain itself, as
he saw what Alice was doing. Then he heard her say to Hamilton, while she slowly swayed the
rippling flag back and forth:

"I said, as you will remember, Monsieur le Gouverneur, that when you next should see this flag,
I should wave it over your head. Well, look, I am waving it! Vive la republique! Vive George
Washington! What do you think of it, Monsieur le Gouverneur?"

The poor little hunchback Jean took off his cap and tossed it in rhythmical emphasis, keeping
time to her words.

And now from behind the hollow square came a mighty voice:

"C'est moi, Gaspard Roussillon; me voici, messieurs!"

There was a spirit in the air which caught from Alice a thrill of romantic energy. The men
in the ranks and the officers in front of them felt a wave of irresistible sympathy sweep through
their hearts. Her picturesque beauty, her fine temper, the fitness of the incident to the occasion,
had an instantaneous power which moved all men alike.

"Raise her flag! Run up the young lady's flag!" some one shouted, and then every voice seemed
to echo the words. Clark was a young man of noble type, in whose veins throbbed the warm chivalrous
blood of the cavaliers. A waft of the suddenly prevailing influence bore him also quite off
his feet. He turned to Beverley and said:

"Do it! It will have a great effect. It is a good idea; get the young lady's flag and her permission
to run it up."

Before he finished speaking, indeed at the first glance, he saw that Beverley, like Hamilton,
was white as a dead man; and at the same time it came to his memory that his young friend had
confided to him during the awful march through the prairie wilderness, a love-story about this
very Alice Roussillon. In the worry and stress of the subsequent struggle, he had forgotten
the tender basis upon which Beverley had rested his excuse for leaving Vincennes. Now, it all
reappeared in justification of what was going on. It touched the romantic core of his southern
nature.

"I say, Lieutenant Beverley," he repeated, "beg the young lady's permission to use her flag
upon this glorious occasion; or shall I do it for you?"

There were no miracles in those brave days, and the strain of life with its terrible realities
braced all men and women to meet sudden explosions of surprise, whether of good or bad effect,
with admirable equipoise; but Beverley's trial, it must be admitted, was extraordinary; still
he braced himself quickly and his whole expression changed when Clark moved to go to Alice.
For he realized now that it was, indeed, Alice in flesh and blood, standing there, the center
of admiration, filling the air with her fine magnetism and crowning a great triumph with her
beauty. He gave her a glad, flashing smile, as if he had just discovered her, and walked straight
to her, his hands extended. She was not looking toward him; but she saw him and turned to face
him. Hers was the advantage; for she had known, for some hours, of his presence in Vincennes,
and had prepared herself to meet him courageously and with maidenly reserve.

There is no safety, however, where Love lurks. Neither Beverley nor Alice was as much agitated
at Hamilton, yet they both forgot, what he remembered, that a hundred grim frontier soldiers
were looking on. Hamilton had his personal and official dignity to sustain, and he fairly did
it, under what a pressure of humiliating and surprising circumstances we can fully comprehend.
Not so with the two young people, standing as it were in a suddenly bestowed and incomparable
happiness, on the verge of a new life, each to the other an unexpected, unhoped-for resurrection
from the dead. To them there was no universe save the illimitable expanse of their love. In
that moment of meeting, all that they had suffered on account of love was transfused and poured
forth,--a glowing libation for love's sake,--a flood before which all barriers broke.

Father Beret was looking on with a strange fire in his eyes, and what he feared would happen,
did happen. Alice let the flag fall at Hamilton's feet, when Beverley came near her smiling
that great, glad smile, and with a joyous cry leaped into his outstretched arms.

Jean snatched up the fallen banner and ran to Colonel Clark with it. Two minutes later it was
made fast and the halyard began to squeak through the rude pulley at the top of the pole. Up,
up, climbed the gay little emblem of glory, while the cannon crashed from the embrasures of
the blockhouse hard by, and outside the roar of voices redoubled. Thirteen guns boomed the
salute, though it should have been fourteen,--the additional one for the great Northwestern
Territory, that day annexed to the domain of the young American Republic. The flag went up
at old Vincennes never to come down again, and when it reached its place at the top of the
staff, Beverley and Alice stood side by side looking at it, while the sun broke through the
clouds and flashed on its shining folds, and love unabashed glorified the two strong young faces.

CHAPTER XXI

SOME TRANSACTIONS IN SCALPS

History would be a very orderly affair, could the dry-as-dust historians have their way, and
doubtless it would be thrillingly romantic at every turn if the novelists were able to control
its current. Fortunately neither one nor the other has much influence, and the result, in the
long run, is that most novels are shockingly tame, while the large body of history is loaded
down with picturesque incidents, which if used in fiction, would be thought absurdly romantic
and improbable.

Were our simple story of old Vincennes a mere fiction, we should hesitate to bring in the explosion
of a magazine at the fort with a view to sudden confusion and, by that means, distracting attention
from our heroine while she betakes herself out of a situation which, although delightful enough
for a blessed minute, has quickly become an embarrassment quite unendurable. But we simply
adhere to the established facts in history. Owing to some carelessness there was, indeed, an
explosion of twenty-six six-pound cartridges, which made a mighty roar and struck the newly
installed garrison into a heap, so to say, scattering things terribly and wounding six men,
among them Captains Bowman and Worthington.

After the thunderous crash came a momentary silence, which embraced both the people within
the fort and the wild crowd outside. Then the rush and noise were indescribable. Even Clark
gave way to excitement, losing command of himself and, of course, of his men. There was a stampede
toward the main gate by one wing of the troops in the hollow square. They literally ran over
Beverley and Alice, flinging them apart and jostling them hither and yonder without mercy.
Of course the turmoil quickly subsided. Clark and Beverley got hold of themselves and sang
out their peremptory orders with excellent effect. It was like oil on raging water; the men
obeyed in a straggling way, getting back into ranks as best they could.

"Ventrebleu!" squeaked Oncle Jazon, "ef I didn't think the ole world had busted into a million
pieces!"

He was jumping up and down not three feet from Beverley's toes, waving his cap excitedly.

"But wasn't I skeert! Ya, ya, ya! Vive la banniere d'Alice Roussillon! Vive Zhorzh Vasinton!"

Hearing Alice's name caused Beverley to look around. Where was she? In the distance he saw
Father Beret hurrying to the spot where some of the men burnt and wounded by the explosion
were being stripped and cared for. Hamilton still stood like a statue. He appeared to be the
only cool person in the fort.

"Where is Alice?--Miss Roussillon--where did Miss Roussillon go?" Beverley exclaimed, staring
around like a lost man. "Where is she?"

"D'know," said Oncle Jazon, resuming his habitual expression of droll dignity, "she shot apast
me jes' as thet thing busted loose, an' she went like er hummin' bird, skitch!--jes' thet way--an'
I didn't see 'r no more. 'Cause I was skeert mighty nigh inter seven fits; 'spect that 'splosion
blowed her clean away! Ventrebleu! never was so plum outen breath an' dead crazy weak o' bein'
afeard!"

"Lieutenant Beverley," roared Clark in his most commanding tone, "go to the gate and settle
things there. That mob outside is trying to break in!"

The order was instantly obeyed, but Beverley had relapsed. Once more his soul groped in darkness,
while the whole of his life seemed unreal, a wavering, misty, hollow dream. And yet his military
duty was all real enough. He knew just what to do when he reached the gate.

"Back there at once!" he commanded, not loudly, but with intense force, "back there!" This
to the inward surging wedge of excited outsiders. Then to the guard.

"Shoot the first man who crosses the line!"

"Ziff! me voici! moi! Gaspard Roussillon. Laissez-moi passer, messieurs."

A great body hurled itself frantically past Beverley and the guard, going out through the gateway
against the wall of the crowd, bearing everything before it and shouting:

"Back, fools! you'll all be killed--the powder is on fire! Ziff! run!"

Wild as a March hare, he bristled with terror and foamed at the mouth. He stampeded the entire
mass. There was a wild howl; a rush in the other direction followed, and soon enough the esplanade
and all the space back to the barricades and beyond were quite deserted.

Alice was not aware that a serious accident had happened. Naturally she thought the great,
rattling, crashing noise of the explosion a mere part of the spectacular show. When the rush
followed, separating her and Beverley, it was a great relief to her in some way; for a sudden
recognition of the boldness of her action in the little scene just ended, came over her and
bewildered her. An impulse sent her running away from the spot where, it seemed to her, she
had invited public derision. The terrible noises all around her were, she now fancied, but
the jeering and hooting of rude men who had seen her unmaidenly forwardness.

With a burning face she flew to the postern and slipped out, once more taking the course which
had become so familiar to her feet. She did not slacken her speed until she reached the Bourcier
cabin, where she had made her home since the night when Hamilton's pistol ball struck her.
The little domicile was quite empty of its household, but Alice entered and flung herself into
a chair, where she sat quivering and breathless when Adrienne, also much excited, came in,
preceded by a stream of patois that sparkled continuously.

"The fort is blown up!" she cried, gesticulating in every direction at once, her petite figure
comically dilated with the importance of her statement. "A hundred men are killed, and the
powder is on fire!"

She pounced into Alice's arms, still talking as fast as her tongue could vibrate, changing
from subject to subject without rhyme or reason, her prattle making its way by skips and shies
until what was really upper-most in her sweet little heart disclosed itself.

"And, O Alice! Rene has not come yet!"

She plunged her dusky face between Alice's cheek and shoulder; Alice hugged her sympathetically
and said:

"But Rene will come, I know he will, dear."

"Oh, but do you know it? is it true? who told you? when will he come? where is he? tell me
about him!"

Her head popped up from her friend's neck and she smiled brilliantly through the tears that
were still sparkling on her long black lashes.

"I didn't mean that I had heard from him, and I don't know where he is; but--but they always
come back."

"You say that because your man--because Lieutenant Beverley has returned. It is always so.
You have everything to make you happy, while I--I--"

Again her eyes spilled their shower, and she hid her face in her hands which Alice tried in
vain to remove.

"Don't cry, Adrienne. You didn't see me crying--"

"No, of course not; you didn't have a thing to cry about. Lieutenant Beverley told you just
where he was going and just what--"

"But think, Adrienne, only think of the awful story they told--that he was killed, that Governor
Hamilton had paid Long-Hair for killing him and bringing back his scalp--oh dear, just think!
And I thought it was true."

"Well, I'd be willing to think and believe anything in the world, if Rene would come back,"
said Adrienne, her face, now uncovered, showing pitiful lines of suffering. "O Alice, Alice,
and he never, never will come!"

Alice exhausted every device to cheer, encourage and comfort her. Adrienne had been so good
to her when she lay recovering from the shock of Hamilton's pistol bullet, which, although
it came near killing her, made no serious wound--only a bruise, in fact. It was one of those
fortunate accidents, or providentially ordered interferences, which once in a while save a
life. The stone disc worn by Alice chanced to lie exactly in the missile's way, and while it
was not broken, the ball, already somewhat checked by passing through several folds of Father
Beret's garments, flattened itself upon it with a shock which somehow struck Alice senseless.

Here again, history in the form of an ancient family document (a letter written in 1821 by
Alice herself), gives us the curious brace of incidents, to wit, the breaking of the miniature
on Beverley's breast by a British musket-ball, and the stopping of Hamilton's bullet over Alice's
heart by the Indian charm-stone.

"Which shows the goodness of God," the letter goes on, "and also seems to sustain the Indian
legend concerning the stone, that whoever might wear it could not be killed. Unquestionable
(sic) Mr. Hamilton's shot, which was aimed at poor, dear old Father Beret, would have pierced
my heart, but for that charm-stone. As for my locket, it did not, as some have reported, save
Fitzhugh's life when the musket-ball was stopped. The ball was so spent that the blow was only
hard enough to spoil temporary (sic) the face of the miniature, which was afterwards restored
fairly well by an artist in Paris. When it did actually save Fitzhugh's life was out on the
Illinois plain. The savage, Long-Hair, peace to his memory, worked the miracle of restoring
to me--" Here a fold in the paper has destroyed a line of the writing.

The letter is a sacred family paper, and there is not justification for going farther into
its faded and, in some parts, almost obliterated writing. But so much may pass into these pages
as a pleasant authentication of what otherwise might be altogether too sweet a double nut for
the critic's teeth to crack.

While Adrienne and Alice were still discussing the probability of Rene de Ronville's return,
M. Roussillon came to the door. He was in search of Madame, his wife, whom he had not yet seen.

He gathered the two girls in his mighty arms, tousling them with rough tenderness. Alice returned
his affectionate embrace and told him where to find Madame Roussillon, who was with Dame Godere,
probably at her house.

"Nobody killed," he said, in answer to Alice's inquiry about the catastrophe at the fort. "Some
of 'em hurt and burnt a little. Great big scare about nearly nothing. Ziff! my children, you
should have seen me quiet things. I put out my hands, this way--omme ca--pouf! It was all over.
The people went home."

His gestures indicated that he had borne back an army with open hands. Then he chucked Adrienne
under the chin with his finger and added in his softest voice:

"I saw somebody's lover the other day, over yonder in the Indian village. He spoke to me about
somebody--eh, ma petite, que voulez-vous dire?"

"Oh, Papa Roussillon! we were just talking about Rene!" cried Alice. "Have you seen him?"

"I saw you, you little minx, jumping into a man's arms right under the eyes of a whole garrison!
Bah! I could not believe it was my little Alice!"

He let go a grand guffaw, which seemed to shake the cabin's walls. Alice blushed cherry red.
Adrienne, too bashful to inquire about Rene, was trembling with anxiety. The truth was not
in Gaspard Roussillon, just then; or if it was it stayed in him, for he had not seen Rene de
Ronville. It was his generous desire to please and to appear opulent of knowledge and sympathy
that made him speak. He knew what would please Adrienne, so why not give her at least a delicious
foretaste? Surely, when a thing was so cheap, one need not be so parsimonious as to withhold
a mere anticipation. He was off before the girls could press him into details, for indeed he
had none.

"There now, what did I tell you?" cried Alice, when the big man was gone. "I told you Rene
would come. They always come back!"

Father Beret came in a little later. As soon as he saw Alice he frowned and began to shake
his head; but she only laughed, and imitating his hypocritical scowl, yet fringing it with
a twinkle of merry lines and dimples, pointed a taper finger at him and exclaimed:

"You bad, bad, man! why did you pretend to me that Lieutenant Beverley was dead? What sinister
ecclesiastical motive prompted you to describe how Long-Hair scalped him? Ah, Father--"

The priest laid a broad hand over her saucy mouth. "Something or other seems to have excited
you mightily, ma fille, you are a trifle impulsively inclined to-day."

"Yes, Father Beret; yes I know, and I am ashamed. My heart shrinks when I think of what I did;
but I was so glad, such a grand joy came all over me when I saw him, so strong and brave and
beautiful, coming toward me, smiling that warm, glad smile and holding out his arms--ah, when
I saw all that--when I knew for sure that he was not dead--I, why, Father--I just had to, I
couldn't help it!"

Father Beret laughed in spite of himself, but quickly managed to resume his severe countenance.

"Ta! ta!" he exclaimed, "it was a bold thing for a little girl to do."

"So it was, so it was. But it was also a bold thing for him to do--to come back after he was
dead and scalped and look so handsome and grand! I'm ashamed and sorry, Father; but--but, I'm
afraid I might do it again if--well, I don't care if I did--so there, now!"

"But what in the world are you talking about?" interposed Adrienne. Evidently they were discussing
a most interesting matter of which she knew nothing, and that did not suit her feminine curiosity.
"Tell me." She pulled Father Beret's sleeve. "Tell me, I say!"

It is probable that Father Beret would have pretended to betray Alice's source of mingled delight
and embarrassment, had not the rest of the Bourcier household returned in time to break up
the conversation. A little later Alice gave Adrienne a vividly dramatic account of the whole scene.

"Ah, mon Dieu!" exclaimed the petite brunette, after she had heard the exciting story. "That
was just like you, Alice. You always do superb things. You were born to do them. You shoot
Captain Farnsworth, you wound Lieutenant Barlow, you climb onto the fort and set up your flag--you
take it down again and run away with it--you get shot and you do not die--you kiss your lover
right before a whole garrison! Bon Dieu! if I could but do all those things!"

She clasped her tiny hands before her and added rather dejectedly: "But I couldn't, I couldn't.
I couldn't kiss a man in that way!"

Late in the evening news came to Roussillon place, where Gaspard Roussillon was once more happy
in the midst of his little family, that the Indian Long-Hair had just been brought to the fort,
and would be shot on the following day. A scouting party captured him as he approached the
town, bearing at his belt the fresh scalp of a white man. He would have been killed forthwith,
but Clark, who wished to avoid a repetition of the savage vengeance meted out to the Indians
on the previous day, had given strict orders that all prisoners should be brought into the
fort, where they were to have a fair trial by court martial.

Both Helm and Beverley were at Roussillon place, the former sipping wine and chatting with
Gaspard, the latter, of course, hovering around Alice, after the manner of a hungry bee around
a particularly sweet and deliciously refractory flower. It was raining slowly, the fine drops
coming straight down through the cold, still February air; but the two young people found it
pleasant enough for them on the veranda, where they walked back and forth, making fair exchange
of the exciting experiences which had befallen them during their long separation. Between the
lines of these mutual recitals sweet, fresh echoes of the old, old story went from heart to
heart, an amoebaean love-bout like that of spring birds calling tenderly back and forth in
the blooming Maytime woods.

Both Captain Helm and M. Roussillon were delighted to hear of Long-Hair's capture and certain
fate, but neither of them regarded the news as of sufficient importance to need much comment.
They did not think of telling Beverley and Alice. Jean, however, lying awake in his little
bed, overheard the conversation, which he repeated to Alice next morning with great circumstantiality.

Having the quick insight bred of frontier experience, Alice instantly caught the terrible significance
of the dilemma in which she and Beverley would be placed by Long-Hair's situation. Moreover,
something in her heart arose with irresistible power demanding the final, the absolute human
sympathy and gratitude. No matter what deeds Long-Hair had committed that were evil beyond
forgiveness, he had done for her the all-atoning thing. He had saved Beverley and sent him
back to her.

With a start and a chill of dread, she thought: "What if it is already too late!"

But her nature could not hesitate. To feel the demand of an exigency was to act. She snatched
a wrap from its peg on the wall and ran as fast as she could to the fort. People who met her
flying along wondered, staring after her, what could be urging her so that she saw nobody,
checked herself for nothing, ran splashing through the puddles in the street, gazing ahead
of her, as if pursuing some flying object from which she dared not turn her eyes.

And there was, indeed, a call for her utmost power of flight, if she would be of any assistance
to Long-Hair, who even then stood bound to a stake in the fort's area, while a platoon of riflemen,
those unerring shots from Kentucky and Virginia, were ready to make a target of him at a range
of but twenty yards.

Beverley, greatly handicapped by the fact that the fresh scalp of a white man hung at Long-Hair's
belt, had exhausted every possible argument to avert or mitigate the sentence promptly spoken
by the court martial of which Colonel Clark was the ruling spirit. He had succeeded barely
to the extent of turning the mode of execution from tomahawking to shooting. All the officers
in the fort approved killing the prisoner, and it was difficult for Colonel Clark to prevent
the men from making outrageous assaults upon him, so exasperated were they at sight of the scalp.

Oncle Jazon proved to be one of the most refractory among those who demanded tomahawking and
scalping as the only treatment due Long-Hair. The repulsive savage stood up before them stolid,
resolute, defiant, proudly flaunting the badge which testified to his horrible efficiency as
an emissary of Hamilton's. It had been left in his belt by Clark's order, as the best justification
of his doom.

"L' me hack 'is damned head," Oncle Jazon pleaded. "I jes' hankers to chop a hole inter it.
An' besides I want 'is scelp to hang up wi' mine an' that'n o' the Injun what scelped me. He
kicked me in the ribs, the stinkin' varmint."

Beverley pleaded eloquently and well, but even the genial Major Helm laughed at his sentiment
of gratitude to a savage who at best but relented at the last moment, for Alice's sake, and
concluded not to sell him to Hamilton. It is due to the British commander to record here that
he most positively and with what appeared to be high sincerity, denied the charge of having
offered rewards for the taking of human scalps. He declared that his purposes and practices
were humane, and that while he did use the Indians as military allies, his orders to them were
that they must forego cruel modes of warfare and refrain from savage outrage upon prisoners.
Certainly the weight of contemporary testimony seems overwhelmingly against him, but we enter
his denial. Long-Hair himself, however, taunted him with accusations of unfaithfulness in carrying
out some very inhuman contracts, and to add a terrible sting, volunteered the statement that
poor Barlow's scalp had served his turn in the place of Beverley's.

With conditions so hideous to contend against, Beverley, of course, had no possible means of
succoring the condemned savage.

"Him a kickin' yer ribs clean inter ye, an' a makin' ye run the ga'ntlet, an' here ye air a
tryin' to save 'is life!" whined Oncle Jazon, "W'y man, I thought ye hed some senterments!
Dast 'is Injin liver, I kin feel them kicks what he guv me till yit. Ventrebleu! que diable
voulez-vous?"

Clark simply pushed Beverley's pleadings aside as not worth a moment's consideration. He easily
felt the fine bit of gratitude at the bottom of it all; but there was too much in the other
side of the balance; justice, the discipline and confidence of his little army, and the claim
of the women and children on the frontier demanded firmness in dealing with a case like Long-Hair's.

"No, no," he said to Beverley, "I would do anything in the world for you, Fitz, except to swerve
an inch from duty to my country and the defenceless people down yonder in Kentucky, I can't
do it. There's no use to press the matter further. The die is cast. That brute's got to be
killed, and killed dead. Look at him--look at that scalp! I'd have him killed if I dropped
dead for it the next instant."

Beverley shuddered. The argument was horribly convincing, and yet, somehow, the desire to save
Long-Hair overbore everything else in his mind. He could not cease his efforts; it seemed to
him as if he were pleading for Alice herself. Captain Farnsworth, strange to say, was the only
man in the fort who leaned to Beverley's side; but he was reticent, doubtless feeling that
his position as a British prisoner gave him no right to speak, especially when every lip around
him was muttering something about "infamous scalp-buyers and Indian partisans," with whom he
was prominently counted by the speakers.

As Clark had said, the die was cast. Long-Hair, bound to a stake, the scalp still dangling
at his side, grimly faced his executioners, who were eager to fire. He appeared to be proud
of the fact that he was going to be killed.

"One thing I can say of him," Helm remarked to Beverley; "he's the grandest specimen of the
animal--I might say the brute--man that I ever saw, red, white or black. Just look at his body
and limbs! Those muscles are perfectly marvelous."

"He saved my life, and I must stand here and see him murdered," the young man replied with
intense bitterness. It was all that he could think, all that he could say. He felt inefficient
and dejected, almost desperate.

Clark himself, not willing to cast responsibility upon a subordinate, made ready to give the
fatal order. Turning to Long-Hair first, he demanded of him as well as he could in the Indian
dialect of which he had a smattering, what he had to say at his last moment.

The Indian straightened his already upright form, and, by a strong bulging of his muscles,
snapped the thongs that bound him. Evidently he had not tried thus to free himself; it was
rather a spasmodic expression of savage dignity and pride. One arm and both his legs still
were partially confined by the bonds, but his right hand he lifted, with a gesture of immense
self-satisfaction, and pointed at Hamilton.

"Indian brave; white man coward," he said, scowling scornfully. "Long-Hair tell truth; white
man lie, damn!"

Hamilton's countenance did not change its calm, cold expression. Long-Hair gazed at him fixedly
for a long moment, his eyes flashing most concentrated hate and contempt. Then he tore the
scalp from his belt and flung it with great force straight toward the captive Governor's face.
It fell short, but the look that went with it did not, and Hamilton recoiled.

At that moment Alice arrived. Her coming was just in time to interrupt Clark, who had turned
to the waiting platoon with the order of death on his lips. She made no noise, save the fluttering
of her skirts, and her loud and rapid panting on account of her long, hard run. She sprang
before Long-Hair and faced the platoon.

"You cannot, you shall not kill this man!" she cried in a voice loaded with excitement. "Put
away those guns!"

Woman never looked more thrillingly beautiful to man than she did just then to all those rough,
stern backwoodsmen. During her flight her hair had fallen down, and it glimmered like soft
sunlight around her face. Something compelling flashed out of her eyes, an expression between
a triumphant smile and a ray of irresistible beseechment. It took Colonel Clark's breath when
he turned and saw her standing there, and heard her words.

"This man saved Lieutenant Beverley's life," she presently added, getting better control of
her voice, and sending into it a thrilling timbre; "you shall not harm him--you must not do it!"

Beverley was astounded when he saw her, the thing was so unexpected, so daring, and done with
such high, imperious force; still it was but a realization of what he had imagined she would
be upon occasion. He stood gazing at her, as did all the rest, while she faced Clark and the
platoon of riflemen. To hear his own name pass her quivering lips, in that tone and in that
connection, seemed to him a consecration.

"Would you be more savage than your Indian prisoner?" she went on, "less grateful than he for
a life saved? I did him a small, a very small, service once, and in memory of that he saved
Lieutenant Beverley's life, because--because--" she faltered for a single breath, then added
clearly and with magnetic sweetness--"because Lieutenant Beverley loved me, and because I loved
him. This Indian Long-Hair showed a gratitude that could overcome his strongest passion. You
white men should be ashamed to fall below his standard."

Her words went home. It was as if the beauty of her face, the magnetism of her lissome and
symmetrical form, the sweet fire of her eyes and the passionate appeal of her voice gave what
she said a new and irresistible force of truth. When she spoke of Beverley's love for her,
and declared her love for him, there was not a manly heart in all the garrison that did not
suddenly beat quicker and feel a strange, sweet waft of tenderness. A mother, somewhere, a
wife, a daughter, a sister, a sweetheart, called through that voice of absolute womanhood.

"Beverley, what can I do?" muttered Clark, his bronze face as pale as it could possibly become.

"Do!" thundered Beverley, "do! you cannot murder that man. Hamilton is the man you should shoot!
He offered large rewards, he inflamed the passions and fed the love of rum and the cupidity
of poor wild men like the one standing yonder. Yet you take him prisoner and treat him with
distinguished consideration. Hamilton offered a large sum for me taken alive, a smaller one
for my scalp. Long-Hair saved me. You let Hamilton stand yonder in perfect safety while you
shoot the Indian. Shame on you, Colonel Clark! shame on you, if you do it."

Alice stood looking at the stalwart commander while Beverley was pouring forth his torrent
of scathing reference to Hamilton, and she quickly saw that Clark was moved. The moment was
ripe for the finishing stroke. They say it is genius that avails itself of opportunity. Beverley
knew the fight was won when he saw what followed. Alice suddenly left Long-Hair and ran to
Colonel Clark, who felt her warm, strong arms loop round him for a single point of time never
to be effaced from his memory; then he saw her kneeling at his feet, her hands upstretched,
her face a glorious prayer, while she pleaded the Indian's cause and won it.

Doubtless, while we all rather feel that Clark was weak to be thus swayed by a girl, we cannot
quite blame him. Alice's flag was over him; he had heard her history from Beverley's cunning
lips; he actually believed that Hamilton was the real culprit, and besides he felt not a little
nauseated with executing Indians. A good excuse to have an end of it all did not go begging.

But Long-Hair was barely gone over the horizon from the fort, as free and as villainous a savage
as ever trod the earth, when a discovery made by Oncle Jazon caused Clark to hate himself for
what he had done.

The old scout picked up the scalp, which Long-Hair had flung at Hamilton, and examined it with
odious curiosity. He had lingered on the spot with no other purpose than to get possession
of that ghastly relic. Since losing his own scalp the subject of crownlocks had grown upon
his mind until its fascination was irresistible. He studied the hair of every person he saw,
as a physiognomist studies faces. He held the gruesome thing up before him, scrutinizing it
with the expression of a connoisseur who has discovered, on a grimy canvas, the signature of
an old master.

"Sac' bleu!" he presently broke forth. "Well I'll be--Look'ee yer, George Clark! Come yer an'
look. Ye've been sold ag'in. Take a squint, ef ye please!"

Colonel Clark, with his hands crossed behind him, his face thoughtfully contracted, was walking
slowly to and fro a little way off. He turned about when Oncle Jazon spoke.

"What now, Jazon?"

"A mighty heap right now, that's what; come yer an' let me show ye. Yer a fine sort o' eejit,
now ain't ye!"

The two men walked toward each other and met. Oncle Jazon held up the scalp with one hand,
pointing at it with the index finger of the other.

"This here scalp come off'n Rene de Ronville's head."

"And who is he?"

"Who's he? Ye may well ax thet. He wuz a Frenchman. He wuz a fine young feller o' this town.
He killed a Corp'ral o' Hamilton's an' tuck ter the woods a month or two ago. Hamilton offered
a lot o' money for 'im or 'is scalp, an' Long-Hair went in fer gittin' it. Now ye knows the
whole racket. An' ye lets that Injun go. An' thet same Injun he mighty nigh kicked my ribs
inter my stomach!"

Oncle Jazon's feelings were visible and audible; but Clark could not resent the contempt of
the old man's looks and words. He felt that he deserved far more than he was receiving. Nor
was Oncle Jazon wrong. Rene de Ronville never came back to little Adrienne Bourcier, although,
being kept entirely ignorant of her lover's fate, she waited and dreamed and hoped throughout
more than two years, after which there is no further record of her life.

Clark, Beverley and Oncle Jazon consulted together and agreed among themselves that they would
hold profoundly secret the story of the scalp. To have made it public would have exasperated
the creoles and set them violently against Clark, a thing heavy with disaster for all his future
plans. As it was, the release of Long-Hair caused a great deal of dissatisfaction and mutinous
talk. Even Beverley now felt that the execution ordered by the commander ought to have been
sternly carried out.

A day or two later, however, the whole dark affair was closed forever by a bit of confidence
on the part of Oncle Jazon when Beverley dropped into his hut one evening to have a smoke with him.

The rain was over, the sky shone like one vast luminary, with a nearly full moon and a thousand
stars reinforcing it. Up from the south poured one of those balmy, accidental wind floods,
sometimes due in February on the Wabash, full of tropical dream-hints, yet edged with a winter
chill that smacks of treachery. Oncle Jazon was unusually talkative; he may have had a deep
draught of liquor; at all events Beverley had little room for a word.

"Well, bein' as it's twixt us, as is bosom frien's," the old fellow presently said, "I'll jes'
show ye somepin poorty."

He pricked the wick of a lamp and took down his bunch of scalps.

"I hev been a addin' one more to keep company o' mine an' the tothers."

He separated the latest acquisition from the rest of the wisp and added, with a heinous chuckle:

"This'n's Long-Hair's!"

And so it was. Beverley knocked the ashes from his pipe and rose to go.

"Wen they kicks yer Oncle Jazon's ribs," the old man added, "they'd jes' as well lay down an'
give up, for he's goin' to salervate 'em."

Then, after Beverley had passed out of the cabin, Oncle Jazon chirruped after him:

"Mebbe ye'd better not tell leetle Alice. The pore leetle gal hev hed worry 'nough."

CHAPTER XXII

CLARK ADVISES ALICE

A few days after the surrender of Hamilton, a large boat, the Willing, arrived from Kaskaskia.
It was well manned and heavily armed. Clark fitted it out before beginning his march and expected
it to be of great assistance to him in the reduction of the fort, but the high waters and the
floating driftwood delayed its progress, so that its disappointed crew saw Alice's flag floating
bright and high when their eyes first looked upon the dull little town from far down the swollen
river. There was much rejoicing, however, when they came ashore and were enthusiastically greeted
by the garrison and populace. A courier whom they picked up on the Ohio came with them. He
bore dispatches from Governor Henry of Virginia to Clark and a letter for Beverley from his
father. With them appeared also Simon Kenton, greatly to the delight of Oncle Jazon, who had
worried much about his friend since their latest fredaine--as he called it--with the Indians.
Meantime an expedition under Captain Helm had been sent up the river with the purpose of capturing
a British flotilla from Detroit.

Gaspard Roussillon, immediately after Clark's victory, thought he saw a good opening favorable
to festivity at the river house, for which he soon began to make some of his most ostentatious
preparations. Fate, however, as usual in his case, interfered. Fate seemed to like pulling
the big Frenchman's ear now and again, as if to remind him of the fact--which he was apt to
forget--that he lacked somewhat of omnipotence.

"Ziff! Je vais donner un banquet a tout le moonde, moi!" he cried, hustling and bustling hither
and thither.

A scout from up the river announced the approach of Philip Dejean with his flotilla richly
laden, and what little interest may have been gathering in the direction of M. Roussillon's
festal proposition vanished like the flame of a lamp in a puff of wind when this news reached
Colonel Clark and became known in the town.

Beverley and Alice sat together in the main room of the Roussillon cabin--you could scarcely
find them separated during those happy days--and Alice was singing to the soft tinkle of a
guitar, a Creole ditty with a merry smack in its scarcely intelligible nonsense. She knew nothing
about music beyond what M. Roussillon, a jack of all trades, had been able to teach her,--a
few simple chords to accompany her songs, picked up at hap-hazard. But her voice, like her
face and form, irradiated witchery. It was sweet, firm, deep, with something haunting in it--the
tone of a hermit thrush, marvelously pure and clear, carried through a gay strain like the
mocking-bird's. Of course Beverley thought it divine; and when a message came from Colonel
Clark bidding him report for duty at once, he felt an impulse toward mutiny of the rankest
sort. He did not dream that a military expedition could be on hand; but upon reaching headquarters,
the first thing he heard was:

"Report to Captain Helm. You are to go with him up the river and intercept a British force.
Move lively, Helm is waiting for you, probably."

There was no time for explanations. Evidently Clark expected neither questions nor delay. Beverley's
love of adventure and his patriotic desire to serve his country came to his aid vigorously
enough; still, with Alice's love-song ringing in his heart, there was a cord pulling him back
from duty to the sweetest of all life's joys.

Helm was already at the landing, where a little fleet of boats was being prepared. A thousand
things had to be done in short order. All hands were stimulated to highest exertion with the
thought of another fight. Swivels were mounted in boats, ammunition and provisions stored abundantly,
flags hoisted and oars dipped. Never was an expedition of so great importance more swiftly
organized and set in motion, nor did one ever have a more prosperous voyage or completer triumph.
Philip Dejean, Justice of Detroit, with his men, boats and rich cargo, was captured easily,
with not a shot fired, nor a drop of blood spilled in doing it.

If Alice could have known all this before it happened, she would probably have saved herself
from the mortification of a rebuke administered very kindly, but not the less thoroughly, by
Colonel Clark.

The rumor came to her--a brilliant creole rumor, duly inflated--that an overwhelming British
force was descending the river, and that Beverley with a few men, not sufficient to base the
expedition on a respectable forlorn hope, would be sent to meet them. Her nature, as was its
wont, flared into high indignation. What right had Colonel Clark to send her lover away to
be killed just at the time when he was all the whole world to her? Nothing could be more outrageous.
She would not suffer it to be done; not she!

Colonel Clark greeted her pleasantly, when she came somewhat abruptly to him, where he was
directing a squad of men at work making some repairs in the picketing of the fort. He did not
observe her excitement until she began to speak, and then it was noticeable only, and not very
strongly, in her tone. She forgot to speak English, and her French was Greek to him.

"I am glad to see you, Mademoiselle," he said, rather inconsequently, lifting his hat and bowing
with rough grace, while he extended his right hand cordially. "You have something to say to
me? Come with me to my office."

She barely touched his fingers.

"Yes, I have something to say to you. I can tell it here," she said, speaking English now with
softest Creole accent. "I wanted--I came to--" It was not so easy as she had imagined it would
be to utter what she had in mind. Clark's steadfast, inscrutable eyes, kindly yet not altogether
sympathetic, met her own and beat them down. Her voice failed.

He offered her his arm and gravely said:

"We will go to my office. I see that you have some important communication to make. There are
too many ears here."

Of a sudden she felt like running home. Somehow the situation broke upon her with a most embarrassing
effect. She did not take Clark's arm, and she began to tremble. He appeared unconscious of
this, and probably was, for his mind had a fine tangle of great schemes in it just then; but
he turned toward his office, and bidding her follow him, walked away in that direction.

She was helpless. Not the slightest trace of her usual brilliant self-assertion was at her
command. Saving the squad of men sawing and hacking, digging and hammering, the fort appeared
as deserted as her mind. She stood gazing after Clark. He did not look back, but strode right
on. If she would speak with him, she must follow. It was a surprise to her, for heretofore
she had always had her own way, even if she found it necessary to use force. And where was
Beverley? Where was the garrison? Colonel Clark did not seem to be at all concerned about the
approach of the British--and yet those repairs--perhaps he was making ready for a desperate
resistance! She did not move until he reached the door of his office where he stopped and stepped
aside, as if to let her pass in first; he even lifted his hat, then looked a trifle surprised
when he saw that she was not near him, frowned slightly, changed the frown to a smile and said,
lifting his voice so that she felt a certain imperative meaning in it:

"Did I walk too fast for you? I beg your pardon, Mademoiselle."

He stood waiting for her, as a father waits for a lagging, wilful child.

"Come, please," he added, "if you have something to say to me; my time just now is precious--I
have a great deal to do."

She was not of a nature to retreat under fire, and yet the panic in her breast came very near
mastering her will. Clark saw a look in her face which made him speak again:

"I assure you, Mademoiselle, that you need not feel embarrassed. You can rely upon me to--"

She made a gesture that interrupted him; at the same time she almost ran toward him, gathering
in breath, as one does who is about to force out a desperately resisting and riotous thought.
The strong, grave man looked at her with a full sense of her fascination, and at the same time
he felt a vague wish to get away from her, as if she were about to cast unwelcome responsibility
upon him.

"Where is Lieutenant Beverley?" she demanded, now close to Clark, face to face, and gazing
straight into his eyes. "I want to see him." Her tone suggested intensest excitement. She was
trembling visibly.

Clark's face changed its expression. He suddenly recalled to mind Alice's rapturous public
greeting of Beverley on the day of the surrender. He was a cavalier, and it did not agree with
his sense of high propriety for girls to kiss their lovers out in the open air before a gazing
army. True enough, he himself had been hoodwinked by Alice's beauty and boldness in the matter
of Long-Hair. He confessed this to himself mentally, which may have strengthened his present
disapproval of her personal inquiry about Beverley. At all events he thought she ought not
to be coming into the stockade on such an errand.

"Lieutenant Beverley is absent acting under my orders he said, with perfect respectfulness,
yet in a tone suggesting military finality. He meant to set an indefinite yet effective rebuke
in his words.

"Absent?" she echoed. "Gone? You sent him away to be killed! You had no right--you--"

"Miss Roussillon," said Clark, becoming almost stern, "you had better go home and stay there;
young girls oughtn't to run around hunting men in places like this."

His blunt severity of speech was accompanied by a slight frown and a gesture of impatience.

Alice's face blazed red to the roots of her sunny hair; the color ebbed, giving place to a
pallor like death. She began to tremble, and her lips quivered pitifully, but she braced herself
and tried to force back the choking sensation in her throat.

"You must not misconstrue my words," Clark quickly added; "I simply mean that men will not
rightly understand you. They will form impressions very harmful to you. Even Lieutenant Beverley
might not see you in the right light."

"What--what do you mean?" she gasped, shrinking from him, a burning spot reappearing under
the dimpled skin of each cheek.

"Pray, Miss, do not get excited. There is nothing to make you cry." He saw tears shining in
her eyes. "Beverley is not in the slightest danger. All will be well, and he'll come back in
a few days. The expedition will be but a pleasure trip. Now you go home. Lieutenant Beverley
is amply able to take care of himself. And let me tell you, if you expect a good man to have
great confidence in you, stay home and let him hunt you up instead of you hunting him. A man
likes that better."

It would be impossible to describe Alice's feelings, as they just then rose like a whirling
storm in her heart. She was humiliated, she was indignant, she was abashed; she wanted to break
forth with a tempest of denial, self-vindication, resentment; she wanted to cry with her face
hidden in her hands. What she did was to stand helplessly gazing at Clark, with two or three
bright tears on either cheek, her hands clenched, her eyes flashing. She was going to say some
wild thing; but she did not; her voice lodged fast in her throat. She moved her lips, unable
to make a sound.

Two of Clark's officers relieved the situation by coming up to get orders about some matter
of town government, and Alice scarcely knew how she made her way home. Every vein in her body
was humming like a bee when she entered the house and flung herself into a chair.

She heard Madame Roussillon and Father Beret chatting in the kitchen, whence came a fragrance
of broiling buffalo steak besprinkled with garlic. It was Father Beret's favorite dish, wherefore
his tongue ran freely--almost as freely as that of his hostess, and when he heard Alice come
in, he called gayly to her through the kitchen door:

"Come here, ma fille, and lend us old folks your appetite; nous avons une tranche a la Bordelaise!"

"I am not hungry," she managed to say, "you can eat it without me."

The old man's quick ears caught the quaver of trouble in her voice, much as she tried to hide
it. A moment later he was standing beside her with his hand on her head.

"What is the matter now, little one?" he tenderly demanded. "Tell your old Father."

She began to cry, laying her face in her crossed arms, the tears gushing, her whole frame aquiver,
and heaving great sobs. She seemed to shrink like a trodden flower. It touched Father Beret deeply.

He suspected that Beverley's departure might be the cause of her trouble; but when presently
she told him what had taken place in the fort, he shook his head gravely and frowned.

"Colonel Clark was right, my daughter," he said after a short silence, "and it is time for
you to ponder well upon the significance of his words. You can't always be a wilful, headstrong
little girl, running everywhere and doing just as you please. You have grown to be a woman
in stature--you must be one in fact. You know I told you at first to be careful how you acted
with--"

"Father, dear old Father!" she cried, springing from her seat and throwing her arms around
his neck. "Have I appeared forward and unwomanly? Tell me, Father, tell me! I did not mean
to do anything--"

"Quietly, my child, don't give way to excitement." He gently put her from him and crossed himself--a
habit of his when suddenly perplexed--then added:

"You have done no evil; but there are proprieties which a young woman must not overstep. You
are impulsive, too impulsive; and it will not do to let a young man see that you--that you--"

"Father, I understand," she interrupted, and her face grew very pale.

Madame Roussillon came to the door, flushed with stooping over the fire, and announced that
the steak was ready.

"Bring the wine, Alice," she added, "a bottle of Bordeaux."

She stood for a breath of two, her red hands on her hips, looking first at Father Beret, then
at Alice.

"Quarreling again about the romances?" she inquired. "She's been at it again?--she's found
'em again?"

"Yes," said Father Beret, with a queer, dry smile, "more romance. Yes, she's been at it again!
Now fetch the Bordeaux, little one."

The following days were cycles of torture to Alice. She groveled in the shadow of a great dread.
It seemed to her that Beverley could not love her, could not help looking upon her as a poor,
wild, foolish girl, unworthy of consideration. She magnified her faults and crudities, she
paraded before her inner vision her fecent improprieties, as they had been disclosed to her,
until she saw herself a sort of monstrosity at which all mankind was gazing with disgust. Life
seemed dry and shriveled, a mere jaundiced shadow, while her love for Beverley took on a new
growth, luxuriant, all-embracing, uncontrollable. The ferment of spirit going on in her breast
was the inevitable process of self-recognition which follows the terrible unfolding of the
passion-flower, in a nature almost absolutely simple and unsophisticated.

Vincennes held its breath while waiting for news from Helm's expedition. Every day had its
nimble, yet wholly imaginary account of what had happened, skipping from mouth to mouth, and
from cabin to cabin. The French folk ran hither and thither in the persistent rain, industriously
improving the dramatic interest of each groundless report. Alice's disturbed imagination reveled
in the kaleidoscopic terrors conjured up by these swift changes of the form and color of the
stories "from the front," all of them more or less tragic. To-day the party is reported as
having been surprised and massacred to a man--to-morrow there has been a great fight, many
killed, the result in doubt--next day the British are defeated, and so on. The volatile spirit
of the Creoles fairly surpassed itself in ringing the changes on stirring rumors.

Alice scarcely left the house during the whole period of excitement and suspense. Like a wounded
bird, she withdrew herself from the light and noisy chatter of her friends, seeking only solitude
and crepuscular nooks in which to suffer silently. Jean brought her every picturesque bit of
the ghastly gossip, thus heaping coals on the fire of her torture. But she did not grow pale
and thin. Not a dimple fled from cheek or chin, not a ray of saucy sweetness vanished from
her eyes. Her riant health was unalterable. Indeed, the only change in her was a sudden ripening
and mellowing of her beauty, by which its colors, its lines, its subtle undercurrents of expression
were spiritualized, as if by some powerful clarifying process.

Tremendous is the effect of a soul surprised by passion and brought hard up against an opposing
force which dashes it back upon itself with a flare and explosion of self-revealment. Nor shall
we ever be able to foretell just how small a circumstance, just how slight an exigency, will
suffice to bring on the great change. The shifting of a smile to the gloom of a frown, the
snap of a string on the lute of our imagination, just at the point when a rich melody is culminating;
the waving of a hand, a vanishing face--any eclipse of tender, joyous expectation--dashes a
nameless sense of despair into the soul. And a young girl's soul--who shall uncover its sacred
depths of sensitiveness, or analyze its capacity for suffering under such a stroke?

On the fifth day of March, back came the victorious Helm, having surrounded and captured seven
boats, richly loaded with provisions and goods, and Dejean's whole force. Then again the little
Creole town went wild with rejoicing. Alice heard the news and the noise; but somehow there
was no response in her heart. She dreaded to meet Beverley; indeed, she did not expect him
to come to her. Why should he?

M. Roussillon, who had volunteered to accompany Helm, arrived in a mood of unlimited proportions,
so far as expressing self-admiration and abounding delight was concerned. You would have been
sure that he had done the whole deed single-handed, and brought the flotilla and captives to
town on his back. But Oncle Jazon for once held his tongue, being too disgusted for words at
not having been permitted to fire a single shot. What was the use of going to fight and simply
meeting and escorting down the river a lot of non-combatants?

There is something inscrutably delightful about a girl's way of thinking one thing and doing
another. Perversity, thy name is maidenhood; and maidenhood, thy name is delicious inconsequence!
When Alice heard that Beverley had come back, safe, victorious, to be greeted as one of the
heroes of an important adventure, she immediately ran to her room frightened and full of vague,
shadowy dread, to hide from him, yet feeling sure that he would not come! Moreover, she busied
herself with the preposterous task of putting on her most attractive gown--the buff brocade
which she wore that evening at the river house--how long ago it seemed!--when Beverley thought
her the queenliest beauty in the world. And she was putting it on so as to look her prettiest
while hiding from him!

It is a toss-up where happiness will make its nest. The palace, the hut, the great lady's garden,
the wild lass's bower,--skip here, alight there,--the secret of it may never be told. And love
and beauty find lodgment, by the same inexplicable route, in the same extremes of circumstances.
The wind bloweth where it listeth, finding many a matchless flower and many a ravishing fragrance
in the wildest nooks of the world.

No sooner did Beverley land at the little wharf than, rushing to his quarters, he made a hasty
exchange of water-soaked apparel for something more comfortable, and then bolted in the direction
of Roussillon place.

Now Alice knew by the beating of her heart that he was coming. In spite of all she could do,
trying to hold on hard and fast to her doubt and gloom, a tide of rich sweetness began to course
through her heart and break in splendid expectation from her eyes, as they looked through the
little unglazed window toward the fort. Nor had she long to wait. He came up the narrow wet
street, striding like a tall actor in the height of a melodrama, his powerful figure erect
as an Indian's, and his face glowing with the joy of a genuine, impatient lover, who is proud
of himself because of the image he bears in his heart.

When Alice flung wide the door (which was before Beverley could cross the veranda), she had
quite forgotten how she had gowned and bedecked herself; and so, without a trace of self-consciousness,
she flashed upon him a full-blown flower--to his eyes the loveliest that ever opened under heaven.

Gaspard Roussillon, still overflowing with the importance of his part in the capture of Dejean,
came puffing homeward just in time to see a man at the door holding Alice a-tiptoe in his arms.

"Ziff!" he cried, as he pushed open the little front gate of the yard, "en voila assez, vogue
la galere!"

The two forms disappeared within the house, as if moved by his roaring voice.

The letter to Beverley from his father was somewhat disturbing. It bore the tidings of his
mother's failing health. This made it easier for the young Lieutenant to accept from Clark
the assignment to duty with a party detailed for the purpose of escorting Hamilton, Farnsworth
and several other British officers to Williamsburg, Virginia. It also gave him a most powerful
assistance in persuading Alice to marry him at once, so as to go with him on what proved to
be a delightful wedding journey through the great wilderness to the Old Dominion. Spring's
verdure burst abroad on the sunny hills as they slowly went their way; the mating birds sang
in every blooming brake and grove by which they passed, and in their joyous hearts they heard
the bubbling of love's eternal fountain.

CHAPTER XXIII

AND SO IT ENDED

Our story must end here, because at this point its current flows away forever from old Vincennes;
and it was only of the post on the Wabash that we set out to make a record. What befell Alice
and Beverley after they went to Virginia we could go on to tell; but that would be another
story. Suffice it to say, they lived happily ever after, or at least somewhat beyond three
score and ten, and left behind them a good name and numerous descendants.

How Alice found out her family in Virginia, we are not informed; but after a lapse of some
years from the date of her marriage, there appears in one of her letters a reference to an
estate inherited from her Tarleton ancestors, and her name appears in old records signed in
full, Alice Tarleton Beverley. A descendant of hers still treasures the locket, with its broken
miniature and battered crest, which won Beverley's life from Long-Hair, the savage. Beside
it, as carefully guarded, is the Indian charm-stone that stopped Hamilton's bullet over Alice's
heart The rapiers have somehow disappeared, and there is a tradition in the Tarleton family
that they were given by Alice to Gaspard Roussillon, who, after Madame Roussillon's death in
1790, went to New Orleans, where he stayed a year or two before embarking for France, whither
he took with him the beautiful pair of colechemardes and Jean the hunchback.

Oncle Jazon lived in Vincennes many years after the war was over; but he died at Natchez, Mississippi,
when ninety-three years old. He said, with almost his last breath, that he couldn't shoot very
well, even in his best days; but that he had, upon various occasions, "jes' kind o' happened
to hit a Injun in the lef' eye." They used to tell a story, as late as General Harrison's stay
in Vincennes, about how Oncle Jazon buried his collection of scalps, with great funeral solemnity,
as his part of the celebration of peace and independence about the year 1784.

Good old Father Beret died suddenly soon after Alice's marriage and departure for Virginia.
He was found lying face downward on the floor of his cabin. Near him, on a smooth part of a
puncheon, were the mildewed fragments of a letter, which he had been arranging, as if to read
its contents. Doubtless it was the same letter brought to him by Rene de Ronville, as recorded
in an early chapter of our story. The fragments were gathered up and buried with him. His dust
lies under the present Church of St. Xavier,--the dust of as noble a man and as true a priest
as ever sacrificed himself for the good of humanity.

In after years Simon Kenton visited Beverley and Alice in their Virginia home. To his dying
day he was fond of describing their happy and hospitable welcome and the luxuries to which
they introduced him. They lived in a stately white mansion on a hill overlooking a vast tobacco
plantation, where hundreds of negro slaves worked and sang by day and frolicked by night. Their
oldest child was named Fitzhugh Gaspard. Kenton died in 1836.

There remains but one little fact worth recording before we close the book. In the year 1800,
on the fourth of July, a certain leading French family of Vincennes held a patriotic reunion,
during which a little old flag was produced and its story told. Some one happily proposed that
it be sent to Mrs. Alice Tarleton Beverley with a letter of explanation, and in profound recognition
of the glorious circumstances which made it the true flag of the great Northwest.

And so it happened that Alice's little banner went to Virginia and is still preserved in an
old mansion not very far from Monticello; but it seems likely that the Wabash Valley will soon
again possess the precious relic. The marriage engagement of Miss Alice Beverley to a young
Indiana officer, distinguished for his patriotism and military ardor, has been announced at
the old Beverley homestead on the hill, and the high contracting parties have planned that
the wedding ceremony shall take place under the famous little flag, on the anniversary of dark's
capture of Post Vincennes. When the bride shall be brought to her new home on the banks of
the Wabash, the flag will come with her; but Oncle Jazon will not be on hand with his falsetto
shout: "VIVE LA BANNIERE D'ALICE ROUSSILLON! VIVE ZHORZZH VASINTON!"