STUDIES IN OCCULTISM

by

H.P. BLAVATSKY

STUDIES IN OCCULTISM

A Series of Reprints from the Writings

of

H.P. BLAVATSKY

NO. 1

PRACTICAL OCCULTISM

OCCULTISM VERSUS THE OCCULT ARTS

THE BLESSINGS OF PUBLICITY

POINT LOMA EDITION

The Aryan Theosophical Press Point Loma, California 1910

See Book List at the end of this volume for the other numbers of this Series and also for other
Theosophical literature.

CONTENTS

                                      PAGE

Practical Occultism                      1
  From Lucifer, April, 1888

Occultism versus the Occult Arts        17
  From Lucifer, May, 1888

The Blessings of Publicity              42
  From Lucifer, August, 1891

Occultism is not magic, though magic is one of its tools.

Occultism is not the acquirement of powers, whether psychic or intellectual, though both are
its servants. Neither is occultism the pursuit of happiness, as men understand the word; for
the first step is sacrifice, the second, renunciation.

Occultism is the science of life, the art of living.--Lucifer, Vol. I, p. 7.

PRACTICAL OCCULTISM

IMPORTANT TO STUDENTS

As some of the letters in the Correspondence of this month show, there are many people who
are looking for practical instruction in Occultism. It becomes necessary, therefore, to state
once for all:--

(a) The essential difference between theoretical and practical Occultism; or what is generally
known as Theosophy on the one hand, and Occult science on the other, and:--

(b) The nature of the difficulties involved in the study of the latter.

It is easy to become a Theosophist. Any person of average intellectual capacities, and a leaning
toward the metaphysical; of pure, unselfish life, who finds more joy in helping his neighbor
than in receiving help himself; one who is ever ready to sacrifice his own pleasures for the
sake of other people; and who loves Truth, Goodness, and Wisdom for their own sake, not for
the benefit they may confer--is a Theosophist.

But it is quite another matter to put oneself upon the path which leads to the knowledge of
what is good to do, as to the right discrimination of good from evil; a path which also leads
a man to that power through which he can do the good he desires, often without even apparently
lifting a finger.

Moreover, there is one important fact with which the student should be made acquainted. Namely,
the enormous, almost limitless responsibility assumed by the teacher for the sake of the pupil.
From the Gurus of the East who teach openly or secretly, down to the few Kabalists in Western
lands who undertake to teach the rudiments of the Sacred Science to their disciples--those
western Hierophants being often themselves ignorant of the danger they incur--one and all of
these "Teachers" are subject to the same inviolable law. From the moment they begin really
to teach, from the instant they confer any power--whether psychic, mental, or physical--on
their pupils, they take upon themselves all the sins of that pupil, in connexion with the Occult
Sciences, whether of omission or commission, until the moment when initiation makes the pupil
a Master and responsible in his turn. There is a weird and mystic religious law, greatly reverenced
and acted upon in the Greek, half-forgotten in the Roman Catholic, and absolutely extinct in
the Protestant Church. It dates from the earliest days of Christianity and has its basis in
the law just stated, of which it was a symbol and an expression. This is the dogma of the absolute
sacredness of the relation between the god-parents who stand sponsors for a child.[A]

These tacitly take upon themselves all the sins of the newly baptized child--(anointed, as
at the initiation, a mystery truly!)--until the day when the child becomes a responsible unit,
knowing good and evil. Thus it is clear why the "Teachers" are so reticent, and why "Chelas"
are required to serve a seven years probation to prove their fitness, and develop the qualities
necessary to the security of both Master and pupil.

Occultism is not magic. It is comparatively easy to learn the trick of spells and the methods
of using the subtler, but still material, forces of physical nature; the powers of the animal
soul in man are soon awakened; the forces which his love, his hate, his passion, can call into
operation, are readily developed. But this is Black Magic--Sorcery. For it is the motive, and
the motive alone, which makes any exercise of power become black, malignant, or white, beneficent
Magic. It is impossible to employ spiritual forces if there is the slightest tinge of selfishness
remaining in the operator. For, unless the intention is entirely unalloyed, the spiritual will
transform itself into the psychic, act on the astral plane, and dire results may be produced
by it. The powers and forces of animal nature can equally be used by the selfish and revengeful,
as by the unselfish and the all-forgiving; the powers and forces of spirit lend themselves
only to the perfectly pure in heart--and this is Divine Magic.

What are then the conditions required to become a student of the "Divina Sapientia"? For let
it be known that no such instruction can possibly be given unless these certain conditions
are complied with, and rigorously carried out during the years of study. This is a sine quâ
non. No man can swim unless he enters deep water. No bird can fly unless its wings are grown,
and it has space before it and courage to trust itself to the air. A man who will wield a two-edged
sword, must be a thorough master of the blunt weapon, if he would not injure himself--or what
is worse--others, at the first attempt.

To give an approximate idea of the conditions under which alone the study of Divine Wisdom
can be pursued with safety, that is without danger that Divine will give place to Black Magic,
a page is given from the "private rules," with which every instructor in the East is furnished.
The few passages which follow are chosen from a great number and explained in brackets.

       *       *       *       *       *

1. The place selected for receiving instruction must be a spot calculated not to distract the
mind, and filled with "influence-evolving" (magnetic) objects. The five sacred colors gathered
in a circle must be there among other things. The place must be free from any malignant influences
hanging about in the air.

     [The place must be set apart, and used for no other purpose. The
     five "sacred colors" are the prismatic hues arranged in a certain
     way, as these colors are very magnetic. By "malignant influences"
     are meant any disturbances through strifes, quarrels, bad feelings,
     etc., as these are said to impress themselves immediately on the
     astral light, i.e., in the atmosphere of the place, and to hang
     "about in the air." This first condition seems easy enough to
     accomplish, yet--on further consideration, it is one of the most
     difficult ones to obtain.]

2. Before the disciple shall be permitted to study "face to face," he has to acquire preliminary
understanding in a select company of other lay upâsakas (disciples), the number of whom must
be odd.

     ["Face to face" means in this instance a study independent or apart
     from others, when the disciple gets his instruction face to face
     either with himself (his higher, Divine Self) or--his guru. It is
     then only that each receives his due of information, according to
     the use he has made of his knowledge. This can happen only toward
     the end of the cycle of instruction.]

3. Before thou (the teacher) shalt impart to thy Lanoo (disciple) the good (holy) words of
Lamrin, or shalt permit him "to make ready" for Dubjed, thou shalt take care that his mind
is thoroughly purified and at peace with all, especially with his other Selves. Otherwise the
words of Wisdom and of the good Law, shall scatter and be picked up by the winds.

     ["Lamrin" is a work of practical instructions, by Tson-kha-pa, in
     two portions, one for ecclesiastical and exoteric purposes, the
     other for esoteric use. "To make ready" for Dubjed, is to prepare
     the vessels used for seership, such as mirrors and crystals. The
     "other selves," refers to the fellow students. Unless the greatest
     harmony reigns among the learners, no success is possible. It is
     the teacher who makes the selections according to the magnetic and
     electric natures of the students, bringing together and adjusting
     most carefully the positive and the negative elements.]

4. The upâsakas while studying must take care to be united as the fingers on one hand. Thou
shalt impress upon their minds that whatever hurts one should hurt the others, and if the rejoicing
of one finds no echo in the breasts of the others, then the required conditions are absent,
and it is useless to proceed.

     [This can hardly happen if the preliminary choice made was
     consistent with the magnetic requirements. It is known that Chelas
     otherwise promising and fit for the reception of truth, had to
     wait for years on account of their temper and the impossibility
     they felt to put themselves in tune with their companions. For--]

5. The co-disciples must be tuned by the guru as the strings of a lute (vina) each different
from the others, yet each emitting sounds in harmony with all. Collectively they must form
a key-board answering in all its parts to thy lightest touch (the touch of the Master). Thus
their minds shall open for the harmonies of Wisdom, to vibrate as knowledge through each and
all, resulting in effects pleasing to the presiding gods (tutelary or patron-angels) and useful
to the Lanoo. So shall Wisdom be impressed forever on their hearts and the harmony of the law
shall never be broken.

6. Those who desire to acquire the knowledge leading to the Siddhis (occult powers) have to
renounce all the vanities of life and of the world (here follows enumeration of the Siddhis).

7. None can feel the difference between himself and his fellow-students, such as "I am the
wisest," "I am more holy and pleasing to the teacher, or in my community, than my brother,"
etc.,--and remain an upâsaka. His thoughts must be predominantly fixed upon his heart, chasing
therefrom every hostile thought to any living being. It (the heart) must be full of the feeling
of its non-separateness from the rest of beings as from all in Nature; otherwise no success
can follow.

8. A Lanoo (disciple) has to dread external living influence alone (magnetic emanations from
living creatures). For this reason while at one with all, in his inner nature, he must take
care to separate his outer (external) body from every foreign influence: none must drink out
of, or eat in his cup but himself. He must avoid bodily contact (i.e., being touched or touch)
with human, as with animal being.

     [No pet animals are permitted, and it is forbidden even to touch
     certain trees and plants. A disciple has to live, so to say, in his
     own atmosphere in order to individualize it for occult purposes.]

9. The mind must remain blunt to all but the universal truths in nature, lest the "Doctrine
of the Heart" should become only the "Doctrine of the Eye," (i.e., empty exoteric ritualism).

10. No animal food of whatever kind, nothing that has life in it should be taken by the disciple.
No wine, no spirits, or opium should be used; for these are like the Lhama-yin (evil spirits),
who fasten upon the unwary, they devour the understanding.

     [Wine and spirits are supposed to contain and preserve the bad
     magnetism of all the men who helped in their fabrication; the meat
     of each animal, to preserve the psychic characteristics of its
     kind.]

11. Meditation, abstinence in all, the observation of moral duties, gentle thoughts, good deeds
and kind words, as good will to all and entire oblivion of Self, are the most efficacious means
of obtaining knowledge and preparing for the reception of higher wisdom.

12. It is only by virtue of a strict observance of the foregoing rules that a Lanoo can hope
to acquire in good time the Siddhis of the Arhats, the growth which makes him become gradually
One with the Universal ALL.

       *       *       *       *       *

These 12 extracts are taken from among some 73 rules, to enumerate which would be useless as
they would be meaningless in Europe. But even these few are enough to show the immensity of
the difficulties which beset the path of the would-be "Upâsaka," who has been born and bred
in Western lands.[B]

All western, and especially English, education is instinct with the principle of emulation
and strife; each boy is urged to learn more quickly, to outstrip his companions, and to surpass
them in every possible way. What is mis-called "friendly rivalry" is assiduously cultivated,
and the same spirit is fostered and strengthened in every detail of life.

With such ideas "educated into" him from his childhood, how can a Western bring himself to
feel towards his co-students "as the fingers on one hand"? Those co-students, too, are not
of his own selection, or chosen by himself from personal sympathy and appreciation. They are
chosen by his teacher on far other grounds, and he who would be a student must first be strong
enough to kill out in his heart all feelings of dislike and antipathy to others. How many Westerns
are ready even to attempt this in earnest?

And then the details of daily life, the command not to touch even the hand of one's nearest
and dearest. How contrary to Western notions of affection and good feeling! How cold and hard
it seems. Egotistical too, people would say, to abstain from giving pleasure to others for
the sake of one's own development. Well, let those who think so defer till another lifetime
the attempt to enter the path in real earnest. But let them not glory in their own fancied
unselfishness. For, in reality, it is only the seeming appearances which they allow to deceive
them, the conventional notions, based on emotionalism and gush, or so-called courtesy, things
of the unreal life, not the dictates of Truth.

But even putting aside these difficulties, which may be considered "external," though their
importance is none the less great, how are students in the West to "attune themselves" to harmony
as here required of them? So strong has personality grown in Europe and America, that there
is no school of artists even whose members do not hate and are not jealous of each other. "Professional"
hatred and envy have become proverbial; men seek each to benefit himself at all costs, and
even the so-called courtesies of life are but a hollow mask covering these demons of hatred
and jealousy.

In the East the spirit of "non-separateness" is inculcated as steadily from childhood up, as
in the West the spirit of rivalry. Personal ambition, personal feelings and desires, are not
encouraged to grow so rampant there. When the soil is naturally good, it is cultivated in the
right way, and the child grows into a man in whom the habit of subordination of one's lower
to one's higher Self is strong and powerful. In the West men think that their own likes and
dislikes of other men and things are guiding principles for them to act upon, even when they
do not make of them the law of their lives and seek to impose them upon others.

Let those who complain that they have learned little in the Theosophical Society lay to heart
the words written in an article in the Path for last February:--"The key in each degree is
the aspirant himself." It is not "the fear of God" which is "the beginning of Wisdom," but
the knowledge of SELF which is WISDOM ITSELF.

How grand and true appears, thus, to the student of Occultism who has commenced to realize
some of the foregoing truths, the answer given by the Delphic Oracle to all who came seeking
after Occult Wisdom--words repeated and enforced again and again by the wise Socrates:--MAN
KNOW THYSELF.

Chelaship has nothing whatever to do with means of subsistence or anything of the kind, for
a man can isolate his mind entirely from his body and its surroundings. Chelaship is a state
of mind, rather than a life according to hard and fast rules, on the physical plane. This applies
especially to the earlier, probationary period, while the rules given in Lucifer for April
last pertain properly to a later stage, that of actual occult training and the development
of occult powers and insight. These rules indicate, however, the mode of life which ought to
be followed by all aspirants so far as practicable, since it is the most helpful to them in
their aspirations.

It should never be forgotten that Occultism is concerned with the inner man, who must be strengthened
and freed from the dominion of the physical body and its surroundings, which must become his
servants. Hence the first and chief necessity of Chelaship is a spirit of absolute unselfishness
and devotion to Truth; then follow self-knowledge and self-mastery. These are all-important;
while outward observance of fixed rules of life is a matter of secondary moment.--Lucifer:
IV, 348, note.

OCCULTISM VERSUS THE OCCULT ARTS

    "I oft have heard, but ne'er believed till now,
    There are, who can by potent magic spells
    Bend to their crooked purpose Nature's laws."
                                        Milton

In this month's Correspondence several letters testify to the strong impression produced on
some minds by our last month's article "Practical Occultism." Such letters go far to prove
and strengthen two logical conclusions:--

(a) There are more well-educated and thoughtful men who believe in the existence of Occultism
and Magic (the two differing vastly) than the modern materialist dreams of; and:--

(b) That most of the believers (comprising many theosophists) have no definite idea of the
nature of Occultism and confuse it with the Occult sciences in general, the "Black art" included.

Their representations of the powers it confers upon man, and of the means to be used to acquire
them are as varied as they are fanciful. Some imagine that a master in the art, to show the
way, is all that is needed to become a Zanoni. Others, that one has but to cross the Canal
of Suez and go to India to bloom forth as a Roger Bacon or even a Count St. Germain. Many take
for their ideal Margrave with his ever-renewing youth, and care little for the soul as the
price paid for it. Not a few, mistaking "Witch-of-Endorism" pure and simple, for Occultism--"through
the yawning Earth from Stygian gloom, call up the meager ghost to walks of light," and want,
on the strength of this feat, to be regarded as full blown Adepts. "Ceremonial Magic" according
to the rules mockingly laid down by Éliphas Lévi, is another imagined alter ego of the philosophy
of the Arhats of old. In short, the prisms through which Occultism appears, to those innocent
of the philosophy, are as multicolored and varied as human fancy can make them.

Will these candidates to Wisdom and Power feel very indignant if told the plain truth? It is
not only useful, but it has now become necessary to disabuse most of them and before it is
too late. This truth may be said in a few words: There are not in the West half-a-dozen among
the fervent hundreds who call themselves "Occultists," who have even an approximately correct
idea of the nature of the Science they seek to master. With a few exceptions, they are all
on the highway to Sorcery. Let them restore some order in the chaos that reigns in their minds,
before they protest against this statement. Let them first learn the true relation in which
the Occult Sciences stand to Occultism, and the difference between the two, and then feel wrathful
if they still think themselves right. Meanwhile, let them learn that Occultism differs from
Magic and other secret Sciences as the glorious Sun does from a rush-light, as the immutable
and immortal Spirit of Man--the reflection of the absolute, causeless, and unknowable all,--differs
from the mortal clay--the human body.

In our highly civilized West, where modern languages have been formed, and words coined, in
the wake of ideas and thoughts--as happened with every tongue--the more the latter became materialized
in the cold atmosphere of Western selfishness and its incessant chase after the goods of this
world, the less was there any need felt for the production of new terms to express that which
was tacitly regarded as obsolete and exploded "superstition." Such words could answer only
to ideas which a cultured man was scarcely supposed to harbor in his mind. "Magic," a synonym
for jugglery; "Sorcery," an equivalent for crass ignorance; and "Occultism," the sorry relic
of crack-brained, medieval Fire-philosophers, of the Jacob Boehmes and the St. Martins, are
expressions believed more than amply sufficient to cover the whole field of "thimble-rigging."
They are terms of contempt, and used generally only in reference to the dross and residues
of the Dark Ages and its preceding aeons of paganism. Therefore have we no terms in the English
tongue to define and shade the difference between such abnormal powers, or the sciences that
lead to the acquisition of them, with the nicety possible in the Eastern languages--pre-eminently
the Sanskrit. What do the words "miracle" and "enchantment" (words identical in meaning after
all, as both express the idea of producing wonderful things by breaking the laws of nature
[!!] as explained by the accepted authorities) convey to the minds of those who hear, or who
pronounce them? A Christian--breaking "of the laws of nature," notwithstanding--while believing
firmly in the miracles, because said to have been produced by God through Moses, will either
scout the enchantments performed by Pharoah's magicians, or attribute them to the devil. It
is the latter whom our pious enemies connect with Occultism, while their impious foes, the
infidels, laugh at Moses, Magicians, and Occultists, and would blush to give one serious thought
to such "superstitions." This, because there is no term in existence to show the difference;
no words to express the lights and shadows and draw the line of demarcation between the sublime
and the true, the absurd and the ridiculous. The latter are the theological interpretations
which teach the "breaking of the laws of Nature" by man, God, or devil; the former--the scientific
"miracles" and enchantments of Moses and the Magicians in accordance with natural laws, both
having been learned in all the Wisdom of the Sanctuaries, which were the "Royal Societies"
of those days--and in true OCCULTISM. This last word is certainly misleading, translated as
it stands from the compound word Guptâ-Vidyâ, "Secret Knowledge." But the knowledge of what?
Some of the Sanskrit terms may help us.

There are four (out of the many other) names of the various kinds of Esoteric Knowledge or
Sciences given, even in the exoteric Purânas. There is (1) Yajña-Vidyâ,[C] knowledge of the
occult powers awakened in Nature by the performance of certain religious ceremonies and rites.
(2) Mahâ-Vidyâ, the "great knowledge," the magic of the Kabalists and of the Tântrika worship,
often Sorcery of the worst description. (3) Guhyâ-Vidyâ, knowledge of the mystic powers residing
in Sound (Ether), hence in the Mantras (chanted prayers or incantations) and depending on the
rhythm and melody used; in other words a magical performance based on Knowledge of the Forces
of Nature and their correlation; and (4) Âtma-Vidyâ, a term which is translated simply "Knowledge
of the Soul," true Wisdom by the Orientalists, but which means far more.

This last is the only kind of Occultism that any Theosophist who admires Light on the Path,
and who would be wise and unselfish, ought to strive after. All the rest is some branch of
the "Occult Sciences," i.e., arts based on the knowledge of the ultimate essence of all things
in the Kingdom of Nature--such as minerals, plants, and animals--hence of things pertaining
to the realm of material Nature, however invisible that essence may be, and howsoever much
it has hitherto eluded the grasp of Science. Alchemy, Astrology, Occult Physiology, Chiromancy
exist in Nature, and the exact Sciences--perhaps so called because they are found in this age
of paradoxical philosophies the reverse--have already discovered not a few of the secrets of
the above arts. But clairvoyance, symbolized in India as the "Eye of Siva," called in Japan,
"Infinite Vision," is not Hypnotism, the illegitimate son of Mesmerism, and is not to be acquired
by such arts. All the others may be mastered and results obtained, whether good, bad, or indifferent;
but Âtma-Vidyâ sets small value on them. It includes them all, and may even use them occasionally,
but it does so after purifying them of their dross, for beneficent purposes, and taking care
to deprive them of every element of selfish motive. Let us explain: Any man or woman can set
himself or herself to study one or all of the above specified "Occult Arts" without any great
previous preparation, and even without adopting any too restraining mode of life. One could
even dispense with any lofty standard of morality. In the last case, of course, ten to one
the student would blossom into a very decent kind of sorcerer, and tumble down headlong into
black magic. But what can this matter? The Voodoos and the Dugpas eat, drink and are merry
over hecatombs of victims of their infernal arts. And so do the amiable gentlemen vivisectionists
and the diploma-ed "Hypnotizers" of the Faculties of Medicine; the only difference between
the two classes being that the Voodoos and the Dugpas are conscious, and the Charcot-Richet
crew unconscious Sorcerers. Thus, since both have to reap the fruits of their labors and achievements
in the black art, the Western practitioners should not have the punishment and reputation without
the profits and enjoyments they may get therefrom. For we say it again, hypnotism and vivisection
as practised in such schools, are Sorcery pure and simple, minus a knowledge that the Voodoos
and Dugpas enjoy, and which no Charcot-Richet can procure for himself in fifty years of hard
study and experimental observation. Let then those who will dabble in magic, whether they understand
its nature or not, but who find the rules imposed upon students too hard, and who, therefore,
lay Âtma-Vidyâ or Occultism aside--go without it. Let them become magicians by all means, even
though they do become Voodoos and Dugpas for the next ten incarnations.

But the interest of our readers will probably center on those who are invincibly attracted
towards the "Occult," yet who neither realize the true nature of what they aspire towards,
nor have they become passion-proof, far less truly unselfish.

How about these unfortunates, we shall be asked, who are thus rent in twain by conflicting
forces? For it has been said too often to need repetition, and the fact itself is patent to
any observer, that when once the desire for Occultism has really awakened in a man's heart,
there remains for him no hope of peace, no place of rest and comfort in all the world. He is
driven out into the wild and desolate spaces of life by an ever-gnawing unrest he cannot quell.
His heart is too full of passion and selfish desire to permit him to pass the Golden Gate;
he cannot find rest or peace in ordinary life. Must he then inevitably fall into sorcery and
black magic, and through many incarnations heap up for himself a terrible Karma? Is there no
other road for him?

Indeed there is, we answer. Let him aspire to no higher than he feels able to accomplish. Let
him not take a burden upon himself too heavy for him to carry. Without ever becoming a "Mahâtmâ,"
a Buddha, or a Great Saint, let him study the philosophy and the "Science of Soul," and he
can become one of the modest benefactors of humanity, without any "superhuman" powers. Siddhis
(or the Arhat powers) are only for those who are able to "lead the life," to comply with the
terrible sacrifices required for such a training, and to comply with them to the very letter.
Let them know at once and remember always, that true Occultism or Theosophy is the "Great Renunciation
of SELF," unconditionally and absolutely, in thought as in action. It is ALTRUISM, and it throws
him who practises it out of calculation of the ranks of the living altogether. "Not for himself,
but for the world, he lives," as soon as he has pledged himself to the work. Much is forgiven
during the first years of probation. But, no sooner is he "accepted" than his personality must
disappear, and he has to become a mere beneficent force in Nature. There are two poles for
him after that, two paths, and no midward place of rest. He has either to ascend laboriously,
step by step, often through numerous incarnations and no Devachanic break, the golden ladder
leading to Mahâtmâship (the Arhat or Bodhisattva condition), or--he will let himself slide
down the ladder at the first false step, and roll down into Dugpa-ship....

All this is either unknown or left out of sight altogether. Indeed, one who is able to follow
the silent evolution of the preliminary aspirations of the candidates, often finds strange
ideas quietly taking possession of their minds. There are those whose reasoning powers have
been so distorted by foreign influences that they imagine that animal passions can be so sublimated
and elevated that their fury, force, and fire can, so to speak, be turned inwards; that they
can be stored and shut up in one's breast, until their energy is, not expanded, but turned
toward higher and more holy purposes; namely, until their collective and unexpanded strength
enables their possessor to enter the true Sanctuary of the Soul and stand therein in the presence
of the Master--the Higher Self! For this purpose they will not struggle with their passions
nor slay them. They will simply, by a strong effort of will put down the fierce flames and
keep them at bay within their natures, allowing the fire to smolder under a thin layer of ashes.
They submit joyfully to the torture of the Spartan boy who allowed the fox to devour his entrails
rather than part with it. Oh, poor, blind visionaries!

As well hope that a band of drunken chimney-sweeps, hot and greasy from their work, may be
shut up in a Sanctuary hung with pure white linen, and that instead of soiling and turning
it by their presence into a heap of dirty shreds, they will become masters in and of the sacred
recess, and finally emerge from it as immaculate as that recess. Why not imagine that a dozen
of skunks imprisoned in the pure atmosphere of a Dgon-pa (a monastery) can issue out of it
impregnated with all the perfumes of the incenses used?... Strange aberration of the human
mind. Can it be so? Let us argue.

The "Master" in the Sanctuary of our souls is "the Higher Self"--the divine spirit whose consciousness
is based upon and derived solely (at any rate during the mortal life of the man in whom it
is captive) from the Mind, which we have agreed to call the Human Soul (the "Spiritual Soul"
being the vehicle of the Spirit). In its turn the former (the personal or human soul) is a
compound in its highest form, of spiritual aspirations, volitions and divine love; and in its
lower aspect, of animal desires and terrestrial passions imparted to it by its associations
with its vehicle, the seat of all these. It thus stands as a link and a medium between the
animal nature of man which its higher reason seeks to subdue, and his divine spiritual nature
to which it gravitates, whenever it has the upper hand in its struggle with the inner animal.
The latter is the instinctual "animal Soul" and is the hotbed of those passions, which, as
just shown, are lulled instead of being killed, and locked up in their breasts by some imprudent
enthusiasts. Do they still hope to turn thereby the muddy stream of the animal sewer into the
crystalline waters of life? And where, on what neutral ground can they be imprisoned so as
not to affect man? The fierce passions of love and lust are still alive and they are allowed
to still remain in the place of their birth--that same animal soul; for both the higher and
the lower portions of the "Human Soul" or Mind reject such inmates, though they cannot avoid
being tainted with them as neighbors. The "Higher Self" or Spirit is as unable to assimilate
such feelings as water to get mixed with oil or unclean liquid tallow. It is thus the mind
alone--the sole link and medium between the man of earth and the Higher Self--that is the only
sufferer, and which is in the incessant danger of being dragged down by those passions that
may be reawakened at any moment, and perish in the abyss of matter. And how can it ever attune
itself to the divine harmony of the highest Principle, when that harmony is destroyed by the
mere presence, within the Sanctuary in preparation, of such animal passions? How can harmony
prevail and conquer, when the soul is stained and distracted with the turmoil of passions and
the terrestrial desires of the bodily senses, or even of the "Astral man"?

For this "Astral"--the shadowy "double" (in the animal as in man)--is not the companion of
the divine Ego but of the earthly body. It is the link between the personal Self, the lower
consciousness of Manas and the Body, and is the vehicle of transitory, not of immortal life.
Like the shadow projected by man, it follows his movements and impulses slavishly and mechanically,
and leans therefore to matter without ever ascending to Spirit. It is only when the power of
the passions is dead altogether, and when they have been crushed and annihilated in the retort
of an unflinching will; when not only all the lusts and longings of the flesh are dead, but
also the recognition of the personal Self is killed out and the "astral" has been reduced in
consequence to a cipher, that the Union with the "Higher Self" can take place. Then when the
"astral" reflects only the conquered man, the still living, but no more the longing, selfish
personality, then the brilliant Augoeides, the divine Self, can vibrate in conscious harmony
with both the poles of the human Entity--the man of matter purified, and the ever pure Spiritual
Soul--and stand in the presence of the Master Self, the Christos of the mystic Gnostics, blended,
merged into, and one with IT for ever.[D]

How then can it be thought possible for a man to enter the "strait gate" of occultism when
his daily and hourly thoughts are bound up with worldly things, desires of possession and power,
with lust, ambition and duties, which, however honorable, are still of the earth earthy? Even
the love for wife and family--the purest as the most unselfish of human affections--is a barrier
to real occultism. For whether we take as an example the holy love of a mother for her child,
or that of a husband for his wife, even in these feelings, when analysed to the very bottom,
and thoroughly sifted, there is still selfishness in the first, and an égoisme à deux in the
second instance. What mother would not sacrifice without a moment's hesitation hundreds and
thousands of lives for that of the child of her heart? and what lover or true husband would
not break the happiness of every other man and woman around him to satisfy the desire of one
whom he loves? This is but natural, we shall be told. Quite so; in the light of the code of
human affections; less so, in that of divine universal love. For, while the heart is full of
thoughts for a little group of selves, near and dear to us, how shall the rest of mankind fare
in our souls? What percentage of love and care will there remain to bestow on the "great orphan"?
And how shall the "still small voice" make itself heard in a soul entirely occupied with its
own privileged tenants? What room is there left for the needs of Humanity en bloc to impress
themselves upon, or even receive a speedy response? And yet, he who would profit by the wisdom
of the universal mind, has to reach it through the whole of Humanity without distinction of
race, complexion, religion or social status. It is altruism, not ego-ism even in its most legal
and noble conception, that can lead the unit to merge its little Self in the Universal Selves.
It is to these needs and to this work that the true disciple of true Occultism has to devote
himself, if he would obtain theo-sophy, divine Wisdom and Knowledge.

The aspirant has to choose absolutely between the life of the world and the life of Occultism.
It is useless and vain to endeavor to unite the two, for no one can serve two masters and satisfy
both. No one can serve his body and the higher Soul, and do his family duty and his universal
duty, without depriving either one or the other of its rights; for he will either lend his
ear to the "still small voice" and fail to hear the cries of his little ones, or, he will listen
but to the wants of the latter and remain deaf to the voice of Humanity. It would be a ceaseless,
a maddening struggle for almost any married man, who would pursue true practical Occultism,
instead of its theoretical philosophy. For he would find himself ever hesitating between the
voice of the impersonal divine love of Humanity, and that of the personal, terrestrial love.
And this could only lead him to fail in one or the other, or perhaps in both his duties. Worse
than this; for, whoever indulges, after having pledged himself to OCCULTISM, in the gratification
of a terrestrial love or lust, must feel an almost immediate result; that of being irresistibly
dragged from the impersonal divine state down to the lower plane of matter. Sensual, or even
mental self-gratification, involves the immediate loss of the powers of spiritual discernment;
the voice of the MASTER can no longer be distinguished from that of one's passions or even
that of a Dugpa; the right from wrong; sound morality from mere casuistry. The Dead Sea fruit
assumes the most glorious mystic appearance, only to turn to ashes on the lips, and to gall
in the heart, resulting in:--

    Depth ever deepening, darkness darkening still;
    Folly for wisdom, guilt for innocence;
    Anguish for rapture, and for hope despair.

And once being mistaken and having acted on their mistakes, most men shrink from realizing
their error, and thus descend deeper and deeper into the mire. And, although it is the intention
that decides primarily whether white or black magic is exercised, yet the results even of involuntary,
unconscious sorcery cannot fail to be productive of bad Karma. Enough has been said to show
that sorcery is any kind of evil influence exercised upon other persons, who suffer, or make
other persons suffer, in consequence. Karma is a heavy stone splashed in the quiet waters of
Life; and it must produce ever widening circles of ripples, carried wider and wider, almost
ad infinitum. Such causes produced have to call forth effects, and these are evidenced in the
just laws of Retribution.

Much of this may be avoided if people will only abstain from rushing into practices neither
the nature nor importance of which they understand. No one is expected to carry a burden beyond
his strength and powers. There are "natural-born magicians"; Mystics and Occultists by birth,
and by right of direct inheritance from a series of incarnations and aeons of suffering and
failures. These are passion-proof, so to say. No fires of earthly origin can fan into a flame
any of their senses or desires; no human voice can find response in their souls, except the
great cry of Humanity. These only may be certain of success. But they can be met only far and
wide, and they pass through the narrow gates of Occultism because they carry no personal luggage
of human transitory sentiments along with them. They have got rid of the feeling of the lower
personality, paralysed thereby the "astral" animal, and the golden, but narrow gate is thrown
open before them. Not so with those who have to carry yet for several incarnations the burden
of sins committed in previous lives, and even in their present existence. For such, unless
they proceed with great caution, the golden gate of Wisdom may get transformed into the wide
gate and the broad way "that leadeth unto destruction," and therefore "many be they that enter
in thereby." This is the Gate of the Occult arts, practised for selfish motives and in the
absence of the restraining and beneficent influence of Âtma-Vidyâ. We are in the Kali Yuga
and its fatal influence is a thousand-fold more powerful in the West than it is in the East;
hence the easy preys made by the Powers of the Age of Darkness in this cyclic struggle, and
the many delusions under which the world is now laboring. One of these is the relative facility
with which men fancy they can get at the "Gate" and cross the threshold of Occultism without
any great sacrifice. It is the dream of most Theosophists, one inspired by desire for Power
and personal selfishness, and it is not such feelings that can ever lead them to the coveted
goal. For, as well said by one believed to have sacrificed himself for Humanity--"Strait is
the gate and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life" eternal, and therefore "few there be
that find it." (Matt. vii, 14) So strait indeed, that at the bare mention of some of the preliminary
difficulties the affrighted Western candidates turn back and retreat with a shudder....

Let them stop here and attempt no more in their great weakness. For if,
while turning their backs on the narrow gate, they are dragged by their
desire for the Occult one step in the direction of the broad and more
inviting gates of that golden mystery which glitters in the light of
illusion, woe to them! They will tell you we cannot
     have their knowledge without living their life.... Public
     experimental research, the printing press, and a free-thought
     platform, have abolished the need of mystery. It is no longer
     necessary for science to take the veil, as she was forced to do for
     security in times past....

This is a very mistaken view in one aspect. "Secrets of the purer and profounder life" not
only may but must be made universally known. But there are secrets that kill in the arcana
of Occultism, and unless a man lives the life he cannot be entrusted with them.

The late Professor Faraday had very serious doubts whether it was quite wise and reasonable
to give out to the public at large certain discoveries of modern science. Chemistry had led
to the invention of too terrible means of destruction in our century to allow it to fall into
the hands of the profane. What man of sense--in the face of such fiendish applications of dynamite
and other explosive substances as are made by those incarnations of the Destroying Power, who
glory in calling themselves Anarchists and Socialists--would not agree with us in saying:--Far
better for mankind that it should never have blasted a rock by modern perfected means, than
that it should have shattered the limbs of one per cent even of those who have been thus destroyed
by the pitiless hand of Russian Nihilists, Irish Fenians, and Anarchists. That such discoveries,
and chiefly their murderous application, ought to have been withheld from public knowledge
may be shown on the authority of statistics and commissions appointed to investigate and record
the result of the evil done. The following information gathered from public papers will give
an insight into what may be in store for wretched mankind.

England alone--the center of civilization--has 21,268 firms fabricating and selling explosive
substances.[E] But the centers of the dynamite trade, of infernal machines, and other such
results of modern civilization, are chiefly at Philadelphia and New York. It is in the former
city of "Brotherly Love" that the now most famous manufacturer of explosives flourishes. It
is one of the well-known respectable citizens--the inventor and manufacturer of the most murderous
"dynamite toys"--who, called before the Senate of the United States anxious to adopt means
for the repression of a too free trade in such implements, found an argument that ought to
become immortalized for its cynical sophistry--"My machines," that expert is reported to have
said--"are quite harmless to look at; as they may be manufactured in the shape of oranges,
hats, boats, and anything one likes.... Criminal is he who murders people by means of such
machines, not he who manufactures them. The firm refuses to admit that were there no supply
there would be no incentive for demand on the market; but insists that every demand should
be satisfied by a supply ready at hand."

That "supply" is the fruit of civilization and of the publicity given to the discovery of every
murderous property in matter. What is it? As found in the Report of the Commission appointed
to investigate the variety and character of the so-called "infernal machines," so far the following
implements of instantaneous human destruction are already on hand. The most fashionable of
all among the many varieties fabricated by Mr. Holgate are the "Ticker," the "Eight Day Machine,"
the "Little Exterminator," and the "Bottle Machines." The "Ticker" is in appearance like a
piece of lead, a foot long and four inches thick. It contains an iron or steel tube full of
a kind of gunpowder invented by Holgate himself. That gunpowder, in appearance like any other
common stuff of that name, has, however, an explosive power two hundred times stronger than
common gunpowder; the "Ticker" containing thus a powder which equals in force two hundred pounds
of the common gunpowder. At one end of the machine is fastened an invisible clock-work meant
to regulate the time of the explosion, which time may be fixed from one minute to thirty-six
hours. The spark is produced by means of a steel needle which gives a spark at the touch-hole,
and communicates thereby the fire to the whole machine.

The "Eight Day Machine" is considered the most powerful, but at the same time the most complicated,
of all those invented. One must be familiar with handling it before a full success can be secured.
It is owing to this difficulty that the terrible fate intended for London Bridge and its neighborhood
was turned aside by the instantaneous killing instead of the two Fenian criminals. The size
and appearance of that machine changes, Proteus-like, according to the necessity of smuggling
it in, in one or another way, unperceived by the victims. It may be concealed in bread, in
a basket of oranges, in a liquid, and so on. The Commission of Experts is said to have declared
that its explosive power is such as to reduce to atoms instantly the largest edifice in the world.

The "Little Exterminator" is an innocent-looking plain utensil having the shape of a modest
jug. It contains neither dynamite nor powder, but secretes, nevertheless, a deadly gas, and
has a hardly perceptible clock-work attached to its edge, the needle of which points to the
time when that gas will effect its escape. In a shut-up room this new "vril" of lethal kind
will smother to death, nearly instantaneously, every living being within a distance of a hundred
feet radius of the murderous jug. With these three "latest novelties" in the high season of
Christian civilization, the catalog of the dynamiters is closed; all the rest belongs to the
old "fashion" of the past years. It consists of hats, porte cigars, bottles of ordinary kind,
and even ladies' smelling bottles, filled with dynamite, nitro-glycerin, etc., etc.--weapons,
some of which, following unconsciously Karmic law, killed many of the dynamiters in the last
Chicago revolution. Add to this the forthcoming long-promised Keeley's vibratory force, capable
of reducing in a few seconds a dead bullock to a heap of ashes, and then ask yourself if the
Inferno of Dante as a locality can ever rival earth in the production of more hellish engines
of destruction?

Thus, if purely material implements are capable of blowing up, from a few corners, the greatest
cities of the globe, provided the murderous weapons are guided by expert hands--what terrible
dangers might not arise from magical occult secrets being revealed, and allowed to fall into
the possession of ill-meaning persons! A thousand times more dangerous and lethal are these,
because neither the criminal hand, nor the immaterial invisible weapon used, can ever be detected.

The congenital black magicians--those who, to an innate propensity towards evil, unite highly-developed
mediumistic natures--are but too numerous in our age. It is nigh time then that the psychologists
and believers, at least, should cease advocating the beauties of publicity and claiming knowledge
of the secrets of nature for all. It is not in our age of "suggestion" and "explosives" that
Occultism can open wide the doors of its laboratories except to those who do live the life.

                                                            H.P.B.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] So holy is the connexion thus formed deemed in the Greek Church, that a marriage between
god-parents of the same child is regarded as the worst kind of incest, is considered illegal,
and is dissolved by law; and this absolute prohibition extends even to the children of one
of the sponsors as regards those of the other.

[B] Be it remembered that all "Chelas," even lay disciples, are called Upâsaka until after
their first initiation, when they become Lanoo-Upâsaka. To that day, even those who belong
to Lamaseries and are set apart, are considered as "laymen."

[C] "The Yajña," say the Brâhmans, "exists from eternity, for it proceeded forth from the Supreme
One ... in whom it lay dormant from 'no beginning.' It is the key to the Traividya, the thrice
sacred science contained in the Rig verses, which teaches the Yajus or sacrificial mysteries.
It is supposed to extend from the Ahavaniya or sacrificial fire to the heavens, forming a bridge
or ladder by means of which the sacrificer can communicate with the world of gods and spirits,
and even ascend when alive to their abodes."--Martin Haug's Aitareya Brâhmana.

"This Yajña is again one of the forms of the Âkâsa; and the mystic word calling it into existence
and pronounced mentally by the initiated Priest is the Lost Word receiving impulse through
WILL POWER."--Isis Unveiled, Vol. I. Introduction. See Aitareya Brâhmana, Haug.

[D] Those who would feel inclined to see three Egos in one man will show themselves unable
to perceive the metaphysical meaning. Man is a trinity composed of Body, Soul and Spirit; but
man is nevertheless one and is surely not his body. It is the latter which is the property,
the transitory clothing of the man. The three "Egos" are MAN in his three aspects on the astral,
intellectual or psychic, and the Spiritual planes, or states.

[E] Nitro-glycerin has found its way even into medical compounds. Physicians and druggists
are vying with the Anarchists in their endeavors to destroy the surplus of mankind. The famous
chocolate tablets against dyspepsia are said to contain nitro-glycerin! They may save, but
they can kill still more easily.

There is No Religion Higher than Truth

The Universal Brotherhood and Theosophical Society

Established for the benefit of the people of the earth & all creatures

       *       *       *       *       *

OBJECTS

This BROTHERHOOD is part of a great and universal movement which has been active in all ages.

This Organization declares that Brotherhood is a fact in Nature. Its principal purpose is to
teach Brotherhood, demonstrate that it is a fact in nature and make it a living power in the
life of humanity.

Its subsidiary purpose is to study ancient and modern religions, science, philosophy and art;
to investigate the laws of nature and the divine powers in man.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Universal Brotherhood and Theosophical Society, founded by H.P. Blavatsky at New York,
1875, continued after her death under the leadership of the co-founder, William Q. Judge, and
now under the leadership of their successor, Katherine Tingley, has its Headquarters at the
International Theosophical Center, Point Loma, California.

This Organization is not in any way connected with nor does it endorse any other societies
using the name of Theosophy.

The Universal Brotherhood and Theosophical Society welcomes to membership all who truly love
their fellow men and desire the eradication of the evils caused by the barriers of race, creed,
caste or color, which have so long impeded human progress; to all sincere lovers of truth and
to all who aspire to higher and better things than the mere pleasures and interests of a worldly
life, and are prepared to do all in their power to make Brotherhood a living energy in the
life of humanity, its various departments offer unlimited opportunities.

The whole work of the Organization is under the direction of the Leader and Official Head,
Katherine Tingley, as outlined in the Constitution.

       *       *       *       *       *

Do not fail to profit by the following:

     It is a regrettable fact that many people use the name of Theosophy
     and of our Organization for self-interest, as also that of H.P.
     Blavatsky, the Foundress, to attract attention to themselves and to
     gain public support. This they do in private and public speech and
     in publications, also by lecturing throughout the country. Without
     being in any way connected with the Universal Brotherhood and
     Theosophical Society, in many cases they permit it to be
     inferred that they are, thus misleading the public, and many honest
     inquirers are hence led away from the truths of Theosophy as
     presented by H.P. Blavatsky and her successors, William Q. Judge
     and Katherine Tingley, and practically exemplified in their
     Theosophical work for the uplifting of humanity.

The International Brotherhood League

Founded in 1897 by Katherine Tingley

ITS OBJECTS ARE:

1. To help men and women to realize the nobility of their calling and their true position in life.

2. To educate children of all nations on the broadest lines of Universal Brotherhood, and to
prepare destitute and homeless children to become workers for humanity.

3. To ameliorate the condition of unfortunate women, and assist them to a higher life.

4. To assist those who are, or have been, in prisons, to establish themselves in honorable
positions in life.

5. To abolish capital punishment.

6. To bring about a better understanding between so-called savage and civilized races, by promoting
a closer and more sympathetic relationship between them.

7. To relieve human suffering resulting from flood, famine, war, and other calamities; and,
generally, to extend aid, help and comfort to suffering humanity throughout the world.

For further information regarding the above Notices, address

KATHERINE TINGLEY International Theosophical Headquarters, Point Loma, California

Books Recommended to Inquirers

For complete Book List write to

The Theosophical Publishing Co., Point Loma, California

       *       *       *       *       *

Isis Unveiled (H.P. Blavatsky). 2 vols., royal 8vo, about 1400 pages; cloth; with portrait
of the author. Point Loma Edition, with a preface. Postpaid                               4.00

Key to Theosophy, The (H.P. Blavatsky). Point Loma Edition, with Glossary and exhaustive Index.
Portraits of H.P. Blavatsky and W.Q. Judge. 8vo, cloth, 400 pages. Postpaid       2.25

     A clear exposition of Theosophy in form of question and
     answer. The book for Students.

Secret Doctrine, The (H.P. Blavatsky). The Synthesis of Science, Religion, and Philosophy.
New Point Loma Edition, 2 vols., royal 8vo, about 1500 pages; cloth. Postpaid             10.00

Voice of the Silence, The (For the daily use of disciples). Translated and annotated by H.P.
Blavatsky. Pocket size, leather                                                           .75

Mysteries of the Heart Doctrine, The. Prepared by Katherine Tingley and her pupils. Square
8vo, cloth                        2.00 Paper                                              
1.00

A Series of Eight Pamphlets, comprising different articles in above, paper, each          
.25

Life at Point Loma, The. Some notes by Katherine Tingley, Leader and Official Head of the Universal
Brotherhood and Theosophical Society                                              .15

     Reprinted from the Los Angeles Post, Dec., 1902.

Katherine Tingley, Humanity's Friend; A Visit to Katherine Tingley (by John Hubert Greusel);
A Study of Râja Yoga at Point Loma (Reprint from the San Francisco Chronicle, January 6th, 1907).

The above three comprised in a pamphlet of 50 pages, published by the Woman's Theosophical
Propaganda League, Point Loma                                                        .15

Light on the Path (M.C.), with comments, and a chapter on Karma; leather .75 Embossed paper
.25

Bhagavad Gîtâ (W.Q. Judge, Amer. Edition) Pocket size, morocco, gilt edges                
1.00

     The pearl of the Scriptures of the East.

Yoga Aphorisms (trans. by William Q. Judge). Pocket size, leather                         
.75

Echoes from the Orient (W.Q. Judge); cloth                        .50 Paper               
.25

     21 valued articles, giving a broad outline of the
     Theosophical doctrines, written for the
     newspaper-reading public.

Epitome of Theosophical Teachings, An (W.Q. Judge), 40 pages      .15

Concentration, Culture of. (W.Q. Judge)                           .15

Errors of Christian Science, Some of the. Criticism by H.P. Blavatsky and William Q. Judge
.15

Hypnotism: Theosophical views on. (40 pp.)                        .15

Nightmare Tales. (H.P. Blavatsky). Newly illustrated by R. Machell. A collection of the weirdest
tales ever written down. They contain paragraphs of the profoundest mystical philosophy. Cloth
.60 Paper                                                             .35

Theosophical Manuals

Elementary Handbooks for Students

Price, each, paper .25; cloth                                     .35

No.  1. Elementary Theosophy.
No.  2. The Seven Principles of Man.
No.  3. Karma.
No.  4. Reincarnation.
No.  5. Man After Death.
No.  6. Kâmaloka and Devachan.
No.  7. Teachers and Their Disciples.
No.  8. The Doctrine of Cycles.
No.  9. Psychism, Ghostology, and the Astral Plane.
No. 10. The Astral Light.
No. 11. Psychometry, Clairvoyance, and Thought-Transference.
No. 12. The Angel and the Demon. (2 vols., 35c. each)
No. 13. The Flame and the Clay.
No. 14. On God and Prayer.
No. 15. Theosophy: the Mother of Religions.
No. 16. From Crypt to Pronaos
    An Essay on the Rise and Fall of Dogma
No. 17. Earth
    Its Parentage; its Rounds and its Races
No. 18. Sons of the Firemist
    A Study of Man

The Path Series

Specially adapted for inquirers in Theosophy.

ALREADY PUBLISHED

No. 1. The Purpose of the Universal Brotherhood and Theosophical Society                  
.05

No. 2. Theosophy Generally Stated (W.Q. Judge)                    .05

No. 3. Mislaid Mysteries (H. Coryn, M.D.)                         .05

No. 4. Theosophy and its Counterfeits                             .05

No. 5. Some Perverted Presentations of Theosophy (H.T. Edge, B.A.)                        
.05

Thirty copies $1.00; 100 copies $3.00

       *       *       *       *       *

Occultism, Studies in (H.P. Blavatsky). Pocket size, 6 vols., cloth; per set              
1.50

Vol. 1. Practical Occultism. Occultism vs. the Occult Arts. The Blessing of Publicity     
.35

Vol. 2. Hypnotism. Black Magic in Science. Signs of the Times                             
.35

Vol. 3. Psychic and Noetic Action                                 .35

Vol. 4. Kosmic Mind. Dual Aspect of Wisdom                        .35

Vol. 5. Esoteric Character of the Gospels                         .35

Vol. 6. Astral Bodies. Constitution of the Inner Man              .35

Lotus Group Literature

Lotus Library for Children

Introduced under the direction of Katherine Tingley

1. The Little Builders and their Voyage to Rangi. (R. N.)         .50

2. The Coming of the King (Machell); cloth, gilt edges            .35

Lotus Song Book. Fifty original songs with copyrighted music      .50

Lotus Song--"The Sun Temple"--with music                        .15

       *       *       *       *       *

Theosophical Periodicals

Century Path. Illustrated Weekly, Edited by Katherine Tingley

     A Magazine devoted to the Brotherhood of Humanity, the
     Promulgation of Theosophy and the Study of Ancient and
     Modern Ethics, Philosophy, Science and Art.

Year $ 4.00                                           Single copy .10

Write for a sample copy to New Century Corporation Point Loma, California, U.S.A.

Râja Yoga Messenger. Illustrated. Monthly. Yearly subscription                            
.50

     Unsectarian publication for Young Folk, conducted by a
     staff of pupils of the Râja Yoga School at Lomaland.

     Address Master Albert G. Spalding, Business Manager
     Râja Yoga Messenger, Point Loma, California.

       *       *       *       *       *
International Theosophical Chronicle. Illustrated.
Monthly. Yearly subscription, postpaid                           1.00

     The Theosophical Book Co., 18 Bartlett's Buildings,
     Holborn Circus, London, E.C.

Theosophia. Illustrated. Monthly. Yearly subscription, postpaid                           
1.50

     Universella Broderskapets Förlag, Box 265 Stockholm 1,
     Sweden.

Universale Bruderschaft. Illustrated. Monthly. Yearly subscription, postpaid              
1.50

     J. Th. Heller, Vestnertorgraben 13, Nürnberg, Germany.

Lotus-Knoppen. Illustrated. Monthly. Yearly subscription, postpaid                        
.75

     A. Goud, Steentilstraat 40, Groningen, Holland.

Subscriptions to the above four Magazines may be secured also through the Theosophical Publishing
Co., Point Loma, California.

       *       *       *       *       *

Neither the editors of the those publications, nor the officers of the Universal Brotherhood
and Theosophical Society, or of any of its departments, receive salaries or other remuneration.

All profits arising from the business of The Theosophical Publishing Co. are devoted to Humanitarian
Work. All who assist in this work are directly helping that cause.

