VOL. I.--NO. 2. PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK. PRICE FOUR CENTS.

II.--A PERILOUS ADVENTURE.

It was still early in the day when Walter left the cottage a second time. His heart was cheerful,
and his movements light and rapid. Instead, however, of taking the road leading to the inn,
he struck off in a zigzag path through the valley toward the Engelhorn, whose jagged and lofty
peaks rose far up into the blue sky. After a short time he reached the large and splendid glacier
that lies between the Engelhorn and Wellborn, cast a hasty glance at the beautiful masses of
ice burnished to prismatic brilliancy by the morning sun, and then turned to the left toward
a steep and narrow path leading to the summit. As the road grew more difficult at every step,
his progress became much slower, and he purposely reserved his strength, knowing well that
it would be severely taxed before he gained the object of his journey. After a toilsome ascent
of half an hour he reached the lofty crag called by the mountaineers the Warder of the Glacier,
and sat down to recover his breath.

It was very necessary for him to take a little rest; for the way he had come, although long
and tiring, was as child's play compared with the difficulties he had yet to overcome. He had
to climb the steep and dizzy heights that towered above his head; and instead of walking along
a narrow foot-path, he would have to clamber over rocks and loose stones, to pass close to
the most dreadful precipices, and across foaming mountain streams, till he reached the height
at which the refreshing green disappeared, with nothing visible but huge masses of brown and
gray rock; where no other sight met the eye but that of mountain tops covered with perpetual
snow and ice--a world dead and deserted, where the familiar voices of nature were almost unknown;
where no bird carolled its love-song from the waving branch; where no sound was to be heard
save the muttered thunder of the avalanche, the roaring of the cataracts which poured forth
from the melting glaciers and made courses for themselves through heaps of rough stones; and
now and again the harsh and discordant scream of a solitary vulture that with outspread wings
circled slowly aloft, piercing into the valleys with its keen eye in search of prey. Into these
wild and lonely regions Walter had to climb in order to reach the lofty crag whereon the vulture--the
far-famed Lämmergeier of the Alps--had reared her eyrie.

But these difficulties had little terror for the cool-headed and brave-hearted mountain youth,
who had from his earliest days been accustomed to roam on dizzy heights where the slightest
false step would have been destruction. He was determined to finish what he had begun; and
gratitude to the noble and generous stranger lent new courage to his soul, and strength and
endurance to his frame.

After a short rest he jumped up again, and renewed the toilsome ascent, following slowly but
steadily the dangerous track that led to the summit of the mountain. His feet often slipped
on the bare and polished rock; sometimes he slid ten or twenty paces backward over loose pebbles,
and anon sank knee-deep in the snow which here and there filled the hollows; but nothing daunted
him or caused him to waver from his purpose. At last he reached a broad sheet of ice with innumerable
crevices and chasms, on the further side of which a narrow ridge like the edge of a knife stretched
above a wild and lonely valley, the base of which yawned two or three thousand feet below.
At the extreme end of this ridge the nest he was in search of was built on a small point of
rock, the sides of which descended precipitously into the depths below.

With his eye fixed on the distant crag, Walter commenced the passage of the ice-field. The
utmost caution being necessary at every step, he felt carefully with his long staff to ascertain
whether the snow that covered the icy mass was fit to bear his weight, or only formed a treacherous
bridge over the numerous ravines which yawned beneath. Bending his way round the large chasms,
he leaped easily over the smaller ones with the aid of his staff; and after avoiding all the
more dangerous spots, he succeeded, by caution and presence of mind, in safely reaching the
further side of the glacier, where the last but most perilous part of his journey was to begin.

As he stood there leaning on his alpenstock, out of breath with the exertion he had undergone,
and surveyed the fearful path which scarcely any human foot had ever dared to tread; as he
cast a glance at the dizzy precipices which yawned on each side of the ridge, which was itself
in many places scarcely a foot in breadth; as he considered the inevitable destruction that
would follow a single false step, he began to feel his courage fail, and lost for a moment
the confidence and contempt of danger which had filled his soul an hour or two before, and
sustained him during his perilous journey. "What if I should never return, nor see my father
again?" said he to himself, as he drew back from the road which seemed to threaten him with
destruction. "Is it not too great a risk to run?"

But these fears only lasted a few moments. He called to mind the generosity of the stranger,
and pictured to himself the delight with which he would receive him if he returned laden with
such valuable booty; and his determination was renewed on the spot.

"I should be ashamed ever to look him in the face again," said he to himself; "and what would
father say if he were to see that I was afraid of climbing a few rocks? No, no. I must and
will have the birds; so here goes!"

Laying his alpenstock on the ground, he took off the thick jacket and heavy shoes which would
but hinder his progress, and with only his shirt and trousers on, an axe in his belt, and the
game bag hung over his shoulder, he started forward with all his former courage and energy,
to complete the dangerous undertaking.

His progress was not difficult at first. The ridge along which he had to go was broad enough
to begin with, although very rough and wild here and there. But after he had gone a little
way, it got so narrow that he found it difficult to secure a foot-hold. At this point the ridge
became so attenuated that the youth saw at the first glance that it was impossible to proceed
in an upright position; he therefore crept along on all fours, or sat astride the ridge and
urged himself on with his hands and feet.

Thus with extreme difficulty he pursued his perilous way toward the end of the ridge on which
he knew the eyrie was built. But presently he saw the nest, and could hear the young birds
piping, which gave him new strength and determination. At this juncture a loud scream overhead
caused him to look up, and he was alarmed to see the female vulture wheeling round the nest
with a young goat in her talons. With this new danger menacing him, the young cragsman lay
flat down on the rock, and remained motionless, while he offered up an earnest prayer to Heaven
that the bird might not discover him. He knew the peril which threatened him, for he had often
heard of the fury with which the vulture attacks any one who attempts to rob its nest. He had
heard of many cragsmen who had lost their lives in that way, and his own position was by no
means the most favorable to defend himself against attack. His short and earnest prayer was
not in vain. The young birds screeched louder and louder as they saw the prey in their mother's
talons; and after the vulture had further tempted their appetite by one or two more majestic
sweeps, she dropped the dainty morsel into the nest, where it was at once seized. After assisting
her young ones to make a good beginning of their meal, the mother-bird unfolded her powerful
wings, and glided into the valley beneath with the speed of an arrow.

"Heaven be thanked, I am saved!" murmured Walter, as he rose from his uncomfortable position
and wiped the perspiration from his forehead. "I must lose no time now, or perhaps one or both
the old birds may return."

He pressed on with redoubled energy till an event occurred, unimportant in itself, but which
caused him some uneasiness, and reminded him of the need of caution. The rock in places was
fragile and split up by the weather, and with a slight touch of his foot he loosened an immense
fragment of stone, which went rolling down the side of the mountain till it reached a projecting
ledge hundreds of feet below. A pang of terror shot through the boy's heart, and his face blanched,
as he watched the stone thundering over the obstacles in its way until it disappeared in a
cloud of dust. It seemed as if the whole mountain trembled beneath him; a mist bleared his
eyes; and as the blood rushed to his head, a deadly giddiness threatened to overpower him.
He felt an impulse to throw himself over, which he could scarcely resist; and it was only by
falling on his face and shutting his eyes that he recovered his presence of mind. After thus
lying for several minutes, with beating heart and quaking limbs, until by degrees he became
more at ease, he ventured to look around him once more, and fixed his eyes on the nest, which
was now only about fifty paces farther on.

After waiting a few minutes longer, to be sure that his courage had returned, he made a fresh
start, determining not to allow anything to alarm him again; and soon reached the end of the
ridge, and viewed the nest with the young vultures before him. But here still another difficulty
presented itself. The rock, which up to this point had been quite level, rose at the extreme
end about eight feet above the ridge, and formed a sort of projecting platform, which the parent
birds, with their wonderful sagacity, had deemed the most suitable spot on which to take up
their abode. As he measured the height with his eye, Walter began to fear that after all he
would be obliged to return without accomplishing his object, for the rock was so smooth as
scarcely to afford the least hold to either his hands or feet. Fortunately, however, he recollected
his little axe, which might do him good service if the stone, as he hoped, proved soft. Raising
himself cautiously, he drew the axe from his belt, and while supporting himself with the left
hand, dealt the rock several vigorous blows with the right, and to his great delight succeeded
in making notches, by which, if he only went carefully to work, he could accomplish his object.

With renewed courage he clambered up the almost perpendicular rock, and his curly hair and
sunburned face soon appeared above the edge of the nest. The next moment he leaned over, seized
the young birds in spite of their angry cries, transferred them one after the other to his
bag, and throwing it across his shoulder, began to return on the dangerous road by which he
had come. In common, however, with the experience of all who have ascended precipitous heights,
he soon found that going down was much more difficult than had been the coming up; but ignoring
the fact that he had beneath him a precipice two thousand feet deep, he devoted all his attention
to the work immediately before him, and carefully descended the rocky wall step by step, till
he reached the level ridge once more. He then turned slowly round, slung his bag in front of
him, and leaning back against the wall, surveyed the giddy road which he must traverse to reach
the glacier and the steep declivities of the Engelhorn, and thereafter his native valley.

It was a difficult and dangerous road; but the young mountaineer's heart was now full of joy
and confidence, for he had surmounted the greatest difficulty, and the prize of his bold and
daring venture was in his possession. He uttered an exclamation of triumph; then, thanking
God for the help he had received, he implored the Divine protection on his homeward journey.
The sharp ridge made it necessary for him, as before, to work his way forward astride on the
rock for some time; but he soon got within sight of a part where it would be possible to go
on his hands and knees, and was just about to change his straddling position for the more comfortable
one of crawling, when the constant shrieking of the young vultures in his bag was answered
by a piercing cry from above, followed the next moment by the loud rushing of powerful wings
close to his ear. The boy uttered an exclamation of horror, and clung with all his might to
the rock to prevent himself from falling.

In an instant he perceived the fearful danger that threatened him. One, or perhaps both the
old birds had been attracted by the cries of the young ones, and were about to avenge themselves
on the robber of their nest. Walter guessed that a hard fight would probably take place, and
his first impulse was to throw the bag with the young birds into the valley beneath, and then
try to make his escape as well as he might. But he soon found that this plan was more readily
formed than it could be executed; for before he could make a single movement, he felt the blast
of the wings just above his head, while the screaming of the enraged bird so confused his senses
that he had great difficulty to avoid being hurled from his narrow resting-place into the ravine
below. This sudden danger, although it alarmed him for the moment, awoke the next moment the
courage and determination of the brave-hearted boy. It was a case of life or death, and it
was vain to think of retiring from the contest. So, snatching his axe from his belt, he aimed
a powerful blow at the old vulture as she swept down upon him for the third time. He succeeded
beyond his expectation, for the blow, made almost at random, struck the wing of the bird, which,
after vainly attempting to continue the struggle, fell helplessly into the abyss.

Relieved of his antagonist, Walter felt completely exhausted, and was obliged to lie down at
full length for several minutes until he regained his breath and self-possession. He then made
the best of his way along till he reached the steep road leading to the glacier, and had got
about half way down, when just in the most dangerous part he heard the ominous scream again,
and saw with a shrinking horror that the male vulture, attracted, like its mate, by the continued
cries of the young birds, had discovered him. In a fury of rage the angry bird darted downward,
and sweeping past with outstretched talons, tried to hurl him headlong from the crag.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

     My uncle has brought me a little alligator from Florida, and mamma
     says I may keep it if I can take care of it. It is in a big tin pan
     of water now, and every day it jumps out and hides in some corner.
     I have given it crumbs of bread and cake, but it does not eat them.
     Please tell me how I can keep it, and what it will eat.

  WILLIE J. H.

A small aquarium would serve as a comfortable home for your alligator, only you must provide
a board on to which he can crawl to dry himself, for he does not like to spend all his time
in the water. To feed him, take very tiny pieces of raw beef, and hold them toward him. If
he is lively, he will dart after them with wide-open mouth. If you are afraid he will nip your
finger--if he is very young he can not bite you--put the bits of meat on the end of a wire.
If you do not wish to have a hunt for him every morning, you must cover your aquarium with
coarse wire netting, for young alligators are always eager to escape from confinement.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Are you going to give a work-box department for little girls? I and
     five others are going to have a fair to raise money to make a
     Christmas-tree for a little sick school-mate whose mother is very
     poor, and we want to make everything for the fair ourselves. One of
     us has a lot of pretty cards with pressed sea-weed she arranged
     last summer, and we thought they would be prettier if we could make
     them into little books or baskets. Could you tell us how to do it?

  LULU W.

We shall not give a special department to fancy-work, but we shall now and then have short
papers, like the one on page 14, telling how to make pretty things. Meanwhile perhaps some
of our young correspondents will give you some new suggestions for fancy articles for your
fair, for the success of which you have our best wishes.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIFE ON THE "ST. MARY'S."

By a Young Tar.

[The following sprightly account of life on the school-ship St. Mary's was written for HARPER'S
YOUNG PEOPLE by one of the recent graduates. We give the portraits of three of the four boys
who recently graduated with the highest honors. That of the fourth, Master J. B. Stone, we
were unable to obtain.]

The New York Nautical School on board the ship St. Mary's must not be confounded with the school-ship
Mercury, which formerly existed at this port; the latter was a floating reformatory, while
the former was established for the purpose of training American boys to officer and man our
merchant ships. The course of instruction embraces a short review of arithmetic, grammar, and
geography, a thorough drill in marline-spikework, handling sails, boats, oars, etc.

When the St. Mary's leaves her dock for the annual cruise, the school routine is changed, the
first-class boys having lessons in navigation, steering, heaving the log and lead, passing
earings, etc., while the second class are aloft "learning gear," i. e., following up the different
ropes which form a ship's machinery, and fixing in the mind their lead and use, and a sure
method of finding them in the darkest night. This last is absolutely necessary, for if a squall
should strike the ship, and the order, "Royal clew-lines, flying-jib down-haul--Smith, let
go that royal-sheet" were given, it would be very mortifying, as well as dangerous, if he had
to answer, "I don't know where it is, Sir."

The boys, assisted by a few able sea-men, form the crew of the ship. They stand watch, make,
reef, and take in sail; do all the dirty work, tarring down, painting, scraping, and slushing.
They stand watch and watch, keep at night a look-out on the cat-heads, gangways, quarters,
and halliards, where they are required to "sing out" their stations every half hour, to be
sure that they are awake. Many are the instances of boys falling asleep, and being awakened
by a lurch of the ship, singing out at the wrong time, and once a sleepy look-out reported
"Light, ho!" and to the officer's "Where away?" was obliged to answer, "It's the moon, Sir!"

