2. a. Arms of Philip II of Spain. Coloured

3. b. Last page of Sarmiento's introductory Letter
    to Philip II, with his autograph

4. c. Arms of Philip II. fol. 1

5. d. Title of the Sarmiento MS. fol. 2

6. e. Arms of Don Francisco de Toledo, Viceroy of
    Peru, 1569--1581. fol. 132

7. f. Signatures of the attesting witnesses, 1572. fol. 138

8. Portrait of the Viceroy, Don Francisco de Toledo, at Lima.
     From a sketch by Sir Clements Markham in 1853

9. Group of Incas, in ceremonial dresses, from figures in the
     pictures in the Church of Santa Ana, Cuzco, A.D. 1570.
     From a sketch by Sir Clements Markham in 1853

10. Portraits of the Incas. From the Rev. C.M.
    Cracherode's copy in the British Museum

11. Capture of Atahualpa, and Siege of Cuzco. From the
      Title-page of the Sixth Decade of Antonio de Herrera

12. Map of Vilca-Pampa. 1907. By Graham Mackay, R.G.S

Plates 2--7 have been reproduced from the negatives, kindly lent for the purpose by Professor
Dr Richard Pietschmann, Director of the Göttingen University Library.

INTRODUCTION.

The publication of the text of the Sarmiento manuscript in the Library of Göttingen University,
has enabled the Council to present the members of the Hakluyt Society with the most authentic
narrative of events connected with the history of the Incas of Peru.

The history of this manuscript, and of the documents which accompanied it, is very interesting.
The Viceroy, Don Francisco de Toledo, who governed Peru from 1569 to 1581, caused them to be
prepared for the information of Philip II. Four cloths were sent to the King from Cuzco, and
a history of the Incas written by Captain Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa. On three cloths were figures
of the Incas with their wives, on medallions, with their Ayllus and a genealogical tree. Historical
events in each reign were depicted on the borders. The fable of Tampu-tocco was shown on the
first cloth, and also the fables touching the creations of Viracocha, which formed the foundation
for the whole history. On the fourth cloth there was a map of Peru, the compass lines for the
positions of towns being drawn by Sarmiento.

The Viceroy also caused reports to be made to him, to prove that the Incas were usurpers. There
were thirteen reports from Cuzco, Guamanga, Xauxa, Yucay, and other places, forming a folio
of 213 leaves, preserved in the Archivo de Indias[1]. At Cuzco all the Inca descendants were
called upon to give evidence respecting the history of Peru under their ancestors. They all
swore that they would give truthful testimony. The compilation of the history was then entrusted
to Captain Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa, the cosmographer of Peru. When it was completed the book
was read to the Inca witnesses, chapter by chapter, in their own language. They discussed each
chapter, and suggested some corrections and alterations which were adopted. It was then submitted
to the Viceroy, who caused the documents to be attested by the principal Spaniards settled
at Cuzco, who had been present at the conquest, or had taken a leading part in the subsequent
administration. These were Dr Loarte, the licentiate Polo de Ondegardo[2], Alonso de Mena[3],
Mancio Serra de Leguisano[4], Pero Alonso Carrasco, and Juan de Pancorvo[5], in whose house
the Viceroy resided while he was at Cuzco. Mancio Serra de Leguisano married Beatriz Ñusta,
an Inca princess, daughter of Huayna Ccapac. The Viceroy then made some final interpolations
to vilify the Incas, which would not have been approved by some of those who had attested,
certainly not by Polo de Ondegardo or Leguisano.

[Note 1: Printed in the same volume with Montesinos, and edited by Jimenes de la Espada, Informaciones
acerca del señorio y gobierno de los Ingas hechas por mandado de Don Francisco de Toledo, 1570--72.]

[Note 2: The accomplished lawyer, author, and statesman.]

[Note 3: One of the first conquerors. His house at Cuzco was in the square of our Lady, near
that of Garcilasso de la Vega.]

[Note 4: A generous defender of the cause of the Indians.]

[Note 5: One of the first conquerors. He occupied a house near the square, with his friend
and comrade Alonso de Marchena.]

Sarmiento mentions in his history of the Incas that it was intended to be the Second Part of
his work. There were to be three Parts. The First, on the geography of Peru, was not sent because
it was not finished. The Third Part was to have been a narrative of the conquest.

The four cloths, and the other documents, were taken to Spain, for presentation to the King,
by a servant of the Viceroy named Geronimo Pacheco, with a covering letter dated at Yucay on
March 1st, 1572.

Of all these precious documents the most important was the history of the Incas by Sarmiento,
and it has fortunately been preserved. The King's copy found its way into the famous library
of Abraham Gronovius, which was sold in 1785, and thence into the library of the University
of Göttingen, where it remained, unprinted and unedited, for 120 years. But in August, 1906,
the learned librarian, Dr Richard Pietschmann published the text at Berlin, very carefully
edited and annotated with a valuable introduction. The Council of the Hakluyt Society is thus
enabled to present an English translation to its members very soon after the first publication
of the text. It is a complement of the other writings of the great navigator, which were translated
and edited for the Hakluyt Society in 1895.

The manuscript consists of eight leaves of introduction and 138 of text. The dedicatory letter
to the King is signed by Sarmiento on March 4th, 1572. The binding was of red silk, under which
there is another binding of green leather. The first page is occupied by a coloured shield
of the royal arms, with a signature el Capitã Sarmi de Gãboa. On the second page is the title,
surrounded by an ornamental border. The manuscript is in a very clear hand, and at the end
are the arms of Toledo (chequy azure and argent) with the date Cuzco, 29 Feb., 1572. There
is also the signature of the Secretary, Alvaro Ruiz de Navamuel[6].

[Note 6: Alvaro Ruiz and his brother Captain Francisco Ruiz were the sons of Francisco Santiago
Rodriguez de los Rios by Inez de Navamuel. Both used their mother's name of Navamuel as their
surname; and both were born at Aquilar del Campo. Alonso Ruiz de Navamuel was Secretary to
the governments of five successive Viceroys. He wrote a Relacion de las cosas mas notables
que hiza en el Peru, siendo Virev Don Francisco de Toledo, 20 Dec. 1578. He died in the year
1613. The descendants of his son Juan de los Rios formed the mayorazgos of Rios and Cavallero.

By his wife Angela Ortiz de Arbildo y Berriz, a Biscayan, he had a daughter Inez married to
her cousin Geronimo Aliaga, a son of the Secretary's brother Captain Francisco Ruiz de Navamuel,
the encomendero of Caracoto in the Collao, by Juana, daughter of Captain Geronimo de Aliaga.
His marriage, at which the Viceroy Toledo was present, took place on November 23rd, 1578. From
the marriage of the younger Geronimo de Aliaga with Inez Navamuel, descend the Aliagas, Counts
of Luringancho in Peru.]

The history of the Incas by Sarmiento is, without any doubt, the most authentic and reliable
that has yet appeared. For it was compiled from the carefully attested evidence of the Incas
themselves, taken under official sanction. Each sovereign Inca formed an ayllu or "gens" of
his descendants, who preserved the memory of his deeds in quipus, songs, and traditions handed
down and learnt by heart. There were many descendants of each of these ayllus living near Cuzco
in 1572, and the leading members were examined on oath; so that Sarmiento had opportunities
of obtaining accurate information which no other writer possessed. For the correct versions
of the early traditions, and for historical facts and the chronological order of events, Sarmiento
is the best authority.

But no one can supersede the honest and impartial old soldier, Pedro de Cieza de Leon, as regards
the charm of his style and the confidence to be placed in his opinions; nor the Inca Garcilasso
de la Vega as regards his reminiscences and his fascinating love for his people. Molina and
Yamqui Pachacuti give much fuller details respecting the ceremonial festivals and religious
beliefs. Polo de Ondegardo and Santillana supply much fuller and more reliable information
respecting the laws and administration of the Incas. It is in the historical narrative and
the correct order of events that Sarmiento, owing to his exceptional means of collecting accurate
information, excels all other writers.

There is one serious blemish. Sarmiento's book was written, not only or mainly to supply interesting
information, but with an object. Bishop Las Casas had made Europe ring with the cruelties of
the Spaniards in the Indies, and with the injustice and iniquity of their conquests. Don Francisco
de Toledo used this narrative for the purpose of making a feeble reply to the good bishop.
Under his instructions Sarmiento stated the Viceroy's argument, which was that the King of
Spain was the rightful sovereign of Peru because the Incas had usurped their power by conquest
and had been guilty of acts of cruelty. Hence the constant repetition of such phrases as "cruel
tyranny" and "usurping tyrant"; and the numerous interpolations of the Viceroy himself are
so obvious that I have put them in italics within brackets. He goes back as far as the first
Inca to make out the usurpation, and he is always harping on illegitimacy. If we go back as
far as Sancho IV the title of Philip II to Spain was voided by the grossest usurpation, while
we need only go back to Henry II to see how Philip's title was vitiated by illegitimacy. As
for cruelty, it would be a strange plea from the sovereign by whose orders the Netherlands
were devastated, the Moors of Granada almost annihilated, and under whose rule the Inquisition
was in full swing.

It is right to say that Philip never seems to have endorsed the argument of his Viceroy, while
his father prohibited the circulation of a book by Dr Sepulveda which contained a similar argument;
nor was the work of Sarmiento published.

Barring this blemish, the history of the Incas, written by order of the Viceroy Toledo, is
a most valuable addition to the authorities who have given us authentic accounts of Andean
civilization; for we may have every confidence in the care and accuracy of Sarmiento as regards
his collection and statement of historical facts, provided that we always keep in mind the
bias, and the orders he was under, to seek support for the Viceroy's untenable argument.

I have given all I have been able to find respecting the life of Sarmiento in the introduction
to my edition of the voyages of that celebrated navigator.

But the administration of the Viceroy Don Francisco de Toledo, from 1569 to 1581, forms a landmark
in the history of Peru, and seems to call for some notice in this place. He found the country
in an unsettled state, with the administrative system entirely out of gear. Though no longer
young he entered upon the gigantic task of establishing an orderly government, and resolved
to visit personally every part of the vast territory under his rule. This stupendous undertaking
occupied him for five years. He was accompanied by ecclesiastics, by men well versed in the
language of the Incas and in their administrative policy, and by his secretary and aide-de-camp.
These were the Bishop of Popayan, Augustin de la Coruña, the Augustine friars Juan Vivero and
Francisco del Corral, the Jesuit and well-known author, Joseph de Acosta, the Inquisitor Pedro
Ordoñez Flores, his brother, the Viceroy's chaplain and confessor, the learned lawyer Juan
Matienzo, whose work is frequently quoted by Solorzano[7], the licentiate Polo de Ondegardo,
who had been some years in the country and had acquired an intimate knowledge of the laws of
the Incas, the secretary Alvaro Ruiz de Navamuel, and as aide-de-camp his young nephew, Geronimo
de Figueroa, son of his brother Juan, the Ambassador at Rome[8].

[Note 7: In his Politica Indiana. There are two manuscripts of Juan Matienzo de Peralta at
the British Museum, Govierno del Peru and Relacion del libro intitulado Govierno del Peru,
apparently one work in two parts. Add. MSS. 5469, in Gayangos Catalogue, vol. II. p. 470.]

[Note 8: Some sons took the father's surname, others that of the mother. The Viceroy had the
name of his father, Francisco Alvarez de Toledo, the third Count of Oropesa, while his brother
Juan had the surname of Figueroa, being that of his mother.]

Toledo was endowed with indefatigable zeal for the public service, great energy, and extraordinary
powers of application. He took the opinions of others, weighed them carefully, and considered
long before he adopted any course. But he was narrow-minded and obstinate, and when he had
once determined on a measure nothing could alter him. His ability is undoubted, and his appointment,
at this particular juncture, is a proof of Philip's sagacity.

The Viceroy's intercourse with Polo de Ondegardo informed him respecting the administrative
system of the Incas, so admirably adapted to the genius of the people, and he had the wisdom
to see that there was much to learn from it. His policy was to collect the people, who, to
a great extent, were scattered over the country and hiding from the Spaniards, in villages
placed near the centres of their cultivated or pasture lands. He fixed the numbers in each
village at 400 to 500, with a priest and Alcalde. He also ordered the boundaries of all the
parishes to be settled. Spanish Corregidors were to take the places of the Tucuyricoc or governors
of Inca times, and each village had an elected Alcalde approved by the Corregidor. Under him
there were to be two overseers, a Pichca pachaca over 500, and a Pachaca as assistant. Another
important measure was the settlement of the tribute. The name "tribute" was unfortunate. The
system was that of the Incas, and the same which prevailed throughout the east. The government
was the landlord, and the so-called "tribute" was rent. The Incas took two-thirds for the state
and for religion, and set apart one-third for the cultivators. Toledo did much the same, assessing,
according to the nature of the soil, the crops, and other local circumstances. For the formation
of villages and the assessment of the tribute he promulgated a whole code of ordinances, many
of them intended to prevent local oppression in various forms.

The Viceroy next took up the questions of the position of yana-cunas or domestic servants,
and of forced service. Both these institutions existed in Incarial times. All that was needed
were moderate laws for the protection of servants and conscripts, and the enforcement of such
laws. Toledo allowed a seventh of the adult male population in each village to be made liable
for service in mines or factories, fixed the distance they could be taken from their homes,
and made rules for their proper treatment. It is true that the mita, as it was called, was
afterwards an instrument of cruel oppression, that rules were disregarded, and that it depopulated
the country. But this was not the fault of Toledo.

The Viceroy gave much attention to the mining industry, promoted the introduction of the use
of mercury in the extraction of silver, and founded the town of Huancavelica near the quick-silver
mine. His personality pervaded every department of the state, and his tasas or ordinances fill
a large volume. He was a prolific legislator and a great statesman.

His worst mistake was the policy he adopted with regard to the family of the Incas. He desired
to establish the position of the King of Spain without a rival. He, therefore, sought to malign
the preceding dynasty, persecuted the descendants of the Incas, and committed one act of cruel
injustice.

When Atahualpa put his half-brother Huascar, the last reigning Inca, to death, there remained
three surviving sons of their father the great Inca Huayna Ccapac, named Manco, Paullu, and
Titu Atauchi, and several daughters. After his occupation of Cuzco, Pizarro acknowledged Manco
Inca as the legitimate successor of his brother Huascar, and he was publicly crowned, receiving
all the insignia on March 24th, 1534. He escaped from the Spaniards and besieged them in Cuzco
at the head of a large army. Forced to raise the siege he established his head-quarters at
Ollantay-tampu, where he repulsed an attack led by Hernando Pizarro. He was, however, defeated
by Orgoñiez, the lieutenant of Almagro, and took refuge in the mountainous province of Vilcapampa
on the left bank of the Vilcamayu. From thence he made constant attacks on the Spaniards, maintaining
his independence in this small remnant of his dominions. Some of the partisans of Almagro took
refuge with him, and he was accidentally killed by one of them in 1544, after a not inglorious
reign of ten years.

He left two legitimate sons, named Sayri Tupac and Tupac Amaru, by his wife and niece the Princess
Ataria Cusi Huarcay, daughter of his ill-fated brother Huascar. This marriage was legalized
by a bull of Pope Paul III in the time of the Viceroy Marquis of Cañete, 1555--1561. He had
also an illegitimate son named Cusi Titu Yupanqui, and a daughter named Maria Tupac Usca, married
to Don Pedro Ortiz de Orue, one of the first conquerors[9].

[Note 9: Diego Ortiz de Orue was born in the village of Getafe, near Madrid. He went out to
Peru in 1559, and at once began to study the Quichua language. He was encomendero of Maras,
a village overlooking the valley of Yucay. By the Inca princess he had a daughter named Catalina
married to Don Luis Justiniani of Seville, descended from the Genoese family. Their son Luis
was the grandfather of Dr Justo Pastor Justiniani who married Manuela Cataño, descended from
Tupac Inca Yupanqui. Their son Don Pablo Justiniani was Cura of Laris until his death in 1858,
and was a great depository of Inca lore. He had a very early copy of the Inca drama of Ollanta.]

Sayri Tupac succeeded as fourteenth Inca of Peru. On the arrival of the Marquis of Cañete as
Viceroy in 1555, he caused overtures to be made to Sayri Tupac through his aunts, who were
living at Cuzco with their Spanish husbands, Juan Sierra de Leguisano and Diego Hernandez.
It was finally arranged that the Inca should receive 17000 castellanos of rent and the valley
of Yucay. On October 7th, 1557, Sayri Tupac left Vilcapampa with 300 followers, reaching Andahuaylas
on November 5th. He entered Lima on January 6th, 1558, was cordially greeted by the Viceroy
and received investiture, assuming the names of Manco Ccapac Pachacuti Yupanqui. He went to
live in the lovely vale of Yucay. He had been baptized with the name of Diego, but he did not
long survive, dying at Yucay in 1560. His daughter Clara Beatriz married Don Martin Garcia
Loyola. Their daughter Lorenza was created Marchioness of Oropesa and Yucay, with remainder
to descendants of her great uncle Tupac Amaru. She was the wife of Juan Henriquez de Borja,
grandson of the Duke of Gandia.

On the death of Sayri Tupac, his illegitimate brother, Cusi Titu Yupanqui assumed sovereignty,
owing to the youth of the legitimate brother Tupac Amaru, both remaining in Vilcapampa.

Paullu Tupac Yupanqui, the next brother of Manco Inca, was baptized with the name of Cristóval.
He accompanied Almagro in his expedition to Chile, and was with young Almagro at the battle
of Chupas. Eventually he was allowed to fix his residence on the Colcampata of Cuzco, at the
foot of the fortress, and by the side of the church of San Cristóval. From the terrace of the
Colcampata there is a glorious view with the snowy peak of Vilcañota in the far distance. Paullu
died in May, 1549, and was succeeded on the Colcampata by his son Carlos Inca. He had two other
sons named Felipe and Bartolomé. From the latter was descended the late Archdeacon of Cuzco,
Dr Justo Salmaraura Inca.

Titu Atauchi, the youngest son of Huayna Ccapac, had a son Alonso.

The princesses, daughters of Huayna Ccapac and sisters of Manco and Paullu, were Beatriz Ñusta,
married first to Martin de Mustincia, and secondly to Diego Hernandez of Talavera; Leonor Ñusta,
the wife of Juan de Balsa, who was killed at the battle of Chupas on the side of young Almagro,
secondly of Francisco de Villacastin: Francisca Ñusta, niece of Huayna Ccapac, married to Juan
de Collantes, and was great-grandmother of Bishop Piedrahita, the historian of Nueva Granada:
another Beatriz Ñusta married Mancio Sierra de Leguisano, the generous defender of the natives;
and Inez Ñusta married first Francisco Pizarro and had a daughter Francisca, who has descendants,
and secondly to Francisco Ampuero. Angelina, daughter of Atahualpa, was married to Juan de
Betanzos, the author and Quichua scholar. The brother of Huayna Ccapac, named Hualpa Tupac
Yupanqui, had a daughter, Isabel Ñusta Yupanqui, the wife of Garcilasso de la Vega, and mother
of the Inca Garcilasso de la Vega[10], the historian, author of the Comentarios Reales.

[Note 10: The Inca Garcilasso was a third cousin of the regicide Viceroy Toledo. Their great
grandfathers were brothers.]

This then was the position of the Inca family when the Viceroy, Francisco de Toledo, came to
Cuzco in 1571. Cusi Titu Yupanqui and Tupac Amaru, sons of the Inca Manco were in the mountains
of Vilcapampa, the former maintaining his independence. Carlos Inca, son of Paullu, was baptized,
and living on the Colcampata at Cuzco with his wife Maria de Esquivel. Seven Inca princesses
had married Spaniards, most of them living at Cuzco with their husbands and children.

The events, connected with the Inca family, which followed on the arrival of the Viceroy Toledo
at Cuzco, will be found fully described in this volume. It need only be stated here that the
inexorable tyrant, having got the innocent young prince Tupac Amaru into his power, resolved
to put him to death. The native population was overwhelmed with grief. The Spaniards were horrified.
They entreated that the lad might be sent to Spain to be judged by the King. The heads of religious
orders and other ecclesiastics went down on their knees. Nothing could move the obstinate narrow-minded
Viceroy. The deed was done.

When too late Toledo seems to have had some misgivings. The judicial murder took place in December,
1571. The history of the Incas was finished in March, 1572. Yet there is no mention of the
death of Tupac Amaru. For all that appears he might have been still in Vilcapampa. Nevertheless
the tidings reached Philip II, and the Viceroy's conduct was not approved.

There was astonishing audacity on the part of Toledo, in basing arguments on the alleged cruelty
and tyranny of the Incas, when the man was actually red-handed with the blood of an innocent
youth, and engaged in the tyrannical persecution of his relations and the hideous torture of
his followers. His arguments made no impression on the mind of Philip II. The King even showed
some favour to the children of Tupac Amaru by putting them in the succession to the Marquisate
of Oropesa. In the Inca pedigrees Toledo is called "el execrable regicidio." When he presented
himself on his return from Peru the King angrily exclaimed: "Go away to your house; for I sent
you to serve kings; and you went to kill kings[11]."

[Note 11: "Idos a vuestra casa, que yo os envie a servir reyes; y vos fuiste a matar reyes."]

All his faithful services as a legislator and a statesman could not atone for this cruel judicial
murder in the eyes of his sovereign. He went back to his house a disgraced and broken-hearted
man, and died soon afterwards.

The history of the Incas by Sarmiento is followed, in this volume, by a narrative of the execution
of Tupac Amaru and of the events leading to it, by an eye-witness, the Captain Baltasar de
Ocampo. It has been translated from a manuscript in the British Museum.

The narrative of Ocampo, written many years after the event, is addressed to the Viceroy Marquis
of Montes Claros. Its main object was to give an account of the province of Vilcapampa, and
to obtain some favours for the Spanish settlers there.

Vilcapampa is a region of very special historical and geographical interest, and it is one
of which very little is known. It is a mountainous tract of country, containing the lofty range
of Vilcacunca and several fertile valleys, between the rivers Apurimac and Vilcamayu, to the
north of Cuzco. The mountains rise abruptly from the valley of the Vilcamayu below Ollantay-tampu,
where the bridge of Chuqui-chaca opened upon paths leading up into a land of enchantment. No
more lovely mountain scenery can be found on this earth. When Manco Inca escaped from the Spaniards
he took refuge in Vilcapampa, and established his court and government there. The Sun temple,
the convent of virgins, and the other institutions of the Incas at Cuzco, were transferred
to this mountain fastness. Even handsome edifices were erected. Here the Incas continued to
maintain their independence for 35 years.

Ocampo opens his story with a very interesting account of the baptism of Melchior Carlos, son
of Carlos Inca, who had become a Christian, and lived in the palace on the Colcampata at Cuzco.
He then describes the events which culminated in the capture, of the Inca Tupac Amaru, and
gives a pathetic and touching account of the judicial murder of that ill-fated young prince.
Ocampo was an actor in these events and an eye-witness. The rest of his narrative consists
of reminiscences of occurrences in Vilcapampa after it was occupied by the Spaniards. He owned
property there, and was a settler holding official posts. He tells of the wealth and munificence
of a neighbour. He gives the history of an expedition into the forests to the northward, which
will form material for the history of these expeditions when it is written. He tells the story
of an insurrection among the negro labourers, and complains of the spiritual destitution of
his adopted land. He finally returns to Cuzco and gives an account of a very magnificent pageant
and tilting match. But this story should have preceded the mournful narrative of the fate of
Tupac Amaru; for the event took place at the time of the baptism of Melchior Carlos, and before
the Viceroy Toledo became a regicide. Ocampo's story is that of an honest old soldier, inclined
to be garrulous, but an eye-witness of some most interesting events in the history of Peru.

I think it is an appropriate sequel to the history by Sarmiento, because it supplies material
for judging whether the usurpation and tyranny were on the side of the Incas or of their accuser.

THE

SECOND PART

OF THE

GENERAL HISTORY

CALLED

"INDICA"

WHICH WAS COMPOSED

BY

THE CAPTAIN PEDRO SARMIENTO DE GAMBOA

BY ORDER OF

THE MOST EXCELLENT LORD DON FRANCISCO DE TOLEDO VICEROY GOVERNOR AND CAPTAIN-GENERAL OF THE
KINGDOMS OF PERU AND MAYOR-DOMO OF THE ROYAL HOUSEHOLD OF CASTILLE

1572

TO HIS SACRED CÆSARIAN MAJESTY THE KING, DON FELIPE, OUR LORD.

Among the excellencies, O sovereign and catholic Philip, that are the glorious decorations
of princes, placing them on the highest pinnacle of estimation, are, according to the father
of Latin eloquence, generosity, kindness, and liberality. And as the Roman Consuls held this
to be the principal praise of their glory, they had this title curiously sculptured in marble
on the Quirinal and in the forum of Trajan---"Most powerful gift in a Prince is liberality[12]."
For this kings who desired much to be held dear by their own people and to be feared by strangers,
were incited to acquire the name of liberal. Hence that royal sentence became immortal "It
is right for kings to give." As this was a quality much valued among the Greeks, the wise Ulysses,
conversing with Antinous[13], King of the Phæacians, said---"You are something like a king,
for you know how to give, better than others." Hence it is certain that liberality is a good
and necessary quality of kings.

[Note 12: "Primum signum nobilitatis est liberalitas."]

[Note 13: Alcinous.]

I do not pretend on this ground, most liberal monarch, to insinuate to your Majesty the most
open frankness, for it would be very culpable on my part to venture to suggest a thing which,
to your Majesty, is so natural that you would be unable to live without it. Nor will it happen
to so high minded and liberal a lord and king, what befell the Emperor Titus who, remembering
once, during supper time, that he had allowed one day to pass without doing some good, gave
utterance to this laudable animadversion of himself. "O friends! I have lost a day[14]." For
not only does your Majesty not miss a day, but not even an hour, without obliging all kinds
of people with benefits and most gracious liberality.

[Note 14: "Amici! diem perdidi." Suetonius.]

But what I desire to say is that for a king who complies so well with the obligation of liberality,
and who gives so much, it is necessary that he should possess much; for nothing is so suitable
for a prince as possessions and riches for his gifts and liberalities, as Tully says, as well
as to acquire glory. For it is certain, as we read in Sallust that "in a vast empire there
is great glory[15]"; and in how much it is greater, in so much it treats of great things. Hence
the glory of a king consists in his possessing many vassals, and the abatement of his glory
is caused by the diminution of the number of his subjects.

[Note 15: Proem of Catiline.]

Of this glory, most Christian king, God Almighty gives you so large a share in this life that
all the enemies of the holy catholic church of Christ our Lord tremble at your exalted name;
whence you most justly deserve to be named the strength of the church. As the treasure which
God granted that your ancestors should spend, with such holy magnanimity, on worthy and holy
deeds, in the extirpation of heretics, in driving the accursed Saracens out of Spain, in building
churches, hospitals and monasteries, and in an infinite number of other works of charity and
justice, with the zeal of zealous fathers of their country, not only entitled them to the most
holy title of catholics, but the most merciful and almighty God, whom they served with all
their hearts, saw fit to commence repayment with temporal goods, in the present age. It is
certain that "He who grants celestial rewards does not take away temporal blessings[16]," so
that they earned more than the mercies they received. This was the grant to them of the evangelical
office, choosing them from among all the kings of this world as the evangelizers of his divine
word in the most remote and unknown lands of those blind and barbarous gentiles. We now call
those lands the Indies of Castille, because through the ministry of that kingdom they will
be put in the way of salvation, God himself being the true pilot. He made clear and easy the
dark and fearful Atlantic sea which had been an awful portent to the most ancient Argives,
Athenians, Egyptians, and Phoenicians, and what is more to the proud Hercules, who, having
come to Cadiz from the east, and seen the wide Atlantic sea, he thought this was the end of
the world and that there was no more land. So he set up his columns with this inscription "Ultra
Gades nil" or "Beyond Cadiz there is nothing." But as human knowledge is ignorance in the sight
of God, and the force of the world but weakness in his presence, it was very easy, with the
power of the Almighty and of your grandparents, to break and scatter the mists and difficulties
of the enchanted ocean. Laughing with good reason at Alcides and his inscription, they discovered
the Indies which were very populous in souls to whom the road to heaven could be shown. The
Indies are also most abundant in all kinds of inestimable treasures, with which the heavy expenses
were repaid to them, and yet remained the richest princes in the world, and thus continued
to exercise their holy and Christian liberality until death. By reason of this most famous
navigation, and new and marvellous discovery, they amended the inscription on the columns of
Hercules, substituting "Plus ultra" for "Ultra Gades nil"; the meaning was, and with much truth,
that further on there are many lands. So this inscription, "Plus ultra," remained on the blazon
of the arms and insignia of the Indies of Castille.

[Note 16: From the poem of Coelius Sedulius, a Christian poet who flourished about A.D. 450.
The passage is--"Hostis Herodes impie Christum venire quod timeo? Non eripit mortalia qui regna
dat coelestia." (Note by Dr Peitschmann.)]

As there are few who are not afflicted by the accursed hunger for gold, and as good successes
are food for an enemy, the devil moved the bosoms of some powerful princes with the desire
to take part in this great business. Alexander VI, the Vicar of Jesus Christ, considering that
this might give rise to impediments in preaching the holy evangel to the barbarous idolaters,
besides other evils which might be caused, desired of his own proper motion, without any petition
from the catholic kings, by authority of Almighty God, to give, and he gave and conceded for
ever, the islands and main lands which were then discovered and which might hereafter be discovered
within the limits and demarcation of 180° of longitude, which is half the world, with all the
dominions, rights, jurisdictions and belongings, prohibiting the navigation and trading in
those lands from whatever cause, to the other princes, kings, and emperors from the year 1493,
to prevent many inconveniences.

But as the devil saw that this door was shut, which he had begun to open to introduce by it
dissensions and disturbances, he tried to make war by means of the very soldiers who resisted
him, who were the same preachers. They began to make a difficulty about the right and title
which the kings of Castille had over these lands. As your invincible father was very jealous
in matters touching his conscience, he ordered this point to be examined, as closely as possible,
by very learned doctors who, according to the report which was given out, were indirect and
doubtful in their conclusions. They gave it as their opinion that these Incas, who ruled in
these kingdoms of Peru, were and are the true and natural lords of that land. This gave a handle
to foreigners, as well catholics as heretics and other infidels, for throwing doubt on the
right which the kings of Spain claim and have claimed to the Indies. Owing to this the Emperor
Don Carlos of glorious memory was on the point of abandoning them, which was what the enemy
of the faith of Christ wanted, that he might regain the possession of the souls which he had
kept in blindness for so many ages.

