Some sections of the primary text used Italic body text, with Roman (de-italicized) type for
emphasis. In these passages, Roman type is shown with +marks+ for clarity. They are in part
a result of the founding of the French Academy in 1635, although the feeling in England that
language needed regulating to prevent its corruption and decline was not purely derivative.
By the close of the seventeenth century an informed Englishman might have been familiar with
a series of native proposals, ranging from those of Carew of Antony and Edmund Bolton early
in the century to that of Defoe at the close. Among the familiar figures who urged the advantages
of an Academy were Evelyn, the Earl of Roscommon, and Dryden. Of these Dryden was particularly
vocal; but Evelyn’s suggestion, associated as it was with the Royal Society, was rather more
spectacular. In 1665 he set forth for the Society’s Committee for Improving the Language an
exhaustive catalogue of the forces tending to the corruption of the English tongue. Those,
he declared, are “victories, plantations, frontiers, staples of commerce, pedantry of schools,
affectation of travellers, translations, fancy and style of court, vernility and mincing of
citizens, pulpits, political remonstrances, theatres, shops, &c.” There follows Evelyn’s careful
formulation of the problems facing those who would refine the language and fix its standards.

This sense of the corruption of the language and of the urgent need for regulation was communicated
to the eighteenth century, in which a number of powerful voices called for action. Early in
the period Addison advocated “something like an Academy that by the best Authorities and Rules
... shall settle all Controversies between Grammar and Idiom” (The Spectator, No. 135). He
was followed by Swift, who in turn was followed by such diverse persons as Orator Henlay, the
Earl of Orrery, and the Earl of Chesterfield. Curiously, Johnson’s appears to be the only weighty
voice in opposition: “the edicts of an English Academy,” he insisted, “would probably be read
by many, only that they might be sure to disobey them.”

But if the two tracts reprinted here may be viewed in this context, they may also be seen from
another vantage--as part of the interminable wrangling in the period between Whigs and Tories,
even over a matter so apparently non-political as the founding of an Academy. Since it was
Swift’s “petty treatise on the English Language”--the epithet is Johnson’s--which provoked
these two replies, we must look briefly at his handiwork. Swift was undoubtedly guilty of pride
of authorship with respect to his Proposal, which appeared on May 17, 1712, in the form of
a Letter to the Earl of Oxford. He had touched on the problem earlier in the Tatler (No. 230),
but this is a more considered effort. In June, 1711, he first broached to Harley the idea of
“a society or academy for correcting and settling our language,” and with Harley’s approval
he began to compose the Letter. Yet it was eight months before the document reached Harley
and another two months, during which it circulated among friends, before Swift retrieved it
for the printer. Thus, and this fact has significance, the Proposal had its inception and its
first consideration in the Tory circles attached to the Harley ministry. A few days before
its publication Swift wrote to Stella: “I suffer my name to be put at the End of it, wch I
nevr did before in my Life.”

Now this willingness to publish under his own name also has a special significance. It is not
merely, as is often assumed, that he cherished the project, though very likely that played
a part. He was motivated, I am convinced, by a desire to flaunt the Proposal as a party document.
It is true that he wrote to Stella two weeks after its publication that “there are 2 Answers
come out to it already, tho tis no Politicks, but a harmless Proposall about the Improvement
of the Engl. Tongue.” “I believe,” he added, “If I writt an Essay upon Straw some fool would
answer it.” But this disclaimer is ingenuous in the light of the political overtones in the
Proposal; for example, the extended praise of Barley as one who saved his country from ruin
“by a foreign war and a domestic faction.” In fact, the lengthy panegyric of the Lord Treasurer,
as well as other matter, is bluntly and deliberately partisan. It could not conceivably have
been interpreted otherwise by contemporaries; nor could Swift have been unaware of its provocative
impact upon his readers. Oldmixon remarks ironically of this part the Proposal--and small wonder
that he does--that it is “incomparable, full of the most delicate Eulogy In the World.” Furthermore
Swift knew, in view of his position as leading writer for the Tory ministry, that to sign his
name was to invite attack--even if he wrote, as he says, upon straw.

There is no doubt he thought the formation of an Academy a matter of great importance. Why
then did he deliberately introduce controversial elements and thus make impossible a discussion
of his proposal wholly on its merits? I suggest as a possible answer that he wished the Whigs
to dissociate themselves from the project and that he used the tactics expected to achieve
this end, in the desire that entire credit for the founding of the Academy should rest with
Harley and Harley’s supporters. The partisan approach was therefore shrewdly calculated to
provoke opposition and to avoid any leaven of Whiggism in the “institution and patronage” of
the Academy. Swift wanted the contemporary prestige, as well as the favorable verdict of posterity,
to be unmistakably placed. Nevertheless there was no intention of excluding meritorious Whigs
from the original membership--only, as is clear from Swift’s attitude, from the “institution
and patronage” of the Academy. In a list of Academicians drawn up by Swift and Harley, unhappily
not extant, members of both parties were included--so Swift wrote to Archbishop King in Dublin,
and there is no reason to doubt it. Even Oldmixon grudgingly reports that Swift had promised
“the Whigs that they shall come in if they will.” However violent his partisanship at times,
Swift could and did respect merit; and Harley was always ready to placate individual members
of the Opposition. There is therefore no need to take seriously, as Oldmixon and the authors
of The British Academy pretend to do, the list of potential members of the Academy printed
first in the Amsterdam Gazette and quoted in The British Academy. It will be seen at a glance
that they constitute that dinner group of Tory “Brothers,” the Society to which Swift belonged,
a group sufficient for its avowed purpose--“to advance conversation and friendship, and to
reward deserving persons”--but of course he would not have accepted them in toto for the Academy.

The Whig writers began their attack on the Proposal immediately. In the Medley, founded by
Mainwaring and Oldmixon “to provide an Antidote against the Poison of the Examiner,” there
is a brief reference in the issue of May 19-23, 1712, to “the very extraordinary Letter to
a Great Man,” followed in the next issue by an extended political attack with the Proposal
as the point of departure. Thus at the outset Swift’s pamphlet was treated as a party document.
At the same time the Whig writers were readying two pamphlets in answer, both announced in
the Medley of May 19-23 as soon to be printed. Apparently neither of these appeared, at least
not under the announced titles; but by May 26 Oldmixon’s Reflections had been published anonymously
and was referred to in the Medley as “a very ingenious Pamphlet.” As any reader of the Reflections
will observe for himself, the pamphlet opens on a violent political note and sustains it throughout.
Although Oldmixon is more concerned to level charges against Swift--a lewd, irreverent cleric,
a turncoat, a party scribbler, etc.--than to deny the validity of Swift’s views concerning
the language, he does directly challenge certain points. And he arrives at a conclusion which
may well have been the result of honest conviction rather than mere party opposition: that
it is neither desirable nor possible to fix the language forever. In a sense this was the chief
issue, and the one where the authoritarian view as represented by Swift and others was most
vulnerable. Is it possible, by the edicts of an academy however eminent its members and respected
its authority, to negate or control the principle of change inherent in language? Unfortunately
Oldmixon did not live long enough to see his attitude aggressively expounded by one of greater
stature who also took issue with Swift, both in the Preface to the Dictionary and in the life
of Swift.

The British Academy, published May 30, 1712 (advertised in the Spectator of that date), is
of composite authorship. The one person known to have had a hand in it--“a great Hand,” says
Oldmixon--is Arthur Mainwaring (The life and posthumous works of Arthur Maynwaring, Esq. [London,
1715], p. 324; this is the source of most of our knowledge of Mainwaring.). The identity of
Mainwaring’s collaborators is a matter of conjecture. Perhaps the most eligible are those who
assisted with the Medley, as Steele, Anthony Henley, and White Kennett. Among other possibilities
are such active Whig writers as Thomas Burnet and George Duckett; and even Oldmixon cannot
be ruled out. Doubtless Mainwaring was the inspiring spirit--of this as well as other attacks
on the group surrounding Harley. Poet, ardent Jacobite convert to Whiggism, member of the Kit
Kat Club, member of Parliament, and Auditor of the Imprest, Mainwaring had a brief but full
career. It included a part in the Whig Examiner and chief responsibility for the Medley. In
the course of his political opposition he appears to have developed a genuine hatred of Swift,
to whom he always referred, if Oldmixon’s word can be trusted, as “one of the wickedest Wretches
alive.” By May, 1712, when The British Academy was published, he was already ill of the disease
which ended in his death a few months later; but he seems to have retained his vigor and his
clear intelligence to the end. The British Academy is shrewdly conceived to cast odium on Swift’s
proposal for an Academy by identifying its potential members as a Tory faction and the whole
project as merely a scheme to provide Harley with a set of pensioners who would be obliged
in gratitude “to revere his Virtue and his Memory.” Whereas in the Reflections Swift is assaulted
with hard obvious blows, in The British Academy a more subtle intelligence is evident: the
attack is oblique and ironic, and a tone of Addisonian urbanity is fairly well maintained.
Nevertheless it is not as literature that these two answers to Swift are to be judged.

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *

                  REFLECTIONS

                       on

                 Dr. Swift’s

                     LETTER

                     to the

               Earl of OXFORD,

                   About The

               English Tongue.

                   LONDON:

  Sold by A. Baldwin at the Oxford Arms in
       Warwick-Lane. (Price Six Pence.)

THE PREFACE

The Bold Manner of publishing the +Letter+ for +correcting, improving+, and +ascertaining the+
English +Tongue+, made me conclude there was something very extraordinary in it, and more than
any one could expect from Persons that were never thought to trouble themselves much about
+Fine Language+. But upon dipping into it, I found there was nothing worthy the Character the
Author acquir’d by other Ingenious Pieces in our Tongue, tho’ I confess, it was not so much
for the Beauty of his Style as for other Qualities, some of which a Divine need not brag of.

’Tis probable, our late Correspondence with +France+ put such a Whim into some Folks Heads,
and because they have an +Academy+ for the same Use at +Paris+, we forsooth must have one at
+London+. The Foreign News, which sometimes tells us more Truth of our doings here than our
own, has the very Names of the Members of the +Academy+ which the Doctor speaks of. I do not
find that it is come to any thing more yet than meeting over a Bottle once a Week, and being
Merry. At which Times People mind talking much, more than talking well. I shou’d have taken
what is printed in the +Amsterdam+ Gazette to have been only a dull +Dutch+ Jest upon those
Men, if this +Letter+ had not been written, and some broad Hints given, that we are to be happier
than we thought of, and to be surpriz’d with a Society that shall make us as Polite as that
of +Reformation+ has made us +Godly+; and I wish it may answer the Ends of it with all my Heart.
But the more I reflected upon this +Project+ and the +Projectors+, the more I was diffident
of it, for the Reasons mention’d in the following Pages.

I know very well the Epistle has but a sorry Reputation, even with the Writer’s own +Party+,
that it is looked upon as a silly superficial Performance, and to be design’d only for an Opportunity
to shew what a +Nack+ he has at +Panegyrick+. Be that as it will, after I had consider’d the
Subject he writes more leisurely than I was won’t to do, I was loth to lose those Considerations;
and having put ’em into this Form, I flatter’d my self the Publick would not receive them ill;
at least all those whom Faction and Prejudice have not render’d Insensible of Truth and Reason,
and to such, a Man must be well set to work that writes a Task suitable to the Integrity and
Ability of +Abel+ and his Brethren, among whom I am very unwilling to reckon our Author.

                  REFLECTIONS

                       on

             Dr. Swift’s Letter,

                     about

          Refining the ENGLISH TONGUE.

I should be guilty of the greatest Folly in the World, if I should go about to give a Character
of Persons of whom I have no manner of Knowledge. To speak well or ill of ’em wou’d be equally
Ridiculous and Dangerous: For it must be all Invention, and I might then abuse a Man both in
my Praise and Dispraise. It is thus with me with Respect to the Author of the Letter lately
publish’d about our Language, and to his Patron. I know neither of them, and if I say a Word
more than themselves, or the World have said of them, I must have recourse to Fiction, which
I cannot think of without abhorrence, where Reputation is concern’d.

That good old Church Martyr the Earl of Strafford was of Opinion, Common Fame was enough to
hang a Man, as in the Case of the Duke of Buckingham, when he was impeach’d by the Commons
for Male Practices in his Ministry; and there were no better Grounds for accusing him, than
that every Body said so. I am quite of another Mind, and let the World say what they will of
any one, I am for condemning no body but whom the Law Condemns, and therefore in these Reflections
I shall not consider so much how to please the Spleen of one Party, as how to expose the Arrogance
of another, who would lord it over us in every Thing, and not only force their Principles upon
us, but their Language, wherein they endeavour to ape their good Friends the French, who for
these three or fourscore Years have been attempting to make their Tongue as Imperious as their
Power.

