When you would have the Walls very thick, for great and heavy Buildings, you must strengthen
the inner part of the Wall with long Piles of singed Olive, which serves for Keys and Braces,
for this Wood being so prepar'd never corrupts.

[Sidenote: Lib. 6. Chap. 11.]

[Sidenote: Vide Index.]

It is likewise of great Importance for the strength of Walls, that all be directly Perpendicular,
and that the Chains, the Pillars and Pieds-droits or Piers be so situated, that solid always
answer'd to the solid; for if there be any part of the Wall or any Pillar that carrys false,
it is impossible the Work should continue long.

There are also two ways of strengthning the Walls, which are either to ease them of their own
weight, or of that of the Earth which they are to support.

The first way of easing is in those Places where there are void spaces, as above Doors or Windows.
These easements may be made two different ways; the first is to put over the Lintel which supports
the Wall, which is over the void space of the Gates and Windows, two Beams, which lying or
resting below directly upon Pieds-droits or Piers meet together above.

The other way is, to make directly over the void spaces Vaulted Arches with Stones cut corner-ways
and tending to one Center. For the Walls be so strengthned by the means of these easements,
that part of the Wall which is below will not sink at all being easied of the load of the part
that is above, and if some defect should happen by tract of time, it may be mended without
propping that which is above.

The second way of easing, is, for Walls that are made to support the Earth; for, besides the
extraordinary thickness which they ought to have, they should have likewise Buttresses on that
side next the Earth, so far distant one from another as is the breadth of the Wall; they ought
likewise to have an Emparement or large Foundation which must be equal to the height of the
Wall, so that they go diminishing by degrees from the bottom to the top, where they come to
equal the height of the Wall.

[Sidenote: Lib. 1. Chap. 5.]

The effect of these Buttresses is not only to support the Earth by their Resistance, but likewise
to lessen its Efforts when it swells, in dividing it into many parts.

[Sidenote: Lib. 6. Chap. 11.]

And if it be judg'd that these Buttresses be not sufficient, the Wall also which supports the
Earth must be strengthned with other Buttresses within.

ART. V.

  Of Flooring and Ceiling.

There are four sorts of Flooring, some are upon the Superficies of the Ground, others between
two Stories, others make the Roof of the House in Plat-form, and the last is Plat-Fond.

To make those Floors that are upon the Ground, you must first make the Earth smooth and plain,
if it be firm and solid, if not, it must be beaten with a Rammer with which they ram down their
Piles; and after having cover'd the Earth with the first Lay or Bed, call'd Statumen by the
Ancients, which was of Flinty Stones about the bigness of ones Fist, among which was mixed
Mortar made of Lime and Sand. Then they laid the second Bed, which they call'd Rudus, which
was made of lesser Stones, of which there were three Parts for one of Stone if they were new,
for if they were taken out of old Buildings, five parts of Stones or Pibbles would be required
for two of Lime.

[Sidenote: Lib. 7. Cap. 4.]

The Greeks had a way of making their Floors in those low places where cold and humidity ordinarily
reign, which freed them from these Inconveniences. They digged the Earth two Foot deep, and
after having beaten it well, they laid a Bed of Mortar or Cement a little sloping from either
side to the Channel, which convey'd the Water under Ground; they laid a Bed of Coal upon the
first Mortar, and having beaten them well, they cover'd them with another Cement or Mortar
made of Lime, Sand and Ashes, which they made smooth when it was dry with a Polishing-Stone.
These Floors presently drank up the Water that fell upon them, that one might walk barefoot
without being incommoded by the Cold.

For the Floors which are between two Stories, there must be a particular care taken, that if
there be any Partition below it, that it may not touch the Flooring for fear lest if the Flooring
came to sink a little, it might be broke upon the Partition which remains firm.

[Sidenote: Vide Index.]

To make these Floorings, the Boards must be nailed at each end upon every Joist, to the end
they may not warp; these Boards or Planks being cover'd with Straw, to hinder the Lime from
wasting the Timber, the first Bed must be laid, made of a mixture of Mortar and little Stones
a hand breadth, which must be beaten a long time with Iron-Levers, and so it must make a solid
Crust which must be nine Inches thick; upon it shall be laid the Noyau or Ame, which must be
at least six inches thick: It must be made of Cement, with which must be mix'd one part Lime
for two parts of Cement. Upon the Ame or Noyau is placed the Parement made with the Rule, afterwards
it must be scrap'd and all the Eminences and Inequality taken away: After that must be laid
a Composition of Lime, Sand and beaten Marble, to fill equally all the Seams or Joints.

If a Flooring be to be made in the open Air, as upon Terrasses, that may endure Rain or Frost
without any Damage; you must nail upon the Joists two Ranks of Boards across, one above the
other; and having laid the first Bed, as is said before, it must be Paved with great Square
Bricks two Foot Square, which must be hollow'd in the Ends in the Form of a half-Channel, the
breadth of an Inch, which must be fill'd with Lime mixed with Oil. These Square Bricks must
be higher in the middle, sloping two Inches for every six Foot; that is to say, a Forty-eighth
Part. Upon these Square Bricks must be laid the Ame; upon which, after it has been well beaten,
as well as the rest, must be put great Square Stones; and to hinder the Moisture from hurting
the Boards, it is good to pour as much of the Lees of Oil as they will soak up.

[Sidenote: Lib. 5. Chap. 10.]

The under part of the Flooring, and the Plat-Fonds, must be made also with great Care. To make
the Plat-Fonds or Flat-roofs, in the Form of a Vault, you must nail to the Joists of the Boards,
or to the Rafters of the Roof, from two Foot to two Foot pieces of crooked Timber, and Choice
must be made of Timber that is not apt to rot; such as, viz. Cypress, Box, Juniper, and Olive;
no Oke must be made use of, because it will warp and crack the Work. The Joists being fastened
to the Summers, you must fix to them Spanish-Broom with Greek-Reeds well beaten. These Reeds
are in stead of Laths, which at present are made use of to make the Eaves of Houses; over these
Reeds must be laid a Plaster of Mortar, made of Sand, to hinder the Drops of Water which may
fall from above from endamaging these Plat-Fonds. After which, the under part must be Plaster'd
pretty thick, making all Places equal with Mortar made of Lime and Sand, that it may be afterwards
Polished with Mortar made with Lime and Marble.

[Sidenote: Lib. 5. Chap. 10.]

The Ancients sometimes made double Vaults, when they were afraid that the Humidity which is
engender'd, by the Vapours which mount up might rot the Wood which is upon the Vaults. This
Method they principally made use of in their Baths.

The Corniches which are made use of under the Plat-Fonds, ought to be little, lest their great
Jetting out, or Projecture should make them heavy, and apt to fall. For this Reason they ought
to be made of pure Stuck of Marble, without any Plaster, that all the Work drying at the same
time, may be less apt to break.

ART. VI.

  Of Plastering.

To make Plaster that it may continue a long time, and not crack; you must take Care to lay
it on Walls that are very Dry; for if the Walls be Moist, the Plastering being expos'd to the
Air, and drying faster than the Walls, will crack.

To do this Methodically, it must be laid, Bed after Bed, or Lay after Lay, having a great Care
not to lay one Bed till the other be almost dry. The Ancients put six Lays, three of Mortar
made of Lime and Sand, and three of Stuck. The first Lays or Beds were always thicker than
the last, and they were very careful to make use of no Mortar made either of Sand or Stuck
in their Plastring, that had not been a long time beaten and mix'd together; especially the
Stuck, which must be beaten and mix'd till it will not stick to the Trowel.

They took likewise a great deal of Pains to run several times over and beat the Plaster, which
gave it a Hardness, a Whiteness, and Polish'd it so well, that it shin'd like a Mirror.

These Plasterings so made, serve to Paint in Fresco upon; for the Colours being laid upon the
Mortar before it was dry, pierced it, and Embodied with it; so that the Painting could not
be defaced though it were wash'd; which would easily be wash'd off if the Mortar were dry.

They likewise laid these Plasterings upon Partitions of Wood filled with fat Earth, nailing
Reeds to them, as we do Laths, and daubing it over with Clay, and then putting on another row
of Reeds across upon the former, and another Bed of fat Earth or Clay, upon which they laid
Beds of Mortar and Stuck, as we have said before.

[Sidenote: Lib. 7. Chap. 4.]

For the Plastering of low and moist places, they had a great many other Precautions, especially
within the House; for as what belonged to the Out-part of the House, they contented themselves
to Plaster from the Bottom of the Wall to the height of three Feet, with Cement.

But as to the Inward-parts of the House, when the Ground without was higher than the lowermost
Flooring; they run up a little narrow Wall against the great one, leaving betwixt the two Walls
only the distance of a Channel or Sewer, which they made lower than the Flooring, to receive
the Water which might be gather'd against the Walls, and let it run out; and to the End they
might hinder the gathering of much Water, by the Vapours which might be enclosed between these
two Walls, they made towards the top of the little Wall Vents to let it out, and this little
Wall was Plastered on the Out-side with Mortar and Stuck, as we have said before.

When the Place was too narrow to permit those Counter-Walls to be made within, they put hollow
Tiles one upon another against the Wall, and placed and plaster'd them over with Mortar and
Stuck. These Tiles which were Pitch'd over within, and were Demi-Channels, let the Water fall
down into the Sewer, which sweat from the great Wall, and so let all the Vapours, which were
engendred by Humidity, go out at the Vents.

CHAP. III.

Of the Convenience of Fabricks.

ARTICLE I.

[Sidenote: Lib. 2. Præs.]

One of the Principal Things the Architect ought to consider, is the Convenience of the place
where he would Build the Fabrick. This is the reason that Dinocrates was blamed by Alexander,
for having propos'd him an Excellent Design for Building a City in a Barren place, and incapable
of Nourishing those who were to Inhabit it.

We must then choose a place that is fertile, and hath abundance of every thing; and which hath
likewise Rivers and Ports capable of furnishing it with all the Product and Commodities of
the adjacent Countries.

The Third thing to be considered is, whether the Air be wholesome; and for this End, we must
choose a high situated place, that it may be less Subject to Fogs and Mists; it must be likewise
far from all Morasses, because the Corruption that may be caused by the infectious Breath of
Venomous Beasts which commonly are ingendred there, makes the place very unwholsom, unless
these Morasses be near the Sea, and situated high, that the Water may fall easily from them
into the Sea, and that the Sea may likewise sometimes overflow them, and by its Saltness kill
all the Venomous Beasts.

It is likewise to be remark'd, That a City situated upon the Sea, must needs have an unwholsom
Air, if it be towards the South or the West; for generally the Heat weakens Bodies, and the
Cold strengthens them; and so we see by Experience, that those who go out of a Cold Country
into an Hot, have great difficulty to keep themselves in Health; whereas on the contrary, the
Inhabitants of Hot Countries who go into Colder, have generally good Health.

The Ancients were accustomed to judge of the Quality of the Air, Water and Fruits, which might
render a place wholsome by the Constitution of the Bodies of those Beasts which were nourished
there, and to this End they consulted their Entrails; for if the Liver was Corrupted, they
conjectured that the same thing must happen to Men that should Inhabit in that place.

ART. II.

  Of the Form and Situation of the Building.

[Sidenote: Lib. 1. Chap. 6.]

After having chosen a wholsome place, the Streets must be laid out according to the most Advantageous
Aspect of the Heavens, and the best way will be to lay the Streets out so, that the Wind may
not come directly into them, especially where the Winds are great and cold.

The Prospect of Private Mens Houses is made more or less Commodious, by the Openings which
are differently made, to receive the Air and the Light according to the Quality of the Parts
that are in the Fabrick.

[Sidenote: Lib. 6. Chap. 9.]

For the Cellars, Granaries, and generally all places that we wou'd Lock up, or keep any thing
in, should be exposed to the North, and receive very few Rays of the Sun.

[Sidenote: Lib. 6. Chap. 7.]

The different Use of the Parts which Compose the Buildings, do likewise require different Situations;
for the Dining-Rooms in Winter, and the Baths among the Ancients, were always turned to the
West, for that Situation made them warmer, because the Sun then shone upon them, about the
time they were wont to make use of those Apartments.

The Libraries ought to be turned to the rising Sun, because they are generally made use of
in the Morning; besides, the Books are not so much damnified in Libraries so situated, as in
those which are turned to the South and West, which are subject to Worms and a certain Humidity
which engenders Moldiness, and consequently destroys the Books.

The Dining-Rooms for the Spring and Autumn, should be turned towards the East, to the end,
that being covered from the great force the Sun hath when it is near Setting, they may be cooler
about the time they are to be made use of.

The Summer Apartments must be turned to the North, that they may be fresher and cooler.

This Situation is likewise very proper for Closets, which are adorn'd with Pictures for the
Light which is always equal, represents the Colours always alike.

There must likewise great respect be had to the difference of Climates, for the Excess of Heat
and Cold, require different Situations and Structures; for the Houses in the Northern parts
of the World, ought to be Vaulted, and have few Openings, and turn'd to the South; On the contrary
in Hot Countries there must be great Openings and turn to the North; to the End that Art and
Industry may remedy the Defects of the place.

ART. III.

  Of the Disposition of Fabricks.

[Sidenote: Lib. 6. Chap. 6.]

The Disposition or Distribution of Fabricks contributes much to their Convenience, when each
thing is so plac'd, that it is in a Proper place for the Use for which the Fabrick is Design'd;
and for this reason the Town-House and the Market-Place ought to be in the Middle of the City,
unless it happen that there be a Port or a River; for the Market ought not to be far distant
from those places where the Merchandize is.

The Houses of Private Men, ought to be differently disposed, according to the divers Conditions
of those that Dwell in them: For in the Houses of Great Men, the Apartments of the Lord, must
not be at the Entry, where ought to be nothing but Portico's, Courts, Peristyles, Halls, and
Gardens to receive the great Number of those who have Business with them, and make their Court
to them.

The Houses of Merchants ought to have at the Entry their Shops and Magazines, and all other
places where Strangers are to come about their Business.

[Sidenote: Lib. 6. Chap. 9.]

The Country Houses ought to have a different Order and Disposition from those of the City.

For the Kitchen ought to be near the Ox-house, so that from their Cratches they may see the
Chimney and the rising Sun; for this makes the Oxen more Beautiful, and makes their Hair lie
better.

The Baths ought likewise to be near the Kitchen, that the Water may be more conveniently heated.

The Press ought not to be far from the Kitchen, for that will much facilitate the Service that
is necessary for the Preparation of Olives. If the Press be made of Wooden Beams, it ought
to have at least for 16 Foot Breadth, 40 Foot of Length, if there be but one; or 24, if there be 2.

Not far from the Press, must the Cellar be plac'd, whose Windows must be turned to the North,
because the heat spoils the Wine.

On the contrary, the Place where the Oil is kept, ought to be turned to the South; to the End,
the gentle heat of the Sun may keep the Oil from freezing.

The Houses for Sheep and Goats ought to be so large, that each of them may at least have 4
Foot for his place.

The Stables must likewise be Built near the House in a warm place, but not turned towards the
Chimney; for Horses that often see the Fire, are generally ill Coated.

The Barns and Granaries, as likewise the Mills, ought to be at a pretty distance from the House,
because of the Danger of Fire.

In all sorts of Fabricks, a particular Care must be taken that they be well lighted; but the
Light is principally necessary in the Stair-Cases, Passages, and Dining-Rooms.

ART. IV.

  Of the Convenient Form of Buildings.

When we are assur'd of the Convenience of the place where the City is to be Built, by the Knowledge
we have of the goodness of the Air, of its Fertility, Rivers and Ports, care must be taken
to make Fortifications, which do not only consist in the Solidity of the Walls and Ramparts,
but principally in their Form.

The Figure or Form of a place ought neither to be Square, nor Composed of Angles too far advanc'd,
but it must have a great number of Corners, to the end the Enemy may be seen from all Parts;
for the Angles that are so far advanc'd, are ill to be defended, and more favourable to the
Besiegers than the Besieged. The Approach to the Walls must be made as difficult as possible.

The most Convenient Form of Publick Places, is to have in their Breadth 2 Thirds of their Length;
The Greeks made about their Publick places Double Portico's, with Pillars near together, which
Supported the Galleries above.

But the Romans finding this great number of Pillars to be inconvenient, placed them at a greater
distance one from another, that they might have Shops well lighted.

[Sidenote: Lib. 5. Chap. 3.]

The Stair-Cases of all Publick Buildings, ought to be large and streight, and to have many
Entrances, to the End the People may come in and out conveniently; but we shall speak of this
more largely in another place.

[Sidenote: Lib. 5. Chap. 2.]

[Sidenote: Lib. 6. Chap. 6.]

The Halls where great Assemblies are to meet, ought to have their Ceiling very high, and to
give them their true Proportion, we must unite the Length and Breadth, and give the half of
the whole for the height of the Ceiling. The Halls where the Ceiling is not so high, must have
only their breadth, and half of their length for their height.

[Sidenote: Lib. 5. Chap. 2.]

In vast and high places, to remedy the Inconvenience of the noisy Echo, about the middle of
the height of the Wall, must be made a Cornish round about to break the course of the Voice;
which without that, beating against the Walls, would beat a Second time against the Ceiling,
and cause a troublesom double Echo.

CHAP. IV.

  Of the Beauty of Buildings.

ARTICLE I.

  In what the Beauty of Building Consists.

Buildings may have two sorts of Beauty, the one Positive, and the other Arbitrary. Positive
Beauty, is that which necessarily pleaseth of her self; Arbitrary, is that which doth not necessarily
please of her self, but her agreeableness depends upon the Circumstances that accompany her.

Positive Beauty, consists in Three principal Things; viz. In the Equality of the Relation that
the Parts have one to another, which is called Symmetry, in the Richness of the Materials,
in the Properness, Neatness, and Exactness of the Performance.

[Sidenote: Lib. 2. Chap. 8.]

[Sidenote: Lib. 1. Chap. 2.]

[Sidenote: Lib. 6. Chap. 11.]

As to what regards the Relation of the Parts of the Fabrick one to another, Vitruvius hath
not spoke of it, but only where he prefers the Netway of Walling before all other sorts of
Masonry, because of the Uniformity that is in that Figure, and the laying of the Stones; As
to the Richness of the Materials, he leaves the Disposition to him that is at the Expences
of the Building; and he acknowledges that the Beauty of the Performance depends wholly upon
the Dexterousness and Industry of the Workmen.

The second sort of Beauty, which only pleases by the Circumstances that accompany it, is of
two sorts; The one is called Wisdom, and the other Regularity. Wisdom consists in the reasonable
use of Positive Beauties, which result from the use and convenient ranking of the Parts; for
the Perfection of which, to a rich and precious Material, is given an Equal and Uniform Figure,
with all the Property and Correctness possible.

Vitruvius gives us two Examples of this sort of Beauty; The first is, When Bosses or Relievo's
are made to hide the Joynts, putting them directly under the Bosses which hide them by their
jetting or projecture, for this gives them great Beauty and an agreeable Aspect.

The second is, When we consider the Winter-Appartments, that we have a care, that upon the
Ceiling there be little or no Carving, and that the Ornaments be not made of Stuck, because
it hath a shining whiteness, which will not endure the least nastiness; for it is impossible
to hinder the smoak of the Fire and Candles which are lighted in the Winter, from tarnishing
the beautiful Colour of the Work to which the Filth will stick, and enter into the Crevises
of the Carving, which cannot be wiped out.

The Regularity depends upon the Observation of the Laws which are Established for the Proportions
of all the Parts of Architecture, the Observation of these Laws extreamly pleases those that
understand Architecture, who love these Proportions for two Reasons.

The First is, That they are for the most part founded upon Reason; which requires, for example,
that the parts that support and are under, be stronger than those above; as we see in Pedestalls,
which are broader than the Pillars they support, and they are broader at the bottom than the top.

