It now becomes a question--What other types of timber diseases shall be described? Of course
the limits of a popular article are too narrow for anything approaching an exhaustive treatment
of such a subject, and nothing has as yet been said of several other diseases due to crust-like
fungi often found on decaying stems, or of others due to certain minute fungi which attack
healthy roots. Then there is a class of diseases which commence in the bark or cortex of trees,
and extend thence into the cambium and timber: some of these "cankers," as they are often called,
are proved to be due to the ravages of fungi, though there is another series of apparently
similar "cankers" which are caused by variations in the environment--the atmosphere and weather
generally.

It would need a long article to place the reader au courant with the chief results of what
is known of these diseases, and I must be content here with the bare statement that these "cankers"
are in the main due to local injury or destruction of the cambium. If the normal cylindrical
sheet of cambium is locally irritated or destroyed, no one can wonder that the thickening layers
of wood are not continued normally at the locality in question; the uninjured cells are also
influenced, and abnormal cushions of tissue formed, which vary in different cases. Now, in
"cankers" this is--put shortly--what happens: it may be, and often is, due to the local action
of a parasitic fungus; or it may be, and, again, often is, owing to injuries produced by the
weather, in the broad sense, and saprophytic organisms may subsequently invade the wounds.

The details as to how the injury thus set up is propagated to other parts--how the "canker"
spreads into the bark and wood around--are details, and would require considerable space for
their description: the chief point here is again the destructive action of mycelia of various
fungi, which by means of their powers of pervading the cells and vessels of the wood, and of
secreting soluble ferments which break down the structure of the timber, render the latter
diseased and unfit for use. The only too well known larch disease is a case in point; but since
this is a subject which needs a chapter to itself, I may pass on to more general remarks on
what we have learned so far.

It will be noticed that, whereas such fungi as Trametes radiciperda and Agaricus melleus are
true parasites which can attack the living roots of trees, the other fungi referred to can
only reach the interior of the timber from the exposed surfaces of wounds. It has been pointed
out along what lines the special treatment of the former diseases must be followed, and it
only remains to say of the latter: take care of the cortex and cambium of the tree, and the
timber will take care of itself. It is unquestionably true that the diseases due to wound parasites
can be avoided if no open wounds are allowed to exist. Many a fine oak and beech perishes before
its time, or its timber becomes diseased and a high wind blows the tree down, because the spores
of one of these fungi alight on the cut or torn surface of a pruned or broken branch. Of course
it is not always possible to carry out the surgical operations, so to speak, which are necessary
to protect a tree which has lost a limb, and in other cases no doubt those responsible have
to discuss whether it costs more to perform the operations on a large scale than to risk the
timber. With these matters I have nothing to do here, but the fact remains that by properly
closing over open wounds, and allowing the surrounding cambium to cover them up, as it will
naturally do, the term of life of many a valuable tree can be prolonged, and its timber not
only prevented from becoming diseased and deteriorating, but actually increased in value.

There is no need probably for me to repeat that, although the present essay deals with certain
diseases of timber due to fungi, there are other diseases brought about entirely by inorganic
agencies. Some of these were touched upon in the last article, and I have already put before
the readers of Nature some remarks as to how trees and their timber may suffer from the roots
being in an unsuitable medium.

In the next paper it is proposed to deal with the so-called "dry rot" in timber which has been
felled and cut up--a disease which has produced much distress at various times and in various
countries.