Wednesday, March 10th.--Even in the gloomy atmosphere of the Upper Chamber the subject of divorce
lends itself to humour. Lord BUCKMASTER, who introduced a Bill founded on the recommendations
of the Royal Commission, performed his task with due solemnity, but some of the noble Lords
who opposed it were positively skittish. Lord BRAYE, for example, thought that, if the Bill
passed, Who's Who would require a supplement entitled Who's Who's Wife; and Lord PHILLIMORE
illustrated the effects of easy divorce by a story of a Swiss marriage in which the bride-elect
was attended by four of the happy man's previous spouses. He also told another of an American
judge who, having explained that in this department of his duties he was "very strict," added,
"Of course I make no difficulty the first time, but if they come again within twelve months
I want a good reason."

Mr. HOGGE led a vigorous attack on the Ministry of Transport, which he seemed to think had
done very little for its money except to divert the omnibuses at Westminster and so make it
more difficult for Members of Parliament to get to the House. Mr. KENNEDY JONES, who was responsible
for the innovation, rather hinted that in the case of some Members this might not be altogether
an objection. The brunt of the defence fell upon Mr. NEAL, owing to the regretted absence of
his chief, who had been ordered away by his doctor for a much-needed holiday and was reported
to be recruiting himself on the golf-links. If exercise is what he needs he could have got
plenty of it in the House to-night. Thanks to a persistent minority, Members were kept tramping
through the Lobbies for the best part of five hours, and did not complete the full round of
eighteen divisions until 2.15 A.M.

Thursday, March 11th.--Possibly the news of "direct action's" heavy cropper at the Trade Union
Conference had reached the Front Bench before the PRIME MINISTER, in reply to a question regarding
the shortage of labour in the building trades, bluntly attributed it to the stringency of the
Trade Union regulations. When Mr. ADAMSON attempted to shift the blame on to a Government Department
Mr. LLOYD GEORGE retorted that he would be perfectly ready to deal with any peccant official
if the Labour Leader for his part would deal with the Trade Unions.

General SEELY repeated his familiar arguments in favour of an independent Air Ministry, and
Mr. CHURCHILL once more defended his position, urging that it was better for the Air Service
to have half a Minister in the Cabinet than none at all. To a suggestion that the lives of
the Armenians might have been saved if we had sent more aeroplanes to Asia Minor, Mr. CHURCHILL
replied that unfortunately the Armenian and Turkish populations were so intermingled that our
bombs would be dropping indiscriminately, like the rain, "upon the just and unjust feller."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

BUBBLE AND SQUEAK.

(By a Grateful Student of the New English Dictionary.)

  I can conjugate the modern verb "to wangle,"
    And, if required, translate it into Greek;
  I can even tell a wurzel from a mangel;
    But I cannot tell a bubble from a squeak.

  I still can march eight furlongs at the double,
    Although I shall be seventy next week;
  I can separate a bubble from a bubble;
    But I cannot tell a bubble from a squeak.

  I know a catfish differs from a seamew;
    I don't expect Bellaggio at Belleek;
  I know a cassowary from an emu;
    But I cannot tell a bubble from a squeak.

  I'm acquainted with the works of HENRY PURZELL
    (My mastery of spelling is unique);
  I repeat, I know a mangel from a wurzel;
    But I cannot tell a bubble from a squeak.

  I'm proficient both in jotting and in tittling;
    I know a certain cure for boots that creak;
  I can see through Mr. KEYNES and Mr. Britling;
    But I cannot tell a bubble from a squeak.

  I can always tell a hari from a kari
    ("Harakiri" is a silly pedant's freak);
  I can tell the style of CAINE from that of MARIE;
    But I cannot tell a bubble from a squeak.

  I never take a DEELEY for a DOOLEY;
    I never take a putter for a cleek;
  I never talk of HEALY, meaning HOOLEY;
    But I cannot tell a bubble from a squeak.

  I understand the sense of "oils are spotty";
    I know the height of Siniolchum's peak;
  I know that some may think my ditty dotty;
    But I cannot tell a bubble from a squeak.

  P.S.

  I know the market price of eggs in Surrey,
    The acreage of maize in Mozambique--
  And now at last, thanks to immortal "MURRAY,"
    I've learned to tell a bubble from a squeak.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CONSERVATISM OF THE LIBERAL PARTY.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--I know you take no sides in party politics, but I still think you would like
to hear why it is that I have gone over to the Independent Liberals. No, it has nothing to
do with Mr. ASQUITH'S triumphal procession and still less with the NORTHCLIFFE Press. The fact
is that till quite recently I belonged to the true blue Tory school--was indeed probably the
last survivor of the Old Guard--and I found myself out of touch with the progressive tendencies
of modern Toryism, its deplorable way of moving with the times, its hopeless habit of discarding
what it would call the old shibboleths when it wrongly imagined them to be outworn. My decision
to leave a party that has long ceased to deserve its honoured name was immediately due to a
Liberal Paper which editorially ridiculed the Liberty League, formed for the defeat of Bolshevist
propaganda, and pooh-poohed the idea of the existence of dangerous Bolshevist elements in the
country. This attitude attracted me enormously; for I recalled the standpoint of the same paper
in the days before the War--how it ridiculed the alleged German menace and pooh-poohed the
idea of the existence of hostile German elements in our midst. Here, I said, is the party for
me; here is your authentic Bourbon spirit--the type that learns nothing and forgets nothing;
that in the midst of a changing world remains immovable as a rock. Yes, Sir, for a Tory of
the old school there is no place to-day except in the ranks of Liberalism.

  Yours faithfully,
  SEMPER EADEM.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

RATES OF EXCHANGE.

Jones was reading his morning paper in the opposite corner seat with unusual attention, and
he disregarded my greeting.

"Why this absorption?" I inquired. "Usually you come to the station with a piece of toast behind
one ear, fastening your boots as you run, and wake us all up with your first fine morning rapture."

"I was just taking a look at the exchanges," he replied. "The mark's about the same price as
fly-paper, and, judging by the news from New York, your chewing-gum is going to cost you more
shortly. Do you know anything about the money market?"

"I occasionally see it stated that 'money is plentiful' in it," I returned. "I should think
it must be an ideal place."

"The most gorgeous thing in the world is to make a bit on exchange," he said. "There's such
a splendid feeling of not having earned it, you know."

"I understand exactly," I replied. "Cox once credited me with an extra month's pay by mistake.
But I didn't realise that you ever had to think about money matters after having run our Mess
in France."

He appeared to take no offence. His capacity for being insulted in that direction had probably
been exhausted during the period in point.

"I know quite a lot about exchange," he remarked with a reminiscent smile. "You remember that
when I got pipped in France in '15, they sent me out next time to Salonica. I hadn't been there
very long before the question of exchange cropped up. In the early days most of us had English
money only, and the villagers used to rook us frightfully changing it. I remember sending my
batman, MacGusgogh, to a place for eggs, and he came back with the change for my Bradbury in
nickel. I had a good look at it, and on each coin was the mystic inscription, 'DIHAP,' which
is pronounced 'dinar.'

"'MacGusgogh,' I said, 'you pretend to be a Scotsman and yet you've been diddled. This is Serbian
money, and not worth a bean.'

"'Oh the deceitfu' deevils,' said he, 'there's neither truth nor honesty in the leein' buddies,
Sir. But here's your Bradbury, an', at onny rate, we hae the eggs, Sir, for I paid for them
wi' a label off yin o' they Japaneesy beer bottles. It seemed an awfu' waste to spend guid
siller on folk that dinna ken when they see it.'"

I began to see the possibilities of the money market.

"I was round about there till the Armistice," Jones went on, "then I drifted by stages to South
Russia. All the Eastern countries live by exchange. Practically the only trade they have is
playing tennis with each others' currency, and the headquarters of the industry in 1918 was
South Russia. I thought I'd seen the limit of low finance when I'd experienced the franc, lira,
drachma, dinar, lev and piastre; but they were all child's play to the rouble in 1918."

"I thought Russian money was all dud before that," I remarked.

"Not a bit of it," said Jones. "You see, it's not as if there were one breed, so to speak,
of rouble. There were KERENSKY roubles, and Duma roubles, and NICHOLAS roubles, and every little
town had a rouble-works which was turning out local notes as hard as they, could go. I missed
a fortune there by inches."

"Tell me," I said, in response to his anecdotal eye.

"I had a job there which consisted of going backwards and forwards on the railway between Otwiski
and Triadropoldir in the Caucasus, a six days' trip. The possibilities of the situation never
struck me till one day I, asked a shopman in Triadropoldir to give me my change in Otwiski
roubles--both towns had their own currency, of course. He gave me five Otwiski roubles for
one of his own town. I thought a bit about that, and when I got back to Otwiski I tried the
same thing, and found I could get three Triadropoldir roubles there for one Otwiski."

"I see," I remarked, as the beauty of this arrangement dawned upon me.

"All I had to do therefore was to change my money in Otwiski for three times as much Triadropoldir
currency, and then go up the line to the other place and change it back again, making fifteen
hundred per cent, on the round trip. Of course you couldn't always change the full amount,
but in a couple of months I had sixty thousand roubles--my valise was crammed with them--and
I was only waiting to get down to the Field Cashier to change out and make my fortune."

"And did you?" I asked.

"No, I didn't. One morning the Reds arrived in Triadropoldir, and my servant and I only just
got away with the valise on one of those inspection cars which you propel by pulling a handle
backwards and forwards. A section of Red Cavalry came after us, and we took it in turns to
work the handle."

"Your servant won't ever be short of a job," I commented. "He ought to take to film-acting
after that like a duck to water."

"We soon finished my servant's ammunition and they were closing in on us fast. My hair had
appreciably lifted my tin hat when I had a brain-wave and threw out a double handful of rouble
notes. It worked like a charm; they all stopped to collect the money, and we had gone quite
a distance before they caught us up again, I threw out more notes at intervals, and the last
thousand roubles went just as we came in sight of DENIKIN'S outposts fifteen miles down the
line. We were saved, but I had lost my fortune, for there was no chance of repeating the operation.