It must not be forgotten that this was the monarchical, secular, and immemorial policy of France
as the disturber of European peace; continued by the republic, it was rendered more pernicious
and exasperating to the upholders of the balance of power. Not only was the republic more energetic
and less scrupulous than the monarchy, her rivals were in a very low estate indeed. Great Britain
had stripped France and Holland of their colonies, but these new possessions and the ocean
highway must be protected at enormous expense. The Commons refused to authorize a new loan,
and the nation was exhausted to such a degree that Pitt and the King, shrinking from the opprobrious
attacks of the London populace, and noting with anguish the renewal of bloody disorder in Ireland,
made a feint of peace negotiations through the agent they employed in Switzerland to foment
royalist demonstrations against France wherever possible. Wickham asked on March eighth, 1796,
on what terms the Directory would make an honorable peace, and in less than three weeks received
a rebuff which declared that France would under no circumstances make restitution of its continental
conquests. In a sense it was Russia's Polish policy which kept Prussia and Austria so occupied
with the partition that the nascent republic of France was not strangled in its cradle by the
contiguous powers. Provided she had the lion's share of Poland, Catherine was indifferent to
the success of Jacobinism. But she soon saw the danger of a general conflagration and, applying
Voltaire's epithet for ecclesiasticism to the republic, cried all abroad: Crush the Infamous!
Conscious of her old age, distrusting all the possible successors to her throne: Paul the paranoiac,
Constantine the coarse libertine, and the super-elegant Alexander, she refused a coalition
with England and turned her activities eastward against the Cossacks and into Persia; but she
consented to be the intermediary between Austria and Great Britain. Austria wanted the Netherlands,
but only if she could secure with them a fortified girdle wherewith to protect and hold them.
She likewise desired the Milanese and the Legations in Italy, as well as Venetia. As the price
of continued war on France, these lands and a subsidy of three million pounds were the terms
exacted from Great Britain. With no army at his disposal and his naval resources strained to
the utmost, George III agreed to pay a hundred and fifty thousand pounds per month until parliament
would make the larger grant. Thugut, the Austrian minister, accepted. Cobenzl, the Austrian
ambassador at St. Petersburg, arranged affairs with Catherine concerning Bavaria, the French
royalists under Condé bribed Pichegru into a promise of yielding the fortresses of the north
to their occupation, the Austrian army on the Rhine was strengthened. In retort Jourdan was
stationed on the lower and Moreau on the upper Rhine, each with eighty thousand men, Bonaparte
was despatched to Italy, and Hoche made ready a motley crew of outlaws and Vendeans wherewith
to enter Ireland, join Wolfe Tone and his United Irishmen, and thus let loose the elements
of civil war in that unhappy island. Europe at large expected the brunt of the struggle north
of the Alps in central Germany: the initiated knew better.

CHAPTER XXVI.

Bonaparte on a Great Stage[66].

              [Footnote 66: The state of Europe may be studied in the
              Correspondence of Mallet du Pan and in the Archives
              Woronzoff; in Vivenot: Thugut and Clerfayt; Daudet: Les
              Bourbons et la Russie; La Conspiration de Pichegru;
              Sorel: L'Europe et la Révolution Française; Lecky:
              England in the XVIII century; Stanhope's Life of Pitt;
              the memoirs of Prince Adam Czartoryski; also the
              diplomatic papers of Thugut, Clerfayt, Hermann, and
              Sandoz.]

     Bonaparte and the Army of Italy -- The System of Pillage --
     The General as a Despot -- The Republican Armies and French
     Politics -- Italy as the Focal Point -- Condition of Italy
     -- Bonaparte's Sagacity -- His Plan of Action -- His Army
     and Generals -- Strength of the Army of Italy -- The
     Napoleonic Maxims of Warfare -- Advance of Military Science
     -- Bonaparte's Achievements -- His Financial Policy --
     Effects of His Success.

[Sidenote: 1796.]

The struggle which was imminent was for nothing less than a new lease of national life for
France. It dawned on many minds that in such a combat changes of a revolutionary nature--as
regarded not merely the provisioning and management of armies, as regarded not merely the grand
strategy to be adopted and carried out by France, but as regarded the very structure and relations
of other European nations--would be justifiable. But to be justifiable they must be adequate;
and to be adequate they must be unexpected and thorough. What should they be? The OEdipus who
solves this riddle for France is the man of the hour. He was found in Bonaparte. What mean
these ringing words from the headquarters at Nice, which, on March twenty-seventh, 1796, fell
on the ears of a hungry, eager soldiery and a startled world? "Soldiers, you are naked, badly
fed. The government owes you much; it can give you nothing. Your long-suffering, the courage
you show among these crags, are splendid, but they bring you no glory; not a ray is reflected
upon you. I wish to lead you into the most fertile plains of the world. Rich provinces, great
towns, will be in your power; there you will find honor, glory, and riches. Soldiers of Italy,
can you be found lacking in honor, courage, or constancy?"

Such language has but one meaning. By a previous understanding with the Directory, the French
army was to be paid, the French treasury to be replenished, at the expense of the lands which
were the seat of war. Corsicans in the French service had long been suspected of sometimes
serving their own interests to the detriment of their adopted country. Bonaparte was no exception,
and occasionally he felt it necessary to justify himself. For example, he had carefully explained
that his marriage bound him to the republic by still another tie. Yet it appears that his promotion,
his engagement with the directors, and his devotion to the republic were all concerned primarily
with personal ambition, though secondarily and incidentally with the perpetuation of a government
professedly based on the Revolution. From the outset of Napoleon's independent career, something
of the future dictator appears. This implied promise that pillage, plunder, and rapine should
henceforth go unpunished in order that his soldiers might line their pockets is the indication
of a settled policy which was more definitely expressed in each successive proclamation as
it issued from his pen. It was repeated whenever new energy was to be inspired into faltering
columns, whenever some unparalleled effort in a dark design was to be demanded from the rank
and file of the army, until at last a point-blank promise was made that every man should return
to France with money enough in his pocket to become a landowner.

There was magic in the new spell, the charm never ceased to work; with that first call from
Nice began the transformation of the French army, fighting now no longer for principle, but
for glory, victory, and booty. Its leader, if successful, would be in no sense a constitutional
general, but a despotic conqueror. Outwardly gracious, and with no irritating condescension;
considerate wherever mercy would strengthen his reputation; fully aware of the influence a
dramatic situation or a pregnant aphorism has upon the common mind, and using both with mastery;
appealing as a climax to the powerful motive of greed in every heart, Bonaparte was soon to
be not alone the general of consummate genius, not alone the organizing lawgiver of conquered
lands and peoples, but, what was essential to his whole career, the idol of an army which was
not, as of old, the servant of a great nation, but, as the new era had transformed it, the
nation itself.

The peculiar relation of Bonaparte to Italy, to Corsica, and to the Convention had made him,
as early as 1794, while yet but chief of artillery, the real director of the Army of Italy.
He had no personal share in the victorious campaign of that year, but its victories, as he
justly claimed, were due to his plans. During the unsuccessful Corsican expedition of the following
winter, for which he was but indirectly responsible, the Austro-Sardinians in Piedmont had
taken advantage of its absorbing so many French troops to undo all that had so far been accomplished.
During the summer of 1795 Spain and Prussia had made peace with France. In consequence all
northern Europe had been declared neutral, and the field of operations on the Rhine had been
confined to the central zone of Germany, while at the same time the French soldiers who had
formed the Army of the Pyrenees had been transferred to the Maritime Alps. In 1796, therefore,
the great question was whether the Army of the Rhine or that of Italy was to be the chief weapon
of offense against Austria.

Divided interests and warped convictions quickly created two opinions in the French nation,
each of which was held with intensity and bitterness by its supporters. So far the Army of
the Rhine was much the stronger, and the Emperor had concentrated his strength to oppose it.
But the wisest heads saw that Austria might be flanked by way of Italy. The gate to Lombardy
was guarded by the sturdy little army of Victor Amadeus, assisted by a small Austrian force.
If the house of Savoy, which was said to wear at its girdle the keys of the Alps, could be
conquered and brought to make a separate peace, the Austrian army could be overwhelmed, and
a highway to Vienna opened first through the plains of Lombardy, then by the Austrian Tyrol,
or else by the Venetian Alps. Strangely enough, the plainest and most forcible exposition of
this plan was made by an emigrant in London, a certain Dutheil, for the benefit of England
and Austria. But the Allies were deaf to his warnings, while in the mean time Bonaparte enforced
the same idea upon the French authorities, and secured their acceptance of it. Both he and
they were the more inclined to the scheme because once already it had been successfully initiated;
because the general, having studied Italy and its people, thoroughly understood what contributions
might be levied on them; because the Army of the Rhine was radically republican and knew its
own strength; because therefore the personal ambitions of Bonaparte, and in fact the very existence
of the Directory, alike depended on success elsewhere than in central Europe.

Having been for centuries the battle-field of rival dynasties, Italy, though a geographical
unit with natural frontiers more marked than those of any other land, and with inhabitants
fairly homogeneous in birth, speech, and institutions, was neither a nation nor a family of
kindred nations, but a congeries of heterogeneous states. Some of these, like Venice and Genoa,
boasted the proud title of republics; they were in reality narrow, commercial, even piratical
oligarchies, destitute of any vigorous political life. The Pope, like other petty rulers, was
but a temporal prince, despotic, and not even enlightened, as was the Grand Duke of Tuscany.
Naples and the Milanese both groaned under the yoke of foreign rulers, and the only passable
government in the length and breadth of the land was that of the house of Savoy in Piedmont
and Sardinia, lands where the revolutionary spirit of liberty was most extended and active.
The petty courts, like those of Parma and Modena, were nests of intrigue and corruption. There
was, of course, in every place that saving remnant of high-minded men which is always providentially
left as a seed; but the people as a whole were ignorant and enervated. The accumulations of
ages, gained by an extensive and lucrative commerce, or by the tilling of a generous soil,
had not been altogether dissipated by misrule, and there was even yet rich store of money in
many of the venerable and still splendid cities. Nowhere in the ancient seats of the Roman
commonwealth, whose memory was now the cherished fashion in France, could anything more than
a reflection of French revolutionary principles be discerned; the rights of man and republican
doctrine were attractive subjects of debate in many cities throughout the peninsula, but there
was little of that fierce devotion to their realization so prevalent beyond the Alps.

The sagacity of Bonaparte saw his account in these conditions. Being a professed republican,
he could announce himself as the regenerator of society, and the liberator of a people. If,
as has been supposed, he already dreamed of a throne, where could one be so easily founded
with the certainty of its endurance? As a conqueror he would have a divided, helpless, and
wealthy people at his feet. If the old flame of Corsican ambition were not yet extinguished,
he felt perhaps that he could wreak the vengeance of a defeated and angry people upon Genoa,
their oppressor for ages.

His preparations began as early as the autumn of 1795, when, with Carnot's assistance, the
united Pyrenean and Italian armies were directed to the old task of opening the roads through
the mountains and by the sea-shore into Lombardy and central Italy. They won the battle of
Loano, which secured the Maritime Alps once more; but a long winter amid these inclement peaks
had left the army wretched and destitute of every necessity. It had been difficult throughout
that winter to maintain even the Army of the Interior in the heart of France; the only chance
for that of Italy was movement. The completed plan of action was forwarded from Paris in January.
But, as has been told, Schérer, the commanding general, and his staff were outraged, refusing
to consider its suggestions, either those for supplying their necessities in Lombardy, or those
for the daring and venturesome operations necessary to reach that goal.

Bonaparte, who could invent such schemes, alone could realize them; and the task was intrusted
to him. For the next ten weeks no sort of preparation was neglected. The nearly empty chest
of the Directory was swept clean; from that source the new commander received forty-seven thousand
five hundred francs in cash, and drafts for twenty thousand more; forced loans for considerable
sums were made in Toulon and Marseilles; and Salicetti levied contributions of grain and forage
in Genoa according to the plan which had been preconcerted between him and the general in their
Jacobin days. The army which Bonaparte finally set in motion was therefore a fine engine of
war. Its immediate necessities relieved, the veterans warmed to their work, and that notable
promise of booty worked them to the pitch of genuine enthusiasm. The young commander, moreover,
was as circumspect as a man of the first ability alone could be when about to make the venture
of his life and play for the stake of a world. His generals of division were themselves men
of mark--personages no less than Masséna, Augereau, Laharpe, and Sérurier. Of Masséna some
account has already been given. Augereau was Bonaparte's senior by thirteen years, of humble
and obscure origin, who had sought his fortunes as a fencing-master in the Bourbon service
at Naples, and having later enlisted in the French forces sent to Spain in 1792, rose by his
ability to be general of brigade, then division commander in the Army of Italy. He was rude
in manner and plebeian in feeling, jealous of Bonaparte, but brave and capable. In the sequel
he played an important part and rose to eminence, though he distrusted both the Emperor and
the empire and flinched before great crises. Neither Laharpe nor Sérurier was distinguished
beyond the sphere of their profession, but in that they were loyal and admirable. Laharpe was
a member of the famous Swiss family banished from home for devotion to liberty. Under Luckner
in Germany he had earned and kept the sobriquet of "the brave"; until he was mortally wounded
in a night attack, while crossing the Po after Millesimo, he continued his brilliant career,
and would have gone far had he been spared. Sérurier was a veteran of the Seven Years' War
and of Portugal, already fifty-four years old. Able and trustworthy, he was loaded with favors
by Napoleon and survived until 1819. It might have been very easy to exasperate such men. But
what the commander-in-chief had to do was done with such smoothness and skill that even they
could find no ground for carping; and though at first cold and reticent, before long they yielded
to the influences which filled with excitement the very air they breathed.

At this moment, besides the National Guard, France had an army, and in some sense a navy: of
both the effective fighting force numbered upward of half a million. Divided nominally into
nine armies, instead of fourteen as first planned, there were in reality but seven; of these,
four were of minor importance: a small, skeleton Army of the Interior, a force in the west
under Hoche twice as large and with ranks better filled, a fairly strong army in the north
under Macdonald, and a similar one in the Alps under Kellermann, with Berthier and Vaubois
as lieutenants, which soon became a part of Bonaparte's force. These were, if possible, to
preserve internal order and to watch England, while three great active organizations were to
combine for the overthrow of Austria. On the Rhine were two of the active armies--one near
Düsseldorf under Jourdan, another near Strasburg under Moreau. Macdonald was of Scottish Jacobite
descent, a French royalist converted to republicanism by his marriage. He was now thirty-one
years old. Trained in the regiment of Dillon, he alone of its officers remained true to democratic
principles on the outbreak of the Revolution. He was made a colonel for his bravery at Jemmapes,
and for his loyalty when Dumouriez went over to the Austrians he was promoted to be general
of brigade. For his services under Pichegru in Holland he had been further rewarded by promotion,
and after the peace of Campo Formio was transferred from the Rhine to Italy. He was throughout
a loyal friend of Bonaparte and received the highest honors. Kellermann was a Bavarian, and
when associated with Bonaparte a veteran, sixty-one years old. He had seen service in the Seven
Years' War and again in Poland during 1771. An ardent republican, he had served with distinction
from the beginning of the revolutionary wars: though twice charged with incapacity, he was
triumphantly acquitted. He linked his fortunes to those of Bonaparte without jealousy and reaped
abundant laurels. Of Berthier and the other great generals we have already spoken. Vaubois
reached no distinction. At the portals of Italy was Bonaparte, with a third army, soon to be
the most active of all. At the outset he had, all told, about forty-five thousand men; but
the campaign which he conducted had before its close assumed such dimensions that in spite
of its losses the Army of Italy contained nearly double that number of men ready for the field,
besides the garrison troops and invalids. The figures on the records of the war department
were invariably much greater; but an enormous percentage, sometimes as high as a third, was
always in the hospitals, while often as many as twenty thousand were left behind to hold various
fortresses. Bonaparte, for evident reasons, uniformly represented his effective force as smaller
than it was, and stunned the ears of the Directory with ever reiterated demands for reinforcement.
A dispassionate estimate would fix the number of his troops in the field at any one time during
these operations as not lower than thirty-five thousand nor much higher than eighty thousand.

Another element of the utmost importance entered into the coming campaign. The old vicious
system by which a vigilant democracy had jealously prescribed to its generals every step to
be taken was swept away by Bonaparte, who as Robespierre's "man" had been thoroughly familiar
with its workings from the other end. He was now commander-in-chief, and he insisted on the
absolute unity of command as essential to the economy of time. This being granted, his equipment
was complete. It will be remembered that in 1794 he had explained to his patrons how warfare
in the field was like a siege: by directing all one's force to a single point a breach might
be made, and the equilibrium of opposition destroyed. To this conception of concentration for
attack he had, in concert with the Directory, added another, that of expansion in a given territory
for sustenance. He had still a third, that war must be made as intense and awful as possible
in order to make it short, and thus to diminish its horrors. Trite and simple as these aphorisms
now appear, they were all original and absolutely new, at least in the quick, fierce application
of them made by Bonaparte. The traditions of chivalry, the incessant warfare of two centuries
and a half, the humane conceptions of the Church, the regard for human life, the difficulty
of communications, the scarcity of munitions and arms,--all these and other elements had combined
to make war under mediocre generals a stately ceremonial, and to diminish the number of actual
battles, which took place, when they did, only after careful preparation, as an unpleasant
necessity, by a sort of common agreement, and with the ceremony of a duel.

Turenne, Marlborough, and Frederick, all men of cold-blooded temperament, had been the greatest
generals of their respective ages, and were successful much in proportion to their lack of
sentiment and disregard of conventionalities. Their notions and their conduct displayed the
same instincts as those of Bonaparte, and their minds were enlarged by a study of great campaigns
like that which had fed his inchoate genius and had made possible his consummate achievement.
He had much the same apparatus for warfare as they. The men of Europe had not materially changed
in stature, weight, education, or morals since the closing years of the Thirty Years' War.
The roads were somewhat better, the conformation of mountains, hills, and valleys was better
known, and like his great predecessors, though unlike his contemporaries, Bonaparte knew the
use of a map; but in the main little was changed in the conditions for moving and manoeuvering
troops. News traveled slowly, the semaphore telegraph was but slowly coming into use, and the
fastest couriers rode from Nice to Paris or from Paris to Berlin in seven days. Firearms of
every description were little improved: Prussia actually claimed that she had been forced to
negotiate for peace because France controlled the production of gun-flints. The forging of
cannon was finer, and the artillery arm was on the whole more efficient. In France there had
been considerable change for the better in the manual and in tactics; the rest of Europe followed
the old and more formal ways. Outside the republic, ceremony still held sway in court and camp;
youthful energy was stifled in routine; and the generals opposed to Bonaparte were for the
most part men advanced in years, wedded to tradition, and incapable of quickly adapting their
ideas to meet advances and attacks based on conceptions radically different from their own.
It was at times a positive misery to the new conqueror that his opponents were such inefficient
fossils. Young and at the same time capable; using the natural advantages of his territory
to support the bravery of his troops; with a mind which was not only accurate and decisive,
but comprehensive in its observations; unhampered by control or by principle; opposed to generals
who could not think of a boy of twenty-six as their equal; with the best army and the finest
theater of war in Europe; finally, with a genius independently developed, and with conceptions
of his profession which summarized the experience of his greatest predecessors, Bonaparte performed
feats that seemed miraculous even when compared with those of Hoche, Jourdan, or Moreau, which
had already so astounded the world.

Within eleven days the Austrians and Sardinians were separated, the latter having been defeated
and forced to sign an armistice. After a rest of two days, a fortnight saw him victorious in
Lombardy, and entering Milan as a conqueror. Two weeks elapsed, and again he set forth to reduce
to his sway in less than a month the most of central Italy. Against an enemy now desperate
and at bay his operations fell into four divisions, each resulting in an advance--the first,
of nine days, against Wurmser and Quasdanowich; the second, of sixteen days, against Wurmser;
the third, of twelve days, against Alvinczy; and the fourth, of thirty days, until he captured
Mantua and opened the mountain passes to his army. Within fifteen days after beginning hostilities
against the Pope, he forced him to sign the treaty of Tolentino; and within thirty-six days
of their setting foot on the road from Mantua to Vienna, the French were at Leoben, distant
only ninety miles from the Austrian capital, and dictating terms to the Empire. In the year
between March twenty-seventh, 1796, and April seventh, 1797, Bonaparte humbled the most haughty
dynasty in Europe, toppled the central European state system, and initiated the process which
has given a predominance apparently final to Prussia, then considered but as a parvenu.

It is impossible to estimate the enormous sums of money which he exacted for the conduct of
a war that he chose to say was carried on to emancipate Italy. The soldiers of his army were
well clad, well fed, and well equipped from the day of their entry into Milan; the arrears
of their pay were not only settled, but they were given license to prey on the country until
a point was reached which seemed to jeopardize success, when common pillage was promptly stopped
by the severest examples. The treasury of the Directory was not filled as were those of the
conquering officers, but it was no longer empty. In short, France reached the apex of her revolutionary
greatness; and as she was now the foremost power on the Continent, the shaky monarchies in
neighboring lands were forced to consider again questions which in 1795 they had hoped were
settled. As Bonaparte foresaw, the destinies of Europe had indeed hung on the fate of Italy.

Europe had grown accustomed to military surprises in the few preceding years. The armies of
the French republic, fired by devotion to their principles and their nation, had accomplished
marvels. But nothing in the least foreshadowing this had been wrought even by them. Then, as
now, curiosity was inflamed, and the most careful study was expended in analyzing the process
by which such miracles had been performed. The investigators and their readers were so overpowered
by the spectacle and its results that they were prevented by a sort of awe-stricken credulity
from recognizing the truth; and even yet the notion of a supernatural influence fighting on
Bonaparte's side has not entirely disappeared. But the facts as we know them reveal cleverness
dealing with incapacity, energy such as had not yet been seen fighting with languor, an embodied
principle of great vitality warring with a lifeless, vanishing system. The consequences were
startling, but logical; the details sound like a romance from the land of Eblis.

CHAPTER XXVII.

The Conquest of Piedmont and the Milanese[67].

              [Footnote 67: The latest important authorities on this
              campaign and its results are, in addition to those
              already given, Sargent: Napoleon Bonaparte's First
              Campaign. Sorel: Bonaparte et Hoche en 1797. Bonaparte
              et le Directoire, Vol. V of his large work. Colin:
              Études sur la Campagne de 1796 en Italie. Fabry:
              Histoire de l'armée d'Italie, 1796-1797. Bouvier:
              Bonaparte en Italie, 1796. Graham's Despatches, edited
              by Rose, in English Historical Review, Vol. XIV.
              Tivaroni: Storia del risorgimento italiano. The Dropmore
              Papers. Of primary value are Napoleon's "Correspondance,"
              official edition, and the unofficial edited by Beauvais.
              Hueffer: Ungedruckte Briefe Napoleon's in the Archiv für
              Oest. Geschichte, Vol. XLIX. Of value are also the
              memoirs of Marmont, Masséna, and Desgenettes, of
              Landrieux in Revue du Cercle Militaire, 1887. Yorck von
              Wartenberg: Napoleon als Feldherr, almost supersedes the
              older authority of Clausewitz, Jomini, Ruestow, and
              Lossau. There are also Malachowski: Entwickelung der
              leitenden Gedanken zur ersten Campagne Bonaparte's, and
              Delbrueck: Unterschied der Strategie Friederich's des
              Grossen und Napoleon's.]

     The Armies of Austria and Sardinia -- Montenotte and
     Millesimo -- Mondovi and Cherasco -- Consequences of the
     Campaign -- The Plains of Lombardy -- The Crossing of the Po
     -- Advance Toward Milan -- Lodi -- Retreat of the Austrians
     -- Moral Effects of Lodi.

[Sidenote: 1796.]

Victor Amadeus of Sardinia was not unaccustomed to the loss of territory in the north, because
from immemorial times his house had relinquished picturesque but unfruitful lands beyond the
Alps to gain fertile fields below them. It was a hard blow, to be sure, that Savoy, which gave
name to his family, and Nice, with its beautiful and commanding site, should have been lost
to his crown. But so far, in every general European convulsion, some substantial morsels had
fallen to the lot of his predecessors, who had looked on Italy "as an artichoke to be eaten
leaf by leaf"; and it was probable that a slice of Lombardy would be his own prize at the next
pacification. He had spent his reign in strengthening his army, and as the foremost military
power in Italy his young and vigorous people, with the help of Austria, were defending the
passes into their territory. The road from their capital to Savona on the sea wound by Ceva
and Millesimo over the main ridge of the Apennines, at the summit of which it was joined by
the highway through Dego and Cairo leading southwestward from Milan through Alessandria. The
Piedmontese, under Colli, were guarding the approach to their own capital; the Austrians, under
Beaulieu, that to Milan. Collectively their numbers were somewhat greater than those of the
French; but the two armies were separated.

Beaulieu began operations on April tenth by ordering an attack on the French division of Laharpe,
which had been thrown forward to Voltri. The Austrians under Argenteau were to fall on its
rear from Montenotte, a village to the north of Savona, with the idea of driving that wing
of Bonaparte's army back along the shore road, on which it was hoped they would fall under
the fire of Nelson's guns. Laharpe, however, retreated to Savona in perfect safety, for the
English fleet was not near. Thereupon Bonaparte, suddenly revealing the new formation of his
army in the north and south line, assumed the offensive. Argenteau, having been held temporarily
in check by the desperate resistance of a handful of French soldiers under Colonel Rampon,
was surprised and overwhelmed at Montenotte on the twelfth by a force much larger than his
own. Next day Masséna and Augereau drove back toward Dego an Austrian division which had reached
Millesimo on its way to join Colli; and on the fifteenth, at that place, Bonaparte himself
destroyed the remnant of Argenteau's corps. On the sixteenth Beaulieu abandoned the mountains
to make a stand at Acqui in the plain. Thus the whole Austrian force was not only driven back,
but was entirely separated from the Piedmontese.

Bonaparte had a foolish plan in his pocket, which had been furnished by the Directory in a
temporary reversion to official tradition, ordering him to advance into Lombardy, leaving behind
the hostile Piedmontese on his left, and the uncertain Genoese on his right. He disregarded
it, apparently without hesitation, and throwing his force northwestward toward Ceva, where
the Piedmontese were posted, terrified them into a retreat. They were overtaken, however, at
Mondovi on April twenty-second, and utterly routed, losing not only their best troops, but
their field-pieces and baggage-train. Three days later Bonaparte pushed onward and occupied
Cherasco, which was distant from Turin, the Piedmontese capital, but twenty-five miles by a
short, easy, and now open road. On the twenty-seventh the Sardinians, isolated in a mountain
amphitheater, and with no prospect of relief from their discomfited ally, made overtures for
an armistice preliminary to peace. These were readily accepted by Bonaparte; and although he
had no authorization from the government to perform such functions, he was defiantly careless
of instructions in this as in every subsequent step he took. The negotiation was conducted
with courtesy and firmness, on the basis of military honor, much to the surprise of the Piedmontese,
who had expected to deal with a savage Jacobin. There was not even a word in Bonaparte's talk
which recalled the republican severity; as has been noted, the word virtue did not pass his
lips, his language was that of chivalry. He stipulated in kindly phrase for the surrender of
Coni and Tortona, the famous "keys of the Alps," with other strongholds of minor importance,
demanding also the right to cross and recross Piedmontese territory at will. The paper was
completed and signed on the twenty-eighth. The troublesome question of civil authority to make
a treaty was evaded by calling the arrangement a military convention. It was none the less
binding by reason of its name. Indeed the idea was steadily expanded into a new policy, for
just as pillage and rapine were ruthlessly repressed by the victorious commander, all agreements
were made temporarily on a military basis, including those for indemnities. Salicetti was the
commissioner of the Directory and there was no friction between him and Bonaparte. Both profited
by a partnership in which opportunities for personal ventures were frequent, while the military
chest was well supplied and remittances to Paris were kept just large enough to save the face
and quiet the clamors of the Directory. Victor Amadeus being checkmated, Bonaparte was free
to deal with Beaulieu.

This short campaign was in some respects insignificant, especially when compared as to numbers
and results with what was to follow. But the names of Montenotte, Millesimo, Dego, Mondovi,
and Cherasco were ever dear to Bonaparte, and stand in a high place on his greatest monument.
The King of Sardinia was the father-in-law of Louis XVIII, and his court had been a nest of
plotting French emigrants. When his agents reached Paris they were received with coarse resentment
by the Directory and bullied into an alliance, though they had been instructed to make only
a peace. Their sovereign was humiliated to the limit of possibility. The loss of his fortress
robbed him of his power. By the terms of the treaty he was to banish the French royalists from
his lands. Stripped thus of both force and prestige, he did not long survive the disgrace,
and died, leaving to Charles Emmanuel, his son, no real dominion but that over the island of
Sardinia. The contrast between the ferocious bluster of the Directory and the generous simplicity
of a great conqueror was not lost on the Italians nor on the moderate French. For them as for
Bonaparte, a military and political aspirant in his first independence, everything, absolutely
everything, was at stake in those earliest engagements; on the event hung not merely his career,
but their release. In pleasant succession the spring days passed like a transformation scene.
Success was in the air, not the success of accident, but the resultant of forethought and careful
combination. The generals, infected by their leader's spirit, vied with each other in daring
and gallantry. For happy desperation Rampon's famous stand remains unsurpassed in the annals
of war.

From the heights of Ceva the leader of conquering and now devoted soldiers could show to them
and their equally enthusiastic officers the gateway into the fertile and well-watered land
whither he had promised to lead them, the historic fields of Lombardy. Nothing comparable to
that inexhaustible storehouse of nature can be found in France, generous as is her soil. Walled
in on the north and west by the majestic masses of the Alps, and to the south by the smaller
but still mighty bastions of the Apennines, these plains owe to the mountains not only their
fertility and prosperity, but their very existence. Numberless rills which rise amid the icy
summits of the great chain, or the lower peaks of the minor one, combine into ever growing
streams of pleasant waters which finally unite in the sluggish but impressive Po. Melting snows
and torrential rains fill these watercourses with the rich detritus of the hills which renews
from year to year the soil it originally created. A genial climate and a grateful soil return
to the industrious inhabitants an ample reward for their labors. In the fiercest heats of summer
the passing traveler, if he pauses, will hear the soft sounds of slow-running waters in the
irrigation sluices which on every side supply any lack of rain. Wheat, barley, and rice, maize,
fruit, and wine, are but a few of the staples. Great farmsteads, with barns whose mighty lofts
and groaning mows attest the importance of Lombard agriculture, are grouped into the hamlets
which abound at the shortest intervals. And to the vision of one who sees them first from a
mountain-top through the dim haze of a sunny day, towns and cities seem strewn as if they were
grain from the hand of a sower. The measure of bewilderment is full when memory recalls that
this garden of Italy has been the prize for which from remotest antiquity the nations of Europe
have fought, and that the record of the ages is indelibly written in the walls and ornaments
of the myriad structures--theaters, palaces, and churches--which lie so quietly below. Surely
the dullest sansculotte in Bonaparte's army must have been aroused to new sensations by the
sight. What rosy visions took shape in the mind of their leader we can only imagine.

Piedmont having submitted, the promised descent into these rich plains was not an instant deferred.
"Hannibal," said the commanding general to his staff, "took the Alps by storm. We have turned
their flank." He paused only to announce his feats to the Directory in modest phrase, and to
recommend for preferment those who, like Lannes and Lanusse, had earned distinction. The former
was just Bonaparte's age but destitute of solid education, owing to the poverty of his parents.
He enlisted in 1792 and in 1795 was already a colonel, owing to his extraordinary inborn courage
and capacity. Through the hatred of a Convention legate he was degraded from his rank after
the peace of Basel and entered Bonaparte's army as a volunteer. Thereafter his promotion was
fast and regular until he became the general's close friend and steadfast supporter. Lanusse
was only twenty-four but had been chief of battalion for four years, and now entered upon a
brilliant though short career which ended by his death in 1801 at Aboukir. The advance of Bonaparte's
army began on May thirtieth. Neither Genoa, Tuscany, nor Venice was to be given time for arming;
Beaulieu must be met while his men were still dispirited, and before the arrival of reinforcements:
for a great army of thirty thousand men was immediately to be despatched under Wurmser to maintain
the power of Austria in Italy. Beaulieu was a typical Austrian general, seventy-one years old,
but still hale, a stickler for precedent, and looking to experience as his only guide. Relying
on the principles of strategy as he had learned them, he had taken up what he considered a
strong position for the defense of Milan, his line stretching northeasterly beyond the Ticino
from Valenza, the spot where rumors, diligently spread by Bonaparte, declared that the French
would attempt to force a passage. Confirmed in his own judgment by those reports, the old and
wary Austrian commander stood brave and expectant, while the young and daring adventurer opposed
to him marched swiftly by on the right bank fifty miles onward to Piacenza. There he made his
crossing on May seventh in common ferry-boats and by a pontoon bridge. No resistance was made
by the few Austrian cavalry who had been sent out merely to reconnoiter the line. The enemy
were outwitted and virtually outflanked, being now in the greatest danger. Beaulieu had barely
time to break camp and march in hot haste northeasterly to Lodi, where, behind the swift current
of the Adda, he made a final stand for the defense of Milan, the seat of Austrian government.
In fact, his movements were so hurried that the advance-guards of both armies met by accident
at Fombio on May eighth, where a sharp engagement resulted in a victory for the French. Laharpe,
who had shown his usual courage in this fight, was killed a few hours later, through a mistake
of his own soldiers, in a night mêlée with the pickets of a second Austrian corps. On the ninth
the dukes of Parma and of Piacenza both made their submission in treaties dictated by the French
commander, and simultaneously the reigning archduke quitted Milan. Next day the pursuing army
was at Lodi.

Bonaparte wrote to the Directory that he had expected the passage of the Po would prove the
most bold and difficult manoeuver of the campaign. But it was no sooner accomplished than he
again showed a perfect mastery of his art by so manoeuvering as to avoid an engagement while
the great river was still immediately in his rear. He was then summoned to meet a third emergency
of equal consequence. The Adda is fordable in some places at certain times, but not easily;
and at Lodi a wooden bridge about two hundred yards in length then occupied the site of the
later solid structure of masonry and iron. The approach to this bridge Beaulieu had seized
and fortified. Northwestward was Milan; to the east lay the almost impregnable fortress of
Mantua. Beaten at Lodi, the Austrians might still retreat, and make a stand under the walls
of either town with some hope of victory: it was Bonaparte's intention so to disorganize his
enemy's army that neither would be possible. Accordingly on May tenth the French forces were
concentrated for the advance. They started immediately and marched so swiftly that they overtook
the Austrian rear-guard before it could withdraw behind the old Gothic walls of the town, and
close the gates. Driving them onward, the French fought as they marched. A decisive conflict
cleared the streets; and after a stubborn resistance the brave defenders retreated over the
bridge to the eastern bank of what was now their last rampart, the river. With cool and desperate
courage, Sebottendorf, whose Austrians numbered less than ten thousand men, then brought into
action his artillery, and swept the wooden roadway.

In a short time the bridge would no doubt have been in flames; it was uncertain whether the
shifting and gravelly bottom of the stream above or below would either yield a ford or permit
a crossing by any other means. Under Bonaparte's personal supervision, and therefore with miraculous
speed, the French batteries were placed and began an answering thunder. In an access of personal
zeal, the commander even threw himself for an instant into the whirling hail of shot and bullets,
in order the better to aim two guns which in the hurry had been misdirected. Under this terrible
fire and counterfire it was impossible for the Austrians to apply a torch to any portion of
the structure. Behind the French guns were three thousand grenadiers waiting for a signal.
Soon the crisis came. A troop of Bonaparte's cavalry had found the nearest ford a few hundred
yards above the bridge, and were seen, amid the smoke, struggling to cross, though without
avail, and turn the right flank of the Austrian infantry, which had been posted a safe distance
behind the artillery on the opposite shore. Quick as thought, in the very nick of opportunity,
the general issued his command, and the grenadiers dashed for the bridge. Eye-witnesses declared
that the fire of the Austrian artillery was now redoubled, while from houses on the opposite
side soldiers hitherto concealed poured volley after volley of musket-balls upon the advancing
column. For one single fateful moment it faltered. Berthier and Masséna, with others equally
devoted, rushed to its head, and rallied the lines. In a few moments the deed was accomplished,
the bridge was won, the batteries were silenced, and the enemy was in full retreat.

Scattered, stunned, and terrified, the disheartened Austrians felt that no human power could
prevail against such a foe. Beaulieu could make no further stand behind the Adda; but, retreating
beyond the Oglio to the Mincio, a parallel tributary of the Po, he violated Venetian neutrality
by seizing Peschiera, where that stream flows out of Lake Garda, and spread his line behind
the river from the Venetian town on the north as far as Mantua, the farthest southern outpost
of Austria, thus thwarting one, and that not the least important, of Bonaparte's plans. As
to the Italians, they seemed bereft of sense, and for the most part yielded dumbly to what
was required. There were occasional outbursts of enthusiasm by Italian Jacobins, and in the
confusion of warfare they wreaked a sneaking vengeance on their conservative compatriots by
extortion and terrorizing. The population was confused between the woe of actual loss and the
joy of emancipation from old tyrannies. Suspicious and adroit, yet slow and self-indulgent,
the common folk concluded that the grievous burden of the hour would be lightened by magnanimity
and held a waiting attitude.

