I steered my bronco up the hill and started over the trap line. I had not gone far when I heard
the jingleing of a trap chain; and the growl of a bear. I hastily dismounted, drew my rifle
and advanced in the direction of the noise. Emerging from a clump of brush I stood face to
face within forty five feet of a good old grizzley which weighed 1,400, pounds. He dropped
upon his haunches and looked straight at me. I pulled my gun drew a careful aim at the only
place to shoot a Grizzley between the eye and ear; fired, he fell and quivered, I thought him
dead as a mummy and I set down my gun and went up took the clamps and removed the trap and
just then old bruin rooled over and quick as a wink hit me a spat in the face that knocked
me two or three summersaults broke in my left cheek and knocked out four teeth and cut my tongue
half off. I struck the ground like a flying squirrel feet first: and after a moment of time
to get my bearings I faced the music; the old dog arose and made for me like a mad bull. I
quickly pulled my old sixshooter and began to pump lead into him at the rate of about an ounce
a second. Bruin seemed to take his pills with comparative ease, when my shells was exhausted
he was still coming--What remained for me to do--I drew my hunting knife and climbed him like
a monkey on a cheese. This was foolish and dangerous for I got a bite while bruin nearly got
a belly full, I cut him deeply in the lungs but he nearly with one sweep of his old paw tore
out my whole inwards. he cut me deep from three inches below the chin clean down to the abdomen.
He wore his nails uncomfortably long and had a great spread to his claws. I then knew something
must be doing or I would be done for. I made a desperate effort to secure my gun which was
loaded. bruin seemed to tumble what I was up to and pressed hard, however with but one blow
in the left side and another on my hip to his credit. I caught the big gun it was a 49-90--and
struck thirty two hundred pounds, I swung it around within three feet of the star in his breast
pulled the trigger--and the steel capped ball bored a hole through the old hog big as an alarm
clock. The fight was over, I feel with bruin I wakened five days later in a lath and plastered
room with my son and both partners working over me. I was much surprised when they told me
I had enjoyed the tussle five days before. I could not talk my tongue was fastened up so it
might heal, I was all bandages and plaster paris I layed here seven weeks, then the boys carried
me back to camp where I gave orders and gradually recuperated. I never recovered from the blow
on my hip it will bother me till the end. However there is no great loss without some small
gain--this lame spot always serves me as a borometer.

I also received another benefit I had some silver deposited in my face to straight up my sunken
cheek. hence am never busted. I have been in several bad rows with both four-footed beasts
and two footed beasts, but this was at least as lively a scrap as I ever got into. and all
because I was careless. We lifted camp early in March sold our fur and the whole of us went
down to 'Frisco to see the sights. Here we studied the history of China in the faces of the
moon-eyed heathens, enjoyed the curious haunts of humanity the entire summer.

That fall I hired Old Ed Scott, Bert Terrell, Jack Troy and ferd Gotch. Myself and the Kid
made up and we calculated quite a decent gang. I think we were by far the largest and best
gang in the west.

I had four hired men, Eleven head of horses, two wagons, four tents, Six riding saddles, four
pack saddles, twenty four guns and revolvers, six hundred steel traps and cooking utensels
enough for a dozen men. My expenses were a thousand dollars a month--Our chief game was rat,
mink, otter, coyotes, and grey wolves, we marched up North Platte to Raw-hide creek--and set
traps for fur--We moved once a week and averaged to take about one hundred and sixty pelts a day.

When we reached the Raw-hide about fifteen miles from North Platte river in Lormey Co. I caught
a monstrous grey wolf in a trap. I knew the virtue of the trap it was a New-House noumber four.
I was armed with a 49-90 winchester but refrained from shooting him because the ball tore too
big a hole in the hide. I attempted to knock him in the head with my hatchet, I saw I had a
good high holt on him so I stepped up closer to him--when the darn skunk made a leap at my
windsucker; the trap chain broke and he lit on my left arm and got busy eating meat. My gun
was johnie on the spot, for several days I carried my arm in a buckskin sack meanwhile I concluded
I would shoot game not trying other experiences.

After a few days we reached Hat creek, where we were told that a Sheep herder had been driven
into camp by a silver tipped Grizzley. The ranchmen wanted us to camp till we killed the old
boss. So I detailed Ed Scott and a new man I had recently hired by the name of Charley Whippel
to go with me--and I left the rest to run trap lines and watch things. We rode out toward the
Cheyenne river. Just as we reached Cow creek and crossed over and was about twenty rods up
the slope we heard a bear; we stopped and suddenly old silver as free as Bryans Silver issue;
descending the hill in our direction. We all opened fire at once and spoiled his fun to quick
to mention. We secured his skin head and all including his tailbone and paws the ranchmen sent
it to Denver to a Texiderment and he sold it to the Chicago Public Musium. We broke camp the
following day and started for Beaver creek here we made three settings, then we broke again
and moved to the head of the Belle Fourche river. trapping coyote and wolf. from there to powder
river, and then on to tongue river. We broke camp that spring at Dayton, Wyoming; and for novelty
hired out to herd cattle for the U.X. Cattle Co. We rode here on the general roundup, quit
our job and set out for the Big horn basin. Crossing the main range of the Big horn mountains
we went up Canon Creek looking for trapping for another season. We followed down the creek
till we reached Big horn river; then we swung around and followed up the Bighorn to the end.

We had quite a serious time getting our pack horses over the Owl-creek mountains. We now turned
our course a trifle and struck for the head of the big sandy, then followed this stream till
we reached Green river Then rode across to the Yampah river.

While riding down the Yampah we were accosted by two men who wanted us to hire out to help
them round up several hundred wild horses. We had never before rode on a horse ranch and we
wished to be full fledged so we consented. We had a lively time. The Kid was lighter and more
supple than I; and got out of it some easier than I. I had picked out a rangey lank bronco;
he would quit the earth and climb the sky like a flying machine; and drop down and strike the
rocks with his legs stiff as a post. He would then spin like a top several hundred times play
razor back and sun-fish, His head and tail would touch one instant between his legs; and the
next instant over his back. I held my breath while he exercised all his tricks then he plunged
off while I pounded him with my broad brimmed sombrero. The foreman said Erve Bullard could
not play glue much better than I. We had many daring and pleasing episodes this season roping
horses busting and branding.

We quit riding early that summer and spent some time traveling. I visited the grave of Calamity
Jane. Wild Bills Wife; and His grave too. Went to the Little bighorn to Custers Tomb. Over
to Nothfield Minn. where the Youngers were correlled. Down to Scouts Rest Ranch--Or Codys Ranch.
over to Cheyenne to Old Tom Horns Rope Party. And saw Bob of Austrailia put it all over Jim
Corbett. I went to Denver to hear Frank James talk, and several other things we enjoyed before
Christmas.

The following winter We raked up our old gang got together and went up to Snake River. here
we began tramp trapping. Part of us advanced and the other party followed and took up our traps.
this tramp trapping lasted nearly all winter we trapped the Snake river, Green river San Juan
river the little Colorado and the Big Colorado up to Grand Canon. Then we followed up the river
to Cataract creek and in trying to cross lost two rattling good pack-horses pack and all. We
then were short of rations and struck out for the Red mountain country: hoping to get more
chuck. In this dash we nearly all lost our lives by starvation: after many days we reached
the town of Aubay Arizonia.

We then loaded our kit and took the Train for Los Angeles California and from there we went
back to Denver Colorado. then up the Big Platte near the Lormic Mountains. We built a headquarters
camp at The medicine bow and two offsets at Camp creek, near the Medicine Bow Reservation.
Here we had the best systematized settings we had heretofore set. We had set a line of traps
in a semicircle from camp to camp; And a stub line up each creek about four miles; then we
set a high-line running in oposite directions. So you see we bagged everything that came through
the country for several miles wide. Our traps served as does a wing-net catching on the sides
and swinging everything into the center. An animal that smelled a trap would sheer off and
nine times out of ten would go the way we wanted it, for we set our traps giving that peculiar
specie the favorable road toward other traps which were set, and the scent so completely killed
with compounds would usually get the game. We generaly cleaned out almost everything as we
went allong. Now the highlines were for land animals, such as Coyotes, Wolves, Lion, marten
and skunk.

The next autumn came and we were in fine spirits. We all came back to our old camps on the
North Platte. The weather was lovely The cottonwood leaves were turning brown and in the height
of my glory I roped out my favorite horse saddled up and started for the Lormie Mountains.
I was hungry for deer, and plenty of them roamed in that vacinity. As I was riding allong the
foot hills my horse suddenly shyed off as if scared; i gathered up in the saddle and peeked
over some sage brush and behold there was Old Ephraim in the form of a monster silver tip.
The old elephant arose on his feet as big as Goliah and roared out his challenge to me. I drew
aim hastily and fired a five hundred grain ball through his chest. this was just an eye-opener
for his class. My horse at the crack of the gun leaped and fled down the hill in spite of all
my protest; you should have seen the horse put distance between us and the bear. I finally
got the horse stopped I dismounted and hurried back to the scene. The bear had followed us
quite a ways and was under a cottonwood licking his wound He did not see me till I fired so
I had a good chance to pick my spot and I sent another ball one journey crashing through his
shoulders; this brought him to the ground helpless; and I approached and finished up his hash.

There are four distinct species of Grizzlies. And are more or less sprinkled throughout The
rocky mountains in Mexico, U.S. and British Columbia. The Silver tipp. Bald face, The great
Grizzly and the Kodiak Grizzly. The silver tipp scarcely ever has more than one cub and lives
on roots and grass, when he cannot get meat. The great Grizzley loves colts and sheep, they
cannot get a deer for the reason that they smell so fowl that a deer can smell them too far.
The bald face is much like a great Grizzley only smaller and more alert. The Kodiak Grizzly,
lives further north than any of the rest and is at least as big and twice as agressive as the
other kind. They inhabit the wilderness from B.C. To Gnome Alaska. All of these bear are bold
and genuine bluffers. they never snoop. they depend upon their size and name to carry them
through. seldom do hunters kill them untill they have emptied tha last load.

I then went back to my horse--or; to where I left him; but he had given me the French leave--I
had tied him;--as Cow-punchers say--"To the ground." And he had taken advantage of his liberty,
and ran into camp ten miles away. I had on high heel boots; and they walk bad--considerable
worse than they look,--so the road was a long one.

After while we broke camp and went up the medicine bow river; to the North Platte; and here
set our traps. Now we have what we call the low-lines--and the high-lines. The lowlines we
set on low wet soil for water animals. To give you an idea how much work is implied in setting
such a mass of traps as we carried I will describe a bout how far apart we had learned to set
traps. Where rat are thick one hundred might be set in a single mile. Where mink are thick
not over sixteen should be set per mile. Where coon are thick about twenty per mile. Where
beaver are thick about forty per mile and where otter are thick about ten traps per mile. The
Muskrat--is the most interesting of all animals that live in water. The beaver Black, Blue,
Brown, White, Gray not excepted.

The Rat lives on flags and water mussels. He never kills small ducks as has been stated by
some folks who never saw one. The Rat builds his house out of rushes from five to six feet
broad sometimes much broader, and about three feet high. About a dozen rats live in a house.
Their bed is from two six inches from the surface. They have feeding rooms in the house, and
feed on the walls of the rooms, eventually eating the house up which is often the case in cold
climates. They also have a bank hole in addition to the house hole. When frightened they go
to the bank hole. They also have air holes covered very cunningly two or three inches deep
on the way to the bank and water. These air-holes are overlaid loosely with flags and other
light materials.

