They would come about four o'clock to find out what time the doughnuts would be ready for serving,
and the girls usually said six o'clock so that they would be able to fry enough to supply all
the regiment. But the men would start to line up at half-past four, knowing that they could
not be served until six, so eager were they for these delicacies. When six o'clock came each
man would get three doughnuts and a cup of delicious coffee or chocolate. A great many doughnut
cutters were worn out as the days went by and the boys frequently had to get a new cutter made.
Sometimes they would take the top of quite a large-sized can or anything tin that they could
lay hands on from which to make it. One boy found the top of an extra large sized baking powder
tin and took it to have a smaller cutter soldered in the centre. Sometimes they used the top
of the shaving soap box for this. When he got back to the hut the cook exclaimed in dismay:
"Why, but it's too big!"

"Oh, that's all right," said the doughboy nonchalantly.

"That'll be all the better for us. We'll get more doughnut. You always give us three anyway,
you know. The size don't count."

They were always scheming to get more pie and more doughnuts and would stand in line for hours
for a second helping. One day the Salvation Army woman grew indignant over a noticeably red-headed
boy who had had three helpings and was lining up for a fourth. She stood majestically at the
head of the line and pointed straight at him: "You! With the red head down there! Get out of
the line!"

"She's got my number all right!" said the red-headed one, grinning sheepishly as he dropped back.

The town of Raulecourt was often shelled, but one morning just before daybreak the enemy started
in to shell it in earnest. Word came that the girls had better leave as it was very dangerous
to remain, but the girls thought otherwise and refused to leave. One might have thought they
considered that they were real soldiers, and the fate of the day depended upon them. And perhaps
more depended upon them than they knew. However that was they stayed, having been through such
experiences before. For the older woman, however, it was a first experience. She took it calmly
enough, going about her business as if she, too, were an old soldier.

On the evening of June 14th they made fudge for the boys who were going to leave that night
for the front lines.

For several hours the tables in the hut were filled with men writing letters to loved ones
at home, and the women and girls had sheets of paper filled with addresses to which they had
promised to write if the boys did not come back.

At last one of the men got up with his finished letter and quietly removed the phonograph and
a few of its devotees who were not going up to the front yet, placing them outside at a safe
distance from the hut. A soldier followed, carrying an armful of records, and the hut was cleared
for the men who were "going in" that night.

