No. 74.] SATURDAY, MARCH 29.      239

  MINOR QUERIES ANSWERED:--Canon and Prebendary--
  What Amount of Property constitutes an Esquire?--
  Cromwell Family--Daughters of the Sixth Earl of
  Lennox--Wife of Joseph Nicholson--Six Abeiles--
  Southey--Epigram against Burke--Knight's Hospitallers       242

  REPLIES:--
  Mesmerism, by Dr. Maitland                                  243
  Lord Howard of Effingham                                    244
  Iovanni Volpe, by William Hughes                            244
  Replies to Minor Queries:--Sir Andrew Chadwick--
  Manuscript of Bede--Closing of Rooms on account
  of Death--Enigmatical Epitaph on Rev. J. Mawer--
  Haybands in Seals--Notes on Newspapers--Duncan
  Campbell--Christmas-day--MS. Sermons by Jeremy
  Taylor--Dryden's Absolom and Achitophel--Rev.
  W. Adams--Duchess of Buckingham--"Go the
  whole Hog"--Lord Bexley's Descent from Cromwell--
  Morse and Ireton Families--The Countess of Desmond--
  Aristophanes on the Modern Stage--Denarius
  Philosophorum--On a Passage in the Tempest--
  Meaning of Waste-book--Arthur's Seat and Salisbury
  Craigs--Meaning of "Harrisers" &c.                          247

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c.                      253
  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                                254
  Notices to Correspondents                                   254
  Advertisements                                              255

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

ON PORTRAITS OF DISTINGUISHED ENGLISHMEN.

In submitting to you the following brief observations, it is neither my wish nor intention
to undervalue or disparage the labours of Horace Walpole, and Granger, and Pennant, and Lodge,
and the numerous writers who have followed in their train, and to whom we are so much indebted
for their notices of a great variety of original portraits of distinguished Englishmen, which
still adorn the mansions of our aristocracy, and are found in the smaller collections throughout
the realm. But I may be permitted to express my surprise and regret that in this age of inquiry
no general catalogue of these national treasures should ever have been published. It is true
that the portraits, as well as the other objects of attraction in our royal palaces, have been
described in print with tolerable accuracy, and some good accounts are to be met with of the
pictures at Woburn, and Blenheim, and Althorpe, and many of the residences of the nobility
which can boast their local historian. We are, however, in most cases obliged to content ourselves
with the meagre information afforded by county topography, or such works as the Beauties of
England, Neale's Country Seats, and unsatisfactory guide-books.

No one, then, can doubt that such a compilation as I am advocating would prove a most welcome
addition to our increasing stock of historical lore, and greatly assist the biographer in those
researches upon which, from no sufficient materials being at hand, too much time is frequently
expended without any adequate result. A catalogue would also tend to the preservation of ancient
portraits, which, by being brought into notice, would acquire more importance in the estimation
of the possessors; and in the event of any old houses falling into decay, the recorded fact
of certain pictures having existed there, would cause them to be inquired after, and rescue
them from destruction. Opportunities would likewise be afforded of correcting misnomers, and
testing the authenticity of reputed likenesses of the same individual; further, the printed
lists would survive after all the family traditions had been forgotten, and passed away with
the antiquated housekeeper, and her worn-out inventory.