BOOKLOVERS, BIBLIOMANIACS

AND

BOOK CLUBS

  Book-Lovers
  Bibliomaniacs

  and

  Book Clubs

By

HENRY·H·HARPER

  Privately Printed
  At The Riverside Press
  Cambridge

  BOSTON
  MDCDIV

COPYRIGHT 1904 BY H. H. HARPER

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

PREFATORY

HAVING been asked to make a few remarks upon Book-loving, Book-buying, and Book Clubs,--not
for publication before the great audience of readers, but for the exclusive use of the members
of a private Book Club,--I venture thus to offer my views, hoping that in the light of my own
personal experience I may be able to give a few useful hints and suggestions to those who may
peruse the pages which follow.

If this little tome, in which are recorded the reflections of one who for many years has mingled
with publishers, booksellers, bibliophiles, collectors, and bibliomaniacs, should prove to
be of any interest or service, and is found worthy of a small space in some sequestered nook
in the library, where it may in silent repose behold its more worthy and resplendent companions,
the fondest ambition of the author will be gratified beyond peradventure.

THE AUTHOR.

BOOKLOVERS, BIBLIOMANIACS

AND

BOOK CLUBS

BOOK-collecting is undeniably one of the most engaging pursuits in which a refined and artistic
taste may be indulged. From the earliest times, and even before the days of printing, this
pleasant diversion has been pursued by persons of moderate means as well as by those of wealth
and distinction, and every succeeding generation of book-collectors has exceeded its predecessors
in numbers and in enthusiasm. The alluring influences of bibliophilism, or book-loving, have
silently crept into thousands of homes, whether beautiful or humble; for the library is properly
regarded as one of the most important features of home as well as mental equipment.

In The House Beautiful William C. Gannett emphasizes the importance of considering the library
as foremost in furnishing a home. He says: "It means admission to the new marvels of science,
if one chooses admission. It means an introduction to the noblest company that all the generations
have produced, if we claim the introduction. Remembering this, how can one help wishing to
furnish his house with some such furniture? A poet for a table piece! A philosopher upon the
shelf! Browning or Emerson for a fireside friend!

"A family's rank in thought and taste can well be gauged by the books and papers that lie upon
the shelf or table of the library."

Not many years ago, Mr. Howard Pyle said: "I sometimes think that we are upon the edge of some
new era in which the art of beautifying books with pictures shall suddenly be uplifted into
a higher and a different plane of excellence; when ornate printed colour and perfect reproduction
shall truly depict the labour of the patient draughtsman who strives so earnestly to beautify
the world in which he lives, and to lend a grace to the living therein." The prophecy is already
fulfilled, and a modern book, in order to win favor among present-day bibliophiles, must embody
an harmonious assimilation of many arts.

The ardor of possessing books, commonly called bibliomania, also styled bibliophilism and "biblio"--whatever
else that has suggested itself to the fruitful imaginations of dozens of felicitous writers
upon the subject,--is described by Dibdin as a "disease which grows with our growth, and strengthens
with our strength." Kings and queens have not been immune from this prevalent though harmless
malady. The vast resources of Henry VII were employed in collecting a library of which a modern
millionaire collector might be justly proud. Many specimens of his magnificent collection,
bearing the royal stamp, are now to be found in the British Museum. Queen Elizabeth and Lady
Jane Grey were submissive victims of the bibliomania. It is worthy of note that while there
were but few women book-collectors in the Elizabethan period, there are at the present time
in our own country almost as many women as there are men engaged in this fascinating pursuit.

It should be remembered, however, that one possessing a fondness for books is not necessarily
a bibliomaniac. There is as much difference between the inclinations and taste of a bibliophile
and a bibliomaniac as between a slight cold and the advanced stages of consumption. Some one
has said that "to call a bibliophile a bibliomaniac is to conduct a lover, languishing for
his maiden's smile, to an asylum for the demented, and to shut him up in the ward for the incurables."
Biblio relates to books, and mania is synonymous with madness, insanity, violent derangement,
mental aberration, etc. A bibliomaniac, therefore, might properly be called an insane or crazy
bibliophile. It is, however, a harmless insanity, and even in its worst stages it injures no
one. Rational treatment may cure a bibliomaniac and bring him (or her) back into the congenial
folds of bibliophilism, unless, perchance, the victim has passed beyond the curative stages
into the vast and dreamy realms of extra-illustrating, or "grangerizing." People usually have
a horror of insane persons, and one might well beware of indulging a taste for books, if there
were any reasonable probability that this would lead to mental derangement. There could be
furniture-maniacs, rug-maniacs, and china-maniacs just as well as book-maniacs, but people
do not generally hesitate to purchase furniture, rugs, and china for fear of going crazy on
the subject, and no more reason is there why rational persons should hesitate to make a collection
of good books for a library, for fear of being called bibliomaniacs.

This is preëminently the age of collectors, and scarcely a week passes without the discovery
of some new dementia in this direction. Only a few days ago I read of a new delirium which
threatens disaster to the feline progeny; it may be called the cat-tail mania, seeing that
its victims possess an insatiable desire for amputating and preserving the caudal appendages
of all the neighborhood cats. A self-confessed member of this cult was recently arrested in
one of the eastern States.

There are several species of bibliophiles; there are many species of bibliomaniacs. Some admire
books for what they contain; others for their beautiful type, hand-made paper, artistic illustrations,
ample margins, untrimmed edges, etc.; and there are others who attach more importance to the
limited number of copies issued than to either the contents or workmanship.

If a book is to attain any considerable commercial value and increase in worth year after year,
it is of first importance that the number of copies issued be actually limited; and the greater
the restriction the more likelihood that the monetary value will be steadily enhanced. But
it must not be forgotten that the mere "limitation" will not of itself create a furore among
judicious book-buyers; the book, or set of books, should rest upon some more secure basis of
valuation than that of scarcity.

The contents, first to be considered, should be worthy of preservation; next in importance
is the selection of appropriate type, and the size and style of page, which should be determined
by the nature of the work and the period in which it was written. The size of the book and
the margins of the page must be carefully considered in order to harmonize with the text-page.
In choosing illustrations it is important to determine whether they should be ornate and illustrative,
or classic and emblematical in design. The paper should be handmade, to order, and of such
correct size as not to lose the deckle edges in cutting; and the printing should be done in
"forms" of not more than eight. The paper should be scientifically moistened before printing,
and the ink allowed several weeks in which to dry before handling the printed sheets. The bindings
should harmonize with interiors, and due care taken against over-decoration of the covers.
These few technical hints will serve to acquaint the book-lover with some at least of the many
important features which must be regarded in the preparation of a fine book,--a book fitted
to demand and merit a place upon the library shelves of discriminating bibliophiles, and as
well increase in demand and price whenever thereafter its copies may "turn up" for sale.

Next in importance, after considering literary and mechanical fitness, and the limitation of
the work, is the question of distribution; its scope, and the class of subscribers. The stock
of a corporation, if limited to a reasonable number of shares and issued only to a few expert
investors of high standing, and for tangible considerations, will obviously be considered a
safer and more attractive investment than if it be scattered indiscriminately among a class
of professional manipulators for stock-jobbing purposes. With such a stock where thus closely
held for investment purposes, an order for a few shares may largely elevate its market value.
But if the stock were issued in unlimited quantities, the monetary value would be entirely
lost. Again, if the stock had no corporeal assets as a basis for its issue, the "limited and
registered" clause could not sustain it in the market.

So it is with books: if the number of copies issued be held within a reasonable constraint,
consistent with the price charged per copy, and if they are subscribed for by book-lovers who
prize them for their literary or historic value and luxurious appearance no less than for pecuniary
values, they are not likely to find their way into the bookstalls, or to be "picked up" in
auction rooms at less than their original price. This condition applies particularly to legitimate
club editions and privately printed editions. If an edition of five hundred copies is widely
distributed throughout the country, it is reasonable to assume that the speculative market
therefor would be less apt to suffer from congestion than if the sale of the whole number of
sets were confined to one locality.

Passing now to those who, in one way or another, are to meet with and handle the completed
book, we may begin with a class of literary barnacles who stick about the libraries of their
friends and of the public institutions, and feed their bibliophilistic appetites on what others
have spent much time and money in collecting. These may perhaps more appropriately be called
biblio-spongers, and are of all ranks in the community, many even owning beautiful homes, and
having ample resources at command; but while enjoying the congenial atmosphere of a well-furnished
library, and the delights of caressing the precious and wisely selected tomes of others, they
are still of such temperaments that they would no more think of buying books than would another
of buying an opera-house in order to satisfy theatre-going propensities. These people should
be taught that fine books, like friends, are not loanable or exchangeable chattels. They will
argue that there is no use spending money for books, because they reside within easy reach
of a public library where such books as they desire are readily obtainable, or perhaps suggest
that "I have free access to my friend Smith's library; he scarcely ever uses it;" without reflecting
that Smith would probably use it more, if his friends used it less. And yet such folk will
still incur the needless expense of providing their own homes with chairs, unless, haply, such
homes may chance to be within convenient reach of some park or public institution where free
seats are provided.

Most of us are disposed to idealize a besotted bibliomaniac as a harmless being whose companionship
and favor are neither to be courted nor particularly avoided,--a sort of shellfish basking
on the bank of life's flow in whatever sunshine it may absorb, and paying little heed to the
thoughts or actions of others.

Mr. Nathan Haskell Dole, President of The Bibliophile Society, aptly describes a miserly bibliomaniac
as a

    Victim of a frenzied passion,
      He is lean and lank and crusty;
    Naught he cares for dress or fashion
      And his rusty coat smells musty;

while in characterizing the natural impulses of true bibliophilism, he says that

    Bibliophiles take pride in showing
      All the gems of their collections;
    They are generous in bestowing,
      They have genuine affections.

Peignot says a bibliomaniac is one who has "a passion for possessing books; not so much to
be instructed by them as to gratify the eye by looking on them." This presumption is about
as reasonable as it would be to say that a man is a monomaniac because he gets married when
he is in no special need of a house-servant, or body-guard.

In his Bibliomania Dibdin enumerates eight symptoms of this "darling passion or insanity,"
in the following order: "A passion for large-paper copies, uncut copies, extra-illustrated
copies, unique copies, copies printed on vellum, first editions, true editions, and black-letter
copies." The presswork and ink are always proportionately better in these copies, and the price
of them is enhanced according to their beauty and rarity. . . . That a volume so published
has a more pleasing aspect cannot be denied." He adds that "this symptom of the bibliomania
is at the present day both general and violent." No wonder! If he could return to this sphere
and behold the enormously increased number of women bibliophiles in our country at the present
time, the subject would doubtless furnish him with a congenial theme for another of his rambling
discourses, this time perhaps under the caption of Bibliowomania. He was far in advance of
the age in which he lived; for although he had very little upon which to base the prediction,
he yet prophesied that not many years would lapse before women would invade the fields of book-collecting
and prove themselves valiant competitors in the market. This, in fact, is now common enough,
and I myself have known of many instances in auction-rooms where a small army of rampant bibliomaniacs
have been obliged to retreat and to abandon their pursuit of some coveted treasure, on finding
it boldly covered by a carte-blanche order from a feminine competitor. Women rarely appear
in the book auction-room, but leave their orders to be executed through a trusted broker, and
many a collector has found himself suddenly obliged to soar aloft to dizzy heights in quest
of some prize, on being thus lifted and pursued by one of the representatives of an unseen
and unknown member of the gentler sex.

Many people suppose the term "uncut," characteristic of Dibdin's second "symptom," to signify
that the leaves of such volume as may be concerned have never been severed, whether for convenience
of reading or otherwise. "Uncut," however, in its technical sense does not imply that the sheets
are folded and bound just as they came from the press. The leaves may all be cut, and the tops
trimmed, and even gilded, without striking terror to the heart of the bibliomaniac. This definition
is vague and unsatisfactory. Mr. Adrian H. Joline (Diversions of a Booklover, Harper & Bros.,
New York, 1903,--a charming book that should be read by every book-fancier) discourses upon
the subject more intelligently; he observes that the word uncut appears to be a stumbling-block
to the unwary, and says: "The casual purchaser is sometimes deceived by it, for he thinks that
it means that the leaves have not been severed by the paper-knife. I have read with much glee
divers indignant letters in the very interesting 'Saturday Review' of one of our best New York
journals, in which the barbarian writers have denounced the uncut, and have assailed in vigorous
but misguided phrases those who prefer to have their books in that condition. Henry Stevens
tells us that even such a famous collector as James Lenox, founder of the splendid library
into whose magnificent mysteries so few of us dare to penetrate, was misled by the word uncut,
and chided Stevens for buying an uncut book whose pages were all open. He says: 'Again when
his tastes had grown into the mysteries of uncut leaves, he returned a very rare, early New
England tract, expensively bound, because it did not answer the description of uncut in the
invoice, for the leaves had manifestly been cut open and read.' When it was explained to him
that in England the term uncut signified only that the edges were not trimmed, he shelved the
rarity with the remark that he 'learned something every day.' . . . Perhaps the Caxton Club
of Chicago is wise in describing its productions as 'with edges untrimmed.' Even a Philistine
ought to be able to comprehend that description, although I once knew a man who supposed that
a book 'bound in boards' had sides composed of planking."

I have been requested to "explain the reason, if there be any, for leaving leaf-edges fastened
[unopened]--even in evanescent magazines--and why people keep books in this condition, without
looking at the contents." The reason why the binder does not open all the leaves is that it
involves additional labor and expense which the publisher usually does not care to incur, as
it does not essentially add to the selling value. Indeed, some collectors hesitate to open
the leaves of their books with the paper-knife, for fear that the selling price would be thereby
depreciated. This is an entirely mistaken idea, though it prevails very generally among those
who do not understand the real meaning of the term "uncut." Most booksellers prefer having
the leaves of the volumes all opened, as many buyers and readers object to the nuisance of
cutting them open. Some of the magazine publishers have modern folding machines equipped with
blades for severing all the leaves. In fine book-making, however, most of the folding and cutting
is done by hand.

The third "symptom" defined by Dibdin, viz: "extra-illustrating," commonly called grangerizing,
is really so far removed from the indicative stages of bibliomania as to render it entirely
inappropriate as a proper single characteristic; it is the whole disease in its worst form.
Fortunately, it is not a frequent infirmity among our present day bibliomaniacs. I cannot refrain
from quoting Mr. William P. Cutter's vehement denunciation of the class of literary foragers
who are thus affected. He observes that "this craze for 'extra-illustrating' seizes remorselessly
the previously harmless bibliophile, and leads him to become a wicked despoiler and mutilator
of books. The extra-illustrator is nearly always the person responsible for the decrepit condition
of many of the books which 'unfortunately lack the rare portrait,' or have, 'as usual,' some
valuable plate or map lacking. Were this professional despoiler, or his minions, the ruthless
booksellers, to destroy the sad wrecks which result from their piratical depredations, all
would be well. But they set these poor maimed hulks adrift again, to seek salvage from some
deluded collector, or some impoverished or ignorant librarian.

"It is curious that the very volume in which our reverend friend Dibdin so heartily condemns
these inexcusable bandits, should be seized on as a receptacle for their ill-gotten prizes.
May the spectre of Thomas Frognall Dibdin haunt the souls of these impious rascals, and torture
them with never-ceasing visions of unobtainable and rare portraits, non-existent autographs,
and elusive engravings in general! They even dare to profane your sacred work, the Biblia of
book-lovers, by the 'insertion' of crudities invented by their fiendish imagination. They have
committed the 'unpardonable sin' of bibliophilism. Not only do they carry on this wicked work,
but actually flaunt their base crimes in the face of their innocent brethren. Hearken to this:--

"DIBDIN, T.F. Bibliomania. London, 1811. Extended to five volumes, with extra printed titles,
and having eight hundred engravings inserted, comprising views, old titles(!), vignettes, and
six hundred and seventy-five portraits of authors, actors, poets, sovereigns, artists, prelates,
&c., &c., 250 guineas."

Limited space prevents me from making any remarks upon the other five "symptoms," none of which
are of any special interest, except to collectors to whose eccentricities they particularly relate.

As to "Autograph Editions," the craze for these continues without abatement. To me, this has
always been one of the unsolved mysteries of the book-mania. I can readily appreciate how a
collector would prize an author's inscribed copy of some choice edition, but why intelligent
people should be allured into the belief that an author's stereotyped autograph displayed upon
a front page gives any added value to a set of subscription books, will to me, I fear, forever
remain a disentangled enigma. I was once applied to by an agent representing a $6000 "Autograph
Edition" of Jean Jacques Rousseau. Having never seen Rousseau's autograph, I asked that it
be shown me. "Oh," said the agent, "Rousseau himself don't sign the copies, but the set will
be signed by the publishers." Would not a much less expensive and more expeditious way of obtaining
publishers' autographs be found in writing a postal card of inquiry for the "prices and terms"
on their publications?

Gilpin has left the following quaint account of the eccentric old bibliomaniac, Henry Hastings,
the uncompanionable neighbor of Anthony Cooper, Earl of Shaftesbury.

To return, however, to the subject more immediately in hand, it will be observed that the present
age is more prolific of bibliophiles than any preceding one, and that the growing interest
in collecting fine books is attended by a relatively increasing demand for a higher standard
of excellency of manufacture. A few years ago, there were only two or three publishers in this
country who "specialized" in fine editions, while at present there are no less than thirty
publishing houses, large and small, and as many more "private presses" engaged in the production
of beautiful books to appease the demands of book-buyers. Many of these are well established
and conducted upon thoroughly honest business principles; some, unfortunately, are not. The
publication and sale of books--especially the so-called "de luxe" editions--is, like some other
branches of industry, beset with numerous evils; so many sharp practices, indeed, having been
resorted to by a few conscienceless publishers, and by a certain class of unscrupulous agents,
that buyers have become wary, not to say weary, of being made the victims of their deceptive
inventions. It is indeed lamentable that a few such pestiferous schemers should thus bring
a certain degree of reproach upon the entire publishing business. It is a common practice among
these soi-disant publishers--many of whom possess neither capital, credit, nor sense of honor--to
buy some lot of etchings or old prints from a junk-shop, or second-hand dealer, at a trifling
price, and thereupon work the same off on credulous admirers of rare prints for possibly a
thousand times their real value. And it is a common practice for these insidious sharks further
to prey upon unsuspecting book-buyers by obtaining publications of reputable houses and falsifying
them by the insertion of spurious titles calculated to delude the buyer into the belief that
there are "only fifty copies issued." Many of them are ostracized book-salesmen who have at
some previous time enjoyed the confidence of their employers, but have been ex-communicated
by all honest publishers and booksellers on account of dishonest proclivities. They are therefore
set adrift to prey upon the public, and are a constant menace to both publishers and buyers.
I shall pay my further respects to these counterfeiters later on when I come to the subject
of Book Clubs; in the mean while, it need hardly be pointed out that reprehensible methods
of this kind are uniformly condemned among all respectable publishers and book-dealers, and
that buyers should cautiously discriminate against those who practice them. It is not surprising
that even the honest publishers and dealers themselves are occasionally made the scapegoats
of these obnoxious parasites; but the astute collector is rarely "caught" by their schemes;
and after a book-buyer has passed the primary or "experience" stages of book-collecting, he
(or she) is designated as a "dead one," in the common parlance of the underground trade here
referred to. Fortunate, indeed, are the bibliophiles who have passed unscathed into the category
of "dead ones."

That my present condemnatory observations are not directed against that great majority of publishers,
booksellers, and agents whose methods in business are founded upon sincerity and integrity,
will, I take it, be clearly understood; and I am, indeed, forced partially to disagree with
Mr. Joline in his vigorous and general proscription of "subscription book-agents," for experience
shows that there are many worthy people of this class, however much they may suffer by the
sins of some of their kind. An acquaintance once said to me that he would "never buy another
book," because he had been "buncoed" by a book-agent, to whom he otherwise referred with an
uncomplimentary adjective. But this did not convince me that his position was more logical
than that of the man who declared he would never take another bath because a watch had been
stolen from his pocket while he was in bathing at some beach resort. It is incomprehensible
that any one could imagine that our paper currency system is fraudulent because there are a
few "green-goods" men in the country, or because counterfeit bills appear every now and then.

We read so much in the papers nowadays of the extravagant sums paid for rare books by our modern
millionaire bibliomaniacs that one is apt to become somewhat panic-stricken upon experiencing
the first symptoms of the bibliomania. While these more opulent victims of book-madness vie
with one another in the auction-room, the rational bibliophile sits in the gallery and views
with silent awe and amazement the scrimmage over some apparently trifling volume that wouldn't
fetch ten cents, but for the fact that it is "unique," and that so and so paid a stupendous
sum for it at some previous sale. Despair not, dear bibliophile, of never being able to join
in the mad scramble for these "uniques;" nor need you feel that they are essential to the formation
of a library. They possess no virtues perceptible to the ordinary bibliophile, and it requires
all the eloquence of a Cicero to elucidate their charms when displaying them to friends. For
after all, the chief point of interest in such books is their cost price, and this you may
be obliged to refrain from mentioning for fear you will be accused of being mentally unbalanced.

It is not necessary to squander a fortune in collecting a library, nor to be hasty in buying
every book you come across. Better go slowly and select wisely; you will derive more enjoyment
from it, and in later years have less to charge to "experience account."

There are a few "busy" book-collectors who intrust the selection of their books to secretaries
or librarians, and thus sacrifice the keenest enjoyment of this captivating pursuit. Of all
absurdities, this seems the most insupportable. It would be far more sensible to have your
secretary select your friends, because if you should happen not to like these, you could abandon
them without ceremony or expense. Why not also attend the opera and your various social functions
by proxy, through your secretary? If he were as good a courtier as he is "literary adviser,"
he might succeed in getting as much enjoyment out of the receptions and dinners as you would,
if you were to attend in person. Then, think of the time you would save! We frequently hear
the remark: "I have no time to devote to my library. I am very fond of books, but haven't time
to collect or read them." And yet seeing what may be done in this regard by care and system,
and that the greatest readers have been the busiest men, it seems strange that persons of intelligence
should thus express themselves; should admit such obvious fatuity of view and procedure.

In referring to this class of book-buyers, Roswell Field says, "The book-lover, so-called,
who lacks any of the thrills that go with the establishment as well as the enjoyment of a library
in all of its appointments has deprived himself of many of the most pleasurable literary and
semi-literary emotions. That bibliophile never pats his horse or his dog. To him his books
are merely tools of trade, accessories to knowledge, to be pawed over, thrown away and replaced
by new copies when worn out. He glories in the fact that his books are his servants rather
than his companions, and he affects to despise and laugh at the sentimental relation which
others have established with their books. Look out for that man! He is not of us; he is not
of the elect; there is as little of warmth and the genial glow of fellowship in his library
as in the middle gallery of the catacombs in the Appian Way. His very books cry out against
him; but he hears them not, for he is deaf as well as blind."

One of the busiest men in New York City, whose name is familiar in financial circles throughout
the civilized world, is one of the most voracious collectors of the age. He probably transacts
more business in a day than half a dozen ordinarily busy men, and yet finds time to give his
personal attention to every minute detail of his vast collections, to which are added hundreds,
and probably thousands, of items every year. This is only one of many such examples among our
busiest men.

I have often heard persons lament in a pensive and apologetic sort of way, "Yes, I have a great
weakness for fine books." The very presence of this mis-called weakness, however, is unmistakable
proof of great mental strength, and those who suffer from it may find solace in the fact that
the giants of commerce, leading statesmen, and great men of affairs in general are frequently
thus afflicted all through the periods of their greatest activity and success. What can possibly
afford a more agreeable relaxation from the toils and perplexities of the day than to recline
in an easy chair before an open grate fire in the library, surrounded by the silently reposing
tomes which record and preserve the noblest thoughts of past and present generations? Surely
no enjoyment in the home or office can be more delectable and unfailing in assuaging the worry
and solicitude of a strenuous life than the silent companionship of books. It is a noteworthy
fact that a large percentage of the leading stock brokers, bankers, active statesmen, and sedulous
lawyers are bibliophiles. I attribute this to the fact that all of these vocations are extremely
taxing upon the nervous system, and those men who are busily engaged in them are, during the
intermittent hours of rest and recreation, naturally inclined to seek the most enjoyable and
refreshing diversions; for, as Horace says,--

    . . . nunc veterum libris, nunc somno et inertibus horis
    Ducere sollicitae jocunda oblivia vitae.

    Along with old books, or a nap, and divine hours of leisure--
    To taste thus forgetfulness--sweet, in the midst of life's troubles.

In an article written for The Bibliophile Society's (1903) Year Book, Caroline Ticknor says,
"The true book-lover loves his books for their helpfulness, for their companionship; but he
regards them as well for their elegant settings." She also observes that "strange as the anomaly
may seem, there are still many persons of ample means, and some education, who, although they
would be horrified at the very thought of admitting to the home a cheap rug or vase, to destroy
the harmony and bring discord and confusion into the luxuriance of the furnishings, yet will
nonchalantly tolerate the incongruity of a miserable fragment of a library made up of the cheapest
and meanest editions to be found in the market, such as would be scorned by those of the most
limited means and plebeian tastes. These will be found inappropriately housed amid the most
sumptuous surroundings. A single rug to adorn the floor, or a single vase resting on a mantle,
will often be found to have cost ten times as much as the whole home library. And yet the intellects
of these people have been nurtured and trained in their youth by the brilliant thoughts of
ancient and modern writers! Even the favorite author, be it Shakespeare, Dickens, Longfellow,
Tennyson, or some other, is frequently represented by a half dozen or so disconsolate-looking
volumes, the remainder of the set either never having been bought, or else, if bought, thrown
aside, or strewn around the attic, or abandoned as a child would discard a toy which afforded
it no further amusement.

"It is worthy of remark, however, that the enormously increased demand of late for beautiful
books evinces the fact that cultured and wealthy people are growing to appreciate the importance
not only of having a good library, but that its quality should embody a degree of estheticism
to correspond with the surroundings."

Many of the most delightful persons, well read and competent to discourse intelligently upon
the merits of books and authors, have never experienced a single pulsation of true bibliophilism;
they have never known the joy of possessing and admiring a beautiful book, and that the attachment
one bears for such a treasure is wholly reciprocal. They have not learned that fine books,
like human beings, are capable of mutual affection, and that it is not necessary to devour
them in order to value their charms. "We do not gather books to read them, my Boeotian friend,"
says Mr. Joline; "the idea is a childish delusion. 'In early life,' says Walter Bagehot, 'there
is an opinion that the obvious thing to do with a horse is to ride it; with a cake, to eat
it; with a sixpence to spend it.' A few boyish persons carry this further, and think that the
natural thing to do with a book is to read it. The mere reading of a rare book is a puerility,
an idiosyncrasy of adolescence; it is the ownership of the book which is the matter of distinction.
The collector of coins does not accumulate his treasures for the purpose of ultimately spending
them in the marketplace. The lover of postage-stamps, small as his horizon may be, does not
hoard his colored bits of paper with the intent to employ them in the mailing of letters. When
some one complained to Bedford that a book which he had bound did not shut properly, he exclaimed,
'Why, bless me, sir, you've been reading it!'"

Herrick says that "the truest owner of a library is he who has bought each book for the love
he bears to it; who is happy and content to say, 'Here are my jewels, my choicest possessions!'"

Southey thus immortalizes his speechless, yet beloved, library companions:

    My never failing friends are they,
    With whom I converse day by day.

Balfour is no less eloquent in paying worthy tribute to his library: "The world may be kind
or hostile; it may seem to us to be hastening on the wings of enlightenment and progress to
an imminent millennium, or it may weigh us down with the sense of insoluble difficulty and
irremediable wrong; but whatever else it may be, so long as we have good health and a library,
it can never be dull."

"Bookes," said the immortal Milton, "demeane themselves as well as men.

In the garnering of book-treasures, some collectors are prompted wholly by mercenary motives--most
of them, fortunately, are not. There are biblio-mercenaries of such sordid inclinations that
they would readily part with almost any book in their possession,--even inscribed presentation
copies!--if lightly tempted with money considerations. Verily, these parsimonious traders would
barter their own souls, if they possessed any value.

I am indebted to the Secretary of a well-known book club for the following facts, to confirm
which I saw all the correspondence. A certain book-buyer joined the club some time ago, and
subscribed for the first publication issued after he became a member. Upon receiving the work
he wrote: "I consider them among the most beautiful examples of book-making that I have ever
seen, and prize them above all other books in my library." Six months later he sold the copy
to a book-agent for twice its original cost. He "passed" the next publication issued by the
club, as it did not interest him, but appended a postscript to his letter, saying: "If any
member wants an extra copy, I have no objection to one being issued upon my membership and
turned over to him, provided I receive the increase in price."

The following humorous incident is recorded in the (1903) Year Book of another prominent book
club. It may be explained that the club issued a very elaborate and beautiful publication,
printed upon deckle edge handmade paper, illustrated with remarque proof copperplate etchings
on Japanese vellum, and in duplicate without remarque on Whatman paper: "One of the members
upon receiving the first two volumes of the ---- publication, writes: 'The Society starts out
by making the worst kind of a blunder. The man's picture in the front of the volume is put
in twice and on two kinds of paper. I could excuse this error, but imagine my horror when upon
turning to the back of the volume I found the same mistake repeated. This is too much.' He
closed by expressing a desire to resign, saying that he did not know he 'was joining a faddists
club,' and takes occasion to remark further that 'the books are cheaply finished, not even
being trimmed and gilded;' also that he 'can buy better books in the stores, with full gilt
edges, for less money.'"

So much has been written about the vagaries of book-collectors and bibliomaniacs that the subject
has long since become threadbare, and about the only unexplored field of labor left to the
choice of him who would gain a hearing with the reader--if one can be found who is not already
weary of reading what the wags think of his (or her) own peculiar whims--is to fall in with
the spirit of the age and compile an "International Library of the World's Greatest Gibberish
about Bibliomaniacs." We have the "World's Greatest" everything else in book-lore, and I shall
not be surprised if some enterprising publisher gets out a "definitive" de luxe edition of
the "World's Greatest Dictionaries." Indeed, the Holy Bible itself has not escaped, for they
are now making a "de luxe" edition, in fourteen volumes! to be sold by subscription. It will
not be an "Autograph Edition," however.

The freaks and fancies of capricious book-gatherers and bibliomaniacs have undergone so few
changes in the last hundred years that modern writers on Bibliomania, after vainly searching
the horizon for some new development in the way of symptoms of the disease, or characteristics
of those afflicted, have wandered off into the verdure of adjacent fields to avoid repetition.
Some of them, from sheer lack of anything new to say, have set upon each other in the most
unflattering terms. Many of the writers on the delectable "Joys of a Book-buyer," or "Habits
of a Bibliomaniac," etc., evidently appreciate the fact that these much persecuted human beings
have other pastimes and habits than collecting books, and that they really inhabit the earth
in all its civilized parts and partake unstintedly of its many pleasurable diversions. But
again, there is another extreme, for I once read a book issued under the misleading title of
"Pleasures of a Book-collector," or something of the sort, which might have been more appropriately
called the "Pleasures of a Single Man," seeing that the work had more to do with the hero's
hopeless love for a fair damsel, and his hours at clubs, cafés, and other places of amusement
in which I had no special interest, than it did with the acquirement of literature. Thus, with
the delusive idea that I was to be ushered into some of the secret enjoyments of the pleasing
diversion of book-buying, I presently found myself more familiar with the habits, vices, and
various unimportant matters of the author's conception--points, in short, having no bearing
whatever upon the subject under consideration--than with the pleasures of a book-collector.
The book was not badly written, nor wholly uninteresting; but if a man buys a ticket to the
opera, he doesn't go prepared to see a cock-fight.

For literary scoffers and malcontents who find fault with everything and everybody, who even
scold publishers because their own books bring but meagre royalties, who fuss and fume over
the harmless foibles of the very ones upon whom they depend for their audience, and like an
ungrateful dog fasten their teeth in the charitable hand that offers them food, there can be
but small sympathy. One is tempted to enlarge upon this familiar type, but here I am digressing
from my subject, and am committing much the same offence as that of which I have elsewhere
accused others.

I have been asked to include within the scope of my article a few remarks about Book Clubs
and Book Societies. In presuming to trespass upon sacred yet inviting ground of this character,
I must be understood as approaching the subject with due reverence and apology. It is an indisputable
fact that among the agencies that have contributed to the advancement and ennobling of the
bookmaker's art in the past twenty years, the legitimate Book Club has been one of the most
potential. We have only to refer to Growell's American Book Clubs in order to learn of the
many clubs and societies of this kind which have arisen in the past few years, with varying
degrees of success and failure,--success, when intelligently conducted upon honest coöperative
principles, and failure, if irrationally directed, without regard to the maxims upon which
successful clubs are managed. The province of these worthy accessories in the world of fine
bookmaking has not been free from invasion by sharks and charlatans, some of whom have succeeded
for a time under the guise of honest and reciprocal motives.

In this country there are private book clubs and societies that have won places of enviable
distinction both here and abroad, and naturally among the foremost of these are the ones which
have been pestered by "imitators." The following significant remarks are taken from the president's
annual address to the members of an old and honored book club:--

"Fame brings its penalties, and during the last year many of us have suffered considerable
annoyance, both individually and as members of the Club, through the exploitation of books
advertised sometimes as publications of The ---- Club, and more often as publications of the
---- Society. These have usually been offered in connection with works of distinguished authors
in numerous volumes, stated, as a rule, to be limited to a thousand copies, and described as
the contents of the private library of a lady, which the agent declares to have been placed
in his hands to dispose of as quickly as possible, regardless of cost. No widow's cruse, apparently,
could be more unfailing in its supply than this 'private library.' While annoying, the device
of a '---- Society,' though manifestly designed to confuse the public mind and trade on the
reputation of this Club, can scarcely deceive our members or even the book-loving public. It,
nevertheless, is an annoyance, and the more vexatious because scarcely calling for other remedy
than exposure.

"It is possible, however, that harm to the good name of the Club may be wrought through the
advertisement, in an English newspaper, to which my attention has been drawn, of a so-called
'---- Society of Great Britain,' which is declared to have been recently formed in conjunction
with the '---- Society of the United States,' which is described as having been established
in 1884, and to have occupied its own Club House since 1888, and to have published handsomely
printed books for sale exclusively to the members. It is announced, however, that the '----
Society of Great Britain,' although intending to act in conjunction with the American society,
'will work upon somewhat different lines, at any rate at first.' It may well be that this cleverly
deceptive advertisement will require some attention from us, either directly or through members
resident abroad.

"This, however, seems to be the only fly in our ointment, and we may congratulate ourselves
that there is nothing more serious to disturb our enjoyment of the anniversary which we now
celebrate."

Another and more palpable fraud has been perpetrated in copying the name of The Bibliophile
Society, but with a slight prefix, just enough to afford a loop-hole through which to escape
legal prosecution. Not enough, however, to enable the public to distinguish between the spurious
and the genuine, and even the members themselves have sometimes been deceived by unscrupulous
agents representing their wares as the regular productions of the valid society. The audacious
promoters of this so-called Society had the boldness not only to pilfer the name of the legitimate
society, but also the name of its president, which was ostentatiously printed upon their letter
heads, together with the name of Dr. Richard Garnett. Both of these gentlemen have recently
published their denunciations through the columns of the press, and protested vigorously against
this unauthorized use of their names.

The modus operandi of this pestiferous concern is to send numbered "complimentary certificates"
throughout the country to persons whose names are obtainable from directories, and when acknowledgment
cards are received from those who deign to accept the exalted compliment, they are forthwith
called upon, usually by some "officer" of the Society,--sometimes the "President," but usually
the "Treasurer," "Secretary," or "Registrar."

Some time ago I was honored by a call from one of these circumventive "Treasurers," but happened
to be conveniently busy at the time, and so made an appointment with him to meet me at my office
the next day. Meanwhile, I prepared to have his statements reduced to writing by a stenographer,
anticipating that it might be necessary to refresh my memory upon certain passages that I might
fail to remember verbatim. The following is the substance of the "canvass" as taken by the
stenographer in an adjoining room, the door of which was wide open:--

"I am the Treasurer of the ---- Society, with headquarters in London. By a special grant from
the English Government, we have recently been permitted to extend our membership into this
country, and three hundred life members are to be admitted under this enlargement of our constitutional
privileges. It may interest you, first, to know something of the origin of this Society. It
was organized in London about three hundred years ago by the Duke of Roxburghe [who was not
born until more than a hundred years later], and was originally composed of about thirty members
of the royal family. The original charter limited the membership to fifty members, and in less
than a month the limit was reached. Through the powerful influence of the royal family the
Society had easy access to all the great repositories of unpublished manuscripts, and the most
valuable and interesting of them were selected for publication. These publications became so
enormously valuable that it stimulated a desire on the part of others to join the Society,
and particularly, some of the nobility of France and Germany. It was decided to increase the
membership to three hundred, and to take in a few members from France, Germany, Italy, and
Russia. The Society thrived for about a thousand years [this is either a stenographic error,
or else he meant to say a hundred]; then there was a period of inactivity, and later on it
was revived again, and the membership limit increased to five hundred. Last year we obtained
permission to again increase the membership by taking in three hundred prominent people in
America. I am over here to arrange for three vice-presidents,--two for the East and one for
the West. I have a special commission to ask you to become one of the honorary vice-presidents
and to offer you a life membership for less than half the regular fee, viz., $225.00; the usual
fee for life membership is $500.00, but you get it for $225.00 on account of acting as our
honorary vice-president for this territory. Of course you would have no regular duties to perform.
You would sign all the membership certificates in your district, and in case of the death of
any member, you would have the privilege of naming his successor.

"The Society issues every year a volume giving all the price currents for the year, and keeps
the members posted on the advance or decline in the value of all important publications. We
also give you in confidence the ratings of various publishers, and print reports to members
exposing all the frauds in the book business. Upon payment of the fee of $225.00, you receive
all of this material free, for the balance of your life, and in addition all of the Society's
regular publications, including the present one, consisting of ---- volumes [here he produced
the customary specimen sheets]. You see this one work alone is worth the full amount you pay
for life membership [here occurred a "special offer" of some sort, given in a low monotone
which the stenographer was unable to hear; and I must confess that I was so stupefied by this
astounding fabrication that I myself have not the faintest recollection of what this "special
offer" consisted]. We are very anxious to have your name as our honorary vice-president here,
because you will not only be an honor to the Society, but the Society will be an honor to you."

Here my Treasurer friend produced a regular form of subscription contract for a set of books;
but it contained no clause about life membership, or any other membership, and included no
promise of anything further than the delivery of the books.

The honor of such a vice-presidency being thrust upon me was indeed a thrilling sensation,
and the story was told in a fluent, cohesive, and logical manner; so well, in fact, that had
I not known in advance that it was purely imaginary from beginning to end, I could scarcely
have avoided giving it full acceptance. But I had heard of the story before, and although partially
prepared, it staggered me surprisingly. I afterwards learned that every one else canvassed
by my interviewer was equally offered one of the "three vice-presidencies."

There appears to be no defense for book clubs against these bogus impersonations. The injured
club, or society, can sustain no claim for any special damage, because, as not offering its
publications in the open market, it actually suffers no ascertainable loss of patronage. The
principal damage results to those who are thus victimized in permitting themselves to be deluded
into the belief that they are acquiring the valid editions of reputable clubs. When club publications
come into the open market they are usually picked up with avidity by collectors, and they have
thus grown into very general favor among book-lovers. Indeed, the high esteem in which they
have come to be regarded offers a productive field for a few crafty publishers to ply their
wily designs in. The audacity of these schemers carries them to such incredible measures that
they sometimes buy sheet-stock from reputable publishing houses, change the name of the edition,
and deliberately manufacture new titles on which they print the name of some book club or society.
These counterfeits are sold to the unsuspecting book-buyer, who often imagines he has landed
a prize. Later, he is likely to become disillusioned. There can be no doubt that the contemptible
practice of thus mutilating and garbling books should be defined as a felony and made punishable
by fine or imprisonment. Book-buyers, however, can in a measure help the situation and protect
themselves by not dealing with such people; they should particularly remember that creditable
book clubs never employ soliciting agents, and rarely, if ever, offer their publications for
sale outside of the membership. Any one, therefore, representing himself as an authorized agent
of a book club may usually be branded as an impostor. Most book clubs print only such number
of copies of each publication as are subscribed and paid for by members in advance, and the
funds thus advanced are used to pay the cost of the edition.

Notwithstanding the evils referred to, the book club is with us to stay, and the very fact
that it is continually pestered by these hangers-on is conclusive proof of its potency and
usefulness; features which insure its secure foundation in the community.

Very few people are able to appreciate the amount of gratuitous labor performed by the officers
and committees of private book clubs. It is erroneous to suppose that beautiful books are a
purely natural offspring of the book club. The preparation of the material for publication
and successfully following it through all the various stages of manufacture requires an enormous
amount of detail work, as well as an accurate knowledge of bookmaking. The president of a prominent
book club recently said, in his annual address to the members:--

"I wish that our members could be witnesses at the many conferences held by the Committee on
Publications and by the Council; of the various experiments needed to settle upon the size
and shape of the book, the size of its page and its margins, the style of type, the initial
letters, head-bands, tail-pieces, engravings, etc. etc.; of the printer's endless proofs, the
making of a special paper (which sometimes proves to be unsuited), and, finally, the style
of binding. What material, color, and general make-up shall it have? If our members could thus
follow the progress of the work from beginning to finish they would be reconciled to disappointment.
At any rate it is through their subscriptions that these experiments can be undertaken, and
it is by knowledge thus gained that the Club has won credit for the Arts and Crafts of our
country, and made an honorable record even in other lands; so that to be a member of the Club
has become an enviable distinction."

Owing to the tricks and stratagem practiced in manufacturing "de luxe" editions, some of our
bibliophiles have taken matters of bookmaking into their own hands, with the result that they
have organized clubs and societies, the members of which take much pleasure in introducing
to their library companions each year one or two charming new acquaintances which come bearing
the club's seal of endorsement. A true bibliophile always feels a just pride in shelving one
of these book-treasures of his own club's production, and thereafter displaying it before his
friends, with the interesting bit of information that "This is the latest production of our
Club; it is issued only for members." For obviously an owner's interest in any work is increased
many fold by the fact that he is a constituent part of the organization which produced the
same: the relationship to the book in such a case is akin to the love of a parent for a child;
and the owner of a fine library will not unusually regard his Club publications and privately
printed books as the objects therein which are entitled to his fondest consideration.

I have recently taken occasion to examine with considerable care the latest publications of
the leading book clubs of this country, and to compare them with some of the first issues of
these same clubs. The improvement in the later productions over the earlier ones astonished
me. There were as good artists, editors, binders, type, paper, ink, and other accessories twenty
years ago as we have now, and indeed it is doubtful if our modern printing presses show much
improvement in the quality of work during that time; but it would seem that persistent effort
along the lines of experimental work has been generously rewarded by a steady improvement in
the general results now attained. Nor is the situation injured by a slight tinge of friendly
rivalry among clubs, to lend an additional zest to their labors, and to whet the praiseworthy
ambition of each to make every succeeding issue a little better than the last. There are many
zealous bibliophiles who belong to two or three book clubs at once, finding it interesting
to collect and compare the works produced by the several clubs.

Many of our great scholars as well as leading publishers are members of these book clubs, and
serve on the councils and various committees; so it must not be supposed by skeptics that their
publications are in the slightest degree amateurish. They employ the best talent and materials;
the councils and publication committees, as well, being composed of persons of unquestioned
integrity, who possess an intelligent understanding of bookmaking.

Some of these clubs (particularly those whose membership is largely local) have commodious
quarters where the members may meet at all times, whether to discuss matters of common business
interest, to exchange their latest jokes, or to generally discuss book-lore and other congenial
topics. The social features of some of the book clubs are, however, reduced to the occasions
of the annual meetings and dinners. The "Club-Room Question," in one of these organizations
having a membership of five hundred, distributed in one hundred and sixty-seven cities and
towns in this country and abroad, was recently reported upon by the Council as follows:--

    The question of providing and maintaining club rooms and
    establishing a suitable library for the Society has been more
    or less discussed since its incorporation. The Council has not
    found that spacious and luxuriously furnished rooms are an
    important requisite in accomplishing the expressed purpose and
    limitations of the Society. These, according to Article I. of
    the Constitution and By-laws, are to be "the study and
    promotion of the arts pertaining to fine bookmaking and
    illustrating, and the occasional publication of specially
    designed and illustrated books, for distribution among its
    members at a minimum cost of production."

    Then, too, while our membership is entirely homogeneous in
    bibliomaniacal spirit, it is so scattered over such a vast
    expanse of territory that only a small percentage of the
    members would be able to enjoy club-room privileges; even
    those within easy reach of such rooms would probably not
    frequent them enough to justify any considerable expense in
    maintenance. It would be necessary, also, to change the
    present constitution (and to assess the members for annual
    dues in order to meet current expenses), should the club-room
    idea be carried out. This would be objectionable on various
    grounds, and amongst these, because a non-resident member
    might thus be paying an annual fee without receiving any
    corresponding benefit in return; a condition in such case
    which would be tantamount to his meeting an increased charge
    each year for the privilege of subscribing and paying for the
    Society's publications. Hence, the Council do not see their
    way to entertaining or recommending the club-room feature. But
    it is not supposed that the spirit of fellowship among our
    bibliophiles--naturally related as they are by a kindred
    interest--will in any degree suffer because of the lack of
    such facilities. A personal contact, however agreeable, does
    not seem essential. Certainly the many charming letters
    received from members whom we have never seen, go far to
    relieve the present lack in this regard, so far as the
    officers are concerned.

    As matters now stand, the Society has sufficiently comfortable
    quarters in one of the offices of the Treasurer, where the
    Council holds its meetings. These are found by experience to
    be quite ample for all practical purposes and present needs.

Collectors of manuscripts and of unique copies often furnish the book clubs with valuable and
otherwise unprocurable material to be printed for the members. Last year one collector alone
furnished gratuitously to a society of which he is a member, many thousands of dollars' worth
of unpublished manuscripts of interesting historical matter to be printed exclusively for its
members. In this way much valuable material is preserved in print, when it would otherwise
remain forever unpublished and unobtainable.

During the past few years it has been my pleasant privilege to spend many hours of each week
in concurrent labor with the Council in the preparation of the publications of The Bibliophile
Society, in which Council I have had the honor to serve continuously since its organization.

There is no pleasure more delectable, no joy more inspiring than that of devising books which
prove a delight to the eye and a satisfaction to the artistic tastes of those who are competent
to appreciate the qualities that should characterize a perfectly made book.

I now realize as never before why it is that our busiest men of affairs, and scholars of renown,
are actuated to serve so assiduously in this labor of love; for surely no amount of effort,
however laborious, can be regarded as having been in any sense misguided or wasted when it
elicits such approbation as expressed in the following letter from Charles A. Decker, Esq.,
a fellow member, of New York City:--

                                                March 15th, 1904.

    MR. H. H. HARPER, Treasurer,
      The Bibliophile Society,
        Colonial Building, Boston, Mass.

    DEAR MR. HARPER:--

    My stock of superlatives is insufficient to adequately express
    my appreciation of "André's Journal." Keats must have had a
    psychic sense which enabled him to see the latest issue by our
    Society, and he had this in view when he wrote the opening
    line of Endymion. (Is n't "A thing of beauty," &c., the
    opening line?) Such books as the Council has planned are an
    education to bibliophiles; the work is progressive, for each
    issue is finer than the one which preceded it. Can any book be
    finer than "André's Journal"? If so, I can't conceive it. Such
    noble types, the pages so perfectly balanced; the margins so
    broad; the paper of such beautiful texture; the ink so
    brilliantly black; the maps so marvelously reproduced; the
    etchings so artistically conceived and executed and the title
    page so beautifully engraved; then the binding--real
    vellum--so rich, simple, and in such perfect taste; even the
    box-cover is fitting in every sense. A perfect book, it seems
    to me. If there are any shortcomings, and you know them, don't
    tell me of them, that in my ignorance I may be content.

    Please thank all the members of the Council for me. Somebody
    must have spent many, many hours in arriving at a final
    judgment upon all the parts which make up such a beautiful
    whole.

    I have yet to enjoy the pleasure of reading the "Journal,"
    then I will be thankful to Mr. Bixby and to Senator Lodge.

                      Yours sincerely,
                                      (Signed) CHARLES A. DECKER.

Mr. Decker is one of the many pleasant and appreciative members of The Bibliophile Society
whose personal acquaintance it has not been my good fortune to make, but from whom the Society
has received many delightful and inspiring letters. The numerous communications thus received
from all quarters have been placed before the Council, with the result that the individual
interest of every worker has been greatly augmented in the Society's welfare. Indeed, I attribute
no small measure of the success and the good name of the Society to the indirect influence
of such words of encouragement and expressions of appreciation as have come from the members.

I sincerely wish for health and continued success to our worthy Book Clubs, and regret that
there are not more of them.

    Sit bona librorum . . . copia.

HENRY H. HARPER.

