Pandoxare (No. 13. p. 202., No. 15. p. 234.).--There is, or till very lately was, an officer
of Trinity College, Cambridge, called the Pandoxator. He had the oversight of the college brewhouse,
and formerly of the college bakehouse also. See Monk's Life of Bentley, 2nd ed. i. 210. In
Dr. Bentley's time the office seems to have been held by a senior fellow. Of late years junior
fellows have held the situation.

C.H. Cooper.

Cambridge, Feb. 11. 1850.

Gazetteer of Portugal.--In answer to the inquiry of "Northman" (No. 16. p. 246.), P.C.S.S.
has to state, that he believes that the most recent, as it is unquestionably the most copious,
work on the topography of Portugal is the Diccionario Geografico de Portugal, published at
Lisbon in 1817, in seventeen volumes, 8vo.

P.C.S.S.

Dog Latin (No. 15, p. 230.).--Many things low and vulgar are marked with the prefix "dog";
as dog-rose, dog-trick, dog-hole, as also dog-gerel. When the great mortar was set up in St.
James's Park, some one asked "Why the carriage was ornamented with dog's heads?" "To justify
the Latin inscription," said Jekyl.

C.

Epigram (No. 15. p. 233.).--Surely not by Kenrick, if written, as it seems, about 1721. Kenrick
was not heard of for near thirty years later.

C.

Pallace, Meaning of (No. 15. p. 233.).--Put out of all doubt by the following article in Phillips's
World of Words. "Pallacia, in old records, 'Pales or paled fences.'"

C.

Meaning of Pallace (No. 13. p. 202., and No. 15. p. 233.).--Bishop Horsley seems to throw some
light on this point by his note on the 9th verse of the 45th Psalm. The learned prelate says

    "'Out of the ivory palaces whereby they have made thee
    glad,'--rather, from 'cabinets of Armenian ivory they have
    pleasured thee.' From cabinets or wardrobes, in which the
    perfumes, or the garments were kept."

This meaning of the word, derived from the Hebrew, corroborates the sense given to it in Mr.
Halliwell's Dictionary of Archaic, &c. Words, viz, a storehouse.

Alfred Gatty.

Ecclesfield, Feb. 9.

Ælian.--The querist (No. 15. p. 232.) is informed that Ælian's Treatise De Animalium Naturâ
has been translated into Latin as well as his other works, by Conrad Gessner, fol. Zurich,
1556; but, it does not appear that an English translation of it has hitherto been published.

A.W.

Brighton.

Why Dr. Dee quitted Manchester.--A correspondent (No. 14. p. 216.) of yours wishes to know
the reason why Dr. Dee resigned his wardenship and left Manchester. I would refer him to the
interesting "Life of Dee," by Dr. Cooke Taylor, in his Romantic Biography of the Age of Elizabeth,
who writes:

    "But in his days mathematics were identified with magic, and
    Dee's learned labours only served to strengthen the imputations
    cast upon his character by the Fellows of his College in
    Manchester. He was so annoyed by these reports that he presented
    a petition to King James, requesting to have his conduct
    judicially investigated; but the monarch, on the mere report
    that Dee was a conjuror, refused to show him the slightest
    favor. Indignant at the injurious treatment he continued to
    receive, he quitted Manchester with his family in the month of
    November, 1604: it is uncertain whether he renounced his
    wardenship at the same time, but he seems to have received no
    more of its revenues; for, during the remainder of his life,
    {285} which was passed at Mortlake, he suffered severely from
    the pressure of poverty."

He died in 1608. Dr. Taylor, I suppose, writes on the authority of Dee's MSS. and Journal,
edited by Dr. Isaac Casaubon.

W.M.K.

Viridis Vallis (no. 14. p. 213.).--This is the monastery of Groenendael, situated in the forest
of Soignies, near Brussels. In the Bibliothèque des Ducs de Bourgoyne are preserved several
manuscript volumes relative to its history. (See Marchal's Catalogue, vol. ii. p. 84.) Sir
Thomas Phillipps has also a Chartulary of this monastery among his manuscripts.

F.M.

Recent Novel.--I beg to inform "Adolphus" that the Novel of which he is in search (No. 15.
p. 231.) is Le Morne au Diable, by Eugène Sue; the hero of which is the Duke of Monmouth, who
is supposed to have escaped to Martinique.

J.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANIES.

Use of Monosyllables.--In Beaumont and Fletcher's Boadicea, Act 3. Sc. 1. (Edinbugh, 1812),
I meet with the following lines in Caratach's Apostrophe to "Divine Andate," and which seem
to corroborate Mr. C. FORBES'S theory (No. 16. p. 228.) on the employment of monosyllables
by Shakspeare, when he wished to express violent and overwhelming emotion: at least they appear
to be used much in the same way by the celebrated dramatists whom I quote:

  "Give us this day good hearts, good enemies,
  Good blows on both sides, wounds that fear or flight
  Can claim no share in; steel us both with anger,
  And warlike executions fit thy viewing.
  Let Rome put on her best strength, and thy Britain,
  Thy little Britain, but as great in fortune,
  Meet her as strong as she, as proud, as daring!
  And then look on, thou red-eyed God; who does best,
  Reward with honour; who despair makes fly,
  Unarm for ever, and brand with infamy!"

C.I.R.

Feb. 16.

To endeavour oneself (No. 8. p. 125.).--"G.P." thinks that the verb "endeavour" takes a middle
voice form in the collect for the second Sunday after Easter, in the preface to the Confirmation
Service, and in the Form of Ordering of Priests: but in these instances is it any thing more
than the verb neuter, implying that we should endeavour ourselves to follow, &c.?

In Shepherd's Elucidation of the Book of Common Prayer (2 vols. 8vo. Lord. 1817), under the
head of the Confirmation Office, it is stated relative to the persons to be confirmed (vol.
ii. p. 312.), "that they solemnly engage evermore to endeavour faithfully to perform their
part of that covenant."

C.I.R.

Evelyn's Sculptura.--In a copy of Evelyn's Sculptura, 3rd edit., with Memoir of the Author's
Life, 8vo. London, 1759, I find the following memorandum, in pencil, prefixed to the Memoirs:

    "By Dr. Warton of Winchester, as he himself informed me in
    1785."

An autograph resembling "J. Chelmar" is on the fly-leaf. As I do not see this Memoir ascribed
to Dr. Warton in any list, to which I have access, of his writings, perhaps the Memoir is not
generally, or at all, known to be by him, and I therefore send the memorandum to you to be
winnowed in your literary threshing-floor, by those who have better means and more leisure
to ascertain its value.

J.M.

Oxford, Feb. 5.

William Baxter.--I do not know whether William Baxter is authority for anything. When you see
a word quoted from one of the languages or dialects which the moderns call Celtic, that word
will very commonly be found not to exist. When at a loss, quote Celtic. If W. Baxter says (see
No. 13. p. 195.) that buarth papan means the sun's ox-stall, or, in other words, that papan
means the sun, I should wish to know where else such a name for that luminary, for or any thing
else, may be met with? I have not found any such thing.

A.N.

Derivation of the word "Avon."--Among the many proofs of the prevalence of the Gaelic roots
in existing names at both ends of the island, it may be mentioned that there are ten rivers
named Avon in Britain, and Avon is simply the Gaelic word for a river.

J.U.G. Gutch.

Warton and Heinsius.--A late critic thinks he has discovered that Mr. Thomas Warton, a contemporary
of Mr. Wise, and fellow of the same college, an antiquary and scholar of whom England may be
proud, knew little of Latin, and less of Greek, because, forsooth, he did not notice Milton's
false quantities, which Heinsius did! As well might it be argued, that the critic is an immoral
man, because he did not notice the delinquencies of Heinsius in a moral point of view; the
said Heinsius being obliged to resign his secretaryship to the city of Amsterdam in consequence
of a prosecution by a young woman for breach of promise of marriage, under the faith of which
she had lived with him, and borne him two children. The sentence of misdaadigheyd was pronounced
against him, and confirmed, on appeal, by the supreme court of Holland, in 1662. So much for
the unpatriotic puff of the learned foreigner, to {286} the disparagement of one of the greatest
ornaments of English literature. As one "note" naturally produces another, I hope your sense
of justice, Mr. Editor, will admit this, in order to counter-balance the effect of the former
one; appearing, as it did, in a periodical of considerable circulation, which, I am glad to
hear, is soon to be very much improved.

J.I.

Queen's Bagnio (No. 13. p. 196.).--The Queen's Bagnio in Long Acre was on the south side, nearly
opposite to the door of Long Acre Chapel. The Duke's bath I have always heard was in Old Belton
Street, now Endell Street; the fourth house from Castle Street on the west side. It has been
new fronted not long since; but at the time that I frequented the baths there--the exterior
had pilasters, and a handsome cornice in the style of Inigo Jones,--all being built in dark
red brick. Within there was a large plunging bath, paved and lined with marble, the walls being
covered by small tiles of blue and white, in the Dutch fashion. The supply of water was from
a well on the premises.

There were several apartments for warm-bathing, having the baths and pavements of marble, and
to several of these were attached dressing-rooms.

The house is now, I believe, occupied by a carpenter; but the baths remained, though in a dilapidated
condition, a short-time since, and probably are there still.

T.W.

A Flemish Account.--In illustration of a query in your first number on the origin of the expression
"a Flemish Account," unless you think it too late for insertion, I send the following extract
from an old volume in the Cathedral Library at Salisbury. It is entitled, "The Accurate Accomptant
or London Merchant, &c.; by Thomas Brown, Accomptant: composed for the Use and Benefit of the
poor Blew-Coat children educated in Christ's Hospital, &c. London, printed by William Godbid,
sen. 1669. fol."

The book consists almost entirely of examples of the best methods of keeping accounts, from
which I select the following instance:

    "London, August 10th, 1668.

    "To Roger Pace, Factor, &c., for 10 Pieces cont. 746 Ells Fl. at
    10 S. Flem. per Ell. is 373 l. Flem. Exchange at 35 S makes
    Sterling Money 213 l. 2s. 10 d."

The above extract strongly confirms the explanations of the expressions given by your correspondents
"Q.Q." and "Mr. Bolton Corney," in No. 5. p. 74., as it proves both the necessity and early
practice of accurately distinguishing in commercial dealings between English and Flemish methods
of reckoning.

E.A.D.

    [The following is a curious illustration of the use of the
    phrase.

    "A person resident in London is said to have had most of
    Caxton's publications. He sent them to Amsterdam for inspection,
    and, on writing for them, was informed that they had been
    destroyed by accident. 'I am very much afraid,' says Herbert,
    'my kind friend received but a Flemish account of his
    Caxtons.'"--Typ. Antiq., p. 1773.]

