     "Her Majesty's dress consisted of a petticoat of sea-green
     satin, richly ornamented with silver lace of antique pattern
     and an overdress of dark velvet, embroidered with gold and
     set with precious stones. On her powdered hair, amplified by
     one of Herr Adeljana, the Viennese coiffeur's, most
     successful creations, sat a jaunty three-cornered hat having
     a blazing aigrette of large diamonds in front, the identical
     cluster of white stones which figured at the great
     Napoleon's coronation, and which he lost, together with his
     entire equipage, in the battle of Waterloo. In her ears her
     Majesty wore pearl ornaments representing a small bunch of
     cherries. Like the aigrette, they are Crown property, and
     that Auguste Victoria thought well enough of the jewels to
     rescue them from oblivion for this occasion was certainly
     most appropriate."

The Emperor's costume is also described.

"He wore the cuirassier uniform of the great Frederick's period, a highly ornamented dress
that suited the War Lord, who was painted and powdered to perfection, extremely well, especially
as Wellington boots, a very becoming wig and his strange head-gear really and seemingly added
to his figure, while his usually stern face beamed pleasantly under the powder and rouge laid
on by expert hands."

The arrival of Menzel is then narrated and the reception by the Emperor, who took the part
of an adjutant of Frederick the Great's, and in that character "bombarded the helpless master,"
as the chronicler says,

     "with forty stanzas of alleged verse, in which the deeds of
     Prussia's kings and the masterpieces that commemorate them
     were extolled with a prosiness that sounded like an
     afterclap of William's Reichstag and monument orations."

A real concert followed, and supper was taken in the Marble Hall adjoining. The authoress concludes
as follows:--

     "I was contemplating these reminiscences (the pictures of La
     Barberini) in silent reverie when the door opened and the
     Kaiser came in with little Menzel.

     "'I have a mind to engage Angeli to paint her Majesty's
     picture in the costume of Princess Amalia,' said the Emperor
     'What do you think of it?'

     "'Angeli is painter to many emperors and kings,' replied the
     Professor, and I saw him smile diplomatically as he moved
     his spectacles to get a better view of the allegorical
     canvas on the left wall that exhibits the nude figure of the
     famous mistress in its entirety.

     "'I am glad you agree with me on that point,' said the
     Emperor, impatient to execute the idea that had crossed his
     mind. 'I will telegraph to him to-night.'

     "And when, five minutes later, Menzel bent over my hand to
     take formal leave, I heard him murmur in his dry,
     absent-minded manner--'Pesne ... Angeli ... Frederick the
     Great ... William II!"

We have spoken of the Court atmosphere of this time. The following extracts from the Memoirs
of ex-Chancellor Prince Hohenlohe will assist the reader, perhaps even better than a connected
account, to enter, in imagination at all events, into it. The conversations cited between the
Emperor and the Prince turn on all sorts of topics--the pass question in Alsace (where Hohenlohe
was then Statthalter), the possibility of war with Russia, pheasant shooting, projected monuments,
the breach with Bismarck, the Triple Alliance, and a hundred more of the most different kinds.
Once talking domestic politics, the Emperor said:

     "It will end by the Social Democrats getting the upper hand.
     Then they will plunder the people. Not that I care. I will
     have the palace loop-holed and look on at the plundering.
     The burghers will soon call on me for help;"

and on another occasion, in 1889, Hohenlohe tells of a dinner at the palace, and how after
dinner, when the Empress and her ladies had gone into another salon, the Emperor, Hohenlohe,
and Dr. Hinzpeter (the Emperor's old tutor) conversed together for an hour, all standing. "The
first subject touched on," relates the Prince, was the gymnasia (high schools), the Emperor
holding that they made too exacting claims on the scholars, while Hohenlohe and Hinzpeter pointed
out that otherwise the run on the schools would be too great and cause danger of a "learned
proletariat." Prince Hohenlohe concludes:

     "In the whole conversation, which never once came to a
     standstill, I was pleased by the fresh, lively manner of the
     Emperor, and was in all ways reminded of his grandfather,
     Prince Albert."

Next year the Prince was present at an official dinner in the Berlin palace. He writes:--

     "BERLIN, 22 March, 1890.

     "At seven, dinner in the White Salon (at the palace). I sat
     opposite the Empress and between Moltke and Kameke. The
     former was very communicative, but was greatly interfered
     with by the continuous music, and was very angry at it. Two
     bands were placed facing each other, and when one ceased the
     other began to play its trumpets. It was hardly endurable.
     The Emperor made a speech in honour of the Queen of England
     and the Prince of Wales (afterwards King Edward, present on
     the occasion of the investiture of his son Prince George,
     now King George V, with the Order of the Black Eagle), and
     mentioned his nomination as English admiral (whose uniform
     he was wearing) and the comradeship-in-arms at the battle of
     Waterloo; he also hoped that the English fleet and the
     German army would together maintain peace. Moltke then said
     to me: 'Goethe says, "a political song, a discordant song."'

     "He also said he hoped the speech wouldn't get into the
     papers."

(It did, however.)

The next extract describes a conversation Prince Hohenlohe had with the Emperor at Potsdam
the following year. It gives an idea of the ordinary nature of conversations between the Emperor
and his high officials on such occasions.

     "BERLIN, 13 December, 1891.

     "Yesterday forenoon was invited to the New Palace at
     Potsdam. Besides myself were the Prince and Princess von
     Wied, with the Mistress of the Robes and the Court marshal.
     Emperor and Empress very amiable. The Emperor spoke of his
     hunting in Alsace, and supposed it would be some years
     before the game there would be abundant. Then he expressed
     his satisfaction at my acquisition of Gensburg, and when I
     told him there was not much room in the castle he said, no
     matter, he could nevertheless pass a few days there with a
     couple of gentlemen very pleasantly. Passing to politics, he
     gave vent to his displeasure at the attitude of the
     Conservative party, who were hindering the formation of a
     Conservative-monarchical combination against the
     Progressives and Social Democrats. This was all the more
     regrettable as the Progressives, if now and then they
     opposed the Social Democrats, still at bottom were with
     them. The Emperor approves of the commercial treaties and
     seemed to have great confidence in Caprivi generally. As we
     came to speak of intrigues and gossip, the Emperor hinted
     that Bismarck was behind them. He added that people were
     urging him from many quarters to be reconciled with
     Bismarck, but it was not for him to take the first step. He
     seemed well informed about the situation in Russia and
     considered it very dangerous. When I asked the Emperor how
     he stood now with the Czar, he replied 'Badly. He went
     through here without paying me a visit, and I only write him
     ceremonious letters. The Queen of Denmark prevented him
     coming to Berlin, for fear he should go to Potsdam. She has
     gone now with him to Livadia on the pretext of the silver
     wedding, but in reality to keep him away from Berlin.'"

Writing of a lunch at Potsdam, under date Berlin, November 10, 1892, the Prince notes:--

     "The Emperor came late and looked tired, but was in good
     spirits. We went immediately to table. Afterwards the
     conversation turned on Bismarck. 'When one compares what
     Bismarck does with that for which poor Arnim had to suffer!'
     He would do nothing, he said, against Bismarck, but the
     consequences of the whole thing were very serious. Waldersee
     and Bismarck couldn't abide one another. They had, however,
     become allies out of common hatred of Caprivi, whose fall
     Bismarck desired. What might happen afterwards neither
     cared."

The following was penned after the old Chancellor's visit of reconciliation:--

     "BERLIN, 27 January, 1894.

     "To-night gala performance at the opera. Between the acts I
     talked first with different monarchs, the King of
     Württemberg, the King of Saxony, the Grand Duke of
     Oldenburg, and so on. Then I was sent for by the Empress, of
     whom I took leave. The Emperor came shortly afterwards. We
     spoke of Bismarck's visit the day before and the good
     consequences for the Emperor it would have. 'Yes,' said the
     Emperor, 'now they can put up triumphal arches for him in
     Vienna and Munich, I am all the time a length ahead. If the
     press continues its abuse it only puts itself and Bismarck
     in the wrong.' I mentioned that red-hot partisans of
     Bismarck were greatly dissatisfied with the visit, and said
     the Emperor should have gone to Friedrichsruh (Bismarck's
     estate near Hamburg). 'I am well aware of it,' said the
     Emperor,'but for that they would have had a long time to
     wait. He had to come here.' On the whole the Emperor spoke
     very sensibly and decisively, and I did not at all get the
     impression that he now wants to change everything."

Prince Hohenlohe was summoned to Potsdam in October, 1894, by a telegram from the Emperor.
All the telegram said was that "important interests of the Empire" were concerned. Hohenlohe
was only aware of the dismissal of Caprivi from a newspaper he read in Frankfort on his way
to Potsdam. The Emperor met him at the station (Wildpark) and conveyed him to the New Palace,
where the Prince agreed to accept the Chancellorship "at the Emperor's earnest request." Princess
Hohenlohe was decidedly against her husband, who was now seventy-five, accepting the post,
and even ventured to telegraph to the Empress to prevent it.

The Prince has a note on his intercourse with his imperial master. He is writing to his son,
Prince Alexander:--

     "BERLIN, 17 October, 1896.

     "It is a curious thing--my relations to his Majesty. I come
     now and then to the conclusion, owing to his small
     inconsideratenesses, that he intentionally avoids me and
     that things can't continue so. Then again I talk with him
     and see that I am mistaken. Yesterday I had occasion to
     report to him, and he poured out his heart to me and took
     occasion in the friendliest way to ask my advice. And thus
     my distrust is dissipated."

Hunting with the Emperor:--

     "15 December, 1896.

     "Yesterday I obeyed the royal invitation to hunt at Springe.
     I had to leave Berlin as early as 7 a.m. to catch the royal
     train at Potsdam. From Springe railway station we passed
     immediately into the hunting district. Only sows were shot.
     I brought down six. Then we drove to the Schloss, rested for
     a few hours and then dined. The Emperor was in very good
     humour and talked incessantly; in addition the Uhlan band
     and the usually noisy conversation."

When presenting his resignation to the Emperor at Hamburg in October, 1900, the Prince, who
had evidently been for some time aware that his term of office was drawing to a close, describes
his conversation with the Emperor:--

     "At noon, as I came to the Emperor, he received me in a very
     friendly way. We first settled about summoning the
     Reichstag, and then his Majesty said, 'I have received a
     very distressing letter'--an allusion to the Chancellor's
     official letter of resignation, which he had placed in the
     Emperor's hands through Tschirschky, Foreign Minister. 'As I
     then,' continued Hohenlohe, 'explained the necessity of my
     resignation on the ground of my health and age the Emperor,
     apparently quite satisfied, agreed, so that I could see he
     had already expected my request and consequently that it was
     high time I should make it. We talked further over the
     question of my successor, and I was agreeably surprised when
     he forthwith mentioned Bülow, who certainly at the moment is
     the best man available. His Majesty then said he would
     telegraph to Lucanus (Chief of the Civil Cabinet) to bring
     Bülow to Homburg so that we might consult about details. I
     breakfasted with their Majesties and went calmly home.'"

Writing to his daughter next day Prince Hohenlohe, in words that do equal credit to himself
and the imperial family, says:

     "It is always a pleasure to me when on such occasions I can
     convince myself of the Christian disposition of the imperial
     family. In our for the most part unbelieving age this family
     seems to me like an oasis in the desert."

Prince Hohenlohe was succeeded as Chancellor by Prince von Bülow, who had held the office of
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs for the preceding two years, and practically conducted
the Emperor's foreign policy during that time. He had served as Secretary of Embassy in St.
Petersburg, Vienna, and Athens, was a Secretary to the Congress of Berlin, fought in the war
with France and after seven years as Minister in Bucharest spent four years as Ambassador in
Rome. Here he married a divorced Italian lady, the Countess Minghetti. After acting as deputy
Foreign Secretary for the late Baron Marschall von Bieberstein, he was appointed permanent
Foreign Secretary, and on October 17, 1900, was called by the Emperor to the most responsible
post in the Empire next to his own, that of Imperial Chancellor. The Emperor's choice was fully
justified, for the new Chancellor proved himself to be the most brilliant diplomatist and parliamentarian
since Bismarck.

IX

THE NEW CENTURY

1900-1901

German writers, commenting on the turn of the century, claim to discover a change in the Emperor's
character about this period. He has lost much of his imaginative, his Lohengrin, vein, and
has become more practical, more prosaic and matter-of-fact. To use the German word, he is now
a Realpolitiker, one who deals in things, not words or theories, and drawing his gaze from
the stars makes them dwell more attentively on the immediate practical considerations of the
world about him. His nature has not changed, of course, nor his manner, but he has begun to
see that he must employ means and ways different from those he employed previously. He has
not become a Bismarck, for he still pursues his aims more in the spirit of the colonel of a
regiment leading his men to the attack with banners flying, drums beating, swords rattling
in their scabbards and mailed gauntlets held threateningly aloft, than in that of the cool
and calculating politician ruminating in his closet on the tactics of his opponents, and deliberating
how best to meet and confound them; but he gives more thought to what is going on about him,
to party politics, to the economic necessities of the hour, and to modern science and its inventions.

What strikes the Englishman perhaps as much as anything in the Emperor's character at this
time is the Cromwellian trait in it. This is a side of his Protean nature which never seems
to have been adequately recognized in England, yet in a singularly baffling character-composition
it is one of the fundamental elements. The view of Prussian monarchy, inherited from one Hohenzollern
to another for generation after generation, that the race of people to which he belonged (with
any other race he could include by conquest in it) has been handed over by Heaven for all eternity
to his family, naturally predisposes him to take a religious, a patriarchal, one might say
an Hebraic, view of government; but in addition we find the warrior spirit at all times going
hand in hand with the religious spirit, almost as strongly as in the case of Mahomet with the
Koran in one hand and the sword in the other.

There was nothing in the Emperor's youth to show the existence of deeply religious conviction,
but as soon as he mounted the throne, and all through the reign up to the close of the century,
indeed some years beyond it, his speeches, especially when he was addressing his soldiery,
were filled with expressions of religious fervour. "Von Gotten Gnaden," he writes as a preface
for a Leipzig publication appearing on January 1, 1900,

     "is the King; therefore to God alone is he responsible. He
     must choose his way and conduct himself solely from this
     standpoint. This fearfully heavy responsibility which the
     King bears for his folk gives him a claim on the faithful
     co-operation of his subjects. Accordingly, every man among
     the people must be thoroughly persuaded that he is, along
     with the King, responsible for the general welfare."

It may be noted in passing that Cromwell and the Emperor are alike in being the founders of
the great war navies of their respective countries.

On the date mentioned (New Year's Day), in the Berlin arsenal when consecrating some flags,
he addressed the garrison on the turn of the year:

     "The first day of the new century finds our army, that is
     our folk in arms, gathered round its standards, kneeling
     before the Lord of Hosts--and certainly if anyone has reason
     to bend the knee before God, it is our army."

"A glance at our standards," the Emperor continued,

     "is sufficient explanation, for they incorporate our
     history. What was the state of our army at the beginning of
     the century? The glorious army of Frederick the Great had
     gone to sleep on its laurels, ossified in pipeclay details,
     led by old, incapable generals, its officers shy of work,
     sunk in luxury, good living, and foolish self-satisfaction.
     In a word, the army was no longer not only not equal to its
     task, but had forgotten it. Heavy was the punishment of
     Heaven, which overtook it and our folk. They were flung into
     the dust, Frederick's glory faded, the standards were cast
     down. In seven years of painful servitude God taught our
     folk to bethink itself of itself, and under the pressure of
     the feet of an arrogant usurper (Napoleon) was born the
     thought that it is the highest honour to devote in arms
     one's life and property to the Fatherland--the thought, in
     short, of universal conscription."

The word for conscription, it may be here remarked, is in German Wehrpflicht, the duty of defence.
To most people in England it means simply "compulsory military service." It is important to
note the difference, as it explains the German national idea, and the Emperor's idea, that
all military and naval forces are primarily for defence, not offence. This is, indeed, equally
true of the British, or perhaps any other, army and navy; but how many Englishmen, when they
think of Germany, can get the idea into the foreground of their thoughts or accustom themselves
to it?

However, we have not yet done with the Emperor's baffling character. There was a third element
that now developed in it--the modern, the twentieth-century, the American, the Rockefeller
element. It is intimately connected with his Weltpolitik, as his Weltpolitik is with his foreign
policy in general--indeed one might say his Weltpolitik is his foreign policy--a policy of
economic expansion, with a desperate apprehension of losing any of the Empire's property, and
a determination to have a voice in the matter when there is any loose property anywhere in
the world to be disposed of. To the Hebraic element and the warrior element (an entirely un-Christlike
combination, as the Emperor must be aware) there now began to be added the mercantile, the
modern, the American element--the interest in all the concerns of national material prosperity,
in the national accumulation of wealth, the interest in inventions, in commercial science,
in labour-saving machinery, the effort to win American favour, to facilitate intercourse and
establish close and profitable relations with that wealthy land and people.

We know that the Emperor has English blood in him, greatly admires England, and is immensely
proud of being a British admiral. We have seen him exhibiting traits of character that remind
one of Lohengrin or Tancred. He has played many parts in the spirit of a Hebrew prophet and
patriarch, of a Frederick the Great, a Cromwell, a Nelson, a Theodore Roosevelt. Preacher,
teacher, soldier, sailor, he has been all four, now at one moment, now at another. We shall
find him anon as art and dramatic critic, to end--so far as we are concerned with him--as farmer.
Is it any wonder if such a man, mediæval in his nature and modern in his character, defies
clear and definite portrayal by his contemporaries?

Taking the year 1900 as the first year of the new century, not as some calculators, and the
Emperor among them, take it, as the last year of the old, the twentieth century may be said
to have opened with a dramatic historical episode in which the Emperor and his Empire took
very prominent parts--the Boxer movement.

Little notice has been taken in our account of Germany's spacious days of her relations to
China and the Far East generally. They were, nevertheless, all through that period intimately
connected with her expansion or dreams of expansion. About 1890 the Flowery Land awoke to the
benefits of European civilization and in particular of European ingenuity; and in 1891, for
the first time in Chinese history, foreign diplomatists were granted the privilege of an annual
reception at the Chinese Court. So exclusive was the Manchu dynasty--the Hohenzollerns of China
in point of antiquity; yet not a score of years later the Manchu monarchy had been quietly
removed from its five-thousand-year-old throne, and China, apparently the most conservative
and monarchical people on earth, proclaimed itself a republic--a regular modern republic!--an
operation that among peoples claiming infinite superiority to the Chinese would have cost thousands
of lives and a vast expenditure of money.

Naturally, once China showed a willingness to abandon its axenic attitude towards foreign devils
and all things foreign-devilish, the European Powers turned their eyes and energies towards
her, and a strenuous commercial and diplomatic race after prospective concessions for railways,
mines, and undertakings of all kinds began. Each Power feared that China would be gobbled up
by a rival, or that at least a partition of the vast Chinese Empire was at hand. Consequently,
when China was beaten in her war with Japan, and made the unfavourable treaty of Shimonoseki,
the European Powers were ready to appear as helpers in time of need. Russia, Germany, and France
got the Shimonoseki Treaty altered, and the Laotung Peninsula with Port Arthur given back,
and in return Russia acquired the right to build a railway through Manchuria (the first step
towards "penetration" and occupation), French engineers obtained several valuable mining and
railway concessions, and Germany got certain privileges in Hankow and Tientsin.

Meantime the old, deeply-rooted hatred of the foreign devil, the European, was spreading among
the population, which was still, in the mass, conservative. Missionaries were murdered, and
among them, in 1897, two German priests. Germany demanded compensation, and in default sent
a cruiser squadron to Kiautschau Bay. Russia immediately hurried a fleet to Port Arthur and
obtained from China a lease of that port for twenty-five years. England and France now put
in a claim for their share of the good things going. England obtained Wei-hai-Wei, France a
lease of Kwang-tschau and Hainan. China was evidently throwing herself into the arms of Europe,
when, in 1898, the Dowager Empress took the government out of the hands of the young Emperor
and a period of reaction set in. The appearance of Italy with a demand for a lease of the San-mun
Bay in 1899 brought the Chinese anti-foreign movement to a head, and the Boxer conspiracy grew
to great dimensions.

The movement was caused not merely by religious and race fanaticism, but by the popular fear
that the new European era would change the economic life of China and deprive millions of Chinese
of their wonted means of livelihood. The Dowager Empress and a number of Chinese princes now
joined it. Massacres soon became the order of the day, and it is calculated that in the spring
of 1900 alone more than 30,000 Christians were barbarously done to death. Among the victims
were reckoned 118 English, 79 Americans, 25 French, and 40 of other nationalities. The Ambassadors
and Ministers of all nations, conscious of their danger, applied to the Tsungli Yamen (Foreign
Office), demanding that the Imperial Government should crush the Boxer movement. The Government
took no steps, the diplomatists were beleaguered in their embassies, and were only saved by
friendly police from being murdered.

This, however, was but a temporary respite, and it became necessary to bring marines from the
foreign ships of war lying at the mouth of the Pei-ho River just out of range of the formidable
Taku Forts. These troops, 2,000 in all, were led by Admiral Seymour. They tried to reach Pekin,
but failed owing to the destruction of the railway, and retired to Tientsin, from whence, however,
on June 16th, a detachment set out to capture the Taku Forts. The capture was effected, the
German gunboat Iltis, under Captain Lans, playing a conspicuously brave part. Tientsin was
now in danger from the Boxer bands, but was relieved by a mixed detachment of Russians and
Germans under General Stoessel, the subsequent defender of Port Arthur.

The alarm meantime at Pekin was intense. The Chinese Government, throwing off all disguise,
ordered the diplomatists to leave the city. They refused, knowing that to leave the shelter
of the embassies meant torture and death. One of them, however, the German Minister, Freiherr
von Ketteler, ventured from his Legation and was killed in broad daylight on his way to the
Chinese Foreign Office. Only one of the Minister's party escaped, to stagger, hacked and bloody,
into the British Legation with the news. This Legation, as the strongest building in the quarter,
became the refuge of the entire diplomatic corps, with their wives, children, and servants.
It was straightway invested and bombarded by the Boxers, and as the days and weeks went on
the other Legation buildings were burned, and the refugees in the British Legation had to look
death at all hours in the face.

The murder of von Ketteler excited anger and horror throughout the world, and in no breast,
naturally, to a stronger degree than in that of the German Emperor. All nations hastened to
send troops to Pekin. Japan was first on the scene with 16,000 men under General Yamagutschi.
Russia followed next with 15,000 under General Lenewitch, then England with 7,500 under General
Gaselee, then France with 5,000 under General Frey, then America with 4,000 under General Chaffee,
Germany with 2,500 under von Hopfner, Austria and Italy with smaller contingents--in all more
than 50,000 men, with 144 guns. A little later the expeditionary corps from Germany, 19,000
strong, under General von Lessel, and that from France, 10,000 strong, arrived. At the suggestion,
it is said, of Russia, and by agreement among the European Powers, united by a common sympathy
and in face of a common danger, the German Field-Marshal, Count Waldersee, was appointed to
the supreme command of all the European forces. At the same time naval supports were hurried
by all maritime nations to the scene, and within a short period 160 warships and 30 torpedo
boats were assembled off the Chinese coast.

The march to Pekin and the relief of the imprisoned Europeans are incidents still fresh in
public memory. In the crowded British Legation fear alternated with hope, and hope with fear,
until, on the forenoon of August 14th, a boy ran into the Legation crying that "black-faced
Europeans" were advancing along the royal canal in the direction of the building. In a few
minutes a company of Sikh cavalry, part of some Indian troops diverted on their way to Aden,
galloped up, all danger was over, and the refugees were saved.

The Boxer troubles ended on May 13, 1901, with the signature by Li Hung Chang in the name of
the Emperor of China of a treaty of peace, the main conditions of which were the payment by
China within thirty years of a war indemnity to the Powers of 450 million taels (£66,000,000)
and an agreement to send a mission of atonement to the Courts of Germany and Japan--for among
the foreign victims of the Boxers in the previous year had been the Japanese representative
in China, Baron Sugiyama.

For two or three weeks the action of the Emperor with regard to the Chinese mission of atonement
brought him into universal ridicule. Prince Chun, a near relative of the Chinese Emperor, who
had been appointed to conduct the mission, reached Basle in September, 1901, on his way to
Berlin. Here he lingered, and it soon became known that a hitch had occurred in his relations
with Germany. It then transpired that the delay was caused by the Emperor's having suddenly
intimated that he expected Prince Chun to make thrice to him, as he sat on his throne at Potsdam,
the "kotow" as practised in the Court of China. In view of the surprise, laughter, and criticism
of Europe, the Emperor modified his demand for the "kotow" to its symbolic performance by three
deep bows. Prince Chun thereupon resumed his journey. An impressive, if theatrical, scene was
prepared in the New Palace at Potsdam, where the Emperor, seated on the throne, his marshal's
baton in his hand, and flanked by Ministers and the officers of his household, received the
bearer of China's expressions of regret. Whatever one may think of the scenic effect provided,
the reply the Emperor made to Prince Chun, after the three bows arranged upon had been made,
is a model of its kind--general not personal, sorrowful rather than angry, warning rather than
reproachful. The Emperor said--

     "No pleasing nor festive cause, no mere fulfilment of a
     courtly duty, has brought your Imperial Highness to me, but
     a sad and deeply grave occurrence. My Minister to the Court
     of his Majesty the Emperor of China, Freiherr von Ketteler,
     fell in the Chinese capital beneath the murderous weapons of
     an imperial Chinese soldier, who acted by the orders of a
     superior, an unheard-of outrage condemned by the law of
     nations and the moral sense of all countries. From your
     Imperial Highness I have now heard the expression of the
     sincere and deep regret of his Imperial Majesty the Emperor
     of China regarding the occurrence. I am glad to believe that
     your Imperial Highness's royal brother had nothing to do
     with the crime or with the further acts of violence against
     inviolable Ministers and peaceful foreigners, but all the
     greater is the guilt which attaches to his advisers and his
     Government. Let these not deceive themselves by supposing
     that they can make atonement and receive pardon for their
     crime through this mission alone, and not through their
     subsequent conduct in the light of the prescriptions of
     international law and the moral principles of civilized
     peoples. If his Majesty the Emperor of China henceforward
     directs the government of his great Empire in the spirit of
     these ordinances, his hope that the sad consequences of the
     confusion of last year may be overcome, and permanent,
     peaceful and friendly relations between Germany and China
     may exist as before, will be realized to the benefit of both
     peoples and the whole of civilized humanity. In the sincere
     wish that it may be so, I welcome your Imperial Highness."

The Emperor's other speeches referring to the Boxer movement at this period have been adversely
commented on as showing him in the light of a cruel and blood-thirsty seeker after revenge.
This is an unjust, at least a hard, judgment. A passage in his address at Bremerhaven to the
expeditionary force when setting out for China is the main proof of the charge--in which, after
referring to the murder of von Ketteler, he said:

     "You know well you will have to fight with a cunning, brave,
     well-armed, cruel foe. When you come to close quarters with
     him remember--quarter ('Pardon' is the German word the
     Emperor used) must not be given: prisoners must not be
     taken: manage your weapons so that for a thousand years to
     come no Chinaman will dare to look sideways at a German. Act
     like men."

It is difficult, of course, to reconcile such an address with Christian humanity practised,
so far as humanity can be practised, in modern war, but it should be remembered that the Emperor
was speaking in a state of great excitement, and that, according to Chancellor Prince Bülow's
statement in the Reichstag subsequently, confirmation of the news of the murder of his Minister
to China had only reached the Emperor ten minutes before he delivered the speech.

There is one incident, however, though not a very important one, in connexion with the troubles,
which may fairly be made a matter of reproach to the Emperor--the seizure, on his order, of
the ancient astronomical instruments at Pekin and their transference to Sans Souci, in Potsdam,
where they are to be seen to the present day. The troops of all nations, it is known, looted
freely at Pekin; but the Emperor might have spared China and his own fair fame the indignity
of such public vandalism.

While writing of China it may not be superfluous to add that the Emperor's foreign policy in
the Orient cannot be expected to present exactly the same features, or proceed quite along
the same lines, as his foreign policy in Europe. By far the greater part of Europe is now as
completely parcelled out and as permanently settled as though it were a huge, well-managed
estate. The capacities of its high roads, its railways, its great rivers, with their commercial
and strategic values and relations are perfectly ascertained; and the knowledge, it is not
too much to say, is the common property of all important Governments. It is not so, or not
nearly to the same extent, in the Orient. In Europe there is little or no difficulty in distinguishing
between enterprises that are political and those that are commercial, or in recognizing where
they are both; and if a difficulty should arise it can be arranged by diplomatic conversations,
by a conference of the Powers interested, or in the last resort--short of war--by arbitration.
This is not so simple a matter in the Orient, where conditions are at once old and new, where
interests of possibly great magnitude are as yet undetermined or unappropriated, where possibly
great mineral sources are undeveloped and the capacities of new markets unascertained; where,
in short, the decisive factors of the problem are undiscovered, it may be unsuspected.

In such cases there is often no certain and readily recognizable line of demarcation between
the two kinds of enterprise; and an undertaking that may present all the appearance of being
a purely commercial scheme, and be solemnly asseverated to be such by the Power or Powers promoting
it, may turn out on closer examination to be one of great political significance and incalculable
political consequence. Of such enterprises two immediately spring to mind, the Cape to Cairo
railway and the Baghdad railway, not to mention a score of problematic undertakings in other
parts of Africa or Asia. It will be useful to keep this general consideration in view when
forming an opinion regarding the Emperor's Oriental policy. That policy is, so far, almost
entirely commercial. Long ago wars used to be made for the sake of religion, then for the sake
of territory. Now they are made for the sake of new markets.

Yet the Far East is changing with the change in conditions everywhere in modern times, and
it is evident that the premises for any conclusion as to German foreign policy there may, at
any given moment, be subject to modification. Partly owing to the growth of Germany's European
influence, and to the increase in her navy which has helped her to it, she is to be found of
recent years playing a role in the Far East which would have been unintelligible to the German
of the last generation. There are many Germans to-day, as in Bismarck's time, who ridicule
the notion that the possibilities of trade in Oriental countries justify the national risk
now run for it and the national expenditure now made upon it; but it is sometimes forgotten
that, apart from the chance of obtaining concessions for the building of railways, for the
establishment of banks, for the leasing of mines and working of cotton plantations, there is
a large German export of beads, cloth, and, in short, of hundreds of articles which appeal
to barbarian or only semi-civilized tastes.

Germany, too, looks hopefully forward to a future in which she will be supplied with the raw
material of her manufactures by her colonies, or failing that by her subjects trading abroad
in the colonies of other nations. This is one of the main objects of her Weltpolitik. As Prince
von Bülow said: "The time has passed when the German left the earth to one neighbour and the
sea to another, while he reserved heaven, where pure doctrines are enthroned, to himself;"
and again: "We don't seek to put anybody in the shade, but we demand our place in the sun;"
and the idea finds technical expression in the phrase on which Germany lays so much stress,
the "maintenance of the open door." Her policy in the Far East, as in Europe, is thus on the
whole a commercial one; she seeks there as elsewhere new markets, not new territory. Accordingly
she supports the principle of the status quo in China, and therefore raised no objection to
the Anglo-Japanese Agreement of 1902 which, among other objects, secured it.

In January, 1901, the Emperor was called to England by the sudden, and, as it was to prove,
fatal illness of his grandmother, Queen Victoria. His journey to Osborne, where he arrived
just in time to be recognized by the dying Queen, and his abandonment of the idea, impressive
and almost sacred to a Prussian King and the Prussian people, of being present on his birthday,
January 27th, at the bicentenary celebration of the foundation of the Prussian Kingdom, made
a deep and sympathetic impression on the people of England. Usually on State occasions the
Emperor does not display a countenance of good humour, or indeed of any sentiment save perhaps
that of a sense of dignity; but on the occasion in question, as he rode in the uniform of a
British Field-Marshal beside Edward VII, his looks were those of genuine sorrow. Public sympathy
was not lessened when it became known that he had mentioned the pride he felt in being privileged
to wear the uniform of two such soldiers of renown as the Duke of Wellington and Lord Roberts;
and added that the privilege would be highly estimated by the whole German army. It was a chivalrous
remark, the offspring of a chivalrous disposition.

The Emperor had hardly returned to Germany when, on February 6th, the only attack ever made
on his person occurred in Bremen. He had been at a banquet in the town hall, and was being
driven through the illuminated streets to the railway station to return to Berlin, when a half-witted
locksmith's apprentice of nineteen, Dietrich Weiland by name, flung a piece of railway iron
at him with such good aim that it struck him on the face immediately under the right eye, inflicting
a deep and nasty, but not dangerous wound. The Emperor proceeded with his journey, the doctors
attending to his injury in the train, and in a few weeks he was well again. Weiland was sent
to a criminal lunatic asylum. The attempt had, apparently, nothing to do with Anarchism or
Nihilism or the Social Democracy. When the Emperor alluded to it afterwards in his speech to
the Diet, he referred it to a general diminution of respect for authority.

"Respect for authority," he said to the Diet,

     "is wanting. In this regard all classes of the population
     are to blame. Particular interests are looked to, not the
     general well-being of the folk. Criticism of the measures of
     the Government and Throne takes the coarsest and most
     injurious forms--and hence the errors and demoralization of
     our youth. Parliament must help here, and a change must be
     made, beginning with the schools."

It was natural enough that a few days after, addressing the Alexander Regiment of Guards, who
were taking up quarters in a new barracks near the palace in Berlin, he should tell them the
barracks were like a citadel to the palace, and that, as a sort of imperial bodyguard, the
regiment "must be ready, day and night as once before"--he was referring to the "March Days"--"to
meet any attack by the citizens on the Emperor."

At Bonn in April the Emperor attended the matriculation (immatriculation, the Germans call
it) of his eldest son, the Crown Prince, at the university. He was in civil dress, one of the
rare public occasions during the reign when he has not been in uniform, but this did not prevent
him delivering a martial address to the Borussians. "I hope and expect from the younger generation,"
he said to the students,

     "that they will put me in a position to maintain our German
     Fatherland in its close and strong boundaries and in the
     congeries of German races--doing to no one favour and to no
     one harm. If, however, anyone should touch us too nearly,
     then I will call upon you and I expect you won't leave your
     Emperor sitting."

A great shout of "Bravo!" went up when the Emperor ceased, and the students doubtless all thought
what a fine thing it would be if he would only lead them straightway against those cheeky Englanders.

At the end of June, on board the Hamburg-American pleasure-steamer Princess Victoria Luise,
the Emperor pronounced the famous sentence--"Our future lies on the water." The year before
he had said something like it, and it is worth quoting as the Emperor's first explicit allusion
to Weltpolitik. "Strongly," he exclaimed,

     "dashes the beat of ocean at the doors of our people and
     compels it to preservation of its place in the world, in a
     word, to Weltpolitik. The ocean is indispensable for
     Germany's greatness. The ocean testifies that on it and far
     beyond it no important decision will be taken without
     Germany and the German Emperor."

His words on the present occasion were:

     "My entire task for the future will be to see that the
     undertakings of which the foundations have been laid may
     develop quietly and surely. We have, though as yet without
     the fleet as it should be, achieved our place in the sun. It
     will now be my task to hold this place unquestioned, so that
     its rays may act favourably on trade and industry and
     agriculture at home inside, and on our sail-sports on the
     coast--for our future lies on the water. The more Germans go
     on the sea--whether travelling or in the service of the
     State--the better. When the German has once learned to look
     abroad and afar he will lose that 'hang' towards the petty,
     the trivial, which now so often seizes him in daily life."

And he closed: "We must now go out in search of new spots where we can drive in nails on which
to hang our armour."

Early in August the Emperor was called to the death-bed of his mother, the Empress Frederick,
at her castle in Cronberg. She died on the afternoon of her son's arrival, on August 5th. The
Emperor ordered mourning throughout the Empire for six weeks, and forbade all "public music,
entertainments, theatrical or otherwise" until after the funeral. The Empress was buried in
the mausoleum attached to the Friedenskirche in Potsdam on the 13th of the month.

The delivery of a famous speech on art by the Emperor in December brings the chronicle of 1901
to a close, but perhaps it will not displease the reader if a new chapter is opened for the
purpose of quoting it and of considering the Emperor in what is a traditional Hohenzollern
relationship.

X.

THE EMPEROR AND THE ARTS

Art is a favourite subject of conversation on the Continent, where it is more popularly discussed
than in England and where authorities of all kinds are more alive to its educative capabilities.
It is eminently "safe" ground, does not savour of gossip, and no one need leave the field of
discussion with the feeling that he has been driven from it. Hence it is the salvation of diplomatists
who are apprehensive of committing their Governments or themselves when mixing in general society,
and it doubtless does good service for the Emperor also upon occasion. Indeed it is a topic
on which he speaks willingly and well.

Unfortunately for precision of thought and speech, though useful for the man in the street,
the word "art" has been pressed into the service of metaphor more than almost any other word
in language. We are told in turn that everything is an art--hair-dressing, salad-dressing (a
different kind), lying, flying, dying. The Germans are trying to make an art of life. Whistler
wrote about the "Gentle Art of Making Enemies." One hears of "artful hussies" and "artful dodgers."
People are described as "artful" in the small diplomacies of intercourse. Jugglers, acrobats,
sword-swallowers, "supers" at the theatre, the men who play the elephant in the pantomime would
all be mortified if they were not addressed as "artists," In short, everything may be called
an art.

But what, truly, is art? The question is as hard to answer satisfactorily as the questions
what is truth or what is beauty? The notion "art" usually occurs to the mind as contrasted
with the notion "nature"; the word is derived from the Sanskrit root ar, to plough, to make,
to do; and accordingly art may be taken to be something made by man, as contrasted with something
made, or grown, or given by God. How art came into existence it is of course impossible to
do more than conjecture. The necessities of primitive man may have stimulated his inventive
powers into originating and developing the useful arts for his physical comfort and convenience;
and his desire for recreation after labour, or the mere ennui of idleness, may have urged the
same powers into originating and developing the fine and plastic arts for the entertainment
of his mind. Or, lastly, if no better reason can be found, and though Sir Joshua Reynolds laid
it down that all models of perfection in art must be sought for on the earth, it may be that
seeing and feeling instinctively the glory and beauty of the Creation, mankind began gradually,
as its intelligence improved, to burn with a longing to imitate, reproduce, and represent them.

However art arose, it seems true to say, as a German writer has well said, that when a work
of art, whether a poem or a picture or a statue, causes in us the thought that so, and in no
other way, would we ourselves have expressed the idea, had we the talent, then we may conclude
that true art is speaking to us, whatever the idea to be expressed may be. Everything demands
thought, but our thoughts are an unruly folk, which never keep long on the same straight road,
and love to wander off to left and right, here finding something new and there throwing away
something old. The artist, when he conceives a plan, has to fight with the host of his thoughts
and find a way through them. They often threaten to divert him from it, but on the other hand
they often lead him to his goal by novel paths along which he finds much that is new and valuable.

This is a doctrine that, sensible though it is, would hardly be subscribed to by the Emperor,
to whom no new movement in art strongly appeals, and who thinks that such movements, unless
founded on the old classical school, the Greek and Roman school of beauty, ought, in the public
interest, to be discouraged. However, let him speak for himself. He set forth his art creed
in a speech which he delivered on December 18, 1901, to the sculptors who had executed the
Hohenzollern statues in the famous Siegesallée at Berlin, and which ran substantially as follows:--

     "I gladly seize the occasion, first of all, to express my
     congratulations and then my thanks for the manner in which
     you have assisted me to carry out my original plan. The
     preparation of the plan for the Siegesallée has occupied
     many years, and the learned historiographer of my House,
     Professor Dr. Poser, is the man who put me in a position to
     set the artists clear and intelligible tasks. Once the
     historic basis was found the work could be proceeded with,
     and when the personalities of the princes were established
     it was possible to ascertain those who had been their most
     important helpers. In this manner the groups originated and,
     to a certain extent, conditioned by their history, the forms
     of them came into existence.

     "The next most difficult question was--Was it possible, as I
     hoped it was, to find in Berlin so many artists as would be
     able to work together harmoniously to realize the programme?

     "As I came to consider the question, I had in view to show
     the world that the most favourable condition for the
     successful achievement of the work was not the appointment
     of an art commission and the establishment of prize
     competitions, but that in accord with ancient custom, as in
     the classical period, and later during the Middle Ages, was
     the case, it lay in the direct intercourse of the employer
     with the artists.

     "I am therefore especially obliged to Professor Reinhold
     Begas for having assured me, when I applied to him, that
     there was absolutely no doubt there could be found in Berlin
     a sufficiency of artists to carry out the idea; and with his
     help, and in consequence of the acquaintances I have made by
     visiting exhibitions and studios in Berlin, I succeeded in
     getting together a staff, the majority of whom I see around
     me, with whom to approach the task.

     "I think you will not refuse me the testimony that, in
     respect of the programme I drew up I have made the treatment
     of it as easy as possible, that while I ordered and defined
     the work I gave you an absolute freedom not only in the
     combination and composition, but precisely the freedom to
     put into it that from himself which every artist must if he
     is to give the work the stamp of his own individuality,
     since every work of art contains in itself something of the
     individual character of the artist. I believe that this
     experiment, if I may so call it, as made in the Siegesallée,
     has succeeded.

     "... I have never interfered with details, but have
     contented myself with simply giving the direction, the
     impulse.

     "But to-day the thought that Berlin stands there before the
     whole world with a guild of artists able to carry out so
     magnificent a project fills me with satisfaction and pride.
     It shows that the Berlin school of art stands on a height
     which could hardly have been more splendid in the time of
     the Renaissance.

     "Here, too, one can draw a parallel between the great
     artistic achievements of the Middle Ages and the
     Italians--that, namely, the head of the State, an art-loving
     prince, who offered their tasks to the artists also found
     the master round whom a school of artists could gather.

     "How is it, generally speaking, with art in the world? It
     takes its models, supplies itself from the great sources of
     Mother Nature, who, spite of her apparently unfettered,
     limitless freedom, still moves according to eternal laws
     which the Creator ordained for himself and which cannot be
     passed or violated without danger to the development of the
     world.

     "Even so it is in art; and at the sight of the beautiful
     remains of old classical times comes again over one the
     feeling that here too reigns an eternal law that is always
     true to itself, the law of beauty and harmony, of the
     aesthetic. This law is given expression to by the ancients
     in so surprising and overpowering a fashion, in so
     thoroughly complete a form that we, with all our modern
     sensibilities and with all our power, are still proud, when
     we have done any specially fine piece of work, to hear that
     it is almost as good as it was made nineteen hundred years
     ago.

     "But only almost! Under this impression I would earnestly
     ask you to lay it to heart that sculpture still remains
     untainted by so-called modern tendencies and currents--still
     stands high and chastely there! Keep her so, don't let
     yourselves be misled by human criticism or any wind of
     doctrine to abandon the principles on which she has been
     built up.

     "An art which transgresses the laws and limits I have
     indicated is art no more. It is factory work, handicraft,
     and that is a thing art should never be. Under the often
     misused word 'freedom' and her flag one falls too readily
     into boundlessness, unrestraint, self-exaggeration. For
     whoever cuts loose from the law of beauty, and the feeling
     for the æsthetic and harmonious, which every human breast
     feels, whether he can express it or not, and in his thought
     makes his chief object some special direction, some specific
     solution of more technical tasks, that man denies art's
     first sources.

     "Yet again. Art should help to exercise an educative
     influence on the people. She should offer the lower classes,
     after the hard work of the day, the possibility of
     refreshing themselves by regarding what is ideal. To us
     Germans great ideals have become permanent possessions,
     whereas to other peoples they have been more or less lost.
     Only the German people remain called to preserve these great
     ideas, to cultivate and continue them. And among these
     ideals is this, that we afford the possibility to the
     working classes to elevate themselves by beauty, and by
     beauty to enable them to abstract themselves and rise above
     the thoughts they otherwise would have.

     "When Art, as now often occurs, does nothing more than
     represent misery as still more unlovely than it is already,
     by so doing she sins against the German people. The
     cultivation of the ideal is at the same time the greatest
     work of culture, and if we wish to be and remain an example
     in this to other nations the whole people must work together
     to that end; if Culture is to fulfil her task she must
     penetrate to the lowest classes of society. That she can
     only do when art comes into play, when she raises up,
     instead of descending into the gutter.

     "As ruler of the country I often find it extremely bitter
     that art, through its masters, does not with sufficient
     energy oppose such tendencies. I do not for a moment fail to
     perceive that many an aspiring character is to be found
     among the partisans of these tendencies, who are perhaps
     filled with the best intentions but who are on the wrong
     path. The true artist needs no advertisement, no press, no
     patronage. I do not believe that your great protagonists in
     the domain of science, either in ancient Greece or in Italy
     or in the Renaissance period ever had recourse to a
     réclame such as nowadays is often made in the press in
     order to bring their ideas into prominence, but worked as
     God inspired them and let others do the talking.

     "And so must an honest, proper artist act. The art which
     descends to réclame is no art be it lauded a hundred or a
     thousand-fold. A feeling for what is beautiful or ugly has
     every one, be he ever so simple, and to educate this feeling
     in the people I require all of you. That in the Siegesallée
     you have done a piece of such work, I have specially to
     thank you.

     "This I can even now tell you--the impression which the
     Siegesallée has made on the foreigner is quite an
     overpowering one; everywhere respect for German sculpture is
     making itself perceivable. May you always remain on these
     heights, may such masters stand by my sons and sons' sons,
     should they ever come into existence! Then, I am convinced,
     will our people be in a position to love the beautiful and
     honour lofty ideals."

At the Berlin Art Museum next year, after praising the devotion of his parents to art, and
especially of his mother, "a nature," he said, "about which poesy breathed," he continued:--

     "The son of both stands before you as their heir and
     executor: and so I regard it as my task, according to the
     intention of my parents, to hold my hand over my German
     people and its growing generation, to foster the love of
     beauty in them, and to develop art in them; but only along
     the lines and within the bounds drawn strictly by the
     feelings in mankind for beauty and harmony."

The Emperor's speech to the sculptors, if it contains some questionable statements, is a thoughtful
address by one who is himself an artist, though not perhaps an artist of a high class. His
artistic endowments, transmitted from his parents, have been already indicated. In reference
to them he said to the official conducting him over the Marienburg in later years, when the
official expressed surprise at the Emperor's art-knowledge:--

     "There is nothing wonderful in it. I was brought up in an
     artistic atmosphere. My mother was an artist, and from my
     earliest youth I have been surrounded by beautiful things.
     Art is my friend and my recreation."

The highest praise of a work of art is to say of it that it pleased, or would have pleased;
his mother. Of her he said, "Every thought she had was art, and to her everything, however
simple, which was meant for the use of life, was penetrated with beauty." When giving his sanction
to a plan, a park, a statue or a building he always thinks--"Would it have pleased my parents--what
would they have said about it?" The Kaiser Friedrich Museum and the Kaiser Friedrich Memorial
Church, both in Berlin, testify to the Emperor's gratitude to his parents for their artistic
legacy.

He went, as we have seen, through the ordinary art drudgery of the school, recognizing, no
doubt, with Michael Angelo, with all good artists, that correct drawing is the foundation of
every art into which drawing enters and applying himself industriously to it. As a young soldier
at Potsdam he spent a good deal of his time, during the three years from 1880 to 1883, practising
oil-painting under the guidance of Herr Karl Salzmann, a distinguished Berlin painter. Among
the results of this instruction was a picture which the princely artist called "The Corvette--Prince
Adalbert in the Bay of Samitsu," now hanging in the residence of his brother, Prince Henry,
at Kiel; and two years later, as his interest in the navy grew, a "Fight between an Armoured
Ship and a Torpedo-boat." Innumerable aquarelles and sketches, chiefly of marine subjects,
were also the fruit of this period.

The Emperor has constantly cultivated free and friendly intercourse with the best artists of
his own and other nations, and been continually engaged devoting time and money to the art
education of his people. The admirable art exhibitions in Berlin of the best examples of painting
by English, French, and American artists, which he personally promoted and was greatly interested
in, may be recalled as instances. If his efforts in encouraging art among his people have not
been so successful as his imperial activities in other directions, the reason is not any fault
on his part, but simply that art refuses to be, in Shakespeare's phrase, "tongue-tied by authority."

This was shown by the chorus of unfavourable criticism which the speech to the sculptors drew
forth. No one questioned the sincerity of the Emperor or the magnanimity of his aims, nor was
the criticism wholly caused by the suspicion that it savoured of the "personal regiment" under
which the people were growing impatient; but many thought he was pushing the dynastic principle
too far and unduly interfering with liberty of thought and judgment, and that there was something
Oriental as well as selfish in occupying with a gallery of his ancestors, the majority of whom
were, after all, very ordinary people, one of the fairest spots in the capital. Perhaps, however,
what was most objected to was his trying to drive the art of the nation into a groove, the
direction given by himself: in trying to inspire it with a particular spirit and that an ancient
not a modern spirit, when he ought to let the spirit come of its own accord out of the mind
of the people--the mind of many millions, not the mind of one man, however high his rank. Politics
and government might be things in which he had a right to an authoritative voice, but art,
like religion, the people considered to be a matter for individual taste and judgment.

Yet something may be advanced in favour of the Emperor. His recommendation, for in fact it
was and could be only that, was quite in keeping with the traditions of his office and the
people's own view of royal government. The speech, as was admitted, was suggested by no mere
dilettante's vanity, but, as is evident from his words at the Art Museum, by the conviction
that just as it is the imperial duty to provide an efficient army and navy, so it is the imperial
duty to use every personal and private, as well as every public and official, effort to provide
the people with an art as efficient, as honest, and as clean; and it was inevitable that the
art the Emperor recommended was that which he believed, and still believes, to be in conformity
with the ideals, as he interprets them, or would have them to be, of the Germanic race.

The speech itself is interesting as showing the Emperor's attitude towards art and artists
and his personal conception of art and its nature. His attitude is evidently that of the art-loving
prince of whom he speaks in the address, a royal Maecenas or di Medici, who gathers artists
round him; but he means to use them, not so much perhaps for art's sake, as for the instruction
and elevation of his folk. A very laudable aim; only, as it happens, the folk in this matter
desire themselves to decide what is improving and elevating for them and what is not. They
are not willing to leave the exclusive choice to the Emperor.

The Emperor, again, would give the artist the freedom to put into his work "that from himself
which any artist must, if he is to give the work the stamp of his own individuality." This
attitude, too, is admirable, but on the other hand lies the danger, such is poor human nature,
that the individuality will be that which the Emperor wishes it to be, not the artist's independent
individuality To the foreign eye all the Hohenzollern statues in the Siegesallee, with the
exception possibly of two or three, seem to have much the same individuality, though that again
may be due to the nature of the subject and the foreigner's inherent and ineradicable predispositions.

Thirdly, art, the Emperor says, can only be educative when it elevates instead of descending
into the gutter. Hogarth descended into the gutter. Gustav Doré depicts the horrors of hell.
Yet both Hogarth and Doré were great artists, and educative too. The Emperor was here thinking
of the Berlin Secession, a school just then starting, eccentric indeed and far from "classical,"
but which nevertheless has since produced several fine artists. The Emperor, it would appear,
thinks that the antique classical school is the true and only good school for the artist. Very
likely most artists will agree with him-- at least as a foundation; but the belief, it also
appears, is not considered in Germany, or outside of it, to justify the Emperor, as Emperor,
in discouraging all other schools and particularly the efforts of modern artists in their non-classical
imaginings.

The Emperor says art "takes its models, supplies itself from the great sources of Mother Nature."
With all courtesy to the Emperor one may suggest that art, and sane art, takes its models not
only from Mother Nature, but also from an almost as prolific a maternal source, namely imagination;
and that imagination is limited by no eternal laws we know of, or can even suspect. Accordingly
it is useless to check, or try to check, the imagination by telling it to work in a certain
direction--so long, naturally, as the imagination is not obviously indecent or insane.

Again, the Emperor says that in classical art there reigns an eternal law, the "law of beauty
and harmony, of the aesthetic" which is expressed in a "thoroughly complete form" by the ancients.
It is admittedly a delightful and admirable form, but is it thoroughly complete? Is it the
last and only form; and may not the very same law be found by experiment to be at work in future
art that cannot be called classical, as it was found to be at work in the various noble schools
since classical times? One must agree with the Emperor that the Greeks and Romans illustrated
the "law of beauty and harmony, of the esthetic, in a wonderful manner." But it was wonderfully
done for their age and intellect. They did not exhaust the beautiful and harmonious: far from it.

Neither the world nor mankind has been standing still ever since; certainly the mind of man
has not, even though his senses have undergone no elemental change. Paganism was succeeded
by Christianity, and with Christianity came a new art canon, new forms of beauty and harmony--the
Early Italian. The age of reason followed, bringing with it the Baroque and Rococo canons:
and as time went on, and the world's mind kept working, came other canons still. The most recent
canon appears to be that of naturalism (the Emperor's "gutter ") with which artists are now
experimentalizing. None of the canons, be it noticed, destroyed the canon that preceded, because
beauty and harmony are indestructible and imperishable. "A thing of beauty is a joy for ever."

But not only the mind of man kept changing: the world itself and its civilization--by war,
by treaty, by science, by invention, by art itself--kept changing, and is changing now. Development,
physical as well as social, has been constant, and the changes accompanying it have inspired,
and are inspiring, artists with new ideas to which they are always trying to give expression.
The subjects of art have enormously multiplied. Those introduced by sport of all kinds, by
the development of the theatre, by the newly-found effects of light and colour, need only be
mentioned as examples capable of suggesting beauties and harmonies unknown to and unsuspected
by the ancients. Hence, in addition to the classical art of the day, there is room for the
"new art," the secessionist, the futurist, the impressionist, even the cubist, or whatever
the experimental movement may call itself. And any day any of these movements may lead to the
establishment of a new and admirable school of genuine art as beautiful as the classical, if
in a different manner. The world has no idea of the surprises in all directions yet in store
for it.

The Emperor, too, is at one with all the world in assuming that art, to deserve the name, must
possess the quality of beauty. He speaks of "beauty and harmony," but let it be taken that
he understands beauty to include harmony. Now, as has been suggested, to answer the question,
what is beauty, satisfactorily, is no easy matter. In immediate proximity to it lies the question,
what is ugliness? It might be argued that nothing in nature is ugly, and that the word was
introduced to express what is merely an inability on the part of mankind to perceive the beauty
which constitutes nature; and it certainly is possible that, were man endowed with the mind
of God, instead of with only some infinitesimal and mysterious emanation of it, he would find
all things in creation, all art included, beautiful. The author of the Book of Genesis asserts
that when God had finished making the world He looked upon His handiwork and saw that it was
good. There is one advantage in adopting this view, and no small one, that a belief in its
truth must impel us to look for beauty and goodness in all things, whether in art or nature--and
even in the Secession. Perhaps, however, we shall not be far from the truth in saying, as regards
art, that all things in creation are beautiful, that there are degrees in beauty of which ugliness
is the lowest, and that the truly inspired artist can make all things, ugliness included, beautiful.

The Emperor thinks the appreciation of beauty is one of our innate ideas, like the ability
to distinguish between right and wrong, which we call conscience. There is no agreement among
thinkers on the point, and it may be that both beauty and conscience are relative, and simply
the result of environment and education. Certainly there is no standard of beauty, and more
certainly still, not of feminine beauty. The Mahommedan admires a woman who has the nose of
the parrot, the teeth of the pomegranate seed, and the tread of the elephant.

But though there is no complete standard of beauty about which all people, at all times, in
all countries, are agreed, there are two elements of beauty which may be said to have been
standardized, at least for the civilized world, by the early Greeks and Romans. These elements
are simplicity and harmony, simplicity being the forms of things most directly and pleasingly
appealing to the eye and most easily reaching the common understanding, while harmony is the
combination of parts most nearly identical with the lines, contours, and proportions of nature.
These are two essentials of good sculpture, and the Emperor was talking to sculptors and perhaps
thinking only of sculpture.

Yet simplicity and harmony alone do not constitute beauty, while on the other hand beauty may
take very complicated forms. A third element one may suggest is essential, and its indescribable
nature causes all the difficulty there is in defining beauty. This third element is--charm.
A work of art, to be beautiful, must charm, and to different people different things are charming.
Plato's theory is that the sense of beauty is a dim recollection of a standard we have seen
in a heavenly pre-existence. Accepting it as as good an explanation of charm as we can get,
we may conclude by defining beauty as, in its highest form, a combination of simplicity and
harmony, resulting in charm.

The Emperor says: "To us Germans great ideals have become permanent possessions, whereas to
other peoples they have been more or less lost." The remark is not one of those best calculated
to promote friendly feelings on the part of other peoples towards Germany or its Emperor. It
is like his declaration that Germans are the "salt of the earth," and of a piece with the aggressive
attitude of intellectual superiority adopted by many Germans towards other nations--one reason,
by the way, for German unpopularity in the world. But is it true? Germany has great ideals
in permanent possession, but are they more or less lost to other peoples? It is at least doubtful.
Great ideals are the permanent possession of every great people; it is these ideals that have
made them great; and they are no less great if they differ according to the nature and conditions
of each great people. One might go further, indeed, and say that great ideals are the common
property and permanent possession of all great peoples. It is a hard saying that any one people
has a monopoly of them. The contribution of every great nation to the common stock of great
ideals is incalculable, and it would be interesting to investigate which nation is most successfully
working out its great ideals in practice.

The truth is the German ideal of beauty in art is not, generally speaking, the same as that
of the Anglo-Saxon or Latin foreigner. The art ideals of the Anglo-Saxon and Latin races in
this respect are for the most part Greek, while those of the German race are for the most part
Roman; and in each case the ideals are the outcome of the spirit which has had most influence
on the mind and manners of the different races. The Greek philosophic and aesthetic spirit
has chiefly influenced Anglo-Saxon and Latin art ideals: the Roman spirit, particularly the
military spirit and the spirit of law, have chiefly influenced German ideals: and, as a result,
arrived at through ages during which events of epoch-making importance caused many successive
modifications, while the Anglo-Saxon and Latin races are most impressed by such qualities as
lightness and delicacy of outline, round and softly-flowing curves and elegance of ornamentation,
the German appears, to the Anglo-Saxon and Latin, to be more impressed by the elaborate, the
gigantic, the Gothic, the grotesque, the hard, the made, the massive, and the square. In both
styles are to be found "beauty and harmony, the aesthetic," to quote the Emperor, but they
appeal differently to people of different national temperaments. To the Anglo-Saxon and Latin
in general, therefore, German art, and particularly German sculpture and architecture, while
impressive and admirable, lack for most foreigners the entirely indescribable quality we have
called "charm."

The true artist, the Emperor says, needs no advertisement, no press, no patronage. The Emperor
is right. The true artist, once he begins to produce first-rate work, will obtain instant recognition,
and his work will begin to sell, not perhaps at prices the same kind of work may bring later,
but at prices sufficient to support the artist and his family in reasonable comfort. If it
does not, he is not producing good work and had better turn his attention to something else.
As a matter of fact very few true artists do advertise, use the press, or seek patronage. The
artist does not go to the press or the patron, for nowadays, the moment the artist does excellent
work, the press and the patron go to him, and, when he is very exceptionally good, he is advertised
and patronized until he is sick of both advertisement and patronage.

Naturally it is different in the case of the artist who is not excellently good, but the Emperor
was not considering such. These artists too, however, insist on living and must find a market
for their wares. It is an age of advertisement, the growth of new economic conditions, for
advertisement creates as well as reveals new markets. Hence the vast host of mediocrities,
not only in art but in almost every field of human activity, nowadays advertise and seek patronage
because only in this way can they find purchasers and live. These artists, often men of talent,
dislike having to advertise; they would rather work for art's sake, but having to do so need
not hinder them from working for art's sake, since all that is meant by that much misused phrase
is that while the artist is working he shall not think of the reward of his work, but simply
and solely of how to do the best work he can.

Before leaving the Emperor's speech one is tempted to inquire what should be the attitude of
a sovereign towards art and artists. For the Englishman the doctrine of Individualism--the
thing he is so apt to make a fetish of--gives an answer, and, it may be, the right one. The
Englishman will probably say that if in any one province of life more than in another freedom
should be allowed to originality of conception regarding the form as well as the substance,
the manner as well as the matter, it is in the province of art, always provided, of course,
that the artist is sane and not guilty of indecency. The artist, like the poet, is born not
made; you cannot make an artist, you can only make an artisan. The artist, who represents the
Creator, the creative faculty, can influence man: man cannot, and should not try to, influence
the artist, but can, and should only, offer him the materials for his art, smooth the way for
his endeavour, encourage him in it by sympathetic yet candid criticism, and above all, when
he can afford it, by buying the result of his endeavour when it is successful.

This should be the attitude of both monarch and Maecenas: it is an attitude of benevolent neutrality.
"I know," such a Maecenas might say to the artist,

     "that your artistic faculties move in an atmosphere above as
     well as on the earth, as I know that above the atmosphere of
     oxygen and hydrogen which envelops the earth there is an
     ethereal, a rarefied atmosphere, which stretches to worlds
     of which all we know is that they exist. If your spirit can
     soar above this earthly atmosphere, well and good. I, for
     one, shall do nothing to limit or hinder it: I shall only
     welcome and applaud and reward whatever effort you make to
     bring our inner being a step, long or short, nearer to the
     source of celestial light. Consequently, I offer you no
     instructions and put no fetters on your imagination."

It takes all sorts of art to make an artistic world, as it takes all sorts of people to make
the human world: a world with only classic art in it would be as uninteresting and unthinkable
as a world in which every one was of the same character, occupation, and dress.

But it is time to consider the Emperor a little more in detail in relation to his connexion
with the arts. If he were not a first-rate monarch he would probably be a first-rate artist.
He said once that if he were to be an artist, he would be a sculptor. But if he is not a professional
artist he is a connoisseur, a dilettante in the right sense, a lover of the arts, an art-loving
prince. The painter Salzmann tells us how he used to go to the Villa Liegnitz in Potsdam to
give Prince William lessons, and how the Empress, then Princess William, used to sit with the
pupil and his teacher, discussing technical and art questions. A result of the teaching, in
addition to the pictures mentioned elsewhere, was an oil-painting, a sea-fight, which still
hangs in the Ravene Gallery in Berlin.

In the spring of 1886 the Prince sent his teacher a sketch for criticism. Salzmann wired his
opinion to Potsdam, and a telegram came back, "What does 'wind too anxious' mean? is it so
stormily painted that you shuddered at it, or is it not stormy enough?" Salzmann is also authority
for the statement that the Prince sent in a sea-piece to the annual Berlin Art Exhibition.
It was placed ready to be judged, but suddenly disappeared. The Emperor William, it appeared,
had decided that it would not do for a future Emperor to compete with professional artists
or run the risk of sarcastic public criticism. Naturally since he came to the throne the Emperor
has never had time to cultivate his talent as a painter, but has always fed his eyes and mind
on the best kind of painting, and brings his sense of form and colour to bear on everything
he does or has a voice in.

That the Emperor's own taste in painting is of a "classical" kind in a very catholic sense
was shown by the personal interest he took in getting together and having brought to Berlin
the exhibition of old English masters in 1908. At his request the English owners of many of
these treasures agreed to lend them for exhibition in Germany, submitting thereby to the risk
of loss or damage, displaying an unselfish disposition to aid in elevating the taste of a foreign
people, and at the same time giving Germans a better and more tangible idea of the nation which
could produce artists of such nobility of feeling and marvellous technical capacity. The Emperor
paid several visits to the exhibition and thousands of Berlin folk followed his example, so
that the beauty of the works of Gainsborough, Raeburn, Lawrence, Hoppner, and Romney was for
months a topic of enthusiastic conversation in the capital.

Encouraged by this success, the Emperor next caused a similar exhibition of French painters
to be arranged. The Rococo period was now chosen, many lovely specimens of the art of Watteau,
Lancret, David, Vigee, Lebrun, Fragonnard, Greuze, and Bonnat were procured, and again the
Berliner was given an opportunity not only of enjoying an artistic treat of a delightful kind,
but of comparing the impressions made on him by the art spirits of two other nations. The opening
of this French exhibition was made by the Emperor the occasion of emphasizing his conciliatory
feelings towards France, for he attended an evening entertainment at the French Embassy given
specially in honour of the occasion.

A third art exhibition followed in 1910--that of two hundred American oil paintings brought
to Berlin and shown in the Royal Academy of Arts on the Panser Platz. They included works by
Sargent, Whistler, Gari Melchior, Leon Dabo, Joseph Pennell, and many others. The suggestion
for this exhibition did not proceed from the Emperor, but in all possible ways he gave the
exhibition his personal support. On returning from inspecting it he telegraphed to the American
Ambassador in Berlin, Dr. D. J. Hill, to express the pleasure he had derived from what he had
seen. Nor was such a mark of admiration surprising. The exhibition was nothing short of a revelation,
going far to dissipate the German belief--perhaps the English belief also--that America possesses
no body of painters of the first rank.

Again we have recourse to the marine painter, Herr Salzmann. Wired for by the Emperor, the
painter got to the palace at 10.15 PM. When he arrived the Emperor cried out, "So, at last!
Where have you been hiding yourself? I have had Berlin searched for you." The Emperor and Empress
and suite had just returned from the theatre and were standing about the room. It turned out
that the Emperor wanted the painter to help him sketch a battleship of a certain design he
had in mind, to see how it would look on the water. In the middle of the room an adjutant stood
and read out a speech made by a Radical deputy in the Reichstag that day, and the Emperor made
occasional remarks about it, though at the same time he was engaged with the ship. The painter
does not forget to add that he "was provided with a good glass of beer."

The Emperor is reported to be a capital "sitter." He had the French painter Borchart staying
with him at Potsdam to paint his portrait. Borchart describes him as an ideal model, so still
and patiently did he sit, and this at times for more than two hours. He talked freely during
the sittings. "I don't want to be regarded as a devourer of Frenchmen," was a remark made on
one of these occasions; on another he praised President Loubet; and on a third he had a good
word even for the Socialist Jaures. When Borchart had finished and naively expressed satisfaction
with his own work the Emperor said, "Na, na, friend Borchart, not so proud; it is for us to
criticize."

As the Emperor is a lover of the "classical" in painting and sculpture, it is not strange to
find him an admirer of the classical in music and recommending it to his people as the best
form of musical education. He holds that there is much in common between it and the folk-songs
of Germany. At Court he revived classical dances like the minuet and the gavotte. He is devoted
to opera and never leaves before the end of the performance. Concerts frequently take place
in the royal palaces at Potsdam and Berlin, items on the programme for them being often suggested
by the Emperor. The programme is then submitted to him and is rarely returned without alteration.
Not seldom the concert is preceded by a rehearsal, which the Emperor attends and which itself
has been carefully rehearsed beforehand, as the Emperor expects everything to run smoothly.
At these rehearsals he will often cause an item to be repeated. Bach and Handel are his prime
favourites. He is no admirer of Strauss. Wagner he often listens to with pleasure, and especially
the "Meistersinger," which is his pet opera. Of Italian operas Verdi's "Aida" and Meyerbeer's
"Huguenots" are those he is most disposed to hear.

He has been laughed at for once attempting musical composition. The "Song to Aegir," which
he composed in 1894 at the age of thirty-five (when he should have known better), was, he told
the bandmaster of a Hannoverian regiment, suggested to him by the singing of a Hannoverian
glee society. It is a song twenty-four lines long, with the inevitable references to the foe,
and the sword and shield, and whales and mermaids, and the God of the waves, who is called
on to quell the storm. The lady-in-waiting who wrote the "Private Lives of the Emperor and
His Consort" tells with much detail how the song was really written, not by the Emperor, but
almost wholly by a musical adjutant. It does not greatly matter, but it is likely that the
Emperor is responsible for the text if he did not compose the music.

One of the best and most interesting descriptions of his kindly and characteristic way of treating
artists is that given by the late Norwegian composer, Eduard Grieg.

"The other day," writes the composer,

     I had a chance to meet your Kaiser. He had already expressed
     a desire last year to meet me, but I was ill at that time.
     Now he has renewed his wish, and therefore I could not
     decline the invitation. I am, as you know, little of a
     courtier. But I said to myself, 'Remember Aalesund' (for
     which the Emperor had sent a large sum after a great fire),
     and my sense of duty conquered. Our first meeting was at
     breakfast at the German Consul's house. During the meal we
     spoke much about music. I like his ways, and--oddly
     enough--our opinions also agreed. Afterwards he came to me
     and I had the pleasure of talking with him alone for nearly
     an hour. We spoke about everything in heaven and
     earth--about poetry, painting, religion, Socialism, and the
     Lord knows what besides.

     "He was fortunately a human being, and not an Emperor. I was
     therefore permitted to express my opinions openly, though in
     a discreet manner, of course. Then followed some music. He
     had brought along an orchestra (!), about forty men. He took
     two chairs, placed them in front of all the others, sat down
     on one, and said, 'If you please, first parquet'; and then
     the music began--Sigurd Jorsalfar, Peer Gynt, and many other
     things.

     "While the music was being played he continually aided me in
     correcting the tempi and the expression, although as a
     matter of course I had not wanted to do such a thing. He was
     very insistent, however, that I should make my intentions
     clear. Then he illustrated the impression made by the music
     by movements of his head and body. It was wonderful
     (göttlich) to watch his serpentine movements à la
     Orientalin while they played Anitra's dance, which quite
     electrified him.

     "Afterwards I had to play for him on the piano, and my wife,
     who sat nearest him, told me that here too he illustrated
     the impression made on him, especially at the best places.

     "I played the minuet from the pianoforte sonata which he
     found 'very Germanic' and powerfully built: and the 'Wedding
     Day at Troldhaugen,' which piece he also liked.

     "On the following day there was a repetition of these things
     on board the Hohenzollern, where we were all invited to
     dinner at eight o'clock. The orchestra played on deck in the
     most wondrously bright summer night while many
     hundreds--nay, I believe thousands--of rowboats and small
     steamers were grouped about us. The crowd applauded
     constantly and cheered enthusiastically whenever the Kaiser
     became visible. He treated me like a patient: he gave me his
     cloak and sent to fetch a rug, with which he covered me
     carefully.

     "I must not forget to relate that he grew so enthusiastic
     over 'Sigurd Jorsalfar,' the subject of which I explained to
     him as minutely as possible, that he said to von Hiilsen,
     the intendant of the royal theatres, who sat next to him:
     'We must produce this work! (This was not done, however.)

     "I then invited von Hiilsen to come to Christiania to
     witness a performance of it, and he said he was very eager
     to so. All in all this meeting was an event and a surprise
     in the best sense. The Kaiser, certainly, is a very uncommon
     man, a strange mixture of great energy, great self-reliance,
     and great kindness of heart. Of children and animals he
     spoke often and with sympathy, which I regard as a
     significant thing."

On the New Year's Day following the Emperor sent the composer a telegram reading: "To the northern
bard to listen to whose strains has always been a joy to me I send my most sincere wishes for
the new year and new creative activity." In 1906, Grieg, having once more been the Emperor's
guest, writes to a friend:

     "He was greatly pleased with having become once more a
     grandfather. He called to me across the table (referring to
     'Sigurd'), 'Is it agreeable if I call the child Sigurd?' It
     must be something Urgermanisch."

The following anecdote may remind the reader of the amusing scene in Offenbach's "Grand Duchesse
of Gerolstein," where the Grand Duchess, talking to the guardsman whose athletic proportions
she admires, addresses him with a rising scale of "corporal" ... "sergeant" ... "lieutenant"
... "captain" ... "colonel," and so on, as she talks, only, however, later cruelly to re-descend
the scale to the very bottom when her courtship is ineffectual. The Emperor is at an organ
recital in the Kaiser William Memorial Church; the recital is over and the Court party are
about to go when he greets the organist, Herr Fischer: "My cordial thanks for the great pleasure
you have given us, Herr Professor." "Pardon, your Majesty," replies the organist, with commendable
presence of mind: "May I venture to thank your Majesty for the great mark of favour?" "What
mark of favour?" asks the Emperor, a little puzzled. "The fact is your Majesty has more than
once addressed me as 'professor,' although--" "Why, that's good," exclaims the Emperor, with
a great laugh, "very good indeed;" and striking his forehead in self-reproach with the palm
of his hand: "so forgetful of me! Then you are not professor, after all! Well, no matter; what
is not, may be--what I said, I said. Adieu, Herr Professor" and goes off smiling. The very
same evening--need it be added?--Herr Fischer had his patent as Professor in his pocket.

The Emperor is particularly fond of "my Americans" among his operatic artists. A good deal
of jealousy has at times been shown by the German employees of the opera towards the American
artists entertained there and a deputy has more than once protested in the Reichstag against
the number employed; but the jealousy rarely results in harm, and on the whole harmony--as
it should--prevails.

Every year brings hundreds of American girl students to Berlin, Munich, or Dresden to learn
singing and perhaps carry off the great prize of a "star" engagement at one or the other of
the German royal opera houses. The experiences of some of these students are tragedies on a
small scale, and in one or two instances have been known to end in death, destitution, or dishonour.
The explanation is simple. Such students, filled with the high hopes inspired by artistic ambition
and the artist's imagination, fail to ask themselves before going abroad if nature has endowed
them with the qualities and powers requisite for one of the most laborious and, for a girl,
exposed professions in the world; and do not learn until it is too late that they lack the
resolute character, the robust health, and the talent which, not singly but all three combined,
are essential to success.

Such a girl often starts on her enterprise poorly supplied with means to pay for her board,
lodging, clothes, recreation, and instruction; she changes from the dearer sort of pension
to the cheaper, finding her company and surroundings at each remove more doubtful and more
dangerous; she grows disappointed and disheartened, perhaps physically ill; comes under bad
influences, male or female; until finally the curtain falls on a sufferer rescued at the last
moment by relatives or friends, or on a young life blasted. Such tragic cases, it should be
said, are far from common, but they occur, and the possibility of their occurrence ought to
be taken into account at the outset by the intending music or art student.

Happily there is another and brighter side to the picture, and the intending student with money
and friends will enjoy and gain advantage from a few years of continental life, even though
exceptional strength and genuine talent be wanting. Perhaps this is the experience of the great
majority of art students in Germany. Freedom from the restraints and conventions of life at
home compensates for the inconveniences arising from narrow means. Novelty of scenery and surroundings
has a charm that is constantly recurring. The kindness and helpfulness of fellow-countrymen
and countrywomen make the wheels of daily life roll smoothly. The freemasonry of art, its optimism
and hope, and the pleasure and interest of its practice, investigation, and discussion wing
the hours and spur to effort.

But to return to the Emperor. As a lad at Cassel he was fond of playing charades, and is reported
to have had a knack of quickly sketching the scenario and dramatis personæ of a play which
he and his young companions would then and there proceed to act. One of these plays had Charlemagne
for its subject, with a Saxon feudatory, whose lovely daughter, Brunhilde, scorns her father
for his submission. A banquet, ending in a massacre of Charlemagne's followers, is one of the
scenes, and as Brunhilde is in love with Charlemagne's son she helps him to escape from the
massacre. The Play ends with the suicide of Brunhilde. As he grew up the Emperor's interest
in the theatre increased, and, as has been seen, when he succeeded to the throne he resolved
to make use of it for educating and elevating the public mind. As patriotism consists largely
in knowing and properly appreciating history he has always encouraged dramatists who could
portray historic scenes and events, particularly those with which the Hohenzollerns were connected.
Hence his support of Josef Lauff, Ernst von Wildenbruch and Detlev von Liliencron. Not long
ago he arranged a series of performances at Kroll's Theatre intended for workmen only. The
performances were chiefly of the stirring historical kind--Schiller's "Wilhelm Tell," Goethe's
"Götz von Berlichingen," Kleist's "Prince von Hornburg," and others that require huge processions
and a crowded stage. The general public were not supposed to attend the performances, but tickets
were sent to the factories and workshops for sale at a low price.

In 1898 the Emperor publicly stated his views about the theatre. "When I mounted the throne
ten years ago," he said,

     "I was, owing to my paternal education, the most fervent of
     idealists. Convinced that the first duty of the royal
     theatres was to maintain in the nation the cultivation of
     the idealism to which, God be thanked, our people are still
     faithful, and of which the sources are not yet nearly
     exhausted, I determined to myself to make my royal theatres
     an instrument comparable to the school or the university
     whose mission it is to form the rising generation and to
     inculcate in them respect for the highest moral traditions
     of our dear German land. For the theatre ought to contribute
     to the culture of the soul and of the character, and to the
     elevation of morals. Yes, the theatre is also one of my
     weapons.... It is the duty of a monarch to occupy himself
     with the theatre, because it may become in his hands an
     incalculable force."

If the Emperor has any special gift it is an eye for theatrical effect in real life as well
as on the stage. He had a good share of the actor's temperament in his younger years, and until
recently showed it in the conduct of imperial and royal business of all kinds. He still gives
it play occasionally in the royal opera houses and theatres. The Englishman, whose ruler is
a civilian, is not much impressed by pageantry and pomp, except as reminding him of superannuated,
though still revered, historical traditions and events that are landmarks in a great military
and maritime past. He would not care to see his King always, or even frequently, in uniform,
as he would be apt to find in the fact an undue preference for one class of citizens to another.
His idea is that the monarch ought to treat all classes of his subjects with equal kingly favour.
In Germany it is otherwise. The monarchy relies on military force for its dynastic security,
as much, one might perhaps say, as for the defence of the country or the keeping of the public
peace, and consequently favours the military. Moreover, the peoples that compose the Empire
have been harassed throughout the long course of their history by wars; a large percentage
of their youth are serving in the standing army or in the reserves, the Landwehr and the Landsturm;
finally the Germans, though not, as it appears to the foreigner, an artistic people, save in
regard to music, enjoy the spectacular and the theatrical.

Accordingly we find the Emperor artistically arranging everything and succeeding particularly
well in anything of an historical and especially of a military nature. The spring and autumn
parades of the Berlin garrison on the Tempelhofer Field--an area large enough, it is said,
to hold the massed armies of Europe--with their gatherings of from 30,000 to 60,000 troops
of all arms, serve at once to excite the Berliner's martial enthusiasm, while at the same time
it obscurely reminds him that if he treats the dynasty disrespectfully he will have a formidable
repressive force to reckon with. Hence at manoeuvres the Emperor is accompanied by an enormous
suite; whenever he motors down Unter den Linden it is at a quick pace, which impresses the
crowd while it lessens the chances of the bomb-thrower or the assassin. The scene of the reception
of Prince Chun at the New Palace was a great success as an artistic performance, and the pageants
at the restoration of the Hohkönigsburg and at the Saalburg festival were of the same artistic
order.

The Emperor's theatrical interest and attention when in Berlin are concentrated on the Berlin
Royal Opera and the Berlin Royal Theatre (Schauspielhaus), and when in Wiesbaden on the Royal
Festspielhaus at that resort. When in his capital he goes very rarely to any other place of
theatrical entertainment. His interest in the royal opera and theatre both in Berlin and Wiesbaden
is personal and untiring, and he has done almost as much or more for the adequate representation
of grand opera in his capital as the now aged Duke of Saxe-Meiningen did, through his famous
Meiningen players, for the proper presentation of drama in Germany generally. The revivals
of "Aida" and "Les Huguenots" under the Emperor's own supervision are accepted as faultless
examples of historical accuracy in every detail and of good taste and harmony in setting.

In a well-informed article in the Contemporary Review Mr. G. Valentine Williams writes:

     "Once the rehearsals of a play in which the Emperor is
     interested are under way he loses no time in going to the
     theatre to see whether the instructions he has appended to
     the stage directions in the MS. are being properly carried
     out. Some morning, when the vast stage of the opera is
     humming with activity, the well-known primrose-coloured
     automobile will drive up to the entrance and the Emperor,
     accompanied only by a single adjutant, will emerge. In three
     minutes William II will be seated at a big, business-like
     table placed in the stalls, before him a pile of paper and
     an array of pencils. When he is in the house there is no
     doubt whatever in anyone's mind as to who is conducting the
     rehearsal. His intendant stands at his side in the darkened
     auditorium and conveys his Majesty's instructions to the
     stage, for the Emperor never interrupts the actors himself.
     He makes a sign to the intendant, scribbles a note on a
     sheet of paper, while the intendant, who is a pattern of
     unruffled serenity, just raises his hand and the performance
     abruptly ceases. There is a confabulation, the Emperor, with
     the wealth of gesture for which he is known, explaining his
     views as to the positions of the principals, the dresses,
     the uniforms, using anything, pencil, penholder, or even his
     sword to illustrate his meaning. Again and again up to a
     dozen times the actors will be put through their paces until
     the imperial Regisseur is entirely satisfied that the right
     dramatic effect has been obtained.

     "All who have witnessed the imperial stage-manager at work
     agree that he has a remarkable flair for the dramatic.
     Very often one of his suggestions about the entrances or
     exits, a piece of 'business' or a pose, will be found on
     trial to enhance the effect of the scene. A story is told of
     the Emperor's insistence on accuracy and the minute
     attention he pays to detail at rehearsal. After his visit to
     Ofen-Pest some years ago for the Jubilee celebration, which
     had included a number of Hungarian national dances, the
     Emperor stopped a rehearsal of the ballet at the Berlin
     opera while a Czardas was in progress and pointed out to the
     balletteuses certain minor details which were not correct.

     "In his attitude to the Court actors and actresses he
     displays the charm of manner which bewitches all with whom
     he comes in contact. He calls them 'meine Schauspieler,'
     which makes one think of 'His Majesty's Servants' of
     Shakespeare's Globe Theatre. This practice sometimes has
     amusing results. Once when the Theatre Royal comedian, Dr.
     Max Pohl, was suddenly taken ill the Emperor said to an
     acquaintance, 'Fancy, my Pohl had a seizure yesterday;' and
     the acquaintance, thinking he was referring to a pet dog
     replied, commiseratingly: 'Ah, poor brute!' After rehearsal
     the Emperor often goes on to the stage and talks with the
     actors about their parts.

     "A Hohenzollern must not be shown on the stage without the
     express permission of the Emperor, and in general, if
     politics are mixed up in an objectionable way with the
     action of the drama, the play will be forbidden. Above all
     the Emperor will not tolerate indecency, nor the mere
     suggestion of it, in the plays given at the royal theatres.
     An anecdote about Herr Josef Lauff's Court drama 'Frederick
     of the Iron Tooth,' dealing with an ancestor, an Elector of
     Brandenburg, and on which Leoncavallo, at the Emperor's
     request, wrote the opera 'Der Roland von Berlin,' shows the
     Emperor's strictness in this respect. Frederick of the Iron
     Tooth is a burgher of Berlin who leads a revolt against the
     Elector. In order to heighten Frederick's hate, Lauff wove
     in a love theme into the drama. The wife of Ryke,
     burgomaster of Berlin, figured as Frederick's mistress and
     egged on her lover against the Elector, because the latter
     had hanged her brothers, the Quitzows, notorious outlaws of
     the Mark Brandenburg. The Emperor cut out the whole episode
     when the play was submitted to him in manuscript. The
     marginal note in his big, bold handwriting ran: 'Eine
     Courtisane kommt in einem Hohenzollerstück nicht vor' (A
     courtesan has no place in a Hohenzollern drama)."

The Emperor's constant change of uniform is often said to be a sign of his liking for the theatrical,
and writers have compared him on this account with lightning-change artists like the great
Fregoli. Rather his respect for and reliance on the army, a sense of fitness with the occasion
to be celebrated, a feeling of personal courtesy to the person to be received, are the motives
for such changes. The Paris Temps published the following incident apropos of the Emperor's
visit to England in November, 1902. When, on arriving at Port Victoria, the royal yacht Hohenzollern
came in view, the members of the English Court sent to welcome the Emperor saw him through
their glasses walking up and down the captain's bridge wearing a long cavalry cloak over a
German military uniform. When they stepped on board they found him in the undress uniform of
an English admiral. They lunched with him, and in the afternoon, when he left for London, he
was wearing the uniform of an English colonel of dragoons. Arrived in London, he left for Sandringham,
and must have changed his dress en route, for he left the train in a frock-coat and tall hat.

Perhaps the most notable theatrical event of the reign hitherto was the production at the Royal
Opera in 1908 of the historic pantomime "Sardanapalus." The Emperor's idea, as he said himself,
was to "make the Museums speak," to which a Berlin critic replied, "You can't dramatize a museum."
The ballet, for it was that as well as a pantomime, engrossed the Emperor's time and attention
for several weeks. He spent hours with the great authority on Assyriology, Professor Friedrich
Delitzsch, going over reliefs and plans taken from the Kaiser Friedrich Museum or borrowed
from museums in Paris, London, and Vienna, decided on the costumes and designed the war-chariots
to be used in the ballet. The notion was to rehabilitate the reputation of Asurbanipal, the
second-last King of Assyria, whom the Greeks called "Sardanapalus," who reigned in Nineveh
six hundred years before Christ, over Ethiopia, Babylon and Egypt, and whom Lord Byron, accepting
the Greek story, represented as the most effeminate and debauched monarch the world had ever known.

Professor Delitzsch, with a wealth of recondite learning, showed, on the contrary, that Sardanapalus
was a wise and liberal-minded monarch, who, rather than fall into the hands of the Medes, built
himself a pyre in a chamber of his palace and perished on it with his wives, his children,
and his treasure. The whole four acts, with the various ballets, gave a perfectly faithful
representation of the period as described by Diodorus and Herodotus, and as plastically shown
on the reliefs discovered at Nineveh by Sir Henry Layard and subsequently by German excavators.
Over £10,000 was spent upon the production, and the public were worked up to a great pitch
of curiosity concerning it. But it was a complete failure as far as the public were concerned.
"Heavens!" exclaimed one critic, "what a bore!" This, however, was not the fault of the Emperor,
but was due to want of interest on the part of a public whose enthusiasm for the events and
characters of times so remote could only be kindled by a genius, and a dramatic one. The Emperor
is no such genius, nor had he one at command.

XI.

THE NEW CENTURY (continued)

1902-1904

King George V has hardly been sufficiently long on the English throne for a contemporary to
judge of the personal relations that exist between his Majesty and the Emperor as chief representatives
of their respective nations. The King of England was, until June, 1913, hindered by various
circumstances from paying a visit to the Court of Berlin, and rumours were current that relations
between the two rulers were not as friendly as they might and should be. There is now every
indication that though the relations of people to people and Government to Government vary
in degrees of coolness or warmth, the two monarchs are on perfectly good terms of cousinship
and amity.

A visit paid by King George, when Prince of Wales, to the Emperor in Potsdam at the opening
of 1902 testified to the goodwill that then subsisted between them. It was the evening before
the Emperor's birthday, when the Emperor, at a dinner given by the officers of King Edward's
German regiment, the 1st Dragoon Guards, addressed the English Heir Apparent in words of hearty
welcome. The address was not a long one, but in it the Emperor characteristically seized on
the motto of the Prince of Wales, "Ich dien" (I serve), to make it the text of a laudatory
reference to his young guest's conduct and career. In its course the Emperor touched on the
Prince's tour of forty thousand miles round the world, and the effect his "winning personality"
had had in bringing together loyal British subjects everywhere, and helping to consolidate
the Imperium Britannicum, "on the territories of which," as the Emperor said, doubtless with
an imperial pang of envy, "the sun never sets." The Prince, in his reply, tendered his birthday
congratulations, and expressed his "respect" for the Emperor, the appropriate word to use,
considering the ages and royal ranks of the Emperor and his younger first cousin.

With 1902 may be said to have begun the Emperor's courtship (as it is often called in Germany)
of America. His advances to the Dollar Princess since then have been unremitting and on the
whole cordially, if somewhat coyly, received.

The growth of intercourse of all kinds between Germany and the United States is indeed one
of the features of the reign. There are several reasons why it is natural that friendly relationship
should exist. It has been said on good authority that thirty millions of American citizens
have German blood in their veins. Frederick the Great was the first European monarch to recognize
the independence of America. German men of learning go to school in America, and American men
of learning go to school in Germany. A large proportion of the professors in American universities
have studied at German universities. The two countries are thousands of miles apart, and are
therefore less exposed to causes of international jealousy and quarrel between contiguous nations.
On the other hand, the new place America has taken in the Old World, dating, it may be said
roughly, from the time of her war with Spain (1898); the increase of her influence in the world,
mainly through the efforts of brave, benevolent, and able statesmen; the expansion of her trade
and commerce; the increase of the European tourist traffic;--these factors also to some extent
account for the growth of friendly intercourse between the peoples.

Nor should the bond between the two countries created by intermarriage be overlooked. If the
well-dowered republican maid is often ambitious of union with a scion of the old European nobility,
the usually needy German aristocrat is at least equally desirous of mating with an American
heiress notwithstanding the vast differences in race-character, political sentiment, manners,
and views of life--and especially of the status and privileges of woman--that must fundamentally
separate the parties. Great unhappiness is frequently the result of such marriages, perhaps
it may be said of a large proportion of international marriages, but cases of great mutual
happiness are also numerous, and help to bring the countries into sympathy and understanding.
Prince Bülow, when Chancellor, reminded the Reichstag, which was discussing an objection raised
to the late Freiherr Speck von Sternburg, when German Ambassador to America, that he had married
an American lady, that though Bismarck had laid down the rule that German diplomatists ought
not to marry foreigners, he was quite ready to make exceptions in special cases, and that America
was one of them. The Emperor is well known to have no objection to his diplomatic representative
at Washington being married to an American, but rather to prefer it, provided, of course, that
the lady has plenty of money.

A difficulty between Germany and Venezuela arose in 1902 owing to the ill-treatment suffered
by German merchants in Venezuela in the course of the civil war in that country from 1898 to 1900.

The merchants complained that loans had been exacted from them by President Castro and his
Government, and that munitions of war and cattle had been taken for the use of the army and
left unpaid for. The amount of the claim was 1,700,000 Bolivars (francs), a sum that included
the damage suffered by the merchants' creditors in Germany. Similar complaints were made by
English and Italian merchants. After several efforts on the part of Germany to obtain redress
had failed, negotiations were broken off, the diplomatic representative of Germany was recalled,
and finally the combined fleets of England, Germany, and Italy established a blockade of the
Venezuelan coast. The difficulty was eventually referred to the Hague Court of Arbitration,
which allowed the claims and directed payment of them on the security of the revenues of the
customs ports of La Guayra and Puerto Cabella.

For a time the action of the Powers caused discussion of the Monroe doctrine on both sides
of the Atlantic. On this side it was pointed out that American susceptibilities had been respected
by the conduct of the Powers in not landing troops, while on the other side there were not
wanting voices to exclaim that the naval demonstration went too near being a breach of the
hallowed creed--"hands off" the Western Hemisphere. The Monroe doctrine, it may be recalled,
was contained in a message of President James Monroe, issued on February 2, 1823. It was drawn
up by John Quincey Adams, and declared that the United States "regarded not only every effort
of the Holy Alliance to extend its system to the Western Hemisphere as dangerous to the peace
and freedom of the United States, but also every interference with the object of subverting
any independent American Government in the light of unfriendliness towards America"; and it
went on to declare that "the Continents of America should no more be regarded as fields for
European colonization."

The day, of course, may come when the American claim to the control, if not physical possession,
of half the earth will be questioned by the Powers of Europe; but at present, as far as Germany
is concerned, and notwithstanding the absurd idea that Germany plans the seizure one day of
Brazil, the doctrine is of merely academic interest. For a few days four years later it became
the subject of lively discussion in Germany and America owing to the first American Roosevelt
professor, Professor Burgess, referring to it in his inaugural lecture before the Emperor and
Empress as an "antiquated theory." As soon, however, as it became apparent that Professor Burgess
was giving utterance to a purely personal opinion, and was not in any sense the bearer of a
message on the subject from the President, the discussion dropped.

Another American episode of the year was the visit of Prince Henry, the Emperor's brother,
to the United States. Prince Henry left for America in February. The visit was in reality made
in pursuance of the Emperor's world-policy of economic expansion, but there were not a few
politicians in England and America to assert that it was part of a deep scheme of the Emperor's
to counteract too warm a development of Anglo-American friendship. However that may be, the
visit was a striking one, even though it gave no great pleasure to Germans, who could not see
any particular reason for it, nor any prospect of it yielding Germany immediate tangible return
for trouble and expense. Prince Henry, it is said, though the most genial and democratic of
Hohenzollerns, was a little taken back at the American freedom of manners, the wringing of
hands, the slapping on the back, and other republican demonstrations of friendship; but he
cannot have shown anything of such a feeling, for he was fêted on all sides, and soon developed
into a popular hero.

One of the incidents of the visit, previously arranged, was the christening of the Emperor's
new American-built yacht, Meteor III, by Miss Alice Roosevelt, the President's daughter. On
February 25th the Emperor received a cablegram from Prince Henry: "Fine boat, baptized by the
hand of Miss Alice Roosevelt, just launched amid brilliant assembly. Hearty congratulations;"
and at the same time one from the President's daughter: "To his Majesty the Kaiser, Berlin--Meteor
successfully launched. I congratulate you, thank you for the kindness shown me, and send you
my best wishes. Alice Roosevelt."

During the visit the Emperor cabled to President Roosevelt his thanks and that of his people
for the hospitable reception of his brother by all classes, adding:

     "My outstretched hand was grasped by you with a strong,
     manly, and friendly grip. May Heaven bless the relations of
     the two nations with peace and goodwill! My best compliments
     and wishes to Alice Roosevelt."

Reference to this cordial electric correspondence may close with mention of a telegram sent
in reply to a message from Mr. Melville Stone, of the American Associated Press:

     "Accept my thanks for your message. I estimate the great and
     sympathetic reception (it was a banquet) given to my dear
     brother by the newspaper proprietors of the United States
     very highly."

Prince Henry returned to Germany on March 17th, a Doctor of Law of Harvard University.

There have been moments when people in America were influenced by other sentiments than those
of entirely respectful admiration for the Emperor. It was with mixed feelings that the American
public heard the news of his telegraphed offer to President Roosevelt in May, 1902, when, as
the telegram said, the Emperor was "under the deep impression made by the brilliant and cordial
reception" given to his brother, Prince Henry, to present to the American nation a statue of--Frederick
the Great, and coupled with the offer a proposal that the statue should be erected--of all
places--in Washington! No one doubted the Emperor's sincere desire to pay the highest compliment
he could think of to a people to whom he felt grateful for the honour done to Germany in the
person of his brother, but nearly every one smiled at the simplicity, or, as some called it,
the want of political tact shown by offering the statue of a ruler whose name, to the vast
majority of Americans, is synonymous with absolute autocracy, to a republic which prides itself
on its civic ways and love of personal freedom. The gift was accepted by the American Government
in the spirit in which it was offered, the spirit of goodwill. And why not? To the Emperor
his great ancestor's effigy is no symbol of autocracy, but the contrary, for to the Emperor
and his subjects Frederick the Great is as much the Father of Prussia, the man who saved it
and made it, as Washington was the Father of America. Besides, the spirit in which a gift is
offered, not its value or appropriateness, is the thing to be considered.

Irritation in England was still strong against Germany on account of the latter's easily understood
race-sympathy with the Boers during the war just over, but the fact did not prevent the Emperor
from accepting King Edward's invitation to spend a few days at Sandringham with him in November
this year on the occasion of his birthday. The Emperor took the Empress and two of his sons
with him. The hostile temper of the time, both in England and Germany, was alluded to in a
sermon preached in Sandringham Church by the then Bishop of London. It was notable for its
insistence on the necessity of friendlier relations between England, Germany, and America,
the three great branches of the Teutonic race. After the service the Emperor is reported to
have exclaimed to the Bishop: "What you said was excellent, and is precisely what I try to
make my people understand."

As a proof that this was no merely complimentary utterance, but the expression of a thought
which is constantly in the Emperor's mind, an incident which happened at Kiel regatta in the
month of June previously may be recalled. The American squadron, under the late Admiral Cotton,
was paying an official visit to the Emperor during the Kiel "week" as a return honour for the
visit of the Emperor's brother, Prince Henry of Prussia, to the United States the year before.
There was a constant round of festivities, and among them a lunch to the Emperor on board the
Admiral's flagship, the Kearsarge. Lunch over, the Emperor was standing in a group talking
with his customary vivacity, but, as customary also, with his eyes taking in his surroundings
like a well-trained journalist. Suddenly he noticed a set of flags, those of America, Germany,
and England, twined together and mingling their colours in friendly harmony. He walked over,
gathered the combined flags in his hand, and turning to the Admiral exclaimed in idiomatic
American: "See here, Admiral; that is exactly as it should be, and is what I am trying for
all the time."

While in England the Emperor, in company with Lord Roberts and Sir Evelyn Wood, inspected his
English regiment, the 1st Royal Dragoons. A curious and amusing feature of the visit was a
lecture before the Royal Family at Sandringham by a German engineer, for whom the Emperor acted
as interpreter, on a novel adaptation of spirit for culinary, lighting, and laundry purposes.
The Emperor's practical illustration of the use of the new heating system, as applied to the
ordinary household flatiron, is said to have caused great merriment among his audience.

Germany's home atmosphere about this time was for a moment troubled by an exhibition of the
Emperor's "personal regiment" in the form of a telegram to the Prince Regent of Bavaria, known
in Germany as the "Swinemunde Despatch." The Bavarian Diet, in a fit of economy, had refused
its annual grant of £5,000 for art purposes. The Emperor was violently angry, wired to the
Prince Regent his indignation with the Diet and offered to pay the £5,000 out of his own pocket.
It was not a very tactful offer, to be sure, though well intended; and as his telegram was
not an act of State, "covered" by the Chancellor's signature, while the Bavarians in particular
felt hurt at what they considered outside interference, Germans generally blamed it as a new
demonstration of autocratic rule.

One or two other art incidents of the period may be noted. A domestic one was the gift to the
Emperor by the Empress of a model of her hand in Carrara marble, life-sized, by the German
sculptor, Rheinhold Begas. The Emperor, it is well known, has no special liking for the companionship
of ladies, but he confesses to an admiration for pretty feminine hands. Another incident was
the Emperor's order to the painter, Professor Rochling, to paint a picture representing the
famous episode in the China campaign, when Admiral Seymour gave the order "Germans to the Front."
It is to the present day a popular German engraving. The year was also remarkable for a visit
to Berlin of Coquelin aîné, the great French actor. The Emperor saw him in "Cyrano de Bergerac,"
was, like all the rest of the play-going world, delighted with both play and player, and held
a long and lively conversation with the artist. Lastly may be mentioned a telegram of the Emperor's
to the once-famed tragic actress, Adelaide Ristori, in Rome, congratulating her on her eightieth
birthday and expressing his regret that he had never met her. A basket of flowers simultaneously
arrived from the German Embassy.

We are now in 1903. During the preceding years the Emperor's thoughts, as has been seen, were
occupied with art as a means of educating his folk, purifying their sentiments, and, above
all, making them faithful lieges of the House of Hohenzollern. By a natural association of
ideas we find him this year thinking much and deeply about religion; for, though artists are
not a species remarkable for the depth or orthodoxy of their views on religious matters, art
and religion are close allies, and probably the greater the artist the more real religion he
will be found to have.

In this year, accordingly, the Emperor made his remarkable confession of religious faith to
his friend, Admiral Hollmann. He had just heard a lecture by Professor Delitzsch on "Babel
und Bibel," and as he considered the Professor's views to some extent subversive of orthodox
Christian belief, he took the opportunity to tell his people his own sentiments on the whole
matter. In writing to Admiral Hollmann he instructed him to make the "confession" as public
as possible, and it was published in the October number of the Grenzboten, a Saxon monthly,
sometimes used for official pronouncements. The Emperor's letter to Admiral Hollmann contained
what follows:--

     "I distinguish between two different sorts of Revelation: a
     current, to a certain extent historical, and a purely
     religious, which was meant to prepare the way for the
     appearance of the Messiah. As to the first, I should say
     that I have not the slightest doubt that God eternally
     revealed Himself to the race of mankind He created. He
     breathed into man His breath, that is a portion of Himself,
     a soul. With fatherly love and interest He followed the
     development of humanity; in order to lead and encourage it
     further He 'revealed' Himself, now in the person of this,
     now of that great wise man, priest or king, whether pagan,
     Jew or Christian. Hammurabi was one of these, Moses,
     Abraham, Homer, Charlemagne, Luther, Shakespeare, Goethe,
     Kant, Kaiser William the Great--these He selected and
     honoured with His Grace, to achieve for their peoples,
     according to His will, things noble and imperishable. How
     often has not my grandfather explicitly declared that he was
     an instrument in the hand of the Lord! The works of great
     souls are the gifts of God to the people, that they may be
     able to build further on them as models, that they may be
     able to feel further through the confusion of the
     undiscovered here below. Doubtless God has 'revealed'
     Himself to different peoples in different ways according to
     their situation and the degree of their civilization. Then
     just as we are overborne most by the greatness and might of
     the lovely nature of the Creation when we regard it, and as
     we look are astonished at the greatness of God there
     displayed, even so can we of a surety thankfully and
     admiringly recognize, by whatever truly great or noble thing
     a man or a people does, the revelation of God. His influence
     acts on us and among us directly.

     "The second sort of Revelation, the more religious sort, is
     that which led up to the appearance of the Lord. From
     Abraham onward it was introduced, slowly but foreseeingly,
     all-wisely and all-knowingly, for otherwise humanity were
     lost. And now commences the astonishing working of God's
     Revelation. The race of Abraham and the peoples that sprang
     from it regard, with an iron logic, as their holiest
     possession, the belief in a God. They must worship and
     cultivate Him. Broken up during the captivity in Egypt, the
     separated parts were brought together again for the second
     time by Moses, always striving to cling fast to monotheism.
     It was the direct intervention of God that caused this
     people to come to life again. And so it goes on through the
     centuries till the Messiah, announced and foreshadowed by
     the prophets and psalmists, at last appears, the greatest
     Revelation of God to the world. Then he appeared in the Son
     Himself; Christ is God; God in human form. He redeemed us,
     He spurs us on, He allures us to follow Him, we feel His
     fire burn in us, His sympathy strengthens us, His
     displeasure annihilates us, but also His care saves us.
     Confident of victory, building only on His word, we pass
     through labour, scorn, suffering, misery and death, for in
     His Word we have God's revealed Word, and He never lies.

     "That is my view of the matter. The Word is especially for
     us evangelicals made the essential thing by Luther, and as
     good theologian surely Delitzsch must not forget that our
     great Luther taught us to sing and believe--'Thou shalt
     suffer, let the Word stand.' To me it goes without saying
     that the Old Testament contains a large number of fragments
     of a purely human historical kind and not 'God's revealed
     Word.' They are mere historical descriptions of events of
     all sorts which occurred in the political, religious, moral,
     and intellectual life of the people of Israel. For example,
     the act of legislation on Sinai may be regarded as only
     symbolically inspired by God, when Moses had recourse to the
     revival of perhaps some old-time law (possibly the codex, an
     offshoot of the codex of Hammurabi), to bring together and
     to bind together institutions of His people which were
     become shaky and incapable of resistance. Here the historian
     can, from the spirit or the text, perhaps construct a
     connexion with the Law of Hammurabi, the friend of Abraham,
     and perhaps logically enough; but that would no way lessen
     the importance of the fact that God suggested it to Moses
     and in so far revealed Himself to the Israelite people.

     "Consequently it is my idea that for the future our good
     Professor would do well to avoid treating of religion as
     such, on the other hand continue to describe unmolested
     everything that connects the religion, manners, and custom
     of the Babylonians with the Old Testament. On the whole, I
     make the following deductions:--

     "1. I believe in One God.

     "2. We humans need, in order to teach Him, a Form,
     especially for our children.

     "3. This Form has been to the present time the Old Testament
     in its existing tradition. This Form will certainly
     decidedly alter considerably with the discovery of
     inscriptions and excavations; there is nothing harmful in
     that, it is even no harm if the nimbus of the Chosen People
     loses much thereby. The kernel and substance remain always
     the same--God, namely, and His work.

     "Never was religion a result of science, but a gushing out
     of the heart and being of mankind, springing from its
     intercourse with God."

It is anticipating by a few months, but part of a speech the Emperor made in Potsdam at the
confirmation of his two sons, August Wilhelm and Oscar--two Hohenzollerns as yet not distinguished
for anything in particular--may be quoted in this connexion. Naturally he began by comparing
his sons' spiritual situation with that of a soldier on the day he takes the oath of allegiance:
they were vorgemerkt, that is, predestined as "fighters for Christ." "What is demanded of you,"
the imperial father went on, "is that you shall be personalities. This is the point which,
in my opinion, is the most important for the Christian in daily life. For there can be no doubt
that we can say of the person of the Lord, that He is the most 'personal personality' who has
ever wandered among the sons of men.... You will read of many great men--savants, statesmen,
kings and princes, of poets also: but nevertheless no word of man has ever been uttered worthy
of comparison with the words of Christ; and I say this to you so that you may be in a position
to bear it out when you are in the midst of life's turmoil and hear people discussing religion,
especially the personality of Christ. No word of man has ever succeeded in making people of
all races and all people enthusiastic for the same cause, namely, to imitate Him, even to sacrifice
their lives for Him. The wonder can only be explained by assuming that what He said were the
words of the living God, which are the source of life, and continue to live thousands of years
after the words of the wise have been forgotten. That is my personal experience and it will
be yours.

"The pivot and turning-point," he continued,

     "of our mortal life, especially of a life full of
     responsibility and labour--that is clearer and clearer to me
     every year I live--lies simply and solely in the attitude a
     man adopts towards his Lord and Saviour;"

and he concludes by exhorting his sons to disregard what people may say about the cult of Christ
being irreconcilable with the tasks and responsibilities of "modern" life, but simply to do
their best, whatever their occupation, to become a personality after Christ's example.

This is a sound and just statement of Christian faith, and it is quoted here to justify the
view that the Emperor's soldiers and his Dreadnoughts, his mailed fist and shining armour,
are built and put on in the spirit of precaution and defence. The attitude, it cannot of course
be denied, is based on the un-Christlike assumption that all men (and particularly all peoples
and their governments and diplomatists) are liars; but in his favour it may be urged that for
that saying the Emperor could cite Biblical authority. And yet there is an inconsistency; for
the saying is that of one of those same wise men whose words, the Emperor admits, are transitory
and mortal.

It is possible that the Emperor had a presentiment of some kind that his life was now in danger,
and that the presentiment may have attuned his thoughts to meditation on Christ's life and
teaching; for it is a fact, well worthy of remark, that in the fear of death man's one and
only relief and consolation is the knowledge that there was, and is, a mediator for him with
his Creator. The address at his sons' confirmation was delivered on October 17th, and on Sunday
morning, November 8th all the world, it is hardly too much to say, was astonished and pained
to learn, by a publication in the Official Gazette, that the Emperor the day before had had
to submit to a serious operation on his throat. The announcement spoke of a polypus, or fungoid
growth, which had had to be removed; but all over the world the conclusion was come to that
the mortal affliction of the father had fallen on the son and that the Emperor was a doomed
man. Most providentially and happily it was nothing of the sort. On the 9th the Emperor was
out of bed and signing official papers, on the 15th he was allowed to talk in whispers, and
on the 17th it was declared by the physicians that all danger was over and that no more bulletins
would be issued. On December 14th the Emperor received a congratulatory visit from the President
of the Reichstag, who reported to Parliament his impression that "the Emperor had completely
recovered his old vigour (great applause) and that his voice was again clear and strong."

The Emperor had passed through what one may suppose to have been the darkest hour of his life.
He was naturally in high spirits, and a few days after went to Hannover, where he made a martial
speech in which he toasted the German Legion for having "by its unforgettable heroism, in conjunction
with Blücher and his Prussians, saved the English army from destruction at Waterloo," a view,
of course, which to an Englishman has all the charm of novelty.

One or two further memorable incidents of 1903 may be recorded. Theodore Mommsen, the now aged
historian of Rome, the greatest scholar of his time, died in November. He was in his day a
Liberal parliamentarian of no mean ability; but for such men there is no career in Germany.
However, as it turned out, the German people's loss proved to be all the world's gain. A son
of the historian now represents a district of Berlin in the Reichstag. Two years before the
historian's death an exchange of telegrams in Latin took place between him and the Emperor.
The occasion was the Emperor's laying the foundation-stone of a museum on the plateau where
the old Roman castle, known as the Saalburg, stands. The Emperor telegraphed:

     "Theodoro Mommseno, antiquitatum romanarum investigatori
     incomparabili, praetorii Saalburgensis fundamenta jaciens
     salutem dicit et gratias agit Guilelmus Germanorum
     Imperator."

To which the historian, with a modesty equal to his courtesy, replied: "Germanorum principi,
tam majestate quam humanitate, gratias agit antiquarius Lietzelburgensis."

Mention may also be made of a very characteristic speech of the Emperor's this year at Cüstrin,
where he was unveiling a monument to a favourite Hohenzollern, the Great Elector. Cüstrin,
it will be remembered, is the town where Frederick the Great, another of the Emperor's favourites,
was imprisoned by an angry father, along with his friend Lieutenant Katte, when Frederick was
trying to escape the parental cruelty and violence.

Referring to Frederick's declaration that he was the "first servant of the State," the Emperor
said:--

     "He could only learn to be so by subordination, by
     obedience, in a word by what we Prussians describe as
     discipline. And this discipline must have its roots in the
     King's house as in the house of the citizen, in the army as
     among the people. Respect for authority, obedience to the
     Crown, and obedience to parental and paternal
     influence--that is the lesson the memories of to-day should
     teach us. From these attributes spring those which we call
     patriotism, namely the subordination of the individual ego,
     of the individual subject, to the welfare of all. It is what
     is particularly needed at the present time."

The Emperor was, of course, thinking of the Social Democrats. Having finished his speech, he
went and for a while stood thoughtfully at the historic window of Cüstrin Castle, from which
Frederick watched the execution of his unfortunate companion, Katte.

Only the year 1904 separates us from the Emperor's Morocco adventure. The economic ideas which
have been referred to as the basis of German foreign policy were germinating in his mind, and
the plans for at least a partial realization of them were working in his head. Addressing the
chief burgomaster of Karlsruhe in April, just a year before he started for Tangier, he spoke
of Weltpolitik. "You are right," he told the burgomaster,

     "in saying that the task of the German people is a hard
     one.... I hope our peace will not be disturbed, and that the
     events that are now happening will open our eyes, steel our
     courage, and find us united, if it should be necessary for
     us to intervene in world-policy."

The Emperor had, no doubt, specially in mind the birth of the Anglo-French Entente and the
war between Russia and Japan, both events forming the dominant factors of the political situation
at this time. The Russo-Japanese War arose primarily from the unwillingness of Russia to evacuate
Manchuria after the Boxer troubles in China. The incidents of the war are still fresh in public
memory.

It need only be recalled here that Germany was neutral throughout the conflict, that both President
Roosevelt and the Emperor offered their services as mediators in its course, and that on the
capture of Port Arthur by Admiral Nogi, in January, 1905, the Emperor telegraphed his bestowal
of the Ordre pour le Mérile on General Stoessel, the Russian defender of Port Arthur, and on
Admiral Nogi.

In the troubled history of Anglo-German relations is to be recorded the presence, in June of
this year, of King Edward VII at Kiel with a squadron of battleships to pay an official visit
to his nephew. The two fleets, those sunny days, formed a splendid spectacle--the two mightiest
police forces, the Emperor would probably agree in saying, the world could produce. In fact,
the Emperor had some such thought in mind, for he addressed King Edward as follows:--

     "Your Majesty has been welcomed by the thunder of the guns
     of the German fleet. It is the youngest navy in the world
     and an expression of the reviving sea-power of the new
     German Empire, founded by the late great Emperor, designed
     for the protection of the Empire's trade and territory, and
     intended, equally with the German army, for the preservation
     of peace."

One or two other incidents of interest in the Emperor's life may close the record of this year.
One of them was the arrival of the Italian composer, Leoncavallo, in Berlin, to hand the Emperor
the text of the opera "Der Roland von Berlin," Leoncavallo had composed at the Emperor's express
request. Roland was a "strong, valiant and pious" knight of Charlemagne's time--like the Emperor,
let us say--who originally hailed from Brittany--that lone and lovely Cinderella of France--and
afterwards, for some unexplained reason, came to be the type of municipal independence in Germany.

During the summer the Emperor and the Empress made an excursion, when on the Saalburg, to the
statues of the Roman Emperors Hadrian and Severus.

It sounds a little gloomy as a quotation, but, fortunately for Germany and the Emperor, for
"nunc" can be put, pace the poet, the indefinite, yet all too definite, "aliquando."

XII.

MOROCCO

1905

The Emperor started for Tangier towards the end of March, but before that he had got through
imperial business of a miscellaneous kind which exemplifies the life he leads practically at
all times.

In January he had exchanged telegrams with the Czar and the Mikado concerning his bestowal
of the Order of Merit on Generals Stoessel and Nogi, asking permission to bestow the Order
and receiving expressions of consent. Another telegram went to the composer Leoncavallo in
Naples, congratulating him on the success there of his "Roland von Berlin." In February, the
Emperor opened an international Automobile Exhibition in Berlin, received Prince Charles, Infanta
of Spain, and the King of Bulgaria, unveiled a monument to his ancestor, Admiral Coligny, who
was killed in the Bartholomew massacre, listened to a naval captain's lecture on Port Arthur,
opened the new Lutheran Cathedral (the "Dom") in Berlin, telegraphed thanks to the University
of Pennsylvania for its doctor's degree which the Emperor said he was proud to know George
Washington once held, attended a lecture by Professor Delitzsch on "Assyria," and was present
at a memorial service for the painter Adolf von Menzel, who died this month. In March he visited
Heligoland, inspected the progress of some alterations at the Royal Opera in Berlin, and sent
the Gold Medal for Science to Manuel Garcia, on the occasion of the latter's hundredth birthday,
as recognition of his invention of the laryngoscope, or mirror for examining the throat.

Just before starting for Morocco the Emperor made the speech in which he claimed that Germans
are the "salt of the earth." In the same speech he had previously declared that as the result
of his reading of history he meant never to strive after world-conquest. "For what," he asked,

     "has become of the so-called world-empires? Alexander the
     Great, Napoleon the First, all the great warrior heroes swam
     in blood and left behind them subjugated peoples, who at the
     first opportunity rose and brought their empires to ruin.
     The world-empire which I dream of will be, above all, the
     newly established German Empire, enjoying on every side the
     most absolute confidence as a peaceable, honest, and quiet
     neighbour, not founded on conquest by the sword, but on the
     mutual confidence of nations, striving for the same
     objects."

While on the way to Morocco the Emperor put in at Lisbon to pay a visit to the King of Portugal,
and with the latter attended a meeting of the Geographical Society. From Lisbon he went to
Gibraltar, and from thence, after a few hours' stay, he started for Tangier.

The Morocco incident, as it is often too lightly called, should rather be regarded as a phase
in the world's economic history and an occurrence of moment for the future peace of all nations
than the mere game on the diplomatic chess-board many writers appear to consider it. According
to French critics, and they may be taken as representative of the feeling everywhere prevalent
during the seven years the incident lasted, its origin was a matter of alliances and the balance
of power. Germany, according to these writers, wanted to preserve the position of hegemony
in Europe she had obtained under Bismarck, and consequently felt annoyed by the Triple Entente,
which robbed her of her traditional friend Russia and set up an effective counterpoise to the
Triple Alliance of which Germany was the leading Power, and on which she could, or believed
she could, rely for support in case of war with France. In going, therefore, to Tangier, at
the moment when her defeat by Japan rendered Russia for the time being of little or no account
in the considerations of diplomacy, the Emperor, according to these writers, in reality was
making a determined attempt to break the Entente combination and protect his Empire from political
isolation or inferiority.

It is quite possible that such were the motives of the Emperor's action, but if so he was building
better than he knew. The vicissitudes of the Moroccan episode are described briefly below,
yet some remarks of a general nature as to the whole episode considered in its historical perspective
may be permitted in advance. But first, what is historical perspective? It may perhaps be defined
as that view of history which shows in its true proportions the relative importance of an event
to other events which strongly and permanently leave their mark on the character and development
of the period or generation in which they occur. Regarded from this standpoint the Morocco
incident can claim an exceptional position, for it was the first occasion in modern diplomatic
history on which a Great Power officially proclaimed urbi et orbi the doctrine of the "open
door," the doctrine of equal economic treatment for all nations for the benefit of all nations,
and was willing to go to war in support of it.

It was not, of course, the first time the demand for the open door had been made; loudly and
bloodily, too; since most wars from those of Greece and Rome to the war between Russia and
Japan of recent years were waged with the intention, or in the hope, of opening, by conquest
or contract, territory of the enemy to the mercantile enterprise of the victors. But this was
the open door in a very selfish and restricted sense, and though many isolated events had occurred
of late years, the international agreements regarding China among them, proving that the idea
of the open door was gaining strength as a right common to all nations, it was not until the
Emperor went to Tangier that a Great Power risked a great war in order to exemplify and enforce it.

The Emperor and his advisers were probably not moved by any altruistic sentiments in the matter,
and their sole reason for action may have been to see that German subjects should not be excluded
from Moroccan markets. It may also be that Germany was resolved that if there was to be a seizure
of Morocco she should get her share of the territory to be distributed, notwithstanding her
refusal, revealed by the late Foreign Secretary, Kiderlen-Waechter, in the Reichstag's confidential
committee, to accede to Mr. Chamberlain's proposal, made some time before the incident, for
a partition of the Shereefian Empire. But the acquisition of territory does not seem to have
been the mainspring of her policy, while from the beginning to the end of the incident, however
theatrical and questionable her diplomatic conduct may have been at moments during the negotiations,
she was throughout consistent and successful in her demand for economic equality all round.
This is a great gain for the future, for, with the world nearly all parcelled out, economic
considerations, which are almost in all cases adjustable, are now the most weighty factors
in international relations.

Apart from this view of the incident, it is clear that Germany was pursuing her claim to a
"place in the sun," and she did so to the unconcealed annoyance of nations which up to then
had never thought of her in a rôle she appeared to be aspiring to, that of a Mediterranean
Power. To these nations she seemed an intruder in a sphere to which she neither naturally nor
rightfully belonged. Evidently she had no political or historical claims in Morocco, while
her commercial interests were less than 10 per cent of Morocco trade.

A narration of the incident may, for the sake of convenience, though involving some anticipation
of the future, be dealt with in three sections: from the Anglo-French Agreement of 1904, and
the Emperor's visit to Tangier in March, 1905, to the Act of Algeciras a year subsequently;
from the Act of Algeciras to the Franco-German Agreement of 1909; and from that to the--let
it be hoped--final settlement by the Franco-German Agreement of November 5, 1911.

The Anglo-French Agreement of 1904 gave France a free hand in Morocco in consideration of France
giving England a similar position in Egypt and the Nile Valley. The state of things in Morocco
at this time was one of discord and rebellion. In the midst of it, the Sultan, El Hassan, died,
and was succeeded by Abdul Aziz, a minor. On coming of age Abdul Aziz showed his inability
to rule, the country fell again into disorder and Abdul turned for help to France. Meantime
England and France had been negotiating without the knowledge of Germany, and in April, 1904,
the Anglo-French Agreement was signed. It was accompanied by an official declaration that France
had no intention of changing the political status of Morocco, but only contemplated a policy
there of "pacific penetration and reforms." Thereupon Prince von Bülow, the German Chancellor,
stated in the Reichstag that the German Government had no reason to assume that the Agreement
was directed against any Power and that "it appeared to be an attempt by England and France
to come to a friendly understanding respecting their colonial differences."

"From the standpoint of German interests," continued the Chancellor, "we have no objections
to raise to it." No parliamentary reference was made to Morocco until March, 1905, when the
Chancellor spoke of the approaching visit of the Emperor to Tangier, and it became evident
that the Emperor and his advisers had come to the conclusion that, as France seemed about assuming
a full protectorate over Morocco, as she had tried to do in Tunis, and that this, in accordance
with French policy, would result in the exclusion of other nationals from commerce and the
development of the country, Germany must take action. Prince von Bülow explained that "his
Majesty had, in the previous year, declared to the King of Spain that Germany pursued no policy
of territorial acquisition in Morocco." He continued:

     "Independent of the visit, and independent of the
     territorial question, is the question whether we have
     economic interests to protect in Morocco. That we have
     certainly. We have in Morocco, as in China, a considerable
     interest in the maintenance of the open door, that is the
     equal treatment of all trading nations."

And he concluded by saying:

     "So far as an attempt is being made to alter the
     international status of Morocco, or to control the open door
     in the economic development of the country, we must see more
     closely than before that our economical interests are not
     endangered. Our first step, accordingly, is to put ourselves
     into communication with the Sultan."

The visit came off as announced, and the Emperor, on arriving at Tangier, made a speech which
caused a sensation in every diplomatic chancellery; indeed, in all parts of the world. The
Emperor's speech, which was addressed to the German colonists on March 31, 1905, was as follows:--

     "I rejoice to make acquaintance with the pioneers of Germany
     in Morocco and to be able to say to them that they have done
     their duty. Germany has great commercial interests there. I
     will promote and protect trade, which shows a gratifying
     development, and make it my care to secure full equality
     with all nations. This is only possible when the sovereignty
     of the Sultan and the independence of the country are
     preserved. Both are for Germany beyond question, and for
     that I am ready at all times to answer. I think my visit to
     Tangier announces this clearly and emphatically, and will
     doubtless produce the conviction that whatever Germany
     undertakes in Morocco will be negotiated exclusively with
     the Sultan."

The result of these unmistakable declarations was that the Sultan rejected proposals made to
him by the French, and shortly afterwards, on the advice of Germany, came forward with suggestions
for a European conference. M. Delcassé, the French Foreign Minister, opposed the proposal,
and for a time war between France and Germany appeared inevitable; but France was not in a
military position to ignore Germany's threatening language, M. Delcassé had to resign, the
French Cabinet under M. Rouvier agreed to the conference, and it met at Algeciras in January,
1906. At the conference Great Britain, in consonance with the Entente, supported France; Austria
adhered loyally to her Triplice engagements and proved the "brilliant second" to Germany the
Emperor subsequently described her; Italy, on the other hand, gave her Teutonic ally only lukewarm
support.

In fairness, however, should be quoted here the explanation of Italy's attitude given by Chancellor
von Bülow when discussing the conference in Parliament next year. The impression is general,
both in and out of Germany, that Italy is only a half-hearted political ally. It is based on
the temperamental difference between the Latin and the Teutonic races, on the popular sympathy
between the French and Italian peoples, and to the supposedly reluctant support lent by Italy
to Germany during the critical time of the conference, the extra-tour, as Prince Bülow, using
a metaphor of the ballroom, termed it, she took with France on that occasion. Prince Bülow
now endeavoured to dissipate or correct the impression, at any rate, as regarded Algeciras.
"Italy," he said,

     "found herself in a difficult position there. Various
     agreements between Italy and France regarding Morocco had
     come into existence anterior to the conference, but Germany
     was satisfied that they were not inconsistent with Italy's
     Triplice engagements; in fact, Germany had, several years
     ago, officially told Italy she must use her own judgment and
     act on her own responsibility in dealing with her French
     neighbour in Africa and the Mediterranean."

When it was settled that a conference should be held, Italy, the Chancellor continued, "gave
Germany timely information as to the extent to which her support of Germany could go, and as
a matter of fact she supported Germany's views in the bank and police questions." So far the
German official explanation, but the impression of Italian lukewarmness as a member of the
Triplice has lost none of its universality thereby. How well or ill founded the impression
is, it will be for the future to disclose.

The summoning of the conference had been a triumph for German diplomacy, but its results were
disappointing to her; for while the proceedings showed that among all nations she could only
fully rely on the sympathy and support of Austria, they ended in an acknowledgment by Germany
of the special position of France in Morocco. The Act of Algeciras, which was dated April 7,
1906, stated that the signatory Powers recognized that "order, peace, and prosperity" could
only be made to reign in Morocco

     "by means of the introduction of reforms based upon the
     triple principle of the sovereignty and independence of his
     Majesty the Sultan, the integrity of his States, and
     economic liberty without any inequality."

Then followed six Declarations regarding the organization of the police, smuggling, the establishment
of a State bank, the collection of taxes, and the finding of new sources of revenue, customs,
and administrative services and public works. For the organization of the police, French and
Spanish officers and non-commissioned officers were to be placed at the disposal of the Sultan
by the French and Spanish Governments. Tenders for public works were to be adjudicated on impartially
without regard to the nationality of the bidder. The effect of the Act was to give international
recognition to the special position of France and Spain in Morocco, while safeguarding the
economic interests of other Powers.

The attitude taken up by Germany relative to the conference was set forth in a speech delivered
by Prince von Bülow in the Reichstag in December, 1905. It was based, he explained, on the
provisions of the Madrid Convention of 1880, in which all the Great Powers and the United States
had taken part. The Chancellor claimed that Germany sought no special privileges in Morocco,
but favoured a peaceful and independent development of the Shereefian Empire. He denied that
German rights could be abrogated by an Anglo-French Agreement, and pointing out that Morocco
in 1880 had granted all the signatories to the Madrid Convention most-favoured-nation treatment,
claimed that if France desired to make good her demand for special privileges, she ought to
have the consent of the special signatories to the Madrid pact. Germany had a right to be heard
in any new settlement of Moroccan conditions; she could not allow herself to be treated as
a quantité négligeable, nor be left out of account when a country lying on two of the world's
greatest commercial highways was being disposed of. She had a commercial treaty with Morocco,
conferring most-favoured-nation rights, and it did not accord with her honour to give way.

The Act of Algeciras, however, proved to have brought only temporary relief to European tension.
Disturbances continued in Morocco, French subjects were murdered at Marakesch in 1907, and
France occupied the province of Udja with troops until satisfaction should be given. Owing
to riots at Casablanca in 1908, in which French as well as Spanish and Italian labourers were
killed, she decided to occupy the place, and sent a strong military and naval force thither.
A French warship bombarded the town, and by June, 1908, the French army of occupation numbered
15,000 men. Meanwhile internal commotions and intrigues had led to the deposition of Abdul
Aziz and his replacement on the throne by his brother, Muley Hafid, with the support of Germany.
France and Spain refused to recognize the new ruler unless he gave guarantees that he would
respect the Act of Algeciras. Muley gave the required guarantees, and in March, 1909, France
"declared herself wholly attached to the integrity and independence of the Shereefian Empire
and decided to safeguard economic equality in Morocco." Germany on her side declared she was
pursuing in Morocco only economic interests and, "recognizing that the special political interests
of France in Morocco are closely bound up in that country with the consolidation of order and
of internal peace," was "resolved not to impede those interests."

The German idea of not impeding French special political interests in Morocco was disclosed
little more than two years later by the dispatch of the German gunboat Panther (of "Well done,
Panther!" fame) on July 3, 1911, to the "closed" port of Agadir on the south Moroccan coast.

It was as dramatic a coup as the Emperor's visit to Tangier and caused as much alarm. The fact
is that the march of French troops to Fez, which had taken place a few months before, convinced
the Emperor and his Government that France, relying on the support of her Entente friend England,
was bent on the Tunisification of Morocco. The Emperor, Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg, and
Foreign Secretary Kiderlen-Wæchter met at the Foreign Office on May 21st, and it was decided
to send a ship of war, as at once a hint and a demonstration, to Agadir or other Moroccan port.
Germany, of course, in accordance with diplomatic strategy, did not disclose the real springs
of her action, though they must have been patent to all the world. She notified the Powers
of the dispatch of her warship, explaining that the sending of the Panther, which "happened
to be in the neighbourhood," was owing to the representations of German firms, as a temporary
measure for the protection of German protégés in that region, and taken "in view of the possible
spread of disorders prevailing in other parts of Morocco."

In France, on the other hand, it was asserted that the step was not in conformity with the
spirit of the Franco-German Agreement of 1909, in which Germany resolved not to impede French
special interests, that there were no Germans at Agadir, and that only nine months previously
Germany had angrily protested at the calling of a French cruiser at the same port. The reference
was to the visit of the French cruiser Du Chaylu in November, 1910, when the captain paid a
visit to the local pasha. The German Foreign Secretary eventually said Germany had no objection
to France using her police rights even in a closed port, and the admission was taken as a fresh
renunciation on the part of Germany of any right to interference. Feeling ran high for a time
both in France and Germany, while the German action added to the sentiment of hostility to
Germany in England, and English political circles perceived in it a design on Germany's part
of acquiring a port on the Moroccan coast. The word "compensation," which afterwards was to
prove the solution of Franco-German differences was now first mentioned by Germany.

After England's determination to support France had been made plain by ministerial statements,
the entire Morocco episode was closed by the Franco-German Agreement signed on November 5,
1911, as "explanatory and supplementary" to the Franco-German Agreement of 1909. The effect
of the new Agreement was practically to give France as free a hand in Morocco as England has
in Egypt, with the reservation that "the proceedings of France in Morocco leave untouched the
economic equality of all nations." The Agreement further gives France "entire freedom of action"
in Morocco, including measures of police. The rights and working area of the Morocco State
bank were left as they stood under the Act of Algeciras. The sovereignty of the Sultan is assumed,
but not explicitly declared. The compensation to Germany for her agreement to "put no hindrances
in the way of French administration" and for the "protective rights" she recognizes as "belonging
to France in the Shereefian Empire" was the cession by France to Germany of a large portion
of her Congo territory in mid-Africa, with access to the Congo and its tributaries, the Sanga
and Ubangi.

While the ground-idea of Germany's policy of economic expansion, and the source of all her
trouble with England, is her insistence on her "place in the sun," the difficulty attending
it for other nations is to determine the place's nature and extent, so that every one shall
be comfortable and prosperous all round.

The alterations in conditions among civilized nations during the last half-century, more especially
in all that relates to international intercourse--political, financial, commercial, social--makes
it reasonable to suppose that changes must follow in the conduct of their foreign policies.
The fact also, recognized by no country more clearly than by Germany, that the profitable regions
of the earth are already appropriated makes an economic policy for her all the more advisable.
An economic policy, moreover, is, notwithstanding her apparent militarism, most in harmony
with the peaceful and industrious character of her people. Unfortunately, the stage in progress
where the political and commercial interests of all nations have become defined and adjusted
has not yet been reached, though the numerous agreements between the Great Powers of recent
years go far towards clearing the way for so desirable a consummation. Unfortunately, too,
it is in the very process of finding bases for such agreements that international jealousies
and misunderstandings arise; and hence in securing peace, governments and peoples are at all
times nowadays most in jeopardy of war. This consideration alone might very well be used to
justify nations in keeping their military and naval forces strong and ready. Perhaps some day
such forms of force will not be wanted, though admittedly the great majority of people still
refuse to believe that the changes which have occurred have altered the fundamental attitude
of countries to each other, and remain firmly convinced that to-day, as yesterday and the day
before, great nations are moved by an irresistible desire to add to their territories and in
every way aggrandize themselves, by diplomacy if possible, and if diplomacy fails, by force.

It is, of course, impossible to say with certainty what the real designs of the Emperor and
his Government in this regard were during the Morocco episode, or are now. Some believe that
their designs have always aimed, and still aim, at depriving Great Britain of her position
of superiority in respect of territory, maritime dominion, and trade. Others hold that they
seek and will have, coûte que coûte, new territory for Germany's increasing population, and
look with greedy eyes towards South America and even Holland. Others yet again represent them
as incessantly on the watch to seize a harbour here or there as a coaling station for warships
and a basis of attack. But an unbiased survey of the annals of the Emperor's reign hitherto
does not bear out any of these assertions. A policy of territorial expansion as such, mere
earth-hunger, cannot be proved against him. Prince Bismarck was no colonial enthusiast, though
he passes for being the founder of Germany's present colonial policy; and even to-day the colonial
party in Germany, though a very noisy, is not a very large or influential one. Samoa--East
Africa--Kiao-tschau--the Carolines--Heligoland--the Cameroons: how can the acquisition of comparatively
insignificant and unprofitable places like these be used for proving that the might of Germany
is or has been directed towards territorial conquest?

What, it may however be asked, of the Morocco adventure? Of the speech at Tangier? Of the sending
of the Panther to Agadir? Of the demand for compensation in Central Africa? Until the Morocco
question arose, all the quarrels amongst the Powers regarding territory were caused by the
territorial ambition of France, or Russia, or Italy--not of Germany; and it was not until France
showed openly, by sending her troops to Fez, and thus ignoring the Act of Algeciras, that Germany
put forward claims for territorial compensation in connection with Morocco. The visit of the
Emperor to Tangier in 1905, a year after the Anglo-French Agreement, was doubtless an unpleasant
surprise for both England and France. And not without good cause; for England and France are
naturally and historically Mediterranean Powers--the one as guardian of the route to her Eastern
possessions, the other as the owners of a large extent of Mediterranean coast; while England,
in addition, was justified in seeing with uneasiness the possibility of a German settlement
at Tangier or elsewhere on the Morocco seaboard. But the Tangier visit and all that followed
it was the consequence, not of an adventurous policy of territorial conquest, but of a legitimate,
and not wholly selfish, desire for economic expansion.

Taken, then, as a whole, the Emperor's foreign policy has been, as it is to-day, almost entirely
economic and commercial. The same might, no doubt, be said in a general way of all civilized
Occidental governments, but there never has yet been a country of which the foreign policy
was so completely directed by the economic and mercantile spirit as modern Germany. The foreign
policy of England has also been commercial, but it has been influenced at times by noble sentiment
and splendid imagination as well. The first question the German statesman, in whose vocabulary
of state-craft the word imagination does not occur, asks himself and other nations when any
event happens abroad to demand imperial attention is--how does it affect Germany's economic
and commercial interests, future as well as present? What is Germany going to get out of it?
The manner in which on various occasions during the reign the question has been propounded
has excited criticism bordering on indignation abroad, but it should be recognized that it
has invariably been answered in the long run by Germany in the spirit of compromise and conciliation.

However, all civilized nations nowadays see that war is the least satisfactory method of adjusting
national quarrels, and the tendency is happily growing among them to pursue a commercial, an
economic policy, a policy of peace. This is true Weltpolitik, true world-policy. Time was when
wars were the unavoidable result of conditions then prevailing; but conditions have greatly
altered, and war, as there is abundant evidence to show, is to-day, in almost every case, avoidable
by all civilized peoples. Formerly war deranged and disturbed at any rate for the time being,
the commerce and industries of the countries engaged in it; to-day, as Mr. Norman Angell demonstrates,
it deranges and disturbs commerce and industry all over the world. The derangement and disturbance
may, it is true, be only temporary; but there is, as always, the loss of life among the youth
of the countries engaged in war to be remembered. Granted that it is pleasant and honourable
to die for one's country. Let us hope the time is coming when it will be equally pleasant and
honourable to live for it.

We have done with Morocco, but to round off the record for 1905 mention should be made of an
incident in the Emperor's life which was a source of great pleasure to him after his return
from his journey thither. The marriage of his eldest son, the Crown Prince, took place in the
Chapel Royal of the Berlin palace on June 15, 1905, to the young Duchess Cecile of Mecklenburg-Schwerin,
whose character has been alluded to elsewhere and whom all Germans look forward with pleasure
to seeing one day their Empress. The marriage naturally was attended by rejoicings in Berlin
similar to those shown when the Emperor was married in 1881. Their chief popular feature, now
as then, was the formal entry into the capital, and its chief domestic feature a grand wedding
breakfast at the Emperor's palace. On the occasion of the latter, the Emperor, rising from
his seat and using the familiar Du and Dich (thou and thee), addressed his newly-made daughter-in-law
as follows:--

     "My dear daughter Cecilie,--Let me, on behalf of my wife and
     my whole House, heartily welcome you as a member of my House
     and my family circle. You have come to us like a Queen of
     Spring amid roses and garlands, and under endless
     acclamations of the people such as my Residence city has not
     known for long. A circle of noble guests has assembled to
     celebrate this high and joyful festival with us, but not
     only those present, but also those who are, alas, no more,
     are with us in spirit: your illustrious father and my
     parents.

     "A hundred thousand beaming faces have enthusiastically
     greeted you; they have, however, not merely shone with
     pleasure, but whoever can look deeper into the heart of man
     could have seen in their eyes the question--a question which
     can only be answered by your whole life and conduct, the
     question, How will it turn out?

     "You and your husband are about to found a home together.
     The people has its examples in the past to live up to. The
     examples which have preceded you, dear Cecilie, have been
     already eloquently mentioned--Queen Louise and other
     Princesses who have sat on the Prussian throne. They are the
     standards according to which the people will judge your
     life, while you, my dear son, will be judged according to
     the standard Providence set up in your illustrious
     great-grandfather.

     "You, my daughter, have been received by us with open arms
     and will be honoured and cherished. To both of you I wish
     from my heart God's richest blessings. Let your home be
     founded on God and our Saviour. As He is the most impressive
     personality which has left its illuminating traces on the
     earth up to the present time, which finds an echo in the
     hearts of mankind and impels them to imitate it, so may your
     career imitate His, and thus will you also fulfil the laws
     and follow the traditions of our House.

     "May your home be a happy one and an example for the younger
     generation, in accordance with the fine sentence which William
     the Great once wrote down as his confession of faith; 'My powers
     belong to the world and my country.' Accept my blessing for your
     lives. I drink to the health of the young married couple."

The record of this memorable year may be closed with mention of an institution which is not
only a special care of the Emperor's, but is also a landmark in the relation of Germany and
America which may prove to be the forerunner, if it has not already done so, of similar interchange
of ideas and information between nations which only require mutually to understand each other
in order to be the best of friends.

The system of an annual exchange of professors between America and Germany was suggested, it
is believed, to the Emperor in this year by Herr Althoff, the Prussian Minister of Education.
The Emperor took up the idea with enthusiasm, and after discussing it with Dr. Nicholas Murray
Butler, President of Columbia University, who was invited to Wilhelmshohe for the purpose,
had it finally elaborated by the Prussian Ministry of Education which now superintends its working.

The original idea of an exchange only between Harvard and Berlin University professors was,
thanks to the liberality of an American citizen, Mr. Speyer, extended almost simultaneously
by the establishment of what are known as "Roosevelt" professorships. The holders of these
positions, unlike the original "exchange" professors between Harvard and Berlin only, may be
chosen by the trustees of Columbia University from any American university and can exchange
duties for two terms, instead of one in the place of the exchange professors, with the professors
of any German University. Harvard professors have been succesively: Francis G. Peabody, Theodore
W. Richards, William H. Scofield, William M. Davis, George F. Moore, H. Munsterberg, Theobald
Smith, Charles S. Minog; and Roosevelt professors: J.W. Burgess, Arthur T. Hadley, Felix Adler,
Benj. Ide Wheeler, C. Alphonso Smith, Paul S. Reinsch, and William H. Sloane.

Writing to the German Ambassador in Washington, Baron Speck von Sternburg, in November, 1905,
the Emperor said:

     "Express my fullest sympathy with the movement regarding the
     exchange of professors. We are very well satisfied with
     Professor Peabody, the first exchange professor, and
     thankful to have him. He comes to me in my house, an
     honourable and welcome guest. My hearty thanks also to Mr.
     Speyer, for his fine gift for the erection of a
     professorship in Berlin. The exchange of the learned is the
     best means for both nations to know the inner nature of each
     other, and from thence spring mutual respect and love, which
     are securities for peace."

The idea of the exchange, as described by Professor John W. Burgess, of Columbia University,
the first Roosevelt professor to Germany, is

     "an exchange of educators which has for its purpose the
     bringing of the men of learning of one country into other
     countries and by a comparison of fundamental ideas to arrive
     at a world-philosophy and a world-morality upon which the
     world's peace and the world's civilization may finally and
     firmly rest."

The conception of a world-philosophy and a world-morality upon which the world's peace and
civilization may rest is not new, being now a little over 1900 years old, and, moreover, educators
and men of science in all countries are constantly exchanging ideas by personal visits, correspondence,
and publications; but in any case, the Emperor's exchange system has the advantage that it
brings the educators into touch with large numbers of the rising generation in America and
Germany and undoubtedly helps towards a better mutual understanding of the relations, and in
especial the economic relations, of the two countries.

It has worked well, and the Emperor has encouraged it by showing constant hospitality to the
American professors who have come to Berlin since the system was instituted. One or two episodes
have given rise to a diplomatic question as to whether or not exchange professors and their
wives have the privilege of being presented at Court. The question has practically been decided
in the negative. This, however, does not prevent the Emperor entertaining the professors at
his palace, or making the acquaintance of the professors' wives on other than Court ceremonious
occasions.

XIII.

BEFORE THE "NOVEMBER STORM"

1906-1907

In the domestic life of the Emperor during these years fall two or three events of more than
ordinary interest. From the dynastic point of view was of importance the birth of a son and
heir to the Crown Prince in the Marble Palace at Potsdam.

The Emperor was at sea, on his annual northern trip, when the birth occurred. As the ship approached
Bergen the town was seen to be gaily decorated with flags. As it happened, everybody on board
knew of the birth except the Emperor, but none of the officers round him ventured to congratulate
him, because they supposed he knew of it already and were waiting for him to refer to it. At
Bergen the German Minister, Stuebel, and German Consul, Mohr, came on board. The Minister,
being a diplomatist, said nothing, but the Consul, as Consuls will, spoke his mind and ventured
his congratulations. "What? I am a grandfather!" exclaimed the Emperor. "Why, that's splendid!
and I knew nothing about it!" The captain of the ship then asked should he fire the salute
of twenty-one guns usual on such occasions. "No," said the Emperor, "that won't do. Mohr is
a great talker. Let us first see the official despatches from Berlin." The party, including
the Emperor, went down into the cabin to await the despatches, which were being brought from
Bergen.

On their arrival a basketful of State papers was placed before the Emperor. The first one he
took out was a telegram from the Sultan of Turkey with congratulations (great merriment); the
second from an unknown lady in Berlin, with a name corresponding to the English "Brown," with
four lines of congratulatory poetry; and it was not until more than a hundred despatches had
been opened that they came to one from the Minister of the Interior and another from the Empress
announcing the birth. Popular reports at the time represented the Emperor as boiling over with
anger at his being kept or left in ignorance of the happy event. As a matter of fact, he was
in high good-humour, and himself mentioned a similar occurrence at Metz in 1870, when an important
movement of the French army was not reported because it was assumed that it was already known
to the Intelligence Department. As a public sign of his satisfaction he amnestied the half-dozen
of his subjects who happened to be in gaol as punishment for lèse majesté.

Another domestic event at this time was the celebration by the Emperor and Empress of their
silver wedding. Berlin, of course, was illuminated and beflagged. There was a great gathering
of royal relatives, a State banquet, and a special parade of troops. At the latter were remarkable
for their huge proportions two former grenadiers of the regiment of Guards the Emperor commanded
in his youth. They were now settled in America, but came over to Germany on the Emperor's particular
invitation and, of course, at his private expense.

The last item of domestic interest this year (1906) worth record was the marriage of Prince
Eitel Frederick, the Emperor's second son, with Princess Sophie Charlotte of Oldenburg. In
his speech to the bridal pair on their wedding-day the Emperor referred to the personal likeness
the young Prince bore to his great-grandfather, Emperor William, and expressed the hope that
the Prince might grow more like him in character from year to year.

Meantime the Emperor had to pass through a season of great annoyance owing to the scandal which
arose in connection with the so-called "Camarilla." The existence of a small and secret group
of viciously minded men among the Emperor's entourage was disclosed to the public by the well-known
pamphleteer, Maximilian Harden, a Jew by birth named Witowski, who as a younger man had been
on semi-confidential terms with Prince Bismarck and subsequently with Foreign Secretary von
Holstein. As a result of Harden's disclosures some highly placed friends of the Emperor were
compromised and had ultimately to disappear from public life as well as from the Court. It
was perfectly evident throughout that the Emperor had been totally ignorant of the private
character of the men forming the "Camarilla," and nothing was proved to show that the group
which formed it had ever unduly, or indeed in any fashion, influenced him.

An allusion made to the scandal by a deputy in the Reichstag brought the Chancellor, Prince
von Bülow, to his feet in defence of the monarch. "The view," he said,

     "that the monarch in Germany should not have his own
     opinions as to State and Government, and should only think
     what his Ministers desire him to think, is contrary to
     German State law and contrary to the will of the German
     people"

("Quite right," on the Right). "The German people," continued the Chancellor,

     "want no shadow-king, but an Emperor of flesh and blood. The
     conduct and statements of a strong personality like the
     Emperor's are not tantamount to a breach of the
     Constitution. Can you tell me a single case in which the
     Emperor has acted contrary to the Constitution?"

The Chancellor concluded:

     "As to a Camarilla--Camarilla is no German word. It is a
     hateful, foreign, poisonous plant which no one has ever
     tried to introduce into Germany without doing great injury
     to the people and to the Prince. Our Emperor is a man of far
     too upright a character and much too clear-headed to seek
     counsel in political things from any other quarter than his
     appointed advisers and his own sense of duty."

The Camarilla scandal was all the more painful as it was made a ground for insinuations disgraceful
to German officers as a body. Such insinuations were, as they would be to-day, entirely unfounded.

Another thing that annoyed the Emperor this year was the publication of ex-Chancellor Prince
Hohenlohe's Memoirs. The publication drew from him a telegram to a son of the ex-Chancellor
in which he expressed his "astonishment and indignation" at the publication of confidential
private conversations between him and Prince Hohenlohe regarding Prince Bismarck's dismissal.
"I must stigmatize," the Emperor telegraphed,

     "such conduct as in the last degree tactless, indiscreet,
     and entirely inopportune. It is a thing unheard-of that
     occurrences relating to a sovereign reigning at the time
     should be published without his permission."

Germans as a people are passionately fond of dancing, and though everybody knows that the people
of Vienna bear away the palm in this respect, claim to be the best waltzers in the world. The
Emperor, accordingly, won great popularity among the dancers of his realm this year by lending
a favourable ear to the sighing of the young ladies of the provincial town of Crefeld for a
regiment which would provide them with a supply of dancing partners. The Emperor took occasion
to visit the town, and brought with him a regiment of the Guards from Düsseldorf to form part
of the new garrison. He was received by the city authorities, and was at the same time, doubtless,
greeted from balcony and window by multitudes of fair-haired Crefeld maidens, who looked with
delightful anticipations on the gallant soldiers, who were to relieve the tedium of their evenings,
riding by. "To-day," the Emperor told the assembled city fathers, "I have kept my word to the
town of Crefeld, and when I make a promise I keep it too (stormy applause). I have brought
the town its garrison and the young ladies their dancers." The "stormy applause" was again
renewed--amid, one may imagine, the enthusiastic waving of pocket-handkerchiefs from the windows
and the balconies.

The salient feature of foreign politics just now was, naturally, the close on March 31st of
the Conference of Algeciras. Its results have been referred to in the chapter on Morocco, and
mention need only be made here of the famous telegram regarding it sent by the Emperor on April
12th of this year (1906) to the Foreign Minister of Austria, Count Goluchowski. "A capital
example of good faith among allies!" he telegraphed to the Count, meaning Austria's support
of Germany at Algeciras. "You showed yourself a brilliant second in the tourney, and can reckon
on the like service from me on a similar occasion."

Internal affairs, and particularly the parliamentary situation in Germany, had during the three
or four years before that of the "November Storm" demanded a good deal of the Emperor's attention.
The everlasting fight with the rebel angels of the Hohenzollern heaven, the Social Democracy,
had been going on all through the reign. Now the Emperor would fulminate against it, now his
Chancellor, Prince von Bülow, would attack it with brilliant ability and sarcasm in Parliament.
Still the Social Democratic movement grew, still the Vorwärts, the party organ, continued to
rail at industrial capitalists and the large landowners alike, still Herr Lucifer-Bebel bitterly
assailed every measure of the Government. The fact seems to be that the people were getting
restive under the imperial burdens the Emperor's world-policy entailed. The cost of living,
partly as a result of the new German tariff, with maximum and minimum duties, which now replaced
the Caprivi commercial treaties, was steadily rising. The Morocco episode had ended without
territorial gain, if with no loss of national honour or prestige. The Poles were antagonized
afresh by a stricter application of the Settlement Law for Germanizing Prussian Poland. Colonial
troubles in South-west Africa with Herero and other recalcitrant tribes were making heavy demands
on the Treasury.

The parliamentary situation was, as usual, at the mercy of the Centrum party, which, with its
hundred or more members, can always make a majority by combining with Liberal parties of the
Left (including the Socialists) or Conservative parties of the Right. In December, 1906, when
the Budget was laid before Parliament, it was found to contain a demand for about £1,500,000
for the troops in South-west Africa. The Centrum refused to grant more than £1,000,000, and
required, moreover, an undertaking that the number of troops in the colony should be reduced.
The Social Democrats, with a number of Progressives and other Left parties sufficient to form
a majority, joined the Centrum, and the Government demand was rejected by 177 to 168 votes.
On the result of the voting being declared, Chancellor von Bülow solemnly rose and drew a paper
from his pocket. It was an order from the Emperor dissolving Parliament.

The general elections were to be held in January following, and great efforts were made by
the Emperor and Chancellor to secure a Government majority against the combined Centrists and
Socialists. The country was appealed to to say whether Germany should lose her African colonies
or not; a patriotic response was made, and, though the Centrum, as always, came back to Parliament
in undiminished strength, the Socialists lost one-half of their eighty seats.

The Emperor, needless to say, was tremendously gratified. On the night the final results were
announced he gave a large dinner-party at the Palace, and read out to the Royal Family and
his guests the bulletins as they came in. Towards one o'clock in the morning the official totals
were known. The streets were knee-deep in snow, but the people were not deterred from making
a demonstration in their thousands before the palace. By and by lights were seen moving hurriedly
to and fro along the first floor containing the Emperor's apartments. A general illumination
of the suite of rooms followed, a window was thrown up, and the Emperor, bare-headed, was seen
in the opening. Instantly complete stillness fell on the vast square, and the Emperor, leaning
far out over the balcony, and evidently much excited, spoke in stentorian tones and with a
dramatic waving of his right arm as follows: "Gentlemen!"--the "gentlemen" included half the
hooligans of Berlin, but such are the accidents of political life--

     "Gentlemen! This fine ovation springs from the feeling that
     you are proud of having done your duty by your country. In
     the words of our great Chancellor (Bismarck), who said that
     if the Germans were once put in the saddle they would soon
     learn to ride, you can ride and you will ride, and ride
     down, any one who opposes us, especially when all classes
     and creeds stand fast together. Do not let this hour of
     triumph pass as a moment of patriotic enthusiasm, but keep
     to the road on which you have started."

The speech closed with a verse from Kleist's "Prince von Homburg," a favourite monarchist drama
of the Emperor's, conveying the idea that good Hohenzollern rule had knocked bad Social-Democratic
agitation into a cocked hat.

The result of the elections enabled the Chancellor to form a new "bloc" party in Parliament,
consisting of conservatives and Liberals, on whose united aid he could rely in promoting national
measures. As the Chancellor said, he did not expect Conservatives to turn into Liberals and
Liberals into Conservatives overnight nor did he expect the two parties to vote solid on matters
of secondary interest and importance; but he expected them to support the Government on questions
that concerned the welfare of the whole Empire.

Before 1907, the year we have now reached, Franco-German and Anglo-German relations had long
varied from cool to stormy. They had not for many years been at "set-fair," nor have they apparently
reached that halcyon stage as yet. During the Moroccan troubles it was generally believed that
on two or three occasions war was imminent either between France and Germany or between Germany
and England. That there was such a danger at the time of M. Delcassé's retirement from the
conduct of French foreign affairs just previous to the Algeciras Conference is a matter of
general conviction in all countries; but there is no publicly known evidence that danger of
war between England and Germany has been acute at any time of recent years. Nor at any time
of recent years has the bulk of the people in either country really desired or intended war.
There has been international exasperation, sometimes amounting to hostility, continuously;
but it was largely due to Chauvinism on both sides, and was in great measure counteracted by
the efforts of public-spirited bodies and men in both countries, by international visits of
amity and goodwill, and by the determination of both the English and German Governments not
to go to war without good and sufficient cause.

Among the most striking testimonies to this determination was the visit of the Emperor to England
in November, 1907.

The visit was made expressly an affair of State. The Emperor was accompanied by the Empress,
and the visit became a pageant and a demonstration--a pageant in respect of the national honours
paid to the imperial guests and a demonstration of national regard and respect for them as
friends of England. Nothing could have been simpler, or more tactful or more sincere than the
utterances, private as well as public, of the Emperor throughout his stay. His very first speech,
the few words he addressed to the Mayor of Windsor, displayed all three qualities. "It seems
to me," he said, "like a home-coming when I enter Windsor. I am always pleased to be here."
At the Guildhall subsequently, referring to the two nations, he used, and not for the first
time, the phrase "Blood is thicker than water."

At the Guildhall, on this occasion, the Emperor reminded his hearers that he was a freeman
of the City of London, having been the recipient of that honour from the hands of Lord Mayor
Sir Joseph Savory on his accession visit to London in 1891. He then referred to the visit of
the Lord Mayor, Sir William Treloar, to Berlin the year previous, and promised a similar hearty
welcome to any deputation from the City of London to his capital. "In this place sixteen years
ago," continued the Emperor,

     "I said that all my efforts would be directed to the
     preservation of peace. History will do me the justice of
     recognizing that I have unfalteringly pursued this aim. The
     main support, however, and the foundation of the world's
     peace is the maintenance of good relations between our two
     countries. I will, in future also, do all I can to
     strengthen them, and the wishes of my people are at one with
     my own in this."

The procession that followed upon the visit to the Guildhall made a special impression on the
Emperor. "I was so close to the people," he said afterwards,

     "who were assembled in hundreds of thousands, that I could
     look straight into their eyes, and from the expression on
     their faces I could see that their reception of the Empress
     and myself was no artificial welcome but an out-and-out
     sincere one. That stirred us deeply and gave us great
     satisfaction. The Empress and I will take back with us
     recollections of London and England we shall never forget."

While at Windsor the Emperor received a deputation of sixteen members of Oxford University,
headed by Lord Curzon, who came to present him with the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws voted
him by the University while he was still on his way to England. It was a picturesque scene:
the members of the University in their academic robes were surrounded by a brilliant company
representing the intellect of the country; and the Emperor, with the doctor's hood over his
field-marshal's uniform, was the cynosure of all eyes.

The Emperor's reply to Lord Curzon's address, highly complimentary to the University though
it was, was perhaps chiefly remarkable for the expression of his expectations from the Rhodes'
Scholarship foundation. "The gift of your great fellow-countryman, Cecil Rhodes," he said,

     "affords an opportunity to students, not only from the
     British colonies, but also from Germany and the United
     States, to obtain the benefits of an Oxford education. The
     opportunity afforded to young Germans during their period of
     study to mix with young Englishmen is one of the most
     satisfactory results of Rhodes's far-seeing mind. Under the
     auspices of the Oxford alma mater, the young students will
     have an opportunity of studying the character and qualities
     of the respective nations, of fostering by this means the
     spirit of good comradeship, and creating an atmosphere of
     mutual respect and friendship between the two countries."

The Emperor had always admired the Colossus of South Africa, discerning in him no doubt many
of those attributes which he felt existed in himself or which he would like to think existed;
and the admiration stood the test of personal acquaintance when Cecil Rhodes visited Berlin
in March, 1899, in connexion with his scheme for the Cape to Cairo railway. It does not sound
very complimentary to his own subjects, the "salt of the earth," but it is on record that the
Emperor then said to Rhodes that he wished "he had more men like him." At the close of the
visit the Empress returned to Germany, while the Emperor took a much needed rest-cure for three
weeks at Highcliffe Castle, a country mansion in Hampshire he rented for the purpose from its
owner, Colonel Stuart-Wortley.

In the course of this work, it may have been noticed, no particular attention has been devoted
to the Emperor in his military capacity. The reason is, because it is taken for granted that
all the world knows the Emperor in his character as War Lord, that he is practically never
out of uniform, and that his care for the army is only second--if it is second--to that for
the stability and power of his monarchy. The two things in fact are closely identified, and,
from the Emperor's standpoint, on both together depend the security, and to a large extent
the prosperity, of the Empire. He knows or believes that Germany is surrounded by hordes of
potential enemies, as a lighthouse is often surrounded by an ocean that, while treacherously
calm, may at any time rage about the edifice; that round the lighthouse are gathered his folk,
who look to it for safety; and that the monarchy is the lighthouse itself, a rocher de bronze,
towering above all.

In this connexion it may be noted that the army in Germany is not a mercenary body like the
English army, but is simply and solely a certain portion of the people, naturally the younger
men, passing for two or three years, according as they serve in the infantry or cavalry, through
the ranks. The system of recruiting, as everybody knows, is called conscription; it ought rather
to be described as a system of national education, whereby the rude and raw youth of the country
is converted into an admirable class of well-disciplined, self-respecting and healthy, as well
as patriotic, citizens. The Emperor believes, contrary to the opinion of many English army
officers, that a man to be a good soldier must also be a good Christian, and thus we find him
enforcing, or trying to enforce, among his officers the moral qualities which Christianity
is meant to foster.

Among these qualities is simplicity of life, and as a result of simplicity of life, contentment
with simple and not too costly pleasures. We saw the Emperor as a young colonel forbidding
his officers to join a Berlin club where gambling was prevalent. This year, after a luxurious
lunch at one of the regimental messes, he issues an order, or rather an edict, expressing his
wish that officers in their messes should content themselves with simpler food and wines, and
in particular that when he himself is a guest, the meal should consist only of soup, fish,
vegetables, a roast and cheese. Ordinary red or white table-wine, a glass of "bowl" ("cup"),
or German champagne should be handed round. Liqueurs, or other forms of what the French know
as "chasse-café," after dinner were best avoided. The edict of course caused amusement as well
as a certain amount of discontent with what was felt to be a kind of objectionable paternal
interference, and it is doubtful whether it has had much lasting effect. Even now, the German
officer laughingly tells one that when the Emperor dines at an officers' mess either French
champagne (which is infinitely superior to German) is poured into German champagne bottles,
or else the French label is carefully shrouded in a napkin that swathes the bottle up to the
neck. Apropos of German champagne, a story is current that Bismarck, one day dining at the
palace, refused the German champagne being handed round. The Emperor noticed the refusal and
said pointedly to Bismarck: "I always drink German champagne, because I think it right to encourage
our national industries. Every patriot should do so." "Your Majesty," replied the grim old
Chancellor, "my patriotism does not extend to my stomach."

In the domain of æsthetics this year the Emperor had some pleasant and some painful experiences.
Joachim, the great violinist, and a great favourite of his, died in August, and his death was
followed next month, September, by that of the composer Grieg, the "Chopin of the North," as
the Emperor called him, whose friendship the Emperor had acquired on one of his Norwegian trips.
Quite at the end of the year his early tutor, Dr. Hinzpeter, for whom he always had a semi-filial
regard, passed away.

On the other hand, among the Emperor's pleasant experiences may be reckoned the visit of Mr.
Beerbohm Tree and his English company to the German capital. Their repertory of Shakespearean
drama greatly delighted the Emperor, who expressed his pleasure to Mr. Tree and his fellow-players
personally, and did not dismiss them without substantial tokens of his appreciation.

Earlier in the year the French actress, Suzanne Deprès, visited Berlin and appealed strongly
to the Emperor's taste for the "classical" in music and drama. Inviting the actress to the
royal box, he said to her:

     "You have shown us such a natural, living Phædra that we
     were all strongly moved. How fine a part it is! As a
     youngster I used to learn verses from 'Phædra' by heart. I
     am told that in France devotion to classical tradition is
     growing weaker, and that Molière and Racine are more and
     more seldom played. What a pity! Our people, on the
     contrary, remain faithful to their great poets and enjoy
     their works. After school comes college, and after
     college--the theatre. It should elevate and expand the soul.
     The people do not need any representation of reality--they
     are well acquainted with that in their daily lives. One must
     put something greater and nobler before them, something
     superior to 'La Dame aux Camélias.'"

A month later, however, he made one of his extremely rare visits to an ordinary Berlin theatre
to see--"The Hound of the Baskervilles"!

Meanwhile in domestic politics Chancellor von Bülow's famous "bloc" continued to work satisfactorily,
notwithstanding difficulties arising from the conflicting interests of industry and agriculture,
Free Trade and Protection and differences of creed and race. At the end of this year it was
near falling asunder in connection with the question of judicial reform, but Prince von Bülow
kept it together for a while by an impassioned appeal to the patriotism of both parties. In
the course of the speech he told the House how, when he was standing at Bismarck's death-bed,
he noticed on the wall the portrait of a man, Ludwig Uhland, who had said "no head could rule
over Germany that was not well anointed with democratic oil," and drew the conclusion from
the contrast between the dying man of action and the poet that only the union of old Prussian
conservative energy and discipline with German broad-hearted, liberal spirit could secure a
happy future for the nation. The "bloc," as we shall see, broke up in 1909 and Prince von Bülow
resigned. The Chancellor afterwards attributed his fall entirely to the Conservatives, but
it is possible, even probable, that it was in at least some measure due to the events of the
annus mirabilis, 1908, which now opened.

XIV

THE NOVEMBER STORM

1908

The "November Storm" was a collision between the Emperor and his folk, a result of his so-called
"personal regiment."

In a general way the latter phrase is intended to describe and characterize the method of rule
adopted by the Emperor from the very beginning of his reign, especially as exhibited in his
semi-official utterances, public and private, in his correspondence, private conversation,
and public and private conduct generally. According to the popular interpretation of the Imperial
Constitution--the nearest thing to a Magna Charta in Germany--the Emperor should observe, in
his words and acts, a reserve which would prevent all chance of creating dissension among the
federated States and in particular would secure the avoidance of anything which might disturb
Germany's relations to foreign countries or interfere with the course of Germany's foreign
policy as carried on through the regular official channel, the Foreign Office. The ground for
this popular interpretation is a constitutional device which to an Englishman, if it be not
offensive to say so, can only recall the well-known definition of a metaphysician as "a blind
man, in a dark room, looking for a black cat, which is not there."

The device is known as the Chancellor's "responsibility," which was regarded, and is still
regarded in Germany, as at once "covering" the Emperor and offering to his folk a safeguard
against unwisdom or caprice on his part. The nature of this responsibility which is evidenced
by the Chancellor signing the Emperor's edicts and other official statements, is so frequently
discussed by German politicians, the position of the Chancellor--the Grand Vizier of Germany
he has been picturesquely called--is so influential, and the intercourse between the Emperor
and the Chancellor is so close, exclusive, and confidential, that an examination of the meaning
of the term "responsibility" in this connexion is desirable.

Whenever the Emperor does anything important or surprising, especially in foreign policy, the
first question asked by his subjects is, has he taken the step with the knowledge, and therefore
with the joint responsibility, of the Chancellor? If the answer is in the negative, it is the
"personal regiment" again, and people are angry: if the latter, they may disapprove of the
step and grumble at it, but it is covered by the Chancellor's signature and they can raise
no constitutional objection. Hence the demand usually made on such occasions for an Act of
Parliament once for all defining fully and clearly the Chancellor's responsibilities. According
to Prince von Bülow, and it is doubtless the Emperor's own view, the responsibility mentioned
in the Constitution is a "moral responsibility," and only refers to such acts and orders of
the Emperor as immediately arise out of the governing rights vested in him, not to personal
expressions of opinion, even though these may be made on formal occasions; and the Prince goes
on to say that if a Chancellor cannot prevent what he honestly thinks would permanently and
in an important respect be injurious to the Empire, he is bound to resign.

The Chancellor, then, takes responsibility of some kind. But responsibility to whom? To the
Emperor? To the Parliament? To the people? The answer is, solely to the Emperor, for it is
the Emperor who appoints and dismisses him as well as every other Minister, imperial or Prussian,
and the Emperor is only responsible to his conscience. In parliamentarily ruled countries like
England Ministers are responsible to Parliament, which expresses its disapproval by the vote
of a hostile majority, or in certain circumstances by a vote of censure or even impeachment.
In Germany, where the parliamentary system of government does not exist, and where there is
no upsetting Ministries by a hostile majority, and no parliamentary vote of censure or impeachment,
no Minister, including the Chancellor, is responsible, in the English sense of the word, to
Parliament; accordingly, a German Chancellor may continue in office in spite of Parliament,
provided of course the Emperor supports him. At the same time the Chancellor to-day is to some
indefinable extent responsible to Parliament, and therefore to the people, in so far as they
are represented by it, for he must keep on tolerable terms with Parliament as well as with
the Emperor, or he will have to give up office. How he is to keep on terms with a Parliament
consisting of half a dozen powerful parties and as many more smaller fractions and factions
is probably the part of his duties that gives him most trouble and at times, doubtless, very
disagreeably interferes with the placidity of his slumbers.

There is no struggle for government in Germany between the Crown and the people: Germans have
no ancient Magna Charta, no Habeas Corpus, no Declaration of Rights to look back to on the
long road to liberty. In the protracted struggle for government between the English people
and their rulers, the people's victory took the form of parliamentary control while retaining
the monarch as their highest and most honoured representative. Socially he is their master,
politically their servant, the "first servant of the State." In Germany there has never, save
for a few months in 1848, been any struggle of a similar political extent or kind. German monarchs
including the Emperor, have applied the expression "first servant of the State" to themselves,
but they did not apply it in the English sense. They applied it more accurately. In Germany
the State means the system, the mechanism of government, inclusive of the monarch's office:
in England the word "State" is more nearly equivalent to the word "people." To serve the system,
the government machinery, is the first duty of the monarch, and government is not a changing
reflection of the people's will, but a permanent apparatus for maintaining the power of the
Crown, harmonizing and reconciling the sentiments and interests of all parts of the Empire,
and for conducting foreign policy.

It may be objected that legislation is made by the Reichstag, that the Reichstag has the power
of the purse, and that it is elected by universal suffrage; but in Germany the Government is
above and independent of the Reichstag; legislation is not made by the Reichstag alone, since
it requires the agreement of the Federal Council and of the Emperor, and--what is of great
practical importance--Government issues directions as to how legislation shall be carried into
effect. The law of 1872 passed against the Jesuits forbade the "activity" of the Order, but
the interpretation of the word "activity," and with it the effects of the law, were left to
the Government.

Kings of Prussia and German Emperors have never shown much affection for their Parliaments:
Parliaments are apt to act as a check upon monarchy, and in Prussia in particular to interfere
with the carrying out of the divinely imposed mission. This is not said sarcastically; and
the Emperor, like some of his ancestors, has more than once expressed the same thought. Parliaments
in Germany only date from after the French Revolution. After that event there came into existence
in Germany the Frankfurt Parliament (1848), the Erfurt Parliament (1850), and the Parliament
of the German Customs Union (1867). These, however, were not popularly elected Parliaments
like those of the present day, but gatherings of class delegates from the various Kingdoms
and States composing the Germany and Austria of the time. Since the Middle Ages there had always
been quasi-popular assemblies in Prussia, but they too were not elected, and only represented
classes, not constituencies. The present Parliaments in Prussia and the Empire are Constitutional
Parliaments in the English sense, elected by universal suffrage, the one indirectly, the other
directly.

The present Prussian Diet dates from the "First Unified Diet," summoned by Frederick William
IV in 1847, which was transformed next year under pressure of the revolutionists into a "national
assembly." This was treated a year after by General Wrangel almost exactly as Cromwell treated
the Rump. The General entered Berlin with the troops which a few weeks before had fought against
the revolutionists of the "March days." He passed along the Linden to the royal theatre, where
the "national assembly" was in session, and was met at the door by the leader of the citizens'
guard with the proud words, "The guard is resolved to protect the honour of the National Assembly
and the freedom of the people, and will only yield to force."

Wrangel took out his watch--one can imagine the old silver "turnip"--and with his thumb on
the dial replied:

     "Tell your city guard that the force is here. I will be
     responsible for the maintenance of order. The National
     Assembly has fifteen minutes in which to leave the building
     and the city guard in which to withdraw."

In a quarter of an hour the building was empty, and next day the city guard was dissolved.
A month later the King, Frederick William IV, granted his octroyierte Constitution--that is,
a concession of his own royal personal will--which established the Diet as it is to-day.

Emperor William I, as King of Prussia, had a good deal of trouble with his Parliament, and
in 1852 wanted to abdicate rather than rule in obedience to a parliamentary majority--it was
the "conflict time" about funds for army reorganization. Bismarck dissuaded him from doing
so by promising to become Minister and carry on the government, if need were, without a parliament
and without a budget. He actually did so for some years, but there was no change in the Constitution
as a result.

Nor has there been any constitutional change in the relations of Crown to Parliament during
the present reign. As a young man, the Emperor had of course nothing to do with Parliament,
Prussian or Imperial, and since his accession, though there is always latent antagonism and
has been even friction at times, he has, generally speaking, lived on "correct," if not friendly
terms with it. There is little, if any, of the devoted affection one finds for the monarch
in the English Parliament.

And not unnaturally. Early in his reign, in 1891, he made a reference to Parliament little
calculated to evoke affection. "The soldier and the army," he said to his generals at a banquet
in the palace, "not parliamentary majorities and decisions, have welded together the German
Empire. My confidence is in the army--as my grandfather said at Coblenz: 'These are the gentlemen
on whom I can rely.'" Again, a year or two afterwards he dissolved the Reichstag for refusing
to accept a military bill and did not conceal his anger with the recalcitrant majority. In
1895 he telegraphed to Bismarck his indignation with the Reichstag for refusing to vote its
congratulations on the old statesman's eightieth birthday. In 1897, speaking of the kingship
"von Gottes Gnaden" he took occasion to quote his grandfather's declaration that "it was a
kingship with onerous duties from which no man, no Minister, no Parliament, no people" could
release the Prince. In 1903 his Chancellor, Prince Bülow, had to defend in Parliament his action
in the case of the Swinemunde despatch already mentioned. Attention was called to the telegram
in the Reichstag and the Chancellor defended the Emperor. He denied that the telegram was an
act of State--it was a personal matter between two sovereigns, the statement of a friend to
a friend. "The idea," said the Chancellor, who contended that the Emperor had a right to express
his opinions like any citizen,

     "that the monarch's expression of opinion is to be limited
     by a stipulation that every such expression must be endorsed
     with the signature of the Chancellor is wholly foreign to
     the Constitution."

Next day the Chancellor had again occasion to defend his imperial master against a charge of
being "anti-social," brought by the Socialist von Vollmar, who coupled the charge with insinuations
of absolutism and Cæsarism. Prince Bülow said:

     "Absolutism is not a German word, and is not a German
     institution. It is an Asiatic plant, and one cannot talk of
     absolutism in Germany so long as our circumstances develop
     in an organic and legal manner, respecting the rights of the
     Crown, which are just as sacred as the rights of the
     burgher; respecting also law and order, which are not
     disregarded 'from above,' and will not be disregarded. If
     ever our circumstances take on an absolute, a Cæsarian,
     form, it will be as the consequence of revolution, of
     convulsion. For on revolution follows Cæsarism as W follows
     U--that is the rule in the A B C of the world's history."

There is no harm in reminding Prince Bülow that the letter V--which may be a very important
link in the chain of events--comes between U and W. It is clear also that the Chancellor must
have forgotten his English history for the moment, for though Cromwell's rule may be called
Cæsarism of a kind, the reign of William III, of "glorious, pious, and immortal memory," which
followed the revolution of 1688, could not fairly be so named.

Three years later, in 1906, Prince Bülow found it necessary to defend the Emperor on the score
of the "personal regiment." "The view," Prince Bülow said,

     "that the monarch should have no individual thoughts of his own
     about State and government, but should only think with the heads
     of his Ministers and only say what they tell him to say, is
     fundamentally wrong--is inconsistent with State rights and with
     the wish of the German people";

and he concluded by challenging the House to mention a single case in which the Emperor had
acted unconstitutionally. None of these bickerings between Crown and Parliament went to the
root of the constitutional relations between them, but they betrayed the existence of popular
dissatisfaction with the Emperor, which in a couple of years was to culminate in an outbreak
of national anger.

An occurrence calls for mention here, not only as a kind of harbinger of the "storm," but as
one of the chief incidents which in the course of recent years have troubled Anglo-German relations.
The incident referred to is that of the so-called "Tweedmouth Letter," which was an autograph
letter from the Emperor to Lord Tweedmouth, First Lord of the British Admiralty at the time,
dated February 17, 1908, and containing among other matters a lengthy disquisition on naval
construction, with reference to the excited state of feeling in England caused by Germany's
warship-building policy. The letter has never been published, but it is supposed to have been
prompted by a statement made publicly by Lord Esher, Warden of Windsor Castle, in the London
Observer, to the effect that nothing would more please the German Emperor than the retirement
of Sir John Fisher, the originator of the Dreadnought policy, who was at the time First Lord
of the Admiralty; and to have contained the remark that "Lord Esher had better attend to the
drains at Windsor and leave alone matters which he did not understand." The Emperor was apparently
unaware that Lord Esher was one of the foremost military authorities in England.

The sending of the letter became known through the appearance of a communication in the London
Times of March 6th, with the caption "Under which King?"--an allusion to Shakespeare's "Under
which king, Bezonian, speak or die"--and signed "Your Military Correspondent." The writer announced
that it had come to his knowledge that the German Emperor had recently addressed a letter to
Lord Tweedmouth on the subject of British and German naval policy, and that it was supposed
that the letter amounted to an attempt to influence, in German interests, the Minister's responsibility
for the British Naval Estimates. The correspondent concluded by demanding that the letter should
be laid before Parliament without delay. The Times, in a leading article, prognosticated the
"painful surprise and just indignation" which must be felt by the people of Great Britain on
learning of such "secret appeals to the head of a department on which the nation's safety depends,"
and argued that there could be no question of privacy in a matter of the kind. The article
concluded with the assertion that the letter was obviously an attempt to "make it more easy
for German preparations to overtake our own." The incident was immediately discussed in all
countries, publicly and privately.

Everywhere opinion was divided as to the defensibility of the Emperor's action; in France the
division was reported by the Times correspondent to be "bewildering." All the evidence available
to prove the Emperor's impulsiveness was recalled--the Kruger telegram, the telegram to Count
Goluchowski, the Austrian Minister of Foreign Affairs, after the Morocco Conference, characterizing
him as a "brilliant second (to Germany) in the bout at Algeciras," the premature telegram conferring
the Order of Merit on General Stoessel after the fall of Port Arthur, and other evidence, relevant
and irrelevant. Reuter's agent in Berlin telegraphed on official authority that the Emperor
"had written as a naval expert."

On the whole, continental opinion may be said to have leaned in favour of the Emperor. Mr.
Asquith, the English Prime Minister, at once made the statement that the letter was a "purely
private communication, couched in an entirely friendly spirit," that it had not been laid before
the Cabinet, and that the latter had come to a decision about the Estimates before the letter
arrived.

All eyes and ears were now turned to Lord Tweedmouth, and on March 10th he briefly referred
to the matter in the House of Lords. He received the letter, he said, in the ordinary postal
way; it was "very friendly in tone and quite informal"; he showed it to Sir Edward Grey, who
agreed with him that it should be treated as a private letter, not as an official one; and
he replied to it on February 20th, "also in an informal and friendly manner." A discussion,
in which Lord Lansdowne and Lord Rosebery took part, followed, the former--to give the tone,
not the words of his speech--handing in a verdict of "Not guilty, but don't do it again," against
the Emperor, and laying down the principle that "such a communication as that in question must
not be allowed to create a diplomatic situation different from that which has been established
through official channels and documents"; and Lord Rosebery, while he recognized the importance
of the incident, seeking to minimize its effects by an attitude of banter. The treatment of
the incident by the House of Commons as a whole gave considerable satisfaction in Germany,
where all efforts were directed to showing malevolent hostility to Germany on the part of the
Times.

Prince von Bülow dealt with the letter in a speech on the second reading of the Budget on March
24, 1908. After referring to the Union Internationale Interparlementaire, which was to meet
in a few months in Berlin, and to the "very unsatisfactory situation in Morocco," he said:--

     "From various remarks which have been dropped in the course
     of the debate I gather that this honourable House desires me
     to make a statement as to the letter which his Majesty the
     Kaiser last month wrote to Lord Tweedmouth. On grounds of
     discretion, to the observance of which both the sender and
     receiver of a private letter are equally entitled, I am not
     in a position to lay the text of the letter before you, and
     I add that I regret exceedingly that I cannot do so. The
     letter could be signed by any one of us, by any sincere
     friend of good relations between Germany and England (hear,
     hear). The letter, gentlemen, was in form and substance a
     private one, and at the same time its contents were of a
     political nature. The one fact does not exclude the other;
     and the letter of a sovereign, an imperial letter, does not,
     from the fact that it deals with political questions, become
     an act of State ('Very true,' on the Right).

     "This is not--and deputy Count Kanitz yesterday gave
     appropriate instances in support--the first political letter
     a sovereign has written, and our Kaiser is not the first
     sovereign who has addressed to foreign statesmen letters of
     a political character which are not subject to control. The
     matter here concerns a right of action which all sovereigns
     claim and which, in the case of our Kaiser also, no one has
     a right to limit. How his Majesty proposes to make use of
     this right we can confidently leave to the imperial sense of
     duty. It is a gross, in no way justifiable
     misrepresentation, to assert that his Majesty's letter to
     Lord Tweedmouth amounts to an attempt to influence the
     Minister responsible for the naval budget in the interests
     of Germany, or that it denotes a secret interference in the
     internal affairs of the British Empire. Our Kaiser is the
     last person to believe that the patriotism of an English
     Minister would suffer him to accept advice from a foreign
     country as to the drawing up of the English naval budget
     ('Quite right,' hear, hear). What is true of English
     statesmen is true also of the leading statesmen of every
     country which lays claim to respect for its independence
     ('Very true'). In questions of defence of one's own country
     every people rejects foreign interference and is guided only
     by considerations bearing on its own security and its own
     needs ('Quite right'). Of this right to self-judgment and
     self-defence Germany also makes use when she builds a fleet
     to secure the necessary protection for her coasts and her
     commerce ('Bravo!'). This defensive, this purely defensive
     character of our naval programme cannot, in view of the
     incessant attempts to attribute to us aggressive views with
     regard to England, be too often or too sharply brought
     forward ('Bravo!'). We desire to live in peace and quietness
     with England, and therefore it is embittering to find a
     portion of the English Press ever speaking of the 'German
     danger,' although the English fleet is many times stronger
     than our own, although other lands have stronger fleets than
     us and are working no less zealously at their development.
     Nevertheless it is Germany, ever Germany, and only Germany,
     against which public opinion on the other side of the
     Channel is excited by an utterly valueless polemic ('Quite
     right').

     "It would be, gentlemen,"

the Chancellor continued,

     "in the interests of appeasement between both countries, it
     would be in the interest of the general peace of the world,
     that this polemic should cease. As little as we challenge
     England's right to set up the naval standard her responsible
     statesmen consider necessary for the maintenance of British
     power in the world without our seeing therein a threat
     against ourselves, so little can she take it ill of us if we
     do not wish our naval construction to be wrongly represented
     as a challenge against England (hear, hear, on the Right and
     Left). Gentlemen, these are the thoughts, as I judge from
     your assent, which we all entertain, which find expression
     in the statements of all speakers, and which are in harmony
     with all our views. Accept my additional statement that in
     the letter of his Majesty to Lord Tweedmouth one gentleman,
     one seaman, talks frankly to another, that our Kaiser highly
     appreciates the honour of being an admiral of the British
     navy, and that he is a great admirer of the political
     education of the British people and of their fleet, and you
     will have a just view of the tendency, tone, and contents of
     the imperial letter to Lord Tweedmouth. His Majesty
     consequently finds himself in this letter not only in full
     agreement with the Chancellor--I may mention this specially
     for the benefit of Herr Bebel--but, as I am convinced, in
     agreement with the entire nation. It would be deeply
     regrettable if the honourable opinions by which our Kaiser
     was moved in writing this letter should be misconstrued in
     England. With satisfaction I note that the attempts at such
     misconstruction have been almost unanimously rejected in
     England ('Bravo!' on the Right and Left). Above all,
     gentlemen, I believe that the admirable way in which the
     English Parliament has exemplarily treated the question will
     have the best effect in preventing a disturbance of the
     friendly relations between Germany and England and in
     removing all hostile intention from the discussions over the
     matter (agreement, Right and Left).

     "Gentlemen, one more observation of a general nature.
     Deputies von Hertling and Bassermann have recommended us, in
     view of the suspicions spread about us abroad, a calm and
     watchful attitude of reserve, and for the treatment of the
     country's foreign affairs consistency, union, and firmness.
     I believe that the foreign policy we must follow cannot be
     characterized better or more rightly (applause)."

A German saying has it that one is wiser coming from, than going to, the Rathaus, the place
of counsel. It is easy to see now that it would have been better had the Emperor not written
the letter, better had the Times not brought it to public notice, better, also, had the Emperor
or Lord Tweedmouth or Sir Edward Grey--for one of them must have spoken of it to a third person--not
let its existence become known to anyone save themselves, at least not until the international
situation which prompted it had ceased. As regards the Emperor in particular, judgment must
be based on the answer to the question, Was the letter a private letter or a public document?
The Times regarded it as the latter, and many politicians took that view, but probably nine
people out of ten now regard it as the former. For such, the reflection that it was part of
a private correspondence between two friendly statesmen, both well known to be sincere in their
views that a country's navy--that all military preparations--are based on motives of national
defence, not of high-handed aggression, must absolve the Emperor from any suspicion of political
immorality. It was unfortunate that the letter was written, unfortunate that it was made known
publicly, but, as it is an ill wind that blows nobody good, the episode may profit monarchs
as well as meaner folk as an object lesson in the advantages of discretion.

Discussion of the Tweedmouth letter had hardly ceased when the whole question of the "personal
regiment" was again, and as it now, five years after, appears, finally thrashed out between
the Emperor and his folk. Before, however, considering the Daily Telegraph interview and the
Emperor's part in it, something should be said as to the state of international ill-feeling
which caused him to sanction its publication.

The ill-feeling was no sudden wave of hostility or pique, but a sentiment which had for years
existed in the minds of both nations--a sentiment of mutual suspicion. The Englishman thought
Germany was prepared to dispute with him the maritime supremacy of Great Britain, the German
that England intended to attack Germany before Germany could carry her great design into execution.
The proximate cause of the irritation--for it has not yet got beyond that--was the decision,
as announced in her Navy Law of 1898, to build a fleet of battleships which Germany, but especially
the Emperor, considered necessary to complete the defences, and appropriate for affirming the
dignity, of the Empire.

This was the origo, but not the fons. The source was the Boer War and the Kruger telegram,
though the philosophic historian might with some reason refer it in a large measure also to
the surprise and uneasiness with which the leading colonial and commercial, as well as maritime,
nation of the world saw the material progress, the waxing military power, and the longing for
expansion of the not yet forty-year-old German Empire. Forty years ago the word "Germany" had
no territorial, but only a descriptive and poetical, significance; certainly it had no political
significance; for the North German Union, out of which the modern German Empire grew, meant
for Englishmen, and indeed for politicians everywhere, only Prussia. Prussia was less liked
by the world then than she is now, when she is not liked too well; and accordingly there was
already in existence the disposition in England to criticize sharply the conduct of Prussia
and to apply the same criticism to the Empire Prussia founded. In this condition of international
feeling England's long quarrel with the Transvaal Republic came nearer to the breaking-point;
at the same time there was an idea prevalent in England that Germany was coquetting with the
Boers--if not looking to a seizure of Transvaal territory, at least hoping for Boer favour
and Boer commercial privileges. The Jameson Raid was made and failed; the Emperor and his advisers
sent the fateful telegram to President Kruger; and the peace of the world has been in jeopardy
ever since!

The "storm" arose from the publication, in the London Daily Telegraph of October 28, 1908,
of an interview coming, as the editor said in introducing it, "from a source of such unimpeachable
authority that we can without hesitation commend the obvious message which it conveys to the
attention of the public." As to the origin and composition of the interview a good deal of
mystery still exists. All that has become known is that some one, whose identity has hitherto
successfully been concealed, with the object of demonstrating the sentiments of warm friendship
with which the Emperor regarded England, put together, in England or in Germany, a number of
statements made by the Emperor and sanctioned by him for publication. Whether the Emperor read
the interview previous to publication or not, no official statement has been made; it is, however,
quite certain that he did. At all events it was sent, or sent back, to England and published
in due course. The immediate effect was a hubbub of discussion, accompanied with general astonishment
in England, a storm of popular resentment and humiliation in Germany, and voluminous comment
in other countries, some of it favourable, some of it unfavourable, to the Emperor.

And continued as follows:--

     Discretion is the first and last quality requisite in a
     diplomatist, and should still be observed by those who, like
     myself, have long passed from public into private life. Yet
     moments sometimes occur in the history of nations when a
     calculated indiscretion proves of the highest public
     service, and it is for that reason that I have decided to
     make known the substance of a lengthy conversation which it
     was my recent privilege to have with his Majesty the German
     Emperor. I do so in the hope that it may help to remove that
     obstinate misconception of the character of the Kaiser's
     feelings towards England which, I fear, is deeply rooted in
     the ordinary Englishman's breast. It is the Emperor's
     sincere wish that it should be eradicated. He has given
     repeated proofs of his desire by word and deed. But, to
     speak frankly, his patience is sorely tried now that he
     finds himself so continually misrepresented, and has so
     often experienced the mortification of finding that any
     momentary improvement of relations is followed by renewed
     out-bursts of prejudice, and a prompt return to the old
     attitude of suspicion.

As I have said, his Majesty honoured me with a long conversation, and spoke with impulsive
and unusual frankness.

"I repeat," continued his Majesty,

     "that I am the friend of England, but you make things
     difficult for me. My task is not of the easiest. The
     prevailing sentiment among large sections of the middle
     and lower classes of my own people is not friendly to
     England. I am, therefore, so to speak, in a minority in my
     own land, but it is a minority of the best elements, just as
     it is in England with respect to Germany. That is another
     reason why I resent your refusal to accept my pledged word
     that I am the friend of England. I strive without ceasing to
     improve relations, and you retort that I am your arch-enemy.
     You make it very hard for me. Why is it?"

Thereupon I ventured to remind his Majesty that not England alone, but the whole of Europe
had viewed with disapproval the recent action of Germany in allowing the German Consul to return
from Tangier to Fez, and in anticipating the joint action of France and Spain by suggesting
to the Powers that the time had come for Europe to recognize Muley Hand as the new Sultan of
Morocco.

His Majesty made a gesture of impatience. "Yes," he said,

     "that is an excellent example of the way in which German
     action is misrepresented. First, then, as regards the
     journey of Dr. Vassel. The German Government, in sending Dr.
     Vassel back to his post at Fez, was only guided by the wish
     that he should look after the private interests of German
     subjects in that city, who cried for help and protection
     after the long absence of a Consular representative. And why
     not send him? Are those who charge Germany with having
     stolen a march on the other Powers aware that the French
     Consular representative had already been in Fez for several
     months when Dr. Vassel set out? Then, as to the recognition
     of Muley I Hand. The Press of Europe has complained with
     much acerbity that Germany ought not to have suggested his
     recognition until he had notified to Europe his full
     acceptance of the Act of Algeciras, as being binding upon
     him as Sultan of Morocco and successor of his brother. My
     answer is that Muley Hafid notified the Powers to that
     effect weeks ago, before the decisive battle was fought. He
     sent, as far back as the middle of last July, an identical
     communication to the Governments of Germany, France, and
     Great Britain, containing an explicit acknowledgment that he
     was prepared to recognize all the obligations towards Europe
     which were incurred by Abdul Aziz during his Sultanate. The
     German Government interpreted that communication as a final
     and authoritative expression of Muley Hand's intentions, and
     therefore they considered that there was no reason to wait
     until he had sent a second communication, before recognizing
     him as the de facto Sultan of Morocco, who had succeeded
     to his brother's throne by right of victory in the field."

I suggested to his Majesty that an important and influential section of the German Press had
placed a very different interpretation upon the action of the German Government, and, in fact,
had given it their effusive approbation precisely because they saw in it a strong act instead
of mere words, and a decisive indication that Germany was once more about to intervene in the
shaping of events in Morocco. "There are mischief-makers," replied the Emperor,

     "in both countries. I will not attempt to weigh their
     relative capacity for misrepresentation. But the facts are
     as I have stated. There has been nothing in Germany's recent
     action with regard to Morocco which runs contrary to the
     explicit declaration of my love of peace which I made both
     at Guildhall and in my latest speech at Strassburg."

His Majesty then reverted to the subject uppermost in his mind--his proved friendship for England.
"I have referred," he said,

     "to the speeches in which I have done all that a sovereign
     can to proclaim my goodwill. But, as actions speak louder
     than words, let me also refer to my acts. It is commonly
     believed in England that throughout the South African War
     Germany was hostile to her. German opinion undoubtedly was
     hostile--bitterly hostile. The Press was hostile; private
     opinion was hostile. But what of official Germany? Let my
     critics ask themselves what brought to a sudden stop, and,
     indeed, to absolute collapse, the European tour of the Boer
     delegates who were striving to obtain European intervention?
     They were feted in Holland; France gave them a rapturous
     welcome. They wished to come to Berlin, where the German
     people would have crowned them with flowers. But when they
     asked me to receive them--I refused. The agitation
     immediately died away, and the delegation returned
     empty-handed. Was that, I ask, the action of a secret enemy?

     "Again, when the struggle was at its height, the German
     Government was invited by the Governments of France and
     Russia to join with them in calling upon England to put an
     end to the war. The moment had come, they said, not only to
     save the Boer Republics, but also to humiliate England to
     the dust. What was my reply? I said that so far from Germany
     joining in any concerted European action to put pressure
     upon England and bring about her downfall, Germany would
     always keep aloof from politics that could bring her into
     complications with a Sea Power like England. Posterity will
     one day read the exact terms of the telegram--now in the
     archives of Windsor Castle--in which I informed the
     Sovereign of England of the answer I had returned to the
     Powers which then sought to compass her fall. Englishmen who
     now insult me by doubting my word should know what were my
     actions in the hour of their adversity.

     "Nor was that all. Just at the time of your Black Week, in
     the December of 1899, when disasters followed one another in
     rapid succession, I received a letter from Queen Victoria,
     my revered grandmother, written in sorrow and affliction,
     and bearing manifest traces of the anxieties which were
     preying upon her mind and health. I at once returned a
     sympathetic reply. Nay, I did more. I bade one of my
     officers procure for me as exact an account as he could
     obtain of the number of combatants in South Africa on both
     sides, and of the actual position of the opposing forces.
     With the figures before me, I worked out what I considered
     to be the best plan of campaign under the circumstances, and
     submitted it to my General Staff for their criticism. Then I
     dispatched it to England, and that document, likewise, is
     among the State papers at Windsor Castle, awaiting the
     serenely impartial verdict of history. And, as a matter of
     curious coincidence, let me add that the plan which I
     formulated ran very much on the same lines as that which was
     actually adopted by Lord Roberts, and carried by him into
     successful operation. Was that, I repeat, the act of one who
     wished England ill? Let Englishmen be just and say!

     "But, you will say, what of the German navy? Surely that is
     a menace to England! Against whom but England are my
     squadrons being prepared? If England is not in the minds of
     those Germans who are bent on creating a powerful fleet, why
     is Germany asked to consent to such new and heavy burdens of
     taxation? My answer is clear. Germany is a young and growing
     Empire. She has a world-wide commerce, which is rapidly
     expanding, and to which the legitimate ambition of patriotic
     Germans refuses to assign any bounds. Germany must have a
     powerful fleet to protect that commerce, and her manifold
     interests in even the most distant seas. She expects those
     interests to go on growing, and she must be able to champion
     them manfully in any quarter of the globe. Germany looks
     ahead. Her horizons stretch far away. She must be prepared
     for any eventualities in the Far East. Who can foresee what
     may take place in the Pacific in the days to come--days not
     so distant as some believe, but days, at any rate, for which
     all European Powers with Far Eastern interests ought
     steadily to prepare? Look at the accomplished rise of Japan;
     think of the possible national awakening of China; and then
     judge of the vast problems of the Pacific. Only those Powers
     which have great navies will be listened to with respect
     when the future of the Pacific comes to be solved; and if
     for that reason only Germany must have a powerful fleet. It
     may even be that England herself will be glad that Germany
     has a fleet when they speak together on the same side in the
     great debates of the future."

Such was the purport of the Emperor's conversation. He spoke with all that earnestness which
marks his manner when speaking on deeply pondered subjects. I would ask my fellow-countrymen
who value the cause of peace to weigh what I have written, and to revise, if necessary, their
estimate of the Kaiser and his friendship for England by his Majesty's own words. If they had
enjoyed the privilege, which was mine, of hearing them spoken, they would doubt no longer either
his Majesty's firm desire to live on the best of terms with England or his growing impatience
at the persistent mistrust with which his offer of friendship is too often received.

There are more indiscretions than one in the interview, but the most important and most dangerous
was the Emperor's statement that at the time of the Boer War the Governments of France and
Russia invited the German Government to join with them "not only to save the Boer Republics,
but also to humiliate England to the dust." Such a revelation coming from the Emperor ought,
one would suppose, to have caused serious trouble between Great Britain and her Entente friends.
That it did not is at once testimony to the cynicism of Governments and the reality and strength
of the Entente engagement. In private life, if a fourth person confidentially told one of the
three partners in a firm that the other two partners had invited him to join them in humiliating
him to the dust, there would have been a pretty brisk, not to say acrimonious correspondence
between the proposed victim and his partners. Governments, it appears, look on things differently,
and so far as the public knows, England simply took no notice of the Emperor's communication.
Possibly, however, the Emperor had put the matter too strongly and an explanation of some kind
was forthcoming. If so, it must be looked for among the secret archives of the Foreign Office.
It was at once suggested that the Emperor made the revelation expressly to weaken, if not destroy,
the Entente. One can conceive Bismarck doing such a thing; but it is more in keeping with the
Emperor's character, and with the indiscreet character of the entire interview, to suppose
it to be a proof of deplorable candour and sincerity.

The excitement in Germany caused by the publication of the interview soon took the shape of
a determination on the part of the Chancellor and the Federal Council, for once fully identifying
themselves with the feelings of Parliament, Press, and people, that "something must be done,"
and it was decided that the Chancellor should go to Potsdam, see the Emperor, and try to obtain
from him a promise to be more cautious in his utterances on political topics for the future.
The Chancellor went accordingly, being seen off from the railway terminus in Berlin by a large
crowd of people, among whom were many journalists. To Dr. Paul Goldmann, who wished him God-speed,
he could only reply that he hoped all would be for the best. He looked pale and grave, as well
he might, since he was about to stake his own position as well as convey a mandate of national
reproach.

What passed at Potsdam between the Emperor and his Chancellor has not transpired. Naturally
there are various accounts of it, one of them representing the Emperor as flying into a passion
and for long refusing to give the required guarantees; but as yet none of them has been authenticated.
It should not be difficult to imagine the mental attitudes of the two men on the occasion,
and especially not difficult to imagine the sensations of the Emperor, a Prussian King, on
being impeached by a people--his people--for whom, his feeling would be, he had done so much,
and in whose best interests he felt convinced he had acted; but whatever occurred, it ended
in the Emperor bowing before the storm and giving the assurances required.

The Chancellor's countenance and expressions on his return to Berlin showed that his mission
had been successful, and there was great satisfaction in the capital and country. The text
of these assurances, which was published in the Official Gazette the same evening, was as follows:

     "His Majesty, while unaffected by public criticism which he
     regards as exaggerated, considers his most honourable
     imperial task to consist in securing the stability of the
     policy of the Empire while adhering to the principle of
     constitutional responsibility. The Kaiser accordingly
     endorses the statements of the Imperial Chancellor in
     Parliament, and assures Prince von Bülow of his continued
     confidence."

After returning to Berlin, Prince Bülow gave in the Reichstag his impatiently awaited account
of the result of his mission, and made what defence he could of his imperial master's action
in allowing the famous interview to be published. Before giving the speech, which was delivered
on November 10, 1908, it will be as well to quote the five interpellations introduced in Parliament
on the subject, as showing the unanimity of feeling that existed in all parts of the House:--

1. By Deputy Bassermann (leader of the National Liberals):

     "Is the Chancellor prepared to take constitutional
     responsibility for the publication of a series of utterances
     of his Majesty the Kaiser in the Daily Telegraph and the
     facts communicated therein?"

2. By Deputy Dr. Ablass (Progressive Party):

     "Through the publication of utterances of the German Kaiser
     in the Daily Telegraph, and through the communication of
     the real facts in the Norddeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung
     caused by the Chancellor, matters have become known which
     demonstrate serious short-comings in the treatment of
     foreign affairs, and are calculated to influence
     unfavourably the relations of the German Empire to other
     Powers. What does the Chancellor propose to do to devise a
     remedy and to give full effect to the responsibility
     attributed to him by the Constitution of the German Empire?"

3. By Deputy Albrecht (Socialist):

     "What is the Chancellor prepared to do to prevent such
     occurrences as have become known through the Daily
     Telegraph's communications regarding acts and utterances of
     the German Kaiser?"

4. By Deputy von Norman (Conservative Party):

     "Is the Chancellor prepared to submit further information
     regarding the circumstances which led to the publication of
     utterances of his Majesty the Kaiser in the English Press?"

5. By Prince von Hatzfeldt and Freiherr von Gamp (Imperial Party--Conservative):

     "Is the Chancellor willing to take precautions that such
     occurrences as that brought to light by the publication in
     the Daily Telegraph shall not recur?"

In reply to the interpellations Prince von Bülow said:--

     "Gentlemen, I shall not apply myself to every point which
     has just been raised by previous speakers. I have to
     consider the effect of my words abroad, and will not add to
     the great harm already caused by the publication in the
     Daily Telegraph (hear, hear, on the Left and Socialists).

     "In reply to the interpellations submitted, I have to
     declare as follows:--

     "His Majesty the Kaiser has at different times, and to
     different private English personalities, made private
     utterances which, linked together, have been published in
     the Daily Telegraph. I must suppose that not all details
     of the utterances have been correctly reproduced (hear,
     hear, on the Right). One I know is not correct: that is the
     story about the plan of campaign (hear, hear, on the right).
     The plan in question was not a field campaign worked out in
     detail, but a purely academic (laughter among the
     Socialists)--Gentlemen, we are engaged in a serious
     discussion. The matters on which I speak are of an earnest
     kind and of great political importance--be good enough to
     listen to me quietly: I will be as brief as possible. I
     repeat therefore: the matter is not concerned with a field
     campaign worked out in detail, but with certain purely
     academic thoughts--I believe they were expressly described
     as 'aphorisms'--about the conduct of war in general, which
     the Kaiser communicated in his interchange of correspondence
     with the late Queen Victoria. They are theoretical
     observations of no practical moment for the course of
     operations and the issue of the war. The chief of the
     General Staff, General von Moltke, and his predecessor,
     General Count Schlieffen, have declared that the General
     Staff reported to the Kaiser on the Boer War as on every
     war, great or small, which has occurred on the earth during
     the last ten years. Both, however, have given assurances
     that our General Staff never examined a field plan of
     campaign, or anything similar, prepared by the Kaiser in
     view of the Boer War, or forwarded such to England (hear,
     hear, on the Right and Centre). But I must also defend our
     policy against the reproach of being ambiguous vis-à-vis
     the Boers. We had--the documents show it--given timely
     warning to the Transvaal Government. We called its attention
     to the fact that in case of a war with England it would
     stand alone. We put it to her directly, and through the
     friendly Dutch Government in May, 1899, peacefully to come
     to an understanding with England, since there could be no
     doubt as to the result of a war.

     "In the question of intervention the colours in the article
     of the Daily Telegraph are too thickly laid on. The thing
     itself had long been known (hear, hear). It was some time
     previously the subject of controversy between the National
     Review and the Deutsche Revue. There can be no talk of a
     'revelation.' It was said that the imperial communication to
     the Queen of England, that Germany had not paid any
     attention to a suggestion for mediation or intervention, is
     a breach of the rules of diplomatic intercourse. Gentlemen,
     I will not recall indiscretions to memory, for they are
     frequent in the diplomatic history of all nations and at all
     times ('Quite right,' on the Right). The safest policy is
     perhaps that which need fear no indiscretion ('Quite right,'
     on the Left). To pass judgment in particular cases as to
     whether or not a breach of confidence has occurred, one must
     know more of the closely connected circumstances than
     appears in the article of the Daily Telegraph. The
     communication might be justified if it were attempted in one
     quarter or another to misrepresent our refusal or to throw
     suspicion on our attitude; circumstances may have previously
     happened which make allusion to the subject in a
     confidential correspondence at least intelligible.
     Gentlemen, I said before that many of the expressions used
     in the Daily Telegraph article are too strong. That is
     true, in the first place, of the passage where the Kaiser is
     represented as having said that the majority of the German
     people are inimically disposed towards England. Between
     Germany and England misunderstandings have occurred,
     serious, regrettable misunderstandings. But I am conscious
     of being at one with this entire honourable House in the
     view that the German people desire peaceful and friendly
     relations with England on the basis of mutual esteem (loud
     and general applause)--and I take note that the speakers of
     all parties have spoken to-day in the same sense ('Quite
     right'). The colours are also too thickly laid on in the
     place where reference is made to our interests in the
     Pacific Ocean. It has been construed in a sense hostile to
     Japan. Wrongly: we have never in the Far East thought of
     anything but this--to acquire and maintain for Germany a
     share of the commerce of Eastern Asia in view of the great
     economic future of this region. We are not thinking of
     maritime adventure there: aggressive tendencies have as
     little to say to our naval construction in the Pacific as in
     Europe. Moreover, his Majesty the Kaiser entirely agrees
     with the responsible director of foreign policy in the
     complete recognition of the high political importance which
     the Japanese people have achieved by their political
     strength and military ability. German policy does not regard
     it as its task to detract from the enjoyment and development
     of what Japan has acquired.

     "Gentlemen, I am, generally speaking, under the impression
     that if the material facts--completely, in their proper
     shape--were individually known, the sensation would be no
     great one; in this instance, too, the whole is more than all
     the parts taken together. But above all, gentlemen, one must
     not, while considering the material things, quite forget the
     psychology, the tendency. For two decades our Kaiser has
     striven, often under very difficult circumstances, to bring
     about friendly relations between Germany and England. This
     honest endeavour has had to contend with obstacles which
     would have discouraged many. The passionate partisanship of
     our people for the Boers was humanly intelligible; feeling
     for the weaker certainly appeals to the sympathy. But this
     partisanship has led to unjustified, and often unmeasured,
     attacks on England, and similarly unjust and hateful attacks
     have been made against Germany from the side of the English.
     Our aims were misconstrued, and hostile plans against
     England were foisted on us which we had never thought of.
     The Kaiser, rightly convinced that this state of things was
     a calamity for both countries and a danger for the civilized
     world, kept undeviatingly on the course he had adopted. The
     Kaiser is particularly wronged by any doubt as to the purity
     of his intentions, his ideal way of thinking, and his deep
     love of country.

     "Gentlemen, let us avoid anything that looks like
     exaggerated seeking for foreign favour, anything that looks
     like uncertainty or obsequiousness. But I understand that
     the Kaiser, precisely because he was anxious to work
     zealously and honestly for good relationship with England,
     felt embittered at being ever the object of attacks casting
     suspicion on his best motives. Has one not gone so far as to
     attribute to his interest in the German fleet secret views
     against vital English interests--views which are far from
     him. And so in private conversation with English friends he
     sought to bring the proof, by pointing to his conduct, that
     in England he was misunderstood and wrongly judged.

     "Gentlemen, the perception that the publication of these
     conversations in England has not had the effect the Kaiser
     wished, and in our own country has caused profound agitation
     and painful regret, will--this firm conviction I have
     acquired during these anxious days--lead the Kaiser for the
     future, in private conversation also, to maintain the
     reserve that is equally indispensable in the interest of a
     uniform policy and for the authority of the Crown ('Bravo!'
     on the Right).

     "If it were not so, I could not, nor could my successor,
     bear the responsibility ('Bravo!' on the Right and National
     Liberals).

     "For the fault which occurred in dealing with the manuscript
     I accept, as I have caused to be said in the Norddeutsche
     Allgemeine Zeitung, entire responsibility. It also goes
     against my personal feelings that officials who have done
     their duty all their lives should be stamped as
     transgressors because, in a single case, they relied too
     much on the fact that I usually read and finally decide
     everything myself.

     "With Herr von Heydebrand I regret that in the mechanism of
     the Foreign Office, which for eleven years has worked
     smoothly under me, a defect should on one occasion occur. I
     will answer for it that such a thing does not happen again,
     and that with this object, without respect to persons,
     though also without injustice, what is needful will be done
     ('Bravo!').

     "When the article in the Daily Telegraph appeared, its
     fateful effect could not for a moment be doubtful to me, and
     I handed in my resignation. This decision was unavoidable,
     and was not difficult to come to. The most serious and most
     difficult decision which I ever took in my political life
     was, in obedience to the Kaiser's wish, to remain in office.
     I brought myself to this decision only because I saw in it a
     command of my political duty, precisely in the time of
     trouble, to continue to serve his Majesty the Kaiser and the
     country (repeated 'Bravo!'). How long that will be possible
     for me, I cannot say.

     "Let me say one thing more: at a moment when the fact that
     in the world much is once again changing requires serious
     attention to be given to the entire situation, wherever it
     is matter of concern to maintain our position abroad, and
     without pushing ourselves forward with quiet constancy to
     make good our interests--at such a moment we ought not to
     show ourselves small-spirited in foreign eyes, nor make out
     of a misfortune a catastrophe. I will refrain from all
     criticism of the exaggerations we have lived through during
     these last days. The harm is--as calm reflection will
     show--not so great that it cannot with circumspection be
     made good. Certainly no one should forget the warning which
     the events of these days has given us ('Bravo!')--but there
     is no reason to lose our heads and awake in our opponents
     the hope that the Empire, inwardly or outwardly, is maimed.

     "It is for the chosen representatives of the nation to
     exhibit the prudence which the time demands. I do not say it
     for myself, I say it for the country: the support required
     for this is no favour, it is a duty which this honourable
     House will not evade (loud applause on the Right, hisses
     from the Socialists)."

Prince Bülow's speech requires but little comment--its importance for Germany is the fact that
it brought to a head the country's feeling, that if the Emperor's unlimited and unrestrained
idea of his heaven-sent mission as sole arbiter of the nation's destinies was not checked,
disaster must ensue. The speech itself is rather an apology and an explanation than a defence,
and in this spirit it was accepted in Germany. It is fair to say that the Emperor has faithfully
kept the engagement made through Prince Bülow with his people so far, and unless human nature
is incurable there seems no reason why he should not keep it to the end of the reign. More
than four years have passed since the incidents narrated occurred. The storm has blown over,
the sea of popular indignation has gone down, and at present no cloud is visible on the horizon.

Besides the Tweedmouth Letter and the "November Storm" there were one or two other notable
events in the parliamentary proceedings of the year. The Reichstag dealt with Prussian electoral
reform and the attitude of Germany towards the question of disarmament. As to the first, the
Government refused to regard it as an imperial concern, though the popular claim was and is
that the suffrage should be the same in Prussia as in the Empire, viz., universal, direct,
and secret. This claim the Emperor will not listen to, on the ground that it would injure the
influence of the middle classes by the admission of undesirable elements (meaning the Socialists);
that the electoral system for the Empire, with the latter's national tasks, should be on a
broader basis than in the case of the individual States, where the electors are chiefly concerned
with administration, the school, and the Church; and that it would bring the Imperial and Prussian
Parliaments into conflict to the injury of German unity. The Emperor has made only one reference
to electoral reform in Prussia, a promise, namely, he gave the Diet in October of this year,
that the regulations concerning the voting should experience

     "an organic further development, which should correspond to
     the economic progress, the spread of education and political
     understanding, and the strengthening of the feeling of State
     responsibility."

No reform, however, has yet been effected by legislation.

As to disarmament, Germany's position is simply negative, though it may be noticed by anticipation
that she has recently (1913) expressed her disposition to accept the proportion of ten German
to sixteen English first-class battleships suggested by Sir Edward Grey in 1912 as offering
the basis of a possibly permanent arrangement. At the time now dealt with, however, Chancellor
von Bülow asserted that no proposal that could serve as a basis had ever been submitted to
his Government, and added that even if such a proposal were made it was doubtful if it could
be accepted. It was not merely the number of ships, he said, that was involved; there were
a host of technical questions--standards, criteria of all sorts, which could not be expressed
in figures, economic progress abroad and the possible effect of new scientific inventions--to
be considered. Lastly there were the navy laws, which the Government was pledged to carry out.
As for military disarmament, the Emperor and his advisers regard it as impossible, considering
the unfavourable strategic situation of Germany in the midst of Europe, with exposed frontiers
on every side.

This year the Emperor and his family took up their quarters for the first time in their new
Corfu spring residence "Achilleion." They were met by the Royal Family of Greece, who showed
them over the Castle, and in the evening were welcomed by the mayor of Corfu, who, in a flight
of metaphor, said his people desired to wreathe the Emperor's "Olympic brow" with a crown of
olive. That the Emperor did not pass his days wholly in admiring the beauty of the scenery
was shown by the fact that a few days after his arrival he delivered a lecture in the Castle
on "Nelson and the Battle of Trafalgar," being prompted thereto by a book on the subject by
Captain Mark Kerr, of H.M.S. Implacable. The Emperor illustrated his lecture with sketches
drawn by himself of the positions of the united French and Spanish fleets during the battle.

Almost every year sees some specialty produced at the Royal Opera in Berlin. This year it was
Meyerbeer's "Les Huguenots," performed in the presence of the French Ambassador in Berlin,
Monsieur Jules Cambon, and two directors of the Paris Opera. The Emperor told Monsieur Messager,
one of the latter, that he had taken an infinity of trouble to get the right character, colour,
and movement of the period of the opera, and explained his interest in the work by the fact
that he had lost two of his ancestors, Admiral Coligny and the Prince of Orange, in the historic
massacre. This opera, with Verdi's "Aida," are still, as given at the Royal Opera, the favourite
operas of the Berlin public.

Americans, like all other people, regard the Emperor with friendly feelings, but for a time
this year their respect for him suffered some diminution owing to what was known as the Tower-Hill
affair. When the American Ambassador in Berlin, Mr. Charlemagne Tower, resigned his post in
1908, the Washington authorities found difficulty in choosing a suitable successor. Mr. Tower
was a wealthy man, who by his personal qualities, aided by a talented wife, whom the Emperor
once described as "the Moltke of society," and by frequent entertainments in one of the finest
houses of the fashionable Tiergarten quarter, had fully satisfied the Emperor of his fitness
to represent a great nation at the Court of a great Empire. The Emperor has a high opinion
of his country, and, in small things as in great, will not have it treated as a quantité négligeable:
consequently a millionaire was not too good for Berlin. The impression produced by Mr. Tower
on Republican America was not quite the same. When Ambassador in St. Petersburg, Mr. Tower
had invented a Court uniform for himself and staff of a highly ornate, not to say fantastic,
kind, and when in Berlin was thought to take too little trouble to win popularity among his
American fellow-colonists. This non-republican attitude, as it seemed to be, met with a good
deal of adverse criticism in America, and the Washington authorities, for that or for some
other reason, considered it advisable to choose as Mr. Tower's successor a man of another type.
Their choice fell on Dr. David Jayne Hill, American Minister at Berne, a former President of
Rochester University, the author of a standard work on the History of Diplomacy, and as renowned
for the amiability of his character as for his academic attainments. A further reason for choosing
him was that he had been attached to the service of the Emperor's brother, Prince Henry, during
the latter's visit to the United States some years before. Dr. Hill spoke German excellently,
was able and distinguished, and, if not a man of great means, was sufficiently well-to-do to
represent his country becomingly at the Court of Berlin. His selection was in due course communicated
for agrément to the German Foreign Office, and by it, also in due course, transmitted to the
Emperor. The Emperor without more ado signed the agrément and the arrival of Dr. Hill in Berlin
was daily expected.

Just at this time, however, Mr. Tower gave a farewell dinner to the Emperor, and invited to
it specially from Rome the American Ambassador to Italy, Mr. Griscom. Mr. Griscom was accompanied
by his clever and attractive wife. The dinner-party assembled, and Mr. Griscom and his wife
were placed in the immediate neighbourhood of the Emperor. Before dinner was over it was evident
that the Griscoms had made a most favourable impression on the imperial guest. Accordingly,
so the story goes, when towards the end of dinner the Emperor, in his impulsive way, exclaimed,
"Now, why didn't America send me the Griscoms instead of the Hills?" or words to that effect,
the company was not completely taken by surprise. When, however, the Emperor went on to suggest
to his host to telegraph to President Roosevelt to make the change, it became evident that
an international incident of exceptional delicacy had been created. Mr. Tower, who would perhaps
have acted with better judgment had he declined to adopt the Emperor's suggestion, cabled to
President Roosevelt, and at the same Mr. Griscom wrote to him privately. Before Mr. Griscom's
letter arrived, perhaps before Mr. Roosevelt was in possession of Mr. Tower's telegram, the
words of the Emperor had become known in Berlin, were cabled to the American Press, and much
indignation at the Emperor's conduct was aroused in all parts of America. The two Governments,
as well as Dr. Hill, were placed in a position of great embarrassment. In view of the state
of public opinion in America, and in view also of the American Government's engagement vis
à vis Dr. Hill, the Washington authorities could not withdraw a nominee who had been already
signalled to it from Germany as persona grata. The only way possible out of the difficulty
was to employ the machinery of the official démenti, and this was accordingly done. It was
denied by the Foreign Office that the Emperor had expressed dissatisfaction with Dr. Hill's
appointment, and the incident closed with the carrying out of the original arrangements and
the arrival of Dr. Hill in Berlin. Subsequent events proved that had the Emperor known Dr.
Hill personally he would never have thought of expressing dissatisfaction at the prospect of
seeing him as Ambassador at his Court, for Dr. Hill, during the two years of his stay, fully
vindicated the wisdom of the Washington Government's choice, and before he left his post had
earned the Emperor's complete respect, if not his cordial friendship.

XV.

AFTER THE STORM

1909-1913

Next year, 1909, was the year of the famous finance reform measure which, though finally carried
through, led to the resignation of Chancellor von Bülow. It had been obvious for some years
that a reorganization of the imperial system of finance with a view to meeting the growing
expenses of the Empire, and in especial those of the army and navy, was necessary if imperial
bankruptcy was to be avoided. The practice of taking what were known as matricular contributions
from the separate States to make up for deficits in the imperial budgets, and of burdening
posterity by State loans, had one day to cease. At the beginning of the reign the National
Debt was 884 million marks (£44,200,000), and in 1908 over 4,000 million marks (£200,000,000).
A year before this Prince Bülow had made his first proposals for reform, including new taxes
on beer, wine, tobacco, and succession duties on property.

All parties in Parliament, except of course the Social Democrats, admitted that fresh imposts
were inevitable, but, very naturally, no party was willing to bear them. The Conservatives
would not hear of an inheritance tax and the Liberals would not hear of duties on popular consumption.
The result was to make the Centrum masters of the political field and place the Conservative-Liberal
"bloc" at its mercy. After long discussion, the Government proposals were put to the vote on
June 24th, and as the Centrum threw in its lot with the Conservatives, the proposals were rejected
by 195 votes to 187. Prince Bülow thereupon went to Kiel and tendered his resignation to the
Emperor, but at the latter's urgent request consented to remain in office until financial reform
in one shape or another had been effected. This result was attained a month later, after much
compromising and discussion. The Chancellor renewed his request for retirement, and the Emperor
agreed. On the same day, July 14th, that the resignation took effect, it was officially announced
that Herr von Bethmann-Hollweg, who had hitherto been Minister of the Interior, was appointed
to succeed Prince von Bülow as Imperial Chancellor.

An impression prevails widely in Germany that Prince Bülow's retirement was due to the loss
of the Emperor's favour owing to the Prince's attitude towards the monarch during the "November
storm." Prince Bülow, very properly, has always refused to say anything about his relations
with his royal master, but a lengthy statement he made to a newspaper correspondent referring
his resignation to the conduct of the Conservatives, and a letter from the Emperor gratefully
thanking the Prince in the warmest terms for his "long and intimate co-operation," and conferring
upon him at the same time the highest Order in the Empire, that of the Black Eagle, should
be sufficient evidence to disprove the supposition. It is more probable that the Prince was
weary of the cares of office and of the strife of party. Moreover, he had, in the state of
his health, a strong private reason for retirement. Four years before, on April 5, 1906, he
had fallen unconscious from his seat on the ministerial bench during the proceedings in the
Reichstag, and although he was back again in Parliament, perfectly recovered, in the following
November, the attack was an experience which warned him against too great a prolongation of
such heavy work and responsibility as the Chancellorship entails.

The retirement of Prince Bülow meant the disappearance of the most notable figure in German
political life since the beginning of the century. In ability, wit, and those graces of a refined
and richly cultivated mind which have so often distinguished great English statesmen, he was
a head and shoulders above any of his fellow-countrymen; while the mere fact that he was able
to maintain his position for almost twelve years (he had been, as Foreign Secretary for over
two years, the Emperor's most trusted counsellor and the real executive in foreign policy)
is a convincing proof of his tact and diplomatic talent, as well as of his statesmanship.

His successor, the present Chancellor, Herr von Bethmann-Hollweg, is a man of another and very
different type. He incorporates the spirit of Prussian patriotism of the most orthodox kind
in its worthiest and best manifestations, but as yet he has given no proofs of possessing the
breadth of view, the oratorical talent, or the urbanity which distinguished his predecessor.
Prince von Bülow's career as a German diplomatist in foreign capitals made him an acute and
highly polished man of the world. The present Chancellor has spent all his life within the
comparatively narrow confines of Prussian administrative service. It is, of course, too soon
to pass final judgment on him as German Prime Minister.

The visit of King Edward VII and Queen Alexandra to Berlin in February, 1909, disposed finally
of the idea, which had prevailed in Germany as well as abroad for two or three years, that
England was pursuing a policy aiming to bring about the "isolation" of Germany in world-politics.
The visit was an official one, paid, of course, chiefly to the Emperor; but its most remarkable
feature politics apart, was the friendly relations which King Edward established with the Berlin
City Fathers at a reception in the Town Hall. It was not that he said anything out of the way
to the assembled burghers; but his simple manner, genial remarks, and perhaps especially the
sympathetic way in which he handled the loving-cup offered by his hosts, made an instantaneous
and strong impression.

The controversy that raged round the so-called "Flora Bust" contributed not a little to the
gaiety of nations towards the close of this year. The bust, an undraped wax figure, reproducing
the features of Leonardo da Vinci's famous "La Joconde," was bought by Dr. Wilhelm Bode, Director
of the Kaiser Friedrich Museum in Berlin, for £8,000 from a London dealer as an authentic work
of the celebrated Italian painter, dating from about the year 1500. It was brought with a great
flourish of trumpets to Berlin, and a chorus of self-congratulation was raised in Germany on
the successful carrying off of such a prize from England. The harmony, however, was rudely
disturbed by the publication of a letter from Mr. F.C. Cooksey, art critic of the Times, stating
that the bust was not by da Vinci at all, but was in reality the work of Mr. R.C. Lucas, an
artist of some note forty or fifty years ago, and that it had for long occupied a pedestal
in Lucas's suburban garden.

The Emperor, whose curiosity as well as patriotism was aroused, spent half an hour on November
11th discussing the bust with Dr. Bode and examining an album containing photographs of the
works of Lucas. At the close of his inspection the Emperor expressed great delight at the acquisition,
as to the genuineness of which he declared he "had not the slightest doubt," and said he did
not regard the price paid as extremely high. Unfortunately for the Emperor's conviction, a
letter now appeared in the Times from Mr. A.C. Lucas, a son of R.C. Lucas, who said he recollected
the making of the bust, and suggested that there might be found in its interior a piece of
cloth, probably a part of an old waistcoat of his father's, which had been used as a sort of
filling. In the presence of such a statement there was only one thing left to be done: to examine
the interior of the bust. First of all it was subjected to the Roentgen rays, the result being
to show that the interior was not homogeneous. A few days after, there was a great gathering
of experts at the Museum, a hole was cut in the wax at the back of the bust, a bent wire was
introduced, and the search for the famous piece of waistcoat began. It was a dramatic moment
as Professor Latghen with his wire explored the interior of the bust, and the tension reached
its highest point when the Professor, drawing from the bust what was evidently a piece of cloth,
exclaimed, "Hier ist die Veste!" On being further withdrawn the substance proved to be about
two square inches of a grey, canvas-like material, feeling soft and velvety to the touch. It
was a disagreeable discovery for the Germans, but it was got over by the suggestion that the
original bust had been entrusted to Lucas for repair, and that in this way the waistcoat had
got into it. The "poor English newspapers," Dr. Bode said, referring to the sarcastic comments
on the discovery from the other side of the Channel, "had had, without any acquaintance with
our bust or with the work of its alleged forger, to give this particular form of expression
to their ill-humour at the sale." As a matter of fact, the bust, whoever made it, is a lovely
work of art, as every one who has seen it readily admits.

The Emperor's friendship with Mr. Theodore Roosevelt, which was now to be confirmed by personal
acquaintance, throws a side light on his own character, and testifies to his desire to keep
in touch with the rulers of other countries--another illustration, by the way, of his consistency,
since he laid down the policy of cultivating friendly relations with foreign rulers at the
very commencement of his reign. Probably many letters in the large characteristic handwriting
of both men have passed between them, and there probably always existed a desire on the part
of the wielder of the mailed fist to make the personal acquaintance of the advocate of the
big stick. The meeting occurred in May, 1910, after Mr. Roosevelt had shot wild beasts in Africa,
visited Egypt, London, Vienna, Rome, and other continental cities, with a cohort of newspaper
correspondents, and caused by his speeches political, if fortunately harmless, disturbance
almost everywhere he went. When in Berlin he was to have lodged at the Emperor's palace; but
the Emperor's hospitable intent was frustrated by the death of King Edward VII, which prevented
all entertainment in the home of his German nephew.

The Roosevelt party, consisting of the ex-President, Mrs. Roosevelt, and Miss Ethel Roosevelt,
arrived in Berlin on May 11th from Stockholm, and at noon the same day were taken by royal
train to Potsdam. At the New Palace the party were heartily greeted by the Emperor, whom they
found standing on the steps waiting to receive them. After shaking hands the Emperor led his
guests into a small reception-room, where they were introduced to the Empress, the Crown Prince
and Crown Princess, and other members of the imperial family. The Emperor then took them to
the Shell Room, so called from its being inlaid with shells and rare stones, and here were
found some of the Emperor's high officials, including Admiral von Müller, chief of the Marine
Cabinet, and one of the most able and amiable of the Emperor's entourage, who had met Mr. Roosevelt
when on his trip to America with Prince Henry several years before. Luncheon followed at six
small tables in the Jasper Gallery, the Emperor taking his seat between Mrs. Roosevelt and
the Crown Princess, while the Empress had Mr. Roosevelt on her left and her eldest son, the
Crown Prince, on her right. Princess Victoria Louise, the Emperor's only daughter, occupied
a seat on Mr. Roosevelt's left. After lunch was over the guests went back to the Shell Room,
and here the Emperor, taking Mr. Roosevelt apart, began a conversation so long and animated
that the shades of evening began to fall before it ended. The Roosevelts did not return to
Berlin by train, but were first driven by the Emperor to inspect Sans Souci, and were afterwards
whirled back to Berlin in the yellow imperial motors.

Only two other incidents of the visit need be mentioned. One of them was a lecture on "The
World Movement," delivered by Mr. Roosevelt in very husky tones (for he was suffering badly
from hoarseness) at Berlin University, in the presence of the Emperor and Empress. The other
was a parade of 12,000 troops, arranged by the Emperor at Doeberitz, the great military exercise
camp near Potsdam, which Mr. Roosevelt, clad in a khaki coat and breeches, and wearing brown
leather gaiters and black slouch hat, observed from horseback beside the Emperor. As the troops
went by at the close of the review the Emperor and Mr. Roosevelt saluted in military fashion
simultaneously.

Immediately after the visit of the Roosevelts, the Emperor was called to England to attend
the funeral of King Edward VII. The imperial yacht Hohenzollern, with the Emperor on board,
arrived in England on May 19th. Next day the Emperor travelled to Victoria terminus, where
he was received and warmly embraced by King George. They proceeded to Buckingham Palace, where
the Emperor's first call was made on the widowed Queen Alexandra. On the 21st took place the
funeral of King Edward, the procession to Westminster Abbey, where the service was held, being
headed by King George with the Emperor on his right and the Duke of Connaught on his left.
Both the Emperor and the Duke were dressed in Field-Marshal's uniform and carried the bâtons
of their rank. The countenance of the Emperor is described by a chronicler of the time (and
the Times) as wearing "an expression grave even to severity."

The procession moved slowly on to the famous Abbey, the Emperor riding a grey horse, saluting
at intervals as he rode along. On arrival at the Abbey an incident occurred. As soon as Queen
Alexandra's carriage arrived and drew up, the Emperor, according to the accounts of eyewitnesses,
ran to the door of the carriage with so much alacrity that he had reached it before the royal
servants, and when it appeared that her Majesty was not to alight from that side of the carriage,
the Emperor motioned the lacqueys round to the other door, and was there before them to assist
her Majesty. This he did, after himself opening the door. The Emperor remained in England only
a very few days after the funeral, seeing old friends, among them Lord Kitchener.

As of interest to both Englishmen and Germans may be mentioned the tour through India undertaken
by the Crown Prince in November. Steele once happily said of a Lady Hastings that "to love
her was a liberal education"; to make a tour through India, it might similarly be said, is
an education in the extent and character of British imperial power and administration. The
Crown Prince naturally devoted a goodly share of his time to the delights of sport, including
tiger-shooting and pig-sticking, but he must also have learned much of England's fine imperial
spirit from his intercourse with an official hierarchy as honest and conscientious as that
of his own country. The Crown Prince, on his return home, published a volume of hunting reminiscences
which does no small credit to him as an author.

The Emperor's "shining armour" political remark dates from this period. He was on a visit to
his Triplice ally, Kaiser Franz Josef, in September, 1910, and made a speech at the Vienna
Town Hall on the 21st which contained a reference to the loyal conduct he claimed Germany had
observed when the action of Austria-Hungary in annexing Bosnia and Herzegovina, despite the
wording of the Treaty of Berlin, had raised an outcry in other countries, and in particular
strained Austrian relations with Russia. After thanking his audience for the personal reception
given him, he continued:

     "On the other hand, it seems to me I read in your resolution
     the agreement of the city of Vienna with the action of an
     ally in taking his stand in shining armour at a grave moment
     by the side of your most gracious sovereign."

The outcry caused in the world by Austria's high-handed annexation, and especially in Russia,
theoretically always Austria's most probable enemy, owing to conflicting interests in the Balkans,
subsided, we know, as suddenly as it was raised. The reason, it is currently believed, and
the form in which the rays of the shining armour acted, was an intimation from the Emperor
to the Czar that, if necessary, Germany was prepared to fight for Austria.

Peoples are said to have the institutions, and husbands the wives, they deserve; but if German
cities, and especially Berlin, have the police they deserve, the fact speaks very uncomplimentarily
for their inhabitants. Foreigners in Germany, coming from countries where manners are more
natural and obliging, frequently use the adjectives "brutal" and "stupid" when speaking of
the Prussian constable. The proceedings of the Berlin police during the Moabit riots in the
capital in September this year are often quoted as an example of their brutality, while, as
to stupidity, it is enough to say that a stranger in Berlin, discussing its mounted police,
naïvely remarked that what most struck him about them was the look of intelligence on the faces
of the horses. Judgments of this kind are too sweeping. It should be remembered that Germany
is surrounded by countries of which the riff-raff is at all times seeking refuge in it or passing
through it, that polyglot swindlers of every kind, the most refined as well as the most commonplace,
abound, and that Anarchists are not yet an extinct species. For the Prussian police, moreover,
there is a Social Democrat behind every bush.

Possibly to this condition of things, and to the suspicion that Social Democratic organizers
were about, was due the gallant charge made by half a dozen policemen, with drawn swords in
their hands and revolvers at their belts, on four inoffensive English and American journalists
during the Moabit riots. Towards midnight of September 29th the journalists were seated in
an open taximeter cab, in a brilliantly lighted square, which some little time before had been
swept of rioters--rioters from the Berlin police point of view being any one, man, woman, or
child, who is, with guilty or innocent intent, it makes no difference, in or near a theatre
of disturbance. Suddenly half a dozen burly policemen, led on by a police spy, as he afterwards
turned out to be, charged the cab and laid about them with their swords. They probably only
intended to use the flat of their weapons, but one of them succeeded in slashing deeply the
hand of Reuter's representative, who was of the party. The other journalists escaped with contusions
and bruises, thanks chiefly to the sides of the cab impeding the sword-play of the attackers.

The journalists naturally complained to their Ambassadors, who took up their cause with commendable
readiness. Without immediate effect, however; the authorities, though themselves very strong
on the point of duty, wondered much at journalists being in a place where duty alone could
have brought them, and refused any sort of apology or other satisfaction. The Government, however,
eventually expressed its "regret," and a year or two after, possibly in the spirit of conciliation
and compensation, agreed to give foreign journalists in Berlin the passe-partout, or coupe-fil,
as it is known in France, which is one of the privileges most valued by the journalist, native
and foreign, in Paris.

Among the international agreements of the year was a commercial one between Germany and America.
Commercial relations between the two countries have never been quite satisfactory to either,
and if there is no tariff war, occasions of tariff tension, with consequent disturbance of
trade, constantly arise. Germany's European commercial treaties have secured her a sufficiency
of raw material for her industry. Her chief object now is not so much perhaps to facilitate
imports of material from other countries as to find markets, in America as elsewhere, for her
industry's finished products. Consequently she strongly dislikes the high tariff barriers of
the United States, inaugurated by the Dingley tariff of 1897, and has in addition certain grievances
against that country regarding customs administration in respect of appraisement, invoices,
and the like. Her commercial connexion with America dates from the treaty of "friendship and
commerce" made by Frederick the Great, and having the most-favoured-nation treatment as its
basis; a regular treaty of the same kind between Prussia and America was entered into in 1828;
and since then commercial relations have been regulated provisionally by a series of short-term
agreements which, however, America claims, do not confer on Germany unrestricted right to most-favoured-nation
treatment. By the agreement now in force, concluded this year (1910), America and Germany grant
each other the benefit of their minimum duties.

Since the "November storm" the Emperor had made no reference to the doctrine of Divine Right,
nor given any indication of a desire to exercise the "personal regiment" which is the natural
corollary to it. It has been seen that the doctrine, viewed from the English standpoint, is
a species of mental malady to which Hohenzollern monarchs are hereditarily subject. It recurs
intermittently and particularly whenever a Hohenzollern monarch speaks in Koenigsberg, the
Scone of Prussia, where Prussian Kings are crowned. When at Koenigsberg this year the Emperor
suffered from a return of the royal idée fixe. "Here my grandfather," he said,

     "placed, by his own right, the crown of the Kings of Prussia
     on his head, once again laying stress upon the fact that it
     was conferred upon him by the Grace of God alone, not by
     Parliament, by meetings of the people, or by popular
     decisions; and that he considered himself the chosen
     instrument of Heaven and as such performed his duties as
     regent and as ruler."

Speaking of himself on the occasion he said:

     "Considering myself as an Instrument of the Lord, without
     being misled by the views and opinions of the day, I go my
     way, which is devoted solely and alone to the prosperity and
     peaceful development of our Fatherland."

The Emperor, by the way, on this occasion made what sounds like an indirect reference to the
Suffragette craze. "What shall our women," he asked, after mentioning the pattern Queen of
Prussia, Queen Louise,

     "learn from the Queen? They must learn that the principal
     task of the German woman does not lie in attending public
     meetings and belonging to societies, in the attainment of
     supposed rights in which women can emulate men, but in the
     quiet work of the home and in the family."

The Emperor's reference to his divine appointment did not pass without a good deal of popular
criticism in Germany, but nearly all Germans were at one with the Emperor in his view of the
proper sphere for womanly activities.

The Emperor's domestic life for the last two or three years, including the early months of
the present year, have passed without special cause of interest or excitement, if we except
the visit he and the Empress made to London in May, 1911, to be present at the unveiling of
Queen Victoria's statue, and the announcement he was able to make a few months ago that his
only daughter, Princess Victoria Louise, had become engaged to Prince Ernest August, Duke of
Cumberland, the still persisting claimant to the Kingdom of Hannover, absorbed by Prussia in
1866. The visit to London lasted only five days and produced no incident particularly worthy
of record. The engagement of Princess Victoria Louise, while generally believed to be a love-match,
possesses also political significance for Germany, not indeed as putting an end to the claim
of the Duke of Cumberland, but as practically effecting a reconciliation between the Hohenzollerns
and Guelphs. The young Duke of Brunswick had already implicitly renounced his claim to Hannover
by entering the German army and taking the oath of allegiance to the Emperor as War Lord, so
that, when his father dies, the Guelph claim to Hannover will die with him.

It is difficult to determine whether the Government's abandonment of its design to amend the
Prussian franchise system in 1910, its submissive attitude towards the Pope's Borromeo Encyclical
in 1911, the rapid rise in food prices which marked both years, or finally, the Emperor's failure
to secure a slice of Morocco for Germany had most antagonizing effect on German popular feeling;
but whatever the cause, the general elections of January, 1912, proved a tremendous Socialist
victory, which must have been, and still remains, gall and wormwood to the Emperor. Notwithstanding
official efforts, over one-third of the votes polled at the first ballots went for Social Democratic
candidates. The number of seats thus obtained was 64, and this number, after the second ballots,
rose to 110, thus making the Socialist party numerically the strongest in the Reichstag. Up
to the present, however, Herr Bebel and his cohorts appear to be happy in possessing power
rather than in using it.

Before completing the Emperor's domestic chronicle of more recent years, a few lines may be
devoted to the role in which he has last appeared before the public--that of farmer. On February
12, 1913, he attended a meeting of the German Agricultural Council in Berlin, and with only
a few statistical notes to help him narrated in lively and amusing fashion his experiences
as owner of a farm, the management of which he has been personally supervising since 1898.
The farm is part of the Cadinen Estate, bequeathed to him by an admirer and universally known
for the majolica ware made out of the clay found on the property. The Emperor was able to show
that he had achieved remarkable success with his farm, and particularly with a fine species
of bull, Bos indicus major, he maintained on it. A year or two before, at a similar meeting,
when speaking of the same breed of bull, he caused much hilarity among the military portion
of his audience by jokingly remarking that it had "nothing to do with the General Staff." On
the present occasion he also caused laughter by recounting how he had "fired," to use an American
expression exactly equivalent to the German word employed by the Emperor, a tenant who "wasn't
any use." The Emperor, however, would, as it turned out, have done better by not mentioning
the incident, for the Supreme Court at Leipzig a few days subsequently quashed the Emperor's
order of ejectment on the tenant and condemned him to pay all the costs in the case. The role
of farmer, it may be added, is one which, had he been born a country gentleman like Bismarck,
the Emperor would have filled with complete success. But in what role would he not have done well?

Foreign politics everywhere for the last three or four years have been full of incident, outcry,
and bloodshed. The state of things, indeed, prevailing in the world for some time past is extraordinary.
A visitant from another planet would imagine that normal peace and abnormal war had changed
places, and that civilized mankind now regard peace as an interlude of war, not war as an interlude
of peace. He would be wrong, of course, but the race in armament, which threatens to leave
the nations taking part in it financially breathless and exhausted, might easily lead him astray.
On some of the situations with which these politics are concerned we may briefly touch.

For the last three or four years the dominant note in the music of what is called the European
Concert, taking Europe for the moment to include Great Britain, has been the state of Anglo-German
relations. There have been times, as has been seen, when public feeling in both England and
Germany was strongly antagonized, but all through the period there has been evident a desire
on the part of both Governments to adopt a mutually conciliatory attitude, and if the war in
the Balkans does not lead to a general international conflagration, which at present appears
improbable, the two countries may arrive at a permanent understanding. There was, and not so
very long ago, a similar state of tension, prolonged for many years, between England and France.
That tension not only ceased, but was converted into political friendship by the Anglo-French
Agreement of 1904. Parallel with this tension between England and France was the tension between
England and Russia, owing to the latter's advance towards England's Indian possessions. The
latter state of things ended with the Anglo-Russian Agreement of 1907, and it should engender
satisfaction and hope, therefore, to those who now apprehend a war between England and Germany
to note that neither of the tensions referred to, though both were long and bitter, developed
into war.

The tension between England and Germany of late years has been tightened rather than relaxed
by ministerial speeches as well as by newspaper polemics in both countries. One of the most
disturbing of the former was the speech delivered by Mr. Lloyd George at the Mansion House
on July 21, 1911. Doubtless with the approval of the Prime Minister, Mr. Asquith, Mr. Lloyd
George said:

     "I believe it is essential, in the highest interest not
     merely of this country, but of the world, that Britain
     should at all hazards maintain her place and her prestige
     amongst the Great Powers of the world. Her potent influence
     has many a time been in the past, and may yet be in the
     future, invaluable to the cause of human liberty. It has
     more than once in the past redeemed continental nations,
     which are sometimes too apt to forget that service, from
     overwhelming disasters and even from national extinction. I
     would make great sacrifices to preserve peace. I conceive
     that nothing would justify a disturbance of international
     goodwill except questions of the gravest national moment.
     But if a situation were to be forced upon us in which peace
     could only be preserved by the surrender of the great and
     beneficent position Britain has won by centuries of heroism
     and achievement, by allowing Britain to be treated, where
     her interests are vitally affected, as if she were of no
     account in the cabinet of nations, then I say emphatically
     that peace at that price would be a humiliation intolerable
     for a great country like ours to endure."

These rhetorical platitudes were uttered at the time of the "conversations" between the French
and German Foreign Offices about the compensation claimed by Germany for giving France, once
for all, a free hand in Morocco. Germany was apparently making demands of an exorbitant character,
and what Mr. Lloyd George really meant was that if Germany persisted in these demands England
would fight on the side of France in order to resist them. As a genuinely democratic speaker,
however, he followed the rule of many publicists, who are paid for their articles by the column
and say to themselves, "Why use two words when five will do?"

Another unfortunate remark that may be noted in this connexion was that made by Mr. Winston
Churchill in referring to the German navy as "to some extent a luxury." The remark, though
true (also to a certain extent), was unfortunate, for it irritated public opinion in Germany,
where it was regarded as a species of impertinent interference.

As evidence of the desire on the part of the Emperor and his Government for a friendly arrangement
with England may be quoted the statement made in December, 1910, by the German Chancellor,
Herr von Bethmann-Hollweg, to the following effect:--

     "We also meet England in the desire to avoid rivalry in
     regard to armaments, and non-binding pourparlers, which
     have from time to time taken place, have been conducted on
     both sides in a friendly spirit. We have always advanced the
     opinion that a frank and sincere interchange of views,
     followed by an understanding with regard to the economic and
     political interests of the two countries, offers the surest
     means of allaying all mistrust on the subject of the
     relations of the Powers to each other on sea and land."

The Chancellor went on to explain that this mistrust had manifested itself "not in the case
of the Governments, but of public opinion."

With regard, in particular, to a naval understanding between England and Germany, Chancellor
von Bülow, in a Budget speech in March, 1909, declared that up to that time no proposals regarding
the dimensions of the fleets or the amount of naval expenditure which could serve as a basis
for an understanding had been made on the side of England, though non-binding conversations
had taken place on the subject between authoritative English and German personalities. In March
last year (1912) such proposals may be said to have been made in the form of a suggestion by
Sir Edward Grey during the Budget debate that the ratio of 16 to 10 (i.e., 50 per cent. more
and 10 per cent. over) should express the naval strength of the two countries. The suggestion
was "welcomed" by Admiral von Tirpitz on behalf of Germany in February, 1913. And there the
matter rests.

A perhaps inevitable result of the tension between England and Germany during the period under
consideration has been the amount of mutual espionage discovered to be going on in both countries.
An incident that attracted wide attention was the arrest in 1910 of Captains Brandon and Trench,
the former of whom was arrested at Borkum and the latter at Emden. They were tried before the
Supreme Court at Leipzig, and were both sentenced to incarceration in a fortress for four years.
Many other arrests, prosecutions, and sentences have taken place both in England and Germany
since then, with the consequence that English travellers in Germany and German travellers in
England, particularly where the travellers are men of military bearing and are in seaside regions,
are now liable, under very small provocation, to a suspicion of being spies. An English lady
recently made the acquaintance of a German in England. He was a very nice man, she said, and
went on to relate how they were talking one day about Ireland. She happened to mention Tipperary.
"Oh, I know Tipperary," the German officer said; "it is in my department." "It was a revelation
to me," the lady concluded when repeating the conversation to her friends. As a matter of fact,
the Intelligence Departments of the army in both Germany and England are well acquainted with
the roads, hills, streams, forts, harbours, and similar details of topography in almost all
countries of the world besides their own.

In regard to 1911 should be recorded the journey of the Crown Prince and Crown Princess to
England to represent the Emperor at the coronation of King George in June; the outbreak in
September of the Turco-Italian War, which placed the Emperor in a dilemma, of which one fork
was his duty to Italy as an ally in the Triplice and the other his platonic friendship with
the Commander of the Faithful; and, lastly, the suspicion of the Emperor's designs that arose
in connexion with the fortification of Flushing at a cost to Holland of some £3,000,000. The
Emperor was supposed to have insisted on the fortification in order to prevent the use of the
Netherlands by Great Britain as a naval base against Germany. Like many another scare in connexion
with foreign policy, the supposition may be regarded only as a product of intelligent journalistic
"combination."

Finally, among subsidiary occurrences, should be mentioned the meeting of the Emperor and the
Czar in July, 1912, at Port Baltic in Finnish waters, accompanied by their Foreign Ministers,
with the official announcement of the stereotyped "harmonious relations" between the two monarchs
that followed; and the premature prolongation, with the object of showing solidarity regarding
the Balkan situation, of the Triple Alliance, which, entered into, as mentioned earlier, in
the year 1882, had already been renewed in 1891, 1896, and 1902. The next renewal should be
in 1925, unless in the meantime an international agreement to which all Great Powers are signatories
should render it superfluous.

