Originally written in Old French, sometime in the early half of the 13th Century A.D., as a
continuation of Chretien DeTroyes' unfinished work "Perceval, or the Knight of the Grail".
Author unknown.

Translation by Sebastian Evans, 1898.

The High History of the Holy Graal

SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY:

ORIGINAL TEXT--

Potvin, Ch. (Ed.): "Perceval le Gallois ou le conte du Graal", Vol. I (Soc. Bibl. Belges.,
Mons., 1866).

RECOMMENDED READING--

Anonymous (Trans. P.M. Matarasso): "The Quest for the Holy Graal" (Penguin Classics, London, 1969).

DeTroyes, Chretien (Trans. William W. Kibler & Carleton W. Carroll): "Arthurian Romances" (Penguin
Classics, London, 1991). Contains the unfinished work "Perceval".

Eschenbach, Wolfram von (Trans. A.T. Hatto): "Parzival" (Penguin Classics, London, 1980).

Malory, Sir Thomas (Ed. Janet Cowen): "Le Morte D'Arthur", Vol. I & II (Penguin Classics, London,
1969). Potvin for 'La Societe des Bibliophiles Belges' in 1866, (1) from the MS. numbered 11,145
in the library of the Dukes of Burgundy at Brussels.  This MS. I find thus described in M.
F. J. Marchal's catalogue of that priceless collection: '"Le Roman de Saint Graal", beginning
"Ores lestoires", in the French language; date, first third of the sixteenth century; with
ornamental capitals.' (2)  Written three centuries later than the original romance, and full
as it is of faults of the scribe, this manuscript is by far the most complete known copy of
the "Book of the Graal" in existence, being defective only in Branch XXI. Titles 8 and 9, the
substance of which is fortunately preserved elsewhere.  Large fragments, however, amounting
in all to nearly one-seventh of the whole, of a copy in handwriting of the thirteenth century,
are preserved in six consecutive leaves and one detached leaf bound up with a number of other
works in a MS. numbered 113 in the City Library at Berne.  The volume is in folio on vellum
closely written in three columns to the page, and the seven leaves follow the last poem contained
in it, entitled "Duremart le Gallois". The manuscript is well known, having been lent to M.
de Sainte Palaye for use in the Monuments of French History issued by the Benedictines of the
Congregation of St Maur.  Selections from the poems it contains are given in Sinner's "Extraits
de Poesie du XIII. Siecle", (3) and it is described, unfortunately without any reference to
these particular leaves, by the same learned librarian in the "Catalogus Codicum MSS. Bibl.
Bernensis", J.R. Sinner. (4)

M. Potvin has carefully collated for his edition all that is preserved of the Romance in this
manuscript, comprising all the beginning of the work as far as Branch III. Title 8, about the
middle, and from Branch XIX. Title 23, near the beginning, to Branch XXX. Title 5, in the middle.
Making allowance for variations of spelling and sundry minor differences of reading, by no
means always in favour of the earlier scribe, the Berne fragments are identical with the corresponding
portions of the Brussels manuscript, and it is therefore safe to assume that the latter is
on the whole an accurate transcript of the entire original Romance.

The only note of time in the book itself is contained in the declaration at the end.  From
this it appears that it was written by order of the Seingnor of Cambrein for Messire Jehan
the Seingnor of Neele.  M. Potvin, without giving any reason for so doing, assumes that this
Lord of Cambrein is none other than the Bishop of Cambrai.  If this assumption be correct,
the person referred to was probably either John of Berhune, who held the see from 1200 till
July 27, 1219, or his successor Godfrey of Fontaines (Conde), who held it till 1237.  To me,
however, it seems more likely that the personage intended was in reality the 'Seingnor' of
Cambrin, the chef-lieu of a canton of the same name, on a small hill overlooking the peat-marshes
of Bethune, albeit I can find no other record of any such landed proprietor's existence.

Be this as it may, the Messire Jehan, Seingnor of Neele, can hardly be other than the John
de Nesle who was present at the battle of Bouvines in 1214, and who in 1225 sold the lordship
of Bruges to Joan of Flanders. (5)  These dates therefore may be regarded as defining that
of the original Romance within fairly narrow limits.

This conclusion is confirmed by other evidence.  An early Welsh translation of the story was
published with an English version and a glossary by the Rev. Robert Williams in the first volume
of his "Selections from the Hengwrt MSS". (6)  The first volume of this work is entitled "Y
Seint Greal, being the adventures of King Arthur's knights of the Round Table, in the quest
of the Holy Grail, and on other occasions.  Originally written about the year 1200".  The volume,
following the manuscript now in the library of W.W.E. Wynne, Esq., at Peniarth, is divided
into two parts.  The first, fol. 1-109 of the manuscript, represents the thirteenth to the
seventeenth book of Sir Thomas Malory's "Morte d'Arthur".  Of the second, which represents
the Romance here translated, Mr Williams writes: "The second portion of the Welsh Greal, folios
110-280, contains the adventures of Gwalchmei Peredur and Lancelot, and of the knights of the
Round Table; but these are not found in the "Morte d'Arthur".  The Peniarth MS. is beautifully
written on vellum, and in perfect preservation, and its date is that of Henry VI., the early
part of the fifteenth century.  The orthography and style of writing agrees literally with
that of the "Mabinogion of the Llyvr Coch Hergest", which is of that date.  This, of course,
is a transcript of an earlier copy; but there is no certainty when it was first translated
into Welsh, though Aneurin Owen in his "Catalogue of the Hengwrt MSS." assigns it to the sixth
year of Henry I.  It is mentioned by Davydd ab Gwilym, who died in 1368."

Whatever may be the date of the Welsh version, the translator had no great mastery of French,
and is often at fault as to the meaning both of words and sentences, and when in a difficulty
is only too apt to cut the knot by omitting the passage bodily.  The book itself, moreover,
is not entire.  On page 275, all between Branch IX. Title 16 and Branch XI. Title 2, twenty-two
chapters in all, is missing.  Again, on page 355, Titles 10-16 in Branch XXI. are left out,
while the whole of the last Branch, containing 28 Titles, is crumpled up into one little chapter,
from which it would seem that the Welshman had read the French, but thought it waste of pains
to translate it.  In all, not to speak of other defects, there are fifty-six whole chapters
in the present book, of which there is not a word in the Welsh.

In one matter, however, Mr Williams' English translation has stood me in good stead.  In Branch
XXI., as I have said, the French manuscript makes default of two Titles, but almost the whole
of their substance is supplied by the Welsh version.  By an unlucky accident, before the hiatus
in the French is fully filled up, the Welsh version itself becomes defective, though the gap
thus left open can hardly extend beyond a very few words. Without this supplement, incomplete
as it is, it would have been impossible to give the full drift of one of the Romancer's best
stories, which is equally unintelligible in both the French and Welsh texts in their present state.

As the Welsh version gives a number of names both of persons and places widely differing from
those in the French, it may be useful here to note the principal changes made.  Perceval in
the Welsh is called Peredur, which is said to mean "steel suit".  The Welshman, however, adds
that the name in French is "Peneffresvo Galief", which, unless it be a misreading or miswriting
for Perceval le Galois, is to me wholly unintelligible.  Perceval's father, Alain li Gros,
is in the Welsh Earl Evrawg, and his sister Dindrane, Danbrann.  King Arthur is Emperor Arthur,
his Queen Guenievre, Gwenhwyvar, and their son Lohot, Lohawt or Llacheu.  Messire Gawain is
Gwalchmei; Chaus, son of Ywain li Aoutres, Gawns, son of Owein Vrych; Messire Kay or Kex is
Kei the Long; Ahuret the Bastard, Anores; Ygerne, wife of Uther Pendragon, Eigyr; Queen Jandree,
Landyr; and King Fisherman for the most part King Peleur.  Of places, Cardoil is Caerlleon
on Usk, Pannenoisance, Penvoisins; Tintagel, Tindagoyl; and Avalon, Avallach.

By a double stroke of ill-luck, the complete and wholly independent Romance here translated
has thus been printed by its two former editors as if it were only a part of some other story.
M. Potvin describes it as the "First Part, the Romance in Prose," of his "Perceval le Gallois",
and Mr Williams accepts it as the "Second Portion" of his "Y Seint Greal".  This unhappy collocation
has led not a few of M. Potvin's readers to neglect his First Part, under the impression that
the story is retold in the other volumes containing the Romance in verse; while not a few of
Mr Williams' readers have neglected his Second Portion under the impression that there could
be nothing of any special importance in an adjunct referred to by the Editor in so perfunctory
a manner.  In very truth, however, the Story of the Holy Graal here told is not only the most
coherent and poetic of all the many versions of the Legend, but is also the first and most
authentic.

This seems to be proved beyond doubt by a passage in the History of Fulke Fitz-Warine, originally
written apparently between the years 1256 and 1264.  The passage occurs at the end of the History,
and is printed in verse of which I give a literal prose translation:

     "Merlin saith that in Britain the Great a Wolf shall come
     from the White Launde.  Twelve sharp teeth shall he have,
     six below and six above.  He shall have so fierce a look
     that he shall chase the Leopard forth of the White Launde,
     so much force shall he have and great virtue.  We now know
     that Merlin said this for Fulke the son of Waryn, for each
     of you ought to understand of a surety how in the time of
     the King Arthur that was called the White Launde which is
     now named the White Town.  For in this country was the
     chapel of S. Austin that was fair, where Kahuz, the son of
     Ywein, dreamed that he carried off the candlestick and that
     he met a man who hurt him with a knife and wounded him in
     the side.  And he, on sleep, cried out so loud that King
     Arthur hath heard him and awakened from sleep.  And when
     Kahuz was awake, he put his hand to his side.  There hath he
     found the knife that had smitten him through.  SO TELLETH US
     THE GRAAL, THE BOOK OF THE HOLY VESSEL.  There the King
     Arthur recovered his bounty and his valour when he had lost
     all his chivalry and his virtue.  From this country issued
     forth the Wolf as saith Merlin the Wise, and the twelve
     sharp teeth have we known by his shield.  He bore a shield
     indented as the heralds have devised.  In the shield are
     twelve teeth of gules and argent.  By the Leopard may be
     known and well understood King John, for he bore in his
     shield the leopards of beaten gold." (7)

The story of Kahuz or Chaus here indicated by the historian is told at length in the opening
chapters of the present work and, so far as is known, nowhere else.  The inference is therefore
unavoidable that we have here "The Graal, the Book of the Holy Vessel" to which the biographer
of Fulke refers.  The use, moreover, of the definite article shows that the writer held this
book to be conclusive authority on the subject.  By the time he retold the story of Fulke,
a whole library of Romances about Perceval and the Holy Graal had been written, with some of
which it is hard to believe that any historian of the time was unacquainted.  He nevertheless
distinguishes this particular story as "The Graal", a way of speaking he would scarce have
adopted had he known of any other "Graals" of equal or nearly equal authority.

Several years later, about 1280, the trouveur Sarrazin also cites "The Graal" ("li Graaus")
in the same manner, in superfluous verification of the then-accepted truism that King Arthur
was at one time Lord of Great Britain.  This appeal to "The Graal" as the authority for a general
belief shows that it was at that time recognised as a well-spring of authentic knowledge; while
the fact that the trouveur was not confounding "The Graal" with the later version of the story
is further shown by his going on presently to speak of "the Romance that Chrestien telleth
so fairly of Perceval the adventures of the Graal." (8)

Perhaps, however, the most striking testimony to the fact that this work is none other than
the original "Book of the Graal" is to be found in the "Chronicle of Helinand", well known
at the time the Romance was written not only as a historian but as a troubadour at one time
in high favour at the court of Philip Augustus, and in later years as one of the most ardent
preachers of the Albigensian Crusade.  The passage, a part of which has been often quoted,
is inserted in the Chronicle under the year 720, and runs in English thus:

     "At this time a certain marvellous vision was revealed by an
     angel to a certain hermit in Britain concerning S. Joseph,
     the decurion who deposed from the cross the Body of Our
     Lord, as well as concerning the paten or dish in the which
     Our Lord supped with His disciples, whereof the history was
     written out by the said hermit and is called "Of the Graal"
     (de Gradali).  Now, a platter, broad and somewhat deep, is
     called in French "gradalis" or "gradale", wherein costly
     meats with their sauce are wont to be set before rich folk
     by degrees ("gradatim") one morsel after another in divers
     orders, and in the vulgar speech it is called "graalz", for
     that it is grateful and acceptable to him that eateth
     therein, as well for that which containeth the victual, for
     that haply it is of silver or other precious material, as
     for the contents thereof, to wit, the manifold courses of
     costly meats.  I have not been able to find this history
     written in Latin, but it is in the possession of certain
     noblemen written in French only, nor, as they say, can it
     easily be found complete.  This, however, I have not
     hitherto been able to obtain from any person so as to read
     it with attention.  As soon as I can do so, I will translate
     into Latin such passages as are more useful and more likely
     to be true." (9)

A comparison of this passage with the Introduction to the present work (10) leaves no doubt
that Helinand here refers to this "Book of the Graal", which cannot therefore be of a later
date than that at which he made this entry in his "Chronicle".  At the same time, the difficulty
he experienced in obtaining even the loan of the volume shows that the work had at that time
been only lately written, as in the course of a few years, copies of a book so widely popular
must have been comparatively common.  The date, therefore, at which Helinand's "Chronicle"
was written determines approximately that of the "Book of the Graal".

